Nagpur: There has been a 271% rise in cases of liquor seizure by Railway Protection Force (RPF) ever since alcohol was banned in Chandrapur district around two-and-half years ago. This, despite the racketeers trying to dodge the police by using women and children for smuggling liquor.

 As per records, there had been around 127% rise in such cases till August 2017 where racketeers had engaged minor boys and girls to illegally transport liquor. Also, 37 women have been nabbed this year for their involvement in such cases.
 
 In 2015, 77 minors were nabbed by RPF in 63 cases where liquor was seized. The records of 2017 underlined that 186 minors were detained for ferrying liquor in 143 cases. This year’s statistics are now likely to surpass that of 2016 (190 minors nabbed in 153 cases).
 
 Jyoti Kumar Satija, senior divisional security commissioner (RPF, Central Railways), said liquor consignments mostly boarded in trains from different stations in Madhya Pradesh were seized while heading to Chandrapur where they are sold in black market.
 
 “Women in jeans and T-shirts carrying trolley bags and trendy purses have been engaged by the racketeers to avoid RPF action, but we are outsmarting them in that too,” said Satija.
 
 He said constant encouragement with fair rewards besides proper guidance have been provided to upgrade the productive index since taking up charge in April 2015. “In order to bring added impetus, RPF Nagpur became the first unit in the country to introduce a tagline ‘duty with passion’ and work under its motivation,” said Satija.
 
 Constable Vikas Sharma, who has been part of most actions under inspector V Wankhede of Nagpur RPF, said woman suspects pose the trickiest challenge as they cannot be identified, questioned or checked easily.
 
 “We take help of our women colleagues. The woman carriers often try to threaten to complain and gain sympathy but we remain firm,” he said. RPF’s biggest haul so far had been of 2,002 liquor bottles worth Rs 1.40 lakh, which were seized after nabbing Sarita Jat and Priti Jat. Constables Santosh Patel and Arjun Patole, who were travelling to Chandrapur after boarding from Madhya Pradesh, provided the tip-off.
 
 Also, there had been almost a three-time increase in the value of liquor seized by RPF since 2015. In 2015, the liquor seized was worth Rs 8.50 lakh which rose to Rs 24.07 lakh till August this year. 
 
 Satija said trains like GT express, Danapur express, Tamil Nadu express, Kerala express and others coming from north India and passing through either Chandrapur and Ballarshah stations are most likely to be used by the racketeers. “The liquor and persons found in possession of the bottles are later handed over to the state excise department for action as we lack power to initiate legal process against them,” he added.
 
 
