NEW DELHI: Though the Election Commission ( ) did not take a decision on the feud within   (SP) over the ‘cycle’ symbol on Friday, reserving its order till Monday, the vehement arguments presented by both sides indicate that the fires within the party are raging fiercely.

 “Even the dead and those in coma have been shown as signatories in the affidavits filed in favour of  ,” was one of the many “lapses” that SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s lawyers cited in their argument.
 
 “‘Held’ has been misspelt as ‘help’, and most affidavits have repeated the mistake, and this reflects the affidavits are nothing but a cut/paste, and forged only to overload the EC with piles of papers to buy time,” said a Mulayam camp lawyer.
 
 The   camp is understood to have submitted affidavits running into over a lakh pages and claiming support of the majority of MPs, MLAs, MLCs and delegates who were said to be present at a convention in Lucknow that declared the Uttar Pradesh CM as SP chief.
 
 Interestingly, Congress member and legal eagle Kapil Sibal represented Akhilesh at a time when his faction is understood to be in talks for an alliance with the party. Rajeev Dhavan also argued for Akhilesh. On the other hand, Mulayam supported his counsel as he argued that he remained party president.
 
 “I have not been removed so how can another president be appointed?” he asked, making no bones about his intent to retain supremacy in the party he founded 25 years ago.
 
 Accompanied by younger brother   — whose removal as the party’s UP chief was demanded by Akhilesh — Mulayam was first to reach the EC office at 12.30pm, after which the Akhilesh camp, represented by Ram Gopal Yadav, arrived along with Rajya Sabha members Naresh Agarwal, Neeraj Shekhar and state minister Abhishek Mishra. Ashu Malik and Sanjay Seth also accompanied Mulayam.
 
 The Akhilesh camp cited precedent, the Election Symbol Order of 1968, and provisions of the Representation of the People Act, including Section 29A, and argued that since the numbers are in favour of the CM, the symbol should go to him. However, represented by senior advocate and former solicitor general Mohan Parasaran, the Mulayam camp said there was “no vertical split in the party”, and insisted the EC lacked jurisdiction to allocate the symbol to one of the groups.
 
 The EC has assured both the camps that a judgement would be delivered at the earliest as the process of filing nominations for the first phase of UP elections will begin on January 17. Moreover, the commission would also require to be ready with parties in contention to launch its own awareness campaign.
 
