NEW DELHI: One key feature of Akhilesh Yadav’s extensive Uttar Pradesh campaign was that he did not mention Muslims or minorities from the dais. He did not refer to castes either. But the go-by to the almost mantra-like invocation of his father,  , was calculated. It was also the reason behind the decision to veto the entry of the infamous   clan into the  .

 In the end, avoiding the Mword did not matter as a counter polarisation of Hindus, upper castes and OBCs powered BJP to an overwhelming win in the state. The Muslim-Yadav combine, the force behind Mulayam for over two decades, seemed to be a trap this around. The “Modi phenomenon” has planted many doubts in the traditional politics of UP where “social justice” outfits have ruled the roost with their “base vote”.
 
 Taking the reins of SP just ahead of assembly polls, Akhilesh apparently put in practice a few lessons he learnt from the Lok Sabha decimation of 2014. As BJP romped the state with 73 seats in a wave set in motion by Modi’s Hindutva-development plank, the SP Gen-Next appeared to have concluded that he needed to soften the identity politics by repositioning the party as an outfit wedded to “development politics”.
 
 Avoiding crass references to identity was part of that plan, put in place after his hastily effected coup against the “old guard”. The Yadav warlord disagreed and continued to push for sticking to the traditional formula, a reason why he backed the merger of Quami Ekta Dal of Ansaris. His belief was that the formula on which SP was founded could not be junked in a huff and any such move, if at all, had to be gradual.
 
 Ironically, that while the outgoing CM softened the politics that proved to be the catalyst for BJP’s Hindutva polarisation, the target constituency was not influenced and repeated its drift to the saffron camp. As it seems now, Akhilesh was damned either way.
 
 BJP’s was a shrewd combine of Mandal and Kamandal as, on evidence, the party appeared to have worked on a solid caste engineering, besides pandering to the shamshan-kabristan sentiments.
 
 Crucially, BSP, desperate to counter SP’s strategy to mobilise Muslims under its banner through an alliance with “secular” leader  , could not exercise caution.
 
 During the campaign, many politicians and observers pointed out that her aggressive wooing of the Muslims was alienating her own “most backward” base. 
 
 Now, with rebuilding their parties as their prime agenda after the electoral carnage, it would be interesting how Akhilesh and   walk the tight rope of wooing minorities while ensuring that it does not cement the reverse polarisation on which BJP is thriving.
 
