The team of '  2: The Black Money Trail' visited   on Thursday, on the last day of their annual cultural festival,  . “We had a long discussion about deciding a college for our film promotion. We unanimously decided that iss hi college mein aana hai,” said  . Actress   also accompanied him, and surprisingly, they reached the college on time. 

  
  Perfect frame: Vidyut clicks selfies with the crowd at Maitreyi College
 
 
 
  
 
 After an interactive session with the students, the actors requested some of them to join them on the stage for some dance moves. Addressing the crowd, Vidyut said, "I did not attend any college, and that is why I was petrified to come to a college, and that too, to a girls' college. But I am proud to be here." Vidyut, who is trained in martial arts, asked the girls if they had seen any of his videos on  . He further said, "Fans ask me about that one thing that I can tell girls whenever I visit a college. I think women have an instinct, which only they have, and that is far superior from the instinct that men have. When a man shakes hands with a woman, or keeps his arm around her, she can tell his intention. Whenever you have this feeling that you don't need to go to a particular place, or that you don't need to hang out with any particular man, please listen to your first instinct, as it is the right instinct."
 
  
  Vidyut, while dancing with the college’s western dance society, Zeal, on the song, 'Hare Ram' (BCCL)
 
 
  
 
 The actors also invited the western dance society of the college, Zeal, on the stage. Charu Nagpal, along with her team members, who danced with Vidyut and Adah, told us, "It felt great dancing with the actors on the stage, and we had lots of fun." Isha Rana, a second-year student of B Com (Hons) at Maitreyi, added, "I liked it what Vidyut said about trusting our instinct."
 
  
  Vidyut also did a back flip as the crowd cheered for him
 
 
 
  
  As the team was leaving, the crowd gathered around their car and Vidyut started clicking selfies. Vidyut said, "I love you guys so much, and I promise, whenever I come to Delhi to promote a movie, this is the college that I will come to." (BCCL)
  
 
 
 
