LUCKNOW: APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University on Thursday   enrolment of as many as 5,250 students who took   to various courses in   2016-17. These enrolments were cancelled following anomalies found in their enrolment forms submitted by the respective  . The university has also identified 13 institutes in which for 37 admissions the supporting documents were found either “tampered” or not meeting minimum eligibility norms. The university has ordered to lodge an FIR against the said candidates for fraudulent activities. 

 According to   registrar Rakesh Verma, show cause notice has been issued to 450 colleges in which these students had enrolled. According to the rules, all colleges had to upload the scanned documents of each student who admitted to their institute for academic session 2016-17 on the university’s online portal. “On verification, we found close to 18,000 suspected cases and despite five reminders to the colleges to produce supporting documents sustaining the enrolment forms, there was no response,” said Verma. 
 
 Post physical verification of documents, 5,250 enrolments were found dubious as they were without supporting documents. A show cause notice was issued to the colleges asking to explain how they went ahead with the admissions without verifying the requisite migration certificate, marksheet of qualifying exam, and most importantly the category certificate needed to avail the scholarship meant for students belonging to Other Backward Class (OBC) and Scheduled Castes (SC). The university will take stringent action, which can even lead to their getting debarred, said officials. 
 
 In 37 individual cases reported in 13 colleges, there were candidates who did not meet minimum eligibility but applied for admissions. More over, they were given admission without any check. Ideally, a candidate seeking admission to engineering course should have 50% marks in class XII, while in the said cases, the marksheets showed an aggregate of 48% or lower, said Verma. 
 
 The colleges involved include Sachdeva Institute, Mathura; DJ Institute, Modinagar; DNS Institute, Ghaziabad; Neelkanth Institute, Meerut; RN Institute, Ghaziabad; Prince Institute, Greater Noida; Ashoka Institute, Varanasi; Global Institute, Kanpur; Institute of Environment, Aligarh; Smt Fulhera Smarak, Balia; Muscat Institute, Bareilly; DNIT Management Institute, Greater Noida; and Narayana College of Engineering and Technology, Kanpur. 
 
 
