GURUGRAM:   has suffered from the lack of a cohesive  , absence of a nodal authority for steering development and its explosive growth outpacing the planning efforts, according to the  .

 Quoting a study, the survey that was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday said after development had begun in the city, multiple layers of local and higher authorities having greater power to extract rents came up and these increased the transaction costs for private builders. 
 
 The study that has found a special mention in the Economic Survey, said, “Different private builders have to seek different political patronage as otherwise none would manage to function.”
 
 It said Gurgaon was mainly an agricultural wasteland and was not categorised as an urban area until 2001. The city saw huge increase in population after the Haryana government removed restrictions on land acquisition process, empowered Huda to convert the agricultural land for developing township and simultaneously granted licences to private developers to develop townships from large parcel of contiguous land.
 
 The report noted the city did not have a municipal body responsible for urban planning and public goods till   was set up in 2008 with control over limited pockets of the city. The three areas of Gurgaon, therefore, are controlled by Huda, MCG and private developers respectively.
 
 Pointing out how the   caused a bigger problem for the city, the report said that “post-growth infrastructure development costs are much higher and at times prohibitive”.
 
 The report said while private players have responded to the failure of the public sector by creating private sewage, water, electricity, security and fire prevention, “but they have been unable to provide services beyond their own property line for want of cooperation amongst builders and the authorities”.
 
 This is the example the Economic Survey referred to while highlighting how urban local bodies face a governance challenge. “Cities do not have a single city government or a local self-government, leading to functional overlap. There is a significant fragmentation of responsibilities and service delivery across a gamut of institutions: the municipality, state departments (police, PWD, health, education, housing), and parastatal agencies or civic agencies reporting directly to the state government.”
 
 On the other hand, Jamshedpur, a private township in Jharkhand, has come up as one of the best managed cities in the country. The study mentioned in the Economic Survey said in the steel city, Jamshedpur Utilities and Services Company ( ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Steel, is responsible for provisioning of the basic services to the city.
 
 
