NEW DELHI: A second   judge has recused himself from hearing a plea filed by Delhi   against a trial court order on grant of memberships, saying that he had applied for membership in the much-sought-after club. 

  Justice   sent back the file on Wednesday saying he couldn't hear the case since he was one of the applicants seeking membership in DGC. 
 
  Last week, Justice   had transferred the case out of his court without assigning any reason. 
 
 "I am an applicant in the non-government category, I can't take up this matter," Justice Nath clarified even as the club management urged him to hear the case, saying it had no objection.
 
 The Gymkhana Club's petition relates to grant of out-of-turn permanent memberships, which was barred by a lower court in November last year. 
 
 During Wednesday's proceedings, the DGC counsel informed the judge that the club had checked its records and found that his application was pending in the "government category". But Justice Nath took a principled stand and made it clear he won't touch the case and sent it back to the registry for listing before another bench next week.
 
 The lower court had ruled that said DGC could not give memberships to children of existing members since the club rules had no provision for such grants.
 
 Following the directive, the club had put on hold all memberships granted since November 30, even as there were fierce protests against the move. The Patiala House court had said it was the duty of a club to follow the doctrine of "fairness" in all its actions, and noted that grant of membership to green card holders UCPs (children of members) violated provisions of DGC's foundational rules -the article of association (AOA).
 
 DGC has argued that the trial court erred in faulting it for granting memberships under these categories since its AoA clearly allowed it to issue memberships under three categories.
 
 Staying DGC's membership drive, the court had noted, "This prestigious club has been conceived to cater to a very selective group of people and even in that group, there is a long waiting list.This has created two classes."
 
 "The ones who have membership became part of an elite group, while others are left waiting. Now, by creating a category of members under green card holders UCPs, meant for dependents of members, another elite class has been created. They have got membership... only because they happen to be the legal heirs of a member," it said.
 
