BHUBANESWAR: India may have been the  , but the presence of   in Parliament is still not 'acceptable'. 

 "We are considered as intruders," said D P Kamat, chairman, Press Advisory Committee, at a familiarisation programme organised for mediapersons by the Lok Sabha Secretariat Bureau of Parliamentary Studies and Training in New Delhi recently.
 
 Kamat's observation came while he was speaking on freedom of media and responsibility of mediapersons. 
 
 Speaking to the TOI later, Kamat admitted the trespasser attitude 'harboured by people in authority' towards the media is a manifestation of the British concept followed still to a large extent in our country. 
 
 "It is certainly not in the interest of democracy. Parliament is the temple of democracy. It is time people in power recognised the rights of the media for healthy functioning of the democratic system of governance the independent India adopted," he remarked.
 
 He said transparency being the hallmark of democratic system of governance cannot be achieved without the right status accorded to the media. "A building cannot stand on three pillars. Media is the fourth pillar of democracy. But many have the notion that governance can continue with just three pillars," he said.
 
 "There was a debate on this issue in the   which felt the media can be used just a communication channel and should not be given the right to access information. This European concept of regulating the media sadly prevails in our country as well," he observed. 
 
 When told that similar practices are followed in assemblies where information is collected not given to the media as a matter of right, Kamat said, "Media has always been seen as a barking dog and people in authority want to keep it at a distance." 
 
 Kamat said the advent of modern technology has vastly improved the information dissemination system, but the right to give information still remains with the people in authority. "The press advisory committee has been in place since 1929. What did not happen in the past will be done now. We will take up the media right issue with the government," Kamat said.
 
 
