AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has initiated an inquiry into an alleged Rs 1,600-crore road construction scam by a company, RP Infraventure, owned by  , brother of minister in the earlier   government,  .
 
  The inquiry was initiated following a complaint by BJP leader from Fatehabad, Ram Raj Singh Rathore, who alleged that Dinesh had secured tenders for road construction works from the PWD in Agra, Mathura, Azamgarh and Jaunpur and the Agra Development Authority (ADA) by misusing his brother's political clout and using "false documents". It is alleged that Dinesh did not fulfill the basic criteria of applying for the tender as he neither had any past experience in such work nor did his company have the required turnover to qualify for the project.
  
  Principal secretary, PWD, Sadakant Shukla, confirmed that an inquiry is underway and indicated that an FIR may be lodged in the case soon.
  
  While Dinesh was not available for comment, his brother Shiv Kumar, speaking on his behalf, said, “The inquiry is political vendetta. All the allegations are baseless and the government is welcome to probe the deal. My brother will be proved innocent, as all the documents are available and show that he is not guilty.”
  
  PWD officials said that Dinesh’s company did not fulfill the tender criteria and should not even have been considered for the tenders. “According to the complaint received by us, and preliminary inquiries, Dinesh had appointed a contractor, Santosh Sharma, owner of a firm named after himself, as a director in RP Infraventure and had used Sharma’s experience in road construction and his company's turnover to fulfill the eligibility criteria,” an official said.
  
  The officials claimed that while Dinesh’s company did not have the requisite experience in road construction, Sharma had completed several projects in the past including the major part of Etawah-Agra bicycle track. Officials added that the turnover of Sharma’s firm was shown as the turnover of RP Infraventure.
  
  Sharma admitted to TOI that his company did not have any joint venture with RP Infraventure, nor did he own any shares in it. While refusing to go into the details of the arrangement, Sharma confirmed that he became a director in Dinesh’s company just a few months prior to the bidding for tenders.
  
  Documents with TOI show that the agreement for the construction of the second phase of Agra Ring Road, from Fatehabad road to Devri road, worth Rs 250 crore, was signed between ADA and RP Infraventure in October 2016.
  
  Project director, district rural development agency, Avdhesh Vajpayee, who is part of a three-member team inquiring into the allotment of tender for this project, said, “The inquiry is underway and a report will be submitted very soon.”
  
  Officials said the other projects allotted to RP Infraventure, worth Rs 1400 crore, that are being inquired into include widening and strengthening work of Agra Bah Kauchauri Ghat road, widening of six lanes from Avantibai Crossing to Agra Gwalior road, widening of Mathura-Deeng (Govardhan) road, widening and strengthening work of Kosi-Nandgaon-Barsana-Govardhan-Sonkh-Mathura road,   road (till  ) and Jaunpur-Azamgarh state road widening. 
 
 All agreements for these works were signed between RP Infraventure and PWD of the districts in December 2016, months before the assembly elections.
