CHENNAI: When a motorist approaches a   in Chennai, chances are that he or she would accelerate when the light turns orange. If the motorist cannot jump the signal, then certainly he or she would cross the ‘stop’ line and take over the zebra crossing, possibly cursing the signal that has just turned red. If directed to take a U-turn half-a-kilometre away, the biker or the motorist may choose to travel in the wrong direction than take a safer passage.

 Such traffic violations are so regular that even traffic police turn a blind eye. Every day, the traffic police file around 6,000 cases and collect fines from violators, but most of these are related to drunken driving and not routine violations mentioned above. A traffic policeman on Old  , where jumping signals is as common a sight as well-dressed software engineers, said he did not even remember when was the last time he booked a motorist for breaking the signal.
 
 To manage the city’s unruly traffic, in which most are wilful offenders, activists have called for deployment of more police personnel and slapping of spot fines. But   disagree. “It will never work out,” a senior officer said. “Such a traffic can be reined in only by introducing gadgets that monitor road users and identify violators.”
 
 The city police have been sanctioned funds by the state home department to install CCTV cameras at important junctions. But violators find a way out. A police officer said the department does not book violators during office hours lest it holds up traffic. “We are not ignoring them. But during peak hours, we have to ensure that traffic remains smooth,” he said.
 
 But such an attitude emboldens violators who then force those complying with the rules to flout them. S Ganapathy, a resident of Dandeeshwaram in Velachery, recollected an incident at the TTK   junction last week. “I had stopped at the signal but other cars jumped the signal. 
 
 Two drivers kept honking and asked me to give way,” he said. “It was around 11pm and the occupants of the cars argued with me for obeying traffic rules at night,” Ganapathy said.
 
 A retired police officer T Aravindan said such reckless attitude results in accident. “Eventually the violator will collide with another vehicle coming from the other side of the road where the signal is open,” he said. “Traffic signals were installed at junctions to ensure smooth flow of vehicles without the assistance of the police personnel. But even then police are needed at every signal to monitor violators,” Aravindan added.
 
 But while the city police is struggling to find officers who would man every signal, in countries like the US, technology is used to identify traffic violators who are then issued tickets along with photo evidence. An officer said the fear of getting caught is enough to prevent a motorist from breaking traffic rules. “If road users feared that someone is watching them, they will refrain from committing the offence,” he said.
 
