Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday said it will pass order on maintainability of a public interest litigation ( ) seeking to disqualify Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K palanisami and four ministers - K A Sengottaian, Sellur K Raju, C Srinivasan and R Kamaraj, for alleged breach of constitutional provisions.

 One T Analagan from Srivilliputur has filed the petition. When it came up for hearing before the division bench headed by justice K K Sasidharan, the petitioner told that the council of ministers is supposed to run the government as per constitutional provisions, but it is acting against the provisions.
 
 On February 22, AIADMK spokesperson in an interview to a private television channel said the state government would be led by advice and command of the party general secretary V K Sasikala, whom the Supreme Court convicted in a wealth case, due to which she is lodged in the Parappana Agrahara Jail in Karnataka. 
 
 To his statement, none of the ministers raised any objection. Besides, the four ministers – Sengottaiyan, Sellur K Raju, Dindigul C Srinivasan and Kamaraj met Sasikala on February 28. After their return, they said that they discussed with her about the functioning of the government. The chief minister did not make any objections to the spokesperson’s statement and the ministers’ calling on Sasikala in jail. Thus, they violated the constitutional provisions, as per which they are not supposed to do so.
 
 Hence, they have to be declared disqualified from their posts and also from as MLAs, regarding which, representations were given to speaker and assembly secretary on March 13 and 16. But, there was no action on it. Hence, it was necessary to issue a direction to the speaker and assembly secretary to forward the representation to the Tamil Nadu governor to conduct an inquiry and to disqualify the chief minister and four ministers, the petitioner said.
 
 The bench asked the petitioner’s counsel, “On what basis, are you levelling such allegations?” The counsel replied, “It got published in newspapers”
 
 To this, the bench replied, “Do you expect the court to take action based on the media report alone?” and said, “The court will pass orders on the maintainability of the PIL on August 1.”
 
 
