IMPHAL: Manipur social welfare minister   is the lone woman MLA from Congress who has managed to win an election without any political lineage. Unlike other women legislators who had the support of their husbands or families, Mirabai, a single woman, made it to the top solely by her own efforts. 

 It is election time again and this time Mirabai is facing a daunting task to retain her   seat in Imphal West. Former MLA Sapam Kunjakishore aka Keba of North East India Development Party (NEIDP), Ch Bijoy aka Thoiba of National People’s Party (NPP), Thounaojam Sarat of CPM and S Premananda Sharma of BJP are contesting from the seat, posing a formidable threat to her. 
 
 Of the four opponents she is facing now, two are formidable ones. Keba had won the Patsoi seat in 2007 and will give her a tough fight and Premananda may emerge as the dark horse. 
 
 However, Mirabai in unfazed. “We will do well in Patsoi as anti-Congress votes have split because of many candidates. I hope to sail through,” she said at her Taubungkhok residence in Patsoi constituency. Mirabai is very close to the Gandhi family and Sonia had chosen her to be a part of the Okram Ibobi Singh ministry in 2012.
 
 Mirabai (53) began her political career as a Congress Seva Dal worker in 1980. By 1990, she became general secretary of State Mahila Congress. In 1996, she became the general secretary of   (MPCC) and its vice-president in 2,000. She has been an AICC member since 1996.
 
 For the AICC headquarters in New Delhi, Mirabai has been the only known woman face of Manipur Congress.
 
 Mirabai said she has taken up many welfare programmes for women in the last five years. “I have started a scheme to provide financial assistance to rape victims to lead a normal life. I also started a widow benefit scheme and launched various vocational training programmes for women so that they can earn a livelihood,” she added. 
 
 Mirabai said she had to struggle much more than her male counterparts to reach this stage. She first won an election in 2012 after experiencing three electoral defeats in 2000, 2002 and 2007 assembly polls. “Sometimes, being a single woman is a disadvantage in society. But I think it gave me more time and courage to take my own decisions,” she added.
 
 The late Rajiv Gandhi first first noticed Mirabai and asked her to learn a course on India’s foreign policy. “As I came from a poor background and my education qualification was also not something to boast of at that time, I distanced myself from Rajivji’s offer. I was sacred to take up a bigger responsibility,” said Mirabai, now a BA LLB. 
 
 When she first went to New Delhi for attending Congress’s training session in the early Eighties, she had just Rs 15 in her possession. “The party had given me the train tickets. But I had only Rs 15 in my pocket as my parents could not afford more than that. I got some money from the party for being an instructor,” she added. 
 
 Her faith in Congress is tremendous and Sonia knows her well as she has never missed any Congress session till date. “I can never think of leaving Congress as it is my life. Some people approached me to join BJP this time, but I flatly rejected them,” said Mirabai.
 
 Though the anti-incumbency factor may work against Mirabai this time, she is confident of winning again. “I have done a lot for Patsoi and its women,” she said. She firmly believes that Congress will come back to power under Ibobi’s leadership. 
 
 
