NEW DELHI: The government will appoint retired judges of district and subordinate  , superannuated IAS/IPS officers and others from Group A central services with legal and administrative background as Nyaya Mitras to handle complaints against the judiciary.

 All grievances received by the Prime Minister’s Office ( ), the law ministry and the public grievances portal of the government against the judiciary — whether related to corruption in courts, delay in delivery of judgments or unfair judgments — will now be forwarded to these Nyaya Mitras to be located in all parts of the country. These officers will report to the department of justice in the law ministry.
 
 At present, the law ministry forwards all such complaints to the   or high courts concerned for action. The judiciary never responds either to the government or to the complainant on action taken, a senior government functionary said. The PMO has received several repeat complaints on non-redressal of grievances.
 
 These reappointed officials will be paid an honorarium of Rs 45,000 per month, including travel expenses, and can serve till the age of 70 years, which may be extended by another two years in special circumstances.
 
 As a pilot, the Nyaya Mitra project will be launched in 27 districts of the northeast and J&K and later replicated across the country. Local Common Service Centres, being set up in each district which will be later linked with all blocks and panchayats as part of the government’s   initiative, will serve as their offices.
 
 These officers will take up each complaint with the judiciary, ascertain its veracity and monitor investigation where allegations prima facie have some truth. All probes will be completed in a timebound manner and a status report will be given to the complainant with a copy marked to the law ministry, sources said.
 
 Last year, the government received around 14,000 complaints related to corruption in the judiciary — almost 50% of them pertaining to delay in delivery of judgments, 15% against alleged corruption in courts and 10% on unfair judgments.
 
 
