Jalalpur (Ambedkarnagar): It’s a perfect example to say that matches are made in heaven. 

 Kalyan Singh, a young man in a small   of Ambedkarnagar, is set to marry Maya. What makes the match special is that Kalyan’s siblings are Mulayam Singh, Rajnath Singh, Giani Zail Singh, Manmohan Singh and Bal Thackeray. He also had a sister, Jayalalithaa, but she died six years ago due to a snake bite. 
 
 His parents, 53-year-old Mithai Lal and his wife Chandrasena, have named all their children after prominent political leaders thinking that the names would usher in good luck for the children from the political bigwigs of the same name. 
 
 Now, the family is elated that Maya, from Khalispur village, is set to become a part of the family. 
 
 “We checked profiles of at least four girls, but none convinced me. The moment Maya appeared before us, we knew she was the one. Maya would fill the void in our family, as none of my kids are named Maya,” said Mithai Lal with a grin.
 
 For Chandrasena, it is like getting a daughter again. “This wedding has infused positive energy in all of us. I am happy to have Maya as my daughter-in-law. She will fill the void that my daughter Jaya’s death created.”
 
 Showering praises on Maya, Lal said, “She is very well-mannered, well-behaved and has been taught values by her parents.” He added that the wedding would be “dowry-free”.
 
 Though the wedding date is yet to be finalised, hectic preparations are on at their residence Ambedkarnagar’s Hyderabad village in Jalalpur tehsil. 
 
 Kalyan’s oldest brother, Mulayam, is 26 years old while the youngest, Bal Thackeray, is eight years old. They leave no opportunity to tease a blushing Kalyan whenever marriage is mentioned. 
 
 The groom-to-be has a bachelors degree and is working as a motor mechanic in his village, nearly 25 km from the district headquarters of Ambedkarnagar. 
 
 “Some functions were scheduled for November and December but everything got delayed owing to demonetization. ‘Tilak’ and ‘barikshaa’ are now in February and the wedding in May,” Lal said.
 
 No one in Lal’s family has a Jan Dhan account and the first few days after demonetisation was implemented were diffcilut for the them. 
 
 “The situation normalised a few weeks later. I had to borrow money from shopkeepers from whom I purchase my ration,” said Lal, confident that he would pay back the money soon. 
 
 
