Guardian minister and senior Shiv Sena leader   is the face of the party in the city for the last few years. A hardcore   who has risen from the grass roots level, Shinde is known to have led the party to victory in past several elections in the district. Ahead of the   polls, TOI talks to Shinde about several civic issues plaguing the city and how the party is all geared up to rout its bête noire and former ally the BJP in the civic elections .

 
 
 
 A: The BJP has shared the power with us in the corporation and they have held the post of deputy mayor and standing committee chairman in the term. Moreover, the strings of the corporation are with the urban development department, a portfolio handed by the chief minister. Also, the commissioner who is the administrator of the corporation is also appointed by the chief minister.
 
 
 
 A: If the civic chief was ever threatened, then he should have registered a police complaint in the first place. It is serious issue that if the head of a civic administration feels threat to his life and calls up the chief minister in the dead of the night how the common citizen can feel protected. Isn’t this a complete failure of the home department? We have always had the highest respect for the administration and the police. In the case of former civic chief T Chandrashekhar, few local leaders had some issues with his style of working, but the Sena always supported him.
 
 
 
 
 A: The Sena has been working towards creating a difference in the city for the last several years by introducing new method of roads like the sustainable Ultra-Thin White Topping and was also the first city to implement the SATIS project in Thane. We have mentioned a variety of smart projects in our poll manifesto for   that will transform the city.
 
 
 
 A: The allegations that we delayed the project is false. In fact we have been always at the forefront demanding the construction of Shai dam be hastened. The water supply system here is improving but we are modifying it further. The results should be visible soon. 
 
 
 
 
 A: All that we have to say is that when the previous government had dismissed the Thane connect to the metro plans saying it wasn’t feasible, we are the ones who fought for it questioning. Whether the government was focused on providing ease of travel to its residents or feasibility. There are lakhs of people who travel from here to Mumbai for work daily and a metro connect will be helpful to them. The NCP is accusing us of hijacking the Retibunder Chowpatty project, but we ask what had stopped the previous government from taking up the project when they were in power.
 
 
 
 A: There seems to be an unholy nexus between the BJP and NCP here that is probably working overtime to keep us out of power. The parties here are now targeting the Sena because they feel nervous of our winning possibility. They seem to have no agendas for development so they are busy hurling allegations at us. 
 
 
 
 A: There has been several memes doing the rounds online targeting the Shiv Sena and we have now registered our complaint with the relevant authority and are expecting somee action. 
 
 
 
 A: We have devised our strategies to be focused on an inclusive development one. We are looking at all segments including the women welfare, career development and guidance for the youth. 
 
 
