NAGPUR : Flaying the   for failure to stop   that led to his suicide, the Nagpur bench of   rejected his anticipatory bail plea.

 A single judge bench comprising justice Sunil Shukre stated that if released, there would be every possibility that he would influence the minds of tender pupils, who’re witnesses in the case.
 
 The judge pointed out that the deceased boy used to be subjected to harassment by his schoolmates and even his teachers, including petitioner —  , headmaster of the school, used to join them allegedly.
 
 Prior to 15 days of death, his parents brought to the principal’s   that their son was being made to undergo on account of dark sarcasm indulged in by his schoolmates and teachers. “At that time the petitioner granted assurance to the parents that those things wouldn’t be repeated. But, it appears that the assurance only turned out to be a hollow promise, as the harassment went on unabated. Instead of taking action against his schoolmates, the principal beaten up the deceased boy,” the judge tersely observed.
 
 Even the deceased’s parents termed it as a case of extreme harassment, that pushed him to a desperate state. According to them, he used to tell his classteachers as well as principal about the unbearable teasing he was subjected to by his schoolmates. But, instead of scolding and taking steps for restraining them, these teachers, including the petitioner used to subject the boy to beating.
 
 After the boy took extreme step, an offence was registered against him at Asegaon (Purna) Police Station, coming under Achalpur town of Amravati, under Sections 305 read with Section 34 of the IPC.
 
 The petitioner had moved to the court contending that he should be granted protection, as his name was not mentioned in the suicide note written by the boy before committing suicide.
 
 “In these circumstances, it appears that the deceased boy thought that there was no other alternative than to take the extreme step. There is thus sufficient prima facie material available against this applicant. The offence being of serious nature would require a detailed investigation into it. In the result, this application deserves to be rejected,” justice Shukre held.
 
 Earlier on April 24, the court granted him interim protection after he argued that police had already recorded his detailed statement by twice calling him to the police station, where he was interrogated in detail. He was however told to furnish a PR Bond of Rs25,000 with a solvent surety of like amount. He was also told to attend the police station as and when required, cooperate with the police in the investigation and not to tamper with the prosecution evidence in any manner.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
