AMRITSAR: Sikh high priests on Sunday held Punjab rural development and panchayat minister   guilty of religious misconduct. Maluka appeared before the five Sikh high priests at the Akal Takht secretariat, where he apologized for blasphemy after which Akal Takht jathedar   asked him to atone for the misconduct.

 Maluka was embroiled in a controversy following imitation of Sikh ardas at the conclusion of a path during the inauguration of his election office at Rampura Phul. After protests by various Sikh bodies, Shi romani   (SGPC) had constituted a three-member committee to investigate the allegations. “SGPC submitted its report at the Akal Takht on January 1 which became the basis for the pronouncement,“ Gurbachan Singh told TOI.
 
 He said Maluka had hurt Sikh religious feelings by allowing Sikh ardas to be tampered with in his presence.
 
 The Sikh high priests have told Maluka to hold Akhand Path in the Golden Temple complex, clean shoes and utensils for one hour for three days and listen to Gurbani for one hour.He has been also told to donate Rs 51,000 at the Akal Takht and perform sewa at the langar for one day at Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo and donate Rs 31,000 there. After the punishment, the cabinet minister will have to offer a `degh' of Rs 500 and offer prayers for forgiveness at the Akal Takht.
 
 Sarbat Khalsa appointed Sikh high priests had also summoned Maluka to appear before them at the Akal Takht on January 9.
 
 In another case Sikh high priests have constituted a five-member committee comprising of SGPC secretary Dr Roop Singh, SGPC's Dharam Prachar committee additional secretary Harbhajan Singh Manawan, Inderjit Singh Gagoani, Partap Singh and   to investigate the content of books written by historian Harjinder Singh Dilgeer. Gurbachan Singh said the Akal Takht secretariat has received reports that books of Dilgeer had some objectionable content about Sikh history. He said the committee had been directed to submit a report by February 7.
 
