GURUGRAM: Two days after the abduction and robbery of eight labourers — two of whom were women who were   raped — within a poultry farm in Mandpura village near Pataudi, Gurgaon police is still searching for possible suspects behind the incident. According to Pataudi ACP Tanya Singh, the Pataudi incident bore uncanny resemblance to earlier incidents — one in Greater Noida’s Rabupura and two others on the   in Tappal, close to Aligarh, because of which, they are now collaborating with Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi police. 

 Of the two incidents on Yamuna Expressway, one happened in January, when armed assailants entered a bus and robbed people. However, reports of gangrape were denied at the time. Earlier, on November 2, 2016, two of three women were gangraped in their homes situated near a brick kiln in Rabupura in  . The three women, who were sleeping with their husbands, were woken up by a gang of men posing as police at around 1am. The husbands were tied up near the house, while the armed assailants took turns to rape the women, one of whom pleaded with the men that she was pregnant and was spared.
 
 The fate of the Pataudi women was far worse. On the night of January 28, eight armed men entered the poultry farm, adjacent to a cast iron foundry in Mandpura near Pataudi. They took turns to rape the two women, while the six men — including husbands of the two women — who worked in the factory and were sleeping there, were locked up in the next room.
 
 The medical investigation conducted following the incident revealed both gangraped women were pregnant at the time. The women, aged 19 and 20, are reportedly 3 and 5 months pregnant respectively. A FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) team has now been involved to assist in the medical investigation.
 
 Police said the gang has been at large for quite some time now. “It’s been a while since the incidents in UP took place. With the coordination between various police forces, we’re hoping to succeed in catching them this time,” she said, speaking to TOI.
 
 The Pataudi police station SHO said 10-12 teams are on the lookout for the criminals, who remain at large. They are trying to connect the incident with another robbery which took place in Mandpura the same night, in which a man was robbed of Rs 1,000 and locked up in a room next to his tubewell, which he was guarding at night. The man managed to flee. But neither he nor the eight victims of the incident at the farm have been able to provide concrete clues which could help identify the accused.
 
 According to their testimonies, the gang appeared to be fearless. During the 3-4 hours they were at the farm, they reportedly slaughtered, cooked and ate chicken belonging to the farm. “During interrogation, the victims couldn’t identify the accents used by their assailants. The problem is, the victims are not locals, and are new to the place,” said Singh. The assailants were also wearing monkey caps the entire time, reducing the scope of identifying them by face.
 
 The incident has raised serious questions about the state of security in villages on the outskirts of Gurgaon, where surveillance and patrolling is negligible. “We have limited resources and personnel to cover these areas at night. Winter fog has also increased travel time, making it impossible to visit all villages around Pataudi, as these are isolated and in far-flung areas,” she said, adding a checkpost has been set up in Mandpura and cops are now present round-the-clock. The process of setting up a police chowki in the village, held up for quite some time, is also being speeded up.
 
 
