Ludhiana: The second phase of work under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transmission (AMRUT) to construct water reservoirs is going to be delayed further as the civic officials have now been advised to change the original plan.

 The officials have been told to check the feasibility whether underground reservoirs would be more beneficial than overhead water reservoirs. Consequently, now the scope of work along with detailed project report will be revised.
 
 Earlier, due to technical approvals and the lack of interest shown by the companies in the work has delayed the project. The technical advisor to chief minister Lt Gen B S Dhaliwal (retd) after going through the project report has advised the same to the MC officials.
 
 The suggestion has been given keeping in view the condition of previous overhead water tanks which come in use for supplying water to the residents. Moreover, supplying water through overhead reservoirs affects life of tubewells.
 
 Under this phase, the officials are going to construct new water tanks at various locations for storage of water supply. The total cost of the second phase was Rs 22 crore and 27 new water tanks are supposed to be constructed.
 
 There are 56 overhead water tanks in the city, but only a few water tanks are in use while some are in dilapidated condition and a few are in need of repair.
 
 Recently, the officials had even floated the tenders for these works and two companies had participated in the tender procedure, but at that time there was an issue of technical qualification. And then the officials have been told to divide works in small groups so that more companies could participate and work should complete at a fast pace. Now the entire DPR will be revised and it can even increase the cost of this work.
 
 Requesting anonymity, one of the MC officials claimed that in Mohali, underground water tank has been constructed and on that pattern even they have been suggested to construct the underground water tanks in the second phase of works under AMRUT. He said they would now write to the consultant company to submit the revised DPR so that they could begin the work.
 
 
