RANCHI:  , the venue for the global investors' summit, has turned into a garrison with police and paramilitary forces having taken charge of providing a “fool-proof” security cover to the mega event that is being touted as one to change the fate of the state. Entry was restricted and every visitor into the venue was being frisked on Wednesday. 

 Heavy security was deployed throughout the city, especially on the route from   to the summit venue in Hotwar. Traffic was smoother than usual on the   and other thoroughfares as police worked overtime to ensure smooth passage for the guests and delegates. 
 
 For the security of the delegates, Quick Response Teams (QRT) have been stationed outside the venue while 30 police teams were posted across the city. As many as eight motorbike police teams patrolled the city while senior cops kept a watch on the city through 93 CCTV cameras have been installed at various spots. The city has wrapped under a security blanket comprising 4,000 police officials and jawans, four teams of  , two ATS units, four dog squads and 500 home guards. 
 
 At Khelgaon five gates have been set up for the entry of VIPs and other visitors. Each of these gates have been equipped with teams of heavily-armed police and paramilitary personnel led by senior cops. Secretary of industries department, Sunil Barnwal had said on Tuesday that more than 11,029 delegates from across the world have registered for the event. 
 
 “The security mechanism has been designed keeping in keeping in mind the threat-perception and sensitivity of the event and the high-profile visitors who have starting arriving at the city,” said a senior state police official. 
 
 The city looked like a citadel on Wednesday as additional police and paramilitary forces and officials called from all corners of the state were posted at major traffic intersections and security hotspots across the city. 
 
 Security has been beefed up at all the top hotels of the city which are hosting the delegates. Officials of the special branch along with junior cops have been stationed at each of the hotels.
 
