MYSURU: Where to park? This is the first question asked by all the motorists who are arriving in the city to join the ongoing   celebrations. Last week, the Mysuru City Corporation(MCC) cleared the Town Hall premises to make space for the motorists to park their vehicles while the Mysuru Palace Board designated space at Balarama Gate for parking. But the issue of parking is pinching hard both Mysureans and the tourists, who don’t have space to park their vehicles in the city centre. The under-construction parking lot is hanging fire for five years, the authorities are not serious to tackle the issue. Meanwhile, mayor M J Ravikumar assured of allowing parking inside the under construction underground parking lot within a couple of days as a solution to the problem.

 According to both tourists and locals, since Thursday, parking woes have hit the motorists hard with the increased inflow of vehicles inside the city. "Traffic police are not allowing us to park vehicles on any of the main roads. Even the lodge, where we have booked rooms, has no parking facility. So we are forced to park the vehicle near a park two kilometers from the city center," said Ram Kumar, a visitor from Bengaluru. Ram Kumar has arrived with his family to witness the Dasara celebrations.
 
 One of the major problems faced by the tourists is due to the nonavailability of dedicated parking lot in any of the major exhibition areas, they are forced to walk for kilometers or cancel their plans. "Book exhibition area has been set up very next to the main road. There is no space to park the vehicle. As a result, many people are avoiding the book exhibition center. Tourists are facing similar problem near flower show area also," said Ravindra Pai, another visitor.
 
 "Only the food Dasara exhibition area has been provided with a dedicated parking lot. But it is also in a very distant place," he said.
 
 Along with tourists, even the locals are also facing the heat of parking issue as traffic police are not allowing any kind of parking on main or parallel roads. "Till last week, we were allowed to park our vehicles on the parallel roads where there is no congestion. But now whole   (CBD) especially areas around the palace and city bus stand are notified as no parking zone. Every year we face this problem at the time of Dasara," says Mahesh Nayak, a trader from Devaraj Urs market.
 
 Meanwhile, MCC has decided to open up the under construction underground parking lot on 
  as the solution to the parking woes of the tourists. Speaking to Times of India, mayor M J Ravikumar informed that MCC will allow the parking inside the underground parking lot in next couple of days. "This can accommodate more than 800 vehicles," he said.
 
