THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   minister   told the assembly on Wednesday that   (KWA) will provide 10 lakh new connections over the next five years. 

 Concluding the discussion on demands for grants in the budget for water supply, sanitation and irrigation, the minister said the new government was able to provide 1.47 lakh new connections after assuming office.
 
 The minister added that the department had identified 30 locations for constructing bridge-cum-regulators, across various rivers, at an estimated cost of Rs 600 crore. "Now, we need to prepare designs, besides conducting studies to assess environmental impact," he said. On the state's prospects of establishing desalination plants to tackle drought, which was raised by several members during the discussion, the minister said such plants weren't feasible compared to the option of treating surface water. "A desalination plant with a capacity of purifying one million litres would cost Rs 10 crore against Rs 50 lakh required for a surface water treatment plant. The operation cost of desalination plants will be very high," he said.
 
 However, Thomas said the government will examine the option in future with an open mind to tackle severe drought. Citing a decrease in allocation (nearly one-third) for the state from the national rural drinking water programme (NRDWP), the minister said the department has to depend on possible allocations from   (KIIFB) for implementation of various projects.
 
 "We received administrative sanction for works worth Rs 1,257 crore from KIIFB, besides an additional Rs 433 crore for works that are in the process of being approved. A financial assistance of Rs 89.5 crore is expected from Nabard for seven drinking water schemes (covering 14 panchayats) that have been approved by the government" he added. The state has 251 panchayats and 13 municipalities that do not have water treatment plants, he said, adding that the department this year initiated 42 new projects to cover 72 panchayats and four municipalities. "We commissioned 17 new drinking water schemes last fiscal. There has also been a 14% increase in the department's revenue in 2016-17 from last fiscal," he said.
 
