NASHIK: Performances by seasoned Tabla exponents made both sessions on the concluding day of Tabla Chilla event memorable for the Tabla lovers and music connoisseurs on Sunday. The two-day Tabla Chilla event concluded with presentations by veteran Pt Bapusaheb Patwardhan from Mumbai. 

 “Apart from Pt Patwardhan, Pt Onkar Gulwadi from Mumbai, young exponent Devavrat Gupta from Kolkota, and Nashik-based Atharva Ware performed in the second session. The elaborated performances by all four made the session enthralling for more than 300 music-lovers who were present at the Kusumagraj memorial,” said organizing committee member Prof Makarand Hingane. 
 
 Earlier to this, Pt Najmuddin Javed from Hyderabad, Pt Anand Badamikar from Solapur, Aamod Dandage from Kolhapur and Vinayak Hasabnis from Sangli performed in the first session which continued for more than 5 hours on Sunday morning.
 
 The   is to have a marathon recital of Tabla for 9 hours a day at a stretch. The event started in Nashik from 2014. This concept was introduced by Adi Tal Tabla academy as part of the 75th birthday celebration of three iconic tabla players of Nashik – Kamlakar Ware, Nana Mule and Narayan Joshi. 
 
 “This event is becoming popular on National level as it relates with the old school Tabla. Many tabla exponents trained in Gharana style are eager to participate in Tabla Chilla. From next year, we are committed to make this even bigger,” said organiser Nitin Ware. 
 
 The event is very important for young Tabla exponents as they get to see the seasoned people performing on stage for longer time. “There is no time limit for the performer in Chilla event. They take their own time and present the most treasured and rehearsed Taals during this event. It’s a learning experience for all of us budding tabla players,” said  , disciple of Pt Jayant Naik who performed earlier on Saturday. 
 
 Apart from Shaunak, his fellow student Nitin Gholap, and Pune-based young Tabla exponent Soham Gorane also performed on Saturday. Percussionist Nana Mule was accorded a grand felicitation on the occasion on getting Government of Maharashtra’s ‘Taal Sadhak’ award.
 
