New Delhi: India has defended its move to block the agenda for meeting of   General Council, the top decision-making body of the Geneva-based agency, arguing that some countries have sought to “suddenly” put a bilateral issue of investment and investment facilitation for talks in the multilateral forum. “It was never part of the discussion. It was always part of the bilateral discussion and we want it that way. We will hold firm on it,” commerce & industry minister   told TOI.

 While the issue was listed on the agenda for WTO’s General Council meeting on May 10, it was put on hold after India objected to the inclusion of investment and investment facilitation on the agenda list. Countries such as China, Brazil, Russia, South Korea and Mexico pushed for talks on investment facilitation after India sought to seek a dialogue on a global agreement on trade facilitation in services, meant to ensure that there was easier movement of software and other professionals, a key area of interest for New Delhi.
 
 For long, some of the countries have sought the inclusion of investment in the WTO work programme but India has steadfastly opposed and Sitharaman said the government would remain firm in its stand.
 
 A source at WTO told TOI, “One member could not accept the adoption of the agenda, so the meeting has been suspended. It is not clear what happens next. The (WTO) DG ( ) and Xavier Carim, the chairman of the General Council, are holding intensive consultations in a bid to find a mutually agreeable solution.” The government is worried that an agreement on investment facilitation would restrict its flexibility on deciding inflows from other countries. India currently offers post-investment national treatment, which ensures that foreign companies are treated on a par with Indian counterparts once they are in the country.
 
 An Indian officer, who did not wish to be quoted, said countries including Uganda, Bolivia and Ecuador are supporting India’s stand.
 
 Chile, India to expand trade pactMeanwhile, textiles and chemicals would get greater market access in Chile as the expanded preferential trade agreement with the South American nation kicks in from Tuesday. Under this expanded PTA, both the countries have offered to lower or eliminate duties on a number of items with Chile offering concessions on 1,798 goods such as agri items, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, plastics, textiles, apparel, iron & steel items, copper machinery, compared to 178 items earlier. India has offered concessions on 1,031 products.
 
 
