The film industry works with unions and set norms to ensure that technicians have their rights intact. Every now and then, though, there are a few hiccups.
The latest is in the Kannada film art directors’ association, where actor-art director  , who won a State Award for his work as an art director in Last Bus, was allegedly promised an official card to work as an art director after his win. 
 The association, however, has allegedly not honoured this when it was brought to notice that Avinash had worked as an art director, while his official card allows him to work as an assistant art director. Incidentally, Avinash worked in the capacity of an art director in his own home production — a decision that technically does not come under the purview of the association. Avinash, though, has nearly two decades of experience in the art department for ads and on-ground events, which further fuels the debate on his ‘qualification’. 
 On behalf of the art directors’ association,  , the current president, says that according to procedures followed by the association — an individual can progress to becoming an art director only after working as an assistant in the department for around four years. As for Avinash, Arun says, he is welcome to work as an assistant art director for a few more films, before he is given the art directors’ card. 
 While this is an ongoing case, Bangalore Times takes a look at some other similar cases concerning the ‘association card’:
 Ring Road Suma versus makeup artistes’ association
 The all-women’s technicians’ team faced a glitch when it came to the makeup head credit for the film. According to the then procedure, the association did not issue ‘head cards’ to women. Eventually, the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce gave the team a go-ahead citing this as a special case.
  versus the makeup artistes’ association
 Tollywood star Anushka Shetty’s makeup artiste, Charu Khurana, too faced a similar issue because of her gender. She had to take the legal route before she eventually got an official card that allowed her to work. Her case is cited as a landmark victory for breaking the glass ceiling in the film industry.
 Mayuri Upadhya versus choreographers’ association
 Noted contemporary dancer-choreographer Mayuri Upadhya has occasionally choreographed special numbers in Sandalwood. She recently choreographed dance sequences for the   film Mirzya. In spite of her years of experience as a choreographer, when she allegedly approached the choreographers’ association for a card that allows her to work in the Kannada film industry, she was asked to start as a beginner. 
 Mangala Srinivasan and Ramya versus the makeup artistes’ association
 A decade ago, makeup artiste Mangala Srinivasan, known for her work in fashion shoots, was employed by Sandalwood star Ramya for a film. But, the makeup artistes’ union opposed Mangala from working in the film industry and even managed to stop an ongoing shoot schedule in protest, all because she didn’t have a card. 
 
 
