CHANDIGARH: A 60-year-old woman from Maloya has become the second person in the city to die after contracting  , even as confirmed cases have risen to 8, including three senior doctors from  .

 The woman, who was first referred to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where she was admitted for some time, died at   and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Tuesday. The first victim was Sham Verma, 42, a resident of Sector 37. He had died at PGI on July 20. The patient had a travel history to Mukerian and   and was on ventilator since the first day of his admission.
 
 Regarding the second fatality, Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, anti-malaria nodal officer, UT health department, “The patient was diabetic and due to this co-morbidity died after contraction of the flu.” “She was critical and sent to GMCH on Tuesday, where she was confirmed for flu,” he added.
 
 The three PGI doctors who have tested positive are from departments of nephrology, psychiatry and paediatric medicine. One of the doctors contracted the flu while tending to her five-year-old baby who got infected with H1N1. “All these doctors are in the isolation ward and will remain there for next five days or until the symptoms persist,” said a faculty member at PGI. The faculty added, “Tamiflu has its side effects, so we do not recommend it to all. Wearing a mask is preferable.”
 
 Those who were tested positive for the flu included a 49-year-old patient who had been admitted to GMCH for treatment. Another patient is a six-month-old girl and a resident of Sector 35. Two days back, a 32- year-old woman from Ambala was also tested positive for the flu and has been admitted to Government Multi-specialty Hospital. However, these patients are stable, according to the UT health department.
 
 “There are patients coming with flu-like symptoms these days. There is no need to panic as the virus is self-limiting and with sufficient rest and fluid intake, it can be over in few days. However, if there is a complication, one must report to the doctor,” said a doctor at PGI.
 
