Mumbai: The   ( ) on Monday held that a petition filed against   by two of its minority shareholders — family firms of its ousted chairman   — was not maintainable under provisions of the Companies Act that requires them to have at least one-tenth of issued shares. The petition alleged mismanagement by the $103-billion conglomerate and oppression of their rights as minority shareholders. 

 But the tribunal will on Tuesday hear a plea filed by the Mistry camp for a waiver of eligibility of the conditions under the act, which the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ( ) is empowered to grant. Thus, it is not the end of a legal battle for the Mistry side. Cyrus Investments and  , the two Mistry family companies, had last December approached the tribunal against Tata Sons,  , other directors and trustees. They had moved the tribunal for various reliefs, including to prevent Mistry’s removal as director of Tata Sons. 
 
 “The petitioners have failed to satisfy that the petition is maintainable. We will now hear matter regarding waiver,” said the NCLT bench headed by B S V Prakash Kumar in a short order mentioning only the operative part. The tribunal’s decision on the preliminary issue of maintainability of petitions filed by Mistry companies has to be followed by a decision on whether it will now grant waiver before it can deal with merits of the case.
 
 Later in the evening, in a 42-page order, Kumar and V Nallasenapathy started out by saying that, “Tata is a household name in India.” It added, “From salt to software, it has seasoned this country with all spheres...”, almost lamenting that “these days, trying times have come for Tata”. But pointing out how “it waded through British India regime to be successfully in sovereign India”, the bench said, “We believe that none of the persons in this story has any dislike or disrespect to this untiring provider.”
 
 While Mistry was not the petitioner, Tata Sons’ said the two petitioning companies — which are shareholders of Tata Sons — are his “alter ego”. Mistry was removed as director of Tata Sons on February 6 at a shareholders’ meeting after his side failed to get a stay on it from the tribunal and its appellate body in Delhi, the NCLAT. While refusing a stay in January, the NCLAT had directed the Mumbai tribunal to first decide on maintainability and then on a plea for a waiver, before getting into merits.
 
 The eligibility provision under section 244 of the Companies Act was the bone of contention. It provides that minority members, who can seek relief against alleged oppression and mismanagement before the tribunal, are only “those who have not less than one-tenth of the issued share capital of the company”. The Mistry camp said it had over 18% equity shares and, hence, was eligible to file the petition. It said the NCLT ought to give a “purposive interpretation” to the provision. Their counsels C A Sundaram and Janak Dwarkadas said that the company law amended in 2013 stipulated relief for different “class of shareholders” and that equity shareholders were a distinguishable class.
 
 But going by earlier rulings by the Supreme Court, the Tata camp — represented by A M Singhvi, Ravi Kadam, Mohan Parasaran and S N Mukherjea — said that “issued shares include both equity and preference share”, and that when the law was clearly worded, not ambiguous, its “plain meaning” would apply, not purposive or any other interpretation. The plain meaning is that the Mistry companies’ 18% equity, in effect, constitutes only 2.17% of issued share capital and, hence, was not eligible to file a petition alleging oppression of their minority rights, said Singhvi.
 
 The NCLT in its 42-page order accepted Singhvi’s arguments and said that, “When language of a section is clear, there is no need to apply doctrine of purposive interpretation, to inflect…The only precedent applicable is the one that says issued share capital means equity plus preference”.
 
 It said, “The petitioners are under a misconception that the word ‘member’ relates to members holding equity only, had it been so, the legislature would have clarified it in the section itself.” After comparing the old and new provisions under the company law, it dismissed Sundaram’s argument that “issued share capital” means “issued equity share capital” holding that the qualifying section in the new act has unchanged wordings. 
 
 The NCLT said, “a ‘class of members’ in the mismanagement clause is “inconsequential to the qualification under section 244. It only means that a member can fight for the cause of a class of members if there is mismanagement qua such ‘class’.”
 
 It “differed” with the Mistry team counsel who had said that the waiver clause in the act made the minimum 10% eligibility clause “directory”, “not mandatory”. The order said, “It has become stronger.”
 
 The Mistry camp had argued that it could not have been intended by the legislature that equity shareholders should be deprived from approaching court for remedy against oppression just because of a wider meaning to include both equity and preference share, in issued share capital. But Singhvi had, in turn, said the Mistry plea of a “separate class of Shareholders” would lead to rewriting the law, which the NCLT was not empowered to do.
 
 The NCLT, by holding that the Mistry camp did not satisfy it on why they should be considered eligible, has accepted Singhvi’s exhaustive submissions.
 
 
