BICHOLIM: Tucked away in northern Goa, the Bicholim constituency is faced with a peculiar situation this election. Most of its major players this time are the same candidates who contested the 2012 polls; except that they all now don different avatars. 

 Five years ago, sitting   had entered the fray as an independent candidate after being denied a Congress ticket. The grand old party had chosen  , a former   (BJP) legislator, to represent it instead. Following Patnekar’s jump to the Congress, the BJP went on to nominate Manohar Shirodkar. 
 
 Cut to the run-up to the 2017 polls and the roles of these three men have changed dramatically. Patnekar, who returned to the BJP fold two years ago, is now its candidate. Shirodkar, on the other hand, has been awarded a Congress ticket. And Sawal has shed his independent tag and joined the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP).
 
 Two more candidates have thrown their hats in the ring this time around; Sainath Patekar of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and former local MLA and transport minister Pandurang Raut, who will contest on the Goa Praja Party (GPP) ticket. 
 
 Nevertheless, the tussle for the Bicholim seat will likely be between Sawal and Patnekar, poll observers say. 
 
 Apart from having the support of rebel RSS chief, Subhash Velingkar, and his band of karyakartas, Sawal has also been prominent as an opposition member in the legislative assembly, what with him having raised several niggling issues and putting the government on the mat. He even mustered the courage to bring up issues against then chief minister,  , sources point out. For instance, Sawal didn’t mince words when he claimed that proposals submitted by him for the development of the Bicholim constituency were being sidelined. Some say the situation began to look up for him only after Laxmikant Parsekar took over the reins of the state administration.
 
 Just a few months before the election date was announced, Sawal managed to get a temple beautified, lay a walking track at Bicholim and spruce up the bandharas that lie between the two bridges on River Bicholim. These have now gained popularity as venues for socio-cultural programmes. 
 
 It was a sympathy wave that helped Sawal win the Bicholim seat in 2012. Villagers say he worked hard for the Congress, but apparently didn’t fit into Vishwajit Rane’s scheme of things (Rane was given charge of Bicholim and four other constituencies during the 2012 polls) and was ultimately denied a ticket. Five years on, Sawal has not only been able to hold on to the reputation he built then, but has also bolstered it with his fearless stand on issuesparticularly those affecting his constituencyduring assembly sessions. 
 
 Despite his industriousness, water scarcity continues to be a problem in the constituency. The worst affected are those who live at high altitudes and do not get access to the precious resource, even during the monsoon, due to low pressure. And, like most other towns, Bicholim is also afflicted by parking problems.
 
 “Sawal won the hearts of his constituents. But, things are gradually changing as the BJP began ground work very early on. After all, it is the ruling party,” a villager explains. Sources say the BJP’s campaign managers are using all available resources to woo Bicholim’s electorate, and that Sawalwho now pledges allegiance to the MGP-GSM-Shiv Sena combineis beginning to lose the lead he had maintained over his rivals in the run-up to the elections. 
 
 Another setback for the sitting MLA is the fact that some of his key workers have now joined hands with Patnekar. In the Mulgao panchayat, for instance, all the panchaswith the exception of sarpanch Santosh Sarafhave turned against Sawal to support Patnekar. The BJP candidate also seems to be making inroads into the Bicholim Municipal Council and areas under its purview, as well as in the hinterlands after former zilla panchayat member, Shilpa Naik, joined his campaign.
 
 Yet, Sawal is banking on the people of Latambarcem and Mencurem to see him through. That he is a resident of Mencurem, helps his cause. The incumbent legislator also has the support of the present ZP member, Sanjay Shetye. The verdict is likely to be divided in Ladfe and Goa’s section of Dodamarg, however.
 
 As the Congress candidate for Bicholim, Manohar Shirodkar has the backing of GPCC president Luizinho Faleiro, as well as Poriem and Valpoi legislators, Pratapsingh and Vishwajit Rane. He has pockets of support across the constituency, with Muslimwada being his stronghold, sources say, adding that he is likely to fare well in the upcoming polls because of ‘silent’ Congress supporters in the constituency.
 
 GPP’s Pandurang Raut, on the other hand, is relying on his performance as MLA and minister in the ’90s, a time when Bicholim got a bypass, a KTC bus stand and a full-fledged market among other things, to its name. His current campaign, though, is yet to pick up steam. Observers say Raut has been working particularly hard in various panchayat areas. 
 
 Sainath Patekar, the AAP candidate, is a resident of Assonora with negligible reach in Bicholim’s municipal area. Nonetheless, poll watchers say that the party’s workers are trying hard to make AAP’s presence felt throughout the constituency.
 
 
