Mumbai:   is betting big on what it calls the experience cloud, a new integrated solution to build campaigns and manage advertising and one which puts the digital experience at the heart of its product strategy.

 “The experience cloud is the largest growth opportunity right now, targeting the enterprise customer, whether it is the chief revenue officer or the chief digital officer. It’s an opportunity to spread our vision beyond just the marketing function in the enterprise,” Adobe CEO   said in Mumbai on Wednesday.
 
 Narayen believes that enterprises should make `experience’ their business. “If you look at what has happened in the automotive industry with players like Uber, or in hospitality with Airbnb, every company is being disrupted, and making `experience’ your business is going to be absolutely critical,” he said.
 
 The experience cloud comprises of marketing, advertising and analytics clouds and leverages Adobe’s machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities called Sensei. The maker of some of the world’s biggest software products – Acrobat, Illustrator, InDesign – processes 100 trillion transactions a year, making it a big data company itself. And that enables great analytics opportunities. “Analytics is going to be the fabric of every organization,” Narayen said.
 Narayen has been having an incredible run with Adobe’s decision to move aggressively to a cloud-based, pay-as-you-go model. The $6-billion company's share price has been consistently moving up since 2011, and has seen a particularly sharp rise since late last year. On this digital journey, India has been a strategic market for it and contributes substantially to its global R&D. It has 5,200 employees in India, 30% of its global workforce. “Virtually every single product of Adobe has some fundamental work that’s done here,” he said.
 
 Narayen believes delivering digital experiences across touchpoints is the third wave of enterprise software. The previous two, he says, were automation of the finance system and transformation of the front office to enhance productivity. The next generation of enterprise software, he says, is where one looks at every consumer digital touch point, and helps the entire enterprise transform.
 
 The company is betting big on mobile devices not just as a consumption device but a creation device that can use 3D, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) technologies – and having the ability for consumers to tell their stories using a multimedia platform. “The next generation of storytelling will be a combination of content and data,” Narayen said.
 
 Narayen is excited about everything related to digital marketing. The business did not exist five years ago but is close to touching $2 billion in revenue now. “We looked at the total addressable market, which is $40 billion. Digital is this massive tailwind, and content and content explosion and using data to deliver these experiences is the new frontier,” he said.
 
 Adobe achieved record quarterly revenue of $1.68 billion in the March quarter of the 2017 financial year, with digital media and creative revenues at $1.14 billion and $942 million respectively.
 
