LUDHIANA: Wary of outsiders’ interference into college affairs, authorities of   on Saturday declared a holiday for students till March 14. 

 The decision was taken as the situation began to flare up again when students representing different political outfits raised the issue that the college principal did not turn up to address the students. College authorities also claimed that a handful of students having affiliations with the political outfits were not letting the issue settle down and dissuading students from attending classes so that protest could continue.
 
 On Friday students had decided to call off strike following intervention of   leader Simarjeet Singh Bains who had announced that the college management had agreed to fulfil students’ demands. He had also announced that the college principal would address the students on Saturday.
 
 However, on Saturday it was vice-principal Sarabjit Kaur Bhattal turned up to address the students and warned that the students who indulge in indiscipline would be rusticated. “We have obeyed your each and every demand, but now it is your duty to go and attend lectures. Now, if you create indiscipline, college authorities will rusticate you,” she warned the students. 
 
 This annoyed several students who started their protest again. “College was to get regular from Saturday and every one had started attending the lecture. The principal was suppose to address students but instead vice-principal turned up and issued warning to students, which led to protest, leading to closure of school,” said a student. The college, however, will remain open for the teaching and non-teaching staff. 
 
 Director   and SOI Zonal president Meetpal Singh Dugri said that the college Principal and management were reluctant to meet the students to settle the matter. He said a request has been made to the Deputy Commissioner to intervene and hold meeting with the students. The meeting he said would be held on Monday. Taking up the issue Meetpal Singh Dugri assured the students that SOI would urge administration to form committee to settle the issue. Students would go to the DC office at around 10 am on Monday, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, college authorities claimed that the issue has already been resolved and there was no need to rake it up again. “Although I have accepted the demands, but they are still not ready to focus on studies,” said principal Charanjit Kaur Mahal. Mahal also added that she has addressed the hostellers and asked them to come back to college after March 14, in accordance with the decision of the college management. 
 
 “Outsiders are obstructing the students. So we have decided to close the college. Everything has been settled but these handfuls of students and political parties are intervening into the college affairs and creating chaos. We are going to take strict action against them and will approach the deputy commissioner and authorities,” said Mahal.
 
 Gurbir Singh, president of the college management committee, said, “The principal has personally addressed the students twice and we have heard their problems and have sorted out the issue.” 
 
 Ishwar Jot Cheema, general secretary of the college, said the college had to be closed for 10 days as the issue is yet to be settled despite several attempts to reach a solution. If they are asking for rights, they too have duties to obey. They should now focus on studies as exams are approaching, but they are being adamant and creating scenes.”
 
