CHENNAI: The poor rating that   holds in the ease of doing business ranking by Niti Aayog rocked the TN assembly on Friday. As the opposition raised the issue, the government urged opposition members not to spread rumours that may prompt investors interested in investing in the state to have a rethink.

 The issue was raised by leader of opposition M K Stalin during the zero hour. “Newspapers today have reported about the Niti Aayog ranking of states on ease of doing business. The meeting was convened in New Delhi a few days ago and chief secretaries from many states including ours participated. Telangana and other neighbouring states have been ranked higher than Tamil Nadu. TN is at the last. What is the government planning to do,” asked Stalin.
 
 Responding to it, state industries minister M C Sampath read out a list of companies that have evinced interest to invest in Tamil Nadu. He said no industry had left Tamil Nadu. Stalin said there was no second opinion on what the minister had read out, but he had not answered his question.
 
 Intervening, power minister   said, “Many industries have set up shop in Nellore but all of them have their head offices in Chennai. Tamil Nadu is placed high in several parameters. No other state has such good connectivity of air, sea, road and rail. We are also a power surplus state”.
 
 As the DMK members were not relenting, Thangamani said, “We must be united in wooing investments. Please don’t start a misinformation campaign against Tamil Nadu. Investors may think that something is basically wrong and will shy away from investing”. This had a positive effect and DMK MLAs relented. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who was present in the House, remained silent.
 
 Chief secretary  , meanwhile, sent a note to the industries minister stating that Niti Aayog had ranked states on the basis of ease of doing business. Sampath said the ranking was an issue and that Tamil Nadu had passed the Business Facilitation Act which would ensure ease of doing business.
 
