Bengaluru:   on Monday launched a   to help those who intend to utilize the   The newly created department of  ,   will provide the applicants a platform---Kaushalkar.com--- for registration. 

 With the primary intention of training school dropouts, candidates from the deprived class and the backward regions of the state, the website will have registrations open for a week for immediate employment. The portal will be open for a drive between May 15 and May 22. There will be reservation for the SCs (20%), STs (7%) and minorities (15%). Within these reservations, there will be 3% quota for the physically challenged and 33% for women.
 
 Siddaramaiah said the government will roll out a skill development policy to ensure market-driven skills are imparted. “We will ensure that people get market-oriented skills, especially those required in the industrial and manufacturing sectors,” he added. 
 
 The CM said the government intends to create employment to the tune of 1.80 crore as estimated by the Knowledge Commission of Karnataka, by 2030. “The state is planning to create five lakh jobs in the current financial year,” he said and added that MLAs and district ministers must ensure that public are aware of the government programme. 
 
 Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar is the brand ambassador for the programme.
 
 Free training for the unemployed
 
 The website,   and Kaushalkar application will be open for the unemployed to apply for a training programme of their choice. The app and the website will allow registration of people in the age group of 18 to 35 years who are illiterate or dropouts. The application can be downloaded on Android smartphone. The applicants will be telephonically interviewed for confirmation of their credentials furnished. Later, counselling and guidance will be provided to find whether the aspirations match the candidate’s aptitude, and will be chosen for either direct placement, apprenticeship or skill training. The training will be free of cost.
 
 
