NOIDA: A 16-year-old boy from   has scored full marks in two SAT subject tests. Made up of multiple choice questions, SAT scores are required for admission in several undergraduate courses in US universities.

 Currently appearing for his Class XII CBSE Board exams from   Greater Noida, Rahul Yadav (16) has scored 800 out of 800 in both physics and maths SAT tests, achieving a perfect score of 1,600/1,600.
 
 Owned by an NGO, College Board, the ‘SAT Suite of Assessments Test’ is conducted by the Education Testing Service (ETS) multiple times in a year and international students can also take the tests between October and May. ETS is a US-based private organisation for educational testing and assessment. There are two types of tests offered by the College Board — SAT General and SAT Subject tests.
 
 Close behind Rahul are Yash Bhatkar of Noida, who scored 1,590 in the SAT Subjects tests, and Shubham Agarwal from Lucknow, who got 1,590 marks in the SAT General Tests.
 
 Rahul is now eyeing a seat in the coveted   (MIT) in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He took the subject tests on December 3, 2016.
 
 Rahul told TOI that although he did not take any coaching classes for the tests, he did buy extra books for preparation.
 
 “I think the CBSE syllabus is more than sufficient to prepare for the tests, and I don’t think those studying under international boards have any extra edge. Since I was already preparing for IIT, that helped me prepare for the SAT subject tests too,” he said.
 
 However, Rahul believes that just full marks in the SAT subject tests are not enough to fulfil his dream of studying in MIT. “English language proficiency is very important in US universities. Every university has its own requirements. I have to keep myself updated on them as some of them start the admission process by the end of March,” he said.
 
 Born to former investment bankers Anil and Seema Yadav, Rahul is a resident of Greater Noida’s Sector Omega-II. He has also been selected for the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY), an ongoing national programme of fellowship in basic sciences and technology. The programme, run by Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, aims at attracting exceptionally talented and highly motivated students for pursuing a research career in science.
 
 
