PATNA: Patnaites, of late, have started boycotting Chinese products, including China-made rakhis amid New Delhi-Beijing stand-off in   area on India’s border, said traders dealing in  . 

 Ranju Singh, who runs a cosmetic and jewellery store on  , said people are boycotting Chinese rakhis. “People are slowly opting out of buying Chinese products, it seems. It’s a kind of boycott of Chinese goods,” she said and added that she was unable to sell even Chinese lights during Diwali as people were angry with China. The sentiment with rakhi is strong this time, she said.
 
 Sarita Kumari of Kankarbagh said she was unable to tolerate China-made products now. “I have received several messages on WhatsApp. People are requesting Indians to boycott Chinese goods, especially rakhis. When our brothers are trying to protect the border against them, how can we buy rakhi made by them? Chinese people earn in crores every year by selling products in India during festivals and use that money against us. We have to stop this,” she said.
 
 Manish Kumar, a rakhi seller in   locality, said   are not available anywhere in the market this time. “There is no demand for Chinese rakhis in the market. We can only sell what the customers demand from us. People are opting for traditional rakhis,” he said. 
 
 Saurabh Singh, another rakhi vendor, said he would have not sold Chinese rakhi even if it was available in the wholesale market. 
 
 “Traditionally, rakhis are made of raw thread which is believed to protect the life of brothers. The rakhis from China are made of metals and ribbons. Last year, when I had bought a Chinese bracelet rakhi for my brother, my mother asked me to return the rakhi and exchange it with the one made of raw thread,” said Jyoti Sinha, a resident of Jakkanpur. 
 
 Kumari Swati, a resident of Boring Road, said she had heard that Chinese rakhis contained lead, which is harmful for the skin. “A few years back, there had been reports that the toys made in China had lead mixed in the colour. I have been boycotting all Chinese products since then,” she said.
 
