INDORE: Lok Sabha Speaker   called upon South Asian countries to ensure peace in the region for the achievement of   (SDGs).

 “There should be peace, peace, peace…, only then there will be development,” Mahajan said, delivering the inaugural address at the South Asia Speakers Summit on Achieving Sustainable Development Goals here on Saturday.
 
 The two-day summit is being attended by speakers, presiding officers and delegates from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Nepal. Pakistan had decided to skip the event.
 
 “India and its Parliament is committed to working with the international community to craft an ambitious, comprehensive and equitable development agenda with poverty-eradication at its core,” she said.
 
 Mahajan asserted that India is expected spend approximately $565 billion per annum over the next 15 years to achieve SDGs. “This would require help from all possible quarters, including developed countries and international institutions,” she added.
 
 “There is little doubt that we have overcome many political, social and economic challenges in the past century and are marching towards a better future,” Mahajan said, adding, “However, resource limitation is a challenge all our respective governments are grappling with.” Mahajan said the estimated expenditure for achieving of SDGs globally is about $5 to $7 trillion per annum, of which the developing countries need about $3.9 trillion per annum.
 
 The SDGs have set global priorities for the progress of humanity and emphasises on achieving a balance of the three pillars of economic growth, social development and environmental protection.
 
 “In my view, immediate relevance of the goals to local priorities at national and sub-national levels actually holds the key. I strongly feel that development at the cost of our culture is not sustainable.., and no development is possible and sustainable unless it has a human face,” Mahajan said. Effective delivery of schemes which targets people at the bottom of the socio-economic strata goes a long way in eradicating poverty and achieving the first goal, the Speaker said. “We need to focus on issues related to inter-generational equity; inequitable nature of development between nations; requirement of financial assistance and technology transfer from developed countries to developing countries; enabling more equitable growth versus environmental concerns,” said Mahajan. “Our region is endowed with vast natural resources, rich culture and ancient heritage. Despite this, we are plagued by poverty and conflicts,” she added.
 
 The Speaker called upon parliamentarians to evolve a common roadmap to end poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy, ignorance, disease and discrimination, especially of the girl child. “This requires conscious effort and concerted action from all of us here to achieve the desired results,” she said.
 
