AHMEDABAD: In a bid to bring pressure on the state government to consider their demands, members of the Fair Price Shop Owners and Kerosene License Holders Association in the state have stopped procuring essential commodities, said  , the president of the association.

 Modi said they made several attempts to meet state functionaries and negotiate, but the   government did not consider it.
 
 “We have stopped taking permits from the government and from now on, we will not procure foodgrains and other essential commodities. If the government wants people to get essential commodities, it should accept our demands,” he said.
 
 The Fair Price Shop owners and kerosene license holders have to renew their permits every month after providing details of stock distributed to   and   card holders. 
 
 Gujarat has 22,000 fair price shop owners and kerosene license holders, who distribute essential commodities to around 1.2 crore ration card holders including below-poverty-line beneficiaries and beneficiaries of Antyodaya schemes.
 
 Some 65 lakh card holders are under the purview of the  , while 55 lakh ration cards have been declared void.
 
 “The state government has not yet called us to negotiate. We had been trying to talk to them, but the government is turning a deaf ear to our demands,” said Modi.
 
 Modi had earlier announced that Fair Price Shop owners and kerosene license holders would go on an indefinite strike from May 28, if their demands are not met. The association has made various demands, ranging from approval to sell gas under the   to financial assistance for higher education for their children. It has also demanded that cancelled cards be reactivated, so that fair price shop owners and kerosene license holders continue to commission on the sale of essential commodities.
 
 A civil rights activist, Bharatsinh Jhala, who has been fighting for food security rights, said the poor people will get crushed between the mighty government and the fair price shop owners. 
 
