DEHRADUN: With the assembly elections just round the corner, the   (BJP) on Sunday raked up an old controversy involving speaker   by screening a seven-minute video clip of the Uttarakhand House proceedings on March 18 last, showing him “stoically giving an dictation (inaudible) and paying no heed to MLAs’ demand for a voting” on the Appropriation Bill.
 
 The video was screened at a press conference held by spokesperson Vinay Goel at the party headquarters here, days after the saffron party demanded action by the state election commission after a section officer-rank official,  , posted at the speaker’s office, was allegedly caught with Rs 10 lakh in new denomination on Friday.
  
 The video clip, a copy of which is also available with TOI, begins with the speaker instructing the House for a voice vote on the bill, followed by an oral submission by leader of opposition Ajay Bhatt for a   amid pandemonium, and BJP and nine Congress MLAs subsequently joining the demand. Thereafter, the camera moves away from the BJP and Congress leaders to a Tricolour in the House, and then returns to the speaker’s empty chair.
  
 “We want to tell the entire world that how he (Kunjwal) misused his constitutional authority that day to save the Congress government. Thus far, the people of the state have no clue about the speaker’s role on that day, but now it (video clip) is for everyone to see,” said Goel.
  
 The video shows how the nine Congress MLAs, including Vijay Bahuguna, Harak Singh Rawat and others, one by one joined BJP MLAs in the House demanding a voting on the bill.
  
 Rejecting that the video screening was a BJP’s poll stunt, Goel said, “We received the video last (Saturday) night only, else we would have screened it earlier. The purpose is to expose Kunjwal, who misused his constitutional position to save chief minister Harish Rawat’s government that day.”
  
 Goel further said, “The state assembly had refused to share the video of the House proceedings of the fateful day under the RTI, but the party managed to get it.”
  
 Reacting to the BJP’s raking up the issue by releasing the video footage, chief minister’s media advisor Surender Kumar said, “The BJP must also share videos of the conspiracy hatched on March17, which followed by a horse-trading of MLAs and their subsequent flight to Delhi.”
  
 “Even as the   and the high court have clearly given their verdicts in this connection, the BJP is raking up the issue yet again, because it has no respect for the legal institutions,” he added.
  
 Kunjwal, however, could not be reached for a comment.
  
 Meanwhile, police have registered a case under the Representation of People Act 1951 in the seizure of Rs10 lakh on January 13 at Motichoor railway gate in Raiwala.
  
  “The case was registered on the suspicion that the money belonged to some politician and was to be used in the upcoming elections,” a police official told TOI.
