NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government’s budget presentation saw the ruling dispensation blame demonetisation for coming in the way of Delhi’s economic growth and as a factor that forced the government to reduce its targets for spending on development projects. The attack on the BJP-led Centre’s decision of “notebandi” was cited as a reason for many labourers leaving the city as survival became difficult due to lack of work.

 During his budget speech in the House, Sisodia cited the adverse impact of demonetisation as an important factor that has led to the reduction in plan outlay for 2016-17 from Rs 20,600 crore in budget estimates to Rs 16,500 crore in revised estimates. This reflects a cut in spending on various developmental projects by about Rs 4,100 crore. “We would not have to reduced the plan outlay had demonetisation not been carried out,” he said.
 
 He hit out at the Centre, saying “the economy cannot be run by tossing coins. To take decisions that are in the interest of the people, you need to do brainstorming. The note ban was one such measure that is an example of a decision taken probably sitting in a closed room by tossing coins.” Sisodia said the demonetisation crisis had affected labourers the most and that he had come across instances where some labourers allegedly committed suicide due to their adverse circumstances.
 
 Sisodia, however, asserted that the economy of the state will grow “despite demonetisation”. He pointed out hat “notebandi” has led to a fall in the state's GDP growth (at constant prices) for 2016-17 although it will still be higher than the national GDP growth for the year. The state's GDP for the current year is now estimated to grow by 8.26%, against the 8.82% growth in 2015-16. India's GDP for 2016-17 is projected to rise by 7.1%.
 
 He said the Gross State Domestic Product of Delhi at current prices is likely to increase to Rs 6.22 lakh crore in 2016-17 from Rs 5.51 lakh crore in 2015-16, indicating a growth of 12.76 per cent.
 
 The budget though projected the tax revenue collection for 2017-18 at Rs 38,700 crore, which is 19.33 per cent higher than the 2016-17 revised estimates at Rs 32,430 crore. Low tax collection has remained a concern for the government as it has failed to achieve the targeted VAT collection of Rs 24,000 crore for the current financial year. It has been revised to Rs 20,245 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the budget reflected the vision of the government and its focus on education and health showed how we perceive development. “Also, the budget makes space for infrastructure projects. So, it’s not that we are compromising on development of any sector,” Kejriwal said.
 
 On the proposal in the budget to give a financial allocation of Rs 7571 crore, which is 15.8% of the total budget, to MCDs, Kejriwal said, “This should help MCDs to tide over the repeated financial crisis it ends up in as far as salaries go. To those who say that we are giving these funds with an eye on the municipal polls, I would like to ask what is wrong in seeking voter support by doing good work. If we are able to do good work and get votes, then that is a good thing.” 
 
 The CM pointed out that the AAP government had not imposed any new tax for the third consecutive year. “How have we achieved it? Earlier, a major part of public money went into corruption, but since we have come to power, public money is being saved due to which we are investing more in education, health and infrastructure projects,” he added.
 
 
