Hyderabad:   Real Ventures Pvt Ltd, the real estate arm of Hyderabad-based Navayuga Group, has joined hands with Bengaluru-based online commercial real estate marketplace PurpleYo to foray into the co-working office space mart with Table Space, a premium co-working space venture.

 While the first ‘Table Space’, spread across 30,000 sft, will come up at Gachibowli at the group’s first retail-cum-commercial development -- ‘Navayuga Vizva’, plans are also afoot to take the venture to Pune and Bengaluru, in addition to setting up a second co-working space in Hyderabad by the end of 2017. The first ‘Table Space’ at Hyderabad will have a capacity of around 500 seats and will offer space at Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000 per seat per month. Table Space will offer co-working spaces ranging from 30,000-50,000 sft in various cities. Navayuga Real Ventures Pvt Ltd director Arvind Dharmapuri said while Navayuga Real will own or lease the Table Space properties, PurpleYo will provide the facility management services. The two have also worked out a revenue sharing formula for the joint venture. There is not only a lack of Grade-A office space in the city this year, overall the IT realty space is in a transition phase with large corporates, especially MNCs, looking at the plug-and-play model in a co-working environment,” Dharmapuri said. “They (MNCs) no longer want to spend Rs 1500-2,000 per sft on furnishing leased spaces due to the cost and hassles involved, including deposit and lock-in period etc,” Dharmapuri explained. PurpleYo and Table Space MD Karan Chopra said they hope to start closing some deals by mid-May and roll out their first co-working space by June that will offer collaborative, shared or private offices, for teams of five to 200. Navayuga Real is in advanced stages of parleys with a realtor to lease out around 40,000 sft for its second outlet in Hyderabad’s financial district, Dharmapuri said, adding that they are also in talks with developers in Pune and Bengaluru for leasing out properties.
 
  “At Vizva we have also signed up anchor tenants like Future Group’s Central, which is coming up with its first high end outlet in Hyderabad, and Agility Logistics’ global IT backup office. At the upcoming mall at Begumpet we have already signed up Cinepolis for 60,000 sft space where it will set up a premium 9-screen multiplex. Zara has inked an LoI (letter of intent) for around 26,000 sft outlet at Begumpet,” Dharmapuri added. 
 
 
