GURUGRAM:   is 79 and frail. He wears a pinstriped shirt, sleeps on a smelly hospital cot and sports a mop of white, ruffled hair. There is nothing to tell him apart in a room of about a dozen inmates. Till he speaks.

 “Trump should have proven good for India,” Gupta says in impeccable English, “Because he could have enabled us to take China head on. But because of the rising number of attacks on Indians in the US, I’m starting to disapprove of him.”
 
 Gupta can engage in erudite discussions on many a subject, but scarcely gets an opportunity to strike up a conversation.  , the   situated in   on the   foothills in Gurgaon, is now his home. Keeping him company are other castaways, many of them with some form of mental disability, cut loose from familial moorings by sons, daughters, and even spouses. 
 
 Gupta has no such affliction but ended up here because both his sons abandoned him. Gupta had an illustrious career as an engineer with private firms, among them Unitech. His family is affluent. “My elder son is a 44-year-old physicist who studied in DU,” Gupta says, declining to give a name. “My younger son, as far as I can remember, was a GM at Motorola.”
 
 Problems began for Gupta when his elder son became a disciple of a godman. “I don’t understand what happened to him,” says Gupta. “He was so lost in his devotion. Eventually, he even stopped recognising me. He’s been staying in Jalandhar for 20 years. I don’t know his whereabouts. I tried living with my younger son, but he starting assaulting and abusing me. My wife died in 2011. My neighbours got me here 14 months ago.”
 
 Gurukul is home to over 300 inmates and has been around for a while. “We have been doing this work for over 10 years,” says Ravi Kalra who founded the group that runs the centre. “But of late, we’ve witnessed a new trend. New inmates are often abandoned by their families in hospitals under false names. Unable to pay for their expenses, the hospitals then get them here.”
 
 Rakesh (43), an auto driver from Karol Bagh, was driven to a similar fate. Last year, he met with an accident. Severely injured, he was taken to Safdurjung Hospital, where he was diagnosed with brain haemorrhage. Rakesh stayed two months at the hospital. “For the first few days, his family — three teenage children and wife — used to visit him, but after realizing his medical costs were rising, they did not turn up again,” says an attendant. “The hospital got him here.”
 
 Kalra said, “Most of the inmates have been turned out by their own kids,” he said. “They often arrive infested with maggots, and are ignored. Hospitals hand them over to us.”
 
 One such case was of Avikar Raj, who retired as a judge at the International Court of Justice. A London School of Economics graduate, Raj was once solicitor for former South African President Nelson Mandela, Kalra said. Raj’s case had become a huge sensation on TV but Kalra says no one ever came to help him, except a few retired judges and bureaucrats, who visited him. Raj stayed at the home for about five years before succumbing to leukaemia in hospital. 
 
 
