LUDHIANA: Even though filing of nominations are to begin from Wednesday, parties are yet to announce candidates on various seats. Names of 17 candidates have been announced in eight urban constituencies. 
 
 The SAD has announced five candidates while its alliance partner   is yet to announce names in rest of the three constituencies in urban area. The   has declared only two candidates while alliance of the   and   has announced names of all eight candidates in urban areas. 
 
 In the previous elections, it has been seen several times that voters get confuse due to similar names of candidates from the same constituency. Therefore, additional measures are being taken up by the election commission in this regard. 
 
 Meanwhile, in a first, ballot papers on electronic voter machines (EVMs) will have photographs of the candidates along with the party symbol. The step will be introduced in the upcoming assembly elections to help people cast their votes without any confusion. 
 
 In the upcoming assembly elections, voters will see photographs of candidates on ballot paper for the first time that will facilitate them to cast their vote without any confusion in case two or more candidates have same name. According to officials, photograph of the candidates would be printed on the panel to facilitate the voters. Keeping this mind, the candidates, who would file their nomination papers, would also have to submit their recent photograph to the returning officers. 
 
 While confirming the same district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner   said that it had been decided to have photographs of candidates on the ballot papers, but the placement of the picture will be decided after the announcement of all candidates as well as the nomination procedure. He added that more than 3,000 EVM machines have also reached the city and they had distributed the machines constituency wise while keeping 20% reserve with them. 
 
 Oath before ROs while filing nomination
 
 For the first time, the candidates will be asked to take a pledge before the returning officers at the time of filing nomination. The oath has been prepared by the   where candidates will asked to take a pledge that they will not try to bribe the voters in elections. However, it is not compulsory for the candidates to take the oath. 
 
