BENGALURU: Union minister Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday termed mixing religion with politics as ‘unfortunate’ and said that religion must be private.

 “Religion is a way of worship that must be private. It is unfortunate that people are mixing religion with politics. As a society what we must be proud of is our culture or dharma which is the way of life,” Naidu said at an event organized by the  .
 
 Naidu said: “Our culture teaches one to share, but one has to first earn to be able to share with others.” “You must first generate wealth in the right way to be able to share. If you just want to share without generating wealth you will become a pauper and can do no good. The Ramaiah Institutions have shown how one can share wealth with the poor through free treatment and scholarships,” he added.
 
 Naidu spoke after unveiling the statue of MS Ramaiah, the founder of the Ramaiah Group of Institutions, at the hospital campus in Mathikere. The Ramaiah Group also launched a new logo and anthem for the institution.
 
 Group chairman M R Jayaram said: “The Ramaiah group’s endeavours will be to take education and health to as many people as possible. We are soon going to integrate allopathy and ayurveda, a first-of-its-kind initiative by a private university. There is also our public policy centre which is working towards integrating India’s history and culture with western learnings.”
 
 Naidu, while pointing out that India has enough talent which just needs to be nurtured and developed, said: “There was a time when we looked at the outside world, today we have people like Sundar Pichai, and so many others heading top corporates. If you go to  , you will find that every second person is an Indian.”
 
 Encouraging private participation in the country, he said: “We have great examples like the Ramaiah Group. I believe public-private-partnership is the need of the hour.”
 
 The minister, however, also stressed on the need for regulation. “In a democracy, there is a need for regulation. And as a government, the prime minister is conscious of both,” he said.
 
  (Isro) chairman A S Kiran Kumar and state higher education minister   pointed out the need to have a vision that can create better opportunities and a manpower resource that the world can look up to.
 
