BENGALURU: After announcing five per cent reservation for state civil services aspirants who have studied in Kannada medium, the government is considering relaxing rules in   in  . 

 At present,   provides 10% horizontal reservation for candidates who have studied from classes 1 to 10 in a rural area in government jobs. Following a petition from rural students, who want the quota to be extended to those who have studied from classes 1 to 7, the government has asked the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) to examine the old rule and submit a report, officials sources said. “We will take a call soon,” said T K Anil Kumar, secretary, DPAR.
 
 Under the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules-1977, a rural candidate is defined as one who has studied from classes 1 to 10 in a school situated in any area other than a large urban area, smaller urban area or transitional area specified under the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act of 1976 or the Municipalities Act of 1964. The amended civil services rules also define a rural area as an area/town with a population of less than 10,000 as per the 2011 census.
 
 Ajith Kumar, a state civil services aspirant, among the signatories who have petitioned chief minister Siddaramaiah, said rural candidates have secured inadequate representation in the government’s recent recruitment drive because of this archaic rule. While most states have relaxed the rule to seven years, Telangana has brought it down to five years to facilitate more rural students to avail of the quota.
 
 Explaining why the rule has become illogical and outdated, Shilpa Mohan, another civil services aspirant, quoting the petition submitted to the CM, said: “Most students who study in rural schools till primary classes shift to urban centres to pursue high school for various reasons. Also, the students of high schools run by the social welfare department and Navodaya schools run by the Centre don’t qualify for the quota simply because such institutions are located in district or taluk headquarters.”
 
 “Not many rural students haven benefited, especially after the government introduced 8% separate reservation for students from the Hyderbad-Karnatak region under Article 371(J) of the Constitution. They were earlier the biggest beneficiaries of the  ,” Kumar added.
 
 
 
 
 Article 16 (4) of the Constitution allow states to make provision for reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, is not adequately represented in the services under the state. Initially, the reservation was 12.5% for SCs and 05% for STs. But in 1970, the percentages were enhanced to 15% and 7.5% respectively. In the recent landmark case, the Supreme Court held that percentage could not exceed 50%.
 
