TRICHY: Let alone walking on the pedestrian pathways on either side of Netaji   ( ) road, one may not be able to locate even these pathways if he or she intends to. Such is the penetration of   on pathways pushing the people on to the roads leading to accidents. However, things may change, thanks to the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act which the   is in the process of implementing. 

 There are over 5,000 shops in the Teppakulam areas around Rockfort including NSB road,   street and adjoining areas. Being the hub of commercial activity, this is the ultimate shopping destination for people not only from the city but also neighbouring districts. The commercially vibrant city roads will be decongested and the pedestrians will have their legitimate roadside space within a year if one goes by the civic body plan. 
 
 According to the plan which seeks to leverage the street vendors act, vendors will be streamlined by creating specific zones. This is to ensure that their livelihood is not affected and the busy city roads are decongested. The corporation has been conducting periodic eviction drives especially before festivals but makeshift arrangements have been mushrooming within hours thanks to poor enforcement. The Street Vendors Act has come as a permanent solution, says senior officials of the city corporation. 
 
 “We have identified 2,100 street vendors so far around big bazaar street who are being issued identity cards in the first stage,” said corporation commissioner N Ravichandran. “A 15-member street vendor committee will be formed in the next stage with elected representatives from among street vendors. The committee will later decide on vendor zones where places would be earmarked ensuring no disturbance to the traffic movement on roads,” he said.
 
 While consumer activists welcome the move, they are apprehensive of its effective implementation. “No doubt that the consumers would be the biggest beneficiaries of street vendors act, but the real challenge will be in its implementation” said M Sekaran, member of the road safety council. While NSB road may fall in the non-vendor zone it is unlikely that street vendors would agree to move from the busy streets, he said. 
 
 If lack of parking space has been adding up to the congestion on city roads, street vendors have been robbing pedestrians of their roadside pathways causing frequent accidents, he said. “Not only NSB road but encroachment of public space by street vendors is widespread in bus stands,” said secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu S Pushpavanam. Thillai Nagar seems to be the next victim of unscrupulous encroachment in recent years, he said. 
 
