GANDHINAGAR: At the valedictory function of the eighth edition of the   – Gujarat CM,   said the successive summits have created brand Gujarat across the globe, and the development begun by then CM and current PM, Narendra Modi, will continue unabated.

 Rupani said, “In 2003, the PM started this summit, which has consistently grown in leaps and bounds. In this 8th summit, more than 100 countries have participated, which shows the global acceptance.”
 
 “Those who came here had Gujarati vegetarian food, asked ‘kem chho, maja ma chho?’ and used ‘namaste’, which shows the acceptance of our culture and values,” added Rupani.
 
 “Those who are sceptical of the achievement of these summits must take note of this change. Foreign visitors to the summit are the biggest ambassadors of brand Gujarat,” Rupani said.
 
 The CM lauded PM Modi for making the event successful. He said that it was possible to build the summit on such a large scale due to PM Modi’s ‘virat darshan’ (big vision).
 
 Responding to criticism over lack of jobs in Gujarat and embarrassing public rallies by youngsters like Alpesh Thakor, Jignesh Mevani and Patidar youths, Rupani said, “Through Vibrant, a lot of opportunities have been created in Gujarat.”
 
 “After the Maruti plant came to Gujarat, a lot of ancillary industries came here generating indirect employment,” said the CM. “Gujarat’s youth need to tap these opportunities through their entrepreneurial skills,” Rupani added.
 
 “Gujaratis need to further their image of job-givers rather than jobseekers. Through projects like the   and development in sectors, lakhs of jobs will be available in the coming days,” the CM asserted.
 
 eople will come and go, policies will remain consistent: Rupani
 
 Many eyebrows were raised fuelling speculations that Rupani may not lead the state after 2017, when the CM said, “Gujarat has brought 18 new policies to facilitate investment. People will come and go, but the policies will remain consistent and your investment will not be affected.”
 
 
