KOLKATA: First year college student   made three rounds of   and   since Monday in search of a ticket to the final IPL match of the season in the city as Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) clash with their arch rivals   (MI).

 But sadly Chatterjee had to return empty handed just like hundreds others as tickets for Saturday’s match are already booked. Placards with “sold out” notices hung outside the counters since Monday morning. Even online tickets were taken barring a few premium tickets of B Block, which cost Rs 6,500 each.
 
 “I have been trying to book the tickets online for the past five-seven days but all popular tickets are booked. I also visited the counters at Maidan but no tickets were available,” said Chatterjee, a Jadavpur resident.
 
 Another KKR fan said he had bought four Rs 500 tickets for Rs 1,000 each. “On Thursday, I went there again and searched for the blackers but even they said that all tickets are sold out,” said Ankit Chowdhury, who works at an MNC in Sector V. 
 
 Till Wednesday, tickets of Rs 500 were sold at Rs 2,500 and price of tickets worth Rs 1,500 went as high as Rs 4,000.
 
 Deflated after three defeats, the Saturday evening scorcher is a must win for KKR to secure second position at the play-offs. 
 
 “You are going to see Shah Rukh Khan on Saturday. He’s coming with a big entourage. He’s looking forward to it,” KKR CEO Venky Mysore said on the sidelines of a promotional event on Thursday. 
 
 The Bollywood star and owner has rarely been present during KKR’s outing in the current season except the opening game against Gujarat Lions at Rajkot, where KKR thrashed the opposition with a ten wicket win. In that match Chris Lynn had scored 93 not out off 41 balls and Gautam Gambhir steadied the unbeaten opening partnership with of 76 runs out of 48 balls. 
 
 SRK’s presence in the Eden stands always increases the demand of VVIP passes with city’s elite wanting to be seen alongside Bollywood superstar. 
 
 KKR would however have to beat MI in their last match to make themselves safe. Statistics show MI has been a team that KKR have always found difficult to beat. KKR has only been able to defeat them five times out of 17 face-offs. 
 
 However, apart from the Mumbai Indians and Rohit Sharma, for whom Eden Gardens is the happiest hunting ground, KKR might face another roadblock from weather as forecast says there is a possibility of rain and thundershower on Saturday evening. 
 
 “KKR must beat MI. I just wish Chrish Lynn and Sunil Narine are at their best on Saturday,” said Neha Jaiswal, who was smart enough to book tickets for the match two weeks in advance.
 
