BENGALURU: The first cybercrime police station under the Bengaluru City Police (BCP) will be unveiled in a month. But the new station is going to be of little solace to most victims of cyber fraud.A government order mandates that cybercrime police stations can register only those cases of bank card where frauds exceed over Rs 5 lakh and online cheating of over Rs 50 lakh.

 Those who lose any amount less than the stipulated ones must approach police stations in their respective jurisdiction and they comprise almost 90% of the total cy bercrime victims in city. This may lead to many complainants being turned away by the upcoming cybercrime station, and fraudsters having a free run. Around 75 complaints rtaining to cybercrime are pertaining to cybercrime are received daily in Bengaluru, with over Rs 20 crore siphoned off in 2016.
 
 The city is already home to two cybercrime stations under the state's   -one at its headquarters since 2001 and the other inside the Police Commissionerate since 2015.
 
 City police commissioner Praveen Sood said that the new station will function under the   with concurrent jurisdiction where any person residing under BCP limits can lodge a cybercrime complaint. There is a rise in number of online frauds and people have lost their hard-earned money . Culprits sitting behind screens in remote locations are easily conning people to the tune of lakhs of rupees. The new cybercrime station will have personnel who are aware of different types of frauds and will track down fraudsters,“ city police commissioner Praveen Sood said.
 
 Police are putting together a team of sleuths and zeroing in on a central location.For the moment, it'll start operations from the   office on Mysuru Road.
 
 The new station could be of little use for people like Harikrishna, an IT professional from Koramangala, who said: “I lost over Rs 80,000 from my Citibank account overnight in a series of transfers by an unknown person. I approached the CID cyber cell in Carlton House the next morning, but was directed to the Ulsoor police station. I had a tough time trying to explain to the station cop how I was conned.“
 
 V Krishan Kumar, who approached the   last July after losing Rs 50,000 from his ICICI account, also faced a similar situation. The two men are still trying to recover their lost cash. Additional Commissioner (Crime) S Ravi said, “We'll analyze the complaint patterns to the new facility and if required, the standing orders can be altered.“ It'll be the first cybercrime police station under the Bengaluru City Police and people can lodge complaints irrespective of where they stay.
 
