BHOPAL: Raja Bhoj Airport climbed six spots to 33rd rank in customer satisfaction index at tier-II airports but it’s not time to uncork the bubbly, yet. Bhopal has a lot of catching up to do — 33rd of 49 rankings isn’t much to cheer about.

 Raipur was ranked the best in India among airports having a flier count of 15 lakh or less, and MP cut a dismal figure — only Khajuraho, ranked 11, saved the state from a washout. The rankings were released by Airport Authority of India (AAI) for January to June, 2017. After Khajuraho, the next MP airport on the list is Bhopal, with Jabalpur and   bringing up the tail at 44th and 46th rank. Sources say Indore wasn’t included in the rankings because its passenger count crosses 18 lakh. Last year, it had bagged an impressive score of 4.34.
 
 AAI releases a survey report every six months, which is calculated on the basis of 33 parameters. These include customer satisfaction scales like parking and restaurant facilities, check-in-staff’s efficiency and other infrastructure.
 
 Bhopal airport scored 4.12 points on a five-point scale, up from 4.04 in the last survey, but below the national average is 4.25. Bhopal ranks lower than smaller airports like Silchar (23), Bhuj (22) and Hubli (19). 
 
 Raipur stands on top with 4.84 points — 0.02 points better than the last survey, where it was ranked second. Khajuraho has stepped up four ranks with 4.51 points. In the last survey, it got 4.48 points.
 
 Bhopal has mostly scored between 4.20 and 4.60 points in most of the parameters. It got the lowest for ambience — 4.15 points — and highest (4.64 points) for internet and Wi-Fi facility.
 
 At present, only two airlines operate out of Bhopal airport. Airlines have recently announced plans to start operations to a couple more cities, including Ahmedabad and Jaipur. 
 
 “Bhopal airport has improved on the rankings but it is not enough since it is the state capital. Small airports are ranked better. Our airport must aim to be in the top 20 list, at least,” said B Manish, an IT professional. 
 
 
