Bhopal: Amidst sloth-paced Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigations into the   issue, people who blew the lid off the infamous scam have alleged harassment by the state government and threats from a section of senior police officers.

 While Indore-based Dr   claims that government has withheld his four increments, Gwalior’s   said that he was threatened by inspector of Jhansi road police station. Both allege that they are under relentless pressure to back down.
 
 Among the first to blow the lid off the scandal was Rai, who was transferred to Dhar from Indore on the excuse that all doctors with the health department were being repatriated to their parent hospital. His wife, who is also a doctor, was transferred to Ujjain. Then, his mother was suspended for no rvalid eason.
 
 “My batchmates have all got their increments, while I am still waiting for mine,” he said and added, “Earlier the BJP had even come out with a booklet that called one Prashant Pandey and me ‘criminals’, although we had been acquitted in a couple of minor cases during our college life.” He said that the central investigating agency should expedite the investigations so that the cases could reach a logical conclusion.
 
 Meanwhile, Chaturvedi alleged that Jhansi road police station chief threatened him with dire consequences ever since he lodged a complaint against the latter in a special court in Gwalior on Friday. “The SHO came to my house in connection with a security matter and threatened me. He said ‘tuje tho thikane laga dunga’,” Chaturvedi alleged and reported the matter to the higher officials.
 
 Chaturvedi had informed the special court on Friday that many more mysterious deaths have taken place during the course of Vyapam investigations but both the CBI and the police were turning a deaf ear to his inputs. He alleged that none of the two were ready to take his information on record. He had also apprised the court regarding some security issues.
 
 Chaturvedi had appeared in court in connection with a case related to Rahul Yadav, a key accused in the  . Rahul is the brother of Deepak, another key accused.
 
 
