HYDERABAD: The   (OU) police has arrested five people, including a city-based advocate and three varsity employees, for creating engineering transcripts through fraudulent means.
Police arrested Sk Saifullah Khaled, 49, an advocate and secretary of   (DJS), G Santhosh Reddy 27, a data entry operator at S3 Softechpvt Ltd in Ramnagar, and T Ramesh, 32, C Aravind Kumar, 30, and M Ramu, 38, all office attenders at the OU examination branch.
 
 On Saturday evening, the OU police received a complaint from M Kumar, controller of examinations, stating that during his surprise check at the electronic data processing section of the examination branch, he noticed a list of transcripts related to issue of BE certificates lying on a table. 
 
 “The complainant verified the applications and found that one application (EN021700093) in the name of Sk Abdullah, son of Sk Mahboob Ali (late DJS founder), bearing roll number 0381-176 BE (Civil Engineering), claiming to have passed with first division in June 1985, was not found in the varsity records,” OU inspector V Ashok Reddy said. 
 
 When the controller of examinations enquired with the engineering section about the application, he found two applications with clear remarks by the department staff stating that the details in applications submitted were fake as no such roll number existed in the BE course database. “The controller of examinations found that the EDP section employees Ramu, Ramesh and Arvind Kumar were preparing forged BE transcripts as per the request of Santhosh Reddy and Saifullah,” the inspector said.
 
 Based on a complaint, the OU police registered a case and arrested the five from their houses on Sunday. Police seized cash, forged transcripts and photocopies of fake BE degree certificates in the name of Saifullah’s brother Sk Abdullah.
 
 Saifullah confessed that his brother Abdullah was working as an engineer at   in Jeddah by furnishing a fake BE certificate. As the employers asked Abdullah to show the original transcripts, he requested Saifullah to obtain them from OU.
 
 Saifullah paid Rs 2 lakh to Santhosh Reddy, who knew the other accused. According to police, Saifullah is an accused in two criminal cases being investigated by the   and the Moghulpura police. “Abdullah’s nephew Naziullah Aqil underwent training in Pakistan to wage a war against India and is absconding,” the inspector said. 
 
