NAGPUR: Yet another case of   has come to fore, with Bajaj Nagar police station registering a complaint against Vivekanand Mahavidyalaya, whose location is unknown. The college allegedly submitted documents of two students not studying there and siphoned off Rs1.40 lakh scholarship fund. Offences were registered against a teacher Umesh Lakhade, the principal, founder and management, said police sub-inspector RK Munde.

 Police officials said this was just a tip of the iceberg in the massive scholarship scam first exposed by TOI on August 10, 2014. It had reported how the social justice and tribal development department distributed a staggering Rs4.34 crore to 2,815 students in 63 of the 250 banned colleges of  , even though students were never enrolled by NU.
 
 The latest complaint was lodged by two students — Vishal Mate and Nikhil Kale — on the directives of the Special Task Force (STF) headed by Nagpur commissioner of police K Venkatesh. The duo had come in touch with the accused lecturer while pursuing ‘Diploma in 3D animation’ run by Mumbai-based   (MSBTE) at Kusumtai Wankhede Vocational Training Institute, North Ambazari Road, in 2010-12.
 
 After the students completed their diploma, Lakhade enticed them with the offer of providing government certificate of ‘Diploma in Computer Hardware’ from Vivekanand Mahavidyalaya, without attending college. He took their original leaving certificate and Std XII mark-sheets, so he could register them for scholarship. He promised to complete all formalities and even pay their fees. Lakhade was to return their original documents after they refunded him the admission amount that would be deposited in their accounts.
 
 On May 6, 2014, Mate received Rs2,070 in his Bank of Maharashtra (BOM) account while Kale got the same amount in his Union Bank account on May 13, 2014. When they contacted Lakhade about their originals, he began to avoid them under one or the other pretext. “We were ready to refund the admission money to get our originals back. But he continued to make false assurances for over a year. Since the last few days, he was unreachable and had even left his job at  . Therefore, we approached the social welfare department to get back our documents,” Mate told TOI.
 
 The department officials also tipped off the STF officials, who told the boys that Rs70,000 each had been transferred by the government to Vivekanand Mahavidyalaya under their names. “It was on the advice of the cops that we lodged a complaint on Saturday, since our documents were misused by Lakhade and college officials. We don’t know where this   is located. Lakhade once told us it was near Nandanvan in Sakkardara,” Mate said.
 
 
