Madurai: Local bodies are crucial to the functioning of the government especially during times of disaster such as the drought situation now, and postponing the elections to the local bodies was against the Constitution, said Panchayat Raj expert G Palanidurai of the Gandhigram Rural University.

 He said that the governments and the political parties lacked knowledge of the Panchayat Raj system, which was the most important part of the federal government system. “It is believed that the federal government means, just the Central and State governments, but this is not true, it includes the local bodies also,’’ he said.
 
 “The 73rd Amendment to the Indian constitution specifies that the new government should be elected and be in place when the term of the old government comes to an end, like how it is done for the Legislative Assembly and the Parliament. Everybody, is speaking about conducting the elections within six months, but this is applicable only if the government was dismissed, and not for a government that went through its entire term like the last one did,” he said.
 
 People believe and political parties have made them believe that local bodies are meant only for maintaining cleanliness, providing drinking water and providing facilities, but actually there is a lot more to it. Running the system under an official is not a good thing, or these officers will be answerable only to their superiors, or their masters while the elected representatives of the panchayats and other local bodies will be directly held responsible by the people, with whom they have direct contact, and only then can good governance be achieved, he said.
 
 Palanidurai said that elected representatives of the local bodies have a great role in the disaster management, and take they can take steps to reduce the vulnerability. Even the recent farmer suicides could have been reduced, if there had been an elected representative in these places. There will be no deliberations when there is no body to administer the local body and just the instructions of the officer in charge would be discharged, he said. “In situations like the prevailing drought conditions when teams assess the situation by visiting the affected places, only a representative of the people will be better informed to talk to the members of the team and appraise them of the situation, otherwise no proper representation can be made,” added Palanidurai.
 
 In the year 2007, when the local body polls was being inordinately postponed by the State government, a person approached the Supreme Court, which ordered the government to conduct the elections immediately, without further procrastination, failing which the court said that it would step in and conduct the elections, and the state conducted it. This is what should be done now, by approaching the court, for the government had not right to keep postponing the elections under some pretext or other, he said.
 
 Many state governments were not in favour of conducting the local body elections, for it would mean that they would have to share their powers with the local bodies, which many political parties, especially the Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu, which were seeking more powers for the state were not ready to give, he added.
 
 
