GUWAHATI: After making significant gains in the  , from zero in 2012 to 21, the BJP is now eyeing other northeastern states like Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram that go to the polls next year. Assam, Arunachal and Nagaland are already under its rule. 

 Even if the saffron party has not been able emerge as the single largest party in Manipur, it has definitely been able to gather confidence and feel optimistic about expanding its base in other parts of the northeast. 
 
 "We started from zero in Manipur. Today we could win 21 seats. This is indeed a significant achievement for us. And this is going to have a far-reaching impact on other northeastern states. Manipur has paved the way for BJP to emerge as an alternative political force in the region," said BJP's northeast organising secretary  .
 
 BJP leaders feel winning 21 seats in Manipur itself was a great achievement given the fact that it failed to win a single seat in 2012. What's significant is that it could win five out of 20 seats in the hill district. These are predominantly Christian constituencies. Saffron leaders feel this is going to send a positive message to other Christian-dominated states in NE.
 
 While the Christian-dominated Meghalaya and Mizoram are ruled by the Congress, Tripura is a Left-ruled state. Though Nagaland is also a Christian-majority state, it is ruled by NDA partner Naga People's Front (NPF). Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura are new pastures for the BJP where the saffron party will have to look for a toehold before the assembly election next year.
 
 "Winning five seats in Christian-dominated Manipur belies the propaganda that the BJP is not accepted by the community. The Manipur election has clearly shown that Christian voters have accepted the BJP as an alternative to the Congress. This achievement is going to help us in a big way in other Christian-majority states," Jamwal said.
 
 Assam became the first state in the region to pave the way for the BJP to come to power. Soon after the Assam polls in 2016, the BJP floated the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a saffron party-led platform of about 11 regional parties, to make NE free of Congress rule. 
 
 Assam chief minister   said BJP put on a good show in Manipur because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special emphasis on the region. He said that under Modi's leadership, the northeast will script a new story of success and development. 
 
 NEDA convener and Assam health minister,  , is one of the strategists entrusted with the task of increasing the BJP's footprints in the region. Sarma, who played a key role, along with BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav for the party's victory in Assam, was also actively involved in the Manipur polls. Earlier, Sarma had said that NEDA is confident of overthrowing the Congress from Meghalaya. 
 
 "If the Assam election opened the door for the BJP in the northeast, the Manipur polls have instilled confidence in us to make our presence felt in other states of the region," said a senior BJP leader.
 
 
