MUMBAI: To catch a glimpse of   in the early 1990s, all you had to do was visit Mama Kane’s Swatcha Upahar Griha. The actor was often seen digging into a plate of tennis-ball-sized batata wadas. Hidden by the flyover next to   station, this low-key   was one of the first in the city to introduce batata wadas. Today, the 107-year-old restaurant is a time bubble with high ceilings, low-hanging fans, old-time seats and reasonable prices.

 “We were always the common man’s hotel,” says Shridhar Kane, co-owner and great-grandson of Narayan Vishnu Kane, the pagri-clad founder who now surveys his legacy from a garlanded portrait.
 
 It was to sell Ganesha idols in Raigad’s Penn that the moustachioed Narayan Kane set out from his village Reel, near Ganpatipule, in 1905. When that business struggled, he hopped over to Bombay and opened a shack in Dadar, not too far from the current location. On February 10, 1910, he launched ‘Dakshini Brahmananche Swatcha Upahar Griha’ (A clean eatery of southern Brahmins). “This was a reference to our roots in Konkan,” says Shridhar. The 40-seater would serve tea, coffee, upma, poha, sheera and thalipeeth—prepared by Kane’s wife and sister---to labourers, mill workers and flower vendors.
 
 Word soon spread about the tasty snacks sold by the man kids fondly called “Mama Kane”. So in 1928, when Kane moved the eatery to the ground floor of Smruti Kunj building, he renamed it ‘Mama Kane's Swatcha Upahar Griha’. The expanded menu included a thali along with the soon-to-be famous batata  , sold for one anna per wada. “It was my great-grandfather's own recipe and we ensure that we follow the same technique till today,” says Shridhar. A plate of two wadas and two chutneys sells at Rs 40.
 
 Over the years, the place has attracted prominent Maharashtrians including author P L Deshpande, singer Sudhir Phadke and politician Manohar Joshi. In the ‘70s, then prime minister Indira Gandhi sent her driver to pick up some wadas, recalls Shridhar. Interestingly, during World War II, when many businessmen moved out of the city,   remained open. The family story has it that British soldiers ate here too. 
 
 In the 1990s, the 150-seater restaurant shrank to 50 seats due to manpower shortages, and the owners rented out part of the premises for corporate workshops. More recently, the Kane family—which lives in a building on Ranade Road known as the Kane building—is seeing a change in client profile. They now have health-conscious corporate professionals coming in from Parel for lunch, so the restaurant now serves fresh juices like lemon, kokam and kairi (panhe).
 
 Indeed, customer demand has continually driven change in the menu. South Indian fare was added in the 1990s. Their summer special ‘aamras’, made from alphonsos, sells like hot cakes. And recently, Mama Kane brought in a ‘toast wada sandwich’—the Kane wada inside burger buns. “We are figuring out how to improve it," says Shridhar. They also plan to introduce a ‘diet thali’.
 
 But the traditions aren’t forgotten. Shridhar is now setting up a website which will have a written account of the restaurant’s history and customer anecdotes about the old days. Nana Patekar may feature. 
 
