GURUGRAM: The   in Haryana has touched the 950 mark for the first time in the its history. 

 The state, which is notorious for its skewed  , reached the milestone in March this year. This was announced by the state government on Friday. The overall sex ratio of the state, averaged for the first three months of the year, is 935. 
 
 But the sorry state of Gurgaon district continues. The district may have fared better than last year, touching the 891 mark, but has dipped further in ranking, compared to last year, moving down by one place. 
 
 The sex ratio at birth in the state had crossed the 900 mark in 2016 for the first time, for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the   for reaching the milestone. Significantly, while everybody is aware about the factors that has improved the sex ratio of the state, knives are still out to determine the sorry state of sex ratio of Gurgaon. 
 
 In 2016, Gurgaon was ranked 18 out of total 21 districts in Haryana and reported a sex ratio of 883. Fortunately, the numbers have improved since then, and the district reported the birth of 891 girls per thousand boys between January and March 2017. 
 
 However, despite the high numbers, Gurgaon continues to under perform when compared to other districts in the state. In the ranking too, Gurgaon has slipped one place to 19 and continues to languish at the bottom of the table, which shows that other districts continues to outshine the Millennium City. 
 
 Even neighboring Mewat, which is the most backward district in the state, has reported a better sex ratio both — last year as well as this year. In 2016, Mewat reported a sex ratio of 912, and in the first trimester of 2017, it has jumped to 927.
 
 Experts believe awareness through the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign, raids at the   and action against female foeticide have helped improve the situation in the state. Notably, more than 430 FIRs have been lodged in the state under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques ( ) Act and The Medical Termination Of Pregnancy (MTP) Act during the past two years. Out of these, more than 80 FIRs have been registered after inter-state raids in the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Punjab. Apart from these, more than 50 cases of Sex Selection Drugs (SSDs), which were being sold by unscrupulous elements promising male child, were also detected.
 
 In Gurgaon, the PNDT committee has conducted 20 raids since June 2015, and 60 people have been booked under PC-PNDT Act and  .
 
 “The problem is that travelling between Gurgaon and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh or Rajasthan is easy. A lot of touts operate between Gurgaon and these states without being detected, making it difficult to nab them and bust clinics involved in sex determination tests. That has affected our ranking and we hope to overcome this problem soon. However, whatever raids we have conducted, all of them have been successful,” said Shyam Sunder, secretary, Red Cross, Gurgaon chapter.
 
 Dr Manasi Mishra, head of research and knowledge management at Centre for Social Research, has been working in Gurgaon for the past two years. Mishra has observed that while the labour and rural sector is often considered to be a reason for the gender bias, the cosmopolitan educated class is also involved in the social evil. “This district has a literacy rate of 84%, still the sex ratio hasn’t improved. The reason being that both the parents are working and they want a single child. So, this single child is preferred to be a boy due to the same old lineage issue,” said Dr Mishra.
 
 
