Visakhapatnam: Simhachalam temple turned fortress on the occasion of   as nearly 2,000 police personnel looked after the security in and around the temple. All the rituals were carried out without any glitch.

 Various hospitals from Visakhapatnam and Vizianagram set up medical camps to ensure that the sick and elderly devotees were attended too and more than 60 NGOs helped provided the devotees with free food, water and butter milk. Organisations such as the Hare Krishna Movement and Akshaya Patra Foundation distributed ‘Panakam’ to devotees throughout the day.
 
 The biggest festive event in north coastal AP was also conducted in a clean manner. The people were asked not to litter the temple premises and more importantly, waste disposal was done in a speedy manner. 
 
 People from far flung places such as Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh were present for the early morning darshan. P Visu, a native of Jagdalpur and a Telugu by origin, said, “This is my fourth time at Simhachalam temple to attend Chandanotsavam. It is on this day that the old sandalwood paste is removed and one gets a glimpse of Lord Varaha Narsimha Swami in his true avatar.” On this auspicious occasion, every little detail is looked into by the organisers and they made sure that devotees were taken care of in the right manner. Scouts were appointed to guide devotees to the ticket counters and discipline was stressed upon. Keeping security in mind, 75 CCTV cameras were installed in and around the temple.”
 
 HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao who was personally involved in supervising the arrangements, said, “This time the temple authorities were clear in their instructions regarding VIP passes and their darshan. We have ensured that general public are given priority and only those who are entitled to passes as per protocol and as honored guests of the trustees and temple were given accordance. The volume of VIP passes has been reduced drastically.”
 
 P Koteswara Rao, a volunteer from Vizianagaram, said, “ Our Raja Saheb wanted to ensure that proper nourishment was provided to the devotees and we made sure that the devotees were given everything they needed. The devotees themselves were quite happy regarding the arrangements and the lack of confusion on hill top. This year we had few vehicles parked on the hill top. The reason was the limited number of VIPs.” 
 
 
