Vadodara: If things go as planned, the ancient seat of learning Vallabhi University that had flourished as world renowned Buddhist learning centre during the Maitraka Empire will be revived in Gujarat. 

 A proposal to set up Vallabhi University in the state is being considered by the central government. Experts, spiritual leaders and Buddhist scholars from eight countries discussed reviving the ancient Vidyapith that existed between 600 CE and 1200 CE during the second international Buddhist conference that concluded in Vadodara on Saturday.
 
 “Famous Chinese Buddhist monk, scholar and traveller master Xuanzang who had visited Vallabhi in seventh century had described the university as at par with the Buddhist monastic centre Nalanda,” said Bhante Prashil Ratna. Founder president of Sangha Kaya Foundation, which has moved the proposal with the centre. 
 
 “We are seeking support from the central government and we have already started communication with the Ministry of Culture. Presently, the Ministry of Culture runs six Buddhist universities in the country including that at Leh, Himachal Pradesh and Gaya among others. But there is no Buddhist university in western, central or southern part of India,” he said. 
 
 For reviving the ancient university, the foundation is also in touch with officials of Nav Nalanda University. 
 
 “We are taking advice from their chancellor, vice-chancellor and director. Vallabhi University was located in Vallabhipur near Bhavnagar in Saurashtra. It is important to revive this university as Gujarat was an important hub of Buddhism and also part of the ‘Silk Route’ – that carried the message of world peace from Ashoka,” he said. 
 
 To promote Buddhist circuit and tourism in Gujarat, experts also suggested that the central and the state government should make efforts to start a direct flight from Dhaka to Gujarat so that pilgrims and tourists can easily visit Devni Mori, Junagadh, Vadnagar which are jewels of the crown of Buddhism in Gujarat. 
 
 “We are overjoyed as Gujarat government has decided to allot 100 acres of land in Devni Mori for building Buddhist monastery and Buddha park in the state,” said Mithila Chowdhury, joint secretary general of the World Alliance of Buddhists (WAB) whose representatives had recently met Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. 
 
 “In order to promote Buddhist circuit in Gujarat, it is essential that there are direct flights from places like Dhaka for the ease of travellers.” 
 
 
