GURUGRAM: Pet owners in   Estate, an upscale society in  , are up in arms against the RWA, which has stopped the entry of pets into the society’s  . 

 Pet owners say the rule is unfair but the RWA maintains parks are not meant to walk dogs.
 
 There are 12 parks in the society, one in each block and pets are not allowed in any of these parks. 
 
 “The RWA has put up notices in all the parks, saying ‘no pets allowed’, and despite our repeated attempts at communication, the association is not letting pets enter even a single park,” says Ritu Bagai, a recruitment consultant who has two dogs.
 
 She says taking dogs outside the society for a walk is both inconvenient and unsafe, especially when she is travelling and her 80-year-old father has to walk the pets. Other residents in the society agree with Ritu, saying all they are asking for is just one designated park for their pets.
 
 “For a long time, we have been asking for a park designated for pets so that we do not have the trouble taking them for a walk. But there has been no response from the RWA yet,” says Sukesh Malhotra, another pet owner.
 
 Residents also allege a few RWA members are inflicting cruelty on the stray dogs in the area. “I generally feed the strays in our locality. Sometime back I noticed that someone had damaged and thrown around the dish I used for feeding the dogs,” says Sheila Sarkar, another pet-owning resident who works as a director with a telecom company. “There is a lot of animosity towards dogs, especially the strays in the area,” says Sonia Khanna, an animal rights activist living in the society.
 
 The residents recently held a campaign in the society to create awareness about dogs among residents, in association with the local police and the  , “but unfortunately it did not yield much result”.
 
 When contacted, RWA president Sanjay Batra told TOI, “A lot of the pets are ferocious and pose a danger to the society’s children and the elderly. Why can’t the residents just take their pets outside for a walk. We cannot designate a park for the pets. However, anyone who has a problem with the arrangement is free to approach the court.”
 
 But Bagai says, “We have a copy of the Punjab and Haryana high court order that says the RWAs cannot stop pets from entering the common areas.”
 
 
