MUMBAI: A mob of around 150 youths assaulted policemen and set ablaze a police vehicle outside   in the eastern suburbs at Saturday midnight after a local resident allegedly posted a   that was  .

 Two minors were injured when police used lathis and fired tear gas and plastic bullets to disperse protesters outside the police station, 300 metres from the  . 
 
 Police have arrested 17 protesters, including All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen corporator Shahnawaz Hussain and two minors, for rioting and attempt to murder. The man who posted the photo was also held, after which the protesters dispersed. 
 
 Trouble started around 11 pm when residents of Cheeta Camp saw the morphed photo on the Facebook page of Arvind Chinva, a local. As news spread among the locals, a group gathered outside Trombay police station demanding Chinva’s arrest.
 
 Police said Chinva, who stays with his family and relatives in Cheeta Camp, morphed a photo of the religious site on his mobile phone and posted it on his Facebook page. 
 
 Even as police personnel were trying to calm down the protestors, they went on a rampage. “The mob attacked police personnel and was demanding that Chinva be handed over to them,” said a police officer.
 
 However, local residents said procrastination by the police exacerbated the situation. “As police were delaying the arrest of Chinva, the youngsters started pelting stones, set a vehicle on fire, smashed glasses of some vehicles and assaulted police personnel,” said a local resident. 
 
 Deven Bharti, joint commissioner of police (Law and Order), said police detained Chinva soon after they received information about the issue. “We deployed police force and released tear gas to control the mob. The situation was brought under control shortly,” Bharti said, adding that police handled the case tactfully and soon restored normalcy. 
 
 Police also fired six rounds of plastic bullet, wounding two minors—Ayyub Shaikh, 16, and Usman Shaikh, 16— who were part of the protest. Ayyub was wounded in the stomach while Usman was hit by a bullet in his thigh.
 
 Usman’s family members who gathered outside the police station on Sunday afternoon said he had gone to the protest site only to see what was happening after hearing about a crowd having gathered there. “He was standing there when a bullet hit him,” said a family member. 
 
 Among the 17 protesters arrested, the AIMIM corporator has been booked for inciting the mob and attacking police personnel. He already faces four criminal cases, including two related to violence. On Sunday, they were produced before the Dadar holiday court, which sent them to police custody till March 24. 
 
 AIMIM MLA Warish Pathan, who is also an advocate, said he visited the families of the arrested persons and assured them legal support. “Shahnawaz Hussain was picked up from his home and falsely implicated in the case due to political rivalry. The burning of police vehicles is deplorable and police must arrest the actual perpetrators. A high-level inquiry must be conducted,” Pathan said, adding he will raise the issue in the assembly. 
 
 Meanwhile, Chinva was also produced before a court, which remanded him in police custody till March 23. Chinva has been arrested under IPC sections 295A which applies to “deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings” and 153A which is invoked for “promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony”. His mobile phone has been seized and will be sent for analysis. 
 
 
