No one could have imagined   in better ‘spirits’ than in her second production, ' '. It was equally unimaginable for a ghost to appear pleasant, be well put together and vanish with a trail of golden dust. The actress nails it both, with her brother   by her side. 'Phillauri' is a set of two love stories, set in different time zones, connected by a happy spirit.
 Anushka and Karnesh, who were clear they’d only back good content, have put their faith in first-time director Anshai Lal, debutant composer Shashwat Sachdev and new-on- the-screenplay-scene,  , who has previously written dialogue and lyrics.  , who worked on the costumes of 'Jolly LLB 2', designed the distinct looks of the characters in the two eras. 
 
 Here’s what the team had to say about their experience of putting the film together: 
 
 Anshai Lal: As a debutant filmmaker, Anshai believes that his work got better while directing experienced actors like Anushka and Diljit Dosanjh. He reminisces, “They helped me get my groove. Shooting was hectic, but we had a young and enthusiastic crew, which helped me complete the film in just 60 days. Karnesh and Anushka are involved, but they also let you be.” 
 
 Shashwat Sachdev: For a newbie, Shashwat’s tunes sound pretty mature and distinct. The composer says, “Anushka could have pulled in any composer, but she gave me a chance and involved me right from the pre-production stage. While Anshai has knitted my songs neatly into the story, Diljit paaji has taken them to another level. I couldn’t have asked for better.” 
 
 Veera Kapur: The looks of both Diljit and Anushka in the film have been appreciated. Veera recalls, “Shashi (Anushka) is the most interesting character I’ve ever styled. We have used muted subtle colours for her. In those times, women wore heavy silver jewelry, which has also been incorporated in her look. For Diljit, Anshai had amazing ideas on the head gears. We even added a silver brooch to add a touch of detailing to his turbans.” 
 
 Anvita Dutt: This is the lyric writer’s first film as a full-time story-teller. “'Phillauri' is driven by music. Since I had written the film, I knew where the songs would come in and so, penning them became a lot more fun. As for the story, we knew that we were not making an eerie film. It was a happy entertainer,” she says. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
