LUCKNOW: Mayawati’s resignation from   may well be a masterstroke by the Bahujan Samaj Party ( ) president, paving her way back into   and infusing fresh lease of life into her moribund party following two bad electoral losses.

 Political observers see this as a major political gamble, after the social engineering in 2007 when she brought together Dalits and Brahmins, which paid rich dividends by bringing her back to power with a historic mandate of 206 seats.
 
 This time, when   resigned in a dramatic and unexpected manner, raising the issue of alleged atrocities on Dalits, Muslims and other weaker sections in Uttar Pradesh, observers say it is a well thought out move to re-emerge as the undisputed Dalit leader taking on the BJP gameplan of wooing Dalits by having a Dalit President in Ram Nath Govind.
 
 Before raising her voice on issues of atrocities on Dalits, Mayawati in the same spirited manner also drew attention to the massacre of five Brahmins in Rae Bareli. The killings had united the entire Opposition -- BSP, SP and the Congress. The BSP had staged a protest and also raised the issue in the state Assembly and Legislative Council.
 
 Political observers also feel that Mayawati may not have resigned in a fit of rage for being denied a chance to speak on the issue of atrocities on weaker sections, and that it was an outcome of a well-calculated move.
 
 Political circles are agog with speculations about the possibility of Mayawati challenging chief minister, Aditya Nath   in his forte Gorakhpur once he resigns from his Lok Sabha seat Gorakhpur and contests from an Assembly constituency.
 
 Mayawati chose to resign immediately after voting for the Presidential elections and two parliamentary constituencies – that of Yogi and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya – will be up for by-elections soon.
 
 There is no official confirmation on whether Mayawati will contest or not, but her resignation definitely marks her return to electoral politics and her intention to give more time to her party which has been on a downslide since 2012 and lost four elections in the last five years – 2009 and 2014 LS polls and 2012 and 2017 Assembly. She lost 2017 so badly that she faced near extinction, though she managed to retain her core constituency of Dalit votes of about 23 per cent. Observers say that is what gives her strength hope for the 2019 parliament and then 2022 assembly polls.
 
 Mayawati has not contested any election in the last 15 years and has been a member of lower house whether in Parliament or UP House. When she was UP chief minister, she was member of the Legislative Council and at present, a Rajya Sabha member which was to expire in April 18 next year.
 
 
