Jaipur: Rathodon Ki Dhaani village in Ajmer is threatened with forceful eviction. Large tracts near the village have been acquired for the Kishangarh airport, 27 km from Ajmer and about 100 km from Jaipur. Construction of a portion of the boundary wall, however, is blocked as villagers say they will not move unless given fair compensation. The administration has now threatened to sever electricity connections. Since 2015, the matter is in the high court. Villagers have sought hearings on an urgent basis. 

 “We met former chief secretaries C K Mathew and C S Rajan. Our meeting with current chief secretary OP Meena was on February 8 this year – he promised to look into our demands. Now, Ajmer collector Gaurav Goyal says the village will soon be cleared,” Pratap Singh Rathore, a resident of Rathodon Ki Dhani told TOI. 
 
 Collector Goyal said, “Nearly 95% of the work on this large infrastructure project of the Government of India is now complete. What remains is only 5%. We are trying our best to get these villagers to move. Nearly 1,000 acres were acquired for this airport. We understand that relocation is hard, we are negotiating with the villagers.” It was earlier estimated that the airport would be operational by July this year.
 
 Kavita Srivastava of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties says the matter will go right up to the Supreme Court, if necessary. “The villagers have been deceived. The earliest notification of August 4, 2011 appeared in a Sindhi paper, ‘Adhunik Rajasthan’ that no one has heard of, far from read. Most villagers only got to know once the compensation award was moved to the treasury by December 2012. At that point, the villagers ceased to be owners of the land. Not knowing that accepting the money would mean dispossession, villagers accepted compensation. Later, in 2013, after they sat on dharna, the villagers were promised that the compensation would be six times the rate fixed by the District Land Committee. That demand has not been met. Those with agricultural land were compensated, but their homes were declared ‘encroachments’ – the village has existed for about 700 years! It is water from the pond here that has for centuries been quenching the thirst of Kishangarh!”
 
 Villagers have sat on hunger strike several times, seeking that the government offer them proper compensation – many of them have cattle, and the government has only offered 177 gaj (one gaj is about three feet) within the limits of the Nagar Nigam to each family. Earlier, they were promised 250 gaj per family. Seventeen single youth in Rathodon Ki Dhaani were promised compensation, but this promise was not met. Many women in the village are milkwomen – the land offered in compensation would not allow them to raise cattle. Besides, no provision has been made for a temple, for the nearly 50 children whose school was shut two years ago and the anganwadi in the area which too was closed.
 
 “Each time we protested, the government and its functionaries – even our local MLA, would step in and offer us assurances. Those assurances are just wind,” a villager told TOI. Villagers say even the sum of Rs1,26,500 per bigha (in Rajasthan, a bigha is a little over 1,600 sq metres) earlier agreed upon as compensation was much reduced. 
 
 “I cannot sleep peacefully anymore. If we do not get enough land for our cattle and if we cannot get access to pasture lands, what will we do? I have reasoned with the people who were sent to disconnect our electricity connections. They were kind, and they listened to us this time. They even said they would disconnect connections to pumps that draw water from wells outside the area demarcated for acquisition. How can we allow that?” Pratap Singh asked. “In three years, there have been 13 deaths from shock.” 
 
 Charter of demands:
 
 1. Government must provide fair compensation and rehabilitation. In a recent judgment, the Supreme Court told the government to pay Rs60 lakh to each of the 681 families in Madhya Pradesh that did not receive money to buy land after losing their holdings to the Sardar Sarovar project.
 
 2. The government had earlier promised to pay six times the District Land Committee rate for the acquired land; this promise must be kept.
 
 3. Villagers have not been compensated for homes lost as they do not hold legal titles to the land. However, the village is over 700 years old and predates the nearby city of Kishangarh. What land was offered as compensation was a pit, about eight to 11 feet deep. Of the 30 people who got possession of the land that was offered to them, only 12 have either constructed homes or got land levelled – the vast majority will be homeless if construction of airport continues.
 
 4. Many milkwomen can be allowed to continue to tend to their cattle if provision is made for the cows. In Jaipur, when the JDA decided to relocate dairies, these were moved to the outskirts of the city and provision was made for those making their livelihood this way. Why cannot it happen again?
 
 Not all families affected were land-owning ones. Many were raising cattle and selling milk for a living. These families too should receive fair compensation.
 
 
