KOTTAYAM: For the first time in the history of Church in the state, a joint movement of independent progressive women from various churches in Kerala including  , Protestant and Eastern Churches was inaugurated at a function here on Saturday. 

 In the historically relevant meeting held at the CSI Retreat Centre, the Kerala unit of the Indian Christian Women’s Movement (ICWM) was launched.
 
 The forum intends to bring together an ecumenical group of   under the banner ‘Women’s Lives Matter’. The purpose is not creating another organization in society but to form a consensus across boundaries in order to change unjust beliefs, practices and structures that perpetuate   and accentuate the exploitation of women in the churches and in society at various levels.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, writer and social activist S Saradakkutty questioned the unjust patriarchal systems and asserted the power of women joining hands to create a new social order. 
 
 Though the ICWM was launched in Pune in 2014, till now the Catholics were not part of this. 
 
 "First time the Catholics women are becoming part of the movement," said Kochurani Abraham, a Catholic who is the coordinator of the Kottayam meeting. Kochurani, who is a feminist theologian said that the movement also aims at involving women more in the important activities of the church like policy making.
 
 Though the movement has not taken an open stand against the male domination in Churches, the forum is keen to take up such issues in future. Though Pope Francis had changed the rules for the church’s traditional foot-washing ceremony on Holy Thursday, issuing a decree allowing women to participate, not all the churches in Kerala has shown the willingness to follow that. Except for Latin church which made it optional and some Bishops, the rest have refused to accept the Pope's call. 
 
 Also issues like not allowing entry for women for the night sessions in Maramon convention will also come up before the Forum.
 
 Susan Thomas, President of CSI women's fellowship, said that the Forum has been formed neither with the support nor with the blessings of the church. "This is an independent one. In future I don’t know how it will shape up," said Susan.
 
 Omana Mathew, Chairperson of Kerala Council of Churches (KCC) women's commission said that one aspect that triggered the formation of such a forum was the safety issues faced by women. Omana who belongs to the Mar Thoma church also said that issues like discrimination of women in the church and denial of personality development of women are also some other factors.
 
 Jaisy Karingattil, Vice President of the KCC, said that the efforts for the formation of the forum began over six months back. 'There was discrimination for women in many churches. But now it’s changing. The Orthodox church has now started allowing voting rights for women at Parish level," said Daisy who belongs to Orthodox Church.
 
 In Kerala, the movement will be coordinated by Kochurani Abraham. Shanthi Mathai will be the secretary and Jaisy Karingattil, the treasurer. Other coordinating members include  ,  ,   and Omana Mathew.
 
