Panaji: Sunday marked the beginning of the new tourist season in Goa, with the first   flight arriving from Moscow at the   at Dabolim. 

 A total of 519 tourists from   landed by the charter. This number is up from the 492 that arrived by the first charter last year.
 
 Goa Tourism officials said that while there was a dip in charter arrivals due to recession and geo-political scenario across the globe, the year 2016-17 saw a surge in arrival of charters and passengers and this year Goa Tourism is optimistic and confident of crossing the 1,000 mark of charter flights. 
 
 Biblio Globus in association with Concord Exotic Voyages (P) Ltd brought the first charter flight of the 2017-18 tourist season. The passengers arrived on board Rossiya Airlines, which landed at Goa airport at 8.30am.
 
 Goa Tourism welcomed the charter passengers on arrival at the airport with a brass band and presented all passengers with roses and sweets.
 
 Goa Tourism officials said that the state is expecting a good charter season this year and is taking all necessary steps to clear hurdles at the airport with related to landings and slots for charters.
 
 Goa’s tourism minister Manohar Azgaonkar said, ''It’s a flying start for the new tourism season. I received an overwhelming response from tour operators when I was in Moscow last month and both Goa Tourism and the Russian travel and tour operators had very fruitful discussions and business interactions which will have positive results for Goa this season.”
 
 Ajgaonkar also said that Goa Tourism is very serious about ensuring the safety and security of all its tourists. “I appeal to all our foreign and domestic guests to enjoy responsibly and to follow the laws of the land and all the DOs and DONTs to avoid risking or endangering their lives. Goa police, lifeguards and locals serve as our ambassadors and one needs to pay heed to them at times in addition to following signboards, warning notices and whatever awareness is created in the interest of tourists.”
 
 
