PUNE: Five people from Virar in Mumbai were killed and five others were injured when their car skidded on diesel spilt by a luxury bus and crashed into the stationary bus in the Kamshet tunnel on the   expressway around 3.30pm on Sunday.

 The accident disrupted traffic on the expressway for more than two hours. It was the second disruption within a matter of eight hours after a truck had rammed into a crane near the same spot around 7.45am. The truck driver and cleaner had sustained minor injuries in the accident.
 
 The deceased car occupants were identified as Dattatraya Deshmukh (63), his wife   (60),   (40), her sister Shraddha (19) and the driver Deepak Wagasiya. The injured were Sanjay Patil (15), Rupesh Deshmukh (34), Om Deshmukh (2), Rupali Deshmukh (28) and Rahul Deshmukh (34). The police said all of them were returning to Virar after visiting the Jejuri temple near Pune. 
 
 Police said both the luxury bus and the car were headed towards Mumbai. The bus driver realized that his vehicle was not accelerating optimally and asked the cleaner to check.However, he soon halted the bus in the tunnel itself on discovering that the fuel pipe had sprung a leak and with passengers spotting flames at the rear of the vehicle. The car, which was speeding behind the bus, applied the brakes but skidded on the spillage and rammed into the bus.
 
 The expressway authorities and   (HSP) teams rushed to the spot and found the car driver trapped in his seat. The teams rushed the injured persons to private hospitals at   and Nigdi. The authorities covered the spillage area on the road with sand.
 
 Kamshet police said two of the five car occupants died on the spot while two others died while taking treatment at a private hospital in Nigdi. The car driver succumbed to his injuries at the other hospital at Somatane Phata. Police said two of the injured are critical.
 
 In the morning, traffic going towards Mumbai came to standstill for about an hour after the truck lost control and rammed into the slow-moving crane. The truck driver and cleaner were taken to hospital with minor wounds.
 
 The accident resulted in long queues of vehicles at the spot. According to the HSP , the authorities decided to halt vehicular movement on the Mumbai corridor after the accident as the expressway does not have diversions at the spot. A heavy duty crane took around 30 minutes to remove the wrecked truck from the spot.
 
 The truck was carrying a consignment of eggs, much of which spilt onto the road. After removing the truck wreckage, the HSP officials summoned a water tanker to wash the road clean of the spilt eggs as it could have resulted in vehicles skidding.
 
 HSP authorities said traffic was diverted towards Somatane Phata from Kiwale Phata in the morning. However, motorists did not listen to the police and preferred to travel on the expressway . Police said many motorists were heading towards Lonavla while others were going to Mumbai.
 
