MUMBAI: Friday, February 3 was the last day to file nominations to the upcoming  . A burst of colour, sound and mock fury unfolded outside nomination centres as candidates arrived with full party paraphernalia in tow. The end of the 'yuti' alliance seemed to bring more excitement to the scene as the Sena and BJP both contested in strength.

 A total number of 8,041 aspirants registered their applications on the  . However, the next step was to download and submit these notarized applications to the election office, and this only 2,718 managed to do. The number is slightly higher than 2012 when 2,232 candida tes had contested the civic election. Of course the final number of candidates will be clear once applications are scrutinised. The maximum number of nominations submitted to the returning officer is from M-East ward, located on the north-eastern edge of Mumbai, is quite literally the zone the municipality forgot. It covers Chembur (E), Deonar, Anushakti Nagar, Govandi, Trombay and Mankhurd. It has among the highest slum populations in the city. 186 candidates are in the fray to contest the election. With over 72.5% of its population living in slums. It was ranked the lowest in human development among the city's 24 wards in the Mumbai Human Development Report 2009. Andheri Sports Complex was the hub of nominations to 13 electoral wards in K West. Bigwigs like Sena's Shailesh Phanse and Jaywant Parab and BJP's Ameet Satam arrived to cheer candidates. Former allies now foes, each said his party would score a majority . There was no identity crisis as supporters of rival parties dressed in saffron saris, green jackets or blue turbans shouted slogans in the streets, bringing traffic to a crawl. Noise levels rent the sky but this was no day for decibel meters to venture near.
 
 One of the civic officers on election duty at   in Bandra said that till Thursday hardly any candidates filed nominations. “With most parties having announced the names at the last minute the maximum number of forms were filed on Friday,“ said an official. Candidates contesting for H West and K East wards were allotted this nomination centre. H West encompasses Bandra, Khar and Santa Cruz while K East includes Vile Parle.
 
 In Bandra, two sitting Congress corporators Asif Zakaria and Karen D'mello swapped wards owing to reservation. Zakaria who is now a corporator from Pali Hill and Union Park will contest from Perry Road where Karen D'mello is the sitting corporator. Another corporator from H west who filed her nomination was deputy mayor Alka Kerkar (BJP).
 
 From K East one saw corporator Jyoti Alavani (BJP) come to fill her nomination for the Vile Parle she represents now in the civic body.
 
 (Inputs: Vijay V Singh, Bhavika Jain, Richa Pinto, Somit Sen, Sujit Mahamulkar and Bella Jaisinghani)
 
