CHENNAI: In an indication that   could swing toward the  , a number of State Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) professors have started a quiet exercise — sitting with Class XI and Class XII textbooks of the state board as well as NCERT, noting down differences in the   content.

 A number of professors drop into the secretariat daily to examine the contents of science texts (especially botany, zoology and chemistry), chapter by chapter, and compare the content.
 
 The education department appears to have started work to equip students for a higher standard of syllabus, which could play a key role in helping students crack competitive exams, especially  , which is NCERT-based, educationists say.
 
 While a new syllabus model is likely for Tamil Nadu in a decade, it’s currently unclear if the state will modify existing texts or fully transform them. Officials said they are planning a “unique model” for the state board.
 
 Teachers say there are many differences between the two sets of texts. State board texts are subject-oriented while   books are application-oriented, teachers say. For example, the state Class XI biology text introduces students to concepts of anatomy while Class XII deals with physiology. NCERT texts look at various systems and their functions right from Class XI. Teachers also find big differences in the texts on concepts relating to genetics.
 
 Officials for now are focusing on differences at the higher secondary level, but they have not let on if they plan to extend this to lower classes. Educationists have raised the question of the state training teachers in application-oriented concepts. Department officials say they will reorient teachers according to changes brought in.
 
 “Incorporation of the NCERT syllabus has long been overdue and would only strengthen the state board,” Change India director Paadam Narayanan says. “But any change in syllabus has to be gradual and start at least from Class VIII so students can adapt to the higher levels of difficulty by the time they reach high school.”
 
 
