Gurgaon: Taps started running dry in major parts of the city on Sunday as   suspended water   for shifting a   from   to pave the way for an   on NH-8. 

 The move affected nearly 1.2 lakh residents, most of whom, especially those living in plotted houses, have to depend on   till supply resumes. The worst-hit areas include DLF phases 1-4, Sushant Lok 1 and 3 and sectors 27, 28, 30, 31, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45 and some parts of 46. Residents claimed they did not receive a drop of water in the past 24 hours.
 
 “There is no water since Saturday. Thankfully, we have an underground tank, which has helped us manage so far. However, the stored water will get exhausted soon. I asked my maid to not wash clothes today,” said Sudha Aggarwal, a resident of DLF-3.
 
 Though Huda officials claimed the supply would be restored by Monday evening, sources said residents of these areas could be staring at a bigger crisis as it might take up to three more days to shift the pipeline and start normal supply. 
 
 What has irked residents most is that Huda did not bother to warn them before snapping the supply and allow them time to prepare for the imminent crisis. It was RWAs that informed residents about the interruption in supply when Huda failed to provide water on Saturday evening.
 
 While many people survived on stored water, others had to bank on   and packaged drinking water in the day. But, according to residents, the stored water won’t last next 24 hours. 
 
 People living in Huda sectors were more helplessness. “While residents in DLF and Sushant Lok areas at least have an option to store water, we are totally dependent on direct supply. I don’t have any storage facility. I am making do with supplies from tankers. For drinking, I am buying packaged water. Authorities didn’t even inform us about the interruption in advance,” said Ankur, an IT professional who lives in Sector 28.
 
 “We got the news from RWA. No intimation was given by the development authority… it is extremely unprofessional. From Monday, all need to go to work. How are we supposed to manage? And why should we pay Huda for water, when we have to dependent on tankers?” asked a livid Shikha, a resident of Sector 27.
 
 When contacted, a senior official said: “We are in the process of shifting a pipeline from Iffco Chowk as the construction of an underpass is going on there. It will not take more than a day to resume normal supply.”
 
 Despite repeated calls and messages, Huda administrator Yaspal Yadav remained unavailable for any comment.
 
 
