KOLKATA:  , an ISC candidate from Our Lady Queen of the  , is miffed with the CBSE reverting to moderation of marks following the Delhi high court order. She feels tweaking of marks will put   at a disadvantage, given the high cut-offs for admission.

 “ISC and CBSE candidates face a stiff competition when compared to students from other state boards like the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council. Giving grace marks to CBSE students will make things difficult for us. I want to study journalism and I am afraid if CBSE continues with marks moderation it will take away my possibility to find a good college,” says Trisha.
 
 Debadrita Majumdar, an HS candidate from  , shares Trisha’s concern. “It was the CBSE that led 32 other boards to do away with moderation. But now the CBSE’s retaining moderation will make things difficult for us. CBSE students will have an edge over others,” says Debadrita. Candidates from boards other than CBSE want colleges to take note and lower the admission cut-offs for them.
 
 However, all of them agree that they are better placed than candidates from other state boards such as Punjab and Haryana that have already published results without moderation. The West Bengal Higher Secondary Council is yet to come out with the HS results.
 
 Caught in the dilemma, principals of CBSE-affiliated schools are saying that moderation of marks is not an usual procedure. “It is not a given in our schools. The board decides on moderation based on reports from principals and head examiners on the day of the examination. They have to submit a report on each paper in a prescribed format, suggesting moderation in case there is a high level of disparity between sets of questions distributed in different examination centres. They can also suggest it if there is a wrong question set,” said Birla High School principal Mukta Jain.
 
 The moderation of marks varies between 5 and 15 marks. But this is not a norm. Head examiners say there was no direction for moderation this year. “We have been asked to correct scripts leniently. Even earlier, when the board decided to give grace marks, below average students have been the gainers. Students getting 94 or 96 marks in a paper got the minimum benefit,” a CBSE head examiner said. 
 
 Principals of schools affiliated to the ICSE echoed them. “The council decides on marks moderation after doing a data analysis of the upper and lower percentiles over the last three years. Once decided, a student is given a maximum of 10 marks. The weightage of grace marks a student can get in the scale of eight to 10 is decided and fed in the software. There is no scope for manual intervention,” a school principal said. 
 
 The WBHSC refuses to have adopted such tweaking of marks. “We don’t have any such process. We do it on rare occasions based on the feedback from experts. It happens when a wrong question has been set. Head examiners are asked to give full credit to candidates who have attempted the wrong question. Otherwise, we have two rules. Either we do it by switching the subject in which a student fails to obtain the pass mark with the additional subject in which he has passed. Or, a student is awarded a maximum five marks to pass in a subject from the marks he obtained in excess of the pass mark in another subject,” a WBHSC official said. 
 
