PORVORIM: In the February 4 state assembly election, Bharatiya Janta Party candidate Gurudas Pawaskar threatens to spoil sitting   Rohan Khaunte’s tryst with history. 

 Khaunte is eyeing the opportunity to script history in Goan politics by being the first independent candidate to get re-elected from the same constituency as an independent candidate.
 
 The fastest-growing region in Goa today, Porvorim is an urban outgrowth of Panaji, the state capital. Porvorim is also where the government is run from.
 
  Porvorim is an amalgamation of three panchayats:  ,  . While the plateau boasts of several hospitals, a full-fledged mall with a multiplex, a handful of resorts and an equal number of educational institutions, the valley areas still retain their quaint village outlook. The landscape is slowly changing with buildings and residential complexes coming up mostly in Socorro, which has not gone down well with locals. The constituency also has a big cover of private forest areas, mostly in Socorro and Salvador do Mundo.
 
 Basic infrastructure has failed to keep up with the rapid growth that the constituency, with a population of 35,909, has seen. Aside from National Highway 17 (66) which dissects the heart of the constituency and CHOGM road, the interior roads remain narrow and riddled with potholes with barely any planning in the development of Porvorim.
 
 To be fair to the constituency, infrastructural development has not left Porvorim un-touched as Khaunte managed to use his influence with defence minister Manohar Parrikar to good effect to get works done.
 
 “Khaunte has the full support of the youth but he may fall victim to splitting of votes,” said a former journalist residing in Porvorim.
 
 Khaunte and Pawaskar are not the only candidates in the fray. Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has fielded Rajesh Amonkar, Aam Aadmi Party has propped up Rajesh Volvoikar, former sarpanch of Penha de Franca and independent candidate Wilbur Ticlo, who is the brother of Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo, has also thrown his hat into the ring.
 
 Indications are it will be a straight fight between Pawaskar and Khaunte for control of Porvorim. Ask locals and they accept that Khaunte has done good work, most notable being the garbage collection that is in place. “The sitting MLA has done work but if you look at the way BJP has been campaigning, they appear stronger. They are using their resources well and besides they have the government with them,” said a grocery store owner in Porvorim.
 
 BJP has fielded businessman Gurudas Pawaskar, a staunch RSS cadre member. A first-time contestant, Pawaskar was assured of the party ticket six months ago, said a BJP party insider. This allowed Pawaskar to begin his groundwork well in advance and it shows. BJP is strong on the plateau while Khaunte’s strength lies in pockets across and particulary down the valley. There was also growing resentment against Khaunte for supporting construction of new buildings in the villages over the last five years. To his advantage, Khaunte is officially supported by the Congress.
 
 As the 2017 elections draw closer, the question arises whether Porvorim’s 24,269 voters will pick Khaunte or align with a party. In 2012, 81.26% of voters inked their fingers and elected   as the first MLA of Porvorim, a new constituency added in Bardez taluka after delimitation. While Khaunte had polled 7,972 votes, the then-BJP candidate Govind Parvatkar lost by just 901 votes, a fact that the BJP is looking at for comfort. To his disadvantage, Parvatkar’s name was announced at the last moment in 2012 and he was seen as the current AYUSH minister Shripad Naik’s nominee bringing factionalism to the fore.
 
 Unlike 2012, the BJP has managed to get its house in order this time around. The other BJP candidate Mahanand Asnodkar remains with the party and has supported Pawaskar, despite fears that he would rebel if not given the ticket.
 
 “All factions within the BJP have fallen in line. Parrikar has appeased Asnodkar so the BJP is stronger than last time. ,” said a doctor residing in Porvorim. Sources, however, say that a section of the BJP camp is unhappy that Asnodkar was denied the ticket.
 
 The recent installation of traffic signals across Porvorim has helped Khaunte score a few brownie points as the initiative has helped streamline traffic along the national highway. Whether BJP will stop Khaunte setting a record will be known only on March 11.
 
