Room number 1: Nirmal Khatri , in charge of screening committee of UPCC, office closed for over three months 

  Room number 2 : Shiela Dkishit, room closed for over three months 
 
  Room number 3: Pramod Tewari, head of the coordination committee room closed for months 
 
  LUCKNOW: With most offices of functionaries of the   closed for days,weeks or months and a padlock hanging permanently on the doors and only a skeletal staff comprising class IV workers hanging around,  , the headquarters of the UPCC,  , reflecting the dejection and gloom that has descended on the party following   in the recent past. 
 
 Despite being out of power for 28 years, the zest to return to power has been replaced with frustration and combat spirit needed to make space in the political landscape with complacence and comforts. Today, a fledgling political outfit Apna Dal has more seats than the Congress, which led the Indian freedom struggle and ruled the state for over four decades.   in Uttar Pradesh remains directionless, showing no signs of returning to power. 
 
 In the last eight elections since the power was thrown out of power in 1989, performance of the party has been continuously on the decline in the assembly elections and the constant defeats have failed to lift the sagging morale of workers, who feel dumped by the their leaders. 
 
 It is hard to believe that the Congress Party was all set to be pushed out of the bigger Legislature Party office it possesses in the Assembly building in Lucknow and the Apna Dal had staked claim to it on the grounds of having more MLAs than the Grand Old Party.
 
  The Legislature Party offices in the Assembly are allotted on the party's strength in the Assembly . Majority of the party wanted Congress out of its office for having just seven MLAs and enjoying bigger office. The Legislature Party office of the Congress could be saved only after intervention of senior leaders. 
 
 "Koi bada neta aata hi nahin," (No senior leader ever visits the party office)," lamented an attendant near the office of the UPCC president  , who seldom visits Lucknow and runs the state unit of the party from Delhi. Babbar visited the UPCC but only before the elections for some time. 
 
 If there is any senior leader who drives down to his office in the UPCC religiously and dutifully, it is the over 80-year-old Ram Krishna Dwivedi, the Congress stalwart, who was chief minister at that time. 
 
  "Yes, it is disheartening to see the UPCC in this deserted condition I am hopeful that the golden days of the party would return under the leadership of Sonia ji and Rahul ji," said the spirited Congress veteran, chairman of the disciplinary committee of the party. Some of Dwivedi's young followers visit him regularly to learn from him the values and ideals of the Congress or listen to anecdotes of the past. 
 
 Except for Dwivedi's office, most of the UPCC building has only the class IV staff who get their salary after wait of two months, while outside the building a few rickety ambassadors speak of the party's poor financial conditions. 
 
 Majority of the senior leaders have a unanimous grudge that all decisions for the party's future are taken in Delhi and the high command and state leaders are hardly involved in decision making," regretted a senior leader citing recent decision of the party's alliance with the Samajwadi Party. "Now, when urban civic polls are going to be held, we don't know what we have to do. There has been no effective agitation by the party against the BJP's mayors on the poor civic amenities in the cities for the last 10 years and now we want public to vote for us and win," he said.
 
 
