MUMBAI: In a move that could further hit the  ,   has proposed to levy a 1%   on all   and even in cases where a property is gifted.

 The civic administration said it will yield additional revenue of Rs3,000 crore if the surcharge is approved by the state government.
 
 The buyer will have to shell out Rs 1 lakh on an apartment worth Rs 1 crore.This is over and above the 5% stamp duty (Rs 5 lakh on a Rs 1 crore flat) and Rs 30,000 for registration.
 
 BMC has requested the state to amend the Maha rashtra Stamp Act and BMC Act to introduce the surcharge. As of now, the state collects stamp duty and registration charges; it collected Rs 20,000 crore across the state in 2016-17.
 
 Property experts raised concerns about the new surcharge, stating it will dampen sentiments. “The market was already affected badly in the quarter post-demonetization,“ said sources.
 
 Sudip Mullick, partner with the construction practice of Khaitan & Co said, “Residential sector particularly is suffering a negative sentiment. Purchasers are also scared that developers will mark up prices because of the new real estate act (RERA) to cover or hedge their risks. Any additional stamp duty implication would further dampen the spirit of buyers, including investors. BMC has its own stream of revenues and should augment those than venture into new territory.“
 
 Advocate Vinod Sampat said the proposal is an attempt to tax the rich without providing any extra services. “Small corporations, zilla parishads do levy tax on purchase of flats as they have a limited budget and the state has allowed them.But one fails to understand why BMC wants to levy a tax when it is not even able to utilise the existing amounts collected by it. Even corpo rators are not able to spend the amount allotted to them,“ he said.
 
 Sampat added, “Our associations namely Registration Fee & Stamp Duty Payers Association & Cooperative Societies Residents Users & Welfare Associa tion will protest. The need is to increase accountability among municipal officers and make optimum use of scarce resources.“
 
 Ramesh Nair, CEO & country head, JLL India, said BMC is not empowered to levy any charges on real esta te apart from property tax.“If an additional surcharge of even 1% is applied over and above the existing statutory charges on property transactions in an already hyper-expensive market, it can have serious repercussions as sentiment is alrea dy low,“ said Nair.
 
 Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank India, warned that any further increase in cost of transaction will lend a body blow to an already comatose real-estate industry in a city like Mumbai.
 
 `Let BMC collect professional tax'
 
 The BMC has made a request to the state government to allow it to collect professional tax, which at present the state collects from users. Civic officials stated that through professional tax, the BMC plans to generate Rs 2,300 crore, and the remaining Rs 700 crore of the Rs 3,000 crore revenue target they have will come through the new surcharge on property transactions. The state government though will have to agree with the BMC's proposal and then approve it.
 
 
