KOHIMA: A   of the   has been called on May 27, with officials saying   has summoned the session to pass the state Goods and Services Tax ( ) Bill. So far 12 states have passed the bill across the country. 

 During the budget session in March, CM Shurhozelie Liezietsu had announced that the GST bill will be rolled out from July 1, 2017. "This new tax will be replacing about one dozen central and state levies with a single integrated tax. One of the key services of this system is that all transaction will be online. The taxation department is actively engaging with the GST council to ensure a smooth transaction to the new tax regime along with the rest of the country."
 
 Chief secretary Pankai Kumar claimed that implementation of GST will be beneficial to the state because all the different taxes will be combined into one. Payment of sales taxes, including central sales tax (CST) will also become easier with enforcement of GST, Kumar said while addressing a GST awareness campaign organized recently. The tax department is currently touring all the district of the state and organizing GST awareness campaigns.
 
 State commissioner of taxes, Asangba Chuba Ao, highlighting the benefits of GST, said it will reduce cascading of taxes and prices of goods. He informed that it will be beneficial for small taxpayers as all taxes would be paid at once, unlike the present system where tax has to be paid at various stations. It will also abolish CST while exports would be zero-rated.
 
 Meanwhile, Business Association of Nagas (BAN) has appreciated the initiative of the tax department for taking a proactive role in enforcing GST in the most effective manner in order to establish a level playing ground for all the business houses of the state.
 
 In a press release, BAN said the business community of Dimapur and Nagaland in general has been apprehensive about the newly introduced GST bill, an upcoming system of comprehensive indirect taxation on manufacture, sale and consumption of goods and services throughout India. 
 
 It also stated that the business community, over the years, had been ignorant about small details about the taxation system because of lack of educative seminars. It appreciated the department of taxes for taking on the task to educate and spread the working system of GST to the business community of the state. The BAN chairman expressed a wish for a better Nagaland in terms of infrastructural development as a result of generation of revenue.
 
 
