CHANDIGARH:   ( ) in its syndicate meeting on Sunday will take up the letter from the ministry of human resource and development ( ) in connection with the matter of the CBI seeking sanction to prosecute a senior professor of the university in an alleged forgery case. The letter has stated that the Chief Vigilance Commission has treated the case of the senior professor as “deviation from the commission’s advice”.

 The case dates back to April 8, 2008, when the senior professor was appointed as an honorary expert member of the scrutinizing committee by North-West Regional Office (NWRO) of the   at its local office in Chandigarh. One of the applications came from a college in Jaipur for screening to check its land documents. Since the senior professor was an academician and did not hold expertise in checking such documents, he recommended the case for further processing, provided it was verified by the hearing committee of the AICTE in New Delhi. Subsequently, the vigilance agencies found that the signatures on one of the stamps of the deputy commissioner and the authorized officer were forged. It was in this context that the chief vigilance officers of AICTE and MHRD and the CBI asked the university for sanction to prosecute the senior professor.
 
 When the matter was tabled in the syndicate and senate in 2012, it was resolved that the sanction for prosecution should not be granted.
 
 “The Supreme Court had exonerated the management of the college of all the charges and the land documents of the college were found genuine. I had asked to verify the documents and stated that “please verify from the hearing committee based on the photo copy of the documents”,” said the senior professor.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Prof   said, “It was alleged that the management of that college had done something wrong. He failed to notice that it was wrong as if he had connived with the management, but he did nothing wrong. In fact, with the passage of time, the management has fought the case and has been exonerated,” said
 
 Grover clarified that the PU has not been asked to do anything. “We have not been asked to do anything but the letter has come to me and I cannot take an individual call on it. As a vice-chancellor, it is my duty to bring it to the attention of the governing body of the university,” added Grover.
 
 Moreover, the syndicate will also take up the letters sent to the university and chancellor only through proper channel by Dr  , professor at a university department.
 
 
 
 
 “There is no case against the professor. When they say they are treating it as a deviation, there is no direction to us as to whether we have to do anything. We have the senate in its wisdom saying no case has been made against him. Why should we disturb a teacher from his primary job of doing research?
 
