Vijayawada: A study conducted by researchers in Acharya Nagarjuna University as well as in Guntur city has revealed that practising yoga and consuming   regularly can help keep   under check.

 The National Family Health Survey-4 had recently revealed that 20% of the 125-crore population in the country suffers from diabetes and hypertension. India has earned itself the title of the diabetes capital of the world. 
 
 The principal investigator of the research project, Dr Shanthi Sri KV, told TOI. “We selected 120 patients who were less than 40 years old and were suffering from type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (DM). The subjects were divided into two groups — control group and experimental group. While the control group had 30 subjects who had diabetes, the experimental group had 90 subjects. The experimental group was further sub-divided into three groups. The first group consisted of 30 diabetic subjects who were given amla. The second group of 30 diabetic subjects were given amla and they practised ‘pranayam’ everyday and the third group of of 30 diabetic subjects only practised pranayam,” 
 
 The first group under the experimental group was given one medium size amla (35gms) every day. The second group practised yoga of an hour every day in the morning. And they were also given one medium size amla (35gm). The third group only practised pranayam for an hour everyday in the morning. 
 
 The 30 members of the control group were under treatment and did not practise pranayam or consumed amla.
 
 “Both the experimental and the control groups were asked to continue the same regime throughout the a period of one year. The FBS, PPBS, HBA1C, lipid profile, serum creatinine, blood urea, were checked before starting the study, after six months and were done again at the end of the programme, that is, at the end of one year. Besides, urine examinations were also conducted,” added Dr Shanthi.
 
 “By practising pranayam and consuming amla, the body and mind remained healthy. Natural immunity of the subjects also improved. The experimental group showed better results compared to the control group. The experimental group which followed the amla and pranayam regime had managed to control their diabetes. While between the other two groups, the group that had consumed amla had shown better results compared to the group practising pranayam. In comparison to the experimental group, the control group members are at a greater risk of developing associated health disorders like cardiac complications, renal complications among other disorders,” Dr Shanthi said.
 
 
