NEW DELHI: Education minister   has hailed the   verdict directing private schools on public land to respect the conditions of the allotment letter and seek permission from the Directorate of Education (DoE) before initiating a fee hike.

 Sisodia, while talking to reporters on Monday, said the “historic” verdict is in the favour of parents and school students who are harassed for fees. “It has brought justice to them,” he added.
 
 He said while the verdict will make sure schools respect the conditions of their allotment letter, the government has no hard feelings against these schools. “This government is not against private schools, these schools are helping maintain a certain level of education in the city. But they have not been transparent in the admission process and fee hike,” the minister said.
 
 Sisodia added that the government only wants to make sure the terms of the letter are followed, and is not interested in what the schools teach or how they maintain their quality of education. 
 
 “Our intervention is only regarding who they refuse admission and how much they charge for education. They cannot exploit the parents,” he added.
 
 He quoted the 2004 Supreme Court verdict directing the DoE to look into the conditions of the allotment letter of these schools and check if the schools had complied with the conditions, and that the conditions be complied with within three months.
 
 “No steps were taken by the previous government in this regard. Now we are trying to implement this. We have also released a circular that no private school on government land can increase fees without asking the government,” he said.
 
 The minister added, “We devised an effective way to calculate the need for fee hike, roped in a number of chartered accountants and the panel found several schools asking for a fee hike even though they have surplus amounts to the tune of Rs 5 crore in some cases.”
 
 He said the government is ready to help the private schools in any way they want, but they must bring transparency in their functioning. “The schools must focus on educating the children, not earning money,” he said.
 
