MUMBAI:   chief Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced a long march to   against CM  's regime on the issue of loan waiver to debt-ridden farmers. 

 It is by far the severest step announced by the Shiv Sena against the BJP-led government, of which it too is a coalition partner. The long march, planned in July during the monsoon session of the legislature, could be a Shiv Sena plan to thwart a BJP move to go for mid-term polls. Should the BJP play the poll card, the Shiv Sena would have safeguarded its rural vote bank with its demand for the crop loan amnesty, said observers.
 
 Addressing a well-attended farmer conclave in Nashik, Thackeray said the state unit of the BJP was gearing up for mid-term polls to bag more seats in the assembly so that it would no longer need the Shiv Sena.
 
 "We are ready to quit the government if it (the government) offers loan amnesty to farmers. We will support the government from outside... I am not hungry for power. I will ask my ministers to quit offices. But, we want loan amnesty for farmers," he said.
 
 He said that the state BJP was busy preparing a survey report on whether the party would garner more seats in case a mid-term election actually happens.
 
 Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti, an MP, and Vinayakrao Patil, a veteran of agrarian issues, also spoke at the conclave. Shetti has for long been critical of the agrarian policy of the Fadnavis government.
 
 Thackeray came down heavily on the government for backing "anti-farmer" schemes such as the Rs 30,000 crore   highway and the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train.
 
 "Maharashtra's farmers are not going to benefit because of these high-profile schemes," Thackeray said. "They want seeds and fertilisers for their farms."
 
 Thackeray said demonetisation had broken the rural economy. The Shiv Sena president said he would begin a tour of the drought-affected regions of the state in June.
 
 A section of Nashik farmers at the meeting said the Shiv Sena ministers in the cabinet should come out openly against the Mumbai-Nagpur Samriddhi highway. They even refused to partake of the food after Thackeray's rally. Finally, senior Shiv Sena functionaries managed to pacify the group, it is learnt.
 
