It’s no secret that Gurgaon likes to run. Marathons and long-distance runs are a common feature of the Millennium City’s Sunday mornings round the year. What was unique about this Sunday was that there were two running events in the city – both at the same time and place.  , organised by Amity University, and the Citizen Safety Run, organised by Gurgaon Police, both started from Leisure Valley Ground in Sector 29 right at the crack of dawn.
 
 
 
 
  
  Some run for fitness, ‘V’ run for fun (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 The half-marathon saw participation from over 10,000 residents over three distances – 21km, 10km and 5km. Poonam, an Udyog Vihar resident, who was running her first run, said, "Having never participated in a run of any distance, I felt like I wasn’t fully a Gurgaon resident yet. So I decided to start 2017 on a good note, and ran the 5km run here."
 
 While some ran for fun, and some to stay fit, there were several who ran to promote causes, ranging from road safety to mental health awareness. Dr Brahmadeep Sindhu, head of mental department, Gurgaon Health Department, said, "I ran the 10km with the aim of raising awareness about mental health. We all pay attention to physical health a lot, but the mental health gets neglected. So I used this platform to reach out to Gurgaon residents about doing away with the stigma around mental health issues"
 
 
 
  
  A happy run (BCCL)
 
 
 There was plenty of entertainment on offer too. Musical performances on a stage near the finish line kept the runners entertained. The highlight was a dance performance by Ruby, a Nigerian student, who opened her act with a medley of Madhuri Dixit-Nene numbers and got the crowd grooving.
 
 
 
  
    (L) and Ashok Kumar, DCP (South) (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Gurgaon Police’s Citizen Safety Run had 2,500 school students from Gurgaon completing a 5km run, which spread the message of citizen safety and was a part of Haryana’s ongoing Swarn Jayanti celebrations. Gurgaon Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar spoke to the runners at the finish line, and said, "Running is a key component of physical fitness. I myself run frequently, so I know how good you feel after finishing a run. The feeling of satisfaction, coupled with the physical gains, makes this a holistic activity. So I congratulate all the runners who have participated in both the events here."
 
 
  
  (L-R)  , DCP (Headquarters), Balbir Singh, DCP (Traffic) and Deepak Saharan, DCP (East) (BCCL)
 
 
