Devanathan.Veerappan@timesgroup.com

 Madurai: With the city heating up as summer approaches, the demand for tender   water has gone up, triggering an increase in prices. The price of the chowghat orange dwarf variety can cost as much as Rs55, depending on the size. Just a few days ago, this variety cost not more than Rs45. The green variety can cost as much as Rs40.
 
 Tender coconut sellers say that there is a growing demand for their product, but due to the failure of monsoons there is short supply. With the temperature expected to increase in the coming days, prices are unlikely to drop. “The orange variety which used to be sold at Rs40, is now being sold at Rs55 in K K Nagar. The average price of the orange variety is Rs50. “When I asked about the sudden increase, the seller said it is going to be sold at Rs60 soon. Such is the demand,” said J Parvathi, a mother from Madhichiyam. 
 
 There are five whole sale merchants in Madurai city, who procure tender coconuts in large quantities and sell them to retailers and local distributors. Most of the tender coconut is procured from Theni district and Pollachi in Coimbatore district. On an average, these wholesalers sell anywhere between 25, 000 and 50, 000 tender coconuts a day, depending on the availability. They say that although the demand is soaring, they are unable to procure larger quantities to meet demand. 
 
 M Hari, a commission agent from the city, said that as the demand has been increasing in other, it is difficult to procure larger quantities. “We are placing our orders in Pollachi and Theni. At present, we are able to procure only around 30,000 coconuts a day, although I would easily be able to sell at least 50,000. Such is the demand,” he said.
 
 K Andisamy, a retailer in Anna Nagar said that the demand has soared in the last two days. He was unable to buy at such high prices. Fortunately, he had stocked 500 tender coconuts a couple of days ago.
 
 CHILL PILL
 
 Total daily demand is 50,000
 
 Total daily supply is 30,000
 
 Procured from Pollachi and Theni
 
 Prices have gone up by 25% from last December
 
 While whole sale prices have gone up slightly, the retail price has crossed Rs50 per piece
 
 
