 of The Government Polytechnic College, Bandra East, are furious over the gender segregation at play in the college canteen. The authorities of the college have imposed a ‘Girls-only’ section rule,which requires girls and boys to sit in separate sections in the canteen premises, divided by a rope. They say that it’s one among many unnecessary rules being forced on them. The students are even more upset by the authorities justifying their move as a bid to prevent harassment. “There has been no such incident of harassment,” says Manish Tiwari, third-year electronics student of the college. “At the most, we celebrated our birthdays there. They are forgetting that the canteen is a place to relax. When we saw the rope we thought it was a joke.” Adds fellow student Rishabh Shah, “Why just the canteen, they act unfairly with us even in class. We are not allowed to have discussions with girl students. If a girl and boy enter the class together, they are looked at suspiciously. Teachers start asking other students if there is ‘something going on’ between the two. It’s so embarrassing; why should we be treated like that?”

 
  
 The female students are equally angry. Says Nimisha Bhatia, first-year electronics student, “We were a group of 13 boys and girls, who used to eat together and share our 
 , but we now sit separately. We have to cross the ‘border’ if we want to ask the boys for something. And if we are caught, we get fined. I have heard that the fine is Rs 500.” Adds her classmate Swati Borude, “If we laugh with our male classmates, they scold us and threaten to take away our IDs. We are often told that there is no difference between men and women and that women are at par with men. Then what is this? We also don’t have a single festival or themed day on campus as they think we will get distracted. It’s very unfair.” 
  When questioned, canteen manager Maruti says he’s only following instructions. “I’ve been told by Madam to ensure that the rope is there. I don’t know why this has happened as nothing untoward as such has happened,” he says.
  Students of the college are also distraught over a proposed uniform change to replace the college’s current shirt-pants uniform to 
 and two plaits for the girls. “We do not want a change in the current uniform as we have to commute from so far. I come from Thane and managing a 
 and 
 in the train will be so tough,” frets Nisha Mehta. Adds her friend Nitika, “I have curly hair, how am I supposed to tie it in plaits? It won’t stay.”
 
 
  
 The college authorities of this polytechnic college at Kherwadi recently demarcated sections in their canteen and used ropes to indicate a separate seating area for girls. This, they claim, is a bid to curb sexual harassment on the premises.   says she has her own reasons for taking the step. “We have been facing a lot of harassment from outside as the canteen is also shared by 13 state government offices and two central government offices. So, at any given point, there are many people here. There have been complaints of disturbance of former students and others taking up tables and leaving the girls with no place to eat. We were finding it tough to control matters. Besides, this rule is applicable for only that half-an-hour break in the canteen. What’s the big deal about it since the students are together everywhere else?” she counter-questions. When pointed that a move like that still amounts to discrimination, she says, “Yes, it may be discrimination by making both genders sit separately, but what else to do? Also, it’s just a rope, we have not put a partition. Other colleges also do this. I’m sure this will curb harassment.” 
  Clearly, segregation is not the only thing, there’s more. Deshpande also plans to introduce a ‘suitable’ uniform for girl students, who currently sport the same white-shirt-and-black-trousers like the male students. She would like something that ‘fits in’ with their psychological makeup. “Students want a change in uniform,” she defends. And what will the new uniform be? “We have not decided yet as we have to discuss matters with faculty members and student members,” she says.
 
 
 
 Clinical psychologist   warns that a gender segregation   like that can have a wrong effect on impressionable minds. “Education is about changing attitudes towards   and such stereotypes, but rules like these propagate a regressive philosophy. Remember, students are young minds; they will become more exclusive and wary instead of being inclusive. Girls may look upon men as a threat. It will foster fear. And fear is always learnt; we are not born with it. A thought becomes a mindset and that is dangerous. This generation, being subjected to such control, will go back to a prehistoric mindset. These are the same students who will go out into the world to work. Will they have the ability to develop interpersonal relationships effectively? On one hand, we are looking at female empowerment and on the other, we are putting such strictures, which is wrong. Instead of tying ropes and such barriers, why not educate and talk to students and others? Let parents give stringent guidelines to their kids at home. Why not put up notices on the campus with strict consequences? Impose a penalty on students rather than restrict them,” she says.
 
 
 
 
