KOLKATA: The   police have arrested two persons for allegedly raping a 21-year-old woman inside a beauty parlour in the   area of south suburban Kolkata. Police said that the accused have been identified as parlour owner Raj Kumar Mondal (40) and the caretaker   (52). Police claimed that the complainant had stated that while Raj raped her, Mondal stood by and made all the arrangements as his trusted conduit.

 “The victim had come to the Purba Jadavpur police station around 10.00 am on Thursday along with one of her friends. She reported that on March 6, she was asked by the accused Raj Kumar Mondal - owner of the Face 2 Face beauty parlour on   to report to his shop around 8.30 pm. Raj had promised to teach her the techniques of beauty care.
 
 “Accordingly, when the victim arrived Raj asked her to consume liquor along with light tiffin which were brought by care taker of the parlour, Mondal. After consuming liquor and food, the victim felt dizzy after which she was allegedly raped by Raj inside the parlour,” said an investigating officer.
 
 After committing rape, the accused Raj even threatened the victim with dire consequences if she tried to complain against him. She even claimed that the accused threatened to release a video of the rape on internet. This is the reason why the victim confided to her friend and waited for 36 hours before lodging the formal complaint. Both accused were arrested within hours of the FIR being lodged. A case of rape, intimidation and threat has been registered in this regard. The cops produced the accused in a local court and is carrying out further investigation in this regard. The court have sent the two accused to police custody till March 16. 
 
 “We have registered the case as soon as we got the complaint. A medical report of the victim has established rape. Investigation has begun in this regard and the arrests carried out,” said DC (south suburban division) Badana Varun Chandra Sekhar.
 
 With rising instances of crime against women, the police is now asking women to increasing use the 1090 to lodge their complaints if they are uncomfortable coming to the police as was the case here. The number was launched after the Nirbhaya gang rape-murder in Delhi and is operated by the detective department. "The 1090 Women Power Line has been developed as a parallel to the existing system of policing, which had no effective provisions to deal with cases of sexual harassment, through the medium of new-age technology like mobiles and the internet. This service for women is unique as it is for women, by women," said a Lalbazar officer, asking more women to resort to it.
 
