CHANDIGARH: The much-awaited transfer drive for teachers working in the state-run schools in Haryana would start from July 19. Thousands of teachers, including principals, headmasters/headmistresses,   (TGTs) and postgraduate teachers (PGTs), would be shifted through the online process. 

 All those who have completed three years at one station would be entitled to participate in the transfer process and those who have completed five years at one place have to participate mandatorily.
 
 According to officials of the schools education department, around 1,700 principals, 1,400 headmasters/headmistresses and around 4,500 PGTs would also be shifted. However, 20,000 TGTs would be shifted this time because it is their first time participating in the online transfer process.
 
 Explaining the process, Virender Sehrawat, additional director (administration), school education told TOI that teachers would have to submit their choice of stations from July 19 so that the department can prepare a final list as per the preference, merit and availability of stations. Sehrawat stated that if all goes well, the final transfer list expected to be released by July 25 by clicking of one button.
 
 He also added that directions have already been issued to all schools to update the details of all teachers on MIS portal drive so that merit of those participating in the drive can be prepared accordingly.
 
  were launched in August 2016 by the state government to prevent political interference in transfers of teaching staff in the state and to reduce frequent transfers of   of  . Since August 2016, the department has shifted around 40,000 teachers using its online transfer policy. Haryana is the second state after Karnataka that has evolved a policy for online transfers of teachers. While Haryana has moved forward making all transfer/postings for teachers online, Karnataka, however, has partially implemented this policy.
 
 Recently, the states of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh had also decided to follow the Haryana pattern of online transfer system in their respective states. According to additional chief secretary (school education) Haryana, P K Dass, over 90% teachers had expressed satisfaction with the online transfer process last year.
 
 Unlike last year, there are exemptions for online transfers for those teachers who are 100 % visually impaired, cancer patients, paralytics, those who have lost 100 % motor function, who have undergone bypass surgery and persons who are undergoing dialysis.
 
