JAIPUR: The issue of sealing Hotel   following complaints of  , who alleged that the establishment was serving beef, took a new twist on Thursday when the   (JMC) authorities claimed that the establishment did not have a valid licence.

 But annoyed with the failure of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) authorities to comply with court orders to open the hotel, Naeem Rabbani on Wednesday said that he was planning to move a contempt petition in the court.
 
 Following protests by cow vigilantes that beef was being served, the hotel was sealed by authorities on March 19.
 
 Even after the   (FSL) report cleared that the meat seized from the hotel was not beef, the hotel had remained closed.
 
 However, JMC authorities claimed that the beef was not just the only issue as there were complaints of the hotel flouting norms, and said they would appeal against the lower court order as they had enough grounds for it.
 
 On Thursday, deputy commissioner of police (west) Ashok Gupta said, “The report suggested that the meat was not beef.”
 
 When contacted Chagan Lal Yadav, the revenue officer,  , told TOI, “At the time when the hotel was sealed, they failed to produce a valid licence to run it. Either they don’t have any licence or they do not renew it. We will appeal against the lower court order in the upper court as we have enough grounds to do that.”
 
 On March 19, hundreds of cow vigilantes, led by self-proclaimed leader Sadhvi Kamal Didi, had protested outside Hotel Hayat Rabbani. Thereafter, the administration sealed the hotel and the police sent samples of meat to the FSL.
 
 On April 10, the owner of the hotel filed a petition seeking to reopen the hotel. And on April 29, the court ordered authorities to open it within seven days and file a compliance report in the court.
 
 Asked if he had a valid licence to run the hotel, he said, “I have informed the court that I have applied for the licence two years ago, which has not been given by the authorities. But one thing is sure, whatever the JMC says after eight days still come under contempt of court.”
 
 “I had clearly stated and pleaded before the authorities that we were not serving beef, but nobody listened to me at that time. I urge authorities to comply with the court order and take proper action against rowdy activists who had trespassed into my hotel and damaged it,” Rabbani said, quoting the court order on Wednesday.
 
 “I will wait till Thursday and if by that time the court order is not complied with, I will move a contempt petition. I am in touch with my lawyers,” he added.
 
 He also demanded taking appropriate action against Kamal Didi and her supporters for vandalizing his property.
 
 On April 29, a lower court in its order had instructed the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to unseal the hotel within seven days. But, it has been 10 days and the administration has not yet reopened the hotel.
 
 
