It was love at first sight for 17-year-old Sunita. In a dreary classroom in Uttar Pradesh's Amroha city, Rajesh walked in like a breath of fresh air. The love story took over a year to blossom.   The obstacle, though, was caste. Sunita's family of caste Hindus did not want her to marry Kumar, 19, who was from a scheduled caste. What followed was months of sheer torture for the young people. Kumar would get threatening calls. Sunita was beaten up by her alcoholic brother and pressurised to implicate Kumar in a fake rape case.    By December 2016, with the support of Rajesh's family, 19-year-old Sunita fled her home on the pretext of attending college. They took a bus to Delhi and approached the Love Commandos, a NGO that conducts inter-caste, inter-religious marriages, and eventually sought help from the Delhi Commission.    Two months later, they are living in a shelter. The future looks bleak, but their spirits are high. "I have been through so many beatings and betrayals from my family that I don't fear anything now. It is more important that we are together," says Sunita.    The couple plans to get married and find a place to stay. But the going is likely to be difficult as they try and rebuild their life while avoiding backlash from Sunita's family.    It is for couples like Rajesh and Sunita fleeing violence and conservative social mores that the central government introduced financial assistance in 2013 as a pilot scheme. The scheme, mooted by the ministry of social justice and empowerment, provides Rs 5 lakh as one-time assistance for inter-caste marriage where at least one person is SC.    But the scheme is mired in red tape, with no publicity to create awareness. The first year was a non-starter. Since 2014, only 121 couples have been able to receive the incentive amount, which includes Rs 2.5 lakh as a fixed deposit and another Rs 2.5 lakh as immediate monetary assistance.    The eligibility requirements are daunting: the marriage should be valid as per law and registered under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The incentive can only be applied for within the first year of marriage and the total annual income of the couple should not exceed more than Rs 5 lakh. The incentive is not available for a second or subsequent marriage.    Besides this, the couple must submit a caste certificate (certifying that at least one person is a SC), joint bank account details, letters of recommendation from a sitting parliamentarian or legislator and the district magistrate or collector.    An official monitoring the scheme said that the requirements were too stringent. "There are many states that do not register marriages under the Special Marriage Act 1955, which automatically makes couples from some states ineligible. The time period for application is just the first year which is too little time," he said. Rejection levels are high and the waiting time to get the assistance amount can even take up to a year, indicate sources. Despite only 51 beneficiaries in 2015-2016, the ministry has increased the incentive amount. Some states also have also introduced special incentives to encourage inter-caste marriage but have not been able to make a palpable difference.    Love Commandos founder Sanjoy Sachdev says, "Young people have let go of caste, religion and such things now. But they want their families' approval for the marriage. This proves to be their undoing, because the older generation has not reconciled to this yet." Sachdev points at a series of court rulings and laws meant to protect young people in love. "There is lack of implementation of even Supreme court orders," he says.    All India Democratic Women's Association's Jagmati Sangwan, which has campaigned against honour killings and khap panchayats, says that there is lack of awareness about the scheme. "The young couples are so vulnerable at that point that they are unable to meet the terms and conditions. Otherwise it is hard to believe that the number of beneficiaries is so low. Inter-caste marriages are increasing and so is the violence unleashed on them," she says.    The India Human Development Survey, the largest non-government household survey conducted by the National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) and the University of Maryland in 2014, found that only 5.4% of Indian marriages were intercaste. Like most other data in India, numbers on inter-caste marriages, violence perpetrated in the name of honour and lynchings by khaps and other vigilante groups are suppressed, says Sangwan.    