AHMEDABAD: Gujarat-based techno-social business incubator, Aashray, has announced it will be setting up the country’s first translational laboratory near Adalaj, Ahmedabad. The laboratory will have Rs 25 crore funding from National Skill Development Centre (NSDC). In the second phase, translational labs will be set up in Chennai and Warangal followed and in Bhubaneshwar and Indore during the third phase. 

 “The idea is to nurture technology-based innovations which have a larger social impact across various sectors,” said  , chairman, Aashray.
 
 The organization aims to incubate more than 100 projects in key sectors such as healthcare, biotechnology, nano technology, renewable energy, environment and agriculture, among others, at the Aashray Centre for Translational Research. Aashray currently has 20 incubatees, representing both social and technological enterprises.
 
 Explaining the need for the centre, Dr P I John, a   awardee and eminent plasma physicist, said, “With socially beneficial technologies, a translational laboratory improves efficiency in scientific research and approaches.”
 
 “Translational research moves an idea past the discovery stage towards prototyping, scaling-up and implementation. It requires the integration of multiple disciplines and is developed in collaboration with industry or other practitioners,” added John.
 
 In its bid to bridge the gap between technology, research and markets, from the first phase of its establishment the laboratory will provide facilities for research, testing and product prototyping. 
 
 One of the incubatees of Aashray, IASOSOL Ltd, is into plasma fractionation i.e. separation of blood into its components and making them available in the form of injections. 
 
 “These vaccines are often useful for patients with immunity deficiency. They are normally available at rates as high as Rs10,000 per vial. However, IASOSOL uses a technology which makes them available at Rs 1,000 per gram bringing down the overall cost of treatment,” said Aiyer. 
 
 
