Navi Mumbai: Days after green   complained about mangroves being destroyed at   to make way for illegal farming, more mangroves have now been uprooted at Khandeshwar and work is underway to convert the patch into  .

 In the past three days, a sizeable patch of mangroves, 60-80 years old, were uprooted close to the railway tracks. Labourers can also be seen tilling the flattened land.
 
 A complaint has been sent to the forest authorities. “This is a shocking trend of encroaching the mangroves area by first killing them and then blocking the tidal waters in order to carry out illegal farming. Despite the 2006 order of the Bombay high court declaring mangroves as “protected forests”, these illegal activities continue to thrive with the connivance of the local villagers,” said activist Anarjit Chauhan.
 
 He added that forest officials must undertake a site inspection of the destroyed mangroves at Khandeshwar and ensure that the surviving ones are not hacked. “People are driving JCB machines and tractors on the site which was earlier full of mangroves. The   must also remove the barriers that are blocking the intertidal waters from entering,” he added. 
 
 The chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell) N Vasudevan said, “I have asked the range forest officer to inspect the damaged sites.”
 
 A former member of the state forestland committee, Hemant Chhajed, told TOI: “As land prices in Navi Mumbai and Raigad areas are rising, land sharks are looking to capture any available area.” Since the destroyed   are near the tracks, the railways must also look into the matter, said Chhajed.
 
 TOI had recently reported that local villagers had destroyed mangroves between Mansarovar and Kharghar stations for illegal farming.
 
 Environmentalist D Stalin suggested, “The forest department could instal signboards at the mangroves sites stating its protected status. Also, offenders must be prosecuted and fined to curb such offences.” Activists have sought action on the latest violations under the Environment Protection Act, 2001, National Biodiversity Act, 2002, and Destruction of Public Property, 1984.
 
