SURAT: A police inspector was transferred and six junior cops were suspended on Monday on charges of negligence in duty in connection with the recent deaths due to   in Katargam. 

 The orders were issued by city police commissioner Satish Sharma based on preliminary inquiry report submitted by K L N Rao, joint commissioner of police range II. However, no action was taken against a cop posted in  , who is known to have links with some bootleggers, said sources.
 
 H S Purani, police inspector of Amroli police station, was transferred to special branch in police commissioner office. Purani was in-charge of Katargam police station when six people died after consuming spurious liquor in the area. The victims suspected to have consumed liquor at a woman bootleggers place in Gotalawadi locality of Katargam.
 
 D H Gor, circile inspector of Valsad was made in-charge of Amroli police station in place of Purani. Three assistant sub-inspectors — Ahmad Saiyed, Subhash Thakore, Rajendra Kalyan — and police constables — Dharmesh Lallubhai, Sardarsingh Dhanjibhai and   — were suspended with immediate effect. Mahesh, was posted at community police chowky of Katargam while others were part of surveillance staff of the police station.
 
 “It was found during inquiry that the police inspector and staff of Katargam police station were negligent in enforcing prohibition effectively. No raids were carried out on regular interval in the area,” said Sharma.
 
 Police sub-inspector of Olpad police station in Surat district was suspended by Nirlipt Rai, superintendent of police, Surat, for releasing an accused on bail from police station in a non-bailable offence registered against him. J S Gamit, PSI at Olpad police station was suspended on Monday by SP.
 
 An accused in a non-bailable land fraud offence was allowed to go on bail from police station. Only sessions judge has powers to grant bail in the case. Further, the PSI also allowed two other accused to go after registering their statements instead of arresting, a senior police officer informed.
 
