When I was a little boy all I wanted for my birthday, apart from the usual, was a pet. 

 But I couldn’t have one because we were one of those NRI families and my dad was, and still is, allergic. Additionally, my folks always thought I was too young to take care of a pet. But being the youngest child and having an elder sister who was kind of a book worm and a clean freak, made me always crave that unconditional love you get from animals. I remember our vacations each year to my grandparent’s house in Punalur. They had two dogs, cows and even a clutter of cats which used to be around the kitchen.
 
 Everyone I knew had at least a pet dog in Kerala and for that reason alone it was Gods Own Country for me. Each stage of my life can be bookmarked by certain pet instances; once, just before we were leaving for the airport after our vacation, I secretly hid a newly hatched chick in one of our bags before getting into the car. I got caught in the airport and needless to say, my parents and sister knew who the culprit was. Luckily, we could give it back to my grandfather who was still waiting and waving at us. Years later, when we moved back to India with an intention to settle in Kerala, my love for pets had grown; as well as my convincing skills. 
 
 Soon we had a Golden Retriever. Meanwhile, my dad was getting restless, like all NRI returns, and wanted to be busy. He started renovation plans for our home. When the work finally started, all the dust and shifting of furniture awakened my dad’s longlost allergies. He suddenly realised that the renovation was giving the dogs a lot of stress too; it was only fair to keep the dogs away from all the chaos, at a friend’s house. The sad part is that, after the year-long renovation, my parents got used to the idea of not having pets at all and gave up the dogs for adoption.
 
 My sister and I were away at hostels for our school and college educations which made us somehow cope with that tragedy. After my education and stints at work both abroad and in India, I returned to Kerala and wanted to have pets again but was sure my dad wouldn’t approve. My mom, on the other hand, said she wouldn’t mind ‘IF’ my dad was ok. Anyway, I needed to find a soft spot and I did. On their wedding anniversary I got Roxy, a Lab, and gifted it to them. I had to take the responsibility of taking care of her but they loved her.
 
 Roxy is a well-mannered and housebroken fur ball, filled with nothing but love. We share a special bond and all of it bursts out every day when I come back home after a hard day at work. It’s a sight which would turn any person into a dog lover or rather a Roxy-lover. At times, some of my relatives hate me for being so attached to Roxy but what can I say, a dog really is man’s best friend.
 
 Even while getting married, one of the major qualities I wanted in my bride-to-be was that she should love dogs. Finally when I met Roopa, my beautiful wife, for the first time, we instantly clicked and our families arranged for our marriage. We had a couple of months before marriage, we used to talk a lot and secretly meet up at times. It shocked me when I came to know she doesn’t like dogs. But then, I was determined to change all of it, and one fine day I was at her front door with a puppy. Even though her folks were not too keen on having any pets, they couldn’t refuse the first gift of their future son-in-law. However, Oreo was not as calm and mannered as Roxy, but that was her charm. My in-laws were amazed to see their daughter who previously used to hate dogs starting to take care of Oreo as one of her own. It started because it was me who gifted it, but Oreo and her very communicative eyes won everyone over, despite the mess she created at times.
 
 It’s been four years now and now both Roxy and Oreo live with my wife and me in our flat at Kochi and we are a happy family of four. We do regular long drives and always take our puppies along with us. We only plan for pet-friendly places and they love tagging along. And as for me, even in the future I want my kids to grow up around pets. They need to live with the feeling of constant companionship, learn responsibility and have a more active lifestyle.
 
 
 
 
