CHANDIGARH: Even as the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday approved waiver of   up to Rs 1 lakh thus fulfilling a major election promise, the Congress government in Punjab, which too had made a similar commitment, is still working on the details.

 The Punjab Congress manifesto had pledged waiver of debt of farmers and farm labourers but did not give any roadmap. After the government’s formation, the cabinet, in its meeting on March 18, decided that a group of experts would assess the agricultural debt and propose ways to end the debt in a time-bound manner. The members of the group would be nominated by the chief minister. The department of agriculture would follow up and ensure that the report of the group is submitted within 60 days, it was decided.
 
 The state government has also planned to constitute a cabinet sub-committee headed by the CM with ministers for finance, agriculture and irrigation and power departments as members to consider and finalize the proposal.
 
 Experts believe that whereas loans of around Rs 9,500 crore availed by farmers from cooperative banks could be taken over by the state government easily, the real challenge would be dealing with loans taken from   Loans from national banks form 86% of the total   in Punjab.
 
 A senior Congress leader, meanwhile, said that given the poor fiscal health of the state, any decision about waiver would have far reaching repercussions. “All the more reason that nothing should be done in a haste,” he added.
 
 Rural indebtedness in Punjab is estimated at Rs 80,000 crore, of which Rs 70,000 crore is the loans taken by farmers from banks. However, loan specifically for agricultural purposes is to the tune of Rs 35,000 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, SAD said that the loan waiver promise should not be linked with the demand for a   and the state government was finding escape routes to run away from its promise on loan waiver. The opposition party also claimed that data about the farm debt was already available with the state government and it should take a decision without delay. The SAD manifesto too had promised loan waiver but only for small farmers.
 
 Farm organizations are, meanwhile, cautiously optimistic that the debt ridden farmers will get some relief from the state government. “There have been reports that 40% of the total nine lakh farmers who were disbursed Rs 7,500-crore crop loans at the start of the rabi season have defaulted on their dues. These are not good signs,” said Randhir Singh, a farmers’ rights activist from Patiala.
 
