MUMBAI: Shedding reluctance to accept their malformed child who was born with brain and spinal defects at Parel’s  , the   finally decided to take the boy home on Saturday. They have, however, refused any   on the baby, which doctors say, could limit his lifespan. The mother had a difficult labour last Saturday when the baby, who had an unusually big head due to water accumulation, was born. 

 In March, the 28-year-old woman had approached   seeking permission to abort the foetus in her 27th week saying it suffers from a critical abnormality called Arnold-Chiari malformation, where the brain and spinal cord connect. But her plea was turned down based on a report by the medical board of KEM Hospital that had opined that the baby could be “born alive”.
 
 Soon after the birth, the family expressed unwillingness to take the baby home given their limited capability to tend to his medical needs. They were then counselled by the hospital. A surgery that is usually offered in such medical conditions was ruled by the neurosurgery department as the baby’s health was fragile. He was kept in the neonatal ICU and under ventilator support for five days. A hospital source, however, said the doctors were worried that the baby may not come out of anaesthesia even if a surgery was attempted. 
 
 Dean Dr Avinash Supe confirmed that the family chose to take the baby home after they were informed of all the treatment options. “We explained to them the pros and cons of the surgery and what the prognosis could be. The family decided to not opt for any surgical treatment. They said they would take care of the baby at home,” he said. The family was unwilling to comment.
 
 A senior doctor suggested that such babies may not survive too long without surgery or ICU care. “In such cases, babies often need surgical treatment and till that happens water will keep getting accumulated in the brain,” the doctor said. “Even if the baby survives miraculously, a meaningful life would be next to impossible.” 
 
 Activists have questioned the manner in which the case was handled by KEM doctors. “They could have respected the family’s decision to give up the baby for adoption rather than counselling them to take him home. The family was within its legal rights to choose to give away the baby,” a source said.
 
 
