GHAZIABAD: There was chaos at   leader Mayawati’s rally with the district administration and police failing to manage to a crowd that was much larger than they had anticipated here on Tuesday.

 At the event on the CPWD grounds in Police Lines,  , the number of policemen deployed appeared too few to handle the estimated one lakh people who had assembled to listen to Mayawati. It was not just about the size of the crowd but also its unruliness.
 
 People could be seen breaking the wooden barricades, climbing on the fencing, tearing down party posters and uprooting wooden banner heads placed along the corners. In some places in the meeting venue some men could be seen pushing women police constables, who were specifically deployed to manage the female quarters of the venue. “My sister and I are being pushed by some boys standing behind us, who are falling on us taking advantage of the crowd and this woman police officer here is not doing anything to stop them,” said Belawati, a visitor at the rally from Hapur. About 178 members of the Bahujan Volunteer Force (BVF), an offshoot organisation of BSP, were deployed at the location to take charge of the security and management of the public at the rally ground. Out of the 178 volunteers, 50 were women and 128 men.
 
 Vinod Kardam, district coordinator of BVF, told TOI, “We had known that Behenji (Mayawati) attracts a large number of people in the rally, but this number was unanticipated. We tried our best to control the people, but Behenji's charisma makes them break rules and stand up and catch a glimpse of her.”
 
 As the crowds receded after Mayawati flew away on her helicopter from the rally ground, some visitors were seen removing wooden barricades and the bamboo fencing along the length of the ground, for using it as fuel for cooking. 
 
 Women supporters, meanwhile, said they were pinning their hopes on the party’s win. Many expressed their hopes of getting employment and financial help from the government if Mayawati came to power.
 
 
