MUMBAI: This BMC election, voters appeared to be unkind to turncoats -opportunists who changed parties -and reduced many to defeat. But it seemed it had more to do with timing and a party on the upswing than any real voter apathy towards party-hopping.

 In all, 23 persons, many of them former corporators, MLAs and some even sitting corporators or seeking tickets for their wives, joined the BJP or   in the recent past. Around 18 went to BJP and five to Sena.
 
 Around 13 of those who joined BJP tasted success while none of those who tagged with the Sena could make it past the post. A majority of these successful candidates is from the   and they had moved to the BJP soon after its spectacular showing in the 2014 assembly elections.And almost all the losers in Sena and BJP were recent movers -who switched sides just before the BMC polls.
 
 Kamlesh Yadav, who won from ward 31, said he was denied a ticket in the 2012 corporation polls. “I then joined the BJP in 2014. This seat was never with the BJP for the last 20 years. This year the party has won it,“ he said.
 
 Jaya Tivana, a former Congress corporator, was also disappointed when neither she nor her husband, also a former Congress corporator, were denied tickets for the 2012 elections. They too joined the BJP soon thereafter.
 
 “The Congressmen sensed correctly that the political wind is blowing in favour of the BJP. They also understood that if they were to join later it would be difficult to get a ticket and so moved in early,“ said Deepak Pawar, faculty,  .
 
 But there were exceptions also.  , former Sena leader of the BMC house, joined the BJP on February 2, the penultimate day to file nominations for the civic elections. But he won.Shinde refused to comment on the reasons for joining BJP. “I have a lot of work to do in my ward and I want to work for the BJP,“ he said.
 
 The BJP's lack of organisational network and the winnability factor of these candidates ensured they got a ticket. The BJP also wanted to get across the message of transparency. “The candidates who were given tickets by the BJP do not have serious criminal records. Instead, they have a proven track record.The combination of the two worked,“ said Pawar.
 
 In the Sena, a cadre-based party, some last-minute additions did not click with these workers. “So even if the leadership gave a ticket to an `outsider', the cadre simply did not move around with him, sending a clear message to its voters that they can choose whosoever they please,“ explained Pawar.
 
