PATNA: After the grand  , the state government has now pulled up its socks to form the world’s longest   a big success. The event is scheduled for January 21. It is being organized to create awareness regarding liquor ban in the state.

 Apart from chain formation, the government has also planned different activities to create a buzz and pull in common people to participate in the event. While talking to TOI on Sunday,  , director (mass education) said the new Sudha milk packets would have a slogan written on them to quit liquor and consume milk. Such pouches would be available in the market within 20 days, said Jha, who is also the nodal officer of the human chain programme.
 
 Various activities have also been planned at block level, including writing slogans on the wall, floating balloon in the air with a message to promote prohibition, drink-milk competition, kite-flying competition and mehndi competition for women. “We have designed various activities and forwarded the plan to the officers concerned in the districts. Depending on the feasibility, they would organize the event. We have also written to the schools and colleges to organize various events and involve students in the movement against liquor,” Jha said, adding, “The aim behind organizing such event is to bring people to one platform and allot them place for January 21. 
 
 Even the gas agencies have been asked to stick posters on the gas cylinders promoting prohibition. “Most of the programmes have been designed with no or low cost. At block level, such activities have already been started and, now, we aim at reaching the villages,” Jha said.
 
 Gandhi Maidan being readied for Jan 21 event
 
 The Patna district administration is now working on war footing to make the Gandhi Maidan ready for the main event of human chain formation scheduled for January 21 to create awareness about prohibition in the state. 
 
 It is to be noted that apart from various routes selected all over the state to form the human chain, one such chain would also be made at Gandhi Maidan where people would draw Bihar’s map by holding each other’s hands. The sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar will attend the event at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told TOI that the agency which had put up the tent city at Gandhi Maidan for the Prakashotsava celebrations has been asked to remove everything at the fastest possible pace. They have been given January 14 deadline as the barricading work for the January 21 event would begin on January 15. A dedicated team under ADM (law & order) Rajesh Choudhary has been formed on Saturday to look into the matter.
 
 “First of all the area where Republic Day parade rehearsal is done will be cleared,” he said, adding, “From January 12, the rehearsal will begin. Even Patna Municipal Corporation has been asked to clean the venue. It is a tough job as just after human chain formation, there would be Republic Day celebrations. But our team is capable enough to complete such work on time.”
 
 
