Kolkata: Both Railways and the state government are exploring the possibility of an efficient dispersal system at Majerhat, which will be a confluence of three railway lines making it a junction with one of the highest footfalls. The intersection of a suburban line and a Circular Rail line at   will soon be joined by the Joka-BBD Bag Metro alignment.

 Once the Metro joins Majerhat, the footfall will increase dramatically. Officers of Rail Vikash Nigam Limited (RVNL), the executing agency of the Joka-BBD Bag Metro link, said, the peak-hour directional passenger count would be 15,000 for Metro alone. The Metro link would also enhance passenger flow to the other two lines, said a Metro official.
 
 One of the major flaws the station has is the narrow entry-exit passage. This prevents smooth dispersal of passengers through the single-lane Helen Keller Sarani from Diamond Harbour Road. But once the Metro station comes up there, it will take off some load from the congested D H Road and also increase usage of the other railway lines. 
 
 Once the Metro line is operational, the best way to travel to Dalhousie will be by Circular Railway, which will take passengers past the chaos at Remount Road and Kidderpore. The Circular Railway is under-utilized because of issues with accessing its stations. But once the Metro has its interface with it, there will be greater traffic on the Circular Railway, hoped officials.
 
 According to the RVNL plan, the elevated Metro station parallel to Majerhat bridge will be accessible from all platforms of the Majerhat station complex. RVNL will also be acquiring land to widen Durgapur Siding Road for the construction of the Metro viaduct. This would facilitate easy entry and exit of vehicles to Majerhat station complex from the northern side. “This road will be widened a bit as we are demolishing a few buildings for the construction of the Metro viaduct,” said an RVNL official.
 
 The state government is also building a 4.4km-long Garden Reach flyover that will help reduce pressure on the station complex. The flyover will take off from Majerhat, only a few yards away from the Metro station, and end at Brooklyn crossing near Ramnagar. “However, construction has been held up by a pending technical clearance for a 25-metre stretch that will run over a portion of the elevated tracks of Circular Railway,” said an urban development official. 
 
 Besides the main flyover, L&T will build a ramp for vehicles coming towards central Kolkata. The ramp will terminate at the Remount Road crossing, from where city-bound traffic can come straight to Bhukailash in Kidderpore.
 
 
