MUMBAI: The city's heritage milestones seem to be playing a game of hide-and-seek with civic officials. On Friday, while demolishing illegal stalls opposite MD College in Parel, the BMC chanced upon a marker, which once read, "V Miles from St Thomas' Church". Today, all that's visible above the paver blocks is 'V Miles' but we know the rest of the inscription because it was first discovered in 1988 by Clarence D'Lima, whose colleague SA Ahmadullah documented the discovery in the December issue of 'The Bombay Explorer'. Then around 2014, despite being a Grade I structure on the heritage list, it vanished from sight before being "re-discovered" with much fanfare on Friday. 

 The BMC may be apathetic to these stout markers - razing them during road repairs and allowing encroachments to block them from view - but for many amateur historians, tracking each marker is a lifelong obsession. Ahmadullah, who documented 12 in a 1987 issue of 'The Bombay Explorer', got bitten by the milestone bug when he saw number VI opposite Chitra Cinema. 
 
 His article inspired others to write in with new discoveries including one near the   in Matunga and another near Sion Fort. No one is certain how many there were originally but at least five more have been spotted after the original 12. 
 
 Today, blogs painstakingly document each existing milestone with pictures and GPS locations for marker junkies like  . For the last two months, she's been trekking across the city searching for the elusive milestones. She's already traced about seven and - despite a run-in with a speeding bike - she plans to find the rest before putting up a post on her website 'Bombaywalla.org'. The quest has even led to the creation of a Whatsapp group where members swap information, pictures and indulge in marker banter.
 
 The milestones, which fan out across the north of the city from St Thomas' Cathedral or Bombay' zero point, were originally about 3-4ft in height but have now shrunk - their bottom-halves submerged in our ever-thickening pavements. Ahmadullah hypothesizes that most of these stones were erected between 1816 and 1837. Prior to 1816, St Thomas' was called St James' Church and post 1837, the church became a cathedral. Hence, the milestones, which mention St Thomas' Church, were probably erected within those two decades. 
 
 One finely-chiseled stone at Gowalia Tank, however, probably belongs to a later era. It is the only one sporting a number '3' instead of a Roman numeral and uses the word cathedral. Hence, we can conclude that it was erected after the church was upgraded to a cathedral in 1837. "Also, it is the only one on an east-west road," explains Ahmadullah, "and those roads opened up only in the 1880s after the governor's wife died of cholera and the Government House (Raj Bhavan) was moved to  ."
 
 Since many milestones have gone missing in recent years, the   has asked the BMC to move milestones to "an open space within the radius of their current location" if they can't be preserved in the same spot. However, archaeologist Kurush Dalal explains that this would remove them from their "historical context". This is especially true considering there are multiples of some markers indicating that many different roads were in use. 
 
 Ahmadullah once felt the same way, arguing that milestones had "little aesthetic value" and were only significant as markers on an old route. But after watching one historic milestone after another vanish, his views have changed. As for the BMC's most recent find, they plan to create a railing around it so it "stands out distinctly". Perhaps, this will prevent it being rediscovered a few decades hence. 
 
