NEW DELHI: The ousted   office-bearers are in a fix regarding the nine-year cumulative period. The officials, who feel that they are robbed of their 'privilege', are caught between the devil and the deep sea.

 Following the FAQs (frequently asked questions) released by the   on Thursday, the ousted board officials are mulling to take the state route to 'seek a clarification' from the   on January 19. The officials, who have run out of all recourse in the Supreme Court, may not find that easy. And if they plan to use a 'proxy' from the state, than the proxy has to be approved by the Lodha Panel. Unfortunately for them, the State Associations haven't still submitted the list of eligible office-bearers in their respective units.
 
 This slamming of door on the cricket bosses has also left the officials fuming about how the Lodha panel's original recommendations, which had the approval from the apex court on July 18, had nine years each at BCCI and state association with a three-year cooling off clause.
 
 "This is totally unacceptable. We are going to seek a clarification from the apex court on the order. By not allowing any office-bearer beyond nine years, there won't be anyone left to run the game in this country," an angry board administrator said, contrary to the thought process of the Lodha committee.
 
 "The reforms announced by the committee last year said something else, which was approved by the Supreme Court. But the revised order of allowing nine cumulative years is something new. It can't be accepted," the official said.
 
 However, Justice (retired) RM Lodha declined to comment further on the apex court order given on January 2 and 3. "There is no point talking about it because that is order given by the Supreme Court," Lodha had told TOI on Wednesday. Therefore, making it clear that whatever the panel has done so far is simply based on the judgment of the Supreme Court.
 
 "The   have told the respective state association to involve their lawyers and seek clarity on January 19," a former BCCI official said.
 
 Incidentally, this decision was taken at the last week's meeting in Bangalore - which was attended by the biggies of BCCI. It was also categorically explained to the disgruntled members to counter the nine-year cumulative office tenure for a cricket administrator. "If all the officials are out of BCCI, there would be huge vacuum in the BCCI," another state official added.
 
