NAGPUR: For the first time ever, all   for Std XI in state affiliated colleges within city limits will now be done online. The   (CAP) till last year was partially online and there had been talk for the last three years to take it to the next logical step.  , deputy director of education (Nagpur Division) said “This is an initiative of the state government and we are simply implementing it. The biggest benefit of the   will be complete transparency.” Mumbai and Pune are the other two cities which have online CAP. 

 A meeting between junior colleges and the   is scheduled for April 7 to discuss the new project in detail. The online CAP will kick off around second week of June, as that’s the tentative date being hinted by officials for SSC results. But since it’s a new territory for the education department, officials have decided to get an early start and have laid out a tentative timeline for it (See table). 
 
 Schools will play a crucial role in the new admission system as they will help in building up the database of applicants. School principals will have to inform the education department about the number of students appearing in Std X, based on which Information Booklets will be supplied. All online applications by students will have to be approved by the school principal, thus ensuring that only genuine students of that particular school apply. The department will divide the administrative task of online admissions into ‘zones’ under a zonal head to help coordinate among almost 180-odd junior colleges in city. 
 
 Online CAP will also help to take care of the major friction between detractors of CAP and the education department. A college principal said, “Certain officials would divert students to other colleges or facilitate their admissions at places other than the ones they chose.” But in the new system students will have no choice but to take admission in the college which the software allots them. A letter to colleges sent by Pardhi clarifies that there will be no offline admissions done in city colleges from now. This rule ensures that no student can bypass the system and get admission in a college of their choice, rather than take up the seat allotted on merit. 
 
 The older CAP version in Nagpur was partially offline in which students submitted a physical copy of the CAP form which was then digitalized by an official appointed by the education department. The new system will have end-to-end online platform helping to eliminate countless man-hours lost in the process. Online CAP will cover all streams, contrary to rumours that only Science admissions will be covered under CAP as it is the only stream which receives a strong response. 
 
