NEW DELHI: A day after students and journalists were assaulted by policemen outside the Maurice Nagar police station on Wednesday, Delhi Police has suspended three cops. In addition, an FIR has been registered on the clashes between   students, supported by members of left outfits, and activists of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), with the probe to be handled by the Crime Branch.

 Dependra Pathak, Delhi Police spokesperson, said that head constables Raghunath and Ashok Tyagi and constable Sachin were placed under suspension after being identified attacking the protestors in a mobile phone video clip and through eyewitness accounts. Tyagi and Vinod are posted with the north district police, while Raghunath is from the 1st Battalion. Pathak said efforts were on to identify the others involved. 
 
 Regretting the attack on media people, SBK Singh, special commissioner and seniormost officer in charge of the area where the violence occurred, said he was not aware of who had ordered the lathi charge at the college.
 
 Meanwhile, the FIR registered for rioting, cites a woman constable as saying that policemen present at the site had tried to intervene in the clashes that started around 11am outside Ramjas College. She said the students protesting outside the college had resisted the efforts of the cops. Soon, another group inside the campus, reportedly supported by ABVP, scaled the walls of the locked campus and started clashing with the students outside. 
 
 The FIR says that AISA activists threw brickbats at ABVP members who were sitting on a dharna, but appears to have ignored the contrary accounts of students and teachers on how ABVP members had initiated the attacks.
 
 On Thursday, a large number of students held a protest at Police Headquarters at ITO pressing for a fresh FIR. “We have asked the cops to record each of our statements and register separate FIRs if possible,” said Prashant Mukherjee of the Students’ Federation of India. “We will also visit the Crime Branch office in Old Kotwali to record our statements as provided for under the law.” The protesters claimed that police stood inactive when ABVP activists went on a rampage, even when some of them abused the cops. 
 
 However, police officers said that the FIR had been filed as per protocol. “Students on both sides were injured. The FIR was not filed against any individual,” said an officer. “All evidence will be evaluated and every aspect of the rioting will be investigated before any action is taken.” He added that police had conducted the medical examination of 25 injured people, including students, as well as eight policemen.
 
