JODHPUR: Even as the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) tightened the noose on large-scale irregularities in   (JDA), involving officials and   leader Rajendra Singh Solanki, the then   chairman and close aide of former chief minister Ashok  , the latter has called the entire investigation biased and intended to target party leaders.

 On Friday, the ACB had arrested   (Jalore) P S Naga, the then secretary of JDA.
 
 Training his guns on the state government, Gehlot claimed that none of the accused had made any monetary gains and what happened was nothing more than a procedural mistake.
 
 “None of the officials squandered money in the works being investigated by ACB. The irregularities resulted from procedural mistakes. It’s not fair to target officials over this,” Gehlot said on Friday in Jalore.
 
 He said that such irregularities have taken place in almost every civic body of the state, but targeting JDA officials was demoralizing and an unambiguous indicator of political vendetta.
 
 “If the government wants to act fairly, such action should be taken at all civic bodies in the state,” he added.
 
 But according to SP (ACB) Ajay Pal Lamba, there are evidences that these irregularities had become a huge financial setback for the JDA to the tune of few hundred cores. He added that the figure could go up once the investigation in all the cases was over.
 
 “The financial setback to JDA has already been quantified in three cases of irregularities. The quantification in the fourth case, in which Naga has been arrested, is underway. For this purpose, a five-member team of PWD engineers has been formed,” Lamba said.
 
 The case pertaining to the arrest of Naga may have resulted in a financial setback of over Rs 250 crore by the way of expanding financial sanction to over 700 works.
 
 Gehlot also issued a ‘threat’ to officials, warning them of action for helping the government in harassing and targeting Congress leaders and officials.
 
 But the ACB has arrested Solanki who has been absconding and not been responding to repeated summons by the ACB to appear for interrogation.
 
 “We have already issued an arrest warrant against Solanki and are preparing to attach his properties,” said Lamba, adding that there was adequate evidence for Solanki’s role in all these irregularities and there was no intention of implicating him falsely.
 
