BHOPAL: A slew of initiatives by the   (BMC) in and around the   can cause   to the millennia old water body, allege green activists.

 “Civic body is spending crores on the ‘entertainment’ initiatives while it is yet to fully comply with directives of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). These include setting up of sewage treatment plant, GIS-based demarcation of the Upper Lake FTL and curbing all construction activities within the FTL level,” said  . He alleged that lack of planning and long-term vision is adversely impacting the Upper Lake, which is source of drinking water for 40% of the city. Many activists and citizen groups have urged the state government to make public the report on Upper Lake by Ahmedabad-based Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT). The report is a comprehensive study on ‘wise use’ and conservation of Upper Lake was submitted to the NGT. However, it is not in public domain. “BMC will abide by relevant environment norms,” said Mayor Alok Sharma. CEPT draft report has been pending with the government for over two years.
 
 Last year, a fact finding team of the National Centre for Human Settlements and Environment (NCHSE) surveyed VIP road site for loss of green cover. “At first we were told it is a heritage wall along VIP road. Later, they started chopping trees. We now learn that the green cover loss is for parking of vehicles,” said a Gandhi Medical College (GMC) official. “When the VIP road was constructed, GMC was denied permission to connect to the VIP road, citing loss of green cover. However, the BMC now is cutting trees with no worries. A connect from GMC to VIP road would have been a boom for emergency care,” he added.
 
 It’s not just constructions along Khanugaon and Boat Club, hydrology of the Upper Lake is also under treat from the use of fertilizers, agricultural activity and constructions in the catchment area, say experts. “Cosmetic changes can make the appearance better, which is temporary. We need to address the internal condition of the lake, which is pollution. Once that is addressed the optics will be beautiful too,” he said. Preservation of the Upper Lake can only be done by tackling primary impact mechanism rather than focus on secondary optics, said Prof Ashwini Wanganeo of Barkatullah University.
 
 
