PATNA: Though Patna University (PU) is celebrating its centenary, the four hostels of its   lack even basic facilities.

 Lack of infrastructure and funds has crippled the functioning of Gargi, Avantika, Welfare and Maitrai hostels of Magadh Mahila College. Each of the four hostels has 30 boarders. College sources said the university has stopped granting funds to the college for payment to hostel’s employees and for its maintenance since October last year. In January, 22 employees were asked to leave as the college was unable to pay salary to them.
 
 College principal Dharmsheela Prasad said she did not have enough funds to pay ad hoc teachers and non-teaching staff. “The college is already facing problems due to inadequate number of teachers. There is not enough cash in the college fund to fulfil the hostellers’ requirements,” she said.
 
 Welfare hostel head Suheli Mehta is disappointed over the lack of staff and funds crunch. “All the four hostels are now managed by employees, including a cook and one guard. We are paying them from what we collect from the hostellers. When they complain about the sanitation problem, a sweeper is hired on daily wages,” she said. “The college cannot ask the students to pay more because most of them come from the underprivileged families. We did not take hostel charge. The boarders only pay for food and miscellaneous expenses,” Mehta said.
 
 The college administration raised this issue twice at the PU senate meeting, but no decision was taken in this regard. “At least two guards, two cooks, one sweeper and a gardener are required. We are forced to retrench our employees due to cash crunch. If the situation remains the same, I don’t think the college will be able to provide accommodation to its students at the prevailing hostel fee of Rs3,200 per month,” said Gargi head Neera Choudhary.
 
 First year student Deepa Kumari said, “It is not possible for us to pay more. If the college increased the hostel fee, I would look for another accommodation near the college premises.”
 
 Nikita Sharma, a second year student of a vocational course, said she cleans her room every alternate day. “We asked the head to hire a sweeper as we are not able to clean the toilet and our room on regular basis. We agreed to pay to a sweeper on daily wages,” she said.
 
 “The students’ demands are genuine and the authorities are trying their best to extend hotel facilities to them,” said Archana Katiyar, head of Avantika hostel.
 
 
