LUCKNOW: Grandson of former MP and his wife committed  ,   on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Bodies of Rahul (30) and his wife Shivani (29), the couple who got married to each other two years back after love affair, were found suspended from a hook in a bedroom on Sunday morning around 3.45am.

 Rahul is grandson of Congress leader Kamla Prasad Singh a former MP from   while Shivani’s family is from Arjunganj, Lucknow. Posted as a clerk at a degree college in Jaunpur, Rahul reached Lucknow on Friday along with his younger brother Sahil. The house in   had been allotted to Rahul’s grandson several decades back.
 
 Sahil, who had arrived to the city along with Rahul, left for Jaunpur on Saturday night by air conditioned bus leaving the couple alone. Around 3am Shivani called up Sahil on his cell phone. The homemaker saw body of her husband suspended from hook. A torn portion of bedsheet had been used to make a loop.
 
 Unable to take out the body, Shivani burnt the loop to release the body. “It appears after weeping for a while she decided to take her own life,” said senior superintendent of police Deepak Kumar. Shivani used the same bedsheet to make a loop around her neck, stepped over a plastic chair and suspended herself from the same hook.
 
 Finding Shivani’s phone off, Sahil asked his friend Satendra to rush to the house. Police was also informed about the incident. Sahil meanwhile, left the bus and got into a car to head back to the city. Gomtinagar police brought down Shivani’s body and sent the two corpses to KGMU mortuary in the morning. Police found some empty liquor bottles, glasses, playing cards and burnt bedsheet.
 
 “The two loved each other a lot. I do not know what went wrong which pushed them to the edge all of a sudden,” said Sahil.
 
 Police meanwhile were trying to find out if somebody had visited the couple on Saturday night before the incident and have taken the cell phone numbers of the couple to check their call records. Local residents told police that two persons were loitering in the colony in white sedan in the wee hours. “But we do not know if they were connected to the incident and are trying to find out if the couple had visitors,” said Kumar. 
 
