KOLKATA: Despite a sharp rise in the number of   in Kolkata in the past three decades, more and more   are   to  .The reason continues to be the same: lack of suitable caregivers in a nuclear family set-up. 

 Not only does the phenomenon find resonance in most educated homes in the city , even a survey with a relatively small sample size manages to capture the reality. A recent study conducted by a team from the Diamond Harbour Women's Uni versity , the state's first all-woman varsity set up in 2013, shows that 50% of the 360 women interviewed had given up highpaying jobs because they couldn't find suitable caregivers for their children. A majority of the rest kept their jobs because they reunited with their parents or parents-in-law. Compare the findings of the study with the litera cy growth among women in Kolkata -from 63.3% in 1981 to 84.6% in 2011. The national average is only 55% according to the 2011census figures.
 
 The women interviewed for the survey , included qualified professionals, doctors, engineers and post-graduates. Among them, 45% were from the IT sector, 20% were PSU employees, 20% employed in the private sector, 10% were from BPOs and 5% from other sectors.
 
 Samik Kar, associate professor of sociology , Maulana Azad College, said even though the sample size of the survey was small, the findings hold a mirror to society . “Gender inequality continues to make sacrificial lambs of women despite all the tall talk,“ he said. Maitreyee Bardhan Roy , o spearheaded the census who spearheaded the censusbased research, puts it more succinctly: “Despite their educational empowerment, women in Bengal are actually walking backwards because society hasn't changed one bit.“
 
 The study shows that only a very small percentage -5 % -of those who gave up their careers took up part-time low-paying jobs that did not do justice to their qualification. A viable option for them were the mushrooming kindergarten schools, which have shorter working hours. Most of the women interviewed revealed that were afraid of leaving their children with unskilled and essentially rural caregivers supplied by the numerous `ayah centres' in the city.
 
 Another fact that the study throws up is that a majority of the women interviewed had only one child, which points at the exhausting career-family balance that is forcing women to opt for a smaller family .
 
 
