The weekend show with   continued and Vaiyapuri was announced safe from elimination, who later thanked all the fans and audience of the show. Meanwhile, Kamal Haasan had both   and   bring out their packed luggage to the living area. After having some fun with the housemates and almost sending both to the exit door, everyone were called back and Julie was announced safe with Harathi getting eliminated from the show. Harathi who was nominated for the coming weeks captaincy task, nominated   in her place for the task.
 
  
 Namitha snubs Julie when she comes to hug her as she is happy about being saved from elimination. Namitha tells her she doesn't like to hug everyone and hugs only people she likes a lot, so warns her not to do try that again. Meanwhile, Shakthi explains to Ganesh about others triggering Gayathri to fight with everyone. 
  
  
 Gayathri and Raiza are in conversation discussing about Oviya getting lot of votes from the audience. After this, Gayathri makes another scene in the house informing the housemates that she is going to return her chocolate powder. The housemates talk her out of it and make her keep it. Namitha, Oviya and Gayathri get into a argument about the show with Oviya defending that the channel isn't showing anyone in bad-light, but just telecasting the reality happening in the house. Looks like Namitha and Gayathri have their eyes set on Oviya for next weeks elimination.
  
  
 Kamal Haasan has a chat with Harathi who got eliminated from the show. She continues to accuse Julie of still being fake and also others are not being themselves in the show. She also mentioned she would like to eliminate Namitha if given a chance, when asked. She was later joined by her husband Ganesh and the couple continued the chat with Kamal. 
  
  
 With all the protest happening to ban the show and also arrest Kamal Haasan and the contestants, the show had a chat with a p
 and a social scientist. The two explain about their thoughts about the show. 
  
  
 Finally, Bharani who left the show after trying to escape from the   house comes to have a chat session with Kamal Haasan. When asked about who he thinks will win the show, he replied saying that the only voice (Oviya's) which said 'bye Bharani' while he was leaving the show would be the winner. Despite being questioned numerous times to express his thoughts about others, Bharani didn't want to talk ill about anyone. He mentioned that he was deeply hurt by being tagged as someone who is not safe for women in the show and that was the reason he wanted to go out of the show. 
  
  
 Will Bharani make a comeback into the show? Is Julie's next target Oviya? Will Gayathri change her attitude in the show? 
 
 
 
