While it was all about fusion and bhelpuri medley (garba songs and musical instruments) during the Navratri festival in the recent past, this year,   enthusiasts and musicians are stressing on melody, music and meaningful lyrics. Navratri, which kicked off on September 21, is synonymous with energy thumping dandiya and garba beats. And at the helm of these events are musicians, who keep the dancers going all night, crooning popular folk and Bollywood songs. Such is the exclusivity of these performers to this festive season that it's fascinating to see how they spring back in action for the annual nine-night revelry after lying low throughout the year. In fact, you never hear even a note from them. Says Falguni Pathak, who's synonymous with dandiya performances, “Garba is no longer just a seasonal affair. People love to play garba at weddings and corporate events, so you'll find me performing to garba events throughout the year now." She shares that she also uses the time to prepare Gujarati folk songs. “Earlier I used to collect cassettes and CDs of folk songs from small towns of  , but online videos and social media have made the job even more easier. I have recreated an old Gujarati song this time. It's called  , which have perfect beats for garba dancing.”

 
 
 Popular singing sisters duo   have been rocking the garba dance floors with Gujarati songs like Manyaro, Pankida, Tara bina sham and Kesariyo rang for years now. Though they are known for fast-paced songs (Hindi song listeners would associate them with the song   song), they feel that it is important to bring back melody in Navratri music. “There is a lot that goes behind selecting songs for a gig. Our songs have been researched from literature and poetry of Gujarat. Even if we introduce modern and contemporary music forms to keep up with the trends, we never veer away from folk. Audiences are used to hearing folk and we have to give them what they like and enjoy," says Preeti, adding, "We have used the ‘sugam’ aspect rather than hardcore folk music. Sugam sangeet is more about being melodious and rhythm based."
 
 
 
 Bollywood singer and musician   has worked up a playlist that marries traditional instruments like dhol and toto with international instruments like guitar and drums. He says, “I love crooning Bollywood songs like 'Dholi Taro', which are based on Gujarati beats. In the earlier days, there were no loudspeakers, so people would pitch and sing along with the shehnai. Keeping this in mind, we have created nine different concepts for the nine days, where we'll be using traditional instruments besides the new ones. And in Mumbai, people not only enjoy variety of music, but also enjoy singing the song along with dancing to garba beats." 
 
 
 
 What is interesting to note is that many composers have embraced the Bollywood style garba tunes to make a connect with the youth. At the same time, the essence of the tunes is kept intact. 
 Singer and performer Lalitya Munshaw, whose Navratri schedule, includes travelling between Gujarat and Mumbai for performances, feels, Bollywood music is more dominant in Mumbai than anywhere else. She says, “Since Mumbai has a cosmopolitan crowd, mixing and mastering the Bollywood songs with traditional garba notes makes the songs edgier. So, a lot of experimentation happens at the venues itself. One cannot play around much with the subject, so there is effort to bring in catchy sounds which the youth find interesting. But we still incorporate traditional garba and Navratri songs as the new generation should also know about them. My songs like Birdaari and Mhara Te Chitno are quite a hit among the young crowds.”
 
 
 
 
 'Tara Via Shyam'
 'Kukda Tari Boli'
 'Dholida Dhol Dheemo'
 'Pankhida Tu Udi Jaje'
 'Ramto Bhamto Jay'
 'Ek Var Bolu'
 'Avo To Ramvane'
 'Odhani Odhu'
 'Kesariyo Rang'
 'Mahendi Te Vavi'
 
