NAGPUR: Even as the state government finds it difficult to   for many development works, it is wasting a   so that the top politicians and bureaucrats can   The public works department (PWD) spent Rs5.34 crore just on manpower during the winter session of state legislature in 2016. The manpower, which was employed by floating tenders for housekeeping agencies, was for serving the netas and babus who had come from Mumbai.

 While PWD says that VIPs need special treatment, activist Anil Wadpalliwar has alleged that it was a scam and so much manpower was actually not deployed during the session.
 
 “If you consider minimum wages plus taxes, then PWD has to pay Rs530 per person to the contractor. This means that around 3,000 persons were employed during the session. An army of servants should have been visible in Civil Lines, which is not the case. The contractors don’t employ even half the number and PWD does not keep a check,” said Wadpalliwar.
 
 There are some tenders that PWD officials are unable to explain. For example, tender no. 56,629 was for providing upkeep during winter session last year for Suyog building (where journalists from outside Nagpur given accommodation), worth Rs5.72 lakh. Another tender (no 56,751) was floated for providing labour during winter session 2016 for Suyog building, worth Rs4.10 lakh. 
 
 Assistant engineer (division I) Avinash Gulhane was unable to explain what was the difference between two tenders. However, the department paid money to both housekeeping agencies that were awarded the tenders.
 
 There are many such questionable tenders. Tender no. 56,635 was for providing manpower in Vidhan Parishad hall, ministers’ chambers and various offices (Rs7.21 lakh). Tender no. 56,634 was for again providing manpower in the same places (Rs7.37 lakh). Similarly, there are two tenders for providing housekeeping services in Vidhan Sabha hall and ministers’ chambers. In addition a tender was floated for providing manpower in chambers of chief minister and cabinet ministers in Vidhan Bhavan (Rs6.95 lakh). 
 
 Wadpalliwar alleged that this was nothing short of a scam. “What is the need for two tenders to provide the same service at the same place? The state government should order CID enquiry into this affair,” he said.
 
 This apart, the number of servants employed defy explanation. Tender no. 56,732 was floated for providing manpower at the official residence of chief secretary. As per the tender, the housekeeping agency was to provide three room boys in three shifts, four cooks in two shifts and two sweepers in a single shift. Their total wages is above Rs10,000 per day. The service was provided for 44 days.
 
 “The chief secretary did not come with his family. Even if he did what was the need for four cooks? Why were two sweepers required? Did the chief secretary stay here for 44 days? This many staffers were not employed and the agency pocketed their wages,” said Wadpalliwar.
 
 Anil Kilor, president of Jan Manch, a social organization, slammed the government for such waste of money. “On one hand there is no money for the farmers. They are committing suicide. The state has a debt burden of Rs4 lakh crore and on the other hand money is being wasted like this. It is shocking and shows that those at the top do not have any control,” he said.
 
 Even though the total sum spent on manpower by PWD was Rs5.34 crore, executive engineer (division I) Sanjay Indurkar claimed that the department had spent only about Rs2.25 crore. 
 
 PWD does not seem to have learnt from its past mistakes. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has suspended 24 engineers, who were posted in division I between 2006 and 2010, for their involvement in Rs119 crore scam in repair and maintenance of Ramgiri, Devgiri, MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Nag Bhavan and other VIP buildings.
 
 Repeated attempts to speak to PWD minister   over three days failed as his secretary did not put the calls through to him. A text message sent to the minister went unanswered.
 
 Wastage continues
 
 PWD does not waste money during winter session alone. It has recently floated a tender for providing manpower services in MLA Hostel for six months. This building does not have even 25% occupancy unless there is a political function or a VIP’s programme in the city. However, PWD has assumed 70% occupancy and is set to spend Rs80 lakh on it. In addition, PWD has its own staff of about 15 persons for the building.
 
 Wadpalliwar charged that so much manpower was not needed but Indurkar said that it was required. “There is a team of seven persons including of plumbers and carpenters under a supervisor. There are 30 housekeeping boys in two shifts and 11 persons in night shift. In addition there are sweepers,” the EE said.
 
 
