GUWAHATI: When it comes to health schemes or   in  , the state does not fare too well. The latest National Family Health Survey-4 ( 2015-16 ) revealed only 10.4% of the   have at least one member covered under any such scheme. 

 The state government, which rolled out the ambitious Atal Amrit Abhiyan (AAA) last Sunday, now faces a daunting task to improve the coverage. The AAA scheme aims to cover below and above poverty line (BPL/APL) families whose annual income is below Rs 5 lakh. Assam's 10.4% was only an 8% increase from 2.3% when the last survey was carried out in 2005-6. Urban Assam fared poorly as well with a meagre 12.6% of households being covered by a  . 
 
 Only Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Manipur ranked below Assam when it came to this important key indicator in the survey with 5.7% and 3.6% respectively. Tripura, according to the survey, recorded 58.1% coverage, Meghalaya (34.6%) and Sikkim (30.3%). 
 
 Population sciences experts and medical practitioners have expressed concern over Assam's minimal coverage of health schemes. "Reasons as to why it is so low in Assam are difficult to comprehend. At times, it may so happen that the head of the family is unavailable when a survey is being carried out and the person available may not be able to give details about the pertaining questions. Again, the low percentage may be due to lack of awareness about insurance or health schemes. It could only be hypothetical," said a population science expert based out of Assam.
 
 Fieldwork for the survey in Assam was carried out from November 6, 2015 to March 31, 2016. It was done by Nielsen (India) Private Limited. NFHS-4 was carried under the aegis of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The Mumbai-based International Institute of Population Sciences (IIPS) was designated as the nodal agency to conduct the survey.
 
 Information was collected from 24,542 households, 28447 women and 3860 men. "There should be an universal health insurance scheme which should be put in place as early as possible. The state government should have accelerated its efforts. I haven't seen the NFHS survey but the 10.4% figure is quite low," said a medical practitioner. 
 
 
