GURGAON/CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Friday banned the use of liquid nitrogen in drinks and food, reacting to a cocktail accident at a Gurgaon pub this April that burnt a hole in a man’s stomach.

 The state’s food and drugs administration (FDA) commissioner, Saket Kumar, said any drink or food whose preparation involves the flushing or mixing of liquid nitrogen is harmful for those who consume it. 
 
 Kumar said that the ban has been issued under the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (Central Act 34 of 2006). 
 
 The department will now conduct surprise checks in restaurants and bars, especially those in Gurgaon, to check whether the ban was being flouted, officials said.
 
 Liquid nitrogen (nitrogen in a liquid state at an extremely low temperature) is colourless and has a boiling point of -195.79 °C. It is used in bars to quickly chill glasses, freeze ingredients, provide a smoky effect to drinks and in molecular gastronomy. It releases a large volume of gas as it evaporates, which can “burst the stomach” if consumed in a sufficiently large quantity.
 
 “Due to its low temperature, liquid nitrogen can be extremely damaging to body tissue, causing frostbite and cryogenic burning on contact. Moreover, if ingested, it could lead to severe internal damage, destroying tissue in the mouth and intestinal tract,” Kumar said.
 
 That’s exactly what happened to the 30-year-old   who drank a cocktail with liquid nitrogen on April 13. According to qualified mixologists, any drink mixed with liquid nitrogen cannot be served until the smoke has evaporated. But neither did the bartender wait for the smoke to disperse, nor did the person for whom the drink was mixed.
 
 The liquid nitrogen led to the man’s stomach being so badly burnt that his abdomen was left perforated. The doctor in charge of the surgery described his stomach like an open book.
 
 The ban was effected on the recommendation of Gurgaon’s food safety officer K K Sharma. After the cocktail accident, a survey was conducted in Cyber Hub and Sector 29 by the FDA. “We noticed that not just the alcohol, liquid nitrogen was being used in food too. This is extremely dangerous, so we compiled the survey report on Monday and sent it to the commissioner. Taking immediate action, he imposed the prohibitions.”
 
 Any eatery found using liquid nitrogen with any drink or food will be booked under section 34 (i) and (ii) of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. The said eatery may also face closure and/or a penalty.
 
 Even though it was a oneoff, the authorities have been spooked enough to not want to take any chances, concerned that a repeat is not out of the question, with the mushrooming of bars whose owners prefer style over ‘substance’ when it comes to serving cocktails.
 
 Some mixologists, and proprietors of bars too feel a lax supervisory regime and worrying disregard for safety make the use of liquid nitrogen too risky a proposition. Yangdup Lama, co-owner of the city’s Speakeasy-Cocktails &Dreams, said this was an accident waiting to happen.
 
