CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh will host a one-day workshop on Saturday on “Innovation in Biomedical Instruments and Devices”. This is the third in the series of such workshops hosted by PGI under the leadership of professor G D Puri in collaboration with   (DST), ministry of science and technology, New Delhi. The earlier workshops were held during the last year wherein all regional institutions participated on a common platform to brainstorm ideas for innovation in biomedical instruments.

 It is noteworthy that a large number of medical devices that are used today, be it implants or screws that are placed inside human body or the ubiquitous imaging equipments like CT scan and MRI, are imported into India. In addition, there are varieties of small and big clinical issues or problems that can be solved with the help of innovative ideas translated into numerous gadgets/ devices/ instruments. One of the thrust areas of DST is to encourage Indian scientists to innovate such indigenous solutions for problems faced in Indian hospitals.
 
 This workshop will be attended by eminent medical specialists from PGI, Chandigarh as well as engineering and technology experts from   (IIT), Ropar, IIT, Mandi, Central Scientific Instrumentation Organization (CSIO), Chandigarh, PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, Semiconductors Limited (SCL), Mohali, and INST, Mohali. The workshop is expected to provide a platform for engineering and technology experts to put forth their ideas in biomedical innovation that may be useful for patient care. PGIMER faculty and   to discuss the various ideas and solutions useful for patient care management that require engineering and industry partnership. In order to achieve the objective to implement the innovative idea and thus make it available for a larger section of our population, representatives of industry and commerce dealing with manufacturing and supply of biomedical instruments and devices are also expected to participate in this workshop.
 
