NEW DELHI: India on Wednesday strongly justified its decision to move the 
  ( ) on the case of Indian national  , 
  , saying he had been subjected to a sham trial and that his life was in danger. India took the step 46 years after it had last approached the ICJ to resolve a dispute with Pakistan. Foreign ministry spokesperson Gopal Bagley said the decision was well considered and meant to ensure justice as 
  had not responded to India’s 16 requests for consular access to Jadhav.

 The ICJ, which on Tuesday asked Pakistan to stay Jadhav’s execution, is to hear the case in detail on Monday and could issue an interim order. India argued that repeated denial of consular access was a violation of Jadhav’s rights under the Vienna Protocol and Bagley said his parents’s application to visit Pakistan went unanswered. Foreign minister Sushma Swaraj had written to Pakistan’s   on April 27 asking him to facilitate visas for Jadhav’s parents.
 
 India also dismissed suggestions that moving the ICJ could prompt Pakistan to seek third-party interventions on issues related to the J&K dispute. Sources here said the government had only invoked limited jurisdiction in Jadhav’s ‘Won’t Open Door For Pak To Seek J&K Mediation’ India in ICJ after 46 yrs: Govt says sham trial forced hand case since both countries are party to Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR). Indian authorities highlighted that, like India, Pakistan too was a signatory to the Optional Protocol to VCCR on settlement of disputes which allowed ICJ the jurisdiction to hear disputes related to the interpretation of the convention.
 
 The protocol calls upon signatory countries to abide by any decision taken by the ICJ on disputes related to denial of consular access to people who are imprisoned abroad.
 
 India’s representative at The Hague, lawyer  , said Pakistan, despite claiming that the ICJ has overstepped its jurisdiction, will have to consider the consequences of violating the order. “If Pakistan dares to breach the directive to hold its hand till a formal hearing on India’s plea, it will be inviting dangerous consequences as the issue will then be taken up by the UN Security Council,” he told TOI.
 
 Salve outlined India’s case against Pakistan and said, “The focus of our plea is that Jadhav’s arrest was dubious, the espionage charge is a manufactured one, denying India consular access for more than a year despite repeated requests is a serious breach of the Vienna Convention and that the trial was a sham.”
 
 India believes its petition on Jadhav before the ICJ in no way impinges on Kashmir and other outstanding issues with Pakistan, which could only be resolved bilaterally. The Jadhav petition, officials said, was about Pakistan’s “egregious violations’’ of Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR) in not allowing India consular access to Jadhav and in awarding him death sentence.
 
 India is party to the ICJ but with several exceptions, including that disputes involving states which are member of the Commonwealth won’t fall under the purview of ICJ. Salve explained that issues like trade or Kashmir would not figure before the ICJ, and pointed out that the Jadhav case related to the Vienna Convention and the violation of the Indian national’s rights. Pakistan, however, has already declared that its domestic laws will take precedence over VCCR in Jadhav's case.
 
 On access to Jadhav, Pakistan has said it will prefer to go by the bilateral agreement on consular access signed on May 21, 2008 which, it says, clearly stipulates that in security-related cases, access would be decided on merit. After India approached the ICJ, the court called upon Pakistan “to act in such a way as will enable any order the court may make on this request to have its appropriate effects”.
 
 Fearing immediate threat to Jadhav’s life, India had requested the ICJ to take provisional measures, without waiting for an oral hearing, to prevent his execution.
 
 
 
 
