MUMBAI: The last of   driven controls on cash withdrawal will be lifted on March 13 when people will be allowed to take out any amount from their savings bank account, as was the case before November 8, 2016.

 The   on Wednesday said that it will remove the cap on cash withdrawals in two phases.Starting February 20, the withdrawal limit will be more than doubled to Rs 50,000 a week from Rs 24,000 now. On March 13 all restriction will be lifted.
 
 In its monetary policy review RBI said that speed of remonetisation (replacement of withdrawn notes with new) has picked up. Out of the total demonetised cur rency notes of Rs 15.44 lakh crore, nearly 50% (close to Rs 7.5 lakh crore) have been replaced by the new currency notes, mainly the new Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes.
 
 Going against the expectations of most market analysts, RBI governor   kept the reverse repo rate (the rate at which RBI lends to banks) unchanged at 5.75%. Explaining the decision, the governor said that the impact of demonetisation would wane by end March and demand would pick up in the new financial year driven by low rates.
 
 According to Keki Mistry , vice chairman and CEO, HDFC, interest rates are already at the lowest level since 2009. “It is not interest rates that are holding back demand. Demand is low because of unutilised capacity . The measures announced in the budget will result in more jobs which will lead to more demand. “We might see rates come down a bit but nowhere like the reductions we have seen in January 2017,“ said Mistry . Several commercial banks had cut lending rates in January .
 
 The central bank did not divulge the extent of demonetised currency that came back in the banking system. Al though the last date for depositing old notes was December 31, the Centre is yet to take a decision on the notes with Nepal Rashtra Bank and the Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan. Indian notes are accepted currency in both the countries.
 
 “The window for NRIs to de posit notes with RBI is open till June 30 after adding all these, we will be in a position to give out the number,“ RBI deputy governor SS Mundra said. He added that massive reconciliation exercise was also on across the country with regard to the physical cash received.
 
