AHMEDABAD: The special investigation team (SIT) court hearing the   decided on Wednesday to summon BJP president   and 13 others for examination as witnesses in this 2002 Gujarat riots case.

 Special judge P B Desai ordered that witness summons be issued to Shah and others in response to an application by former minister and accused in this case Maya Kodnani. She had argued in her defence that she was not at the spot in   when the violence took place.
 
 Kodnani, VHP official Jaideep Patel and   functionary   are the key accused in the case. More than 80 people are being tried for the killing of 11 people in Naroda Gam on February 28, 2002. Kodnani’s advocate, Amit Patel, had sought that Shah and others be summoned as witnesses. He argued this was necessary to establish Kodnani’s claim that when the violence occurred, she was at the assembly in Gandhinagar and later at Sola Civil Hospital on SG Road.
 
 Patel had cited three prosecution witnesses who had made statements contradicting the prosecution’s claim that Kodnani was at Naroda Gam. She further urged the court to permit her to examine Shah and 13 others so that she could establish her presence at the state assembly, then at the Sola Civil Hospital and later at the civil hospital in Asarwa, and finally at her own hospital — Shivam Maternity Home at Saijpur Bogha.
 
 Apart from Shah, those who Kodnani wants questioned include her husband Surendra Kodnani, Dr Dhaval Shah and one of the patients treated by her at her hospital on February 28.
 
 While permitting Kodnani to examine these witnesses, the judge made an observation about the relevance of questioning of these witnesses. The judge said that some witnesses could be dropped at a later stage if there was a possibility of repetition of their testimonies.
 
 “However, in the absence of any objections and while recognising the right of the accused to examine defence witnesses, I am of the opinion that the number of witnesses sought to be examined is neither unreasonable nor unjustified,” Judge Desai observed. The court said that the time and date for summoning these witnesses would be decided later.
 
 Kodnani was convicted and sentenced to 28 years in jail. The Gujarat high court later granted her bail.
 
 
