THANE: The 16-year-old boy, apprehended by the Kasarvadavli   on Thursday in connection with the hit-and-run case that led to the death of a 55-year-old homemaker inside the Hiranandani Estate complex on Tuesday, was granted conditional bail by the  . 

 The Class XI student of Hiranandani Foundation College was driving a Ssangyong Rexton, borrowed from his college mate, and reportedly lost control of the vehicle and dashed into  , a resident of Broadway Co-operative Housing Society in Hiranandani Estate, as she was walking towards the temple inside the complex.
 
 Police said the minor, who is a resident of Sukur Residency in Kasarvadavli area, darted from the accident spot without bothering to attend to the victim. She was rushed to the hospital by passersby but succumbed to multiple injuries on the head and chest.
 
 "The teenager was driving an SUV borrowed from his friend who, in turn, had obtained the vehicle from his uncle. He was alone in the vehicle when the accident occurred. When we questioned him later about fleeing instead of helping the victim, he claimed that he had panicked on seeing the crowd which gathered immediately. Many people witnessed the entire incident and reported it to the police, including the registration number of the car. We later learnt the SUV belonged to the juvenile's friend's uncle," said A R  , investigating officer from Kasarvadavli police station.
 
 Police said if it is found that the owner of the car handed over the keys to the minors though they didn't have the requisite licences to drive, stern action would be taken against him. "We are yet to determine whether the friend had acquired the vehicle's key with his uncle's permission or it was taken without his knowledge," added Kolekar.
 
 "Of every 10 accidents that happen in our jurisdiction, a majority of cases, at least six to seven, are hit-and-run. The accused just speeds away without bothering to extend any medical help to the victim. They later claim they did so because they are scared the mob, which has witnessed the incident, will beat them, or that they simply panicked and fled," DCP Sunil Lokhande said.
 
 Police said while many accidents occur in the   area, there are no CCTV cameras on the road so most of the accused don't stop after the incident. They are caught only if a witness manages to note their vehicle's registration number.
 
