LUCKNOW/FAIZABAD: Throwing an open challenge to   Narendra Modi to debate on the issue of development in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister   Yadav on Friday said the BJP leadership was misleading people with false promises. He said people of India have seen through the PM’s false promises and will vote him out of power in next Lok Sabha elections.

 Targeting the BJP, the   chief challenged Modi for a debate on development at a venue of his choice. “If the prime minister wants the venue of debate to be the banks of Ganga maiyya, which he had promised to clean, or the village of Khazanchi–the baby boy born when his mother was standing in a queue outside a bank shortly after demonetisation,” Akhilesh said, addressing a public meeting in Faizabad on Friday.
 
 Sharpening his attack on Modi, Akhilesh said the PM talks of introducing a bullet train in the country but has done nothing for the project so far. “They will never be able to do it in the remaining two years that the government at the Center has at hand,” he said, adding that the government at the Centre should talk about the projects and welfare schemes it has launched in the last three years instead of attacking the SP government with baseless allegations.
 
 Continuing the war of words with the prime minister over discrimination with people on grounds of caste and religion, Akhilesh said the PM should cross-check facts with meritorious students who have received free laptops. He said Modi is talking about graveyards and crematorium but SP has a development agenda which includes laptops and smartphones.
 
 “PM talks of power supply during Diwali and Ramzan but is not willing to swear by river Ganga if Kashi is getting uninterrupted power supply,” he said, adding that he had asked Modi to tell people of the state how his parliamentary constituency Varanasi gets electricity round the clock. “Probably, the information provided to Modi was incorrect and he must verify fact before making such comments,” said Akhilesh at another election rally in Ambedkarnagar. 
 
 Akhilesh has been under direct attack from the BJP leadership including PM Modi and party chief Amit Shah all through the election campaign for his government’s performance. The two have repeatedly questioned his development agenda accusing him of launching welfare schemes where people of particular castes and religion get all benefits while others are left untouched. He has also been targeted for rampant lawlessness in the state.
 
 
