'Sahas', the women empowerment cell of  , alongwith   and the debating society of the college, recently invited UPSC topper   to interact with the students. The 2015 UPSC topper is also a DU graduate, and seemed really excited to return to the university. She said, "It is absolutely wonderful to come to DU and here in KMC. This is one of the best colleges in the country. I would like to thank the principal of the college (Dinesh Khattar) and the organizers for inviting me here to interact with you all."

  Tina started her address by thanking the students who came to listen to her. "The best thing about the students of DU who are studying here or who have graduated from DU is that, we are so passionate about everything that is happening in the entire country. We all make sure that our voice is heard. I have come here to talk about how our youth can channelise this energy into the right direction and take our country to places."
 
  Talking about her experience when she was preparing for the UPSC examinations, she added that she had also attended many seminars to get a perspective. "I was just like you all, I used to attend seminars, stand under the sun and listen to speakers. You know, in our day-to-day life we all complain, 'Yeh toh acha nahi ho raha, this is going wrong, hum hote toh hum aisa karte – if you really think that you can bring about a change in the system, then get into the system and make that change'," she said as the students applauded. 
 
 
  
  Students said that Tina's session helped clarify a lot of their doubts about UPSC (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Soniya Kumar, a second year student of the college said, "This is one of the toughest exams. You can read as many books and give your best but still not clear the exam. But sessions like these help us in understanding more about it."
 
   , another second year student of the college, added, "I might appear for this exam after my graduation. And the best thing about the session was that she spoke so much about her experience and how to prepare ourselves for the exam. That cleared most of the queries that we had."
 
  
 
 
