From Scientist To Sportsperson, From Singer To Social Worker, And Actor To Lexicographer, Seven From Karnataka Win   Awards This Year For Excelling In Their Fields, Bringing Laurels Home.

 Nothing Is Impossible For These Harbingers Of Change
 
 For the third time in five years, the accomplishments of an Uttara Kannada folk artiste will be recognised with a Padma award this Republic Day. Sukri Bommu Gowda, 80, a doyen of Halakki folk music has been selected for India's fourth highest civilian honour.
 
 Yakshagana artistes Kere Yakshagana artistes Keremane Shivaram Hege and   were feted with the Padma Shri in 2012 and 2014 respectively. Not unlike Keremane and Chittani, Sukri is also a performance artist, and in the vast reservoir of her memory lay stored more than 5,000 songs, many of which are more than a 100 years old.
 
 In fact, the songs that are rendered in the Halakki Kannada dialect, are handed down over generations and Sukri of Badageri village, Ankola taluk learnt them from her mother. In more ways than one, these songs are aural relics of the community's past. Sukri, fondly called Sukrajji (Sukri grandmother), belongs to the Halakki Vokkaliga community , which is identified as an OBC though it is a tribal community.
 
 Known as the `Nightingale of Halakki songs', Sukri is one of the last remaining repositories of the knowledge of her forbears. Lamenting that not many youngsters in her community were inclined towards learning these songs, Sukri said, “They are drawn to the more glamorous modern forms.“
 
 These songs, composed across generations, resonate with the rhythm of work on paddy fields. Sukri pointed out that these songs were rendered by mem bers of her community while tilling the fields. “While we were sowing the seeds, ploughing the fields, harvesting the crop or winnowing the paddy crop, we sang these songs,“ Sukri said.
 
 Karnataka Janapada Academy has compiled Sukri's songs in a book to ensure their survival for posterity. All India Radio in Karwar too has recorded her songs, and preserved them in its library. Sukri has also been an activist. Married to a 42-year-old Bommu Gowda when she was just 14, Sukri lost her husband to alcohol addiction. She led an anti-liquor agitation during the 1990s in the district that resulted in the closure of many arrack outlets. Halakki continues to work in the paddy fields.
 
 President of the Uttara Kannada district wing of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat Aravind Karkikodi said, “Sukri deserves the Padma honour. Her knowledge of Halakki folklore is encyclopaedic.“
 
 VIKAS GOWDA | PADMA SHRI
 
 Vikas Gowda is a national record holder in men's discus throw. The towering, 6 feet 9 inches, 33-year-old athlete won the   medal at the 2014   and grabbed the silver at the Incheon Asian Games. The Mysuru-born athlete grew up in Maryland (US) after his father Shive Gowda, a former India coach, migrated there. Vikas studied at the University of North Carolina and became the NCAA national champion in 2006. Despite excelling at the IAAF Diamond League meets, Vikas failed to excel at the three Olympic Games. His best was the seventh place finish in the 2012 Games. At the World Championships, Vikas' best show came in Moscow in 2013 when he finished seventh.
 
 G VENKATASUBBAIAH | PADMA SHRI
 
 With eight dictionaries and over one hundred published books and papers, 104-year-old G Venkatasubbaiah is considered the father of modern Kannada lexicography. He is an authority on meanings and origins of words in Kannada. From concise dictionaries in Kannada, books on borrowed ks on borrowed words in Kannada to sociolinguis tic dictionary, his contributions are many. The son of renowned Sanskrit scholar Ganjam Thimmanaiah of Mandya, Venkatasubbaiah has been the recipient of about 30 awards including Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award and Rajyothsava Award. “While I can't write like I used to before, reading is something I won't leave till the end,“ says the centenarian.
 
 UR RAO | PADMA VIBHUSHAN
 
 The former Isro chairman and internationally-renowned space scientist, UR Rao, 85, received the Padma Bhushan 41 years ago.
 
 Born in Adampur village in Udupi, Rao has been a continuous part of India's space programme working with people like Dhawan, Vikram Sarabhai and MGK Menon, who recently passed away. He was the chairman of Isro for 10 long years between 1984-1994 after Satish Dhawan, the third chairman of Isro.
 
 Among other positions that Rao has held, he is remembered for his tenure at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.In 2016, Rao became the first Indian to be given the `Hall of Fame' award by the International Astronautical Federation.
 
 He has published more than 350 scientific and technical papers and authored many books.
 
 SHEKAR NAIK | PADMA SHRI
 
 While people look for light at the end of the tunnel, India's blind cricket team vice-captain Shekar Naik's life it up, thanks to a canal. Much like his mother and maternal grandfather, Naik was born blind. Mocked and left out by his peers in his village Harakere in Shivamogga, a fall in a canal, when he was eight, changed his life. Rushed to Bengaluru for treatment, his parents -both farmers -realized he could gain sight in one eye. Following a surgery he gained 60% sight in his right eye. Joining Shri Sharada Devi School for the Blind in 1995 turned out to be a game changer for the now 30-year-old. His interest in cricket saw him climb up from state cricket to the national team. In 2010, he was named the captain of the Indian team and he went on to win two World Cups.
 
 BHARATHI VISHNUVARDHAN | PADMA SHRI
 
 Popular as Panchabhasha Tare (star of five languages), Bharathi Vishnuvardhan has acted in films in five languages -Kannada, Tamil, Telugu Malayalam and Hindi. A heartthrob in the 1960s and 1970s, she has acted with thespian Rajkumar in 25 movies including Bangarada Manushya, Doorada Betta, Sri Krishnadevaraya, Amma, Mayor Muth anna, Madhu Malathi. She won the state award for the best actress for Sri Krishadeveraya.
 
 Born August 15, 1950, in Bengaluru, she studied at the city's Maharani's College and started as a heroine in Kannada movie Love in Bangalore (1966).
 
 She married superstar Vishnuvardhan in 1975.She also acted in a TV series Janani directed by R N Jayagopal for Doordarshan.
 
