NAGPUR: With just three days left for campaigning in Nagpur Municipal Corporation elections, all major parties are still waiting for senior party bigwigs from outside the state or even top leaders of the state to join the hustle-bustle of the poll drive and give push to their candidates’ chances. 

 With elections of ten municipal corporations, including Mumbai and Pune, in state scheduled on Feb 21, most state leaders are stuck in their home turfs finding little time for campaigning in the second capital. The situation is same for all political parties but here once again the BJP has some advantage. Both chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister   being from the city have taken care to intensify campaign in the crucial last phase.
 
 Congress had last week brought state party president and ex-chief minister Ashok Chavan to launch the campaign but it backfired as he was attacked with ink and eggs highlighting the ugly side of the party in which faction fights have reached a new high. Other leaders like Prithviraj Chavan and   have kept away, concentrating on Mumbai and Pune.
 
 Similarly, in Nationalist Congress Party, Praful Patel who enjoys Number 2 position in his party has been missing till now though he is party in-charge for whole of Vidarbha. “We have sought his time and expect him to campaign on Feb 18 along with other leaders like Fauzia Khan,” said Anil Deshmukh who has been steering the campaign in city.
 
 BJP may have advantage of Fadnavis and Gadkari, but leaders from other states like Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Chauhan and neighbouring Chhattisgarh’s Raman Singh expected to campaign here were yet to make an appearance in the city. They can make difference in prabhags dominated by Hindi-speaking and Chhattisgarhi people.
 
 Failure of Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray to campaign in Nagpur has not come as surprise for their own partymen who do not hide the fact that the Sena boss cares two hoots for Nagpur. The neglect has cost the party dear as it could not even find candidates to field in all seats. Barely 85 have the official party tag though 131 are in fray. Thackeray and most Sena leaders are busy in Mumbai where the stakes are high for it in BMC elections.
 
 BSP and RPI campaigns have also suffered as their state chiefs are conspicuous by their absence.
 
