New Delhi: By the time the fourth cut-off list was out at DU, Asha Jain was spoilt for choice: she could either admit her ward to Hindu College on North Campus, or go in for Sri Venkateswara College at the other end of the city. There were other colleges, too, on her son’s wish list. Ultimately, the mother-son duo decided to opt for the South Campus college, simply because, according to Jain, North Campus had become a “hotbed of politics”. 

 Jain said she was assured by students and parents of senior students alike that South Campus was a “peaceful” option. Incidents of violence at Ramjas College as well as Daulat Ram were still vivid in her memory, thus making it an easy decision to make. 
 
 “I am so glad that my son made it to Sri Venkateswara College in the fourth list. He got admission to BCom (Hons) at Hindu College in the second list, but I hoped with all my heart that he would get into statistics at Sri Venkateswara. I can’t be more relieved,” said Jain, who had come from Jaipur for admissions.
 
 Many parents seen at colleges like Aryabhatta, Sri Venkateswara and Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College said they were happy that their wards would be far away from the “political nuisance” of North Campus. The incidents at Ramjas and Law Faculty cropped up during discussions several times. 
 
 “What’s the use of being at institutions where   raise slogans all day? Children need a peaceful environment to focus on their studies and not be drawn into unnecessary activism and political drama,” said Rajrani Gupta, another parent. With 95%, her daughter secured admission in some of the North Campus colleges too. But, finally, she too settled for Sri Venkateswara, “reassured by the security arrangements at the college”. 
 
 Volunteers of student groups, such as ABVP and NSUI, however, maintained that the perception was incorrect, insisting that political activism was not forced on anyone. 
 
 Some outstation students said their parents had advised them to stay away from political activism. “My father was shocked to see the number of student volunteers on the campus. He repeatedly told me not to get influenced by them,” said Dinesh Raj, who hails from Varanasi and has taken admission to ARSD college. 
 
 Teachers TOI spoke to refused to be drawn into the debate.
 
