Patna: JD(U) chief   was administered the oath as Bihar chief minister for the sixth time by governor Keshari Nath Tripathi on Thursday. Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) also took oath. He will be the deputy CM. Nitish is still to form his cabinet. Lalu Prasad’s   boycotted the function held at Raj Bhavan. Union minister J P Nadda and BJP national general secretary Anil Jain represented PM Narendra Modi (NaMo) at the function.
 
  Now, CM Nitish will seek trust vote at a special assembly session convened on Friday amid RJD threat to disrupt the assembly proceedings.
  
  Nitish broke the Grand Alliance and resigned on Wednesday as CM after RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son and as his deputy Tejashwi Prasad Yadav refused to demit office despite CBI lodging an FIR against him in an alleged corruption case.
  
  Nitish has claimed the support of 132 MLAs, including 71 of JD(U) and 53 of BJP in the 243-member House. The RJD, Congress and CPI(ML) have 110 MLAs. Bhabhua BJP MLA Anand Bhushan Pandey (41) will not participate in the vote as he is undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital.
  
    allies LJP and RLSP have two MLAs each and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) has one. Four Independent MLAs have supported Nitish, who needs 122 MLAs to win the confidence vote.
  
  “The CM will present one-line proposal before the House to seek its confidence vote,” said Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Thursday.
  
  The Speaker would also formally announce the leader of the House and leader of the opposition after that.
  
  The governor on Wednesday had asked Nitish to seek confidence vote in two days. The Speaker said all the MLAs concerned have been informed by phone, letters and SMSs.
  
  Nitish would seek the trust vote sixth time since he became the CM for the first time after the 2000 assembly election, followed by those in 2005, 2010, twice in 2015.
  
  The Speaker clarified that the monsoon session earlier convened from July 28 to August 3 was now redundant as the decision had been taken by the previous government.
  
  Earlier in the day, senior members of JD(U), BJP, RLSP, LJP and HAM-S, including former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi attending the swearing-in ceremony. BJP sources said the PM could not attend the function as it was preponed to 10am. Earlier, it was planned at 5pm.
  
  Nitish and SuMo, who did not leave any opportunity to demean each other in the last four years, enjoyed the reunion after parting ways in 2013 after BJP announced NaMo as its PM candidate for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
  
  Congratulating Nitish, Nadda said the new government would take the state to greater heights. “We will work together to take Bihar to new heights. Many centrally sponsored projects, which were not moving at desired pace, will now be expedited,” Nadda said in reply to a question on the Rs1.25 lakh crore Special Package announced by the PM during 2015 Bihar assembly election.
  
  Former state water resources minister Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh said the decision to change alliance was taken in the state’s interest. Singh, who was the first person to raise the land-for-hotels deal in 2008 when Lalu was the railway minister, called it a fight against corruption.
  
  Manjhi, who was unceremoniously removed as CM by Nitish in 2014 after JD(U) was routed in the Lok Sabha polls, also welcomed the BJP-JD(U) reunion. “Subah ka bhula agar sham ko ghar ajaye use bhula nahi kahte,” he said.
