MYSURU: A forest guard died on Saturday while fighting  . Three of his colleagues suffered serious burn injuries and are undergoing treatment.

 This is Karnataka’s first such case wherein wildfire has claimed the life of a guardian of forests and injured his fellowmen.
 
 The incident happened on Karnataka-Kerala border and sources claim that the wildfire was an act of sabotage. At the time of going to press, nearly 400 acres of forested areas were destroyed in wildfire even as foresters continued their fight to put out the raging blaze.
 
 The deceased has been identified as 32-year-old Murugappa   of Sindagi taluk in Vijayapura district.
 
 Murugappa was one among a team of forest guards and watchers attending to a wildfire emergency in Kalakere range,  , on Saturday afternoon. The team members, as usual, were putting out fire by holding shrubs but Murugappa fell unconscious as fire broke out everywhere.
 
 Though he was immediately rushed to a local hospital by colleagues, doctors declared him brought dead. A doctor at Sargur hospital in HD Kote confirmed the cause of his death as asphyxiation. Meanwhile, the condition of two others, Gangadhara and Madhu who suffered burns, is stable but they’re likely to be shifted to KR hospital in Mysuru for better care.
 
 Murugappa was appointed in 2010 and was presently posted at Moleyur forest range in Bandipur. Bandipur range officials have summoned a few guards and watchers, including Murgurappa, to attend to the wildfire.
 
 Project Tiger field director   confirmed that Murugappa died in the line of duty while dousing a raging wildfire and a few others were injured. Ranga Rao, who is in Hyderabad, said the team was summoned to attend to wildfire in Bandipur when the tragedy happened around 3.30pm.
 
 Five years ago a major fire had devastated the core areas of Nagarahole, bringing nearly 6,000 acres of forest into cinders. Nagarahole and Bandipur national parks, which have highest number of tigers in India, were vulnerable, in few pockets, to fire accidents in the dry season.
 
 
