NAGPUR: Bhavya Gandhi, who used to play the character of Tappu in the popular Hindi tv series Tarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, presented a play ‘Ek dost jo zindagi badal de’ with a strong message during   at Chitnis Park, Mahal, on Friday.

 Organized by Shri Jain Seva Mandal, the play centred around a young boy, Prateek, who, after being obsessed with worldly desires is slowly seen moving away from his roots, his true nature and thus from his family. 
 
 The audience sees him as someone who is arguing all the time with his mother, his father, his elder sister and his grandfather, thus hurting them in the process. Prateek is disrespectful and flippant about the traditions and beliefs that are the mark of his culture and household and criticises everything about it all the time. 
 
 Gandhi, who plays the role of Prateek, delivers his performance with flawless élan. He boldly displays the myriad emotions which goes through the mind of a 20 years old man of today's generation and how he reacts to a situation.
 
 As the end looms near, Prateek is still adamant about his perspective. He is stubborn and refuses to entertain anyone as he believes that all the elders of his family are 'old fashioned'. 
 
 There are also a few interludes by the spiritual leader of the community, Gurudev, as he preaches important lessons and enlightens Prateek and his family.
 
 A comparison is also made to the leaves of a tree which garnered much applause and awe from the audience. As the leaves tends to die after falling from a tree, the same is the case with a child. He slowly loses himself when he distances himself from those people who loves him the most, his family.
 
 The play is written by Sejal Punda and directed by Hemant Shah. The programme began with a representative from the community welcoming and felicitating the dignitaries for the event. Rakesh Patni, Naresh Jain, Praful Doshi, Jitendra Toravat and   were present at the event. This was followed by a welcome song by the ladies of the   and then the play was presented to the audience. 
 
