Spanning summers and winters, the war for the Iron Throne wages on. A queen raises an army, and that brings with it twisted plots, lust and intrigue-led episodes, and a game that renegades, liars, cheaters and honest men should play to win' this is a brief synopsis of the Game of Thrones series, which is the stuff TN politics is flirting with of late. The goings-on 24*7 in namma Tamil Nadu arasiyal sometimes seems so fantastic, it seem to have been pulled straight out of a masala flick... Like a bus full of MLAs driven to an undisclosed destination!!

 Maybe it's this over-filminess that has made Kollywood stars, who earlier always deadpanned a my-lips-are-sealed expression when asked about politics, come out and voice their views online. And OMG, are they speaking about it, tweeting about it, and even writing posts about it' They're clear about whom they are supporting, and what needs to be done. And while we're still holding our hearts at this sudden turnaround, what with   (must love him for his once-bitten-never-shy attitude, for he started with a reference to the Vishwaroopam controversy) asking all stars to come out in support of what they believe in, the lines have been drawn, the clans have been created, the game is on'
 
 
 @ActorMadhavanplsTalk on crisis inTN.We have a voice with decible levels not conducive 2 bad politics U can also diagree.but do it loud pls (sic)
 
 
 Sir we have always discussed how TN should be the BEST state in the world leave alone India.with the talent and potential we have we are' we should have been an example to the world.all it needs is the right intent and the right leadership to harness that volcanic expertise'This is the time to make sure that we nudge it in the right direction..the whole state needs to believe that and make themselves heard and I am very sure that will happen as this the Right time.. speak up folks .. this is YOUR time to be heard 
 
 
 7 th of februarya few years back made me understand how people's love can make an artiste win against tyranny. Was humbled & stay that way...
 
 We've wasted our freedom years gambling our fanchise on wrong & corrupt politicians. Let's stop blaming them Lets become incorruptable....
 
 Don't breakTN in2 a country. I promise, All India will fight 4TN in a civil war of Ahinsa. None might die but the ignorant will come alive
 
 
 Music director and BJP member, Gangai Amaran called for a press conference in Tirupur only to call   a 'real man'. 'I was directly affected by Sasikala. She was an accomplice in the criminal act that led to the grabbing of my property. Is it fair that she is allowed to govern the state.' Gangai Amaran also demanded clarification of doubts about the mysterious circumstances surrounding  's death. 'Why should   rush to become chief minister when the DA case against her is still pending? Even if she has the support of the MLAs, it is Panneerselvam who has the support of the people,' he said
 
 
 
 Actor  's tweeted, 'Game of Thrones level drama in our state. The people have a right to know. We should not be taken for granted. Speak! Demand! #TN #Democracy #OPS in Marina! TN politics. #GOT ha! Live Game of Thrones! And House of Cards' 
 
 Arulnithi, Karunanidhi's grandson, tweeted, "Bold speech OPS sir. You have been honest to the people of TN by letting them know the truth."(sic)
 
 Arvind Swamy tweeted, "Please contact your MLA, local party reps& tell them to represent your wishes on the choice of the CM, democratically. Whoever u might support' Your choice is ur own. No one should judge u for that. But tell ur reps so that they know who the ppl in their constituency want' This is not a kingdom, there are no heirs' If the MLAs who are 'free' now claim that they were coerced and detained against their wishes, they must go to court and present their side' President's rule & re-election seems the best option'
 
 Karunakaran, 'Hope Governor is not going to resign' and he also tweeted, 'Longer Stay of MLA s in one resort wish resort owner doesnt claim to become CM??'
 
 Arya, who has not uttered a squeak about politics till now, tweeted, 'Great bold speech by OPS sir at the right time' hats off #TnPolitics'
 
 Music composer D. Imman wrote, 'There it goes! Shows signs of hope in prevails! #OPS'(sic) 
 
 Shanthanu Bhagyaraj's tweet, 'What a Twist in # TN Politics !!!!! He's got the guts. A salute to him!!!' (sic) He also tweeted, A #Mupparimanam in #TN politics'I won't be surprised if TamilNadu has a power cut in many parts' How many of u think dis cud happen?
 
