Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court dismissed on Friday a petition seeking a   into the allegation of kidnap and extortion in relation to the exchange of demonetized currency notes by former corporator   ( ) and his two sons. 

 Declining to exercise the extraordinary jurisdiction of the court, Justice Aravind Kumar noted that the correctness, or otherwise, of the complaints registered against the petitioners has to be decided by the jurisdictional court as it doesn’t fall within the domain of a constitutional court, like the high court.
 
 As regards grant of bail, the court observed that the jurisdictional court would decide this in accordance with law.
 
 Nagaraj, who is at present under judicial custody along with his two sons, N Gandhi and N Shastri, sought the court’s intervention, saying that false cases had been registered against him to finish him off both politically and physically, by persons inimical to him.
 
 During the hearing, the counsel for the petitioners said the police have not even bothered to interrogate the complainants who allegedly approached Nagaraj with demonetized currency.
 
 On the other hand, the government advocate told the court that the petitioners are not cooperating with the investigation and so far, Rs 14.8crore has been recovered from them and the probe is under progress.
 
 Apart from seeking a CBI probe, Nagaraj also prayed that the court monitor investigations and trial of the cases by a single court.
 
 Khata change: Officials told to deposit cash
 
 Taking serious note of the lack of assistance in adjudication of a case, the Karnataka high court directed the chief executive officer, Bengaluru Rural Zilla Panchayat and panchayat development officer, Kallubalu Grama Panchayat, to deposit Rs 20,000 each from their personal resources on or before July 28.
 
 Justice Vineet Kothari also directed them to be personally present before the court on that day and show cause as to why the money deposited by them should not be awarded as costs to the petitioners.
 
 The court took this step after the two officials failed to explain why the khata of the petitioners (Bharatamma and three others) in respect of lands situated in Jigani hobli, Anekal taluk, was suddenly changed from Form 11(A) to 11(B) (illegal property) which resulted in banks refusing to lend them money.
 
 The court, while staying the orders effecting change of khata to 11(B), observed that there is a lack of effective assistance from the two officers concerned.
 
 The petitioners had contended that the property purchased by them is in an approved layout, which was sanctioned by the Planning Authority. They also said the land was converted under Section 95 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, and the khata was transferred as per Rule 28 of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj (Grama Panchayat Budgeting and Accounting) Rules, 2006, in Form 9 & 11.
 
 
