Madurai: The Supreme Court banning five chemicals in fireworks — lithium, arsenic, lead, antimony and mercury — will not have any effect on the fireworks industry in Sivakasi as all these have never been used there, according to the makers. The manufacturers claimed that the fireworks this Diwali will have all its sparkle and colour because the chemicals they use for these effects were tested and proven safe for handling. 

 A Supreme Court bench had on Monday ordered the ban on using the five chemical susbstances considering the harmful effects of these polluting substances. The bench also directed CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board) and PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation) to lay down standards on composition of chemicals in fireworks. President of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA) A Asaithambi said that the fireworks industry in Sivakasi did not even use chlorides unlike the Chinese industry but only potassium nitrate and aluminium powder as raw materials. As it was mentioned in the court, bismuth oxide and not antimony is used for sparkling effect, he said. 
 
 Former president of TANFAMA, G Abiruben said that fireworks manufacturers at Sivakasi had not even seen these chemicals. “Other than the samples we come across in laboratory, we have not seen these in chemicals market here anywhere”, he said. Abiruben also ruled out the possibilities of the banned chemicals being used outside Sivakasi. “The components used in Indian fireworks industry are tested and proven safe for handling and environment”, he stated. 
 
 The manufacturers also contended that PESO’s Fireworks Research and Development Centre situated at Sivakasi was of great use in this regard. The centre collected random samples from all units testing them for their composition. A few years ago, Red Lead was tested on trial basis for its effects by a few manufacturers but FRDC stepped in and banned its use, the manufacturers observed. Hence they are optimistic that the Supreme Court verdict would not affect their regular production which was in full swing for the upcoming Diwali season. 
 
 
