PUNE:   and those in the business of  , have both expressed concerns about the   which says that customers can refuse to pay the   if they are dissatisfied with service provided by a  

 The Union government has already asked states to ensure hotels and restaurants display the information that service charge is optional on their premises, those running restaurants and hotels in the city believe this will create a lot of confusion about paying the amount.
 
 On Tuesday , the issue took over as a hot topic of debate on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and even WhatsApp groups. Besides citizens, restaurateurs and hoteliers debated the practicality of implementing such an order. Sunil Chandani, owner of The Hidden Place chain of bars and pubs in the city expressed his reservations about the order. “It would be disastrous to leave the choice to customers about paying or not paying the service charge.Levying this cost should be the discretion of the restaurants that clearly inform patrons of the charge. Service charge is nothing evil, and we pay a tax to the government on the service charge we levy . Misleading customers, or charging it in a hidden manner, however, is wrong“.
 
 Chandani compared this with the surge pricing charged by taxi aggregators and cost of choosing a seat in an airline. “Those are also nothing but a cost one pays for availing a service. Similarly, the charge we take for service is for the quality of service that we provide,“ he said. Meeta Makecha, the proprietor of The Flour Works in Kalyaninagar says she is contemplating including this element in the bill as a reward for the stewards. “I have not levied a service charge till now, but it's a fact that customers here are very poor tippers to the staff attending to them. Things have got ten worse since demo netization as people are being even more careful with cash in hand. Tipping is important and is a part of the salary of the waiters, and it is something they look forward to. So an official `service' charge actually helps to compensate for the lack of tips. However, it should be the discretion of each restaurant,“ she said.
 
 There won't be an official diktat on the issue from the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association, its president Ganesh Shetty clarified. “Pune's food and beverage mar ket is very competitive and people do consider every cost before deciding on the place where they will eat. Service charge as a percentage of the food and drinks bill works out to a lot in the final total. Most restaurants and hotels here include this cost in the food prices itself. All this money goes to the staff or to pay for breakages and losses incurred while providing a service.Besides, at places where a service charge is levied, waiters and stewards don't expect to be tipped later,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 In the United States of America a customary 20% service charge is levied by a fine dining restaurant when a party of more than six is served. Patrons are generally expected to tip in the range of 15%.
 
 In France tipping is not compulsory but is recommended. The bill in restau rants and cafés usually includes a 15% tip. It is referred to `service compris` However, it is customary to leave some small change while paying the bill unless the customer is dissatisfied with the service.If the service is not included in the price, `service non compris', a 15% tip is customary.In chic restaurants, however, patrons leave a generous tip.
 
 A service charge of 15% is included in the menu price in restaurants, cafés and bars in Germany. But it is typical to `round up' the amount to an even figure. A rule of thumb is to add 3-5%, generally ending with a full Euro amount.German waiters and waitresses are paid a salary and do not live off of tips.
 
 In the United Kingdom tipping is generally unnecessary , but if one feels the service was good and a patron wants to show appreciation, they may leave a little extra cash while paying the bill.
 
