HYDERABAD: The recent suspension of two policemen from Miyapur station who did not register a complaint of land grab by an elderly man highlights the difficulty people face when they turn to the police for justice. For the past two years, senior Telangana police have been saying it is easy to register a first information report (FIR) in a local police station, but in reality, complainants are often turned away by apathetic or corrupt officers.

 In August 2016, when Quddus Zaida, a flower vendor, went to Dabeerpura police station to register a complaint against employment agents who duped his wife, it took two months of pleading and inter vention by TOI before he could register a case. He said the agents promised her a job in Saudi Arabia, but the employers kept her captive. Police refused to listen saying Zaida had to prove there was an agreement between the agents and the victim. “I've lost all hope in the police. My confidence would have been restored if they had arrested the accused instead of allowing them to get bail,“ he said.
 
 Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure says a police officer cannot refuse to register a written complaint for a cognizable offence, and get it signed by the complainant.
 
 “On receiving a complaint, police should register an FIR immediately , without going into the merit or demerit of the complaint.   and high courts have said the same thing in several judgements,“ said senior criminal lawyer   said.During the investigation, if the complaint is found to be false, it can be closed after informing the court. “In reality, since local police have to answer their seniors during review meetings, they delay registering a case.The situation is worse in rural areas,“ he said.
 
 In the case of the senior citizen from Miyapur, a probe showed that inspector K Ramesh and sub-inspector Ramulu had colluded with a realtor and refused to register a case of land grab. It was only after the 70-year-old went to Cyberabad police commissioner   that a complaint was registered and an inquiry into the policemen's conduct made. In some cases, victims have approached local courts after police refused to register FIRs.
 
 Director-general of police   said all police officers had been clearly told that FIR registration is mandatory . “We have sensitised all the officers and no one will be spared, as is evident from the Miyapur case, if an FIR is not registered,“ he said. Hyderabad police commissioner   could not be reached for comment.
 
 Station house officers said there are practical problems to registering an FIR as soon as a complaint is made, especially in civil disputes or atrocities against SCSTs. “In some situations, we might be playing into the hands of people with malafide intentions. So we look into it before registering an FIR,“ said an inspector. “In some case of vehicle theft, we wait for a few days because the accused might abandon the vehicle, in which case we can just hand it over to the complainant without going to the courts,“ he said.
 
 Cyberabad commissioner Sandeep Shandilya said: “If any station house officer delays registering an FIR, people should take up the issue with the assistant commissioner of police or deputy commissioner of police ,“ he said.
 
