PUNE:   Antara Das' family members are finding it difficult to believe the evidence, especially the  , obtained by the police, which show the arrested suspect   in Bengaluru on December 23, the day the girl was brutally murdered. 

 While Antara's father, mother and twin sister have returned to Kolkata, the family members told TOI on Sunday that Santosh's approach showed that he knew the moves the police would make while investigating the case. 
 
 "We find it very hard to believe Santosh Kumar Gupta's claims that he was in Bengaluru at the time of the incident. We want to know the name and address of the company in which he works. These days, it is very easy to come up with back dated video footage. When the police detained Santosh, he was ready with all the proof, including the CCTV footage. Why was Santosh so ready? It clearly means that he knew the police would get to him, the kind of investigations police would carry out, etc. He had prepared himself for the same," Antara's uncle Panchanan Das said.
 
 Antara was murdered only a few meters away from her company Capgemini's campus gate on December 23. The police detained Santosh, who works in Bengaluru, on December 27. The next day the police stated that Santosh had been arrested and brought to Pune. With the police calling him the main conspirator, they have recovered CCTV footage as well as other evidence which shows Santosh in Bengaluru in his office on the day of the murder. Going by the evidence, the police too have not been able to ascertain anything as yet. 
 
 "The police have not told us much about the investigation. However, it is clear that Santosh was harassing Antara since long. A day after the murder, he sent Facebook messages to Antara's sister and some of her friends stating that he wanted to explain his point of view as his number was found in Antara's purse. We find it very hard to believe all these things and it will immediately strike anyone that he is lying. In our view, he is fully prepared and knows what he is doing," Das pointed out.
 
  Parents wanted to get 
 
  Santosh married 
 
  With the police having detained another person, who also allegedly harassed and stalked Antara, Santosh's mother Parvati Devi told TOI that talks of Santosh's marriage were on. "His marriage was almost fixed once but things didn't work out between the families. I don't know much but while studying in Bengaluru Santosh would work in a call centre to earn his own living. He was not in love with her. He might have called her since she was a friend," Parvati Devi said. 
 
  Was Antara meeting someone known that day? 
 
  With the cops not sharing much details, sources said that there was a possibility Antara was expecting to meet someone known to her and didn't expect an attack. 
 
  That night saw Antara entering in the register that she will be taking an autorickshaw on her way back home. She, however, didn't hail one of the ones that are always present in front of the gate to her office. Instead, she walked along an unlit pavement for around 500 meters before the attack. 
 
  The eyewitness who had helped the girl said he had seen some commotion in the form of an argument between her and a man. Police sources said that if it were an incident of robbery, the argument wouldn't have taken place and the act would have been instant. Moreover, nothing was taken from the victim, which suggests the motive was not robbery. The fact that there was an argument hints that the girl knew the man but had not expected the attack, sources said. 
 
  A police officer shared, "Though we can't be certain, there are two possibilities - one, that Antara had walked down the pavement to meet someone known; secondly, the man knew her office timing and that she would be walking, hence he was waiting for her. However, the second possibility looks dim. It can also very well be that the man was unknown but mentioned someone known to her leading to the argument. The spot, it appears, was chosen carefully as it was in total darkness." 
 
 
