Yes, he didn’t get to bowl a single ball in the 10th season of Indian premier League (IPL). But ask the Hyderabadi medium fast bowler   if he is dejected and the 22-year-old smiles before saying, “Absolutely not.” 
“It was a great experience to be in the dressing room with legends of the game such as   and  . It was a great opportunity to learn and I made sure I make the most out of it,” says the youngster who was bought by Team Delhi for the second consecutive season this year for his base price of 10 lakh. The 22-year-old was chosen on the merit of his exceptional performance in the domestic season.
 Prod him about the specifics what he learned and he says, “I learned the knuckle ball and have been practising it ever since. It is kind of a slower ball which is bowled using finger nails. And yes, throughout the tournament I observed Zaheer bhai and how he makes his field placements and plays with the mind of the batsmen,” says the left arm bowler who has played just five matches in four seasons of the T20 league since 2014 bagging 11 wickets.
 A shy guy, who carefully chooses his words, Milind is an ardent fan of legendary left arm pacer   and when he is at his best is capable of making any batsman dance on the crease with some serious swing. “No left arm fast bowler in the world can say he doesn't admire Wasim Akram. But in my case I have to add another name to it — Zaheer Khan,” says the Hyderabadi.
 All the hysteria surrounding the big moolah in the league doesn’t affect this pacer as he was happy being a part of a team which had a strong pace attack comprising Zaheer Khan, Mohammed Shami,  , Pat Cummins and Kagisu Rabada in the dugout. “It was an amazing atmosphere in the training ground and dressing room. Zaheer bhai is a very inspiring person. He thoroughly guided me through different situations and gave tips on how to bowl and when. It’s not about money as no money can buy the guidance I got being among players of such international repute. Also, the league is like a selection tournament to get into the national team. You get to compete against the best in the world, so it is very important for us,” says Milind. 
 Sounds rational, after all who wouldn’t want to be coached by cricketing legends such as The Wall. “Rahul (Dravid) sir is an amazing personality. Let alone his achievements on the field, the way he assesses a player and boosts confidence, it is out of this world. He is so thorough about the game. I am blessed to have got this change to hone my skills under his tutelage,” he says.
 With the T20 league nearing its completion and the domestic season at a distance, Milind plans to chill at home for some time and get back to the practice ground afresh. “Now it’s the time to wait for opportunities. When the domestic season resumes next year I will try to repeat my performances and catch the eye of the selectors. One can only try to control the things he can,” he concludes.
