KHATKAR KALAN (NAWANSHAHR): Punjab power and irrigation minister  , who paid tributes to the martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in this village of Nawanshahr on Thursday on behalf of the state government, said eradicating drug menace from the state and rehabilitating addicts would be the real tribute to the martyrs.

 He said chief minister   had deputed him to attend the function as he was in Delhi for meeting the Prime Minister and Union finance minister to raise various state issues and concerns, including SYL canal and wheat procurement. Rana Gurjit said the Congress government’s topmost priority was to fulfil the commitment of the CM of making Punjab a drug-free state.
 
 “The seriousness of Amarinder Singh to completely eradicate drugs can be judged from the fact that he had called the cabinet meeting within two days of assuming his office to give signal to all ministers and state officials that he is committed to fulfilling all promises he had made with people of the state. He is appointing the best police officials to curb this menace at the earliest. No one involved in drug trade will be spared,” he said while addressing the gathering.
 
 He also instructed district officials to ensure in future that at least one seat should be reserved for the family member of martyrs in the first row at the stage. On lack of attention paid to Doaba region by the last regime, he said that, “Now, we will strengthen the irrigation facility in the region by setting up an advanced irrigation system of channelising water from river to farms through pipes.”
 
 ‘Govt committed to realising martyrs’ dream’
 
 Hussainiwala: Punjab government led by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was committed to making the dreams of martyrs come true and put an end to corruption, unemployment, illiteracy and drugs, said state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal while paying tributes to  , Rajguru and Sukhdev Singh, Raj Mata Vidyawati and Batukeshwar Dutt and others at the Martyrs’ Memorial here on Thursday. Addressing a state-level function held in their memory, Manpreet said that the races which forget their martyrs never flourish and slip into oblivion. He said that the state government would spend Rs 4 crore on beautification and modernization of the memorial here.
 
 
