A birthday party ended on a horrifying note for three teenage boys, after one of their fathers beat them all brutally for returning home late.

 The Bund Garden police have booked  , a resident of Geeta Society on  , Bund Garden, for assaulting the boys with a wooden stick, after 17-year-old  , a Class XII student of City International School, filed a complaint.
 
 It all began when Taha planned a midnight birthday celebration for Memon’s son, Aftab. Taha and a common friend, Annas Khan, both went to wish Aftab on Monday at midnight. Afterwards, all three of them went for a long drive to Viman Nagar and Kalyani Nagar. They returned around 3.30 am and found Aftab’s father waiting for them at the gate with a baton. As soon as the three teens alighted from the car, Memon assaulted his son brutally. So enraged was he, that he did not even spare his son’s friends. He hit Taha right in the face, causing him to bleed. Annas sustained injuries to his chest and Aftab, too, was hurt.
 
 Finally, shaken and bleeding, Taha and Annas managed to escape.
 
 Later, Taha’s parents took him to a private hospital in Wanowrie. Speaking to Mirror, his mother Alefia Hundekari, a practicing lawyer who helped him file the complaint, said, “The kids were so excited about wishing their friend at midnight on his birthday. They went for a drive and lost track of time. When they came back to Geeta Society around 3.30 am, Memon beat them all brutally. My son and Annas managed to escape after Memon threatened to put them in jail. They got to Hotel Aurora Towers and Taha called me from there, saying he didn’t know how to come home. I booked a cab to pick them up.”
 
 “We took Taha to hospital — his nose was still bleeding and he has a fracture. He was spitting blood due to his injuries. I am shocked that a parent would take such extreme measures,” she added.
 
 Concerned for Aftab, too, Hundekari had gone to the school to check on him, only to be told that Memon has removed his son from the institute.
 
 Annas’s family refused to comment on the matter, though he, too, was injured.
 
 Senior police inspector of Bund Garden police station, Hanif Mujawar, told Mirror, “We have registered the offence under sections 323 and 324 of the Indian Penal Code. Our team went over to the house, but the accused was not there. We also tried calling him, but his phone is switched off. The investigation is on.”
 
