Madurai: Of late, Madurai Kamaraj University has been facing a disturbing scenario in enrolments to various post-graduate courses -- hundreds of seats have been remaining vacant and this has been particularly glaring in social sciences and linguistics. Of the nearly 900 seats available in the last academic year, the enrolment was only for 557 that too mostly in science streams. There were no takers for arts programmes like History, Sociology and languages.

 The declining admissions in streams like political science, public administration, philosophy, journalism and sociology has been a matter of concern, according to   registrar in-charge Dr G Arumugam. In order to boost the enrolment, the university is planning various measures this academic year.
 
 The measures are based on a brainstorming session carried out at the university where all heads of departments came out with suggestions. “We have decided to keep banners in front of all departments with details like resource persons, their credentials and number of PhDs carried out. We have also decided to distribute pamphlets about MKU and various programmes offered here in all our affiliated colleges urging undergraduate students to consider pursuing their masters in the university”, he told TOI. 
 
 The university has three methods of enrolling students for post graduate programmes. For those like MSc Genomics, Microbiology and Marine Biology a national-level entrance examinations is held at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. Entrance exams are also held at Tamil Nadu centres for courses like MA Tamil, English, MSc Mathematics, Geography and Chemistry. The national-level exams have been scheduled for May 27 & 28 and state-level exams on June 18th. “We have extended the application time for both these examinations. For national-level entrance, the time has been extended till May 15 and for state-level entrance till May 30”, the registrar said. The university is also mulling the option of making its website more informative for students looking out for post-graduate studies. 
 
 However, the university is in a real spot when it comes to programmes which don’t require an entrance examination. Linguistics and Sociology are all part of this set where there are no takers. For instance, there were only 20 candidates for the 30 seats in MA History last year and no student for MA Sanskrit. To boost enrolment for these programmes, the university has decided to issue immediate admission for candidates applying for these programmes. 
 
 The lack of enrolment in these programmes not requiring entrance – 23 altogether – results in mediocre strength in the university. Science programmes get filled when the academic year starts but arts programmes remain vacant, according to university officials.
 
 
