HYDERABAD: Call it an irony if you will, but none of the engineering stream toppers of the Telangana State Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (TS Eamcet) examination this year will be appearing for the counselling process as they are gunning for seats in the   (IITs).

 When contacted, all the toppers termed the state Eamcet as just a dry run and said they are extremely hopeful of bagging admissions to India’s premier tech institution.
 
 Sailendra Bathi Babu, who stood fourth in Eamcet, said, “I secured fifth rank in the JEE Main exams in the OBC category and I am confident that I will get a rank in single digits in the JEE Advanced exams too. So, I will be skipping counselling.”
 
 Sailendra, who is described as a silent and reserved person by his peers and teachers, said he wants to pursue his Bachelor’s in computer science from   and eventually become a researcher.
 
 Echoing the sentiment, Mohan Abhyas, who topped the All India JEE (Main) exam and secured fifth rank in Eamcet, said, “I am the first in my family to pursue a serious academic career in a field like engineering. All the other family members have stuck to small-scale businesses. I am interested in studying physics from an IIT. My aim is to become a scientist one day.”
 
 Throwing light on this trend, educational experts said it’s the same story every year as meritorious students tend to write the state entrance test just for practice. “Out of the top 500 ranks, almost 90% of the students will not opt for Eamcet counselling as they are quite sure they will bag an IIT seat. I think the trend is more or less the same every year,” said VVL Sekhar, executive dean, Narayana Junior College.
 
 Another thing common to all Eamcet toppers is that they have appeared for at least three entrance exams. 
 
 “I studied 14 hours a day and appeared for six entrance exams in various states and institutes. But my aim is to secure admission in IIT Bombay and pursue a career in computer science. I will let go of my Eamcet seat if I get a good rank in the JEE Advanced,” said G Jayanth Harsha, who topped the TS Eamcet this year.
 
