JAIPUR: When the voting for   concluded in the   on Monday, 199 out of the total 200 members of the   exercised their franchise. 

 Barring senior Congress leader Ashok Gehlot, who cast his vote in Gujarat, all other MLAs started coming to the assembly from 10am. Urban development and housing minister Shrichand Kriplani, who was the polling agent of NDA candidate Ram Nath Kovind, was the first to vote. He was followed by Congress leader Govind Dotasara. The whole process got over by 2pm.
 
 In the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, the ruling BJP has 161 MLAs, while the Congress has 24. Kovind has the backing of four MLAs from the National People’s Party, two from Zamindara Party and four independent MLAs. 
 
 Former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, who is backed by the Congress and other opposition parties, received support of two BSP MLAs and is expected to have the confidence of three other independent MLAs. 
 
 Leaders from both BJP and Congress though claimed that there would be cross voting in favour of their candidate. “I am confident that some friends from the Opposition will listen to their conscience and will vote for our candidate,” said Arun Chaturvedi, social justice and empowerment minister. 
 
 Similar claims were made by Congress who maintained that their MLAs were birds of the same feather. “If you see the profile of our candidate, which is incredible, I don’t see a reason why anyone will not vote for her. I am hopeful that even some from BJP will change their mind,” said Congress MLA Vishvendra Singh. 
 
 Disgruntled MLA from BJP, Ghanshyam Tiwari, extended hi support to Kovind. “I don’t see the soul and conscience as two different entities and my soul is with the party,” said Tiwari.
 
 Suspended MLAs Manoj Nyangli (BSP) and Hanuman Beniwal (independent) also came and voted for the presidential candidate. 
 
 Beniwal refused to comment on who he has voted for but Nyangli candidly mentioned his support for Meira Kumar. 
 
 “Earlier, I wanted to boycott the presidential elections as we oppose both (Congress and BJP) parties in Rajasthan. Both candidates are not of our choice. But I went inside and gave my support to one candidate,” said Beniwal. Nayangli said that that he followed the party line as BSP supremo Mayawati has extended her support to the UPA candidate.
 
  “The BJP government rule is marred by terror and they are governing on the force of bullets. It would be a mistake to support them or their candidate,” said Nyangli. 
 
 Four NPP MLAs are part of the Opposition in the assembly but gave their support to Kovind. Kirodilal Meena said that their party was part of the NDA at the Centre, but they would continue to oppose the policies of Vasundhara Raje government.
 
 
