MUMBAI: From Rs 5 to Rs 50, entry to the iconic Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and zoo in Byculla could get 10 times more expensive. With the seven Humboldt penguins being kept for public viewing from Saturday,   plans to increase fees to enter the zoo and special exhibit area. 

 Civic officials said that while the entry fees for the zoo is Rs 5, they plan to increase it to Rs 50. While for anyone coming to watch only the penguins, they plan to charge Rs 50, if someone is keen on visiting the zoo and even watch the penguins, the proposed charge is Rs 100.
 
 At the inauguration of the   enclosure at the zoo on Friday evening, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said that there was a need to increase charges. “The money will be for the upkeep of the zoo and welfare of animals. We want to develop it as a family entertainment spot and if someone comes along with their children, it will be free for the children. Only if someone comes alone, they will have to pay for it,” said Mehta.
 
 Shiv Sena party chief Uddhav Thackeray later he said he had discussed the entry fee issue with the commissioner and a decision had yet to be taken. 
 
 The zoo sees about 6,000 visitors daily on weekdays, while on weekends it goes up to 15,000, zoo officials said. The Rs 5 entry fee was started in 2000, prior to which the charge was Rs 2, the officials said. 
 
 Open space activist Nayana Kathpalia from the NGO NAGAR said that while the civic authorities should consider an increase in entry fees, charging Rs 50 to enter the zoo alone was too high. “By doing so, they are discouraging people from visiting the zoo. They can consider a charge for the special exhibit area, but increasing the entry charge for the zoo to Rs 50 is too high. A nominal increase could be considered,” said Kathpalia.
 
 Dadar-based activist Ashok Rawat said that the civic body must realise that the zoo and gardens were means of education at a very reasonable cost. “If charges are increased to Rs 50, it will become feasible only for tourists or those who can afford paying so much to enter,” said Rawat. 
 
 The penguins will be on public view from Saturday morning. For now, there will be no extra cost, besides the zoo entry charge of Rs 5, for visitors.
 
 
 
