MUMBAI: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s remarks against corruption caused huge embarrassment for state   chief Raosaheb Danve. Laying the foundation stone of a road project in Jalna, Danve’s home town, Gadkari observed that “he never had Laxmi Darshan and if the work was not up to the mark, the contractor would be crushed under a bulldozer”. 

 Some months ago, during the campaign for the municipal council polls, Danve had asked voters not to reject ‘Laxmi Darshan’ on the day off polling. Later, the state election commission had asked the Jalna collector to inquire into remarks and examine if it violated the model code of conduct. 
 
 Gadkari’s statement was widely discussed. Gadkari claimed that so far the NDA government had sanctioned financial assistance of Rs 65,000 crore for Marathwada. Gadkari submitted that ever since he took over the transport ministry’s reins, his department has awarded contracts worth Rs six lakh crore across the country, but never met any of the contractors associated with the work. In a bid to usher in transparency, Gadkari has ensured that the smallest proposal is brought before the Cabinet and put the tender documents in public domain.
 
 SRA makes headlines
 
 Bureaucrat Vishwas Patil, a 1996-batch IAS officer, appears to be in more trouble following new disclosures in the Slum Redevelopment Authority (SRA) after his retirement. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis nominated Deepak Kapoor to the SRA after Patil demitted office. It was found that in his last month in office, Patil cleared a record number of crucial proposals, including the controversial MP Mill compound project that was also approved by housing minister Prakash Mehta. Fadnavis later stayed the plan. Patil claimed that he cleared 105 proposals in the last month, but now several entries are missing from the register. A day after Patil’s retirement, Fadnavis got Mhada vice-chairman and managing director Milind Mhaiskar to hold additional charge till a bureaucrat was appointed. Mhaiskar’s aides took possession of all SRA files. A former chief minister felt that at a juncture when the credibility of SRA is at stake, Fadnavis should appoint a retired HC judge to probe into all the decisions taken during Patil’s tenure. 
 
 Home truths
 
 Legislators have made interesting suggestions to resolve their “housing problem” in view of the bad condition of Manora hostel in south Mumbai. BJP legislator Anil Gote wrote to assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde that since the Adarsh tower is lying vacant, these flats should be allotted to legislators on a temporary basis. There was a row over Adarsh tower after it was found that some politicians and bureaucrats had illegally secured flats in the tower and there were violation of green laws and abuse of power.
 
 The ministry of environment had passed an order to demolish the tower. After Gote’s letter,   leader Bhaskar Jadhav approached of BJP legislator and developer Mangal Prabhat Lodha in connection with MLAs’ housing issues.
 
