PATNA: Conviction of former Lok Sabha MP   by a lower court in Jharkhand’s   district on Thursday in a case pertaining to murder of Masrakh MLA Ashok Singh has heated up the already charged political atmosphere in Bihar. The court has fixed May 23 to pronounce the quantum of punishment.
 
  Prabhunath, who joined Janata Dal in 1995 and later became a member of Janata Dal (United), is at present with the RJD and is considered close to both Lalu Prasad and Bihar CM  .
  
  The BJP came down heavily on the Mahagathbandhan government, particularly chief minister Nitish Kumar, for being associated with tainted politicians. Senior BJP functionary and leader of opposition in legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi alleged Singh was a close confidante of Nitish as well as Lalu.
  
  “People like Prabhunath and former RJD MP   are pillars of Nitish government. Singh was among the first few persons who met Lalu after the I-T raids on properties associated with him and his kin on Tuesday,” Modi said.
  
  The RJD, on the other hand, has ruled out any immediate step to suspend Prabhunath from the party. “He has the legal right to approach higher judiciary challenging the judgement of the lower court. Hence, there are no plans as such to suspend his party membership and there should not be any political comment on court’s verdict,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said.
  
  Prabhunath was initially with the JD (U) and he crossed over to the RJD in August 2010 after losing from the Maharjganj assembly constituency in 2009 on a JD (U) ticket. He remained surrounded with controversies throughout his political career as around 20 cases have been lodged against him with different police stations in Saran, Siwan and Patna districts. The Nitish government had also decided in December 2009 to provide X-category security to Prabhunath, claiming threat perception to him.
  
  While Congress functionaries refrained from commenting on the court’s verdict, JD (U) netas said Prabhunath’s conviction will have no impact on the grand alliance government in Bihar.
  
  “It is a judicial process. The court has given its verdict after going through the required legal procedure. Hence, there should not be any allegation-counter allegation on the court’s verdict. Moreover, there would be no impact of the verdict on the politics in Bihar,” said JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh.
  
  Congress functionary   said the judgement of the court should be accepted by all.
