CHANDIGARH:   (PU) syndicate in its meeting on January 21 would decide if PU-CET (UG) could be conducted without the subjects of biotech and computer science in 2017.

 A committee constituted by vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover on December 20, 2016, and headed by dean university instructions Prof Dinesh Gupta has suggested that the PU-CET (UG) entrance test should not include biotechnology and computer science subjects. The CET should be conducted only for mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology and not computer science and biotechnology, which were actually optional subjects, the proposal said. The committee observed that these two subjects were not taught in all the schools.
 
 Moreover, the committee has also suggested that while declaring the PU-CET (UG), merit should not mentioned because merit was actually determined after taking into consideration the weightage of class XII marks during the admission process. It was suggested in the meeting that two different ranks given in the result card and shown on website for admission use to create confusion among students and they find it misleading.
 
 Besides this, the agenda to appoint standing committee for 2017 to deal with the cases of alleged misconduct and use of unfair means in connection with the examinations would also be tabled in the syndicate meeting. Moreover, the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has directed the varsity to form a fresh committee to inquire into the sexual harassment allegations made by a professor against the vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover. Resultantly, the syndicate will also decide on the members of the committee to be formed on the directions of MHRD to inquire into the matter and submit a report in time-bound manner.
 
 The syndicate would also take up the extension of the agreement with the postal department to extend the date of services of submission of the examination and revaluation fee at the post offices. The syndicate would also take up the proposal to hike tuition fee of traditional courses by five to six times and self-financed courses by 12 to 13 times from the next academic session.
 
 Syndicate meet
 
 Panjab University syndicate to decide if PU-CET (UG) can be conducted with subjects of biotech and computer science 
 
 Committee headed by dean university instructions suggested PU-CET (UG) entrance test should not include biotechnology and computer science as they were optional subjects
 
 Committee also suggested while declaring PU-CET (UG), merit should not mentioned 
 
