BENGALURU: NR  's compassionate capitalism philosophy has received support from several US based management experts and thinkers.

 Vijay Govindarajan, Coxe distinguished professor at Tuck at Dartmouth, US, said he firmly believes in capitalism, but not in greed. A company's purpose, he said, cannot be to maximise financial returns; the purpose has to be to do good. He noted that the Fortune 150 steel company Nucor subscribes to this philosophy and happens to be also the most profitable steel company. And its CEO compensation is not 500 times that of the steel worker, as is typical in other Fortune 500 companies. Govindarajan said other companies following compassionate capitalism ­ Narayana Health in India and Whole Foods in the US ­ are all very successful.
 
 Vivek Wadhwa, distinguished fellow at Carnegie Mellon University Engineering at  , said bringing the worst practices of the US outsized pay for corporate executives ­ is not a good thing for India. “Clearly, there need to be checks and balances. If the salaries are tied to long term corporate performance, then large payouts are justified ­ for large accomplishments.But golden parachutes and big bonuses for short term accomplishments are not justified,“ he said.
 
 With reference to the big increase in   COO UB Pravin Rao's salary, Murthy on Sunday had said that in a poor country like India, every senior management person of an Indian corporation has to show self-restraint in his or her compensation and perquisites, and the board has to create a climate of opinion for such a fairness by their actions. This is necessary , he said, to make compassionate capitalism acceptable to a majority of In dians who are poor.
 
 “Without compassionate capitalism, this country cannot create jobs and solve the problem of poverty . Experts tell me that capitalism may come to an end in the not-sodistant future if the current corporate leaders do not heed this advice in India,“ he said.
 
 Seth Godin, American author, entrepreneur and marketer, said it's a myth that there's a talent shortage among CEOs for the largest companies. “This (big salary increases) is ego and greed, and nothing else,“ he said.Asked if one company can afford not to go with the flow, Godin also said it was. “In fact, that's the only way change ever happens,“ he said.
 
 One contrary voice was  , visiting professor of marketing at London Business School & distinguished fellow at Insead Emerging Markets Institute. He said Murthy was being a bit disingenuous.“When he was in management, they were owners so could keep their salary based compensation low as a way to squeeze the rest of the wages down at Infosys. Now the current management has to make its entire compensation through wages and bonus,“ he said.
 
 “I do not know what compassionate capitalism is, but unless it is being used in a self-serving manner, one could argue that beyond wage ratios, it should include the wealth creators following the footsteps of   and Warren Buffet and giving away their entire wealth to charity in their lifetimes,“ Kumar said.Kumar said the bigger issue today is that there is a board of Infosys who should be allowed to run the company .“As shareholders, you can vote out the board if you do not like their decisions. The problem with people like   and Narayana Murthy is that they step down but still want to remote control the company . Well, in that case, do not step down. Instead, continue to shoulder the responsibility and work that comes with being in charge. It is against all good corporate governance norms,“ he said.
 
