GURUGRAM: The   in the government has been caught in the game of passing the buck between Gurugram and Chandigarh.

 While the district education officials have been saying appointments have to be done at the senior level, people in the headquarters say they have already allocated power to make local arrangements.
 
 Many of the primary schools in the city have been left with a skewed teacher ratio after the online transfer of teachers in September this year.
 
 “We have assigned powers to the district education officials to make local arrangements for schools with insufficient teachers in Gurugram,” said PK Das, chief secretary, education, Haryana.
 
 He added that Gurgram is a peculiar case because zone one in the city has unusually large number of teachers compared to other zones. Consequently the number of teachers shifted out of the zone is more than those shifted in the zone.
 
 “Irrespective of the irregularities we have made sure that we meet the   in all the schools in the Gurugram block,” said Das. 
 
 When told about the schools with insufficient teachers, he reiterated that the district officials have granted the power to make arrangements at the local level.
 
 The district officials on the other hand have saying all along that despite their arrangements and efforts, there is a shortage of staff in some schools which can be only addressed with new appointments.
 
 “The decision of the appointment of teachers is made in Chandigarh and we have updated the senior officials multiple times regarding the situation,” said a district education official requesting anonymity.
 
 TOI has reported a few days back that parents in some   are now being forced to take their kids out mid-session due to non-availability of the teachers.
 
 In April this year, 41 schools in the city that were reported operating with single teachers whereas the sanctioned posts in these schools were more than 8 in some cases.
 
 In a reaction to the report, the district authorities were asked to make local level arrangements which improved things for a while before the online transfers in September which affected around 27,000 teachers in the state.
 
