VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Sivajipalem under ward number 16 of the   (GVMC) hope that the authorities including the civic body would address their problems soon.

 Many residents complained that public taps and borewells in the area have not been working for the last few months and that no one was repairing the facilities even though summer is approaching.
 
 LSVK Bhaskara Rao, resident of  , said, “Dog menace is high in the area. Morning walkers to   in particular are attacked by dogs. One of my apartment residents was attacked by a stray dog and the issue was brought to notice of the officials concerned, but no action was taken. The road connecting Peda Waltair to NH-16 via Sivajipalem is full of stray dogs.”
 
 P Mahesh, a resident at Aaru Kolayala Junction (Six Tap Junction), said the corporation set up a public tank with six taps at the junction to provide drinking water facilities to the residents who did not have tap water connections.
 
 “The public tank served the residents well for some time, but has been lying defunct for the last few months. We are all worried about the summer. Civic officials pass by the tank daily, but none of them try to do justice to the problem. I hope GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan will take action immediately,” Mahesh added.
 
 Another resident KS Nivas said, “The hand borewells are not working now. Some staff from GVMC came to the area and inspected them. Since then, there has been no progress in repairing the hand borewells.” 
 
 P Samyuktha said the garbage bin opposite   is not cleared regularly. As a result, at times, garbage spills on to the road. “This dumper bin always emanates stench. The civic authorities should regular clean the bin in the interest of the residents of the locality,” Samyuktha said.
 
 A senior GVMC official said, “We are taking all requisite measures from our side to ensure healthy living at Sivajipalem. However, we will try to improve our services and bring the issues to the notice of our boss.” 
 
 Dog menace is high in the area. Morning walkers to Sivaji Park in particular are attacked by dogs. One of my apartment residents was attacked by a stray dog and the issue was brought to notice of the officials concerned, but no action was taken. The road connecting Peda Waltair to NH-16 via Sivajipalem is full of stray dogs
 
