This year, the Agastya Mala, famed for its rich biodiversity and abundance of medicinal plants, was in the news for something strange – the clause attached to the application rules of the yearly treks up the mountain arranged by the Forest Dept – which says that women and children under the age of 14 need not apply. 

 Since when did women and children under the age of 14 come under the same category, ask the women trekkers in the State, who decided that enough is enough. Although this has been the case for years ever since the trek was organised, this year, women trekkers in the State decided to act. As soon as the bookings began this year, a group of women from organisations including Anweshi, Pennoruma and Sakhi took a march to the Trivandrum Secretariat, demanding that women too be allowed to join the trek. After a series of talks with the Forest Minister K Raju, the latest is that the Dept has allowed women to join the trek, but can accept only ten in number, citing that the bookings are already done. Women trekkers, nearly 40 in number, are up in arms against this move by the Forest, asking why they have to fight for every little thing, while the men got everything on a platter. Above all, if women can scale the Himalayas, why not Agastya Mala, they ask.
 
 Initially, the forest officials claimed that the trek is too unsafe for women trekkers, but funnily enough, they suggested that the women opt for a private trek instead. However, a private trek costs anything between `4,000 and 8,000 while the Govt organised one costs just `500. Guides and other necessary facilities are included.
 
 Women too are paying the same taxes to the Govt, and trekking enthusiasts should not be divided on the basis of gender, they say. Kochi Times explores…
 
 
 
 This denial of entry to women happens year after year. We had noticed it last year itself and had spoken to the Chief Wildlife Warden. The reason he cited was safety issues. The Forest Minister also said the same thing. By safety I think they mean privacy, which can never be a valid reason when women have scaled Mt Everest. But shouldn’t the government ensure the necessary facilities? We don’t know if there is some other agenda behind this. In Sabarimala too, women are not allowed but it’s a pilgrimage centre, but this is run by the Forest Dept! We had spoken to the forest officials a year ago and they should have made the necessary arrangements in the past one year. This is a plain denial of our constitutional rights. This is an area which has found UNESCO mention and we are complaining to the UNESCO also.
 
 
 
 
 
 It is not prohibition per se, it’s because there are no facilities for women on the way. The walking distance up the mountain alone comes to 24 km, and that is just one way. There are no bathroom facilities for women and it’s a steep climb, up and down. We are not denying women entry but only discouraging it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I’m someone who has trekked up the Himalayas and travelled to Dharamsala. So have plenty of my women friends. Officials tell us that the   is too difficult for women! Another of their excuses is that wild animals will attack us. Such ‘animals’ exist only in human habitats, not in the forest. Also, both men and women have same needs in terms of toilets. I have also done trekking in Silent Valley and Wayanad too, some of which have been organised by the Forest Dept. None of them have issues with women joining in. Are there no wild animals and privacy issues in private packages? Also, in a private package, we will have to pay `4,000 and will have none of the comforts of a guide or a canteen.
 
 
 
 
 
 I have trekked up the Agastyarkoodam twice, of which one was organised by a butterfly and bird watching organisation. We traverse through thick woods, grasslands and more before we reach a slanting rock, which has a statue of Agastyamuni. The closed space around the statue is still with no trace of a wind but once you move out of it a strong gust of wind hits you almost throwing you off. But that’s the most thrilling part of it. I had friends to help me, including my own brother, but I can assure you, there is nothing there that a woman with a strong passion for mountaineering can’t do. You have to train your mind and body of course, but that you have to do for any major trek. Mountaineering is my passion, though I’m a cancer survivor. The Agastyamala experience is not one to be missed and no woman should be denied entry.
 
 
 
 
