BENGALURU: Three days after   over the increased influence of the  ,   met   K J George on Wednesday .Claiming the mafia's control was hampering  , they sought the government's help.

 To address the concern, the government offered to deploy a Suchi Mitra (cleanliness volunteer) in each of the 198 wards and even consider incentivising low-grade plastic disposal to avoid plastic waste.
 
 A citizen from Banaswadi, a ward in George's own assembly constituency of Saravagnagar, cited an example of how the garbage mafia operates. The Bengalurean said a 24year-old college student was awarded the garbage clearance contract for the ward just because he happens to be a contractor's son.
 
 Citizens also highlighted BBMP's apathy in clearing files for setting up a dry waste collection (DWC) centre spanning one acre and four guntas. “We (residents) had collected money via corporate funding to set up the centre, but due to the Palike's apathy , we have to return the funds,“ said a citizen volunteer who claimed the land was in BBMP's name and the process to transfer it has been delayed for over six months. The citizen groups pummelled the government and BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad for lack of seriousness in addressing concerns like poor-working conditions of pourakarmikas, increasing number of black spots in the city and the influence of garbage contractors.
 
 However, George and the BBMP cited their model schemes of wasteto-energy plants and converting abandoned quarries into landfills to tide over the garbage crisis.
 
 “We can't paint every contractor with the same brush. There are some good contractors who are ready to submit a list of those indulging in mafia style of functioning. We are trying to bring about changes in the system through direct contact with pourakarmikas and by acquiring compactors and autorickshaws from the contractors to ensure mechanised clearance of garbage,“ the minister pointed out.
 
 George listened to suggestions by citizen groups and said the government will issue orders to incentivise low-grade plastic to prevent people from dumping it in the waste. “We will also launch the Suchi Mitra scheme in full force. However, we expect it to work on a volunteer basis, with a small honorarium to be provided by the state,“ said the minister.
 
 He said BBMP will be asked to slap fines on those found littering and instal CCTVs at black spots.
 
