Thane: In order to keep up with the change in learnining trends, city schools have shifted their focus from   to a more holistic approach. Academicians believe that it is high time schools focus on encouraging teachers to take up workshops in order to keep themselves up-to-date with the happening and increase their knowledge.

 Be it training or workshops in counselling and personal growth and development or even subject-specific  , city academicians assert that   need to be given more opportunities so that they can pass it on to their students. 
 
 “Whether it is academic knowledge or general knowledge or personal skills and their ability to play sports, there is a lot expected from students today. While teachers are supposed to enable students to attain this knowledge and skills, they also need to inspire students to learn by setting an example for their thirst for knowledge themselves. They need to be able to understand the students’ mindset, counsel them, identify slow learners, find innovative means to teach them, etc. This can happen only by attending workshops,   and training sessions,” said Ranjini Krishnaswami, principal of Billabong International school.
 
 “As an international school, such training programmes have been important for us always. Teachers are not only expected to attend and absorb as much knowledge from these workshops, but also use them in their classes,” she added.
 
 While the state board have been chalking out a number of curriculum-oriented training workshops and seminars, education experts feel that there is no check on the quality of such training programmes. 
 
 “In state board schools, teachers are provided with numerous workshops. However, the focus of most of them is limited to changes in curriculum or textbooks. There is no check on the quality of the training or whether it is being applied in the schools. There are hardly any workshops on crucial concepts, including counselling and innovation methods of teaching. The few seminars organised are attended by senior teachers only, not for everyone. Teachers training programmes are highly essential and need to be made available to all academicians responsible for moulding the minds of the next generation,” said city-based senior academician Surendra Dighe.
 
 
