Away from the limelight, far from the recurring echoes of applause and at times, criticism of the judges on national television,  ,finalist of  , returned to his Vidyanagar residence on Wednesday. As he got out of the car and was received by half of his locality, the fatigue of being under the constant public scrutiny was very much evident on the 25-year-old’s face. His obligatory smile gave away a dire need of rest as he exchanged greetings with his neighbours. However, as relatives and friends started pouring in, the weariness began to fade away; after all he was home and happy, even if it was just for a day.

 “I will be flying back to Mumbai tomorrow evening. There is a lot that needs to be done before the finals on April 2,” he informs as he settles down for a chat. Located in one of the many apartments dotting the Vidyanagar locality, Rohit’s house reflects his humble roots.
 
 The pictures of various Hindu deities hung on the walls and decorative shelves loaded with trophies telling tales of his feats since childhood; the overall mood bespeaks of an average Telugu family rooted in tradition and culture. “I have been taking lessons in Carnatic music from   since I was 10 years old. And I have been taught light music by Ramachari sir,” says Rohit in his usual shy manner. 
 
 A FEW MONTHS BEFORE I AUDITIONED FOR   MY MOTHER WAS OPERATED FOR BRAIN TUMOUR
 
 Rohit fought hard to reach the finals, but long before deciding to even audition for the show, he was already at war with a couple of personal issues. “A few months before the auditions my mother was operated for brain tumour. It was a difficult phase for all of us in the family. On the professional front, I too was losing a lot of opportunities pushing me into depression. I almost thought of quitting singing when I heard of the auditions and gave it a try one last time,” he says.
 
 By that time, Rohit, who has sung quite a few songs for Tollywood movies, was looking for better exposure. “I wanted to spread my wings as a professional playback singer in Bollywood,” he says when asked why he chose to participate in Indian Idol. 
 
 I WORKED HARD ON MY HINDI DICTION
 
 After the first round he was asked to come to Mumbai for the second and the rest is history. “In Mumbai, I got to meet the panel of judges and it boosted my confidence. After hearing me sing, the judges double promoted me from among the top 100 to the top 24 while the others had to go through another round of screening,” he says, adding that Badal Ghumad Badh Aaye, a semi-classical number from SAAZ, did the trick and impressed the judges' panel of  , Farah Khan and  .
  
 Singing in Hindi with the correct diction was the next big challenge he had to overcome. Though acquainted with Bollywood OSTs from an early age, Rohit was pretty aware of the difference between a thought and its execution. “I worked on my Hindi diction, fortunately, till now it hasn’t been an issue with me in the show,” he says and looks towards his buddies for approval.
 
 WHEN I MESSED UP ON STAGE, SONU NIGAM CAME TO MY RESCUE
 
 Rohit is habitually more self-conscious than others and at times in a social situations, it impairs his ability to perform his best. “In one of the episodes I got so self-conscious being in front of the camera and audiences that I messed up with the lyrics of a song. I was broken and it took a toll on my confidence. That was when Sonu (Nigam) sir came to my rescue and convinced me that such things happen to the best of singers and that I can still bounce back. I feel blessed to have a mentor like him,” he says with utmost sincerity adding that it’s SP Balasubrahmanyam’s style of singing that he is most fond of. 
 
 More than a judge, Sonu Nigam has been a mentor to me, he adds saying that one of the reasons why he chose to audition for Indian Idol was his wish to meet Sonu in person. “I am crazy about his personality and attitude. He is one of the finest singers we have in the country,” Rohit avers. He also went ga ga over Anu Malik and Farah for lifting his confidence and cheering him up when he is down, but it was Sonu this Hyderabadi boy is in awe of.
 
 THE COMPETITORS
 
 “If I have to choose my favourite among the three finalists, it would undoubtedly be   because I like his heartfelt renditions,” Rohit says, when asked who, other than him, would he like to see as the winner of Season 9. 
 
 One of the characteristic features of such reality shows is that the contestants get to spend a lot of time with each other during the shoots. Rohit says that as the director shouts “pack up” by the end of a day’s shoot and they all are back at the hotel, all contestants get together and competition takes a backseat. “We don’t have any feeling of insecurity among us as we know everybody has his own unique style of singing. Even if there is competition, it is healthy,” he avers.
 Today, all Rohit is breathing, eating and sleeping is the dream of becoming this season’s winner. He is confident but aware that it’s a rocky road ahead of him and his competitors won’t gift him the prize without a fight. “It would be difficult but not impossible,” he concludes.
 
