NAGPUR: As the education department prepares for the final round of admissions for Std XI scheduled next week, it faces an impossible task of filling up 34.7% vacant seats in city colleges.

 A shocking 18,191 seats are guaranteed to remain without any takers as the education department has not received any applications yet for them. The excess seat capacity in Nagpur colleges came to fore when only 35,819 applications were received for 54,010 seats. Total eight admission rounds have been completed with the final one to be held on Tuesday. 
 
 Shivling Patve, district’s education officer said it will be now survival of the fittest. "The online admission system is a completely transparent process and non-performing colleges will be exposed,” said Patve.
 
 Sources in the education department say everything is playing out almost like a script for them. "Colleges have sprung up across the city in huge numbers and now it is evident that we are having excess capacity. Now, those colleges which failed to attract admissions will ultimately have to face closure. Those that are private unaided will find it financially unviable whereas those having government grant will be made to close down,” said the official.
 
 The latter statement may not be very easy to implement but there’s little doubt that closure of government-aided colleges will start bit by bit if they fail to justify their vacant seats. The official said, "Sections in colleges are approved based on intake capacity. Then posts of teachers (to be paid by government) are approved based on the number of students enrolled. So logically, if there are no students then there is no need for teachers. If no teachers then the college will have to shut down sections that are aided by the government.” Colleges are allowed to run aided, unaided and self-financed sections at the same time on the same campus. 
 
 The online admission system has brought out in the open the stark difference between demand and supply situation in junior colleges. The earlier admission system, which was scrapped from this year, was mostly offline with only certain aspects being online. It still involved a lot of human intervention and was vulnerable to manipulation by both education officials and colleges, with allegations cropping up that students were being diverted to institutes that had too many vacant seats. The new online admission process has wiped out all chances of human manipulation thus leading to a completely transparent process that has also eliminated use of excess manpower.
 
