HYDERABAD: Here's some good news for environmentalists and people living in the vicinity of lakes. The state government has decided to divert sewage that gets into various lakes in the city, prevent illegal dumping of waste and encroachments and also beautify the lake bunds.

 To begin with, 20 lakes around the city have been identified for works to be taken up at a cost of Rs 400 crore and to be completed within a year. Since the state government is contemplating setting up the Musi Riverfront Development, cleaning up the lakes will help the project on the lines of the Sabarmati Riverfront as all pollutants from the lakes end up in Musi river.
 
  officials said that of the 169 lakes in Greater Hyderabad, about 30 to 40 lakes are polluted with sewage. For instance, the Durgam Cheruvu beautification works were taken up recently and work on the suspension bridge also started. But untreated sewage is still a major problem in the lake. "Beautification works without diversion of sewage is useless," a senior engineering official of GHMC said.
 
 Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has asked departments such as the GHMC, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB), Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), irrigation and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) to work together to stop the problem. A workshop was also conducted recently by   on finding a solution to the long pending problem.
 
 Untreated sewage, both domestic and industrial, released into lakes through nalas and drains, has become a major cause of concern for the state government for the past couple of decades. Special task force teams were set up to prevent illegal dumping of industrial effluents in drains that finally reach the lakes and other water bodies.
 
 "About 1,400 Million Litres per Day (MLD) sewage is generated in the city, of which only 680 MLD is being treated by the 36 Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) set up in the core city and are being managed by the HMWS&SB. Many more STPs are required in the peripheral areas," Water Board managing director   told TOI.
 
 Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a few years ago, came up with a report 'Excreta Matters', a 71-city study, which stated that 700-800 MLD of sewage gets dumped into the Musi mainly due to lack of proper sewage and absence of STPs. The waste get discharged into storm water drains and water bodies that eventually flow into the Musi.
 
 No major effort has been made to clean the lakes and divert nalas that carry pollutants into lakes except Hussainsagar. The HMDA has taken up the   and Catchment Area Development Project to clean the lake. Several major nalas in Kukatpally, Picket and Balkapur Channel are directly connected to the lake. To begin with, the Kukatpally nala diversion works are being taken up and is expected to be done in the next few months.
 
 The TSPCB is also working with other agencies to prevent pollution, especially industrial pollution into the lakes. "An action plan is being prepared with short term and long term measures on the direction of the government," PCB member secretary P Satyanarayana Reddy told TOI.
 
