CHENNAI: How do you combat violence? Two youngsters, who have been trying to find an answer to this for quite a long time, realised that there was a long road ahead to find answer to the question. But they were hopeful. A couple of weeks ago, they decided to launch an organisation called “Streetlights Foundation”, to combat violence in society.

 Mahendra Babu and Anu, the brains behind  , have a bigger idea. With the help of professionals, they want to create an anti-violence   for students, educating them to be socially conscious. “We believe that sensitising and educating children is the best weapon society has, to counter violence. Our definition of violence covers not just actual use of physical power, but any behaviour that assumes the inferiority of a class of people, be it based on gender, religion, or age. We believe that such behaviour is an outcome of the prejudices and stereotypes that are learned over time from social conditioning,” the duo said.
 
 Violence has become an all pervasive part of our culture, where movies and even cartoons glorify the ‘good guys’ who beat up the ‘bad guys.’ This is where Streetlights hopes to make a difference: educating and sensitising kids when they are still questioning things and forming ideas. “We hope to change and influence the way children understand and perceive violence, through stories that are rewritten to condemn violence and misogyny,” they said.
 
 The team is working on a curriculum for the age group of 3 and 13. Every month, members of Streetlights will go to a particular school and teach the students. The classes will be planned based on the regular school hour,” said Jenifer Ananthakrishnan, programme manager of Steetlights. 
 
 “I am constantly trying to identify and gradually unlearn the many biases that I have picked up over time, primarily from movies and people around. As a mother, I am determined to ensure that my kids learn to identify these biases early on, so that their relationships with people are based on their interactions alone, and nothing else,” said Vinitha Mathew, a mother and a volunteer with Streetlights.
 
 To create awareness, the team has launched a short-film and photography contest titled “Talkies ending Violence.” Contestants can choose between the topics “Justice begins when violence ends” or “Ending violence through educating children.” Short films of 2-3 minutes or original photographs can be submitted to info@streetlightsindia.org on or before May 31. A jury comprising cinematographer Madhu Ambatt, filmmakers Raju Murugan, Vetrimaaran, Balaji Mohan and actor Ashvin Mathew will announce the winning entries at the launch of Streetlights in June. 
 
 
