NEW DELHI: Why has the Army re-thought its protocols when   in Jammu & Kashmir? The changing   — seeking refuge in populated areas and getting a section of the local population to disrupt operations by   — pose a difficult challenge.

 The new form of warfare offers terrorists better chances than being challenged — or surprised — by troops in the jungles of J&K. Earlier, it was easier, though still dangerous, for the Army to corner terrorists by cordoning off areas and neutralising them. 
 
 Now, it becomes difficult for the Army to engage terrorists as they seek cover in villages and towns. To avoid civilian casualties, soldiers fire cautiously. In fact, terrorists who hide in houses and use civilians as human shields ambush soldiers during combing operations, leading to higher casualties. The trend of stone-pelters 
  .
 
  
  , especially after the 
  , a fresh strategy was devised. A high-level review committee, during a meeting on February 15, laid down a four-step procedure to deal with stone-throwers.
 
 The fresh set of rules has been circulated to Army, central paramilitary forces like the CRPF, the J&K government and police. First, a joint control room, located within an armoured vehicle, will be set up at an encounter site. The control room will ensure greater coordination among security groups involved in the operation. Then, deputy commissioners have been asked to impose prohibitory orders to prevent the assembly of people at the site. Police will identify persons acting as collaborators and lastly the police will also list stone-throwers and initiate legal action against them.
 
 “Earlier, stone-pelters used to only hurl stones at forces on policing duties. Since last year, especially after the 
  , these elements try to break the security cordon and attack personnel engaged in a gunbattle. The distraction gives terrorists a chance to attack and flee,” a source said.
 
 “Since last year, over 25 terrorists have fled encounter sites with the help of stone-pelters, who are aided by separatist elements,” the source said. “Unlike some countries, the Indian Army does not use heavy weapons in counter-insurgency operations so as to avoid collateral damage,” the source added.
 
 The J&K police does have a comprehensive list of stone throwers detained in the past and also identifies ring leaders. Their detention reduced the levels of street violence last year though it was felt the action was delayed.
 
