NEW DELHI:   national convenor   today 
  for paper ballots in Delhi municipal corporation polls and alleged that faulty Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) had led to the AAP's downfall in the state assembly elections, 
  .

 Citing exit polls which predicted AAP would sweep the Punjab Legislative Assembly election, Kejriwal questioned the 
  which was completely contrary to these forecasts.
 
 "Many said there is anger against Akalis and the AAP is sweeping polls. Still, AAP got 25 per cent votes and SAD got 31 per cent, how is this possible?" Kejriwal demanded.
 
 Launching a scathing attack against the   and the   coalition, Kejriwal claimed that AAP's vote share in Punjab had been transferred to rival parties through tampered EVMs. 
 
 "20-25 per cent of AAP's vote was transferred to SAD, which is why Congress won the election. Akali's victory would've made it too obvious. They wanted AAP to lose in any which way," the Delhi chief minister alleged at a press conference here.
 
 Kejriwal then attempted to lend legitimacy to his allegations by referring to the  's statement on EVMs.
 
 "Supreme Court has said that EVM is vulnerable to tampering, we aren't saying it. I know you all will make fun of me, hashtag me. But if EVMs can be tampered with, that would mean the end of democracy in India," he said.
 
 Admitting that he accepted the results in Goa, where the AAP had contested polls for the first time, Kejriwal called for a probe into the dubious EVMs.
 
 "We know it is too late to declare Punjab and Goa elections void, but this is for the future, faith has to be restored in the electoral process. The suspicion of tampered EVMs must be investigated to increase voter confidence," the AAP leader said.
 
 After BSP supremo  , the Delhi chief minister had questioned the reliability of EVMs after facing a resounding defeat in the   polls and finishing in third place in the Punjab election.
 
 Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken 
  behind Kejriwal's anti-electronic voting machine drive.
 
 Kejriwal yesterday directed chief secretary MM Kutty to write to the state election commissioner, asking him to hold the upcoming municipal elections through ballot papers. 
 
 
 
 
