GANDHINAGAR:  , the former chief minister of Rajasthan and recently appointed in-charge of  , made it clear on Wednesday that the party will go to the polls without naming a chief ministerial candidate.

 In his first extended state executive committee meeting, Gehlot emphasized that the real priority of Congress in Gujarat is to defeat BJP in 2017 assembly elections, and the name of the its CM candidate was moot at this point of time.
 
 “There are a lot of rumours about who will be the CM once the party wins. This question is totally irrelevant. Our only goal is to win the 2017 elections and defeat the BJP,” Gehlot said, adding, “Thereafter, only the party high command will decide who will be the CM.’’
 
 Gehlot said that  , the leader of opposition, or Bharatsinh Solanki, the state party president, are not the only claimants for the post, but any other person could also become chief minister.
 
 “Only those who can win will get tickets,” said Gehlot, adding, “The country has a lot of expectations from Gujarat and the state elections will bring a major change to the country.”
 
 Gehlot also said that the BJP or RSS had no role in building the country before or after Independence and they have no right to question what the Congress’s contributions to the country.
 
 
 
 
 Shankersinh Vaghela, who has been backing a social media campaign for him to be declared the party’s CM candidate, said he is not in the race. He said that rumours of his leaving the party meeting in Delhi early were baseless. Vaghela said, "Once again, I want to repeat at this forum that I am not in the race to become CM and I will contest the election under the leadership of Bharatsinh Solanki." Vaghela’s speech focused on preparing teams of 15 workers for every booth and on better representation for women. 
 
 BJP defeat in Gujarat needed to save country: Ahmed Patel
 
 alling the BJP a shrewd party, Ahmed Patel, political secretary to   president, Sonia Gandhi, said, "To win the elections, BJP can go to any extent. So it’s time to fight the BJP with full force. To save the country, defeating BJP in Gujarat is of utmost importance."
 
 Booth and micro-management our focus: Solanki
 
 haratsinh Solanki, state Congress president told the party cadre to focus on booth-level forces and to reach out to every home. "In the coming days, Ashok Gehlotji will take up issues of organizational changes," said Solanki. "We will create 15-member strong forces at booths and reach out to every home in the state," he added. "The party will focus on micro-management," Solanki said, adding, "We will have to take active part in the voter roll revision to avoid any deletions. The BJP will never be able to break our record of 149 seats."
 
