CHENNAI: It has been about eight months since the   S Thirunavukarasar was appointed  , having succeeded an aggressive E V K S Elangovan.

 Being a long time Dravidian workhorse, he is fast implementing the political lessons from his past in managing party affairs and also strengthening his position in the Congress party, to which he came in with no large support base.
 
 Taking a leaf out of the Dravidian political books, he smartly utilized his 68th birthday on Thursday to celebrate his 50 years in public life and to bond with not just his partymen, but also alliance partners. DMK working president, M K Stalin, communist leaders R Nallakannu, G Ramakrishnan and Mutharasan, besides VCK’s Thol Thirumavalavan as well as prominent Congress leaders Digvijay Singh and Mukul Wasnik participated in the felicitation function.
 
 Much before this, he got the party’s high command nod for increasing the number of party districts, from 61 to 72, on a par with that of AIADMK and DMK. He ensured that a sizeable number of his supporters became district secretaries in key regions of the state, even while appeasing a few other faction leaders by accommodating their supporters.
 
 In the process, he had replaced about 40 to 42 erstwhile secretaries, most of whom were from the Elangovan camp. Incidentally, around 40 district secretaries, read  , of the TN Congress had written to the party high command last year, requesting it not to nominate Thirunavukarasar to the post.
 
 “My idea was to strengthen the party organization in line with the Dravidian parties and carving out new districts from large districts like Chennai. It is true that 40 – 42 secretaries were appointed new, but most of them are below 50 years of age. While 20% of them are between 30 – 40 years, 70% of them are below 50 years. This move will surely help rejuvenate the party across the state,” Thirunavukarasar told TOI.
 
 Several of the new secretaries have worked for the party in various capacities in the   and other roles. No one can continue in Youth Congress beyond the age of 35. “Can we ask them to retire from politics at the age of 35. We have to naturally accommodate and offer them larger roles in the parent organization,” he says.
 
 Reacting to the dissension by some of those, who have been replaced, he said everyone who had worked sincerely for the party in the past will be accommodated, when the state-level posts are reshuffled. “No action is needed immediately on anyone, as am confident all of them will come on board in due course and I want to take all of them along to strengthen the party in Tamil Nadu,” Thirunavukarasar said.
 
