NEW DELHI: The “Outcome Budget” 2017-18 of Delhi Government has brought to the fore the problems that ail the overcrowded   in Avantika, Rohini. The department of social welfare, which runs these homes, currently has no data to show how many inmates found   recovered to normal BMI over the last six months.

 The document has also set targets to deal with the problems. The four homes of   have space for 350 inmates, but house not less than 950. Overcrowding and the resultant lack of adequate care facilities for inmates have often been in the news.
 
 At the home for mentally challenged male children aged above six years, there are 67 inmates with BMI showing malnourishment. The department had given an explanation in the remarks section saying that this number includes those suffering from TB, HIV, HbSG and cerebral palsy. The total capacity of the home is 145, but it is overcrowded with 240 children. There are no plans to enhance the capacity.
 
 The home for women and children has a capacity for 115, but 218 inmates are lodged there. The capacity is now proposed to be enhanced to 145. Even here 55 inmates are in the malnourished category.
 
 The facility for adult males has a capacity of 110, but there are 222 lodged there. Of these, 71 are malnourished. While the home for destitute and severely mentally challenged has a capacity of 140, 268 inmates (175 adults and 93 children) are lodged there. Here, too, 77 are malnourished. In the outcome section, the department has set a target of bringing down the cases of malnutrition.
 
 Facilities, like a clinical psychologist, are also missing at the homes. The department has admitted that sanctioned posts are yet to be filled. The inmates in need of support are taken to government hospitals for treatment.
 
 The department has also admitted that while the sanctioned posts for house aunties for 350 inmates are filled to capacity, they are for dealing with a workload that involves dealing with 950 residents. Due to this, the numbers of sanctioned posts are “inadequate”.
 
 The department’s plan towards decongestion comes in later sections where it gives details of homes under construction and those that have recently turned functional. 
 
 These projects are located in Narela, Dwarka, Rohini and Hari Nagar and are likely to take the load off Asha Kiran Home Complex.
 
 
