PUNE: The rivers flowing through the city are extremely polluted. This has been revealed in Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s   ( ) for December 2016.

 The WQI takes into account various factors, including PH levels and dissolved oxygen, based on which a category colour is assigned to a particular measurement point (the area from where a sample is taken for testing). 
 
 As per the E-Bulletin of Water Quality National Water Monitoring Programme (NWMP) for December 2016, as many as 175 locations across the state were measured. While more than three-fourth or 134 of these locations were found to be ‘good’ (indicted by yellow colour) or better (green colour), 41 points were categorised under ‘bad’ (orange) or ‘bad to very bad’ (red). Sixteen of these orange and red points are from Pune.
 
 Shailaja Deshpande, the director of river conservation organisation Jeevit Nadi, said there are various factors that have led to this situation of the city’s rivers. The primary among these is construction and development. “A majority of the worse WQI locations are newly-developed or under development. There is inadequate regulation governing the dumping of construction debris into the rivers, as well as direct release of sewage,” she said.
 
 And not just rivers, even catchment areas are not better. “The water quality at Khadakwasla and Panshet has also degraded due to the unrestricted development around here, which is why more chlorine is being introduced into the water to counter the ill-effects,” Deshpande said.
 
 Explaining the effects of high pollution, she said, “It lowers the dissolved oxygen levels, which in turn does not allow for flora or fauna to thrive in the waters, resulting in the death of the river.”
 
 The WQI numbers may not even be the worst yet. “During monsoon and in subsequent months, there is increased water flow in the rivers, which dilutes the pollution level. The data currently available from   is from August to December. The numbers will be worse during the summer months of April and May,” Deshpande claimed.
 
