HYDERABAD: The City of Pearls lost sheen to Andhra Pradesh cities like Vizag, Vijayawada and Tirupati in the Swachh Survekshan rankings for 2017. 

 In fact, this year's survey saw Hyderabad being edged out from 19th spot by Vijayawada to 22nd position. The cyber city was ranked 19 in 2016 among 73 cities and 276 among 476 cities and towns surveyed under   in 2015.
 
 Greater   (GHMC) scored 1,605 marks of the total score of 2,000. GHMC officials said they lost marks in some areas such as making slums open defecation free (ODF), disposal of debris and complete integrated solid waste management areas.
 
 The survey was conducted in February on parameters such as garbage cleaning in public places, garbage lifting, integrated solid waste management, community, public and individual toilets, ODF, disposal of debris and segregation.
 
 Refusing to be bogged down by the slide, an optimistic Telangana municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, who preferred to look at the bright side, tweeted: "Hyderabad stood 1st among big metros such as Mumbai, New Delhi, Bangalore and Chennai. Last year we were 19 among 73 cities. The year prior, we were 274 among 500 cities. Nevertheless, huge scope for improvement in all towns."
 
 Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan and GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy said extensive work and efforts were undertaken to make Hyderabad a cleaner city by taking up several reforms on the sanitation front.
 
 "Special campaigns were also taken up to get good rankings. Efforts were made to improve sanitation based not just on parameters set by   mission, but also other aspects. To put an end to the menace of open garbage disposal, which has become a major problem in the city, last year GHMC removed 1,116 garbage points by deploying volunteers and swachh grahis and taking up rangoli drawing to beautify these areas," said Janardhan Reddy.
 
 The mayor, on the other hand, said the civic body distributed 44 lakh (two bins for each household) to segregate waste and 2,000 auto tippers were pressed into action to replace tricycles for collection of waste from each colony. "This has improved the efficiency," Bonthu Rammohan said.
 
 Top GHMC officials claimed though ministry of urban development only recently issued letters to all urban local bodies on implementing the two-bin system, GHMC implemented this in 2015 itself.
 
 They said under the corporate social responsibility initiative, ITC-WoW and Godrej came forward to conduct awareness campaigns on waste segregation at source.
 
