 has been fetching accolades one after the other over the past year, including tags such as clean city,   and one of the best airports in the country. Cut to the latest, Mangaluru has been adjudged the 48th best city to live in the world, according to US survey. It is the only Indian city inthe top 50 and the second best in Asia after Bursa in Turkey. This news has made both locals and Kudlaites residing abroad jubilant. 
 gets the lowdown on what makes   such a coveted destination to live in...

  
 
 
  “The rating may have come today, but Kudla has always been the perfect haven to lead a good life. Our educational institutions, especially, stand out not just in the country but across the world,” says Vaibhav Bhat, an entrepreneur, adding, “The city has today become one of the most preferred destinations for the student community and this includes both within the city and outside. The quality of education that Mangaluru provides is unbeatable.” Caroline — a student from South Africa, who studies at a city college — says that the reason she came all the way to Mangaluru to pursue higher studies is because she had heard so much about it from a senior who had done a course in medicine at a well-known institution here. “It is such a pleasure to study here because students of so many different nationalities come here for education. It provides such an invirogating environment to study in,” she adds. Ancy — who is here to pursue nursing, and has come away from her hometown of Kozhikode — says a large part of her Malayali community prefers to come to Mangaluru when it comes to education. “And once we come here, we don't feel like going back. The education that is offered here is truly world class,” she says.
 
  
 
 
  This is another key aspect that the city is extremely popular for including in the global arena. The city has some of the best multi-speciality hospitals not to forget extremely committed doctors. “Some of the top doctors in the world come from this city,” says Ashmitha Shetty, a doctor. “What makes our healthcare truly unique is that besides focusing on the recovery of the patient, we are also compassionate and value-driven. Money is not the factor that drives us and a lot of the time, medical care is given entirely on goodwill,” adds her friend Shruti Hegde, an anaesthetist. 
 
  
 
 
  Mangaluru is the headquarters of some of the biggest national banks, and has always made its presence felt in the banking sector. “Our banks are known for their efficiency and professionalism and this came to the fore during the demonetization drive,” says Keith Veigas, an IT employee. “Managluru is probably the only place where we didn’t witness the mad rush that was seen elsewhere in the country. Our banks helped us in this regard immensely,” he says.
 
  
 
 
  Unlike neighbouring cities, Mangaluru has never faced the case of pot-holed ridden roads. “They have always been well maintained and the traffic is much more peaceful, when compared to the metros,” says Aadya Pai, a BPO employee. Commuting both within and outside the city has also been efficient be it through road, rail or air. “Our buses — though there are quite a few jokes about their speed — are also excellent means to commute as they are always on time and are connected to the most remote corners of the district,” points out Melvin Thomas, a student. 
 
  Water, though, in the recent years has become a matter of concern, but is being effectively managed, as is electricity. “If these matters are handled with a little more tact then it’d be a perfect score,” says Melvin. As for parks and open spaces, the city has always been known for its greenery and fresh air. “Thankfully, we still don’t breathe smoke like Bengalureans and have the luxury of walking in large open spaces,” says Zarina, who lives in the UAE, but is currently visiting her hometown.
 
  
 
 
  Mangaluru may be geographically a small city, but the options that it offer to lead a good life are many. The city has a plethora of options when it comes to entertainment. “And the biggest draw is the beaches — we can head there for a walk, for water activities and sporting fun. Also, the tourists love it here,” says Mouna P, a banker. The city currently has three malls with more in the making and all these, are a hub of activity, especially over the weekend. “Be it for international labels, fast food, gaming, movies at the multiplex, these malls are a boon to this city. For students, too it is a good timepass without spending much as we loaf about in its A/C precincts,” says Aiyappa KC, a BA student. Nightlife has clearly upped its ante since the city now has a micro-brewery and multiple high-end pubs. “The eating options have also doubled and we don’t have to go to the nearest café anymore to chill,” says Anjana Manjunath, an MBA student. “Even for families, there are many new restaurants that have come up and it caters to a complete experience for all of us,” adds Manthan Chidanand, a homemaker.
 
  
 
 
  The city is known for holding on to its rich culture and tradition, but it also retains a cosmopolitan outlook. “When we first came here, we wondered how we would fare in a strange city. But we immediately felt at home because people here are so warm and welcoming,” says Vandana Mishra, a banker who moved here from Delhi. Prema Panicker, a homemaker, who is in the city for her daughter’s education adds that the city grows on you and leaves a lasting impression with its simplicity and old-world charm. “If the city has been rated 48th best place to live in the world, it deserves every bit of it. We love it here and Mangaluru has truly earned it,” she sums up.
 
 
