BHOPAL: Tussle between colleges and   ( ) over Choice Base Credit System (CBCS) continued despite a review meeting organised recently. It was believed that the review meeting would solve the issues regarding CBCS but colleges felt several issues were still not clear and they would adversely impact a student’s future.

 Under CBCS, students have a choice to choose from the prescribed courses, which are referred as core, elective or minor or soft skill courses and they can learn at their own pace and the entire assessment is graded-based on a credit system. CBCS allows students an easy mode of mobility to various educational institutions spread across the world along with the facility of transfer.
 
 The association of technical and professional institutes (ATPI) which is represents the private engineering colleges said CBCS still carries lot many problems. “Colleges have been objecting it ever since the system was introduced. In the past several meetings of CBCS has been organised but the core issues are still the same which are yet to be addressed,” said OSD, ATPI,  . 
 
 He claimed RGPV is forcing the system without preparation. “Systems like CBCS are for high-level research oriented institutes. RGPV went on implementing it in the general engineering colleges. It requires inter-disciplinary faculty which is not possible in state level engineering colleges,” he said. 
 
 He claimed that principals of several engineering colleges had objected the implementation of CBCS but nothing was done. “The four-year-degree will stretch to four-and-a-half year and even five years in few cases. In this situation, students would avoid taking admission in  ,” he claimed.
 
 About the mandatory rule of 31% separately in theory and practical, he said, “It is one of the issues. There are several other issues which are not considered.” 
 
 When contacted, a senior official of RGPV without quoting his name said, “We are following the MHRD guidelines which are mandatory. Implementation of CBCS was mandatory to implement in RGPV.” 
 
 About this claim, ATPI authorities said, “If implementation of CBCS is mandatory then it should have been implemented in other government universities running across the state.” 
 
