RAIPUR: Insensitivity and apathy of hospital authorities came to fore yet again when a minor tribal girl, who was gang raped in Pendra of Bilaspur division, had to face a harrowing time and was not provided treatment on time. Also, the family members of the girl were made to run from pillar to post for trivial issues. 

 The nine-year-old, who had lost her mother a few years back, was playing outside her home when two minor boys aged 12 and 14 forcibly took her to an isolated area, raped her and then dropped her back home. The minor girl lives with her grandmother who immediately sensed something was wrong when the girl wasn't able to walk properly. She found that the girl was profusely bleeding and was in a state of shock.
 
 She was rushed to a private hospital at Pendra where she was referred to   hospital in Bilaspur after primary treatment.
 
  However the family alleged that none of the hospitals deemed it necessary to inform police about the incident, even though there is a police station just a stone's throw from CIMS. Moreover, doctors at CIMS further harassed them by asking them to get a referral card froM a government hosptital, saying that only then could treatment be started. 
 
 To top it all, hospital authorities even made the family sign a document saying the girl was being taken back by their own will and that the hospital authority isn't responsible for this decision.
 
 The entire incident came to public notice when the helpless family, along with the survivor was spotted running in haste at   hospital in   to get a reference certificate. 
 
 Police was subsequently informed and the two boys were arrested after an FIR was lodged against them.
 
 Talking to TOI, Gaurella block medical officer Dr   said, "Although I should not comment on the duty obligations of doctors at CIMS, basic medical rules and guidelines say that in case of rape survivors or accident victims, the prime duty of the doctors is to immediately inform police, which CIMS has failed to do. This way, treatment could have started earlier too." Dr Sendram said that the matter came to his notice when the girl was brought to the hospital where she was provided primary treatment.
 
  He immediately informed the police and due to unavailability of any gynecologist at that point of time, referred the survivor to a district hospital. SDOP   was quoted as saying that action would be taken against the hospitals for negligence if found guilty during investigations.
 
