MUMBAI: The saga over   ( ) 2034 seems to be unending as issues concerning Bandra’s iconic   reached chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s table over the weekend. Representatives from the basilica have been upset as an open space outside Mount Mary Church has been marked as a playground in the plan. This is where masses are conducted during feast celebrations.

 The basilica authorities had protested and sent objections to the planning committee for removal of the reservation. But the draft DP 2034, approved by the civic body and sent to the state government, still marked the plot as a playground. Bishop John Rodrigues, rector of Mount Mary Basilica, said the ground is a private property and therefore they were surprised to see it marked as a playground. “We use the ground for masses, and especially during feast days in September, it is used largely with many people flocking. The land has never been covered or enclosed and is used for parking of vehicles and emergency services,” said Rodrigues. 
 
 Basilica representatives approached local MLA Ashish Shelar, who raised the issue with Fadnavis. “After the bishop approached me, I felt it was important to sort out the matter, as tomorrow anyone may want to use the ground as a playground, where mass is being conducted for years,” said Shelar. He said the CM had instructed the urban development department to examine the issue.
 
 Anthony D’Souza, a parish representative, said there was no question of a playground on private land. “We have been using the place for worship for many decades, such a reservation is unacceptable. We went through regular channels, raising objections before the civic planning committee, but when we still saw the reservation existed, we decided to seek the MLA’s help,” said D’Souza, adding that they had few other objections too, which the planning committee has considered.
 
 The Development Plan (2014-34) for Mumbai is a long-term plan for allocation of land for infrastructure and development. It indicates areas for urban renewal, architectural control, area improvement and open spaces. Unveiled in February 2015, it was passed by   on August 1 and then forwarded to the state government for a final nod.
 
 
