NAGPUR: Members of the   Club on Sunday got a first-hand experience of   at a workshop organized by Aerovision at Nagpur University ground, Ravi Nagar, on Sunday. The children were in for a treat as the experts from Aerovision aimed to touch the creative chord of the children with respect to aviation.

 Nilambari Joshi, head, Aerovision, initiated the workshop with some insights in the world of aeromodels, emphasizing on the fact that learning if accompanied with practical approach, it can create wonders. An interactive session was held to discuss the history of airplanes and aeromodels, wherein most of the kids were found to have the basic knowledge of it.
 
 The workshop was divided in two sections, demonstration and construction.
 
 In the first segment, Rajesh Joshi, faculty of Aerovision, explained and demonstrated the five different types of aeromodels: paper plane, walk along glider, balsawood chuck glider, rubber powered aeromodel and catapult glider.
 
 Rajesh asked the kids to take stroll down the memory lane and make paper planes (which does not require any training), on their own, in 2 minutes. The kids brought forth different types of paper planes. To this, Joshi added, “These are not mere paper planes, these are our imaginations, practically and metaphorically. None of the kids were taught how to make or what to make. All we did was provide paper and let the creativity guide the kids.”
 
 Two kids, whose paper planes took the best flight were awarded a book on aeromodelling by Rajesh Joshi. After the paper planes, the students of Aerovision, Sparsh Ranawre, Maheshwar Dhone, Nishant Gedam gave demonstrations of radio control plane, walk along glider and chuck glider respectively.
 
 Rajesh Joshi told the children, “Our main aim is to understand the basic fundamentals of aerodynamics, with fun. Most of the youngsters today aim to become engineers, doctors and some want to join the film industry. We aim at creating awareness about the aviation sector. Boeing holds competition for aeromodelling every year and if chosen as a career, aviation sector shall bear great fruit.”
 
 Tinu Agrawal, a parent, told TOI, “Such workshops broaden the horizon of thinking and practical application of theoretical concepts, and enhances the learning process.”   Club members Shlok Vij and Nipun Nistani, with delighted faces and overlapping voices, told TOI, “We are enjoying the learning because this is not at all like school. The experts are not even strict, and we learnt so much today. I want to be a pilot.”
 
 In the second segment, kids were asked to construct a balsawood chuck glider with the help from experts of Aerovision. With the provided materials, the children set about constructing the model with excitement. The task took almost 20 minutes amidst enthusiasm.
 
 Once done, the children held their self-constructed planes high, ready to fly them. “Sky is the limit, my kids”, said Joshi, signaling the kids to fly their planes. The dreams, ambitions and the plane took its wings and flew high in the sky.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
