By-Jayanthi Madhukar

 In March, an untitled painting of Damayanti by Raja   sold for Rs 11.9 crore at Sotheby's   and Contemporary South Asian Art.
 
 That was more than double the estimate of Rs 4.58 crore, a reiteration of the fact that Indian masters are more than a passing fad on the international scene. Apart from the masters like Ravi Varma, Indian modernists are almost as popular, going by trends in auctions but it is contemporary artists who are still seeking real market appreciation.
 
 Hugo Weihe, CEO of Saffronart, a global auction house, says works by modernists like FN Souza, SH Raza, MF Husain, Akbar Padamsee and Tyeb Mehta are coveted by connoisseurs. He cites the example of Padamsee's The Greek Landscape, a 1960 painting sold in September last year for Rs 19.9 crore, against an estimate of Rs 7-9 crore. In 2015, F N  's Man and Woman Laughing sold for Rs 16.84 crore, surpassing its lower estimate of Rs 15 crore. At Saffronart's Winter Online Auction in 2010, Wish Dream, a painting by Arpita Singh, sold for Rs 9.5 crore.
 
 Neville Tuli, chairman of Osian's, another auction house, says 99% of its sales relate to modern fine arts. “KCS Paniker's Words and Symbols was one of the finest paintings of Indian modernism we sold this month,“ Tuli says.Osian's has sold 7,000 paintings in public auctions over the years. Sonal Singh, director of Christie's India, says “modernists like Gaitonde, Amrita Sher-Gil, Tyeb Mehta, Bhupen Khakhar and others are leading the Indian art market“.These artists are also popular among international audiences due to major institutional exhibitions, groundwork done by galleries, and secondary markets in India and abroad dedicating auctions to Indian arts.
 
 With masters and modernists ruling the roost, contemporary artists find themselves in a bind. Bengaluru-based g allerist Dee pa Subramanian of Galerie De'Arts explains this with an incident. When she approached an auction house with the work of an artist, she was surprised to hear very promptly from them. “The artist was mistaken for a modernist of the same name. This incident is a clear indicator that auction houses prefer the modernists to contemporary artists,“ she says.
 
 At Osian's, contemporary art barely constitutes 5% of auctions. Tuli says it could be because of the artificial prices generated by a few auctions for select contemporary artists. Contemporary art, he says, gains its critical and financial credibility from gallery sales and promotions, which are the responsibility of curators, critics, gallery owners and art fairs. Subramanian, who has attended a few live art auctions in   says gallerists usually promote the works of modernists in spite of the size of the contemporary art market. The fear of entering the secondary market, both by the gallerists and artists, is quite evident from the recent auctions.“What I have experienced at art auctions in India is that people go for what others buy. Also, the bidding and the hype that is created skews the real value of the artworks,“ she says.
 
 The Indian art market has witnessed ups and downs over the past decades.Weihe feels that the market for contemporary art peaked in the mid-2000s and crashed with the recession. Tuli divides the art market into different periods according to the buyers. “The golden period was between 1997 and 2007 when the Indian buyer in India dominated the market rather than NRIs, who held sway during the early and mid-1990s,“ he says. The downswing was witnessed during 2008 to 2017. Since the `market' cannot be created or energized by sales, “it requires a deep seated infrastructure-building vision so as to create deeper and wider awareness across many bases of interest: from the middle classes and the media to the intelligentsia and international communities, especially the museums, archives, libraries and art fairs.“
 
 He rues the state of the Indian art market. India, he says, is less than 1.5% of the global market ­ the same as it was 20 years ago ­ while China controls over 25% in spite of starting from a similar base during the 1990s. One plausible reason is relying on a handful of collectors for a handful of artists. “After nearly 130 years of Indian modernism, where more than a million individuals have dedicated their lives to being artists, we have barely 20 artists controlling over 80% of all global sales. That is not a sustainable market,“ says Tuli.
 
 Christie's which had opened its first office in India over 20 years back, recently decided to stop live auctions here. But they are still holding three dedicated auctions with South Asian Modern and Contemporary Art in New York and London. Saffronart hopes to see the India market grow stronger like the China market.
 
 “Indian contemporary art has reached a new level of maturity and sophistication and finds itself in a prime place in the global art market,“ Subramanian says. “While they may not be evidently present in Indian art auctions, we do see some Indian contemporaries being sold at international markets.“
 
 
 
 
