CHENNAI: The power tussle in the ruling AIADMK intensified with the unified party, led by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, on Friday seeking the intervention of the   of India to pass appropriate orders to restore AIADMK and its two-leaves symbol to the merged group. In a related development, the election commission rescheduled its hearing of the two leaves symbol case on October 6.

 A delegation led by former minister K P Munusamy (representing the   camp) and ministers D Jayakumar (representing the   camp) visited the commission headquarters and submitted the 12-page affidavit signed by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami in their capacity as coordinator and joint coordinator. They said, “The AIADMK is now functioning as one party with the two groups having unified. Therefore, there can be no embargo now on the use of the two-leaves symbol allotted to the party, AIADMK,” they said.
 
 The two leaders drew the attention of the commission to the general council resolutions, expelling   from the party post and creating the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator to steer the party, amending the party bylaws. Jayalalithaa is eternal general secretary and the post was abolished, they said.
 
 The EPS-OPS camp said they enjoyed majority support among the general council members. “Of the 2,128 members of the general council, 1,829 members, who account for more than 85% of the total council, including MLAs and MPs belonging to the party, attended the meeting on September 12,” the affidavit said. In the light of the general council meeting and the amendments that were unanimously approved and adopted, the relief sought by the petitioners (E Madhusudanan and O Panneerselvam) regarding the “illegal appointment of V K Sasikala” does not apply now.
 
 The affidavit stated that the chief minister and deputy chief minister, one of the petitioners in the case, decided to put an end to the divisions in the party, adhering to the wishes of the party cadre and general public. “At the general council, the members expressed their wish and ultimatum issued by the primary members, that the groups in the party shall stand united and supporting affidavits by several primary members expressing their support to one group or other shall be withdrawn. Accordingly, the petitioners and respondents from the two erstwhile groups withdraw all the supporting affidavits filed by the cadre,” it said.
 
 The leaders also cited a resolution unanimously adopted at the general council, approving the continuation in the respective positions of various office bearers nominated by Jayalalithaa and elected through organizational elections, endorsed by her. The camp submitted the register of members of the general council with their signatures, and video recording of the proceedings of the meeting to substantiate their claims. “We have submitted all documents pertaining to the general council, including a resolution negating the appointments made by T T V Dhinakaran. We told the   that it is only the coordinator and joint coordinator who can administer the party,” P H Manoj Pandian, one of the senior leaders of the OPS camp, told TOI. 
 
 “The party split into two after the demise of Amma (former   chief minister J Jayalalitha). Respecting the sentiments of our 1.5 crore cadres, we joined hands to protect the glory of our leader and to provide good governance. We submitted a letter of merger to the commission today,” Munusamy told reporters in Delhi after submitting the representation to the EC. He was accompanied by RS MP V Maitreyan and senior leader P H Manoj Pandian of the OPS camps.
 
