NAGPUR: Road shows marked the last day of campaigning for   (NMC) elections on Sunday. Even though all parties claimed an excellent response to the shows, it being a Sunday, not many people were on the roads.   was the only party to hold public meetings on the last day. The meetings planned by NCP leaders were cancelled at the last moment.

 Union transport minister   began the day with a road show in Nagpur West assembly constituency, which covered almost all the wards in the area. He then held a meeting of activists of Nagpur South and Nagpur West units to fine tune preparations for polling day. The minister then held public meetings at Shahid Square and Golibar Square.
 
 “Our road show and public meetings on Sunday got excellent response. In general, the response to our poll campaign has been excellent and we are confident of winning the election by a comfortable margin,” said Chandan Goswami, spokesperson of the party.
 
  candidates took out road shows in all 38 wards. “Our people spent the remaining time in door-to-door canvassing. All the rallies got excellent response and we are confident of forming the government in NMC,” said Sandesh Singalkar, city Congress spokesperson.
 
 Sunday was a bit of a disappointment for NCP candidates as their top leaders Dhananjay Munde, leader of opposition in municipal council, former ministers Fauzia Khan and Nawab Malik cancelled their public meetings at the last moment. “This will not affect our performance as our motorcycle rallies and door-to-door campaigns evoked tremendous response. We will win around 15 seats and emerge as kingmakers,” said a close aide of city NCP president Anil Deshmukh.
 
 Satish Harde, city president of  , said the party had completed all public meetings by Saturday and hence Sunday was dedicated to road shows and padyatras. “We will win around 15 seats and as no party will get a clear majority, the biggest party will require our help to form the government,” he added.
 
 BSP corporator Gautam Patil claimed that after witnessing the response to campaigning of its 107 candidates, it was confident of winning between 60 and 65 seats. “We had won 12 seats last time and were the runners-up in 27 seats. This shows that we have a strong base in the city,” he added.
 
 Patil said that minimum 400 two-wheelers participated in the road shows in wards where BSP candidates are contesting. “Our low-key campaigning will yield results,” he said.
 
 There were long queues in front of petrol stations as candidates and their supporters got their vehicles filled up. Common citizens, who had gone to fuel stations, had to wait for a long time for their chance. Central Avenue, which is deserted in the morning on Sunday, witnessed some traffic congestion as candidates of many parties took out two-wheeler rallies.
 
 Soon after the campaigning ended, candidates held meeting of party workers to finalize strategy for polling day. Closed door meetings were also held with community leaders to seek their support. Many candidates discussed plans to distribute liquor and money on the night before polling, sources said.
 
