LUDHIANA:   has booked seven accused, many of them juveniles, for the kidnapping of a student near a petrol   after an old enmity. The accused persons had also allegedly made the   before abandoning him after coming to know that the police had started a hunt for them.

 On Monday, the student -- who studies in tenth standard -- was going for tuitions on his bike along with his friend, when near a petrol pump on Kohara Road, a group of seven miscreants kidnapped him in a black colour vehicle. The accused persons had abandoned him near Dussehra Ground in Machiwara, after they got to know that the police was looking for them.
 
 Giving details about the latest status of the case, station house officer (SHO), Machiwara police station, said the accused were booked for kidnapping, and raids were being conducted to arrest them. He added that of the seven accused, five were identified, of whom two were from the victim’s village, and two from the neighbouring village of Bhamma Kalan, while one might be from Sanga village.
 
 The police officer said the age of the accused persons would be known after they are arrested. He added that the accused had kidnapped the student because of some enmity. Police sources said the accused might have committed the crime, as the victim had a relationship with a girl, which was not liked by them. They added that most of the identified accused persons were juvenile.
 
 Police officials said after the victim’s kidnapping, the accused persons had taken him to a secluded area near Gadi Bridge of Sirhind Canal. Later, the accused had beaten him up after tying him to a tree in the forest. Cops said the victim claimed that the accused had removed his clothes and made the video. They added that they had threatened to upload the video on social media if he revealed the incident to anyone.
 
 Police officials said the victim’s friend, who was with him when he was kidnapped, had informed his father, who called them up. They added that within three hours, the victim was traced as the police had installed a checkpost at various places, because of which the accused persons abandoned him.
 
