MUMBAI: On July 18, 2016, the Supreme Court passed an order asking the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) to implement the reforms of the Justice RM Lodha Committee in totality.

 A year later, on Saturday, the BCCI ­ through its seven-member committee put in place to “study“ those reforms ­ has decided to request the Supreme Court to `modify' or `relax' four of those reforms.
 
 In what is now a direct contradiction of what the country's highest judicial bench has mandated, the BCCI has come up with four points that it says needs “more consideration” of the apex court.
 
 The four points listed by the BCCI committee are as follows: One state one vote (needs to be relaxed), cooling off period for BCCI office bearers (needs to be reworked), cooling off for apex council (needs to be balanced) and demarcation functions of professionals and official bearers (needs to be ensured).
 
 The Board will present its plea to the three-judge bench at the SC ­ headed by Justice Dipak Mishra ­ on July 14 when the matter comes up for hearing.
 
 In what is now beginning to appear like an outright farce, BCCI members went on to suggest that they had no problems accepting the 70-year age cap for administrators and the three-member selection panel as recommended by the Lodha Committee. “Earlier, there were reservations aga inst seven points but we wanted to reduce it to three or four. The committee has decided that the four points need more consideration of the Supreme Court,” BCCI acting secretary   said after Saturday's meeting which was attended by five members. Former India captain   and BCCI vice-president from Kerala, TC Mathew, couldn't attend.
 
 “One state one vote, cooling off period for BCCI office bearers and not association, functions as set out between office bearers and professionals review, cooling off for apex council also to be reviewed,” Choudhary added.
 
 The committee is headed by cricket administrator Rajiv Shukla and the meeting was convened by Choudhary.
 
 Of the four points listed out by the BCCI, the one asking for a review of powers and functions between the Board's office-bearers and professionals going forward is clearly something that's been nagging the country's cricket administrators.
 
 Going back to the Supreme Court, a year after it first asked the BCCI to implement the reforms in toto, is just half of the cricket board's headache. Before that, the committee has to first convey its decision ­ of shortlisting the four recommendations ­ to the Board's general body which constituted the committee in the first place. The June 26 Special General Meeting (SGM) of the BCCI gave way to this committee being formed, following which seven individuals were handed the responsibility of studying the reforms. The Board's own regulation would now state that the committee will have to go back to the general body for a ratification of the decisions taken before the list can be presented to the SC.
 
 The SGM requires a specific agenda with a 10-day notice and that cannot be considered at the moment because the SC will hear the matter in six days from now. Choudhary , however, was still confident that a general body meeting could take place. A section of BCCI members were also clueless on how a meeting of the general body was possible without a notice being sent out.
 
 This committee had first met on June 30 and shortlisted seven reforms that it said “needed to be studied comprehensively”.
 
 The fact of the matter, however, is that BCCI has clearly defied the orders of the SC yet again.
 
 
