LAS VEGAS: For any music aficionado, a trip to Las   isn’t complete without experiencing   at the Colosseum in Ceasars Palace.

 Listening to her full-throated rendering of the ‘The Show Must Go On’ never fails to send the audience into raptures.
 
 It is this song that came to my mind again and again as I negotiated the streets of Vegas the day after the tragic shooting near Mandalay Bay.
 
 Other than the   concert venue, where country music singer Jason Aldean’s performance was stopped mid-track by the rat-atat of gunfire the previous night and a clutch of hotels around it, the city was back in its groove. The dance shows were on schedule; the gamblers were back in the casinos.
 
 The silent message that Vegas was sending out was loud and clear: the show must go on.
 
 “What happened last night was horrible. My heart goes out to those who have lost their loved ones in the massacre. But one cannot allow a thing like this to take over your life,” said a concierge at The Venetian.
 
 This spirit was best reflected in the glow-sign boards outside hotels. At the board outside hotel Mirage, a Red Cross notice requiring blood for the victims coexisted with publicity material for the Terry Fator show and advertisements of nightclub Boys II Men. Another glow sign outside a hotel read: Pray for Las Vegas.
 
 The massive police presence on the streets was disconcerting. Though security had been beefed up to reassure folks that it is safe to move around, the sight of gun-toting men in uniform everywhere was intimidating. There were police cars stationed outside every hotel.
 
 Closer to the Strip, the police presence was even thicker. The streets to the concert venue were barricaded — bodies of some of the victims were at the concert venue till the afternoon. Shops and restaurants were open but the usual buzz was missing.
 
 One could walk into a restaurant like Joe’s Seafood at Forum Shops and get a table without advance reservation.
 
 The streets weren’t deserted but lacked the cheer and excitement that one usually associates with Vegas. People went about their business but the revelry and dancing on the sidewalks were missing. Vegas, one realised, was still absorbing the blow that 64-year-old Stephen Paddock had dealt when he sprayed bullets into a concert audience from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel.
 
 While the Strip was completely swamped with cops, the other parts of the city were not left unguarded either. Driving down to Premium Outlet to the north of the city, one saw police presence in all places that were crowded.
 
 As another evening melted into the night, I reflected on the deaths 24 hours ago and the debate it had again resurrected on the second amendment to the US Constitution that allowed every citizen to bear arms and ammunitions. With three out of four Americans believing in possessing a gun, I felt a shudder as realisation dawned that just anyone around could turn crazy and go on a shooting spree. The cops on the streets suddenly appeared less formidable, and I, a bit less vulnerable. And then, I remembered Celine’s song: The show must go on.
 
