BATHINDA: Punjab government has decided to make red ink entries into land records (khasra girdwari) of those farmers who burn crop residue in their fields. 

 Many farmer organisations, on the other hand, have threatened to burn large swathes of land if they are not given some compensation for adopting environment-friendly methods.
 
 If the stand-off between the farmers and the state government is not resolved quickly, the fires will start soon and the 
  of shaking off the tag of being among the most polluted cities in the world.
 
 Punjab science, technology and environment department principal secretary Roshan Sunkaria has sent off letters to all deputy commissioners to ensure 
  . Government officials told  , that once the red ink entries are made, the farmers are identified as willful defaulters of government orders. It can lead to some harsh action, including barring them from taking loans and borrowing agriculture equipment from cooperative societies.
 
 
  
 TOI has a copy of the letter that directs revenue officers to enter in the ‘girdawari’ register red ink ‘Jhona Saada’ (stubble burnt), wherever the burning of paddy straw is observed after which the farmers will be fined. 
 
 Deputy commissioners have been directed that if any local revenue officials are found to be indulging in straw burning or supporting it, he would be issued a notice for disciplinary action by the department.
 
 The department of personnel will issue directions to all employees of government, boards, corporations and autonomous organisations who own agriculture land to comply with the directions banning burning of paddy stubble failing which disciplinary action shall be taken against them.
 
  
  
 
 Farm organisations, however, seem to be calling the government’s bluff. 
 
 “We are not afraid of the red ink entries and are ready for any consequences,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)   general secretary  .
 
 Adds BKU Dakonda vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner, “The state government should either provide farm machinery needed to mix the stubble into the soil free of cost or give us an additional bonus of Rs 200 per quintal on paddy. Only then we will not burn the stubble.” 
 
 The union leaders say that farmers are committing suicide and the state government, which has failed to keep its promise of a complete loan waiver, now wants to impose fines.
 
 Meanwhile, all JEs of power department, canal patwaris, revenue officers,   and NCC volunteers and other officials may be stationed in fields to curb the menace.
 
 Sunkaria told TOI, “No violation will be tolerated and fines will be imposed, cases will be registered for violation of orders.”
 
 Barnala deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said district officials have been asked to ensure that ambient air quality is not affected and for it they need to keep a watch on stubble burning.
 
