AURANGABAD: A murder accused, who had escaped from police custody while being escorted back to the prison on January 24 earlier this year, was nabbed from Thane-based Cinemax Wonder Mall on Thursday. 

 The development came in after the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court directed an inquiry against the investigation officer of the case. The accused - identified as Santosh More   (36) - was produced before the local court on Saturday. He was remanded in police custody till May 11.
 
 Patil along with his nine accomplices is accused of murdering 45-year-old city trader Anil Hawasingh Sharma, whose mutilated body was found in January 2016 with a bullet in his head.
 
 Last month, the single bench court of justice TV Nalawde issued directives to initiate concrete action against the investigation officer within a month's time. The directives were issued during the course of hearing a bail petition filed by constable Ashok   from whose custody Patil had escaped.
 
 The accused constable, violating all norms, along with Patil got into a private car brought by his wife  , brother Deepak, murder co-accused Bapu Jagtap and travelled a distance of about 50 km before reaching Aurangabad and heading straight to Santosh's bungalow in   area.
 
 The accused, on the pretext of spending some time with his wife, went inside the bedroom while making Nikam sit in the guestroom. When Patil did not come out, Nikam knocked the door only to find that he had fled.
 
 The same evening, Nikam tried lodging an FIR with Kranti Chowk police station in the city by cooking up a story that Santosh fled from Baba Petrol Pump after getting out of state transport bus.
 
 Taking cognisance of the investigation officer not demanding police custody for Nikam, who is a key accused in the fleeing case, the high court asked the superintendent of police to initiate action against   police inspector Anirudha Nandedkar.
 
 A senior officer told TOI, "The murder accused was nabbed after a period of four months and on the day, when the police was supposed to submit a compliance report before the high court about actions taken against investigation officer Nandedkar."
 
 The high court had come down heavily on the police and had expressed serious concerns over the police's alleged involvement in the accused fleeing custody. Newly appointed Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police  , on Sunday reached out to Vaijapur for interrogating Patil.
 
 When contacted, she said, "We are investigating as to who all assisted him in fleeing the police custody. Anybody found guilty will face the music." 
 
