NAGPUR: In a brazen mockery of Supreme Court order banning bars within 500 metres of highways, the state excise department has issued liquor permit to  , which is located on  , a national highway. 

 Three restaurants of the hotel have been issued liquor permits but the banquet hall is yet to get one. Officials of both the department and the hotel see nothing wrong in this and claim that they are not violating the judgment.
 
 A few days ago, excise department had issued liquor permit to the fourth floor bar of Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth in a similar fashion. The hotel had shown the entrance of the bar to be on the backside even though everybody uses the front entrance to go to the bar.
 
 Radisson authorities have claimed that their three bars are beyond the 500m limit as they have changed the entrance to lengthen the approach road to them from the highway. Even though the hotel building entrance is located just a few feet from Wardha Road you now have to reach it by a circuitous path. This change of entrance makes you walk a longer distance to reach the ground floor permit room — Ethyl Bar.
 
 Radisson has closed the premises entrance that was to the south. Now you have to move further to enter the hotel premises. They have also built a path divider inside the premises to make you take a U-turn while reaching the new building entrance.
 
 Swati Kakde, deputy divisional commissioner of state excise, told TOI that Ethyl Bar on ground floor was 504 metre from Wardha Road, India Oye restaurant — 515 metre and Ni Hao restaurant — 508 metre. “We rejected the application for the banquet hall as it was within the 500 metre margin. No permit has been given to serve liquor in rooms,” she told TOI.
 
 Kakde further said that as per Section 45 of Bombay Foreign Liquor Rules, 1953, the pedestrian distance and not the aerial distance was considered while issuing a liquor permit. “We issued the permit on July 21,” she added.
 
 Manoj Bali, general manager of the hotel, said that his establishment had not violated the SC order and permits issued to the restaurants were in consonance with the law.
 
 TOI in its July 2 edition had reported that excise department was planning to issue a liquor permit to Radisson. 
 
 However, Bali had claimed at that time that the hotel had applied for the permit as it was expecting a favourable decision from Supreme Court . No such decision was taken.
 
