AURANGABAD: The municipal authorities seem to have forgotten their ambitious plans to   and beautify its surrounding area despite   

 Three years ago, the municipal body had announced that it would rejuvenate the 400-year-old lake and beautify the area and convert it into an attractive tourist spot.
 
  Ironically, the site where lotuses are supposed to bloom full, unsought grass is flourishing. Further reflecting the casual and unprofessional approach of the civic body, heaps of garbage is being dumped around the Talav.
 
 After receiving special funds from the district planning and development committee (DPDC) in June 2014, the   had initiated beautification work of the historic lake. The idea was to desilt the spot, remove encroachments from the area and plant lotus saplings in the lake.
 
 The authorities had planned beautification in two phases. In the first phase, they had planned the removal of encroachments, while construction of periphery wall and beautification of the site was to be done in the second phase. 
 
 Accordingly, the authorities removed encroachments to a large extent and also began the process of desilting. They also built a wall on the northern end of the lake to facilitate water storage. But the lotus garden is yet to come up.
 
 However, the municipal authorises claim that they have fulfilled the task. “We have already cleared a thick layer of silt from the spot because of which the lake has not dried up even in peak summer. Till last year, the lake would dried up in January and kids would play in the lake bed,” said  , officiating city engineer. 
 
 Ali further said that the lotus plantation could not be carried out because of non-availability of guards. 
 
 Malik Amber, the founder of Aurangabad, had built the lake in early 17th century. He created the lake by restricting water flow from the nearby Aamkhas Maidan.
 
  In those days, the lake had reportedly wider area with lots of lotus flowers blooming around the year. During the rainy season, water would overflow from the lake making for a   
 
 The place had a rich flora and fauna and was considered as one of the most attractive places in the city. Till the 80s, the lake had plenty of water, but human interference and encroachment eventually reduced the place to a dry land.
 
