PATIALA: Not content with government assurances,   have called for a   in Bathinda on May 13. This comes in the wake of a large number of restaurants and bars along the highways in Punjab facing imminent closure in the next couple of weeks. A number of hoteliers from across the state will participate in the march wearing black badges and clothes to convey their disillusionment to the state government. 

 Chief minister Captain   had on Monday reiterated the government was looking for measures to protect the interests of Punjab’s hotel industry. However, it hasn’t cut much ice with the hoteliers who inform more than 500 bars and restaurants, especially those on rent, were going to close in the next few weeks.
 
 The state government has denotified various stretches on the state highways to circumvent the   ban on liquor vends and serving of liquor in hotels and restaurants. It had also asked the public works department (PWD) to identify sections of national highways that pass through various cities and towns that could also be denotified in accordance with norms and convert those into other district roads (ODRs).
 
 The president of the Hotel, Restaurants and Resort Association of Punjab (HRRAP)   said hoteliers were not sure if government measures were strong enough to save the industry. He said their bell march was an attempt to send a wake up call to the government as more than 80,000 families had been affected due to the ban and more are likely to follow.
 
 A P S Chattha, chief executive officer (CEO) of the HRRAP, said denotification of a few roads had given some relief to the banquet halls, but proper steps to protect hotels, bars and restaurants were still eluding the hoteliers.
 
 Meanwhile, the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India (FHRAI) and the All India Hotels and Restaurants Association of Northern India (HRANI), the parent bodies of the HRRAP, held a meeting at Amritsar where figures of losses incurred by the Punjab’s hospitality industry were collected. Chattha said as per their estimates, the state government had lost a revenue of Rs 50 crore while the hoteliers incurred losses of over Rs 150 crore in the last one month. 
 
 
