NASHIK: The civic administration has increased awareness campaigns and stock of medicines, along with checking for patients with symptoms of   at its screening centres. 

 The spurt in swine flu cases this month has put the civic health administration on its toes. The   ( ) claims of absence of swine flu just before the recent deaths proved false. 
 
 Last week, newly-elected mayor   had conducted her first meeting with the NMC’s health department in the backdrop of rising number of swine flu cases and cleanliness issues. 
 
 “We have started awareness campaigns in all our urban public healthcare centres and hospitals to prevent swine flu. We are sending our health staff to the field to create awareness among citizens. Wearing mask, drinking lot of water and avoiding crowded areas are some of the important steps to follow,” said NMC’s health officer Vijay Dekate.
 
 The civic administration has advised citizens stay indoors if they have any flu-like symptoms and cover their mouth and nose when they sneeze. They have suggested frequent washing of hands with soap and water to avoid swine flu contraction and use of sanitizer when in public places or while travelling. 
 
 They have also suggested that if a family member is suffering from swine flu, surfaces should be cleaned frequently to prevent it from spreading. 
 
 He said they were also keeping a check on the 12 screening centres of the NMC and patients with suspected cold, cough and temperature are being treated immediately. “We have an isolation ward at   for swine flu patients. We have sufficient stock of medicines for swine flu,” assured the health officer. 
 
 He said that regular spraying of insecticides was being done, but it was not related to controlling the spread of swine flu. “Spraying is done to control dengue. We are creating awareness on our behalf and also are equipped to treat patients. People should also exercise caution,” said the health officer. 
 
 The health department officials said cleanliness was being done on a regular basis and garbage vans were also plying regularly. Most of the garbage vans had fulfilled all the specifications mentioned in the contract, except for 3-4 vans in CIDCO division. “They are in the process of fulfilling the requirements,” said additional municipal commissioner Kishor Borde.
 
