PATNA: More than 4,000 teaching and non-teaching employees of   (MU) have not received salary since October last year. It has been attributed to the delay in the release of  .

 Employees working in the more resource starved colleges are the worst sufferers. Employees posted at the university headquarters and some cash-rich colleges like Gaya College, Gaya and AN College, Patna, have received payments from the available internal resources. Such payments are conditional and deductions will be made once the salary grant is received by the college.
 
 In order to bring parity and transparency in university funds, the government has been insisting on centralised management of university funds, but the move got scuttled on account of the somewhat bullying approach of principals of dominant colleges. Once centralised management of university funds is ensured, suffering of the   employees will be lessened, say sources.
 
 When contacted, MU registrar Nalin Shastri said salary is paid to the university and college employees from the salary grant released by the government. Salary grant for October, 2016 onwards has not been received. “Payment will be made as and when the grant is received,” Shastri said.
 
 The registrar denied reports that the release of grant was being delayed due to non-submission of utilisation certificate of the previous grant. Utilisation certificate as well as electronic receipt has been submitted to the government, the registrar claimed.
 
 Blaming the government for its less than serious attitude towards higher education in the state, PG Teachers’ Association president Sunil Singh said the delayed salary payment has become a regular feature and it reflects poorly on the government’s financial management. “Delayed salary grants, besides causing avoidable rancour among the employees have negative impact on their morale as well as social standing,” said Singh.
 
 “If the government cannot ensure regular salary payment when more than 50% teaching positions in the university lie vacant, one can only imagine the situation when more appoints are made,” he added. 
 
 The BPSC, it may be recalled, has advertised more than 600 posts of assistant professors in MU colleges. The appointment process is moving at a snail's pace.
 
