GHAZIABAD: A day after heavy rain paralysed the NCR, Indirapuram residents had to clean their backyards on their own. 

 Many RWAs in Indirapuram had to employ their own housekeeping staff and security guards to clear the stagnant water accumulated outside the society gates. Some of them had to employ additional manpower and pay them Rs 500 per day to help push rainwater back into the overflowing drains with the help of bamboo sticks and wipers. 
 
 Jigyasu Pun, a resident of Gaur Green City in Vaibhav Khand said, “We have to always be prepared to spend Rs 40,000-50,000 annually during the   months for cleaning the society drains and main sewer lines on the roads. This is technically the  , but the authority does not do it.”
 
 Most of the residents had to supervise the housekeeping staff in clearing the water from the basements, which was partially drained out with suction pumps. Although most societies have a permanent suction pump on their premises, the RWA of Jaipuria Sunrise Greens, a residential society in Ahinsa Khand, had to spend over Rs 20,000 to hire extra pumps. “Our society basements are at three levels and the most amount of water gets accumulated at the -2 and -3 levels. The basement areas are huge with parking space for over 1,000 cars at a time, hence one suction pump is inadequate. We had to hire two more pumps at Rs 12,000 each,” said Ravindra Saini, an RWA member.
 
 Meanwhile, RWA members of Amrapali Village, Nyay Khand, had to work all day along with their housekeeping staff till late night to evict water from the basement, which has been affecting the functionality of lifts in the society. “We have used pumps to clear as much water as we could until 1am on Thursday. The lifts have become dangerous and a child was also trapped in it on Friday morning,” said Rakesh Kumar, an RWA member. 
 
 He added, “The   made tall promises about taking care of our civic needs, but they have left it upto the residents to take care of the even the main road. We had filed a complaint on July 10 with them, but no GDA official has answered our phone so far. They take money from us but do nothing.”
 
 Residents are also worried about mosquito breeding in the pools of stagnant water near housing societies.
 
 On the other hand, the GDA said it is working on the issue. Speaking to TOI, GDA secretary Ravindra Godbole said, “The GDA has already identified places in trans-Hindon areas where waterlogging is a problem, and we’re trying to clear the clogged drains as soon as we can. We have already cleaned the drains near the elevated road in Vaishali.”
 
