UDAIPUR: The   celebrations of   will begin at its   at Abu Road of Sirohi district in Rajasthan on Sunday. The organisation led by 101-year old Dadi Janki, is perhaps the only Indian institution, active in more than 130 countries, having over a million members. 

 Prime Minister   will inaugurate the 80th anniversary celebrations and open the four-day ‘International Conference-cum-Cultural Festival on God's Wisdom for World Transformation’, through video conferencing from Delhi. 
 
 MPs, MLAs, senior judges, industrialists and celebrities will be attending the four-day event to mark the latest milestone for the world’s largest spiritual organisation run by women. 
 
 Senior BJP leader L K Advani, several central ministers, Gujarat governor  , Assam Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandra Babu Naidu would be among the prominent political figures attending the event, said B K Mruthyunjaya, organising secretary of the event.
 
 Another highlight of the event will be the presence of top figures from the media world, including Indu Jain, chairperson, Bennett, Coleman & Co Ltd and Rajat Sharma besides Bollywood actors Raveena Tandon and Gracy Singh. The administrative chief of the Brahma Kumaris, 101-year-old Dadi Janki, and Dadi Hridaya Mohini, the additional chief, will grace the occasion.
 
 The Brahma Kumaris, founded in 1937 by Dada Lekhraj Kripalani, a retired Indian businessman, chose to put women in front from the very beginning, and this has set the Brahma Kumaris apart on the stage of the world's religions and spiritual organisations. 
 
 For over 80 years, their leadership has been characterised by courage, a capacity for forgiveness and a deep commitment to unity. 
 
 Although women hold the top administrative positions in the institution, they take decisions in partnership with the men. It is a partnership and consensus model of leadership, based on respect, equality and humility. 
 
