SURAT: Surat rural police’s action against wanted bootlegger   from Daman on February 15 has irked the wine merchants and the politicians from the BJP in the Union territory.

 A huge rally was organised by the   (DWMA) and all the wine shops across Daman was shut on Friday from 9 am to 6 pm to protest Surat police’s action against Tandel owner of a wine shop. 
 
 Two days ago, the RR cell of   had raided a sports complex in Moti Daman and nabbed Tandel, who is wanted in over eight cases of prohibition and cheating in Navsari, Billimora and Jalalpore. Tandel managed to escape from the spot after he was aided by his supporters including BJP leader from Daman, Vishal Tandel. 
 
 Official sources said that cops in plainclothes had raided the sports complex after receiving information on Tandel. After being caught Tandel started screaming for help and around eight to nine unidentified persons including BJP leader Vishal Tandel rushed to the spot. 
 
 Vishal asked the Surat cops to remove the handcuffs citing the   order. When the handcuffs was removed, Tandel managed to escape from the spot. Tandel is also brother-in-law of Daman’s BJP MP Lalu Patel.
 
 An FIR in this connection was lodged with the Daman police against Tandel, Vishal Tandel and eight other unidentified persons. 
 
 Sources said that Vishal surrendered before the Daman coastal police around 11 pm on Friday and was released on bail by the Daman court. 
 
 Talking to media persons outside the court, Vishal, flanked by BJP MP Lalu Patel, said, “Being a people’s representative in Daman it is my duty to protect my people. I was just trying to help Tandel from the policemen, who had handcuffed him as if he was a notorious criminal.”
 
 DWMA president Mahesh Patel said, “Prohibition is in Gujarat, but it is legal to sell liquor in Daman. Tandel is our member and he owns a wine shop. Tomorrow, all the wine shop owners will become bootleggers in the books of Surat police. If we will not rise up and protest today, we are going to face police atrocities in the coming days.”
 
