KOLKATA: It is a relationship spanning over many decades, over television interviews, articles and editorial pieces. One that former President Pranab Mukherjee held so dear that before he left  , he invited Pankaj Saha to spend time there as the last ‘writer-in-residence’. Saha, the first employee of   who went on to become its director, shared memories of the experience and the indelible mark that it left on him.

 Saha knew the former President since the latter’s younger days in the Congress and shared screen spaces with him often, making it easy for him to ask his ‘Pranab da’, if he could spend a few days at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Though Mukherjee readily agreed, Saha received a formal invitation in mid-June. Besides his television assignments, Saha has written a many books, making him an ideal person for Mukherjee’s ‘writer-in-residence’ programme.
 
 In the end of June, when Mukherjee had a month before finishing his term, a detailed programme was chalked out for Saha to witness the changes that the then President brought into the Rashtrapati Bhavan. “He believes the common people have the right to visit and explore the Rashtrapati Bhavan as it is a national property. One can buy e-tickets to visit the iconic building, which is a self contained city complete with streets, banks, post offices, the splendid Mughal gardens, sports facilities and what not,” Saha said.
 
 It was the exclusive time he spent with Mukherjee that Saha will cherish the most. “He told me how he was getting immersed in books. I had a feeling that his liberation lay in books and reading” Saha said. Mukherjee also revealed how he had written copiously in his diaries each day during his stay at Rashtrapati Bhavan. “These were full of analysis of current situations and deep political thoughts that he had handed to his daughter for digitization. Pranab da said that he would want researchers to read these diaries,” Saha added. He told Mukherjee that he would want to write his biography…a journey from a village in Birbhum to the Rashtrapati Bhavan.
 
 Mukherjee told he will stay put in Delhi and not shift his base to Kolkata. “There’s so much to reading and writing to catch up on…a long way to go…perhaps he is looking forward to the much deserved break now…” Saha concluded.
 
