St. Regis is buzzing with activity. Amongst the crowd of authors, winners, journalists and fans I spot Rohit Tandekar, the man I was to interview tonight. I struggle to get past the multitude of people gathered around him. The lights and camera are set up in the corner, waiting. I hope he hasn't forgotten the appointment.

  "Sir? I'm from 
 . We spoke over the phone regarding the interview."
 
  He stops signing his book and turned around. Other outstretched hands go down as he nods and walks towards me. A man in a black safari suit blocks their way as we walk towards the interview area. I extend my hand for a handshake.
 
  Interviewer: I'm Meghna. First of all, let me congratulate you for your story getting published in The  's Write India book. Are you enjoying the attention?
 
  Rohit: Thank you for the compliment and for having me here. I think I'm having the right amount of attention. Massages his wrist. I'd hate to be in Nainesh's or Kena's place right now. They've been signing copies for hours. And I swear I saw Roshan signing books with both his hands!
 
  I: (giggling) But everyone wants a piece of you guys! And understandably so. You're the chosen 33 winners from amongst 25,000 entries.
 
  R: This feels surreal. Winning such a huge competition, getting our book launched by  ,   and other biggies, signing others' copies, this interview…everything is yet to sink in completely.
 
  I: This competition was truly one of its kind. Mind telling us what it entailed?
 
  R: 11 of India's best-selling authors joined hands with TOI to search for the best storytellers across India. Each of them had a month assigned to them and they gave a title and a prompt at the start of that particular month. We also had to follow specific rules, for example, my mentor,   had specified that the story must take place within a 24-hours timeframe. And then at the start of the next month top 3 places were announced.
 
  I: My sources tell me all of you were invited for a workshop at the TOI CST office yesterday. The camaraderie I see between all of you blossomed from there, I'm guessing?
 
 R: Yes, you're right. We had experts deliver sessions back to back throughout the day. The time spent around that table and in the snacks room will always be cherished. There are some like Bhaswar and   who couldn't make it today though. They don't know what they're missing.
 
  I: The literary scene truly has none of the animosity we see in other media circles. Even   and Amish were cracking away on the stage. Getting back to you, what was your story about? And how was your writing experience?
 
  R: The title for the month of May was "How Blue is My Sapphire?" I spun a fictional tale around a historical event set in Gujarat. I wrote it in a span of 3 days when my final engineering exams were on. The prompt was fun and I let my imagination run wild. My mother was brimming with joy to see her son study so hard for his exams!
 
  I: So, you were working on your story and all the while she thought you were studying?! That was a serious gamble to make, your final exams and the competition. But you passed with great marks too, I heard.
 
  R: Yes, it was risky. But it all paid off. Like I joked on the dais, I passed with a 7 pointer 
  won the competition. And this book, certificate, and my   definitely make up for the few marks I may have lost.
 
  I: Yeah, I noticed all the winners strutting their spoils. I'm green with envy. Even more so when I know Mr.   asked you guys to sign his copy.
 
  R: Yeah it was extremely flattering for him to ask us to. How cool is it when a national bestselling author asks you to sign his book?! I think I almost signed off my name as Ramya.
 
  I: (laughing) Ramya hasn't looked up from her desk since minutes! We tried setting up a meeting with the other authors but all of them are so occupied clicking pictures and signing autographs.
 
  R: Yeah and if we don't wrap this soon, all the people will pour in and disrupt our interview.
 
  I: Before I let you go is there any message you'd like to give to all other aspiring authors who will be reading this. Any tips?
 
  R: Firstly, buy this book. Read it cover to cover to understand the psyche of each author. Season 2 will be coming up soon. Stay alert to get notified about it on Twitter and  . Lastly, be unique. When you have thousands of articles coming in, your story should stand out. Just like my peers' and mine have.
 
  I: It was an honour talking to you and I wish you all the success for your future endeavours.
 
  R: Thank you. The pleasure was all mine.
 
  Whipping his   out, he disappeared into the crowd to join his peers to sign more copies and pose for more photos. But I didn't let him leave before he signed my copy.
 
 P.S. Though the author insists that this interview really transpired, the TOI team begs to differ. 
  and Meghna, both are the deluded author's figment of imagination. The crowd density at the event and the "fans" are debatable too. However other parts of the story are true and the team wishes that the author gets out of his hysteria-induced hallucination soon. 
 
  
  
 
 
