NEW DELHI: NSA Ajit K Doval’s visit to Beijing for   NSA meet on July 27-28 has assumed special significance amid the current border standoff with the two sides hoping to utilise the opportunity to explore ways to end the stalemate ahead or during PM Narendra Modi’s trip to Xiamen for BRICS Summit on September 5 and 6.
 
  However, any formula for ending the impasse in near future seems unlikely amid hardening of Chinese position on the Indo-Bhutan-China trijunction. China’s foreign minister Wang Yi on Tuesday claimed that India has “admitted” that its soldiers crossed into Chinese territory and demanded that Delhi must “conscientiously withdraw” its troops that moved across the border in Sikkim early in June. Such repeated Chinese assertion on troops withdrawal for dialogue with India may not lead to result as Delhi has made it clear that dialogue will happen when both sides withdraw troops. The two sides therefore may want to delink BRICS process including the Summit from bilateral border standoff, hinted an expert on the subject.
  
  India and Bhutan have repeatedly said that the area China is claiming as its own belongs to Bhutan, a stand refuted by Beijing. Delhi went ahead to support Thimphu at the trijunction following a security arrangement between the two neighbours, pointed out an expert on Sino-Indian affairs. NSA who is India’s Special Representative (SR) for boundary talks and his counterpart Yang Jiechi at their bilateral meeting could discuss the issue of trijunction -- point of current stand off and may even deliberate on this segment of Line of Actual Control.
  
  The chinese foreign ministry has hinted of a bilateral meeting between the two SRs on sidelines of BRICS meet. Yang is scheduled to travel to India later this year for next round of SR talks. China by creating standoff at the India-Bhutan-China trijunction is eyeing to directly deal with Thimphu violating understanding reached by the SR mechanism in 2012, according to a person familiar with the issue. It may be recalled that a Sino-Indian border standoff in Sumdorong Chu Valley in Arunachal Pradesh along LAC during the mid-1980s took over a year to resolve. Further it took few more years for both sides to come to a diplomatic solution to the issue.
  
  The SRs have been holding negotiations since 2003 to resolve the long-pending boundary dispute between the two countries. They reached an agreement in 2005 on the political parameters and guiding principles for the settlement of the dispute. They have since been engaged in talks on a framework, which will be followed by the actual demarcation of the border. 
