The state government has scrapped the   development programme due to shortage of funds.

 The Western Ghats   (WGDP), launched in 1974-75 as a component of a plan for the growth of hilly areas in eco-sensitive zones, was sponsored by the Centre (90% central share and 10% state share). 
 
 During 2015-16, it was de-linked from central assistance and no funds have been provided by the Centre since. As a result, the state has decided to close down the programme with immediate effect, a government order issued by the Planning Division on Friday stated. 
 
 The order added that the state will not continue the programme with its own funds. The programme was launched to maintain the ecological balance essential for the life support system and to preserve genetic diversity. Restoration of the ecological damage caused by human interaction was one of its main targets.
 
 The programme was being implemented in  , Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and  . 
 
 About 70.2% of the total area in Maharashtra, which includes 63 talukas in 12 districts, was part of the programme. Every year, Rs 43.84 crore funds were allocated for schemes under WGDP.
 
 The government has handed over 16 water conservation projects under the programme to the state water conservation department for completion. 
 
 Pune-based ecologist and western ghats expert   said, “I don’t know what was done under WGDP. But I am sure that no environment protection was achieved by this. Like WGDP, many programmes are run by the state only because the central government provides funds. Only Karnataka had reviewed achievements under this programme.”
 
 Gadgil added, “The central government has made many changes at the top level with bringing in the   (NITI Aayog). But approach towards western ghats has changed for worse and certainly not for the better.” 
 
 The   government had formed a western ghats ecology expert panel, which was headed by Gadgil. The Gadgil committee’s recommendations were found inconvenient to the Union as well as state governments, as it had put several restrictions on projects that would damage the ecology of the ghats.
 
