Mysuru: The sight of an elephant marching proudly along the thoroughfares of the city, with a 7502kg-golden howdah mounted atop its back is a spectacle that thousands from across the world throng Mysuru. In a bid to ensure preparedness of the howdah elephant Arjuna ahead of the Vijayadashami procession on September 30, the tusker was made to carry 730kg – made up of a 280kg wooden howdah, sand bags weighing 300kg and a 150kg throne – on Monday. The ease with which Arjuna managed to shoulder the weight reassured the authorities of his capacity to carry the howdah again this year.

 Nearly 15 mahouts and kavadis, including Akram Pasha, who has distinguished himself as an expert when it comes to tightly binding the caparison with his knots, took nearly 90 minutes to put the various items on Arjuna’s back on Monday. The kavadis and mahouts performed the onerous task in the presence of the deputy conservator of forests (wildlife, Mysuru) V Yedukondalu and regional forest officer Rajeshwari. Arjuna subsequently managed to stroll around the 5km-long procession route from the Mysuru Palace to the torchlight parade ground in Bannimantap. In the coming days, another sand bag weighing more than 60kg will be added to the composite mixture of items to take the total weight to 800kg and test Arjuna’s readiness.
 
 Besides the 57-year-old Arjuna, the other elephants that will be subjected to such rigorous tests are  , 59, Abhimanyu, 51 and the 61-year-old  . 
 
 Veterinarian Dr Nagaraj, who is responsible for ensuring that the elephants are in good health, told TOI that Arjuna seemed fine after carrying a weight of 730kg for a distance of five kilometres. “If there are signs of trouble, we will give him a hot water massage in the evening around his torso. As a precautionary measure, we will also apply some ointment,” said Nagaraj, adding that kumki elephants Varalakshmi and Cauvery followed Arjuna while he took a stroll along the procession route.
 
 Yedukondalu said, “The staff, including the mahouts and kavadis, took more than an hour to tie the ropes of the howdah and the other items on Arjuna. Balarama, and later Gajendra and Abhimanyu, will be subjected to the same procesdure.”
 
 
