 was not the highest profile coach who applied for the India under-17 coach vacancy nor was he the best qualified. From the 78 who applied for the post, there were more attractive names; a European coach was even shortlisted for the job but when the All India   Federation ( ) made the customary call, he didn’t seem cut out for such an important task.
 
  De Matos, on the other hand, was raring to go. He told the AIFF president Praful Patel that, if selected, he would take charge immediately, without even waiting for his luggage to arrive from Portugal, forget returning home to pack his bags.
  
  The man who comes with a recommendation from Euro 2016 winning coach Fernando Santos and Jose Mourinho, the self-styled Special One of coaching, had also done his homework well, and came extremely prepared to conduct his first training session at the Trinity ground in Benaulim on Monday.
  
  “He was here an hour before training was scheduled to commence at 8.15am. We are all in love with his positivity,” said Abhishek Yadav, COO of the India Under-17 World Cup squad.
  
  Abhishek, a former India captain, was among those who gave de Matos the nod to take over from German coach Nicolai Adam and heal the wounds, following allegations of abuse, both physical and verbal. There isn’t much time before the Fifa Under-17 World Cup kicks off at six venues across India in October but the Portuguese coach provides for hope.
  
  “He is very positive and not scared of the enormous challenge. He believes we can manage a good show at the World Cup. It is important such positive energy is transferred to the boys, who have gone through a lot,” said Abhishek, seated on the sidelines while de Matos put the boys through their paces.
  
  India’s new under-17 coach had two sessions with the team on Monday, and at least during the first session which was open to the media, he had the team engrossed. Understandable, the boys after all were eager to impress and left nothing to chance during the 90-minute session. Whether it’s a small sided game or elementary drills, the 22 outfield players did their best to catch his eye.
  
  De Matos didn’t speak with the assembled media, insisting he needs more time to assess the boys and speak his mind. But from what he told the players, it was clear he wanted change.
  
  “Move boys, move. You achieve nothing by standing still,” he told them, quickly translated in Hindi by team manager Velu Dhayalamani. The boys got the message and sprung into action. Ahead of the Under-17 World Cup in eight months, it’s time to step on the gas and take their game to the next level.
