BHOPAL: Ahead of the budget session of the state assembly, Madhya Pradesh cabinet will meet at Pachmarhi on February 14-15 to chalk out a strategy for 2018 assembly elections.

 Sources in Mantralaya said the cabinet will meet at 6 pm on Tuesday while a ‘tourism cabinet’ will also be held to plan a strategy to boost tourism in the state. The training session of MLAs and BJP members will be held at Hotel Glen View where the leaders will discuss coordination between “satta” (government) and “sangathan” (organisation) with an aim to reduce bitterness among the two. The idea of training session for MLAs and BJP members was finalised during the recent meeting between chief minister   and party leaders at Ratapani national park’s jungle lodge. It was also discussed that lack of coordination and strained relations between MLAs and party functionaries took a toll on the party’s image in different regions.
 
 “The two-day training session is being held in Pachmarhi to discuss relations between the government and the organisation. Issues related to party’s working, achievements of Central and state governments and how the leaders follow and implement integrated humanism of Pandit Deen Dayal will also be discussed at length,” said BJP state vice-president Vijesh Lunawat. Apart from the chief minister, state BJP chief Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, state affairs in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat, party legislators, ministers and BJP office-bearers will attend the meeting, he said.
 
 Earlier, the BJP had organised a similar session in Pachmarhi in September 2016 where the party had discussed welfare schemes to be implemented with an eye on 2018 assembly polls. In the meeting, the MLAs had raised issues within the party that need urgent redressal. It was also cautioned that if the party failed to give due attention to the complaints, it would find itself in a position akin to the Congress in 2013.
 
 At present, the party is facing discontent over issues like reservation, corruption, nepotism in appointments and post-demonetisation scenario. BJP MLAs have also cautioned the party leadership to decide urgently on issues of public concern, which can affect the poll strategy, said sources in the party. In the training session, the party will discuss disputes between MLAs and state office-bearers. Apart from preparations for assembly polls, the leaders will also raise grievances of party workers, which vary from ignoring them in public functions and nepotism in appointments in the state and district units, sources said.
 
  A four-day training session of MLAs was also held last month in Indore. However, this time the party has decided to do away with differences to plan a strategy for ensuring the fourth successive triumph of the party in the state.
 
