NOIDA: Four months after Anurag Garg and Sandesh Verma founded   Pvt Ltd on September 5 last year with the paid-up capital of Rs 1 lakh, the company’s revenue increased to Rs 260 crore in a scheme which had no revenue other than the investors’ money. Cyber security experts said such growth was possible only in Ponzi schemes.

 According to data provided by the ministry of corporate affairs,   was listed as a private company and it was limited by shares. The company was registered at D-57, first floor, Sector 2, Noida.
 
 However, since there was no other mode of revenue generation, Garg and Verma floated another company — Adds Book Marketing Pvt Ltd — and registered it on October 18, 2016. This company too had a paid-up capital of Rs 1 lakh. Garg, Verma and a woman, Nishi Tyagi, were registered as directors of this second company. The investigators said the second company was floated to give a legal backing to the first company.
 
 Dinesh Yadav, SP (city) Noida, said that addsbook.com was running on trial and there was no paid advertiser. “The accused had decided to post some local shopkeepers’ advertisements to defend their Webwork scheme as legal,” he said. Yadav said the police were investigating Tyagi’s role as well. 
 
 “The aim was to urge publishers to rope in five shopkeepers/businessmen to place their advertisements on the website for a monthly rental of Rs 2,000. “If the plan worked, the company could get Rs 15-20 crore from advertisements,” Yadav said.
 
 Webwork parnters’ luck ran out when the banks refused bulk RTGS transactions to the publishers on technical grounds from December 23, 2016, onwards. The company then tried to make up by providing returns to investors through a cryptocurrency — bitcoins — which does not have the backing of the government and RBI. The company had subscribed to Bitcoins worth Rs 13 crore for payment to ‘publishers’.
 
 Some investors’ return had stopped in the meantime and they started complaining to Webwork officials. 
 
 The death knell was sounded on February 2, when the UP-STF busted Anubhav Mittal’s ‘Social Trade’.
 
 The accused claimed that they had spent Rs 136 crore as repayment to ‘publishers’. They bought the company office for Rs 10 crore, and paid service tax of Rs 5 crore and TDS Rs 12 crore. The accused also bought an Audi and Mercedes Benz for Rs 2 crore.
 
 The police have frozen Rs 27 crore from different bank accounts and seized Rs 6 crore bank drafts from the Webwork office.
 
 The police have moved an application to take the two accused on a five-day remand and it will be heard by the district court on Monday.
 
 
