CHANDIGARH: A drinking binge has proved costly for a 60-year-old man — losing Rs 1.08 lakh which he could have saved had it not been for his carelessness owing to his drunken behaviour.

  of Old Indira Colony in Manimajra was going to Mohali on his motorcycle after having drinks when a miscreant waylaid him at Sector 48 on the evening of December 15. Pointing a knife at him, the accused robbed him of his purse containing Rs 30, two ATM cards and their passwords written on a piece of paper. Too drunk then, Rajpal did not report the matter to the police. Four days later on December 19, 2016, he got a shock of his life when he went to his bank and found that all his savings of Rs 1,08,700 had been withdrawn.
 
 Singh then rushed to the Sector 49 police station and reported to cops about the incident. Sector 49 police station referred the case to cyber cell in Sector 17. The police on Monday arrested the accused,  , 19, of Krishna Nursery, Kandela. He had spent the entire money on buying goods.
 
 In his complaint to police, Rajpal said the accused had threatened to kill him if he did not hand over his wallet to him. “I did not realize that my ATM card passwords were in the purse. As I was drunk, I ignored the matter and went home,” Rajpal told cops.
 
 A case under section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the IPC and section 66C (punishment for identity theft) and 66D (punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource) of IT act was registered.
 
 Blew money on laptop, gold chain
 
 The cyber cell on Monday arrested the accused, Praveen Kumar, 19, of Krishna Nursery, Kandela. Investigators managed to acquire a picture of the suspect, which was identified by Rajpal Singh, the victim. They found out the accused had purchased a gold chain and a laptop from the stolen money. The police have recovered the laptop. A local court sent him in police remand for three days. Inspector   of cyber cell said, “We will try to recover the goods purchased from the stolen money. We will also try to identify if he had committed other crimes.”
 
 
