SRINAGAR: Seven Amarnath yatris from Gujarat were killed and 14 others injured when terrorists opened fire on a bus near Batengoo in J&K's Anantnag district, about 50km from Srinagar, on Monday.

 Some reports put the number of victims at six.
 
 A nearby police camp was also attacked, sources said, adding that the toll could be higher. The dead included women. Initial reports said the bus was not registered with the Amarnath shrine board and was travelling after permitted hours without adequate security.
 
 The attack, coming on the first day of “shravan“ associated with Lord Shiva, who is central to the pilgrimage, added to the sense of outrage over the killings.
 
 Police sources said the terrorists initially attacked a police bunker at Batengoo. The fire was returned but there was no report of injuries. 
 
 Thereafter the terrorists fired on a police naka near Khanabal and again faced retaliation. A tourist bus was then targeted and the pilgrims were hit. The bus was on way to Jammu from Baltal and was not part of a convoy, the police spokesman said.
 
 PL Mall, superintedent of police of Sabarkantha, said, “The bus with registration number GJ09Z9976 registered in name of Umiya Sai Travels of Idar was sold to Om Travels in Valsad. The bus which had owner Jawahar Desai's son Harsh on board left for Amarnath pilgrimage on July 2. After offering prayers, the bus was returning back when it was attacked. The injured includes Harsh Desai.“
 
 Central security sources said the area has a presence of Hizbul Mujahideen but the Lashkar-e-Toiba also has boots on the ground. The attack comes as security forces were keyed up in anticipation of efforts by the Pakistan-based jihadi groups to stage an outrage around the first death anniversary of Hizbul leader Burhan Wani whose death sparked off sustained violence in the Kashmir valley.
 
 Sources said there were general inputs regarding a threat to Amarnath yatris. However, there was no specific input indicating the time and place of a possible attack. “The response to the last few incidents in the valley has been strong and effective. The terrorists are under pressure to show their worth and found an easy target in the Amarnath yatris“, said a top intelligence functionary .
 
 As the bus was not registered, it did not have adequate security cover. CRPF chief Rajiv Bhatnagar said, “The bus was not part of the official convoy. It was not registered with the Amarnath board, as required for all non-official vehicles headed for the shrine. The official convoy had passed the spot at 7pm, under protective cover of Jammu and Kashmir Police and CRPF. The security personnel had therefore withdrawn from the area by the time the attack took place around 8.20pm.“ The shrine board advisory clearly asks yatris to register as this helps in their identification as well as security arrangements. Also, they are to start early so that they can reach the base camp before sunset. The advisory warns them against being in the highway after sunset.
 
 
 
 
