MUMBAI: Budget flyers from Mumbai had fewer low-cost foreign flight options compared to air travellers from other Indian cities, but that has changed in the last four months. After the launch of   X Indonesia in May, Mumbai airport will see the launch of another foreign low-cost carrier (LCC) as   schedules to begin flights to Bangkok from Wednesday. 

 Thai   is an associate company of Indonesian LCC Lion Air. Its flight to Bangkok’s Don Mueang airport will bring most South East Asian destinations (and some in China) within the grasp of the tight-fisted traveller. A number of LCCs operate onward flights from this airport.
 
  “Thai Lion Air will directly connect Mumbai to Bangkok’s Don Mueang airport twice a week and then thrice a week from October 29,” said a Thai Lion Air official, requesting anonymity. The route will open up most of South East Asia to Mumbaikars, as Don Mueang airport is hub to seven other LCCs, including Nok Air, New Gen Airways, NokScoot, R Airlines, Siam Air, Thai AirAsia and Thai AirAsia X. What it means is low-cost connections from Mumbai to popular destinations like Phuket, Singapore, Jakarta, Guanghzhou, Chengdu, Krabi, Ko Samui, Surat Thani and a host of other ones like Ko Phangnan, Loei, Trang, Ho Chi Minh,  , Hat Yai etc. 
 
 This would then turn out to be a route where the early-bird stands to gain the most. Not for now though, as even before the
 flights have been officially launched airfares on Thai Lion Air (which also has business class seats) for   vacation travel have gone up. For travel around mid-October, return fares have climbed to Rs 18,000-20,000, with all promotional fares gone. But if you can just pack your bags and leave then you could get promotional fares on certain days for travel this week or the next, which put a return Mumbai-Bangkok fare at Rs 10,871. “This includes the cost of 20kg baggage (food excluded) on the international route,” the airline official added. 
 
 Airfares might be cheap, but the deal with flying a SouthEast Asian or even a European LCC is that one could get trapped in hidden fares. For instance, if one has booked a ticket to the mountainous city of Chiang Mai, in Northern Thailand, then the 20kg free baggage applies only on the Mumbai-Bangkok return leg and not the domestic Bangkok-Chiang Mai leg.
 
 In May this year, the Air Asia family returned to Mumbai after a hiatus of five years with the launch of Mumbai-Kuala Lumpur flights by Air Asia XIndonesia. 
 
