PUNE: For many citizens, it is the season of freebies that candidates across party lines are distributing. So when three candidates in Model Colony-Deccan Gymkhana ward told   to fund their election campaign, people were taken aback.

 Yogesh Suryawanshi, Mangal Nikam and Shrikrishna Kulkarni, independent candidates supported by Lokayat organization and the  , are trying to set a new trend in civic politics. 
 
 These candidates have no political background or godfathers. They are activists working for years in this area and have now locked horns with the bigwigs of the NCP, the Shiv Sena and the BJP.
 
 “All these years, we are active in the social sphere, in agitations and movements. This time, we decided to jump into the election fray only to prove that we are not protesting all the time. We want to get into the system and change it from within. Initially, we decided to contest as a symbolic gesture. But our candidates are now working to win,” Alka Joshi of Lokayat organization said. The ward was selected because Lokayat is active here.
 
 In three days, candidates received Rs 8,000 from people, especially from poor families. “We tell our voters that we are contesting for them and we will be accountable to them, and we spend very little,” she added. Lokayat candidates and workers have prepared the publicity material on their own instead of printing them. 
 
 “Most candidates are busy wooing voters with free gifts, taking them on religious tours or throwing parties. We will focus on issues that concern the people, from sanitation issues to education and transport. We plan to spend a maximum of Rs 2 lakh for all the candidates. The expenditure will be for pamphlets and decorative material for the campaign,” a Lokayat statement said.
 
  has a history of citizens taking to electoral politics. In the 1960s, activists and leaders formed Nagari Sanghatana which was active till 1983 till many elected members joined the Congress. Since then, civic organizations trying their hands in politics have not gained much success. 
 
 In 2012, civic organizations had come under the Pune Nagrik Sanghatana banner but failed to win any seat. Col Jayantrao Chitale (retd) who had galvanized the support of ex-servicemen under the banner of Maharashtra Military Foundation to contest the election has withdrawn saying that his organization did not get enough support or candidates.
 
 But Lokayat activists are not discouraged. “We are here to fight. We are trying to convince people and focusing attention on basic issues which no party is taking up,” Lokayat-backed candidates said.
 
