Muslims across the city are gearing up for the month-long fasting and prayers during the holy month of  , which is scheduled to start on Sunday. 

 Fasting time will be longer this year as the month is arriving in the middle of summer.
 
 Managers of city-based mosques said that the occasion will continue to come in the month of May for the next three years. Next year, the holy month will start on May 15. 
 
 In  , the average fasting period will vary from 14 hour 24 minutes to 15 hours this time. "Days are generally longer during summer, so the average duration of the fast will increase. June 21 is the longest day of the year and it will coincide with the Ramzan month. So, the 'rozadaar' (one who is fasting) must be ready with strong willpower," said Wasim Pirzada of   in Nashik.
 
 For Nashik, the average time of 'sehr' (breakfast) is 4.21am to 4.34am while the average 'iftar' (ending the fast) time is 7.09pm to 7.28pm. "The month of Ramzan starts soon after the sighting of the crescent. Last year, Ramzan was observed from June 7. As the Islamic calendar advances 11 days every year, it is coming on May 28 this year. This is happening after 36 years," said Pirzada . 
 
 The longer fasting hours and the high temperatures have not dampened the spirits of the youths, who are looking forward to observing the fast. "One must understand that fasting helps the internal system, gives rest to the pancreas and improves digestion. I think the initial days will be tough, but then the body will get used to it. My day starts at 3am and ends early. So, it will be easier for me to follow the schedule," said Sabir Ali, who is into milk production.
 
 Wasim Ahmed, a senior citizen, gave some valuable tips. "Having curds and dates just before sehr may keep you away from feeling thirsty for a longer time. Adding a little cardamom to the curds and having it before the start of the day is also advisable," he said. 
 
 Many Muslims believe that fasting in tough situations is more rewarding. "The heat cannot be an excuse as people in West Asia observe roza in hotter weather conditions. We should be proud to complete the fasts," he said. 
 
 Some citizens suggested eating a lot of fruits during sehr and iftaar to keep the body hydrated.
 
 
