ALLAHABAD: Buoyed by the successful attendance of women volunteers and more and more women showing their keen interest to attend shakhas, the  , the women wing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), on Tuesday, decided to set up more shakhas in different parts of the city. 

 After holding it's first successful shakha at Mundera area, the women activists of samiti have set up their weekly shakha at Kalindipuram. They have also chalked out a strategy to set up another shakha at Jhalwa area shortly. 
 
 Sampark pramukh (Mahanagar), Rashtra Sewika Samiti, Momi Dey, told TOI “ The successful attendance of women volunteers and their enthusiasm has finally forced samiti authorities to set up more and more shakhas in different parts of the   so that women volunteers could find it convenient to attend shakha.
 
 She further added, “As majority of women activists and volunteers have evening time to attend shakha, so we have decided to set up evening shakas at selected pockets”.
 
 “Since the enthusiasm among women volunteers is increasing day by day, the samiti has plans to run around 50 shakhas across the district ( Prayag Vibhag). 
 
 During the shakhas, samiti volunteers held interactive sessions with girls and women coming from different parts of the city including City West, City North and City South and discuss issues related to uphold Indian culture and tradition among masses.
 
 The good sign is that more and more women with both rural and urban background are expressing their willingness to join the samiti's activities.
 
 Samiti volunteer, Sarita Dwivedi said, “Volunteers are making efforts to connect with more and more women in both urban and rural areas. The venue of shakha and timing for women volunteers have been selected after discussions with senior volunteers," she said.
 
 The women volunteers are involved in socio-cultural activities and can inculcate a sense of patriotism and social awareness among other women.
 
 Meanwhile,  , Prayag Vibhag Pracharak told TOI, “ Rashtra Sevika Samiti is going to organize a 17 days special camp at Unnao from May 30 to June 15 where over 500 active samiti volunteers from Kashi, Awadh, Kanpur and Gorakhpur have been invited to attend the camp”. Once they attend special camp, they would go back to their respective city or district and train their subordinates. 
 
 An RSS office bearer, meanwhile, said there are around 15,000 women volunteers of the samiti across the state and practice yoga, sing patriotic songs and undergo physical training. 
 
 
