HYDERABAD: Demonetisation has disrupted domestic life of many women in the city and the state as men are refusing to provide cash to run the house. Support and counselling centres have reported an increase in complaints of physical and verbal abuse from women due to the  .

 Nearly a dozen women support centres in the city have received more than 200 complaints from women’s whose husbands have been neglecting them or harassing them. Bhumika, the call centre for women in distress, has received more than 50 such complaints in the last two months. “Several women called asking us what do as their husbands are not caring for children and families. In some cases, the husbands have abandoned the families,” said Satyavati, organiser of the women helpline in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Activists said many of these men have a history of   but the demonetisation has worsened the situation. “A woman from the outskirts of the city in her mid-30s sought help as her husband stopped feeding the family. She has a son and no means to care for him. The couple had differences earlier, but now when we tried to talk to the husband, he abused us saying that he has no money. I have lost count of the number of such cases coming to us,” said Rehmat, a counsellor with the support centre attached with an all-women police station.
 
 Counsellors said this is happening mostly in families in the lower and middle-income groups. Padma, an activist, said women in self-help groups are harassed by their husbands for money as they save money and rotate it in small funds and petty loans. Cases of women being forced to part with their money are coming from neighbouring districts.
 
 “Indian women generally save money for the future, and at least a dozen women told me they had been harassed by men wanting these savings. They are abusive when the women refuse to part with it,” said  .
 
 In some cases, where the both husband and wife were working, the money saved was again the bone of contention. “One woman approached us as her husband forced her to spend her savings when the banks were not giving enough money. She had Rs 100 notes and this became big quarrel,” another activist said.
 
