Panaji: Chief minister Manohar   appears set to return to his home turf of Panaji, from where he was elected for a record five times since 1994, to contest the bypoll. BJP’s core committee is yet to officially make the annoucement but a general consensus has emerged among the top party functionaries that the seat currently represented by Sidharth Kuncalienker is a ‘safe constituency’ for Parrikar.

 The party’s confidence is also attributed to the reluctance of Atanasio Monserrate alias Babush Monserrate to take on Parrikar. A month ago, Monserrate had declared that he was ready to fight another battle for the Panaji seat. He gambled and lost the February 4 polls against Kuncalienker by around 1,000 votes.
 
 While Monserrate was not available for comments, sources close to him said the former Taleigao MLA is not keen to contest bypolls. Currently, Monserrate’s wife Jennifer is a Congress MLA from Taleigao while he is the chief of United Goans Party (UGP). But there is also talk doing the rounds that Monserrate will ask St Cruz MLA Tony Fernandes to quit and contest that seat.
 
 If that happens and Monserrate wins, the number of Congress MLAs would be further reduced. From 17, it stands now at 16.
 
 “We have not finalized any constituency (for the bypoll) as of now. The party will take the decision in a couple of days time,” state BJP president Vinay Tendulkar told TOI.
 
 Sources in the party said based on the feedback gathered from the workers during the consultation process conducted by the chief minister in Panaji last week, the party managers are confident that the former defence minister will have a smooth run in his home turf. The party has left the decision to Parrikar, a source in BJP said.
 
 Kuncalienker, who had proved to be a giant killer on March 11—the day of counting—will have to resign the seat for his mentor as the bypoll will be held by September this year. Kuncalienker has already been reappointed chairman of economic development corporation (EDC).
 
 For some time now, there had been a debate over which constituency Parrikar would contest the bypoll from. As per the current situation, bypoll will be held in two constituencies. Besides the chief minister, health minister Vishwajit Rane also has to fight a bypoll as he resigned from Congress and joined BJP last month. Rane said he will recontest from Valpoi from where he is getting elected since 2007.
 
 As far Parrikar’s bypoll is concerned, initially the party managers wanted the chief minister to contest from Mapusa— where he lived for a while—but urban development minister Francis D’Souza’s close aides and family members were reportedly not keen to accept BJP’s proposal of elevating the Mapusa MLA to that of a governor, outside the state. Despite the anti-BJP sentiments, D’Souza had won by a huge margin from Mapusa.
 
 BJP then shortlisted Curchorem and Panaji. Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral had offered to resign to help Parrikar get elected in the bypoll from his constituency. 
 
 
