NASHIK: The   wants the state government to waive off loans to farmers across Maharashtra. 

 The demands come ahead of the two-day meeting of the   of the association, founded by farmers' leader late  , from March 1 here.
 
 The farmers have incurred losses due to crash in prices of onions and other crops and vegetables. The association said that under such circumstances, they are unable to repay loan and manage their homes. The association will decide its further course of action during the two-day meeting. 
 
 Shetkari Sanghatna's Nashik district president Arjun Borade said, "Crops were good this year because of good monsoon. But prices crashed. The farmers could not recover their production or transporting cost. How will they survive in the absence of proper prices for their produce? How will farmers repay loan and how will they ensure education of their children? The government needs to ensure immediate waivers of loans to farmers." 
 
 He told TOI, "Before coming to power at the centre, the BJP had promised better prices to the farmers. But this did not happen. On the contrary, prices of onions and vegetables crashed and the farmers incurred heavy losses. Wheat, pulses and even onions were imported by the government in past two years. This led to decline in crop prices."
 
 The farmer leader also blamed the BJP government's export policy for the sufferings in the agricultural sector. Borade said, "The government needs to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for onions and other crops. But it did not do this. Prices of various crops and vegetables were badly affected after demonetisation. The market is yet to pick up even after three months since the   drive. The condition of the farmers is pathetic and the government needs to take immediate measures like waiver of loans for the farmers' survival."
 
 In the meantime, the average wholesale onion prices increased marginally after the country's largest wholesale onion market Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) reopened after three-day holiday on Monday. 
 
 The average wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon increased marginally by 4% to Rs 520 on Monday, as against Rs 500 a quintal on the last working day on Friday. The markets were closed due to holidays from Friday to Sunday. 
 
 The minimum and maximum prices were recorded at Rs 350 and Rs 620 per quintal, respectively. Around 27,000 quintals of onions were auctioned on Monday. 
 
  Onion prices in the state recent touched a five-year low. The average price farmers have fetched for a quintal has been Rs450. 
 
 Officials said the dip in price is due to bumper production in the state. Lack of storage and processing   to increase the shelf life of the produce has left farmers at the mercy of traders, who are consistently quoting low prices. Some farmers have set their onions on fire, as they were not even getting the basic input cost.
 
 Lasalgaon was getting 30,000-35,000 quintals of red onions every day in February, as against the average 12,000. The bumper production resulted in traders demanding more railway wagons to transport onions to other parts of the state and country.
 
 "The shelf life of onions is a month; there is so much stock at the market yard, which will take 20 days to clear if we get adequate transport and the stock keeps increasing every day," said a market committee official. They want 40 wagons to transport onions, but they are getting 15-18 wagons.
 
