NEW DELHI: Continuing its tough stand on   MP Ravindra Gaikwad,   on Friday morning cancelled two tickets booked for him to fly from Delhi to Mumbai on April 17 and then from Mumbai to Delhi on April 24. The airline took this position as its cabin crew have described Gaikwad as a “flight risk” and urged the government to think hard before revoking the ban on him from flying. AI pilots also on Friday told the management that they appreciate the stand taken by (chairman Ashwani Lohani) against unruly passengers in the interest of public safety”.

 Air India, IndiGo and   have cancelled tickets booked for Gaikwad several times since March 24. The Shiv   has warned that it will not allow flights out of Mumbai Gaikwad starts flying again and that the party will also skip the dinner hosted by Prime Minister   next Monday. Shiv Sena MP and ministers had gheraoed and heckled aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju in   Thursday on the issue and Raju had to be escorted to the safety of his office by BJP MPs.
 
 On Friday morning — hours after Gaikwad expressed ‘regret’ for the march 23 incident where he beat up a 60-year-old AI employee, the Air India’s Cabin Crew Association (AICCA) said that it will be a ‘shame’ if Shiv Sena MP Ravindra Gaikwad is allowed to resume flying “without a rap on the knuckles” for his act of beating up a 60-year-old staffer and threatening to throw him off a plane at Delhi Airport last month. “We Do NOT wish to be flying such a person….It would also crush the morale of all employees,” the association said in a letter to AI chairman late on Thursday night.
 
 “We as cabin crew must only point out that Ravindra Gaikwad is and will continue to be a risk to flight safety, flight operations and to cabin crew safety on board, and hence Government must think long and hard about letting him back on. In fact, unless he tenders an unconditional apology to AI employees, and undertakes in writing to abide by the Chicago and Tokyo Conventions & Rules of the Air and follow all cabin safety and public behaviour norms , we must not let him on board,” the union says. AI pilots have earlier said they will not fly Gaikwad unless he apologises.
 
 Expressing concern that AI will be “forced to accept him back on flight(s)”, AICCA says: “We find it our bounden duty to point out that the blatantly criminal actions of the MP have not only been in poor taste, but are criminal acts of violence. For either the (aviation) ministry or Parliament to allow such a person to get away without even a rap on the knuckles or even forcing an apology to all Air-Indians and indeed all Indians, would be a crying shame and would reflect very sadly on… workers and civilised humans.”
 
 Gaikwad has expressed regret over the incident in a letter to Raju and has asked to be allowed to fly again. Private airlines – IndiGo, Jet, SpiceJet, GoAir, Vistara and AirAsia – are waiting for AI to decide on the issue and then they will act on a cue. 
 
 The government is not deciding in a hurry as tempers are running high.
 
