KALYAN: Police on Monday rescued an 18-year-old girl whose parents took her away after she married and eloped with a boy from another caste. The couple was reunited after the 25-yearold husband filed a case of kidnapping on Sunday . 

 Within hours, a police team from Titwala brought her back from Nashik and let her parents off with a stern warning. Their story ran eerily similar to the hit Marathi film 'Sairat' that dealt with intercaste relationships, and just like in the film, the girl's family even pretended to accept their marriage. But in a departure from the movie, their ordeal had a happy ending, for now.
 
 Anil Borade (25) secretly married   (18), on August 8 last year. The two, who hail from Vadivare village of Igatpuri taluka, in Nashik district, managed to keep it a secret from their families but on December 6, fled to Khadavali in Titwala. "We knew our families would never accept our marriage due to the caste issue so we secretly got married and fled the village," Anil said.
 
 A day later, Pooja's parents learnt of their daughter's marriage and threatened Anil's family , forcing them to leave the village and later burnt their house down. Interestingly , they al so filed a false case of kidnapping against Anil at Igatpuri police station, saying he had taken their daughter away . However, when police tracked down the couple, Pooja revealed she had married Anil and was an adult, so they were allowed to go.
 
 Last week, her family lan ded up at their Titwala home and pretending to accept the marriage, took Pooja back to Nashik. But when he was not allowed to talk to Pooja for three days, Anil filed a case of kidnapping with the Titwala police, who on Monday rescued Pooja from Nashik and brought her back to Titwala.
 
 "After my wife's parents learned about our marriage and elopement, they along with some villagers asked my family to leave the village and threatened to kill them. As they are from an upper caste and are influential people, my parents, brother, his wife and two kids left the village and are living with different relatives for over a month now," said Anil. "On January 10, my father-in-law   and three members of their family landed up at our home and took Pooja to Igatpuri, saying he will not oppose the marriage. But they did not allow me to talk to my wife for days and I finally approached local police on Sunday, "he added.
 
 Vedant Andhale, senior inspector of Titwala police station said, "We rescued the girl and united her with her husband, but as she did not want action against her family members we let them go with a warning not to harass the couple. "
 
 Pooja, who looked happy after meeting her husband, said, "My parents should understand that caste should never matter. I hope they will not create trouble for us again. "Anil, who too was relieved to get his wife back, said, "I am still worried about my family who face villagers' threats not to return."
 
 However Raosaheb Katore, deputy sarpanch of Vadivare village said, "The villagers have not issued any boycott order for the family and it is a matter concerning the police. "
 
 
 
 
 Prima facie, it appears the girl's relatives have issued threats, indulged in arson and also prompted a social boycott, all of which are punishable (Maharashtra recently introduced a law against social boycott precisely in view of such cases) under the law. Police must take stringent action in the case even if the girl says she wants to forgive her parents, because such a case is not about an individual alone but about pernicious social practices and crimes committed in the name of family honour.
 
