NASHIK: The   shop owners have objected to ban on   on the erstwhile highways that have now been included in   (DP) roads of the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ).

 According to the owners, 90 per cent of the shops are on these roads and the government would lose on to significant amount of tax, besides lakh of people losing their source of income.
 
 Following the government’s directives that liquor shops within 500m of state and national highways be closed down, the excise department on Saturday began closing down the shops.
 
 There are 690 liquor shops in the district, including 143 country liquor shops, 67 wine shops, and 472 beer bars. Liquor sellers met the excise officers on Saturday afternoon appealing that the shops on DP roads that were earlier highways should be pardoned.
 
 President of Association of Bars, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR), Nashik, Sanjay Chavan said, “If the DP roads have been approved by the state government then they are automatically de-notified as highways. Why should they close liquor shops on these roads? These roads that were highways earlier cannot be called highways now. Old Mumbai Agra   (Mumbai Naka to Old Agra Road), Trimbakeshwar Road, Dindori Road, Peth Road are some examples and 90 per cent liquor shops are on these roads.”
 
 He added, “The state public works department has already handed it over to the NMC. We gave a letter to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the district collector on March 17 about these roads. They are mentioned in the 1993 DP and hence special de-notifcation is not required. At the government level many such roads in different states have been de-notified. Maharashtra also should do the same. We will meet the government. Our state and national organisations will also meet them. Lakhs of people will lose employment and the government will lose substantial revenue generated from liquor sale.”
 
 Superintendent of the excise department RG Awale said, “We had meetings with the superintending engineers of state PWD, NMC and NHAI. We asked all these three departments if the roads were notified. If they are in the DP, they should give it to us in writing but they did not. We recently sent a letter to them saying that since they did not reply we were going ahead with our action.”
 
 He added, “No road has been denotified by the NMC hence they are still under state or national highways. We have not closed shops on Old Agra Road from Mumbai Naka, Old CBS, Meher, Malegaon Stand and Nimani Stand to Adgaon. However, shops within 500 m on Mumbai Naka have been closed. On Trimbak Road shops from Pinnacle Mall to ZP are also within the 500 m radius.”
 
