MUMBAI: A special court found Dr T P  , dean of the state-run J J Hospital, guilty of   of court on Friday for allowing undertrial prisoner   to remain in a private hospital for over a month.

 The court held that Lahane had wilfully disobeyed its order when he allowed the former PWD minister to be taken to   on November 3 for a test and did not respond to the jail superintendent’s written communication four days later enquiring about Bhujbal’s condition. Bhujbal ended up spending over a month in a private hospital.
 
 In Lahane’s absence, in open court, special judge P R Bhavake said: “Reference shall be made to the Honourable High Court, Bombay, for taking further action about contempt of court committed by the Dean of Sir J J Group of Hospitals.”
 
 Lahane told TOI he would file his reply before the HC. “This is the court’s order and I have accepted it. I cannot go against it and will follow the procedure in the HC,” he said.
 
 After the court had stepped in to ensure the former PWD minister was moved back to jail, Lahane, in his reply to the court on November 30, had shifted the blame for Bhujbal’s long outing on the Arthur Road jail superintendent. The court held that after Bhujbal was admitted to J J Hospital for tests, the jail super had no control over him.
 
 Bhujbal, 70, has been in jail since his arrest in March 2016 in a Rs 870-crore money laundering case. He was discharged from Bombay Hospital on December 7.
 
 The court said its October 27 order, allowing Bhujbal to undergo only one medical test—a thallium scan—at a private hospital, was clear and not ambiguous. It said the dean was directed to carry out two tests at J J Hospital and one in a private hospital of his choice. After carrying out the test at the private hospital, Bhujbal should have been taken back to J J, from where he should have been eventually discharged. The court found that Lahane had not followed its directions and had wilfully disobeyed the order. 
 
 On Tuesday, the same court had denied Bhujbal’s plea to undergo an angiography at Bombay Hospital and said it was to be carried out at J J Hospital.
 
 The extended private hospital stay came under the court’s scanner after the complainant in the money laundering case, activist   moved court. The scan, Damania said, required only a day and was conducted at the Bombay Hospital on November 3 itself.
 
 
