MUMBAI: In a major blow to the Shiv Sena’s oft-reiterated plans to convert the   into a theme park, the BJP-led state government has issued a directive, in the form of a GR (government resolution), stating that the government’s approval is a must for renewing the   for the massive open space in the middle of the island city as well as for gymkhanas in Mumbai.

 Though a state nod for such civic decisions has always been mandatory, the issuing of a directive amounts to virtually taking control of the matter, sources said. This is significant in view of the Sena-BJP tussle for control of the civic body and the BJP’s promise, while allowing the   to have its mayor, to act like a ‘watchdog.’
 
 The GR relates to Schedule ‘W’ properties. There are 160 properties in the city — most of them in south Mumbai.
 
  -- which the state government owns but which it has authorized the   to lease out and fix conditions for the lease. 
 
 For other properties, the BMC can renew the lease for not more than 30 years, the directive states. 
 
 The 8.5 lakh sq m race course is a Grade II-B heritage site (according to the 1995 Heritage Regulations of Greater Bombay) leased to the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC). In May 2013, the RWITC’s 99-year lease on the land ended, and it is yet to be renewed.
 
 While the state government owns a major portion of the   land, the BMC owns 2.5 lakh sq m. 
 
 The Sena had, in a group leaders’ meeting two years ago, taken a decision on building a theme park. The BMC administration forwarded this proposal to the state along with the RWITC lease renewal request. Deputy municipal commissioner Chandrashekhar Chore said, “The state has declared its policy about lease renewal. The BMC will implement it after following the required process.”
 
 Congress group leader in BMC Ravi Raja said, “BJP is making the horse eat up the theme park. The government is encroaching on BMC properties by taking control of the racecourse and the gymkhanas. There is no transparency in the process.”
 
 Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said following the civic body elections, the battlelines have been drawn. “Earlier, although the state controlled the BMC, there would be mutual understanding. But things have changed following this year’s civic elections, and this is an attempt by BJP to checkmate Sena. This seems to be the beginning of the BJP’s ways of controlling the civic body,” Jondhale said.
 
 Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said the state has pointedly, through this directive, told the Sena that they are the “boss”. “Besides, a major portion of the racecourse land is owned by the state, and if they are not keen on Sena’s plans for a theme park, the plans could just remain a demand,” Zakaria said.
 
