GURUGRAM: The state government on Thursday asked the MCG to create a special cell for monitoring garbage burning and management of construction and demolition (C&D)   in the city.

 “MCG should create a cell for monitoring garbage burning and C&D waste management activities. Big construction sites can be sealed under Section 31A of Air Act, 1981, by the regional officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) if proper arrangements for disposal of C&D waste are not made there,” said additional chief secretary (environment) KK Khandelwal.
 
 Khandelwal gave the directions during a seminar on Air Pollution and Implementation of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), organised in the city by HSPCB and chaired by Bhure Lal from Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA).
 
 “We will require as much as 80 sq km area in NCR for dumping C&D waste. It is therefore important to recycle and reduce the waste. The recycled product should be purchased by the government, otherwise the problem of marketing will arise. Identifying sites for dumping C& D waste is no solution, if it continues to be dumped,” said Lal.
 
 Talking about the proposed C&D waste treatment plant in Basai, MCG commissioner Uma Shankar said, “Four treatment plants should be set up in the city, given the amount of C&D waste produced in Gurgaon. Badhwari waste management plant will be operational in the next 15 days, four months after which door-to-door collection of garbage will start.”
 
 When asked about cases of   burning, HSPCB officials said a total of 1,147 cases came to light this season, the highest being in Karnal (251).
 
 When asked about the importance of GRAP, Anumita Roy Chowdhury from  , told TOI, “GRAP is very important as it will put in place a proper system to deal with the problem in emergency situation, which arises almost every winter.”
 
 “We generally see knee-jerk response by the authorities whenever NGT comes up with guidelines and directions to control air pollution. However, authorities don’t implement a proper action plan. GRAP will help in bringing a systematic way of dealing with air pollution on day-to-day basis,” said Niranjan Raje, a former member of EPCA.
 
 
