PANAJI: Goa’s urgent need for an efficient transport system could become a reality with the   mission taking up the task to prepare and implement the comprehensive mobility plan for the state. 

 With the Union urban development ministry’s approval, Imagine   will study Goa’s virtually non-existent transport system and prepare a comprehensive mobility plan.
 
 According to documents assessed by STOI, Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited, the special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed under the smart city mission, will appoint a consultant to draw up an urban mobility plan that includes inland waterway transport, freight movement, last mile connectivity to railway stations and hybrid buses.
 
 As part of the proposal, the consultant will have to study and review both, present and projected mobility needs through a traffic forecasting model and through a review of land use pattern and population density.
 
 “The objective is to develop a perspective low-carbon mobility plan for sustainable regional transport over a 20-year planning horizon for the North Goa district and   district,” an official said.
 
 A request for proposal was issued to 23 reputed urban design consulting agencies on July 24, with the Union urban development ministry giving its approval to bear 80% of the costs for the consultancy.
 
 “The balance 20% will have to be borne by the state. The comprehensive mobility proposal will be based on the national urban transport policy,” a senior government official said.
 
 According to the official, the comprehensive mobility plan will provide direction for development of transport infrastructure in the state. Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited is keen on including measures such as public transportation system improvement plan at the regional and local level. The proposal also focuses on inland water and sea transport for passengers and freight movement.
 
 “This is a study and strategy document which will define where we are going and how the comprehensive transportation proposal will be implemented in Goa. The regional plan will also be considered while the report is being prepared,” mentor for the Panaji smart city mission, Sidharth Kuncalienker said.
 
 The selection of the consultant to prepare the comprehensive mobility plan will be done through quality and cost based selection bidding.
 
 Presenting the budget for the current fiscal year in March, chief minister Manohar Parrikar had said that his government would formulate and implement a comprehensive mobility plan for extensive connectivity across the state.
 
 Some of the other aspects that the comprehensive mobility plan will address are traffic management, parking facilities and accessibility improvement of major tourist places.
 
