GURUGRAM: New revelations have exposed that the nexus between cops and the fake arms scam kingpin had been in place for several years. In 2014,   had uncovered a case in which NOCs were taken for 86 arms licences from Nagaland, reregistered in Haryana and sold to individuals and gun houses across Haryana. 

 This case has now been linked to the fake arms license scam, as some of the lapsed licences from Nagaland had been bought by the kingpin, Manish Bhardwaj alias Kala. The SIT has now launched a search for weapons enrolled on these cancelled licences, but sold to Bhardwaj.
 
 Bhardwaj also supplied illegal weapons manufactured in UP throughout Haryana and NCR. Police have identified two gun houses in two Haryana cities where Bhardwaj had supplied the weapons — in Karnal and in Jagadhari of Yamunanagar district. Unconfirmed sources said an US-made rifle and two pistols were recovered from these gun houses.
 
 Of the accused cops, sources said former arm licence branch in-charge, inspector Jasmer Singh, is still missing, while constable Mahesh, who was on training in Madhuban according to police records, was also found absent from the police training centre. 
 
 The SIT has, meanwhile, conducted raids on several suspected gun houses in Haryana and Delhi. A team is camping in Khurja in UP to nab Kurban and Rehman, who allegedly made the duplicate weapons for Bhardwaj.
 
 In June 2014, Rohtak range police had uncovered a fake arms licences racket, in which Rohtak residents had furnished bogus addresses and licences registered in Nagaland to retain weapons. Pointing at connivance between officials in the hill state and touts, investigators say these licences were procured by paying money ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh to the middlemen. 
 
 “That case was under investigation separately, but now Bhardwaj is being linked with it,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime) and former SIT head of the Rohtak arms licence scam. 
 
 “Bhardwaj was one of the buyers of weapons enrolled under these fake licences. We’re probing the fact that those weapons were never deposited in police stations but sold separately,” joint commissioner of police Sibas Kabiraj told TOI.
 
 Gurugram police unearthed the fake weapons and licence scam last month. They registered an FIR against Bhardwaj and his accomplice Mohan Lal for allegedly getting licences renewed for 15 firearms in the city against fake older licences. 
 
 A probe by JCP Kabiraj revealed that the fake licences were issued in connivance with touts and staff in the office of a former joint commissioner of police and other departments. Four cops have been suspended. Six accused have been arrested in the scam till today, including one cop.
 
 
