THANE: Residents of Thane’s   Complex will finally get enough   supply, as after almost three years, the builder has finally agreed to provide them with a separate water connection. The residents of the complex staged a day-long protest on Sunday, January 8 against the massive water supply shortage they have been facing for the last three years. 

 Over 231 families residing in the D, E and F wings of Dosti Vihar’s Vrishti society had been receiving the civic water supply for a maximum of two hours a day. On the days when the city reeled under water crisis, these residents were forced to survive on purchased bottled water and at times even tanker water. Fed up with this constant struggle to get this basic utility, these residents of the 231 flats stepped out of their homes and agitated outside the customer care and sales office of the Dosti Corporation. They even shut down the clubhouse, till their demand for a separate water pipeline connection was met.
 
 Girish Mhatre, the chairman of the society, said, “Ever since I moved into this society three years ago, we have had a water crisis. I approached the TMC, who informed us that they were providing sufficient water that would suffice for the entire complex. However our buildings faced water crisis as there was an issue with the internal water distribution in the society. We then realized that we were not getting our water supply because the society functioned on a looped-pipeline system and the D, E and F wings of Vrishti Society were last to get water.” “After that we kept asking the builder to provide us with a separate pipeline, but in vain and finally we decided to protest,” he added. In a meeting at the end of the day, the Dosti Corporation agreed to provide a separate water pipeline, the work for which will start on Monday.
 
 “We have always tried to   that our   receive all the facilities they require. We also ensured that the entire complex receives sufficient water supply. However, there has been an issue with the distribution of this water among the societies, resulting in the last few buildings getting not as much as the others. Which is why we are starting a direct pipeline from the TMC connection to those affected in the Vrishti society. Work for this will commence soon,” said Rajesh Shah, the executive director at Dosti Corporation.
 
 
