On Sunday, the LGBTQIA+ community and its supporters saw a lot of reactions to   Johar’s statement about his sexuality in a forthcoming biography. The filmmaker said, “Everybody knows what my sexual orientation is. I don’t need to scream it out. If I need to spell it out, I won’t only because I live in a country where I could possibly be jailed for saying this. Which is why I,  , will not say the three words that possibly everybody knows about me in any case.” 
Lawyer  , though, says, “Uttering the sentence ‘I am gay’ by itself has no legal implications whatsoever, technically. If one takes a look closely, then it is just the sexual act of two persons from the same gender that is a punishable offense. Karan Johar’s statement is both poignant and powerful. It shows a greater focus on the stigma and illegality attached to the topic in India. By coming out in the open and saying something like this, he has thrown light on a big issue in India.”
 Agreeing with   and adding that this has opened the Pandora’s Box, queer rights activist   says, “We’ve always known about Karan’s sexuality, and always hoped that he’d be Bollywood’s first celebrity to come out.” Romal adds, “It would make a world of a difference if he openly stated that he was gay. That said, we also understand the amount of pressure we’re placing on one individual, and so most of us just hoped. With a statement like this, nothing much is left to one’s imagination and that’s a good thing. We only wish he’d interacted with the community enough to understand that he cannot be jailed just for being gay. The dreaded IPC Section 377 only comes into play if one man is caught in a sexual act with another man, it doesn’t give the police the power to criminalize one’s identity.”
 Queer rights activist   believes that coming out and admitting one’s sexuality openly is a big deal. “If Karan Johar had openly said it out at least once, it would have made a lot of difference. I know that admitting one’s sexuality is not a personal thing, but instead is about helping the community at large and inspiring people. I am out and I know that I won’t ever be imprisoned. I personally look at my status to help inspire people. I remember this incident from last year’s Namma Pride Parade, where my parents had accompanied me. I remember how a bunch of   participants at the event called me that night and cried to me saying that they wished their parents would have been just as supportive.”
 
 
