PUNE:   took one long look at where the ball had pitched - disbelieving his own act more than what the ball had done - before walking back to the pavilion. The Indian captain had shouldered arms to a ball that held its line from Australia's left-arm spinner Steve O'Keefe and had his off-stump pegged back.

 With that dismissal, India's slim hopes of saving the first Test went up in smoke. Set an improbable target of 441 by the touring Australians, India caved in like a house of cards and were bowled out for 107 in just 33.5 overs, leaving the visitors victors by a whopping 333 runs with well over two days to spare.
 
 The hunted turned hunters at the MCA stadium on Saturday as Australia took a deserving 1-0 lead in the four-Test series. It also ended India's 19-match unbeaten streak.
 
 It was only the fifth time that India lost a Test at home inside three days. The last time they had suffered such an ignominy was also against the Aussies when  's side had mauled them in the first Test in Mumbai in 2000-01.
 
 Kohli's dismissal summed up India's misfortune in the match. On a made-to-order turner Team India simply didn't have the wherewithal to milk the advantage.
 
  
  
 O'Keefe, who ran through India's first innings, taking six wickets for 35 runs, returned to hit another 'sixer' to complete the rout. Not insignificantly, four of his scalps came from leg-before wicket decisions.
 
 Ironically, on a track that offered plenty of purchase to slower bowlers, Indian spinners -to use an old cricketing parlance -were guilty of turning the ball too much. The 32-year-old O'Keefe, on the other hand, simply maintained tidy line and length and reaped rich dividends.
 
 The Malaysia-born Aussie, who now has the best match figures for a left-arm spinner against India in India, was named the Man of the Match.
 
 He was brilliantly supported by off-spinner Nathan Lyon, who grabbed 4/53 to go with his one for 21 in the first innings.
 
 India launched their second innings a little after lunch and folded up soon after the tea break, lasting a shade over two hours. "Coming to India, we hadn't won a game here in 4,502 days. I had been told those facts. So it has been an incredibly long time," said a gleeful  , referring to Australia's last Test win on India soil that came in Nagpur in 2004-05.
 
 Smith's joy was at winning the Test was doubled after the Australian captain notched up his 18th Test hundred on Saturday. It was Smith's first on Indian soil and his innings helped his team stretch their second innings from overnight 143 for four to 285. The 27-year-old also reached the individual milestone of 1000 runs against India on the way.
 
 Smith, of course, rode his luck. He was dropped for the fourth time on Saturday, this time by   at leg slip as he failed to react to an edge from a miscued sweep shot.
 
 The skipper got valuable support from   (31),   (20) and Mitchell Starc (30) as the Aussies put the match well beyond India's reach.
 
 Faced with a monumental target, Indian batsmen simply buckled under pressure.
 
