ALLAHABAD: With a 90-year-history to boast of, the   of   has nothing much remember it by. Overgrown shrubs in the backyard, open drains, tree roots growing out of damaged walls, filthy washbasins, haphazard electric wiring and the list could go on. Amidst the apathy of the   in the past, a recent court order calling for hostels to be vacated by May 25 for maintenance work is like the final nail in the coffin for students living in GN Jha hostel and AN Jha hostel. 

 As per a recent order by  , AU has been directed to vacate hostels by May 25 for maintenance work. The university had claimed that though the institution urgently needed repair work, but it could not be taken up warlier as rooms are occupied throughout the year. AU has to complete the repair and maintenance work by June 10, which is the deadline set by High Court. 
 
 The high court order mandated that the AU needed to get the hostels vacated by May 25, failing which it shall be the responsibility of the District Magistrate and the Senior Superintendent of Police to ensure that the rooms are made available. 
 
 When TOI visited the GN Jha hostel on Sunday, the condition of the rooms was decent enough as minor repair work had been recently carried out. However, the backyard of the hostel and that of the mess, which is run by inmates by their own funds, was pathetic. One could notice piles of chapatis thrown away in one corner of the mess, while wash basins were covered with paan stains. Electric wires were seen hanging precariously all over the room. 
 
 Open drains, caused by a damaged pipeline, was yet another eyesore in the area. The tiles of the recently   had also caved in at different points. "Be it illegal occupancy of hostel rooms or unhygenic living conditions, we have told the university about our problems. However, for one they will not conduct raids at the beginning of the academic session and secondly the administration does not have the guts to point fingers at us as they themselves are patronizing goons and are corrupt," said a student living in GN Jha hostel, on condition of anonymity. 
 
 AU public relations officer, Harsh Kumar, said, "As the high court has instructed us to get the hostels repaired, we would ensure that the same is done within the stipulated time frame."
 
 
