GHAZIABAD: The   administration on Tuesday launched a drive against illegal abattoirs operating in the city. The move came just days after   took over as chief minister of the state after BJP’s landslide win. 

 The crackdown is in line with BJP’s poll promise to close all illegal slaughterhouses in the state. The drive, which began early on Tuesday, saw the sealing of one   in Kaila Bhatta’s   while four meat shops in the area were also closed down. According to officials, at least eight roadside meat shops were closed down in  .
 
 District magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani said, “We had received a complaint that an illegal slaughterhouse is being run in Kaila Bhatta following which a team headed by   Sadar Atul Kumar was sent to the spot to verify the allegation.”
 
 Kumar, who reached Chaman Vihar early on Tuesday morning with a police team, told TOI that after verification they confirmed that a slaughterhouse was operational in the area. “We came to know a buffalo was slaughtered in a house in Kaila Bhatta following which it was sealed immediately and an FIR was lodged against Aslam. We also sealed four shops selling meat illegally,” said Kumar.
 
 A similar drive was conducted in Loni under additional district magistrate Gyanender Singh. “We found eight shops that were illegally selling meat and they were sealed. The drive will continue for the next few days,” said Singh.
 
 Activists welcomed the move. Ruchin Mehra of People for Animals said, “The issue of illegal slaughterhouses was never a priority for the administration even though there is a strict law and a 2015 National Green Tribunal order that clearly said the administration should act against such slaughterhouses.” Mehra said at least 75 illegal slaughterhouses are operating in Pasonda, Loni and Dasna. . 
 
 In Noida, SP city Dinesh Singh said police had received information about an illegal slaughterhouse in Sector 8. “A police team reached the spot but found it closed. We have not found any other illegal slaughterhouse in Noida,” he said.
 
 
