CHENNAI: The second season of the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) is set to benefit from  's immense cricketing acumen. The Sri Lankan legend has been appointed mentor of VB Thiruvallur Veerans and will look to help the B Aparajith-led outfit win the title this year.   spoke about the upcoming India-Sri Lanka series, R  's rise and on his role in TNPL-2.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I'm not going to be coaching in the TNPL. I'm just the mentor. Bharat Arun is the coach. My role will be to encourage the team and lend more awareness to the players. If the boys want to know anything from me, I will be open to sharing my experience. I have been a mentor and coach for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL as well. In short tournaments like these, it is difficult to coach one-on-one. Your main objective is winning matches and there isn't much time to focus on technical aspects. You can just advise them on how to put up a better performance so as to ensure that the team is tasting success.
 
 
 
 
 Since my retirement, I have not been involved in Sri Lankan cricket. It's been 5-6 years. I don't understand what's happening there. Without being aware of the situation, I don't think it will be right for me to comment. However, there is a problem. The performance of the team has dipped and they will have to rectify it. Bringing in Sangakkara, Jayawardene or me won't be a solution because we are all busy with other commitments. Sangakkara is still playing cricket and Mahela is busy with coaching commitments just like me. So, they will have to look for a solution themselves. 
 
 
 
 
 Obviously, India will start favourites. But there can be a surprise. Anything can happen in cricket as we all know.
 
 
 
 
 Ashwin always had talent. He had played first-class cricket for Tamil Nadu before making an impact in the IPL. Now, he has made use of that talent through his experience and playing with better players at the top level. MS Dhoni also deserves credit for guiding him in the right way when he first came into the IPL. He is now just going from strength to strength. He is a smart cricketer and is bowling at his best right now.
 
 
 
 
 I'm contracted with Sunrisers Hyderabad for the next couple of years. If an opportunity arrives, anyone will strive for it. CSK was the best team in the IPL before they were banned. Their comeback is going to be hard. It's not going to be the same as what you think. First time around, they had built a team from scratch and made sure that all their top players were retained year after year. Now, all the players are scattered and no one knows what the rules are going to be as far as player retention is concerned. They might not have the same dominance but they will still be close to the top.
 
 
 
 
 It's a personal battle between some past players and people. I won't like to comment on that. Anyone can say anything.
 
