NEW DELHI: Hoping to offset the effect on voters of a decade of incumbency,   president   on Saturday asked party workers not to consider the municipal polls as just a fight to win the corporations, but as laying the foundation for a victory in the assembly polls later. Then, to stave off the challenge of Aam Aadmi Party, Shah tore into Arvind Kejriwal’s state government and alleged it had failed to fulfil the promises it had made on providing clean and corruption-free governance.

 Addressing thousands of party workers at Ramlila Maidan, Shah said to loud cheers, “After 2014, we have won most elections, except the assembly polls in Delhi and Bihar. We have to paint Delhi in a saffron colour by winning the municipal polls.” He repeatedly pointed at the map of the BJP-ruled states near the dais that showed a near saffron India.
 
 Amid the incessant din of party slogans, the BJP chief asked the ‘panch parmeshwars’ — the quintets appointed to take charge of each booth — to tell people about both AAP’s inability to deliver on its promise and the corruption cases against its MLAs. “No previous government has indulged in so much corruption in such a short span of time. The appointments in Delhi Commission for Women, CNG permit scam, water tanker scam, streetlight scam, the list is long … one of the ministers was even questioned for his hawala link in a land scam,” alleged Shah.
 
 Listing some of the accusations against 13   MLAs, the BJP chief said the chief minister should explain their acts to the people and also set up an inquiry into corruption cases before the municipal election.
 
 In contrast, he told the BJP workers, no political rival has been able to accuse PM Narendra Modi’s government of wrongdoing. “It has been three years in power, but none of our opponents can level allegations of corruption against the Centre. Modiji has ensured financial discipline,” he said, as party workers kept a constant chant of “Modi, Modi” going.
 
 Exaggerating a bit, Shah said that AAP “was setting a new record in losing elections because people have rejected their politics”, obviously alluding to the rival’s poor performance in the recent Punjab and Goa assembly polls. He alleged the losses had come despite the AAP government misusing the taxpayers’ money for the party’s publicity in other states.
 
 With less than a month left for polling, Shah told workers that they had to convince people about the Modi government’s achievement and AAP’s failures. Cautioning them, Shah said that the chief minister would again announce a list of populist measures to win the corporation polls.
 
 The other BJP speakers accused Delhi government of stalling development in the capital. Union urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu said, “Delhi government is not ready to work with the centre for the development of the city. AAP is not even ready to talk to the PM. We need a chief minister who is ready to work with the centre and the municipalities.”
 
 Ironically for a local body poll rally, the BJP leaders didn’t say anything about the successes of the three municipal corporations where BJP has been in power since 2007.
 
