HYDERABAD: Alarm bells are ringing in the states of   and   in the wake of rise in demand for drinking   in 30 towns of the two states even as water levels have dropped to barely 64 tmc feet in the two major reservoirs of Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar. 

 Hyderabad, which depends heavily on Krishna water, is waiting to receive about 5 tmc feet of water exclusively to quench thirst of over one crore people in the   (GHMC) limits. 
 
 With both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh fighting over their share for remaining water in the two reservoirs,   (KRMB) dashed off letters to two states asking them to reveal the actual figures of their consumption.
 
 Against the requirement of 5 tmc feet water, the KRMB has allocated only 4 tmc water, which seems to be doubtful in the wake of dwindling water levels in both reservoirs. For the month of January, the KRMB has allotted 35 tmc feet water for AP, and 17 tmc for Telangana in December, 2016. Telangana objected to 70:30 ratio water distribution between AP and Telangana stating that it was against the spirit of the AP Reorganisation Act. 
 
 It also made it clear to the board that water released for Hyderabad should not be included in the quantum of water allotted to Telangana, which was opposed by AP.
 
 “Several towns in either side of river Krishna depend on fresh inflows into Nagarjunasagar left and right canals. As there was no water release from Srisailam dam, water release from Nagarjunasagar also got delayed. Due to the ongoing Rabi season, agriculture demand has also gone up and farmers have started diverting water in every possible manner”, pointed a senior engineer in Telangana irrigation department.
 
 According to KRMB officials there was a shortfall of 6.16 tmc feet water from the total available water on January 10, 2017. While AP confessed that it had utilised 39.75 tmc, Telangana got 19.5 tmc in December month.
 
  As per the order issued by KRMB member-secretary Sameer Chatterjee, Nagarjunasagar left canal should get 13 tmc and Handri Neeva, NS right canal and Krishna delta in AP should get 32 tmc.
 
 
