NAGPUR: Some candidates who lost the   ( ) elections have alleged large-scale rigging of electronic voting machines (EVMs), and attributed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) thumping victory to this fraud.

 aking out a protest rally from Chitnis Park in Mahal to the district collectorate on Thursday, these candidates from different political parties reviewed possible causes behind their dismal performance in civic polls. They have also approached the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court alleging EVMs were tampered.
 
 After marching for around 7km via Kelibagh Road, Badkas Chowk, Central Avenue and RBI Square, the protesters staged a demonstration outside the district collectorate. A delegation of leaders from the Congress,  , BSP, and Indian Muslim League, comprising Raman Thaokar, Suresh Jagyasi, Vishal Muttemwar, Sheikh Hussain, Kishore Dorle and Kiran Patankar met district collector Sachin Kurve. They submitted a memorandum demanding a re-poll since elections were not held as per Article 32 of the Indian Constitution.
 
 “Conduct of election through EVMs is not reliable and use of ballot papers must be brought back to the democratic process of the country,” said Shiv Sena ex-corporator Suresh Talvekar.
 
 Many unsuccessful candidates claimed though there was no visible wave in favour of BJP, the party posted a landslide victory through rigging and manipulation of EVMs. They alleged that winning 108 out of 151 seats by BJP in the civic elections was testimony of the fact. “Snag in EVMs and bogus voting at many places led to the defeat of a large number of candidates,” said former Congress corporator Suresh Jagyasi.
 
 The   had even directed the   of India to investigate after many experts had given their opinions on manipulation of EVMs during elections, they added.
 
 They pointed out that the USA had banned use of EVMs after many controversies. Ireland and Germany had also banned conduct of election through EVMs in 2006 and 2009 respectively. It has been accepted all over the world that ballot papers are the most reliable method for conduct of any election, she added.
 
 Shiv Sena leader and ex-deputy mayor Shekhar Sawarbandhe accused the Election Commission of ignoring the Supreme Court directives, which had in 2013 asked EC to introduce Vote Verifier Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) system with the EVMs from the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 “The VVPAT system with EVMs will ensure accuracy of voting and also help in manual counting of votes in case of dispute,” Sawarbandhe said, referring to the apex court directives. “With an intent to have transparency in the system and restore confidence of the voters, it was necessary to set up EVMs with VVPAT system,” he said. But the central government, which was supposed to help the EC financially, ignored this.
 
 
