Chandigarh: With a recent budget cut for all laboratories of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) has initiated a move to make up for the fund crunch. In an attempt to showcase its technology for industries to invest, Imtech is organising a three-day ‘Industry-Academia Meet’ from October 4. 

 The meet will be attended by scientists from Singapore, US, Egypt and Dubai, pharmaceutical industries and venture capitalists. The aim is to enable engagement with key industry and academia leaders and establish a platform where the institute can forge new R&D partnerships and alliances. “The objective is to show our infrastructure, open up the system to the rest of the world, and find ways to collaborate. For instance, we are working on a cure for TB for several years, but it cannot lead to any translation or drug discovery unless we have collaborators,” said Dr Anil Koul, director of IMTECH.
 
 The meeting will help scientists develop new networks with researchers across the globe. Some speakers in the meet include Dr Girish Sahni, director general of CSIR; Dr Stef Heylen, chief operating officer of Janssen R&D; Dr Soumya Swaminathan, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research; Dr Yoshi Kobayashi, head of antibody-drug conjugate alliance management Daiichi Sankyo Pharma Development; Pinaki Panigrahi, professor of epidemiology and pediatrics at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, College of Public Health, US.
 
 Dr Panigrahi will deliver a talk, ‘Probiotics to prevent sepsis: What are the next steps?’, on the first day. The next day will have two sessions on opportunities and challenges in anti-microbial drug discovery and another session on human microbiome in health and disease. On the concluding day, there will be sessions on new innovations and start ups and future of bio therapeutics. 
 
 Each session will be followed by a panel discussion. To motivate the young scientists and orient them towards working for industrial production, there will be a session on success stories. 
 
 
