NEW DELHI: The chorus for building a Ram temple is growing within the BJP as more and more outrageous public utterances by party workers suggest.

 The latest such utterance came today from  , a BJP legislator from Hyderabad. He went so far as to suggest the beheading of those opposed to building a Ram temple on the disputed Ayodhya site where Hindu nationalists destroyed the   in 1992, ANI reported. 
 
 "To those who warn of dire consequences if Ram Mandir built. We were waiting for you to say this so we can behead you," said Singh.
 
 The MLA has made similar comments before. In December 2015, he threatened a lynching similar to that of  's in Dadri near Noida in September 2015. He said he and his like-minded colleagues were ready to kill to protect cows. Akhlaq was killed by a ghoulish 
  .
 
 "We warn them against a Dadri-like incident in Telangana. We can both give our lives and take life for the sake of protecting the cow", he said back then.
 
 
 
 
 Just yesterday, Singh's party colleague   also strongly expressed her support for the construction of a Ram temple. The Union water resources minister said that a temple in Ayodhya was a matter of belief for her and 
  .
 
 "Ram temple is a matter of belief for me and I have immense pride in it... if I have to go to jail for it I will go, if I have to hang myself for it I will do it," said Bharti after a meeting with Uttar Pradesh chief minister  , another self-professed lover and protector of cows, who's also in favour of a Ram temple being built on the disputed Ayodhya site.
 
 In February, before his party, the BJP, swept Uttar Pradesh in the Assembly elections, Adityanath said that hurdles on the path of the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya will be gradually removed and its 
  . 
 
  He also said 'Ram Bhakts' (Ram devotees) will play a key role in the construction of a Ram Temple at Ayodhya. "  did whatever happened in Ayodhya and in future whatever will be done, it will be done by them," he said. 
 
 "Whatever happened in Ayodhya" was a clear reference to the destruction of the 16th century mausoleum of Mughal emperor Babar.
 
 
  
 
