MYSURU: Early this week, chief minister   called up a close aide of  , Congress’ prospective candidate at   assembly segment, and checked about the tour plan. When he got to know that she is planning to complete the tour of zilla panchayat constituencies later this week, he told the aide to ask her not to relax.

 Given that it is an acid test for him, the chief minister is keeping close track of the party’s prospective candidates Geetha and   in   even as he is devising strategies to retain the two constituencies held by Congress in the 2013 elections. He will launch the party’s poll campaign from Gundlupet on Sunday, when he is expected to announce Geetha’s name formally.
 
 Sources close to Geetha told The Times of India that he called the political greenhorn earlier this week and asked her to stay battle-ready. “The chief minister was particular that the candidates will have to go the extra mile,” they noted. It is crucial for the Siddaramaiah government as it heads into the election year.
 
 On a day when the calendar for the bypolls were announced, Keshavmurthy continued his tour of Nanjangud, asking Congress workers to attend the Sunday’s rally. His name is also expected to be announced at the rally. But Mysuru District Congress Committee chief B J Vijaykumar did not want to let the cat out of the bag. The party leaders will announce the candidate at the rally he said, adding that the fight is between Congress and BJP. “It is not a fight between candidates, but between parties,” he told reporters at Nanjangud, where he reviewed the preparations being made for the rally. Along with Siddaramaiah, KPCC chief G Parameshwara will attend the rallies which coincide with the day when the results of the five states, mainly Uttar Pradesh, which went to polls in February-March, will be out.
 
 While Congress is yet to announce its candidates, BJP has announced the candidature of former minister V Srinivas Prasad for Nanjangud and C S Niranjan Kumar for Gundlupet. The party’s state unit chief B S   is launching the campaign at Devanuru on Sunday. He will hold a roadshow at four zilla panchayat constituencies on Sunday and Monday. Former minister B Sriramulu will accompany him. Having toured the constituencies ahead of the announcement of the byelections, Yeddyurappa has indicated that the saffron party will take on the chief minister at his home turf. 
 
 Given that the political heat will pick up owing to high stakes at Nanjangud, Mysuru district administration is planning to get additional forces from outside the district for the smooth conduct of the polls. It is also planning to employ at least two companies of paramilitary force. Each company of paramilitary force will have 250 personnel.
 
 
