JAIPUR: After failing miserably in achieving targets of constructing affordable houses under ambitious Prime Minister’s scheme, the   (JDA) will now write letters to the   ( ) and   (LIG) category allottees of its   to construct houses. 

 As per records, in the past 15 years, the JDA had developed plots for EWS and LIG categories in nearly 50 of its housing schemes. The JDA will also assist EWS and LIG plot owners to seek loan from banks and provide subsidy on interest amount of loan up to Rs 1.5 lakh. 
 
 “We will soon invite online and offline applications. The camps will also be organised for the same. The target can be achieved in this manner,” said an official source at JDA. 
 
 Under the Jan Awas Yojana scheme, the Centre provides subsidy of Rs 1.5 lakh for construction of houses to this category up to the plot size of 75 sq metre. The JDA in its letter will inform the owners about the perks provided by the Centre. 
 
 To meet the target, the JDA recently planned to develop a new scheme for LIG and EWS. However, it was shelved as only 35 applicants were qualifying to purchase the plot in this category. 
 
 “For the scheme, we have received 700 applications. But, most of the applicants were from other cities of the state. Also applicants already had plots in RHB and JDA schemes,” said official.
 
 Besides, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has proposed several amendments in the affordable housing policy to motivate developers to construct houses for EWS and LIG on both private and government land.
 
 To achieve the target of constructing 10 lakh houses till 2018 under the Housing For All scheme, the state government will now focus on providing free land for affordable housing projects on public private partnership (PPP) mode.
 
 In the policy, under provisions 4(A) and 4(B), the EWS/LIG houses will be developed on government land by a private developer. Around 75% of such government land shall be used for EWS/LIG people, while the remaining 25% can be sold by the developer.
 
 “We have proposed to give priority to this model due to cold response from developers to construct EWS/LIG houses on private land. Though the final decision will only be taken after receiving approval from the cabinet,” added UDH official.
 
 
