THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though V M Sudheeran cited health issues as the reason to quit, non-cooperation by the powerful A-group and his inability to unite all groups are the real reasons that led to the resignation. 

 Of late Sudheeran was finding it very difficult to run the party as he was not getting any support from the majority of senior leaders. He was not the choice of the party leaders in the state when he became the KPCC president in February 2014. When   and   were pitching for G Karthikeyan to the post, Sudheeran emerged as a surprise choice of the party high command.
 
 Oommen Chandy, who was the then CM, devised plans to push Sudheeran out, but the high command came to the rescue of the latter. Even after the humiliating defeat in the last assembly poll, the high command did not disown Sudheeran. It was then that Chandy decided not to cooperate with the party leadership anymore. He was even boycotting the KPCC political affairs committee meeting which put Sudheeran under tremendous pressure.
 
 Chandy then demanded an organizational poll in the party which could have dethroned Sudheeran. But, the high command took a strategy to delay the organizational revamp.
 
 Meanwhile, the KPCC started facing acute fund crunch following the backing out of regular benefactors who cited tough and ideological stance taken by the KPCC president in issues ranging from bar closure to permission for quarrying.
 
 The KPCC was cash-rich when Ramesh left the KPCC president post, but the coffers are almost empty now. This has caused a crisis in the party organs like Jai Hind television channel and Veekshanam newspaper.
 
 "It was not easy for him to run the party, particularly when the two powerful leaders were not cooperating with him," said a senior party leader.
 
 If the AICC had roped in Sudheeran to put an end to the group war in the party he failed on that front too and had to face tough challenges from both the A and I groups right from the day he took charge of the party.
 
 It was his stand against the bars which strained the relation between him and Chandy. Chandy who was the chief minister then decided to close down all the bars without even consulting with the party. "There was a view within the party then that Sudheeran was functioning as an opposition leader against the UDF government's policies," said a KPCC executive committee member.
 
 Sudheeran's tough stand against giving tickets to tainted leaders for contesting in the last assembly election worsened the crisis. The high command was not ready to listen to leaders like Chandy and Ramesh on the choice of candidates. Sudheeran had stood strong against the candidature of   and   from contesting the election. It was when Chandy threatened of withdrawing from the fray, which forced the high command to soften the stand and give a ticket for Adoor Prakash to contest.
 
