ALLAHABAD/VARANASI: If posters of ruling   and   dominated public places in Lucknow on the run-up to the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, posters and wall paintings of many BJP ticket seekers competed for attention in the eastern UP before they were brought down by the administration after the announcement of poll dates.
 
  What should hearten the BJP, which has been in a virtual political exile in state politics since 2002, is the surnames on these potential ticket seekers.
  
  In a tour across several districts in eastern UP, ET found several BJP posters bearing surnames such as  ,  ,  ,  , and Yadav among others — all associated with backward communities.
  
  There were large wall-paintings and posters of Shivshankar Patel and Sarvesh Kushwaha in Mughalsarai assembly segment in Chandauli district; Sudama Patel, Anil Rajbhar and Ashok Yadav in Shivpur assembly segment of Varanasi; Ramanand Pal and Vandana Maurya in Chayal assembly segment in Kaushambi district; and Piyush Ranjan Nishad, Nandlal Patel and Gyan Singh Patel in Karchhana assembly segment of Allahabad district.
  
  There were BJP posters bearing upper caste surnames as well in many constituencies, of course, but the saffron party’s increased OBC appeal is visible on posters across eastern UP.
  
  It remains to be seen the OBC representation remains strong after candidate selection given how Upper caste candidates dominated BJP's unsuccessful bid for power in Patna (Bihar) in 2015.
  
  Most posters, it appears, were erected during BJP's 'Parivartan Yatras' in November-December, and bear a clear mention of 'assembly constituency numbers' prominently to ensure their names and constituency association is registered in the minds of senior state and central leaders who participated in the yatras at the time of candidate selection.
  
  The run up to previous elections in UP used to be dominated by posters of BJP's upper caste and trading community leaders - reinforcing BJP's impression as an upper caste-bania party. It was only when tickets were assigned one could see OBC candidate's posters. But, this time OBC hopefuls have raised their presence even in the run up to the elections.
  
  For a party that came to be largely associated with upper castes and trading communities since rebellion of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh in 1999-2000, so many posters of OBC leaders reflect its increased appeal among these communities.
  
  However, reactions of many supporters of these OBC ticket hopefuls also expose the risk that BJP may have to brace up after candidate selection despite this visible surge of OBC community leaders towards the party. Many non-traditional BJP supporting respondents, at times, cited these local candidates for BJP as their electoral preference.
  
  “If   (who hails from backward Bind community) gets the ticket, we will vote for BJP. Else, I will have to consider afresh,” said Amaranth Bind, in his early 30s, at Saheri-Mod in Ghazipur Sadar assembly segment.
  
  Though most posters have now been pulled down by the administration after the poll announcement, which brought in the model code of conduct, ET could spot few posters of Sangita Balwant in some narrow lanes of Ghazipur district headquarters.
  
  Though Bind villagers in next door Fatehullahpur pronounced their preference for BJP, denial of ticket to the claimant from the community could change it.
  
  Similar could be cases in other assembly segments where many OBC leaders have made their claim but are eventually denied tickets.
  
  In fact, ET did find many OBC supporters pledging support to BJP and mentioning one of their community leaders on posters to buttress their support.
  
  BJP supporters admitted that there are many claimants for tickets this time around and generally refer to a figure upwards of a dozen in many of the constituencies.
  
  While this increased poster presence of non-traditional community leaders in various constituencies across eastern UP suggests BJP's emergence as a magnate to these groups seeking their recognition outside the identity politics of incumbent SP and rival BSP, it runs the risk of annoying many when candidates are selected in a week or two.
  
  BJP has so far ran a very tight ship avoiding thorny issues like CM candidate and has not faced missteps like RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's remarks on review of reservations ahead of Bihar elections in 2015. However, their challenge will be managing dissatisfaction after candidate selection from spreading among the newly acquired social groups after denial of tickets at local level. 
