Centuries ago, mural artists and painters arrived on the shores of the Konkan belt, bringing with them a unique art form that etches tales from folklore and local culture. This unique but largely-ignored technique of wall art, known for its use of the rich Konkan red soil, is today fading away.
 
  One theory is that Kaavi came from the plains of the Saraswati, and took root in Goa around 600 years ago, when its practitioners, mainly Saraswats, migrated to Goa to escape from political and environmental adversities.
  
  The name Kaavi is derived from the local name for the maroon-red pigment made from laterite soil which is used to etch beautiful reddish-brown murals in lotus motifs and other floral patterns in religious as well as secular institutions. Over the centuries, these murals have given a distinct identity to shrines, temples, churches and mosques on the Malwan, Konkan and   coasts, transcending linguistic, religious and communal barriers along the way.
  
  Unlike today’s painting process, Kaavi is a labour of love, requiring patience and skill to produce intricate monochrome motifs that go on to weather time and the vagaries of nature.
  
  “Snow white lime, obtained by burning seashells, and washed sand from river beds are mixed with jaggery and allowed to ferment for two weeks. The mixture is then hand-pounded and applied to walls. A mixture of lime and the red-brown pigment is smeared and left for an hour after which the engraving commences. A well-trained art mason can etch a small mural without any aids,” said researcher  .
  
  Traditionally, Kaavi can be seen on walls, columns and ceilings, while also being used to delineate sacred spaces and niches in temples and homes. Circles, semi-circles, triangles, squares, hexagons, and octagons are employed by the artist to weave a mosaic that is not only impressive but also depicts the culture of the time.
  
  “An expert artist attends to all the details of different characters. For instance, in a mural depicting Draupadi, her head decorations, pig-tail, ornaments, blouse and saree designs are engraved in such minute detail that one can use the painting to study dresses and ornaments from that period,” Kamat writes.
  
  The Charles Correia Foundation based in Panaji has identified and documented 21 temples and four houses in Goa that have Kaavi present on them. Temples from Pernem, Sattari, Canacona, Ponda displayed Kaavi murals. “Besides being used to decorate walls, it is used to delineate a sacred space,” author and heritage activist Heta Pandit said.
  
  Kaavi is also testimony of the early Hindu’s bid to escape the Inquisition. Early motifs of Kaavi mostly involve acquatic life such as lotus and waves but as the artisans fled Goa, the motifs gained   influences. Pandit has taken it upon herself to conserve and promote this dying art form. According to stakeholders no living Kaavi artisan remains, making it all the more critical to prevent the art from being lost to posterity, Pandit says.
  
  Kamat’s authoritative book ‘Konkanyangele Kavikala’ states that though Kaavi artists have not left behind their identity, they have jotted down the themes of the murals in devanagari script along with the murals. Some records are available indicating the year in which the art was completed. “For instance, the Mahalasa Narayani temple of Kumta was constructed in 1565 and Ramamandir of Honavar was erected four centuries ago. No temple constructed in the last fifty years contains any Kaavi art that is worth mentioning,” he says.
  
  A few specimens of Kaavi art in temples in the Konkan areas can still be seen in parts of Goa, but renovation and reconstruction of these temples spell doom for the fast-disappearing art form.
  
  Preservation of this dying art form does not appear simple either. A debate has been raging over the techniques, especially the use of red oxide, to preserve existing specimens of the art.
  
  A decade ago, the temple of Shantadurga situated at the foothills of the Western Ghats in Caranzol of Sattari, exhibited paintings of gods and goddesses along with the floral designs in red patterns. Local villagers demolished the old one and built a new structure, wiping out the age old Kaavi art. “If the wall gets damaged, or gets dirty, they paint it . A purist may say the art is destroyed but the motifs are preserved. I think it is still positive if Kaavi is being restored through paint or red oxide,” Pandit said.
  
  The state government has also failed to throw its weight behind Kaavi, which is still not widely recognized by art lovers. Very little mention is made of Kaavi in books on art and history, and the current lack of interest in retaining these murals also spells the death knell for this Konkan treasure.
