A day after ending her campaign with a rally in Varanasi,   chief   was back in her palatial bungalow here, but her entire party cadre was spread out in the 40 assembly constituencies where polling will be held in the seventh and last phase on March 8. 

 As she crisscrossed the state to address as many as 58 big rallies over a month, she followed a script she'd been working on since the rout at BJP's hands in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Confident of the plan working, most BSP netas TOI spoke to reiterate what Mayawati's been saying in her rallies after the first phase on February 11: Jhamajham vote pad rahe hain (Votes are pouring in for the party)". Having initiated preparations much ahead of her opponents, Mayawati kept her ear to the ground and tweaked her strategy accordingly, positioning herself squarely against   to corner the Muslim vote bank of the other rival SP. It was reactionary politics, say experts. 
 
 When her party was hit by rebellion - close to 12 MLAs switched over to BJP-Mayawati started looking for disenchanted ranks in the rival parties. She got the biggest opportunity when a raging feud broke out in SP. She not only inducted SP patriarch  's loyalists, like Ambika Chaudhary, Narad Rai and Vijay Mishra in her party but also allowed the merger of Mukhtar Ansari's Qaumi Ekta Dal with the BSP.
 
 The former UP CM has also been doling out promises. Aware of the backlash over her decision to construct memorials that was termed a waste of public money, Mayawati has assured she "would not do it again". A flurry of promises she made include waiving farmer loans, posting of police personnel in their home range and keeping working couples together in one district. This was apart from her other strategy to allow senior party functionaries, like Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Misra and MLC Naseemuddin Siddiqui, to hold independent public meetings. Party sources said the meetings would continue till Monday when the campaign for the last phase ends.
 
 The character of the meetings too, say party sources, changed. Misra, leading the charge to consolidate Brahmin voters with the Dalit outfit as part of tested social engineering, campaigned in Muslim-dominated areas. Likewise, Siddiqui, the powerful zonal coordinator of communally sensitive west UP, moved around in Muslim and Dalit-dominated areas as part of a broader Dalit-Muslim consolidation on which Mayawati seeks to turn her political fortunes around.
 
 
