KOLKATA: Commuters within Sector V can soon cycle their way around as the   to develop a dedicated cycle track along the   Bypass, which connects the IT hub with   Besides, Sector V may get diet roads, an   in which the width of certain roads are narrowed down to accommodate parallel lanes for motorists, pedestrians and cyclists. 

 The authorities are also toying with the idea of allowing vehicles, with registration numbers ending in odd and even digits, to ply odd- and even-numbered roads respectively in the IT hub; all the 38 roads in Sector V are already being numbered and road signs are being put up.
 
 All these proposals are part of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA)’s mega plan to develop the traffic system at Sector V into a pleasant experience for commuters. Accordingly, experts from IIT-Kharagpur, along with senior Bidhannagar traffic police officers and NDITA officials, took a bus ride through Sector V on Monday, exploring all the 38 roads inside the IT hub to check how travel could be improved there. 
 
 “We want to come up with a system that would ensure a comfortable and happy experience for commuters within Sector V. Following consultation with the traffic police and other stakeholders, the IIT team will submit a report within six months, following which their recommendations could be implemented after considering the pros and cons,” said NDITA chairman Debashis Sen. Besides the 1.5 lakh people visiting Sector V every day to work, a tiny population of 400 lives there.
 
  “Most of the roads have already been made one-way. Some other basic norms, such as separate pick-up and drop-off points and shuttle services, could be introduced. A system could be developed through which real-time information on public transport could be conveyed to commuters. All these together can work towards an improved, hassle-free transport system,” said D Pandit, an associate professor of IIT’s architecture and regional planning department. An NDITA official added that IIT experts would prepare a detailed project report on the feasibility of having a dedicated cycling track along Salt Lake Bypass.
 
 Among the other measures are regular road repairs and clean-up and a multi-storeyed car parking facility. 
 
 
