PUNE: Senior citizens of the city put their younger counterparts to shame as they trooped to polling booths on Tuesday, beating ill health and ailments to have their say in the civic body formation.

 Doddering and in poor health but determined to vote, Zahra Hasan (76), a resident of  , reached the polling booth at the RIMS International School and Junior College around 8.30 am clutching on to her daughter-in-law.
 
 “She has not been keeping well for the past 10 days and I repeatedly told her to stay at home and rest. But she was determined to exercise her franchise,” the daughter-in-law said.
 
 As the duo walked towards the booth, Hasan said, “These people don’t understand the importance of voting.”
 
 The zeal to vote among the senior citizens was in evidence as a significant number of elderly citizens turned out to exercise their democratic rights.
 
 Anant Kulkarni (73), who has been suffering from paralysis on the left side of his body, said that he had never missed an opportunity to vote since 1965.
 
 “It cannot be missed under any circumstances. I might be ill but voting is something very important. If we don’t vote, we don’t have the right to complain,” Kulkarni, a resident of Yash Platinum in the Dhayari area of the city, told TOI.
 
 His son, Mangesh (36), who was with him, said that he had never stopped his father from exercising his franchise.
 
 “He has not been keeping well but is very excited about voting. He is an inspiration for me as well as for many others who think voting is a waste of time. I have voted in all the elections and am proud to accompany my father,” Mangesh said.
 
 For Suniti Bhide (88), it was an uphill task to reach the polling booth in  . Though the polling officer had allowed her son to bring the car inside the Muktangan English School premises, the actual polling booth was some distance away and she had to walk. Bhide halted several times and rested till she reached the booth but did not give up.
 
 "I have always voted in every election and did not want my vote to go waste," she said with a smile. She was given a chair to sit for a while to catch her breath after casting her vote by a policeman on duty inside the booth.
 
 With the authorities claiming that elaborate arrangements had been made for senior citizens and the differently abled in all the polling booths, the elderly still had to face some problems.
 
 But undaunted they were even it meant climbing up the stairs on all fours. “A 93-year-old lady literally crawled up the stairs to reach the polling booth,” a voter said.
 
 were ramps at some places but some of them were occupied by young people, forcing the elderly to take the stairs. For example, at the Baburao Katke School in  , the ramp meant for the senior citizens was being used by young people.
 
 At a municipal school located at the Shastrinagar area in Kothrud, the ramps were missing which created problems for the senior citizens. In one instance, a senior citizen had to be carried up the stairs by his relatives and brought back after he cast his vote.
 
 Some citizens had to travel considerable distance from one centre to another with the last-minute change in the voting booth.
 
 Despite the troubles, the enthusiasm among the senior citizens was hardly to be missed. Sunanda (87) and Keshav Chudekar (92) came out beaming after casting votes at a polling booth in ward number-3.
 
 The couple, residents of   board, was a little confused about the panel system of voting but finally cast their votes without any difficulty.
 
 "We have not missed a single election all these years and always make it a point to vote. With age, we have become physically infirm and often need support to walk. However, these difficulties have not deterred us from exercising our right to franchise. My husband in fact has some problem with reading yet he told me this morning that no matter what, we have to reach the polling booth," Sunanda Chudekar said.
 
