CHANDIGARH:   has revealed that it is   1,000 cusecs of water per day to Delhi against its daily entitlement of around 725 cusecs. The state government said its stand on the issue was clear, and if Delhi wanted to move the Supreme Court by filing a contempt petition, it was ready to contest its case strongly.

 Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, at a press conference in Delhi on Tuesday, had blamed Haryana for holding back its quota of water. He had ordered the Delhi Jal Board to file a contempt of court petition in the Supreme Court against Haryana apart from seeking Prime Minister’s intervention in the matter. Delhi’s central and north areas had been facing water crisis since May 8.
 
 Even though the Delhi Jal Board senior officials claimed that Haryana should release its share of 1,169 cusecs water per day, principal secretary of Haryana irrigation department   stated, “As per papers, Delhi is only authorized to get around 725 cusecs of water per day from Haryana. In view of the good neighbour understanding, Haryana is always ready to share extra water and as of now Yamuna is expected to get more water due to melting of ice more water can be released to Delhi.”
 
 Rubbishing Delhi government’s allegations, Rastogi clarified that Haryana had been supplying over 1,000 cusecs of water to Delhi regularly but since there was leakage in Narwana canal branch near Ghaggar on May 8, Haryana could supply only 705 cusecs to Delhi against the authorized 725 cusecs. 
 
 Apart from the Yamuna water, Haryana also receives 0.2 million acre-feet (276 cusecs) of water from Punjab’s Bhakra main line as Delhi’s share and then supplies it to the Capital through Narwana canal branch. “The leakage in the canal has been plugged and by Thursday evening we expect additional share of water to reach Wazirabad pond in Delhi,” said Rastogi. The officer said he is in contact with Delhi Jal Board chief executive officer Keshav Chandra.
 
 Irrigation department records mention that from April 15 to May 5, Wazirabad pond in Delhi was supplied an average of 125 cusecs of additional water by Haryana from division drain No. 8.
 
 “If Delhi plans to move Supreme Court, it is mistaken. As per the court’s order, Haryana should release much less water to Delhi from March to June which is 0.076 billion cubic meter,” said Rastogi. The Supreme Court’s February 29, 1996, verdict also reads, “So far as water supply from   (Yamuna) to Delhi is concerned, we order and direct that Delhi shall continue to get as much water for domestic use from Haryana through river Jamuna which can be consumed and filled in the two water reservoirs and treatment plants at Wazirabad and Hyderpur.
 
