Gold bounced back 89 points to 29,674 during evening trade today after touching a low of 29,510 during intra-day trade. At, 5.20 pm, the gold for expiry in October gained 89 points to 29,674 and the metal for expiry in the month of December inched up 107 points to 29,807.  In the early trade today, the metal dropped 51 points to 29,534 per 10 gram as the concerns over the North Korea eased over the weekend and firm US dollar. The gold for expiry in the month of October was trading 51 points down at 29,534 and the metal for expiry in the month of December were 20 points low at 29,680.  In the US, spot gold fell 0.3 per cent to $1,293.35 per ounce and the gold futures for December delivery were nearly unchanged at $1,297.10 per ounce.  On September 24, the United States announced that it has added North Korea to its list of countries that are banned from entering the country. Tola is an ancient measurement unit which was used in some Asian countries as well. Nowadays, it usage is restricted to gold measurement only. Today, one tola of gold is equals to 10 grams.  Ounce is a common measurement unit used for weighing precious metals such as gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rhodium, etc. In ancient times, it was used in Britain to measure various traded goods. It the United States, Ounce is still used in the day-to-day retail sale of groceries and many other domestic and international trade process.  You see changes in gold price daily. There are various political, economical and global factors that affect the gold price. The GDP rates, stock market indices, currencies exchange rates, gold mining, gold consumption rate, wars, sanctions against other countries and many other such events at local and global level have an impact on the gold price globally.  The gold's purity is measured in Karat. A 24 Karat gold is the purest form of gold which is generally sold as gold bars and gold coins. The different Karat of gold is used to make different gold based items such as bars, coins, jewellery etc.  Gold has lost its charm as an investment option in recent years. The return on gold investment has been less satisfactory than before. From FY 2008 to FY 2017, the foreign portfolio investors (FPI) bought around $124 billion of Indian equity shares, increasing the price three-fold.  Gold is popular not only as a jewellery item but has a history of being the most favoured investment option for centuries. Buying a gold today can give you good returns in long period, therefore, it is crucial that you know the quality and purity of the gold you are buying.  Gold has been a popular form of investment all across the world for thousands of years. But there has been a decrease in investment in physical form of gold and new age investors are experiment with new options such as gold ETF, gold equity funds, gold mutual funds etc.  After much debate on the issue of tax reform in the gold price, finally, a rate of 3 per cent tax was fixed on gold under the new tax reform GST. With the implementation of GST, the prices of gold jewellery went up slightly, triggering a panic for short duration.  The profit earned from the sale of your gold is taxable under the 'Captial Gains' for individuals and in case of gold and jewellery dealers, it is taxable under 'Profits and gains of business or profession'. The gold sold can either be purchased by you or gifted to you or acquired by inheritance.  Gold is one of the oldest precious metals to be known to humankind. For thousands of years the gold has been valued as an investment option and admired for its beauty. As a financial asset, gold for years has maintained its value and purchasing power even during inflationary periods.     