KOLKATA: This season has turned out to be a truly testing one for city students, trying hard to shake off their exam fever in more ways than one. With the mercury fluctuating, bugs and viruses have been rampant, triggering influenza and chickenpox. For scores of Kolkata board examinees, it has been a journey between the   bed and the exam hall over the last fortnight.

 Akash Agarwala, a student of Class XII in Birla High Boys School will be on his way to the examination centre on Thursday with chickenpox rashes. Mother Sarita fears her son might break down while writing his examination. Struck by the disease on the first day of the board exam, Akash has been weak and groggy. “Last week, he complained of severe body ache after taking his first paper with high fever. There were red patches on his body and we rushed him to the doctor who confirmed our worst fears,” said Sarita. His school has requested the authorities of Ashok Hall Girls’ Higher Secondary School to make special sitting arrangement for Akash. “We received the information on Tuesday and immediately took the necessary steps,” said Mukta Nain, principal of Birla High Boys.
 
 Akash is not the only one grappling with disease while taking his exams. On Wednesday, Soumyajyoti Roy took his ISC mathematics test from   with a high temperature. “I am on medicines to keep the fever in check. I shall visit a doctor today,” said Soumyajyoti after emerging from the exam hall.
 
  student Rahul had been vaccinated against chickenpox but was still struck by the seasonal  . An ISC examinee, Rahul was diagnosed last Friday. “The school authorities have helped us by arranging for a separate exam room. But Rahul is very stressed. The sudden chikenpox attack has left him nervous,” said Rahul’s father, working in an IT firm.
 
 Rahul has been trying his best to overcome the discomfort, but it has not been easy. “The disease has made it very difficult to focus on the paper,” he said.
 
 At Aryan School, three students are taking the   with chickenpox. “We have our own infirmary. Our staff is present along with an invigilator. The students have been provided with masks and sanitizer as well as gloves as precaution. We are separately packing the answer scripts in a separate envelope and informed the council. Additional envelopes will be provided by the council. This time it has been exceptionally bad,” said Keka Mallik, principal of Aryan School.
 
 Class X CBSE examinee Neelak Roychowdhury, a student of South Point High School, is another one down with chickenpox. “Till now, Neelak doesn’t have fever. But, my son is complaining of extreme weakness. We have submitted the prescriptions from the doctor to the school authorities and requested them to quarantine him,” said father Somnath Roychowdhury, a businessman in Howrah.
 
 Doctors are recommending a nutritious and high-protein diet, lots of fluid-intake and paracetamol tablets to keep the fevers in check. “Students suffering from chicken pox should remain quarantined and under constant medical supervision. In case of viral fever, watch out for diarrhoea and headache. These have to be controlled during exams,” said  , consultant, AMRI Hospital.
 
