PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Transport utility   has sought citizens’ participation to prepare a business plan for improving bus services in the Pune Metropolitan region, which includes Pimpri Chinchwad.

 For this, citizens engagement workshops have been organized at Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Kalamandir, Aundh on January 12 and at Auto Cluster, Pimpri on January 19.
 
 PMPML has also invited bids from companies and private agencies to prepare short term (3 years), medium term (8 to 10 years), and long term (10 to 20 years) plans. Initially, PMPML would assess the existing financial, operational and institutional aspects. PMPML officials said currently, there is no short or long term plan for the transport undertaking.
 
 They said the plan will outline how the PMPML should go about the replacement of buses, expansion and improvement of the fleets, supporting infrastructure and operational systems, such as bus stops, terminals, depots, information technology systems, passenger information and branding.
 
 The private entity will have to present a roadmap to ensure a sustainable growth path for the transport undertaking and to achieve targets specified in the comprehensive mobility plans prepared by the municipal corporations in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. According to officials, before preparing the business plan, the entity would have to study the route rationalisation report by Institute for   (ITDP) approved in May 2012, comprehensive mobility plans for Pune and  , and BRTS service plans. In the comprehensive mobility plan of PMC, 40% of all trips should be by public transport by the year 2021. Currently, 17% trips are by public transport.
 
 The agency will also have to study the best practices in public transport worldwide. Data analysis would help in assessing the strengths and drawbacks of PMPML in comparison with other public transport companies.
 
 According to the bid document, “without improvements in PMPML service, the use of personal vehicles will increase resulting in unmanageable congestion and diminishing quality of life for all residents.
 
 
