AURANGABAD: The   bench of Bombay high court has pulled up district collector and his subordinates for failing to act on the plea of a 76-year-old farmer whose road (shiv-rasta) leading to his farm has been encroached upon by some villagers.

 The division bench, comprising justices   and Mangesh S Patil, went on to state that “we are sorry to observe they (authorities concerned) have failed to perform their public and statutory duties”.
 
   , hailing from Bhogalwadi village of Aurangabad tehsil had earlier this year filed a writ petition pleading that the road to his and other farms in the village be cleared of encroachment.
 
 Lawyer  , who represented the farmer, said, “The farmer was making rounds of the collector office, land record office, forest department and the tehsildar office since May 2015.”
 
 Another lawyer Prashant Nagargoje said, “Perturbed by the harassment of making rounds of different offices for two years, the farmer filed a writ petition making the secretary of   and revenue department, Aurangabad collector, tehsildar and deputy superintendent of land record, as parties to the case.”
 
 The division bench in its order has stated that they have found that papers or files have been sent from one department to another or one official to another though each one of them is a functionary under the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966. The code has ample provisions and which also take care of the boundaries and measurements etc.
 
 The division bench in its order has observed, “We do not think that the Tehsildar, collector or deputy director of land records all of whom are before us are so helpless to assist the petitioner that he has to approach this court”.
 
 The bench went on to state that it is shameful that in this part of the state at least two of the respondents are senior level officials, with one being an Indian Administrative Service. “They (officials) are not so powerless or helpless to deal with the situation presented before us. If the collector of the district cannot direct action to be taken and it is left to the subordinates, then, he better demit his office. If the deputy superintendent of land records, Aurangabad or the deputy director of land records or any of the superiors including the collector cannot visit the site and cause a measurement to be done then we are sorry to observe they have failed to perform their public and statutory duties,” it said.
 
 While disposing off the petition, the division bench ruled, “We direct that irrespective of who is the encroacher, it might be the petitioner also, the encroachment must be removed and the road cleared. That should be cleared as indicated before us within three weeks from today. If we do not find any compliance of this direction, we will not hesitate to pass necessary orders and which would be very drastic. We ought to remind public officials that failure to perform duties or functions can also be termed as an offence. If it is punishable, we will not hesitate to launch criminal prosecution.”
 
 It added, “If it is departmental or disciplinary action, then, the lapse would be construed as misconduct on their part which would be investigated departmentally and for which we may direct that pending all the enquiries and to ensure that these officials go nowhere near the evidence and tamper with it. We will not hesitate to suspend them from service. In addition to all this, we will also direct initiation of contempt proceedings.” 
 
