HYDERABAD: The   plaguing   has come to  , who have been denied   for two months. While promoters of the regional carrier that suspended operations on February 28, assured staffers of clearing January payments by March 15, sources confirm, salaries were not debited. Predictably, the March 25 deadline set for payment of February salaries is unlikely to be met, they said.

 Rough estimates suggest salaries worth Rs 2.5 crore for January and Rs 3 crore for February , is currently outstanding. There has been no talk about March payments as yet.
 
 “It has a serious issue. We are still reporting to work, but not getting paid. Worse, there is no communication from promoters,“ said an employee handling a major station for Air Costa. The employee said: “Dissent is brewing. Also, because many of them are being compelled to face the wrath of passengers while dealing with their problems. How long can they continue living in uncertainty?“ Sources say , monthly remuneration of staffers in the firm range between Rs 20,000 and Rs 3.5-4 lakh per month.
 
 Launched in 2013, the regional airline is promoted by the LEPL Group that has a footprint across industries: construction & infrastructure, hospitality , renewable energy , health and education. LEPL group was founded by first generation entre preneur LP Bhaskar Rao.
 
 Before being grounded recently , the Air Costa fleet operated across eight sectors in India -Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Tirupati and Vijayawada.
 
 While, officially , the airline has cancelled all bookings till May 31, insiders say it could take longer for its aircraft to take off.
 
 “There is nothing being done to address the concern of staffers. Grievances are pouring in from all stations on how people haven't been able to pay rent or EMIs because of no pay . In fact, there are junior staffers who are forced to live off Maggie no odles due to the crisis,“ said another employee on condition of anonymity , fearing the carrier may eventually go the Kingfisher way .
 
 Official spokesperson of Air Costa admitted to a “breach of deadline“ in paying salaries, but maintained partial payments have been made to staffers up to a certain slab. “I have no other update (on the salary issue) as of now. I am hoping promoters will arrange for salaries soon,“ said Kavi Chaurasia, vice-president (marketing).
 
 “As per the contract, every employee quitting the company has to serve a three-month notice period.Going by that logic, if the company is headed towards closure, it too should compensate employees for the same period. Promoters must settle our dues, instead of harassing us,“ an aggreived staffer said.
 
 So far, Air Costa has been funded by its promoters, who during the launch, had indicated that they will be pumping in $100 million (around 600 crore). The airline, which took off in October 2013 as a regional airline, had in October 2016 received a licence from DGCA to start pan-India operations.
 
