INDORE:   near a remote village in   is often frequented by   trotting youngsters. The groups have grown in number after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation steps in November.

 The reason: this is the only place where mobile networks can be accessed by residents of around 12 villagers in  .
 
 Dearth of cash has forced the villagers to adopt online and mobile platforms for carrying out monetary transactions, but lack of connectivity has compounded their plight.
 
 “This is the only way I can transact now,” said an out-of-breath Suresh Gujrati as he trekked down the hillock, with his smartphone. At around 4pm, it was his third trip to the hillock.
 
 Gujrati, a grocer, had finalized a deal for fresh stocks for his shop in village Tappa. Soon after he made the call from his mobile phone, he made the payment to the supplier through a mobile wallet.
 
 The nearest ATM is in Hatpiplia, around 22 km from Tappa village, with a population of around 2,500. “It is not easy to travel to Hatpiplia every day and withdraw money (that too in small amounts) after standing for long hours in queue,” he said.
 
 Like Gujrati, residents of villages near the hillock undertake the three km-trek everyday – many multiple times – to connect with the world outside with their smartphones. Some even scale trees to ‘catch’ networks.
 
 “Many a times, people reaching the village for purchases move on to the hillock with the trader and transfer money digitally to close the deals,” said Nathu Singh, a resident of Hatpiplia and a frequent traveller to Tappa village.
 
 The village, surrounded by jungles and hills, is primarily inhabited by farmers, majority of whom have smartphones. Post demonetisation, they have downloaded applications on their phone to transact digitally. “Modiji is right in announcing demonetisation. But it would have been great if we had 
 mobile networks,” said farmer Prajapal Singh.
 
 The smartphones are reduced to portable media players when brought to the village, he said adding the villagers could be seen enjoying music on their smartphones, as nothing else will work.
 
 The Tappa village has a Seva Sagar Cooperative Society, which has been awaiting a net connection since long. “Plan was to connect all banking branches with internet to facilitate net banking by 2007. Today, 2016 has ended, but the computerization and internet plans could not be executed,” said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 Residents of around a dozen surrounding villages including Chakarpura, Bhanwarda, Jamania, Ghoosat and Bherupura face similar plight.
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate Purshottam Kumar told TOI that efforts were being made to ensure that digital mode of transactions are used by all. “We are trying to ensure digital connectivity in all areas. The villagers are also being trained on use of online means of transactions. Some areas are still left out, which will be covered soon,” he said.
 
