THRISSUR: Inaugurating the second phase of people’s   on Saturday, chief minister   called to ensure timely formulation and execution of projects with  .

 The chief minister termed the achievements made during the earlier phase of decentralised planning as remarkable and said that it gave the confidence to continue the same. He also stressed on the infirmities of the earlier phase and assured that efforts would be made to overcome them. 
 
 Vijayan also identified delays in plan formation and execution, paucity of people’s participation, insufficient progress in the development of productive sectors and inability to capture the imaginations of the youth as some of the weak points of the earlier phase.
 
 Analysing the twenty years since the plan campaign was launched, Vijayan said it had been observed that the annual plan formulation was completed only by August/September and much of the fund utilisation or execution takes place in the last quarter of the financial year, mostly in March.
 
 “The project formation must be completed before the beginning of the financial year, and only 30% of the funds must be kept unutilised for the last quarter. Only 15% of the funds must remain as balance to be utilised in March,” Vijayan warned.
 
 The chief minster made two assurances on the execution of the new phase, which has been christened as ‘People’s plan for New Kerala’. The state government would restructure the project execution timeframe so that it would adhere to the objectives of early plan formation and execution programme. Secondly, the rules and procedures of project formation and execution would be simplified so that local bodies would have greater autonomy and flexibility.
 
 The government also plans to revive the concept of district plan which would complement the plans of the local bodies, he said.
 
 Vijayan said prospects of social media and new technologies should be utilised to make the younger generation a part of the  .
 
 He added that expert panels would be formed to support the local bodies to assist in project formation and execution. He, however, clarified that these panels would only have advisory roles unlike earlier.
 
 Minister for local self-government department K T Jaleel who presided over the inaugural function said the government would launch website called ‘For The People’ as part of the initiatives to fight corruption. 
 
 Meanwhile, Congress councillors of Thrissur corporation took out a project march to the venue saying they were sidelined from the programmes. The protesters were blocked by the police.
 
 
