
Two Lok Sabha members -- Ashok Kumar representing Krishnagiri constituency and Sundaram representing Namakkal -- on Saturday extended support to caretaker   Chief Minister   by joining his camp. Earlier, sitting Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan had joined Panneerselvam's team.
 
 
 
 A team of police and revenue officials on Saturday morning began inquiries with around 120 AIADMK legislators staying at a luxurious resort at Koovathur near Mahabalipuiram. It is learnt that the officials were questioning them whether they have been confined at the resort or they have been staying there voluntarily. The officials also wanted the MLAs to furnish written declarations.
 
 
 
 Late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's childhood friends say if they were to pick between O Panneerselvam and V K Sasikala, they would choose OPS over VKS. Classmates and friends from Sacred Heart Church Park Convent say it's not just because of the treatment meted out to them by Sasikala, but because they believe "Jayalalithaa would have picked Panneerselvam because she had faith in him". "The current situation is sad," said Srimathi Iyengar, classmate and friend of   until she was suddenly refused entry to her friend's home in the 1980s.
 
 
 
 Considered a   loyalist, AIADMK lawmaker K Pandiarajan on Saturday confirmed his support to the O Panneerselvam faction in the AIADMK.
 Earlier, he had tweeted,"Will surely listen to the collective voice of my voters & decide in a way to uphold the dignity of Amma's memory & unity of AIADMK!" Pandiarajan, who is the state's School Education Minister, till recently was a critic of Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on social media. The lawmaker had argued that the chief minister appeared to be playing into the hands of the opposition DMK to split the party.
 
 
 
 On Saturday, Sasikala wrote a letter to Tamil Nadu Governor C Vidyasagar Rao. She asks for appointment to prove majority to form government. In her letter to Governor Vidyasagar Rao, Sasikala claimed, "I have absolute majority." Sasikala asked the Governor to "act immediately" and call her to form the new government in Tamil Nadu. She said that as a proof of majority support, "original letter and true copy of the resolution were also handed over" to the Governor.
 
 
 
 The Madras High Court on Friday sought the  's response to allegations that AIADMK MLAs were being illegally detained in a resort near Chennai and 20 of them were on a fast.
 
 
 
 AIADMK on Friday removed E Madusudhanan from his post as presidium chairman and from the party's primary membership for backing acting chief minister O Panneerselvam. Former minister and senior leader KA Sengottaiyan has been appointed the new presidium chairman.
 
 
 
 E Madhusudanan, in response, sent a petition to the Election Commission not to recognise VK Sasikala as general secretary of AIADMK, as she was not a party member for a period of five consecutive years.
 
 
 
 Top government and police officials on Friday met with Governor Vidyasagar Rao and apprised him of the present political situation in the state. The meeting lasted for about 45 minutes.
 
 
 
 A section of AIADMK MLAs owing allegiance to Sasikala dismissed media reports and allegations from the Panneerselvam camp that they were being "detained" at a resort near here, and asserted that they were "free".
 
