NOIDA: A day after the announcement of assembly polls and imposition of  , banners and posters of different political parties were quickly removed in   and Ghaziabad. 

 But the question being asked in political circles was what would be done about the more permanent associations with political parties. In Noida, 25 elephant statues, BSP’s symbol, adorn the Dalit Prerna Sthal. In 2012, the statues had been covered. This time around, there are the cycle tracks too made by the Akhilesh Yadav government. Some of the tracks have cycles painted on them, some have cycling signage. The cycle is Samajwadi Party’s symbol. 
 
 According to sources, unlike the 2012 assembly polls, when en masse covering of all statues and party symbols were ordered by   (EC), no such directions were received by the administration till Thursday for   and SP symbols dotting Noida, officials said.
 
  When asked, district magistrate N P Singh told TOI that they were “permanent structures and part of the infrastructure.”
 
 “However, if we receive a specific complaint about it, the matter will be brought to the notice of the EC. Once we receive specific directions from the EC, we will take appropriate action,” he added.
 
 In 2012, the district administration undertook a massive exercise before the assembly polls and covered all statues of elephants in the Dalit park. The directive was issued following complaints that the party would have an unfair advantage during the period when the model code of conduct is applicable. But in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, no such direction was given.
 
 On July 8 last year, the Delhi high court had requested the EC to issue guidelines to prevent political parties from using public places and public funds for propagating their symbols and suggested their derecognition if they failed to abide by these norms. The “request” came while disposing of an NGO’s plea seeking derecognition of BSP’s symbol for allegedly using public money, while in power, to set up statues of ‘elephants’ across the state.
 
 
