JAISALMER: The   (SOG) has started investigation in the matter of   Initially, the   team started with the   who are in   and those, whose remand is over. In the next 3-4 days, the team will speed up its work.

 Barmer-Jaisalmer MP Sonaram Choudhary had recently met chief minister Vasundhara Raje and demanded a CBI or SOG probe into the theft of crude oil. The state government then handed over the case to SOG.
 
 SOG additional DG Umesh Mishra said that in crude oil theft in Barmer, a five-member team, led by additional SP Ramdev Janvalia has reached Barmer. The team also includes four inspectors who were sent from Jaipur. He added that this theft is a very serious issue.
 
 He said initial inquiry has begun and the team is interrogating the culprits on remand. Documents are also being checked. In the coming days, the investigation will gain pace and information is being collected of people who are absconding.
 
 SOG IG Dinesh MN said Barmer police have done an excellent investigation and SOG will continue that investigation. People in police remand are being questioned and information received during remand is being verified.
 
 He said there could be possibility of involvement of many officers and at present it is all subject to investigation. Initially, it has been found that the network of this oil theft is spread in other states too.
 
 According to reliable sources in the last five years, crores of litres of crude oil have been stolen and this could be a big case. Although in the last 2-3 years, small cases of oil theft came in 2015 from Nagana, Sindhari and Rageshwari and if these cases had been investigated deeply then this case would have come to light that time itself. Why it was not investigated properly that time is something that needs to be highlighted. That time name of Mohangarh-based construction company had also come to light but as the case was not properly investigated, the matter got buried. 
 
 The owner of the company went underground and police are searching for him.
 
 
