KOLKATA: In December 2014, when Mahendra Singh   took the cricket world by surprise by quitting Test cricket and captaincy in the aftermath of the Melbourne Test, his declaration was hailed for its `art of leaving' (AOL). He again caught everyone unawares by scripting a sequel by quitting as India's limited-overs captain in January this year.

 Now comes AOL-III, signalling the end of the Captain Cool era. India's most successful cricket captain is no longer a skipper of any team. He “agreed to step aside“ from Rising Pune Supergiants captaincy within a year of taking on that role in the   franchise.
 
 Unlike AOL's first two episodes, the latest was prompted by a gentle nudge from the Rising Pune Supergiant management, which anointed Australian captain   as the new skipper.
 
 “Dhoni has not stepped down. We have appointed Steve   as skipper for the upcoming season. Frankly speaking, we did not have a good last season and wanted someone young to lead the side and revamp it ahead of Season 10,“ franchise owner Sanjiv Goenka was quoted as saying by a news agency . This means that Dhoni, 35, who led the now-suspended Chennai Super Kings from 2008 to 2015 and the Rising Pune Supergiant in 2016, will feature in IPL for the first time as a regular player -a role he is now accustomed to in Team India. Ihave the highest regard for   as a leader and a person. Dhoni will continue to be an important part of our team. He is supportive of the decision keeping the franchisee's best interests in mind,“ Goenka, a Kolkatabased business magnate, further said in a statement.
 
 The concluding episode in the AOL magnum opus will be added only after Dhoni takes a final bow -as a player -from the game he has enriched with his craft and character, on and off the field. As things stand, one may have to wait till after the 2019 ICC World Cup for AOL-IV , unless, of course, Dhoni comes up with yet another declaration to leave one and all stumped.
 
 Under Dhoni, the Rising Pune Supergiant had finished a poor seventh in the eight-team T20 league last season, and not insignificantly , the decision to replace Dhoni with Smith came on Sunday , the eve of IPL players' auction in Bengaluru.
 
 Dhoni, of course, is one of the most successful players in IPL history, having twice won the title (2010 and 2011) and finished runners-up on four occasions with the CSK. On an individual level, Dhoni has led in 143 matches in IPL, winning 83 -the most by any captain. He also led   to the Champions League triumph in 2010 and 2014.
 
 The 27-year-old Smith, who has sporadically led Pune Warriors and Rajasthan Royals -his previous two franchises -now faces a twin challenge.He will look to lead Australia to victory in upcoming fourTest series in India before trying to shake the Supergiants out of their slumber.
 
