NEW DELHI: Well-publicised campaigns including street plays should be organised to spread awareness on vector borne diseases dengue and chikungunya, the   said on Monday.

 Faulting the Centre and the three municipal corporations, the bench said they should wake up to the menace posed by the diseases.
 
 A bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Pratibha M Singh said despite the court periodically highlighting the problem, the authorities have failed to launch a massive awareness drive to educate public on how to prevent and treat the diseases. 
 
 The court also ticked off the Centre over its status report that it has taken steps to prevent such diseases across country. “We are concerned about the impact on the citizens of Delhi who have already witnessed cases of dengue and chikungunya despite the fact that the rainy season is yet to arrive,” the bench pointed out. “You have to move one step forward... You being the central government should have been the leader,” it said, adding that the authorities have not even done mapping of the areas where these diseases occurred last year.
 
 “At the ground level, they have not taken any preventive steps, including fumigation and issuing of advertisements to inform the public, to curb the spread of vector-borne diseases,” the court lamented.
 
 It said all agencies should at least launch a campaign through media to make people aware of the preventive measures and affects of the diseases. “We will be extremely pained if there is loss of life again this year,” the bench said and added that if all the authorities had been doing their job, “we would not have been talking like this”.
 
 The court said already 92 cases of chikungunya and 38 of dengue have surfaced, as per news reports, and that too, when humidity levels were yet to rise and the monsoon yet to arrive. It asked the corporations to file a status report containing not only the mapping, but also the preventive steps taken by them and listed the matter for hearing on May 25. 
 
 The bench is hearing two PILs seeking directions to the authorities to take steps to stop the outbreak of these and other diseases in the national capital. One has been filed by  , a lawyer and another by advocate Arpit Bhargava accusing the AAP government and civic bodies of not acting responsibly to control dengue and chikungunya outbreaks.
 
 
