CHENNAI: There were more than 17,000 fatal road accidents, or nearly 50 deaths a day, in Tamil Nadu in 2016, a 10% increase over 2015, the   has said. The   is yet to release statistics for 2016, but the committee last week wrote to the state government, asking it to introduce adequate safety measures.

 Tamil Nadu, with more then 14,000 km of national and state highways, accounted for 17,218 fatal accidents last year, 10% of the total national figure. In 2015, there were 15,636 fatal road accidents and 15,176 deaths in 2014, said a ministry of road transport and highways report.
 
 Justice  , the committee chairman who wrote to Tamil Nadu chief secretary Girija Vaidhyanathan, said letters were sent to all states. “We still have a long way to go as far as   is concerned. In many states, we still don't have statistics on causes of accidents. Tamil Nadu has to step up measures.They have to develop local solutions to the problems they face. We have asked them to Source: **SC Panel on road safety & SCRB submit quarterly reports of action taken,“ he said.
 
 Another concern is lack of standard data in reports.While the state crime records bureau and the ministry of surface transport listed 15,636 road accident deaths in TN in 2015, the   put it at 17,376. In 2015, state traffic planning cell analysis shows, 37% of fatal accidents were on national highways, 34% on state highways and 19% on major district roads. “We know 71% of road accidents in the state happen on 8% of roads. More than 70% of accident deaths happen outside the vehicle mostly pedestrians. We have to look at issues like road rage and design of roads,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 The state is yet to identify reasons such as talking or text ing on mobile phones. A bunch of FIRs, medical case sheets and legal papers point to road rage and negligent driving as the cause, but there is no trauma registry to analyse accidents. A team of health, transport and police officers is working on a state trauma policy for better en forcement, re-engineering road designs, predictingplanning for environment changes and streamlining emergency measures to bring down incidence of death.
 
 Health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said the department was working on a trauma care policy aimed at minimising deaths and reducing accidents by analysing causes.The state is also interacting with national and international experts to frame a policy and fix a deadline for itself to reduce the number of fatal accidents.
 
