MUMBAI: Local   chipped in with an initiative, the first in two decades, to decongest the road from the east-end of   railway  , which has made life easier for commuters. Removal of   and   that blocked the road, and action against unauthorized parking of vehicles have been a boon for public transport, and it will reduce travel time from Bandra (E) to Kurla. What used to take 45 minutes by bus, has been reduced to 15 minutes between the stretch on Anant Kanekar Marg, Bandra   station, to Bandra court, up to Western Express Highway.

 Deputy commissioner of police (zone VIII) Anil Kumbhare said after the clutter was cleared between Bandra railway station and Bandra Terminus, commuters, especially women, will feel safe after stepping out of the station late at night. “The drive began on July 3 after 83 police personnel, including 13 officers, were deployed at Anant Kanekar Marg and Bandra Terminus. Round-the-clock, 13 police personnel are on duty at the spots. Now, commuters will feel secure and safe after they step out of the station late in the evening or at night,” said Kumbhare.
 
 Decongestion of the road outside Bandra station in the east has been a boon for public transport buses, as ridership in red buses has gone up by 25-30%, according to an estimate, in the past few days. What took 45 minutes during peak hours now takes only 15 minutes, which has also helped the cash-strapped BEST generate more revenue. “No one dared clear illegal hawkers and shanties, and stop unauthorized parking for 15 years. The drive was successful with the help of   police, BEST, RTOs and the civic body,” said Kumbhare.
 
 Victor Nagaonkar of the BEST undertaking said, “It was a perennial problem plying buses to Bandra (E) due to heavy congestion. With the encroachments removed and road space cleared, we can run buses on schedule and deploy five to six extra buses during peak hours.” Sources said BEST plans to increase trips to close to 200 on three to four routes in Bandra (E). Each bus is expected to complete a scheduled run of 190km daily, the sources said. 
 
 Social activist Adil Khatri said, “Citizens from the area had come out on the streets to protest against encroachments. We also started a campaign against illegal autos and drivers who break rules and block traffic near Bandra (E) station. Citizens organised a Gandhigiri campaign, wherein we gave roses to drivers and requested them not to block traffic and give right of way to ambulances, fire brigade and school buses.” 
 
 Subhash Mhatre, who regularly travels from Bandra-Kurla Complex to the station at Bandra (E), said many bus passengers would prefer alighting near Bandra court and walk towards the station. “The station road used to be choc-a-bloc with autos, private vehicles and two-wheelers almost round-the-clock. Pedestrians would also find it difficult walking along the stretch, which is why a skywalk to the railway station was constructed some years back,” he said. 
 
 Earlier this year, former BEST general manager Jagdish Patil inspected the stretch and wrote to the civic authorities and police to get the encroachments removed. “We plan similar action outside Kurla station (East and West), Andheri (W) and Santacruz (E),” he had stated.
 
 The BEST GM had liaisoned with the traffic police chief, transport commissioner and civic chief on this issue. 
 
 Sources said there were complaints of unscrupulous drivers operating outside Bandra (E) station and some of them had even attacked a RTO official on duty a few years back.
 
 A local resident said, “During peak hours, there is complete chaos by autos and private buses on the stretch connecting WEH to Bandra station in the east. The problem is worsened by U-turns taken by vehicles.”
 
