MUMBAI:   West was one of the earliest planned suburbs of Mumbai, thanks to a visionary zamindar who approved the efforts of an architectural firm M/s Crown & Carter, which designed a gridiron plan that exists even today. The German town planner ensured roads were well laid out, cutting each other at right angles. It exists even in the present day Mulund station to  , where the T-ward office is situated. Unfortunately, the western half of Mulund received greater priority than the east, and grew rapidly over the years, resulting in a real estate boom and mushrooming of high-rises in the last two decades.

 The grid-like layout was surrounded by lush green hills and an arterial road (LBS Marg) which eventually became a landmark for several pharma and engineering companies. But with the post-90s real estate boom, the suburb lost its greenery to high-rises which have now encroached upon almost every vacant piece of land—not even sparing the forest cover. Most industries also shifted out by 2005, changing the landscape (and skyline) of Mulund to luxury apartment complexes along with two big malls. Property prices too skyrocketed—with builders hard-selling Mulund referring to it as the “prince of suburbs”.
 
 While there is a spurt in constructions in four electoral wards in Mulund West, locals feel this should not happen at the cost of open spaces and greenery. Said Father Ronald Devar of St Pius Church, “Where are the playgrounds? We need more parks/jogging tracks and builders should ensure they don’t usurp all the open spaces, whatever is left in Mulund. Citizens have already encroached upon hills and forests and we have lost the simple old world charm of this suburb.” He suggested corporators should create more gardens from their funds and adopt them for public use.
 
 Corporator Prakash Gangadhare said he has already adopted a couple of gardens, including the Aryabhatta Garden on JN Road. Fellow BJP corporator Manoj Kotak said he has created three gardens with “best out of waste”, and set up several traffic islands. “I agree Mulund needs better infrastructure in coming years as a Metro line will pass through this suburb and the new   will bring in more traffic from the western suburbs of Mumbai. We need planned development as population is likely to grow by 10% in the coming months,” he said.
 
 BJP apparently has an edge in these four electoral wards, which have a huge Gujarati population who traditionally vote for the party. Also, local MP   and Mulund MLA  , both from the BJP, say they will campaign hard to retain this bastion. Of the four BJP corporators elected here last time, one was disqualified in 2015 on a caste certificate issue. The seat is now held by NCP corporator Minakshi Patil. She is keen to contest again, promising development of open and green spaces.
 
 The good news in Mulund is that it has good quality (and adequate) water supply, frequency of BEST buses, several footpaths and a helpful police force though women’s security is still an issue.
 
 Viral Shah, a resident of JN Road, said, “We are fighting for open spaces and want more gardens and sports complexes. Also, there is denudation of forest cover as high-rises have sprung up close to the wild habitats.” 
 
 
