NEW DELHI: Ahead of the April 9   in the Capital, which is likely to be attended by some of the old guards including former   president  , the   (CoA) tightened the noose by listing nine Dos and Don'ts on Thursday.

 "The CoA requests that notice of any meeting of any committee/subcommittee or the general body of the BCCI shall be simultaneously given to the CEO along with the agenda and related documents that are circulated to persons members entitled to attend such meeting. All decisions taken during such meeting should be intimated by the chairman of the meeting to the CEO in writing on the same day. The CEO shall be entitled to be present in any such meeting," the Supreme Court committee told the members in a written communication on Thursday.
 
 While all state units were informed that they will need to seek the Supreme Court's directive on BCCI's representative at   meetings prior to taking any decision at the SGM, TOI also learnt that BCCI office-bearers are told not to involve any lawyers in the meeting and to also ensure that meeting isn't legally untenable by allowing those members who are ineligible as per the  's directives.
 
 
 
 
 1. The BCCI office bearers and CEO shall be bound to act in accordance with the directions of the CoA.
 
 2. The office bearers shall keep the CEO duly informed of all actions
 
 3. CoA may communicate its directions to all concerned through the CEO, the office bearers are welcome to communicate directly with CoA.
 
 4. The CEO alone shall continue to sign all pleadings, affidavits, applications, etc.
 
 5. All contracts tender documents having value of above Rs. 25 lakhs shall be put up by CEO before CoA's approval.
 
 6. All payments to be made on behalf of the BCCI shall be jointly approved by the acting Secretary and the CEO.
 
 7. The CEO shall complete all necessary paperwork and formalities with the banks for adding   and   as additional signatories for all bank accounts.
 
 8. CoA requested that notice of any meeting of any sub-committee or the general body of the BCCI shall be simultaneously given to the CEO along with the agenda and related documents that are circulated to persons members entitled to attend such meeting.
 
 9. All information, correspondence, communications and discussions involving the CoA shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed. 
 
