Tirupur: To meet the shortfall of water needed for textile dyeing and bleaching process, Dyers Association of Tirupur (DAT) has recommended the city corporation to allow the units to utilise 20 MLD of untreated sewage water being discharged into the Noyyal river.

 The association’s decision came after the   assumed that their share of 20 MLD water under Cauvery Third Water Scheme would not be given to them this year due to the drought. However, the plan has been kept on hold by the association as the third water scheme fetched them their share unexpectedly.
 
 With around 10 lakh population spreading in 60 wards, more than 60 MLD sewage is generated from households and commercial establishments in the corporation limits. Since underground water drainage system is available only in 18 wards, only seven out of 60 MLD is treated at sewage treatment plant (STP) in S Periyapalayam. The rest is discharged into Noyyal river and other water bodies without treatment.
 
 The 185-MLD capacity Cauvery third water scheme was earlier aimed at supplying water mostly for industrial purposes at a cost of around Rs 40 per 1000 litres. But due to the higher cost, the dyeing and bleaching units draw only about 20 MLD from the scheme. Meanwhile, the city corporation utilises 90 MLD at a concession cost of Rs 11 to Rs 24.5 per 1000 litres, said a higher corporation official.
 
 “With availability of effluent treatment plants, we are able to recycle 90-93% of water we use for the dyeing process. To manage the remaining 7-10% water needed for the next process, we utilise 20 MLD from the third water scheme, which is facilitated by New Tirupur Area Development Corporation Limited,” said S Nagarajan, president of DAT, which has 405 members.
 
 “But with the monsoon failure, we thought that we cannot avail of our water share and it will put us in trouble. So we formulated the plan to treat the sewage water and reuse it in our units,” he added.
 
 “The DAT had submitted the proposal and a meeting was also held with the dyers a few weeks ago. We are ready to allow them (as their idea will prevent the sewage from entering Noyyal),” said corporation commissioner M Ashokan.
 
 Nagarajan said, “Our common ETPs are capable of handling effluents, so treating sewage water will be a low-cost affair. We have planned to tap two out of eight major openings which drain sewage into the river. Sumps will be established at two places — near Valamathi overbridge on Kumaran road and Sangili Pallam. From there the sewage will be transported in tanker lorries to the CETPs. As this year we have received the water from the third water scheme, we have put the plan on hold for now. But for future the Rs 20-lakh worth project will be implemented.” 
 
 
