GURUGRAM: Union minister of state   and Haryana chief secretary   on Wednesday took stock of the measures being taken to prevent a rerun of the Gurujam, the 20-hour-long snarl that had brought the city to a grinding halt in July last year.

 Inderjit, the Gurgaon MP, had summoned Gurgaon deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh, MCG commissioner V Umashankar and Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav to Delhi on Wednesday morning to discuss various aspects to deal with the problem of flooding during monsoon.
 
 On the other hand, Dhesi held a video-conference with Gurgaon divisional commissioner D Suresh and other officials in the evening to review the arrangements being made to deal with waterlogging as well as snarls near Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Gurgaon MP Rao asked the officials to ensure that rainwater did not go down the Badshapur drain, which was apparently the main reason behind the last year’s massive waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk and Gurujam, during the monsoon this year. He directed them to revive ponds and other water bodies lying in a state of despair across the district. He also stressed on the need to link Badshapur drain with nearby ponds to avoid flooding along the canal.
 
 In this regard, the state government is working on a project to increase the water-carrying capacity of 39.96km-long Badshapur canal. The objective is aimed at increasing the capacity of the drain from 500 cusec to 1500 cusec.
 
 In the evening, chief secretary Dhesi directed divisional commissioner Suresh to hold a meeting with all department heads every 10 days in order to ensure that all precautionary measures were in place ahead of the monsoon.
 
 Suresh informed Dhesi that a detailed project report (DPR) for a Rs 174.48-crore project to solve the perennial waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk had already been sent to the state government for approval. 
 
 On his part, MCG commissioner Umashankar said that his department had plans to install eight micro sewage treatment plants (STPs) at a cost of around Rs 20 crore in villages along Badshapur drain. “We have already started the tender process. These STPs will become functional within 18 months,” he added.
 
 
