KOCHI/THRISSUR:   – probing a case against those who revealed the identity of the survivor in the rape case – interrogated actor   for nearly 90 minutes. The police seized his phone and memory card, which would be examined by a forensic team.

 Sources said that Varghese admitted that he had ‘inadvertently’ disclosed the identity of the survivor in a Facebook post which he later rectified. An FIR was lodged against the actor under sections 228-A (disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences) of IPC after one Gireesh Babu took up the issue. Speaking to the media, Varghese later said that he was summoned in connection with his Facebook post.
 
 Meanwhile, actor Dileep was taken to Thrissur for  . Police took him to hotels Joy’s Palace, Garuda and Kinattingal Tennis and Sports Academy – the places where he is supposed to have met Pulsar Suni, the key accused.
 
 He was brought to Joy’s Palace around 11am. Dileep was taken inside the hotel compound and the team spent around 20 minutes at the venue. The scene was no different from Ernakulam as people booed and jeered the actor as soon as the police vehicles arrived. There were also some supporters who kept on calling ‘Dileepetta’.
 
 The next stop was Garuda Hotel’s suite rooms 801 and 802, where he stayed during the shooting and CD release of the film Georgettan’s Pooram.
 
 The hotel’s general manager Ramanunni C Nair said Angamaly CI Mohammed Riaz came to the hotel two days ago and collected evidence. Though police tried to collect evidence from CCTV recordings, it did not help much as the incident had happened months ago and new visuals were overwritten in the storage space after a few days.
 
 The police asked the hotel to keep a backup of the recordings of CCTVs in the reception area. Though police questioned some staff, they did not remember meeting Suni at the hotel. Dileep had stayed here from September 10-19, 2016 and October 11. He returned with Nadirsha on March 5 stayed there a night for the CD release of Georgettan’s Pooram.
 
 At 11.55am, he was brought to the tennis club where AIYF members waved black flags and shouted slogans against the actor. Police were ready in riot gear, sensing a chance for violent scuffles. Police took him to the tennis court where he is supposed to have spoken with Suni and the basketball court where a staff took a selfie with him. This later became evidence as Suni was also captured in the background. Dileep seemed tired and did not respond to questions from the media. He talked to Amjad Zaheer, who was the producer of his movie War and Love and the treasurer of the club. He told Zaheer that he was innocent and expressed hope that he would come clean. He was taken back to Aluva by 1pm.
 
