BENGALURU: About 87% of international flyers have satisfactory levels of experience with the customs department at the   (KIA), Bengaluru, a survey has found.

 However, the International Passenger Satisfaction Survey, undertaken by the principal commissioner of customs and aircargo complex and conducted by AIMS Institute of  , Bengaluru, found that only 47% were accessing the   website. According to the survey, which was released on Thursday , lack of information had a direct impact on satisfaction levels of international passengers and nearly 55% were either partially or totally unaware of the customs rules and regulations.The survey sampled 1,184 passengers over a fortnight between September 12 and 26, 2016. About 45% of those surveyed were foreign nationals, 45% returning and resident Indians, and 10% NRIs.
 
 A majority -69 % -of international passengers, who accessed the website, said information was updated and adequate. But 13% had a different opinion. Nearly half of the respondents consult their friends and family, 26% social media and 8% the Embasssy of their home country .
 
 A whopping 78% of the respondents said customs officials be haved well and 19% said they were helpful, but 3% found them unfriendly. While 88% said they did not face any difficulty in customs clearance, 12 % faced harassment in getting clearance at the checkpoint.
 
 The study stressed the need to make information available, speed up the process, ensure transparency of duty assessment process, particularly with electronic items, TV and jewellery . About 86% of flyers welcomed the move of withdrawing the baggage declaration form.
 
 A vital recommendation was made to optimize the website and use social media platforms for information channelling and attending grievances etc.
 
 KIA to be partially shut from Feb 19 to April 30
 
 KIA will remain partially closed from February 19 to April 30 due to ( upgradation work on the runway.
 
 This will involve closure of the runway between 10.30am and 5pm, and partial closure of facilities, none of which will, however, impact the airport's operations. The upgradation work has been initiated to support the growing air traffic.
 
 Two more   (RET) will be constructed to increase runway capacity. At present, the runway can handle 38 air traffic movements (ATM) per hour and the additional RETs could increase the capacity to 48 per hour.
 
