MUMBAI:   stock tanked 6% on Friday after the lender revealed a divergence of Rs 4,177 crore between the value of loans it had recognised as   (NPAs) for the fiscal 2016 and what the   (RBI) later identified as default. In percentage terms, the divergence is substantial: As against the 0.76% NPA reported by Yes Bank in FY16, the   audit pegged it at 5% of loans.

 Broking house reports pointed out that along with Yes Bank, there was substantial divergence in NPAs reported by   and ICICI Bank, too. “As per the RBI, at Axis Bank, NPAs were higher at 4.5% of loans (against 1.78% reported) and at   they were at 7% (5.85%). Detailed disclosures of NPAs will be available in their annual reports,” a report by   noted. These large divergences in NPAs were revealed in the RBI’s audit of these banks.
 
 In Friday’s relatively weak market, the Axis Bank stock lost 2.8% at Rs 503 while ICICI Bank was down 1.2% at Rs 297. Stock market players said that since ICICI Bank and Axis Bank had disclosed these divergences in their analyst meets, the slide in their stock prices were not as severe as for Yes Bank.
 
 Explaining the divergence, Yes Bank said the outstanding gross NPA as of March 2017 includes one borrower with an exposure of just under Rs 912 crore, which is expected to be recovered in the near term and there is no carry forward impact of the divergences that it has published. The bank has already made provisions of Rs 228 crore in respect of this account. 
 
 “After duly taking into account provision impact of the divergences, the bank’s credit cost was 53 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) for FY17 and 19 bps for Q4F417,” it said. Credit cost refers to the percentage reduction in the bank’s margins on account of defaults.
 
 The RBI’s new norms require that banks publish in their balance sheet differences, if any, between the bank’s bad loan numbers and the value of loans that RBI feels are in default. While banks usually end up providing for loans subsequently identified by the RBI, the divergence is a pointer to whether the bank’s provisions are in line with the RBI’s thinking. 
 
 Banking analysts say investors will now await for the RBI’s audit results for banks to have a clear idea about the divergences between what the central bank reports and what the banks have declared. “Narrowing of these divergences will be key for contraction in their valuation gap to the private consumer banks,” the Credit Suisse report said.
 
 A report by  , also on Yes Bank’s NPA disclosure, said investors will closely track this data at all banks, and “would also be concerned about potential divergence in F17 results as well (will be disclosed a year later)”.
 
 
