NEW DELHI: PM   defended 
  on Tuesday and took a sharp dig at  , saying the 
  finally arrived when tremors shook north India on Monday night.

 Replying to the debate on the President's address in the  , Modi reminded   of Rahul's claim last November that he would make sensational revelations on   that would cause an earthquake.
 
 “But finally the earthquake did come. I was wondering why the quake came when it did. The threat was given a long time ago. There must be some reason that mother earth was so angry ,“ the PM said.
 
 Modi also cited Rahul's response to his jibe that 
  . Rahul had said it stood for 
  , courage, ability and modesty .
 
  “How can someone see sewa or a virtue in a scam?“ the PM asked. Rahul had claimed that he has evidence of the PM's “personal corruption“ -a reference to diaries and loose papers alleging payoffs to politicians recovered from two corporate offices. The SC has since rejected a plea to treat the papers as evidence and said there was no case for a court-monitored investigation.
 
 Apart from political attacks that brought the fierce electoral contest in UP to the Lok Sabha, the PM used his speech to offer comparisons with UPA, arguing that his government had implemented Congress's pet schemes more effectively . He said the savings accrued by reducing leakages and corruption through the use of the Aadhaar biometric identity system had resulted in thousands of crores being transferred to the poor and needy .
 
 He sought to link demonetisation with the unease of the “rich“, and said, “I know a lot of big people are feeling uncomfortable... More such measures are going to follow.“ He also brought up the surgical strike on terror launch pads in POK and said, “The surgical strike was such a big success and I know it is troubling you (the opposition) but your problem is that you cannot say so in public.“
 
 Modi countered criticism that demonetisation had slowed a growing economy, saying only a strong economy could have taken the shock of the policy designed to weed out black money .
 
 The strident defence of demonetisation is significant in the backdrop of Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul making the note ban a key campaign point against BJP in the UP campaign.
 
 The government also defended demonetisation in the Rajya Sabha, where HRD minister Prakash Javadekar termed it a move to cleanse India of black money while the opposition accused the Centre of ignoring the woes of the poor and farmers. Javadekar said the party “which made people stand in queues for over 50 years for even basic things...was now crying hoarse over demonetisation“.
 
