MUMBAI:  , a former director of Kumar Builders, appeared before the   on Tuesday as summoned and undertook to repay Rs 68 lakh to two flat buyers. The buyers,   and his wife, had booked a large flat in a proposed 32-storey building. The building, yet to even get civic clearances, is a free-sale component of a redevelopment project in Lokhandwala, Andheri. Pranay Jain, another former director, though also summoned was abroad and did not appear. Jain spoke softly as Justice   asked him why this was happening. He offered to refund the amount to the buyer with interest. His counsel Karl Tamboly said contrary to the Rauts' plea, there is a registered redevelopment agreement with   in Andheri with Kumar Builders. The buyers, through their lawyer Tushar Gujjar, had moved the HC for relief.

 Justice Kathawalla in his order on Tuesday said, “Though he may have stepped down as director of Kumar Builder Mumbai Realty Pvt Ltd, he is in charge of the company and has taken responsibility of all Kumar Builders group companies. He undertakes to pay the principal amount of Rs 68 lakh to the Rauts by April 30.“ Asked when he would pay the interest component, Jain said within a month thereafter. The court directed him to pay an interest of 12% by May 30. The court also recorded that he undertook not to create any third party rights over the 25th floor flat the Rauts had booked.
 
 The Rauts, who live in Borivli, had booked a flat with a carpet area of over 1,000 sq ft in 2013. The price at the time was Rs 3.3 crore and they paid Rs 68 lakh. “This is the second such project of Kumar Builders which is stuck,“ Gujjar said.
 
 Justice Kathawalla too, while summoning the Jains, observed on March 31, “This is one more case where it is alleged that directors of the Kumar group of companies have cheated buyers.“ In a separate case filed against Kumar Urban Development Pvt Ltd, the court observed last October, “It is clear innocent employees of the company are being used by people like Lalit Jain who are managing the company but resigned as directors to avoid legal consequences for lapses on their part and appointed employees as directors."
 
