HYDERABAD: Many youths in their tearing hurry to develop a muscular and slim body look for short-cuts like taking supplements before or after hitting the gym. In addition to this, irregular an life style and pushing oneself beyond one's ability while working out enhances risk factors among fitness freaks.

 The death of Varun Kumar, a 22-year-old   employee, on Wednesday afternoon while he was pumping muscle in the company gym after he suffered a cardiac arrest, highlights how few precautions are taken before intense workouts, said the   police.
 
 Many fitness experts with long experience in the field feel that a burning desire to achieve a perfect body shape in a short period is proving counterproductive leaving youths with injuries and health problems.
 
 A person who joins a gym, should give himself time to first understand his body. “Many youngsters without understanding their ability, try to push themselves beyond their capacity, in their hurry to either gain muscle or become slim. But very few realise that this will boomerang,'' Pradeep Roy, the owner cum trainer of Roy's Dumbell & Dream Gym in   told TOI.
 
 Many people take weight loss supplements or pre-workout supplements which celebrity trainer Dinesh and others strongly recommend `not' to use as it will affect the internal organs.
 
 “Some people feel a psychological need to hit the gym at any cost despite not having enough sleep or after a late night partying. I strongly recommend everyone not to go to the gym after an inadequate sleep. Do not think of going to gym as your body is not prepared for a workout. It can lead to serious complications. Skipping the gym one day will not affect your body in anyway,'' Dinesh, who trains many top Tollywood personalities told TOI.
 
 Former India team body building coach,  , said that people without proper guidance end up doing unscientific exercises. “One should never workout on empty stomach. I see many people in their eagerness to become body builders, work for long hours. Working for long hours will be in no way of any help in build muscles,'' Mohtesham said.
 
