HYDERABAD: Over 15 lakh transport vehicles in   including Greater Hyderabad,  , Karnataka, Pondicherry,   are set to go off the roads indefinitely from 6 am on March 30, thus bringing to a halt transportation of commodities like rice, wheat, sugar, pulses, steel, sand, cement and all items except essential commodities. The   (SIMTA) has decided to exempt essential commodities such as water, milk, , petrol from the strike.

 However, a decision on stopping the transportation of essential commodities in a phased manner would be taken depending upon government response to the strike. “If our president and office-bearers are arrested during the strike, we may first stop transportation of LPG gas followed by other essential commodities,“ SIMTA secretary G Durga Prasad told TOI. In a first step towards pacifying the transporters, Telangana transport minister P Mahender Reddy held a meeting on Monday with Telangana lorry owners association and SIMTA members. The minister ordered an enquiry into the allegations of excessive toll tax being collected on state highways from lorry drivers.
 
 “Lorry owners association leaders have alleged that `3,200 was collected towards toll tax to and fro from a single lorry on Godavarikhani-Hyderabad route (state highway) on which three toll plazas are located,“ TS joint transport commissioner C Ramesh said.
 
 There are allegations that higher rate of toll taxes are also being collected on Nakrekal-Addanki road where single toll plaza is collected.
 
 “I don't think so much toll tax is being collected on the state highways. We are looking into the matter,“ said engineer in chief, roads and buildings (state roads) Ravinder Rao said. However, SIMTA leader Durga Prasad said the toll plazas are misusing the enhancement clause in the agreement with the government that they can increase toll tax every year by 5 per cent if the lorry population does not increase. “There is nearly 20 per cent increase in all in population of lorries in the last two to three years and yet the toll tax rate is being hiked,“ he alleged
 
