MANALI/DHARAMSHALA: Nightlong rains in the region and   in Manali and adjoining areas brought respite to the people from hot weather conditions as temperature plummeted considerably on Wednesday morning. While tourists in Manali were thrilled to see the tourist town don a white mantle, many in other parts of the state experienced complete blackout as strong winds lashing the region disrupted   and  .  , too, remained disrupted in some parts till the forenoon.

 However, the showers have left farmers worried as even a drizzle at this time of the season is considered harmful for the standing wheat crop which is ready for harvest. Kangra is one of the largest producers of wheat in the hill state. “If the weather continues to act like this, it will destroy our yield completely,” rued a local farmer.
 
 Various villages in Palampur region were also hit as blocked roads disrupted morning supply of vegetables, milk and other products. “It started raining around 11.30 on Tuesday night and it continued to fall till the morning. Strong winds accompanying the rain snapped branches and even uprooted trees, which blocked the roads leading to our village. All this adversely affected suply of routine supplies to the village,” said Pawan Panchi, a resident of Mumta village near here.
 
 As snowfall started in the morning time, tourists in Manali made a beeline to upper Kothi and Fatru. The region experienced mild snowfall. Parts of Spiti and Lahaul also received fresh snowfall. Koksar received 15cm of snow cover, Marhi 10cm, Keylong 8cm and Tingret 30cm. Rohtang, which is already buried under over 20ft of snow, has also received nearly 30cm more snow.
 
 Currently, tourists are allowed to visit upper Kothi, where they can see enough snow. However, some tourists are also reaching Gulaba despite being told to stay away. Gulaba has 60 to 90cm snow cover, is prone to avalanches and has no parking facility.
 
 Manali deputy superintendent of police Puneet Raghu said tourists will be allowed to go to Gulaba only after a green signal from the Border Roads Organization. “We should have adequate parking facility. The administration will then decide if it is safe to allow tourist to go beyond Kothi,” he said.
 
 The mercury has jumped above 40 degrees Celsius at many places. But, the temperature is still below freezing point at many places in Himachal. Meteorological department has predicted more snowfall on high hills in next 48 hours.
 
 Lightning strike kills 2, injures 8 
 
 Shimla: Two persons were killed and eight injured, including two police personnel, in a lightning strike at Rampur subdivision’s Kharahan village, around 130 km from Shimla, in the wee hours of Wednesday. Police has started the inquest proceedings.
 
 Nand Lal (65) and Tara Chand (32), both residents of Kharahan village, died on their way to the hospital. Agency reports said Station House Officer Sanjeev Kumar and Assistant Sub-Inspector Hoshiar Singh were injured in the incident. Three seriously injured persons were referred by doctors at local hospital to the IGMC Hospital, Shimla. The rest are receiving treatment at the Khaneri Civil Hospital, police said.
 
