Puducherry: A battle-royal has broken out between the outgoing director of Alliance française de Pondichéry (AF) and a section of the body’s Indian members and the president. Simmering discontent over the way of functioning has turned into a full-fledged turf-war and exchange of allegations with the AF on Wednesday announcing that a majority of the organisation’s elected executive committee had resigned en masse. 

 A statement issued on Wednesday afternoon announced: “On 18th and 19th July 2017, eight out of ten members of the Executive Committee of Alliance française de Pondichéry did tender their resignation. They are MM. Kichenamourty, Nayagar, Pannirselvame, Anandavadivelou, Narayanane, Namassivayane, Govindaradjelou, and Siva. Two members remain, Lalit Verma and Desjardins. An extraordinary general assembly should soon be organized to elect a new governing body.”
 
 When contacted over phone, Alliance française de Pondichéry director Olivier Litvine said: “There is bad atmosphere in AF Pondichery and one cannot work in this atmosphere. I have been transferred to Delhi from September 1. AF is undergoing crisis. There is too much violence in the president’s attitude towards them (committee members) and me. Right now everybody is waiting for legal advice. We have informed the members because they elect the committee. I don’t know who is in charge because there is no executive committee (after the resignations) and so no president either. There is also no quorum and so no decision can be taken (by the committee).”
 
 For his part, AF Pondichery president Lalit Verma said: “Few members have resigned but their resignation can be accepted only by the president. Some have been accepted, not others. I am surprised that the director has gone public on this matter without the knowledge of the president.” He went on to add that “the atmosphere created at AF Pondichery by the departing director is because of his being prematuredly transferred. As early as 2016 each and every member of AF committee signed several times seeking Mr Litvine’s immediate recall and replacement.”
 
 On the legal position of the committee, he said, “The president and vice president are still in charge because most of the resignations have not been accepted. These office bearers may return when Litvine departs and then the process of filling up the vacancies will begin as per the rules,” he explained.
 
 The turf war between the director and a section of the executive committee has been going on for a while with mail trail from members alleging mistreatment and even racism. A recent mail signed by several members, a copy of which is with TOI, said: “There is a lot of trouble at AF Pondichery on account of the behaviour of Mr Olivier Litvine, the present director. We have nothing to complain about his intellectual ability but his conduct with everyone smacks of racism, colour discrimination and disdain.”
 
 As for the extraordinary meeting, Litvine said: “The meeting should happen around August 8. The French consul general as the honorary president of AF Pondichery is probably the person (to call it) but I don’t know.”
 
 
