DEHRADUN: The past year saw   on its toes as it battled one of the worst   to occur in the state. The dengue epidemic from July to November saw over 2,000 people in the state falling ill with the viral disease while Dehradun with 1,400 cases remained the worst-affected district.
 
  The department also drew flak as shoddy healthcare in the hills came to the fore. In September, a 25-year-old pregnant woman in labour died after no doctor was available at the nearest medical facility in Tiuni and the driver of an 108 ambulance emergency services could not take her to Dehradun as there was “insufficient fuel” in the vehicle. In another incident in the same month, a 23-year-old woman from Pithoragarh died soon after giving birth for want of timely medical attention.
  
  Health experts and local residents, however, lauded the health department for rolling out certain initiatives. The second phase of the   was started and added 5.93 lakh beneficiaries to its existing 8.17 lakh beneficiaries.
  
  Talking to TOI, Dr HGS Manral, ex-health advisor, health department, said, “The state government has taken some initiatives as far as healthcare is concerned but it will take some months for the results to show.”
  
  The department’s move to scrap running of some   under Public Private Partnership mode was appreciated by the locals who had complained that the private firms were not providing proper health facilities.
  
  The health minister said that the department was waiting for release of funds of Rs 800 crore from the Centre which has been provided by the   to recruit more doctors and improve health facilities.
  
  The health department also took some strict calls this year when it recently published notices in leading dailies about those who were shifted to the hills months ago but did not join duty.
  
  Uttarakhand faces an acute shortage of medical staff and has just 800 doctors against the sanctioned 2,400 posts. Authorities have long struggled to move doctors from four plain districts to nine in the hills. Of the 13 districts in the hill state, Chamoli has a whopping 75% posts of doctors lying vacant while Dehradun, a plain district, has 64% positions occupied. Doctors have filed court cases against their “illegal” transfers - a dozen of such cases still pending in various courts.
