HYDERABAD: The proposed English medium minorities residential schools in Hyderabad lack playgrounds for students. Reason: There is hardly any lung space available in buildings earmarked for the proposed schools.

 The Telangana government has sanctioned 31 additional English medium minorities residential schools in 15 Assembly constituencies in Hyderabad district to function from the next academic year (2017-18), which begins from June 12. For this, the government has asked the   authorities to identify private buildings on rental basis. Based on the government's instructions, the department authorities allotted the responsibility to the mandal educational officers (MEOs) to identify properties having space between 20,000 square feet and 60,000 sq ft.
 
 “Till now, we have identified 20 buildings (all individual properties) except in Secunderabad and   constituencies to set up the schools for boys and girls. However, the major problem is no building has playground due to non-availability of lung space. After identifying the buildings, we have taken consent from property owners to modify their premises as per our requirement like walls to be designed for blackboards, staff rooms, classrooms and washrooms (for students). We will sign an agreement with the property owners for up to three years and then extend the lease every two years,“ district minority welfare officer ( ), Hyderabad, B Manya told TOI.
 
 After the identification of all buildings, we will ask the roads and buildings (R&B) department to submit estimates to take up certain modifications. The limit of the expenditure will start from `20,000 and up to `50,000 on each building. In fact, we have identified these buildings keeping in mind the security and safety of the students.However, we would appoint outsourcing security people in all 31schools to ensure proper safety of the students,“ he said.
 
 Regarding rentals, the DMWO said a committee, with the district collector (DC) as chairman, has been set up to fix the rent. The other members are representatives from the DMWO, R&B and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation(GHMC).The rentals will be fixed based on the GO issued in 2012.
 
 It would also depend on the area where the school is situated. The rental will be between `10 per feet and `Rs 50 sq feet (If the property located is in   or  ), he said.
 
