PATNA: Denied an ambulance and unable to afford a private one, a man had to carry the body of his five-year-old son on his shoulder at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) on Wednesday.

 Asmit Kumar was admitted to the regional cancer centre (RCC) of IGIMS for the past four days. “He was under treatment of the hospital doctors for the past 4-5 months. He had been admitted to the hospital for further treatment. My son died in the morning,” wailed Sunil Kumar, father of the deceased.
 
 Sunil, a truck driver, was asked by a nurse on duty to remove the body from the RCC after his son died. When Sunil asked her for an ambulance, he was told to meet additional medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar, who told him to get lost as people die there every day. “He rudely shooed me away from his office. As the RCC nurse was pressurising me to remove the body, I had no option but to carry him on my shoulder,” said Sunil. 
 
 Asmit’s cancer was detected in November last year. A resident of Begusarai, Sunil blamed the hospital administration as well nurses. “Doctors came and wrote prescriptions, but the nurses always harassed him when it came to writing medicine slips for the medical store,” Sunil alleged. 
 
 “During the night duty, if you disturb the nurses’ sleep, they will bite your head off. If you complain to the doctor on round, the nurses would create complications in the treatment. After all, they administer the injection or give the medicine on time,” he said.
 
 Dr Dinesh Kumar Sinha, under whom Asmit was undergoing treatment, said he was suffering from lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma which behaves like acute leukaemia. “The treatment takes 2-3 years. Asmit had been on remission induction for the past few months. Recently, we had started administering intensive therapy or consolidation on him. He had been making progress,” he said.
 
 IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas said he has taken the matter in all seriousness. “The additional medical superintendent has been removed from his post. The concerned nurse on duty has been suspended. A strict warning will be issued to all the nurses that they should not discharge the patient until an ambulance is made available to him or her,” he said. 
 
 Sunil and his wife had no money and were helped by the attendants of other patients in the hospital to travel back to Begusarai. As per IGIMS official site, 24 ambulances are available to pick up patients from their places (on payment of nominal charges) and also for discharged patients in the hospital.
 
 
