Surat: It has become challenging for NGOs working for HIV-AIDS prevention among sex workers with changing methods of operating flesh trade. With use of smartphones it has become difficult to meet and educate sex workers about the various precautions and preventive methods. 

 Facing tough conditions, NGOs and group of sex workers are trying to reach the target group by creating nationwide network. The issues were discussed at a meeting held in the city where 64 representatives of sex worker groups from different parts of country participated. 
 
 In two-day seminar that ended on Tuesday, benefits to bring the community based organisations (CBOs) across India together to deal with issues in changing time were discussed. Here sex workers and their representatives from parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi participated. 
 
 “Across India, currently, around 10 lakh sex workers are active and their ways to do trade is changing. Earlier they used to operate from one area and it was easy to identify, approach and educate them. But since last few years they started operating on mobile phone,” said Kallana Gowda, a capacity building officer with Swasti, an NGO working for HIV AIDS awareness in Karnataka. 
 
 “In most places the trade is being operated through mobile applications hence it is important that all the sex workers in country can be reached through some medium to provide them information. Hence, a nationwide network is being developed by uniting them with each other to reach them in changing time,” added Gowda. 
 
 “If the sex workers are united they can get information through modern medium of communication further it will help the authorities to ensure prevention of HIV-AIDS,” said Kusum of All India Network of Sex Workers, Delhi. 
 
 “Number of sex workers from different states are participating in the seminar to join hands for better health services and social security. It is a good initiative to bring them under one roof,” said Pankaj Chaudhary of Sahyog, representative of a city-based NGO.
 
 
