Over 42,000   haven’t been paid their   this month, as the   and transport undertaking faces an unprecedented cash crunch because of rapidly slipping revenues and sustained losses.

 BEST employees are paid their salaries on the 10th of every month. However, till Tuesday, the money had not been credited to their accounts and there was no word from the management on how much longer it was going to take.
 
 BEST has 36,000 employees working in its transport arm, including the administration staff, and the rest with its electricity supply business. Its monthly salary outgo is around Rs 100 crore and the management on Tuesday had begun talking to Canara Bank to raise money to pay its employees.
 
 The undertaking’s public relations officer Hanumant Gophane, however, allayed fears of disruption in supply to the city, revealing that part payment of the pending bills has been made to Tata Power, from whom BEST sources power for the island city.
 
 BEST’s transport division incurs a loss of Rs 2 crore every day and the accumulated losses up to financial year 16-17 have ballooned to Rs 2200 crore. This despite BEST collecting nearly Rs 3200 crore through a surcharge from its electricity consumers to cover the losses suffered by the transport arm. Over the years, the undertaking’s debt has risen to Rs 2,000 crore, putting its bottom line under tremendous pressure.
 
 In a desperate measure, BEST employees on March 10 brought the delay in disbursement of salaries to the notice of Chief Minister  . The letter says that the delay has made it difficult for BEST employees to pay their children’s school fee or service housing and personal loans, inviting penalties.
 
 BEST committee member Ravi Raja said BEST has been driven to the precipice because of years of mismanagement by successive regimes. “There are other factors too. The city’s slow moving traffic forced commuters to switch to trains. The Metro has further eaten into BEST’s business,” he said. Raja also said that BEST by repeatedly increasing its fares has made shared autos and taxis an attractive option for commuters.
 
 Established in 1947 with a fleet of 242 bues, BEST made its first loss in 2004. At that point, it ran 3600 buses and carried over 40 lakh passengers a day. Today, while the number of buses has increased to 3800, passenger numbers have dwindled to 30 lakh a day.
 
 Raja said the salary revision of BEST employees in 2011, when average salaries went up by over 25 per cent, hit the undertaking’s financials hard. Today, BEST’s establishment cost is 80 per cent of its total expenditure.
 
