Jaipur: Power struggle between two Dalit leaders within the state   came out in the open in an ugly manner on Thursday. Supporters of former minister Babu Lal Nagar surrounded and hooted Congress’s senior vice-president Bhanwar Lal Meghwal, who too is a former minister, in full public view.

 The agitators, who were shouting slogans in favour of Nagar, got so aggressive that Meghwal had to seek shelter in a shop close to the party headquarters. Police had to intervene and help Meghwal walk to the party office safely, as the agitated people from the Dudu assembly constituency followed him and continued to shout slogans.
 
 Nagar, the ex-MLA from Dudu, though denied his involvement in the incident. “I have nothing to do with whatever happened at the PCC today (Thursday). Someone told me that around 2000 people from my constituency had gone to submit a memorandum to the PCC chief,” Nagar told TOI. “All I know is that these men shouted slogans hailing Congress president Sonia Gandhi, party vice-president Rahul Gandhi and PCC chief Sachin Pilot,” Nagar added.
 
 The memorandum submitted to Pilot was to demand removal of Meghwal as in-charge of District Congress Committee Jaipur Rural under which the Dudu assembly area falls. It was alleged that Meghwal was blocking Nagar’s reentry into the party even after the court cleared him of rape charges in February this year. “Meghwal is doing all this to help his daughter Banarasi Devi claim Congress ticket from Dudu in 2018 assembly elections,” claimed the memorandum signed by Congress’ Phagi block president Raghuraj Singh Rajawat and others.
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Meghwal told TOI, “My daughter sought party ticket from Dudu in 1998, 2003 and 2008 also when I was not the in-charge here. She is highly educated and has held high posts in AICC/PCC; why cannot she seek the ticket? She is an independent person; how can I control her?”
 
 Meghwal added, “I have no role in Nagar’s suspension or in not revoking it. CBI and three lawyers have appealed in the high court against his acquittal in the rape case.” “So far I have not interfered in Dudu matters but if he (Nagar) has come to such levels, I will begin touring the constituency area,” said Meghwal.
 
 The memorandum submitted to the PCC chief, on the other hand, accused Meghwal of creating groups within the Dudu Congress committee. “For his personal gains, Meghwal has appointed as many as 36 persons in the DCC from Dudu constituency alone,” it read.
 
 
