NEW DELHI: The   filed by the police against an Afghan conman, accused of raping a US woman, mentions that it isn’t difficult for a foreign national to procure fake documents, live like an Indian citizen, purchase property, and, perhaps, vote in elections. The gaps in the system prove to be a shield for especially those who knowingly defy the law.

 The case of   alias Faheem Mohd Zai is one such example where he not only managed to deceive the authorities, but thrived enough to carry out his crimes. Akbar had it all — an adoption deed of a local Muslim woman, multiple bank accounts and even an election identity card — to survive in the country.
 
 For his purported crimes, including rape, Akbar has been chargesheeted under various IPC sections besides Section 14 of   Act (amendment) 2004 dealing with the illegal entry into the country and using forged documents. In addition, he has also been charged under Information Technology Act 2000 for using computers a tool of deception and violating the complainant’s privacy.
 
 Information gathered from Foreigner Regional Registration Office ( ) by the police revealed that Akbar came to India on July 7, 2013 on an Afghan passport with a valid visa till December 2013. The adoption deed dated January 13, 2016 turned out to be faked as his “adoptive mother” denied having signed any such deed. Secondly, the adoption was not recognised under Muslim law.
 
 Akbar had opened multiple bank accounts posing as an Indian born in New Delhi. The police found that he had deposited huge sums of money. He had even duped the US national of 90,000 US dollars. He purportedly told the police that he used this money to purchase property in  .
 
 The chargesheet also mentions that Akbar was helped by locals in his illegal activities. One Bhagat Singh has been shown as his partner in a company, which also has a bank account. He was also aided by people for fraudulently procuring the fake adoption deed. Similarly, his fake election ID showed him as the son of Mohd Akbar from Jamia Nagar.
 
 Appearing for the complainant, advocate Manoj Taneja had during the course of arguments on Akbar’s bail plea cited a Supreme Court judgment on illegal entry of foreigners. “The judgment is clear that there is need for imposing a stricter sentence considering the large number of infiltrators.”
 
 Following the news of Akbar’s arrest, Delhi Police received several emails from women who claim to have fallen prey to him. “The emails received from many victims outside India also reveal that Akbar had been using similar modus operandi for committing offences while living in India,” the chargesheet says, though pointing out that none of the victims have approached the police. The next hearing is on May 16.
 
