GREATER NOIDA: The spectre of ABVP muscle-flexing reached Greater Noida on Monday, and claimed its first victim there. ABVP activists from outside entered the private Lloyd Law College, Knowledge Park, Greater Noida to lead a rowdy four-hour-long protest of students against the director  , leading to the management caving in and accepting his resignation.

 Salim had submitted his resignation in a huff on Sunday, after a group of students alleged he had verbally abused a female batchmate for being late to class.
 
 The college, which has no union or politically affiliated body on campus, saw on Monday morning students, led by a group of ABVP activists from outside, aggressively banging the cabin doors of the college president and principal, shouting slogans against the principal Akhilesh Kumar Khan. They said this was not the first time the director had misbehaved with students. “There were a few outsiders who said they were from ABVP. We called police to control them. Police arrived from the Knowledge Park and Surajpur police stations and told them they would be thrown out if they protest,” said Vandana Sethi, the institute’s public relation officer and director of its school of pharmacy.
 
 Students resorted to sloganeering even as the female complainants were discussing the matter with the president. “The female students are being pressurised to accept they are satisfied with the action taken by the college authorities,” said a student, before the director’s resignation.
 
 Sethi told TOI the president of Lloyd Group, Manohar Thairani, has accepted Salim’s resignation. “Although in such cases, an inquiry is carried out before any action is taken, but since the students were convinced, the management decided to accept the director’s resignation,” she said, adding that prima facie, it was found the director was indeed “too strict”.
 
 “We have given the students in writing that the director’s resignation has been accepted, though an investigation will be carried out in the matter,” she said. 
 
 Many students boycotted their classes on Monday. Professors could be seen asking students not to approach the cabins of the president and principal, where other students were protesting. “There are outsiders in our college. Students should continue their classes,” said a professor.
 
 A student claimed his wife was not allowed to sit for her exams as she had fallen short in attendance, after she delivered their baby girl in June. “In December, when exam admit cards were distributed, my wife Anjana was denied one since her attendance was around 10%. When she explained she had to take leave because of her pregnancy, the director asked if she had become pregnant after taking his permission. This was unbearable,” Gaurav Adhana, a Xth semester law student told TOI. He also said while the university required 66% attendance, he too was not allowed to sit for his exams, as his attendance fell short by a mere 1%.
 
 Another student said since the time the director had joined around a year back, he has been overbearing. “He’s good and we can see he’s trying to change many things. But using slurs is unacceptable,” said a VIth semester law student. A batchmate of his said the director would allow a late-comer enter class only after signing a written apology letter.
 
 “Since he joined, the environment had come to resemble a school. Most students come from Delhi, and they have genuine causes for delays,” she said. Others said principal Akhilesh Kumar Khan had told them action would be taken if they were found protesting. “He took a round of the classes and said CCTV cameras are monitoring activities. We wanted to know if someone monitored what the director did to the complainants on Sunday,” said a student.
 
 
