Mangaluru: Disappointment is writ large on the face of Sarah (name changed), a primary school student from a private institution in the city. Sarah had booked her tickets and was eager to meet her parents living abroad during her  . However, the change in Dasara holiday schedule means she cannot make it.

 The state government’s last-minute decision to change the dates for the Dasara holidays has not gone down well with parents, especially those who live abroad and had made vacation plans in the second week of October.
 
 Parents are worried that they have to cancel their tickets that were booked months in advance. “So apart from the inconvenience caused by the government’s decision, parents will also lose the money spent on tickets,” said a principal of a private CBSE school, adding: “Why can’t the government, which gets the calendar of events in advance, plan well?”
 
 Some schools in the city have adhered to the schedule prescribed by the department of public instructions, however some have reorganized their schedules to complete the examination before September 25 and commence holidays later.
 
 It is not just holidays but an athletic meet scheduled to begin from September 25 is also affected by the government decision. A physical education teacher at a government high school pointed out that the cluster-level, three-day athletic meet was to start from September 25. However since holidays would have already begun, officials doubt if students will cut short their vacation and take part in it. “If this event is postponed, it will affect the entire calendar of events. After the cluster level, there is a taluk, district, state and national-level meets,” the teacher said.
 
 Blaming ministers from Dakshina Kannada, who took the sudden decision to change dates in order “to appease people from certain communities”, an official from department of public instructions said: “We are bearing the brunt of the decision. Parents, teachers and students have started venting their anger on us.”
 
 “As an official, I cannot comment about the government’s decision but the change in holiday schedule was declared under certain unavoidable circumstances. This year, Dasara fell a month earlier than usual. Next year, we will ensure that this confusion does not happen,” maintained Y Shivaramaiah, DDPI, DK, speaking to TOI.
 
 Asked if parents, teachers and students expressed their opposition to the sudden change, he said it was “mixed response”. “Since calendar of events are known months in advance, we will ensure that no such inconvenience is caused from next year onwards,” he assured.
 
 B Ramanath Rai, district minister, brushed it aside claiming that no one was inconvenienced by this announcement.
 
 QUOTE
 
 The Kudroli Gokarnatha Temple authorities had given me a memorandum to declare holidays during  , which is akin to a Naada Habba of Mangaluru. It will also help children see the grand Mangaluru Dasara. Because of this move, the Sangh Parivar is not happy and has alleged that it is vote-bank politics thinking that it is a move to appease a certain community. Earlier too, when I had requested the government to advance Eid holiday by a day than rest of the state, as it is celebrated a day earlier here, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said it was appeasement of a particular community. Dasara is everybody’s festival.
 
 B Ramanath Rai | district minister
 
 
