Mumbai:   chairman   has called for greater collaboration among the 100-plus operating companies in a bid to benefit from each other’s strengths and scale as the new chief looks to improve the entities operational performance and boost shareholder returns.

 During an event commemorating JRD Tata’s 113th birth anniversary on Saturday, Chandrasekaran told senior leaders of   companies, “The most important thing that can make a huge impact for all of us is what I call ‘group leverage’— that is the ability of individual operating companies to leverage each other’s strengths and collaborate in a manner that creates a force multiplier for the entire group.”
 
 While group companies have always leveraged on each other’s resources and expertise in various areas like innovation (for example, Tata Swach water purifier which was a result of the collaborative efforts of Tata Chemicals, TCS and Titan), the approach was not cohesive until the recent past. 
 
 In 2014, previous chairman Cyrus Mistry had institutionalised this approach to tap group companies’ capabilities and competencies. The collaborative pitch by Chandrasekaran indicates that he wants to take this forward.
 
 Chandrasekaran, who is five months into his chairmanship tenure, emphasised that every group company must benefit from the conglomerate’s scale, highlighting his idea of functioning as ‘one Tata’. “Only when we are deeply committed to leveraging our ecosystem with words and action, we can truly say that we follow the ‘one Tata’ way,” Chandrasekaran told the gathering comprising   CEO Ralf Speth,   MD T V Narendran,   chief Anil Sardana and TCS boss Rajesh Gopinathan.Traditionally, the conglomerate’s chairman addresses the top leadership on July 29 every year sharing the group’s financial performance and marking out goals. This time though Chandrasekaran didn’t touch upon the business performance and strategic vision of the group.
 
 Besides collaboration, Chandrasekaran stressed that simplification, customer-centricity, leadership pipeline and digital will be forces that will drive the conglomerate. “Over time, we have become very complex. I want us to be a simple, fast company. Without simplicity, it is not possible to achieve scale,” said Chandrasekaran.
 
 
