Spring is almost here and so is the fragrance of freshness in the air that is generally brought in by the various species of flowers that bloom in the city’s nook and cranny and also the trees that are awash with a fresh doze of green leaves. Although Bengaluru is currently battling infrastructural policies that might see a huge number of trees being axed over the coming months, it’s never a bad idea to explore the naturalist within yourself and spend some in the green pockets of the city. Here’re a few smartphone   to help you identify unknown species of flora and fauna around you…

 
 Developed by researchers from Columbia University, the University of Maryland and the Smithsonian Institution, Leafsnap is an array of electronic field guides that rely on visual recognition software to spot tree species from pictures of their leaves. This series comprise high-resolution photographs of leaves, flowers, fruits, petioles, seeds and bark.
 
 
 This flower identification app is considered apt for gardeners, educators, travellers, landscape architects as well as hikers. Thanks to LikeThat Garden’s recognition technology, all you need to do is hold up your device and take a picture of the flower to gather knowledge about its species and more.
 
 
 A free community-based plant image recognition app, Plantifier can help you find garden  , shrubs, trees and bulbs. This app is simple to use and also allows one to save the photographs for future reference. It is a crowd-sourced app developed by Belgian-based designers.
 
 
 With the help of this app, the user can document all their encounters with mammals, birds, snakes, bugs, plants as well as sea-life. WildObs Observer can capture the what/where/when automatically. The app allows you to report your sightings, identify species as well as tag the location.
 
 
 If you’re a bird lover, BirdsEye is the perfect app for you. It is a powerful tool that helps users to explore new birds around them as well as find the usual species. It gives you the inside scoop about the whereabouts of birds in real time, along with a lot of other relevant information.
 
 
