NAGPUR: The cops, who often suggest others to refrain from making investments into unauthorized financial schemes offering illogical high returns, have now become victims on a large scale in a financial fraud perpetrated by one of their colleagues leaving the department now red-faced. More than 1,000 cops have been duped by a constable and the forgery can cross an amount of few crores.

 Naik constable   has gone underground after having allegedly duped several cops, mostly women constables, from different police stations to the tune of around few crores by luring them with higher returns in a co-operative financial scheme which now has gone bust.
 
 Bagde, apart from remaining absent from work, has also remained untraceable as senior cops had been asking him to appear before them for inquiry. The cops from various police stations like Sadar, Gittikhadan, Mankapur, Tehsil, Wadi, Special branch, Koradi, Pachpaoli and also office of the city police chief at Civil Lines have been duped in the case, said a senior officer. Initially, an offence has been registered based on the fraud amount of Rs 2.53 lakhs but is set to increase manifold as more cops may soon come to fore to lodge their complaints too. 
 
 Bagde who is attached to police headquarters, had been collecting deposits from his colleagues in the co-operative financial monthly scheme floated in the name of his wife Abhilasha. He would also furnish receipts to the depositors. The office of the scheme, located at the Welcome society in Friends colony, now mostly remain shut after the cops have started an official inquiry under ACP, Sadar division, Somnath Waghachaure following an instruction from city police chief K Venkatesh.
 
 The matter came to fore in November last year after nine cops from CP office and two ministerial staffers met Venkatesh seeking intervention as Bagde started defaulting and also avoid calls from the depositors. “Abhilasha too can be made a co-accused in the case along with her brother as they too have played a crucial role in the fraud,” said a senior officer. Some cops, walking into his trap, would also work for Bagde to accept the monthly deposits or motivate others. 
 
 It was following the inquiry, the offence was registered at Sadar police station against Bagde for cheating following a formal complaint lodged by woman constable who is now posted at CP’s office. It was learnt that more than 25 cops from Sadar police stations too are among the persons duped. Apart from the cops, he would get depositors from the families of the cops too. 
 
 It has now come to fore that Bagde had also purchased some properties in different places in city and outskirts which he would project as assets invested to arrange for the depositors’ returns. Bagde would try to convince his depositors that he would return their investments with lucrative interests as promised but would start defaulting after giving certain amounts initially. He had learnt to have made some payments to his depositors till mid-2016. 
 
 Sadar police, which have now launched a manhunt for Bagde. They claimed that he had started avoiding his residence and opting to stay at his in-laws’ place at Teka Naka. 
 
 Sources from police department, who is also one of the victims, claimed that Bagde may have a bigger and influential links too. It has also come to fore that Bagde also had accepted deposits from civilians too in his scheme.
 
