BHOPAL: Bollywood star Akshay Kumar had to suspend the shoot of his upcoming film ‘Toilet - Ek Prem Katha’ in Hoshangabad for nearly two hours following a demonstration against bouncers by local residents. Police had to use mild force to take the situation under control. 

 Hoshangabad SP A P Singh said that there was a minor dispute between the bouncers, which has been sorted out and the shooting has resumed. Residents, however, allege that bouncers had misbehaved with local women at the shoot, and demanded an apology. Police took two hours to handle the ruckus. 
 
 Some of the bouncers were brought by the crew and some were hired locally. Trouble broke out when shooting was on in a narrow lane and bouncers started clearing the crowd.
 
 Based on the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, ‘Toilet — Ek Prem Katha’ also stars Bhumi Pednekar, who made her Bollywood debut with the National Award winning film ‘Dum Laga Ke Haisha’. The film is jointly produced by Neeraj Pandey and Vikram Malhotra of ‘Baby’, ‘Special 26’ and ‘Rustom’ fame, and is expected to release later this year.
 
 This is not the first time the film has run into trouble. During shooting in Nandgaon (UP), it raised the hackles of religious leaders and a sadhu even announced a reward of Rs 1 crore to anyone who brings him the “tongue of the film’s director, Narain Singh”.
 
 The problem was triggered by reports that the movie depicts romance between a man and a woman hailing from Nandgaon and Barsana villages. Traditionally, no marriage is allowed these two villages — While Lord Krishna hailed from Nandgaon, Radha was from Barsana.
 
 According to media reports, a Barasana villager, Phooldol Behari Dass Maharaj, said they wouldn’t allow the shooting to continue unless the director changed the storyline. Another religious leader declared a bounty of Rs 1 crore for the tongue of the director. Narain Singh then addressed media in Mathura, appealing to people not to fall for rumours. He promised that religious sentiments will not be hurt. 
 
