CHENNAI: The AIADMK's decision to field its deputy general secretary   in R K Nagar is presumably aimed at facilitating his   of the administrative reins. But, in an interview with Julie Mariappan, Dinakaran stoutly denied any plans to become Tamil Nadu chief minister. 

  
 
 There is no split. Only a few have left us, after being misled by  . 
 
 They will return to us after our massive victory in R K Nagar. I am Amma's candidate. I will win with a margin of 50,000 votes. 
 
  
 
 The choice was unanimous as it was done based on cadres' wishes.
 
  
 
 
 Absolutely. There will be speculations and expectations. I'm telling you the truth. 
 
  
 
 
 It is job of opposition to level charges. We will prove them wrong. The people, especially in R K Nagar, know better that Chinnamma (Sasikala) was associated with Jayalalithaa for 33 years, as a close friend, mother and companion. The opposition begun a false propaganda after her demise. People will not buy it. AIADMK cadres will visit each house to explain to people and to ensure our victory.
 
  
 
 
 Her appointment is according to party bylaws. All the appointments and dismissals she made are valid. The election commission questioned the validity of the reply to the notice issued earlier, since it did not have the relevant details of my appointment. We have sent the replies again. The rivals can file only petitions. But we enjoy support of MLAs, MPs, members of the general council and executive committee. Maybe 1% or 2% may have got fooled and switched camps. 
 
 
 
 I am going to contest in two leaves symbol. It is a victory symbol of Puratchi Thalavar MGR and Amma's.
 
  
 
 He is greedy for power. He is not popular among MLAs, but still after Amma's demise, Sasikala made him chief minister. He was removed after his misdeeds, and for his leanings towards our enemy DMK. 
 
  
 
 Obviously, DMK. For us, DMK remains our enemy from the days of MGR.
 
  
 
 
 I am back. There is no need to reinduct, when there is no necessity to do so. How many family members should take the political plunge in a family? Do you wish to see a DMK here? I wasn't brought in by Sasikala, but Amma, who introduced me to politics in 1999.
 
