MUMBAI: The BMC has planned a makeover for the entries and exits of the subway at the heritage   (CST). Earlier this week, the civic body approached the   (MHCC) seeking approval to change the current polycarbonate roofing at the entries and exits of the subway into transparent toughened glass canopies. 

 The proposal is one of the many plans that the BMC and railways have drafted to transform the area around the iconic railway station to enhance its heritage value. CST and its surrounding area are among the 10 iconic places that have been selected to implement the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan mission. The BMC is also making efforts to make the area around the station pedestrian friendly.
 
 In November last year, municipal commissioner   had inspected the area around the terminus and suggested additions like a viewing gallery opposite CST—work on which has already begun, changing the tiles on the footpath of Dr D N road and revamping the footover bridge near the station. Mehta had also suggested changing the entrance and exit canopy of the subway and asked officials to immediately come up with a design. 
 
 The BMC on Tuesday made a presentation to an MHCC committee seeking a nod for the proposal. “The heritage committee was convinced with the concept. At present, the arches on the CST building are not clearly visible as the polycarbonate roofing covers it. Therefore, it has been proposed that the canopy height be reduced. We have also sought clarity on whether the bridges department or local ward would be implementing the design,” said a heritage committee official. The toughened glass is also likely to have anti-reflectors and be slightly tilted so that rain water does not accumulate over it. 
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (A ward)  , who made the presentation, said that the civic body would use only steel and glass for the new canopy and there will be no civil construction. “We also plan to put up a map at the entry and exit to help commuters locate where they are,” he said. 
 
 
