CHENNAI: When behind the wheel, speed came naturally to  . There wasn't any reckless streak in the way he handled it, he was just a pro, doing it on various tracks across the country even before he turned 18.

 The baby-faced champion started off as a biker making a mark in the  . The next year, he stunned everyone bagging his maiden national title in 115cc 4-stroke and 150cc 4-stroke class for  . He made his overseas debut the same year and became first runner-up in   in underbone class (U-21).
 
 But there was always the love for cars. Even when he was winning medals on the bike, Ashwin harboured hopes of making it big in formula car racing.
 
 “Ashwin was a very talented driver, who tried his hand at everything. He was a born racer who was equally at ease with karting, bike racing and formula cars. It's a huge loss for the racing fraternity and it would be impossible to get another versatile racer like Ashwin,“ Sanjay Sharma, JK motorsports head, told TOI.
 
 “I always enjoy driving cars but bike is my passion. When it comes to competition, I'm good at both and confident of winning more titles,“ Ashwin told this correspondent in 2007, while driving his first car -an orange Maruti Swift.
 
 After making the transition to car racing, Ashwin finished second runner-up in   and Formula LGB categories in Indian Championship in 2006 and went on to win his maiden national title in Formula LGB Hyundai and   next year.Though it was a bit of a roller-coaster ride for him for about a year, the Chennai racer bounced back in style to win the national championship in Formula Rolon Chevrolet (1600cc) category in 2009.
 
 His talent was recognised by motor sports experts at an early stage and it was a given that he would go on to rule the track. “I have known Ashwin since he was a kid, and I have seen how he rose to the top. He was an exceptional talent,“ Vicky Chandhok, former FMSCI presi dent and father of former Formula One driver Karun, said.
 
 Ashwin represented various teams like  , Rams Racing, MRF ISH Racing and TVS Racing at the national-level. He was groomed by former F1 driver Narain Kartikey an during his days with NK Rac ing. “I don't know what to say. It's extreme ly disturbing to know that such a genial boy and a quality driver is no longer with us,“ Akbar Ebrahim, the owner of Meco Racing and a former national champion, said.
 
 Every racer meets with an accident here and there in his career, and Ashwin was no exception. But he always came out of those strong, and when it came to life off the tracks, he wasn't the adven turous type. “There are many provoca tions when you are a racing car driver, but Ashwin always stayed away from those. He was a disciplined boy, didn't smoke or drink, and was an absolute fit ness freak,“ said a close friend.
 
 But all that came to nothing during a moment of madness on Saturday morning.
 
