NEW DELHI: Arvind Kejriwal-led   told the Supreme Court on Thursday that an anarchic situation had arisen with the lieutenant governor overruling its decision “in violation of constitutional norms” and pleaded to the court to restore the supremacy of executive government in the decision-making process. 

 Challenging the order of the  , which had held that primacy in administering the affairs rests with the LG and by extension the Centre, senior advocate Gopal Subramaniam told a bench of Justices A K Sikri and R K Agrawal that the order was a complete “mutilation” of Article 239 AA of the Constitution granting special status to the National Capital Territory (NCT).
 
 Expounding constitutional provisions and law which regulate Delhi, Subramaniam contended that the controversy was not about individuals who were holding posts but about supremacy of the Constitution. He said an elected government should always have a primacy over a titular head of a state.
 
 “The Government of   (GNCTD) Act explicitly limits the discretion of LG and any delegation of power given to him by the President can be used only to matters falling outside the purview of Delhi’s legislature. The Act says these are matters on which the LG is required to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers,” he said.
 
 He said under the law, the Centre was allowed to deal with only issues relating to land, police and public order and the rest of the issues were to be handled by the Govt of NCT. “Since law rules out from the area of LG’s discretion all matters that fall within the purview of the elected government, there is no occasion for him to differ or have an opinion on these matters. There is no other constitutional or political principle which gives him any role in these matters,” he said. “By virtue of being an elected government, the Delhi cabinet is politically and constitutionally answerable to its electorate on all matters affecting them.”
 
 In its 194-page order, the HC had said it was of the “considered view that it is mandatory under the constitutional scheme to communicate the decision of the council of ministers to the LG even in relation to the matters in respect of which power to make laws has been conferred on the legislative assembly of NCTD”. Questioning the constitutional validity of the verdict, Subramaniam said the constitution did not contemplate that an elected government could be made subservient to either the LG or Centre.
 
 
