Nagpur: Haphazard and illegal   by careless citizens has become a bane for motorists using West High Court Road.

 Despite plenty of ‘No Parking’ boards displayed along the patch from Bajaj Nagar Square to Law College Square, carelessly parked vehicles add to the woes of motorists, who jostle for space throughout the day on what is called one of the busiest streets of the  .
 
 On  , TOI did a random survey and found a large number of visitors to Dharampeth and in the vicinity park their respective vehicles as they wish without bothering about obstructions, created by their   parking, for the movement of vehicles. 
 
  police have already put up ‘No Parking’ signs but these miscreants, apparently, ignore the same. Some audacious motorists — four-and two-wheeler drivers — even park their vehicles right under such signboards.
 
 Emphasizing that deployment of at least two policemen on regular patrolling will ease congestion, Dinesh Naidu, secretary of Parivartan — The Citizens’ Forum, said, “Even non-peak hours are a nightmare on WHC road. Traffic comes to a standstill especially in evenings. In fact, double parking on the road is a main culprit.”
 
 Naidu further said, “The duty of traffic police does not end with putting up signage but they also need to visit the spot and take regular action against violators. Only such proactivity can make this road free for traffic movement again.”
 
 In fact, the chaotic condition of WHC Road is not the only case where haphazard parking is creating hardships for commuters. Similar case is with Residency Road in Sadar, Sakkardara Road, Kelibagh Road, Chitnis Park Road, Central Avenue and the patch from LIC Square to Jai Stambh Square also.
 
 At Rani Jhansi Square, autorickshaws are parked perpendicularly to the bus stop, causing nuisance for commuters.
 
 Earlier, the traffic police had special patrolling squad armed with ‘car lifting’ cranes for major roads, including at WHC Road, Residency Road, Wardha Road and Central Avenue. The squad used to ensure no haphazard parking. Later, the squad was disbanded over some corruption charges. But city motorists feel the situation was better when the squad was in function.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi blamed wrong and double parking for impeding the smooth flow of traffic on various roads of the city.
 
 He said teams have already been constituted to lift vehicles on the violation and urged motorists to avoid parking in “no parking areas” as well as on roadsides that leads to traffic jam and create problems for the public.
 
 To a query, the DCP said the department will soon declare the patch between Law College Square and Shankar Nagar Square on WHC Road a complete no-parking zone for four-wheelers.
 
 
