Mumbai: The proposed   of   with Max Life has been called off with the expiry of a ‘standstill agreement’ between the two parties, and   deciding not to extend it further.

 Max India — the parent of   — said in a statement to the exchanges that the confidentiality, exclusivity and standstill agreement dated June 17, 2016 entered among the parties, is not being extended further. “The proposed scheme and the applications filed in this regard with the stock exchanges should be kindly treated as withdrawn,” said the statement.
 
 Max India said in a press release, “The prospective partners had evaluated several alternative structures over the last month. However, the inordinate time associated with finalisation and approval of these structures led to this decision.”
 
 The statement also added that Max was approached with the merger proposition given its business success. “The company will continue on its path to aggressively invest in organic and inorganic growth levers,” Max said. It added that it will pursue acquisition opportunities as the industry further consolidates.
 
 The Max-HDFC merger was stymied by the   regulator who felt that the three-stage merger structure — which involved a life insurance company merging with a finance company, albeit momentarily until the demerger of non-insurance activities — could not be permitted.
 
 Last month, Max India had informed the exchange that HDFC Life and Max Life remain committed to the merger and are evaluating various options. Since then, HDFC Life had made clear its intentions to file for an initial public offering (IPO) and revisit the merger proposal subsequently. Last week, HDFC cleared a 9.75% stake sale in HDFC Life through an  . The company’s foreign partner Standard Life, which holds 35%, was also expected to sell a significant stake through the IPO.
 
 HDFC Life is the third-largest private life insurer in India with assets under management of Rs 91,742 crore as on March 31, 2017. The company reported a profit of Rs 892 crore in FY17 and has a net worth of Rs 3,829 crore. Analysts expect that the market valuation of the life insurer to be close to Rs 60,000 crore.
 
 
