BENGALURU: Six-year-old Nilam (name changed) suffers from lysosomal storage disorder, a group of genetic, metabolic disorders caused due to defects in essential enzyme functioning. Though she is fortunate to get free treatment from the Employees' State   ( ) hospital, her monthly three-day leave requirement for enzyme infusion seems to have become a hurdle for her education. 

  Two weeks ago, Gnana   in Bannerghatta, where Nilam had applied for a seat, denied her admission allegedly on grounds of her ailment. 
 
 Nilam's father Chinnappa S, an autorickshaw driver, was shocked when the headmistress told him they don't admit students with such rare diseases. 
 
 "She suffers from a genetic anomaly which requires her to undergo enzyme infusion every fortnight at the hospital," said Chinnappa whose son is a class IX student in the same school.
 
 "It was a long struggle for us to get free treatment from ESI hospital. The imported enzyme is expensive. Now that she is getting treatment, I don't want this to become an obstacle to her education," he added.
 
 Kavitha S N, headmistress of Gnana Bindu Vidyalaya, told TOI: "It is not possible to grant the child six days of leave every month for treatment; there will be opposition from parents of other children. Hence, we refused to admit her as we have certain administrative limitations too." 
 
 Chinnappa, however, claimed he had requested for three-day leave. He has now complained to the Organization of Rare Disease India (ORDI).
 
 Prasanna Kumar B Shirol, co-founder of ORDI and founder, former president at  , said: "It is shocking that a school is denying education based on a child's health. No law in the country denies a child her right to education based on a rare disease. Also, when it comes to requirement of leave for a life-saving treatment, the school should understand the emergency and cooperate. The organization plans to meet the school authority and demand a written statement, citing reason for refusing admission and will accordingly raise a complaint with the education department." 
 
 Prasanna's daughter, who is now 18, also suffers from a rare genetic anomaly and has been on 24-hour ventilation since 2007. However, her worst physical condition did not stop her from getting education. "My daughter's school had been extremely helpful and admitted her without asking questions. They had made special arrangements to accommodate her in the class with other children. She studies at MES College and is receiving guidance from the college authority. She goes to college with all the required equipment to tackle her situation," said Prasanna.
 
