Cuncolim:   kept their calm at crucial junctures to register an important five-set victory over Income Tax, Andhra Pradesh, in the opening match of the   invitational   tournament organized by   Union at Cuncolim court on Tuesday.
 
  Haryana Police, with a couple of international players, were heavily favoured to win this opening encounter but the new entrants were forced into a shell after winning the opening set. They lost the next two sets rather tamely but put their experience to good use as they took a giant step towards the semifinals with a hard-fought 26-24, 23-25, 16-25, 25-23, 15-11 victory.
  
  Much of Haryana’s credit for this victory should go to Suresh Kumar (Vicky) who was in stunning form. When his teammates were losing their heads and giving away too many negative points, Suresh remained unaffected and gleaned crucial points. Former international Sube Singh, as always, was reliable while captain Dipesh Kumar was strong in front of the net.
  
  Haryana started strongly and raced ahead in the opening set but, in reality, it were Income Tax who gifted the opening set. When they were tied on points at 23-23, a faulty serve, wrong set and inept first pass led to their downfall.
  
  Income Tax, in all fairness, measured up to the challenge and made Haryana sweat for every point.  ,   and   have plenty of potential and were as good as any other impressive player the competition has seen but they left too much to do in the end.
  
  After pocketing the second and third set, Income Tax should have wrapped up the match in the fourth set but they took things for granted, allowing Haryana Police an easy passage back into this game. Once into the final set, Haryana Police smelt victory and, quite expectedly, led from start to finish.
  
  Earlier the tournament was declared open by former state volleyball player and Assistant Commissioner (Customs) John D’Cruz in the presence of Cuncolim Union chairman Elvis Gomes.
  
  ACTION TODAY
  
  Punjab Police vs Haryana Police, 8pm; ONGC, Dehradun vs South Central Railway, Cuncolim court
