BATHINDA: Close on the heels of two   getting killed for trying to wrest the control of a truck union at Bareta town in  , two groups of party workers clashed in Rama town of Bathinda to take over the   on Tuesday. It was alleged that shots were fired in the air, but no one was injured. 

 Police have arrested six members of a faction of the Congress and a case under attempt to murder charges has been registered. Two Congress workers were killed on Sunday morning and their accomplice injured when they wanted to take control of a truck union in Bareta, Mansa. 
 
 “On directions of the Congress candidate from Talwandi Sabo, Khushbaz Singh Jattana, party workers had on Monday formed a four-member committee to oversee the affairs of the truck union at Rama Mandi, so that it could be run smoothly. Some persons belonging to another faction of Congress led by Gurwinder Singh barged into the truck union premises situated on the Talwandi Sabo road and tried to take control of the union. They fired at us and some other truck operators present in the office,” alleged Rama Mandi resident Ramesh Kumar, who is a member of the four-member committee formed to oversee affairs and a complainant in the case.
 
 Ramesh alleged that nearly a dozen persons led by Gurwinder also threatened them with dire consequences. “We saved our lives by running for cover. Angry over the attack, some truck operators damaged one of the cars in which the intruders had reached the truck union,” he claimed. 
 
 He alleged that the truck operators complained to the police to take action against intruders. Jattana said, “Truck operators had contacted me for forming a committee. I asked them to make an arrangement for running the union smoothly, but some other persons led by Youth Congress worker Gurwinder wanted to wrest control which was resisted. We don’t want such a thing to happen again.”
 
 Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma denied that the dispute among truck union members was political. He said some operators of a breakaway faction of the truck union wanted to forcibly take its control and had called some supporters from Faridkot and Ferozepur. “They threatened the truck operators. Intruders Gurwinder Singh of Rama, Gurlal Singh, Kamaljit Singh, Vijay Kumar and Swaranjit Singh of Faridkot, Dilawar Singh of Dheemawali village and Gurkirat Singh of Ferozepur have been arrested. A case of attempt to murder, wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation, rioting with weapons and unlawful assembly has been registered against them. We are investigating into allegations that they fired gunshots,” the SSP said.
 
