NAGPUR: For three city shuttlers  ,   and   the Women’s Day was a bit extra special. The trio got their long-pending dues cleared by Nagpur University on Wednesday. The three LAD College students had represented India at the World University   Championship held in Ramenskoe, Russia, during last September.

 As per the norm, the shuttlers paid the tour expenses from own pockets. Since last six months they were waiting for their dues - amounting Rs 1,07,948 each - to be reimbursed by the Nagpur University.
 
 The wait finally ended on Wednesday as university sanctioned Rs 3,23,844 towards clearing their dues. Newly appointed director of the Nagpur University Physical Education Department, Kalpana Jadhav, too played an important role in clearing the shuttlers’ dues. Jadhav, who was appointed as the director on Monday, is the first women to hold the post in NU’s 94-year history.
 
 “I don’t like pending works. I wanted to make sure that the girls, who have brought laurels to the varsity, get their dues cleared on a day when women across the world will be celebrating their day,” Jadhav said.
 
 Vice chancellor, Siddharth Vinayak Kane, and registrar Puranchandra Meshram also felicitated the shuttlers for winning back-to-back medals in the All-India Inter University Championships in 2015 and in January this year.
 Vaishnavi, Bhakti and Khushboo were selected to represent the country at the at the World University Badminton Championship after winning bronze medal at the 2015 All India Inter-University meet in Gwalior.
 
 “We were assured that we will get our tour expenses back. But we were kept waiting for almost six months. I felt relieved when Kalpana madam informed us to collect our cheques on Wednesday. It being the Women’s Day was nice coincidence,” Vaishnavi, a first year BA student of LAD College, told TOI.
 
 Bhakti, a BCom final year student, added: “We have been waiting for our dues to get cleared since last six months. Former director Welukar sir, had assured us that we get our dues back soon.”
 
 Dhananjay Welukar too was present when the shuttlers were handed over the cheques. “Nagpur is the only university in India which reimburses the tour expenses of its sportspersons. I started the trend in 2012. Though, the players need to make their own expenses while going on a tour, the university makes sure that the dues get cleared,” Welukar said.
 
 “In addition during the annual felicitation function, university will reward the sportspersons with cash awards too. All these three shuttlers will also be given a prize money of around Rs 25,000 too,” Welukar further added.
 
 In addition to their international achievement the trio have won the gold medal in the West Zone inter-university tournament at Latur in October 2016. In the All-India meet organized by the Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, in January this year, the city girls brought home their second successive bronze medal and have been picked as probable players for the world university championship.
 
