INDORE: Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court on Wednesday disposed of a petition regarding incomplete work at   and directed the divisional commissioner to call a meeting of IDA officials and a contractor within a week to complete the remaining work in two months.

 The court directed IDA officials to provide a copy of detailed designs of the remaining work to the contractor.
 
 The order also specified that in case the contractor feels the detailed designs have not been provided to him regarding particular work, he shall complete the same as per terms and conditions of the contract without compromising technical specifications, quality and aesthetics of the work.
 
 Expressing concern regarding woes of people due to the slow progress of the RoB, the court in its order has noted, “At present, the ultimate sufferer is the public at large. This is the core issue of our concern.”
 
 “Agony, anguish and anxiety of the petitioners are leading to the delay in completion of work between   to   even after 8 years,” the first line of the order in the quote of Justice   stated.
 
 The petition had been filed by local residents Sanjay Kamle, Pourush Borgainkar and   through advocate Vinay Zelawat in 2014.
 
 The RoB had been under construction since 2007 and was opened for traffic only in January 2016. Despite being opened to traffic, the work is still incomplete, regarding which both the IDA and contractor filed several affidavits.
 
 The contractor claimed that detailed designs of the remaining work were not provided to him, whereas the IDA claimed to have given him the designs.
 
 The order has also directed the chief executive officer of the IDA to submit a report of the work along with his affidavit in two months.
 
 Calling the situation disappointing, the court has noted that whosoever may be at fault, it can be decided in an appropriate proceeding and can also be punished or penalized accordingly. The court has also granted liberty to the parties to approach the court in case the need arises.
 
 
