MUMBAI: Foreign exchange dealers are expecting a fresh bout of uncertainty in the currency   on Monday. US President 
  saw American equities close higher, but the lack of clarity on policy has raised doubts over how sustained the dollar rise will be. 

 There is wide expectation that the dollar will open strong next week, considering Trump’s proposals on tax cuts and promoting local manufacturing along with curbs on imports. Ahead of Trump’s inaugural address, the rupee fell five paise to close at a one-week low of Rs 68.18 on Friday. It is expected to trade between Rs 68 and Rs 69.5 in coming weeks. 
 
 According to Ashish Vaidya, head of trading and asset-liability management at DBS, some of the protectionist measures might be positive for the US economy, and there have already been some capital flows from emerging markets to the US and some more may follow. “Overall, I think it is going to be negative for the emerging markets. Almost all the analysts are negative on the rupee,” he added.
 
 “Stock markets globally will have a negative wave which will feed into our markets too. Trump’s ‘Make in America’ platform appears intact, and he is the type to get down to work on both political and economic issues ASAP,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care. 
 
 However, it does not still look like 
  and hence, while IT stocks will be cautious, there is no threat of any immediate embargo, unlike say for China or Mexico, he added. What will impact India is the combination of Trump taking charge and US   chair Janet Yellen saying that the US is on its way to a recovery and higher growth.
 
 “Then funds in general may slow down to emerging countries and we cannot be insulated here,” said Sabnavis. A stronger dollar does not bode well for inflation since all imports are denominated in dollars. This would raise the cost of imports of commodities such as oil, which has already firmed up 25% in recent months. “A Trumpian view that looks at global trade and commerce and geo-strategic alliances as a zero-sum game with losers and winners, as against a win-win for both the trading partners and geostrategic allies, can only fuel trade wars. Trade wars, retaliatory tariffs and barriers to free movement of people and trade can cause turbulence in global markets,” said Ajay Bodke, CEO and chief portfolio manager, Prabhudas Lilladher. 
 
 He said one needed to closely watch the detailed fleshing out of Trump’s policies over the next few days to gauge the exact impact. The inauguration of 
  has pushed Dalal Street investors on a wait-and-watch mode with a negative bias towards the companies and industries that count the US as a major market, especially software services and pharma. “The market will be apprehensive of Trump’s policies and about what he actually means when he says ‘Buy American, Hire American’,” said Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund. 
 
 “IT and pharma companies, along with other exporters to the US, would be under the radar. However, what could emerge as the silver lining is if Trump’s anti-China policies actually result in a pro-India stance for the US,” Shah said. Among the leading Indian IT companies, the stock price of TCS, currently at Rs 2,287, has barely changed since November 8, the day of the US presidential election, while Infosys has lost 4.1% and Wipro is up 5.2%. Among the pharma stocks, Lupin is down 3.2%, Cipla is up nearly 7%, Sun Phrma has barely moved while Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is down 5.7%. In comparison, both   and Nifty are down about 2%.
