PUNE: Three days after highend smartphones were stolen from a  , investigations have revealed that the   rapidly as a gang suspected to be from Jharkhand is active in the city.

 The gang stole 208 smartphones worth over Rs 43 lakh from two shops, including 175 from Pimpri and 33 from Hadapsar, on February 20 and 22 while the police was busy in the PMC, PCMC and ZP elections.
 
 The   of the gang members, suspected to be hailing from Jharkhand, involves lingering on the streets near the cellphone shops.
 
 The Pune police had twice identified a gang from Jharkhand and had even raided a village in 2013 and 2014, but failed to lay its hands on them.
 
  from the cyber crime cell of the crime branch said, “The cost of top-end smartphones ranges between Rs 50,000 and Rs 90,000, or more.If such phones are stolen then it is difficult to track its IMEI numbers because the gang destroys its code number, thereby making it difficult for the police to trace them.“ 
 
 “The gang operates in groups carrying weapons in their bags. While some conducts a recce, others steal phones from the shop and hand them over to others for transporting to Jharkhand via Mumbai and Kolkata.The phones are later transported to Bangladesh and Nepal and sold to prospective customers at a cheap rate for instance Rs 5,000 or above. The phones can be used, but it is difficult to trace the user,“ Pawar said, adding that the gang continues to target shops in different cities so that they don't come under the police scanner.
 
 Police officials suspect the involvement of the same gang for targeting many cellphone shops in the city in 2016. Earlier, the gang had targeted shops located on Karve Road from where they made off with cellphones worth Rs 1 crore. The gang is also said to be involved in burglaries at a shop located on Fergusson College Road, another at Hadapsar, and two shops located on Tilak Road.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Suresh Bhosale said, “There were instances that the gang has stolen phones from the entire shop.The gang may be using software for tampering the IMEI numbers of phones. Investigations have also revealed that the phones are sold in local markets in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar at a throw away prices.“
 
 Senior inspector V V Muglikar in-charge of the Pimpri Police said, “We have obtained   and other places which have captured images of the gang and we have come to the conclusion that the gang is from outside Maharashtra.“
 
