NAFGPUR: Complete chaos seems to reign in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) over the garbage separation awareness drive.

 On one hand, the NMC’s general body has resolved to provide two waste bins to every household for free, and on the other NMC officials have decided to facilitate sale of these bins. While NMC claimed that teachers have voluntarily decided to create awareness about garbage separation, the teachers’ union has refused to participate in the exercise.
 
 A NMC official told TOI that a company from the city will sell waste bins for Rs 124 a piece to citizens. “We will provide them space at our zone offices free of cost for facilitating the sale. Later, we will provide them space in our parks and grounds. However, if citizens don’t want to buy the waste bins, they can submit an online application on our website. We will provide two waste bins to such citizens free of cost,” the official said.
 
 The official further said that mayor   had written to all corporators, MLAs and MPs of the city to provide their funds for purchase of these bins. “We have also written to private companies to provide their corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund for the purpose,” he added.
 
 NMC ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, who had tabled the proposal to provide two waste bins to all households free of cost, now sees no contradiction in NMC facilitating sale of waste bins. “We are appealing to citizens to buy the bins if they can afford it,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile,   has strongly opposed NMC’s decision to make 1,000-odd teachers conduct awareness drive about garbage segregation. Mahasangh president   told the media that summer vacations were a right of teachers.
 
 “Each teacher is supposed to go to 600 houses, explain garbage segregation and get a form filled up by the head of the family. This will be cross-checked on random basis by supervisors. This exercise will take days. Why should we waste our holidays like this?” he said.
 
 Gawre further said that teachers had spent about ten days of their holiday period on opening accounts of students. “Why should we be asked to do such works for NMC every time?” he added.
 
 NMC had conducted a meeting of teachers in Vasantrao Deshpande Hall on Friday. The press release issued by NMC claims that all teachers voluntarily agreed to conduct the awareness drive. The mayor told the teachers that they could do any work dedicatedly and produce the desired result.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said that teachers’ participation in the awareness drive was voluntary. “Most teachers are ready to do the job. Only a handful are opposing it. They had taken a pledge to participate in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. This is just a part of that,” he added.
 
 
