PUNE: Students pursuing   can cheer as the excess fees charged by private unaided institutions will now be refunded. The Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) has reduced the fees of professional courses in 2,000 institutions in Maharashtra, including 100 in Pune, by 20% - 25 %.

 After a detailed scrutiny of the   of the private unaided institutions by the committee, it was found that many institutions had submitted fake information about the number of faculty members and submitted fake electricity bills. Students taking admission for 2017-18 academic year will have to pay the revised fees and refund for the old students will be effected.
 
 The  , previously known as  , was formed in 2015 under the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fees) Act, according to which fee of all unaided private institutes was to be approved by a committee set up under this act.
 
 A member of the committee said, “All the 2,000 institutions have already been issued letters to bring down their fees as per the fee structure set by FRA. There have been rampant violation in fee structure and it has been pointed out to each institute.”
 
 As per tradition, the FRA would fix the fee structure after the academic year began. So, for the 2016-17 academic year, the FRA framed the fee structure this year but found that the institutes had overcharged students compared to the facilities provided to them and the expenditure incurred by the institute. The fee structure for all professional courses including engineering, pharmacy, medical, architecture and nursing has been revised by FRA.
 
 The official added, “We had devised a detailed form during the scrutiny of the institutes, including list of faculty members, how many were approved and how many were appointed and also the bank details of every faculty. Facilities provided and expenditure made were also scrutinised minutely. Based on these observations, it was found that institutes had overcharged students by 20%-25 % on an average but in some cases, there was revision of up to 60% and above.” Several institutes in the city, including Genba Sopanrao Moze, Rameshwar Maulee Pratishthan’s College and Sinhagad institutes have said they would appeal for revision in the fee structure.
 
