You may have heard about reel romances turning real, but for   and  , it’s a case of on-screen rivalry spilling onto asli zindagi. The child artistes can give their adult counterparts a run for their money not just in front of the camera, but with their shenanigans behind it as well. 

 While Ananya, 13, plays the title role in Ravindra Gautam’s ' ', Arishfa, who is 14, essays the antagonist. A source from the set says, “Trouble began after Arishfa joined the show. Ananya used to maintain her distance from the other child artistes on the show, but when Arishfa befriended all of them, she became friendlier, too. Also, Ananya didn’t like the fact that Arishfa enjoys a huge fan following on social media. So, she also opened an account on a photo-sharing website and pulled all stops to get more followers. They are perpetually busy, uploading their latest photos and videos in an attempt to attract more followers.” 
 
 Now, even their mothers have entered the fray. Apparently, the ladies create a ruckus if they feel that their ‘rival’ is enjoying preferential treatment. On an outdoor shoot, Ananya’s mother, who was pregnant then, was assigned a car by the production house. On learning about it, Arishfa’s mother threw a fit. Finally, the production house had no option but to assign another car for Arishfa. “They would also fight over vanity vans and make-up rooms. They don’t talk to each other at all.”
 
 On being asked about the tiff, Ananya’s mom says, “There is no fight between the girls; it’s just that they don’t get along. It’s not mandatory to befriend all your co-actors. Ananya already had her set of friends when Arishfa joined the cast. Now, she has her own group of buddies. Also, my daughter has no issues regarding Arishfa’s social media followers.” 
 
 Arishfa’s mother, however, is more forthcoming. She tells us, “Ananya’s mother had an issue with my child right from the beginning. She would taunt us by saying that people like us travel by trains, while they travel by car. She also said that my daughter isn’t educated; hum sadak chaap nahi hain. After being tortured by her taunts on the first outdoor trip, I decided to travel separately for the next. We had even decided against continuing on the show after being treated badly by Ananya’s mother. She runs down my daughter on the set and has turned most of Arishfa’s co-actors against her. If she thinks her daughter is the lead, she shouldn’t forget that my daughter is the antagonist. There is no denying the fact that their rivalry has turned real.”
 
