GURGAON: Three applicants were arrested on Sunday for submitting fake marksheets and certificates in a recruitment drive for soldiers and were produced in a city court on Monday. While two of the accused were sent to judicial custody, the third accused is on two days’ police remand.

 According to police, the trio identified as Pyarelal, Mithlesh Pandey and Raju Yadav, all residents of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, were booked for submitting fake documents, to the  , which is carrying out a recruitment rally at the   in Gurgaon between 29 March and April 7. The recruitment drive was only meant for candidates from Delhi and Haryana but the accused submitted fake domicile of Delhi.
 
 The trio had come to the stadium to participate in the recruitment drive. After physical examination, they submitted class X (CBSE) marksheet along with Aadhar card and a domicile certificate of Delhi, all of which were found to be fake on verification.
 
 On the complaint of recruitment officer Lt. Commandant Ranganath Patil, an FIR has been registered against the trio under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (used as genuine as fraud) of IPC, at Sadar police station.
 
 The complainant asked the police to investigate into the matter to "unearth the fake document network and the touts operating it." It further said that the investigation would be of "immense help to the genuine/deserving candidates and would stop recruitment of fake individuals to the Army."
 
 Two of the accused, Mithlesh and Raju, had come across a tout in Delhi in 2011 who offered to get fake documents made for them, saying that it would improve the chances of them getting admitted if they had better grades. The tout had since then, been in touch with the duo. When they arrived in Delhi on the March 31, they met the tout and gave him their photographs at the railway station. They then received the forged documents the next day, which were delivered to them at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium.
 
 The two accused claim that they were encouraged by the tout, as he had said that he would take payment for the documents, only after they were selected.
 
 Police have taken Pyarelal on two days’ police remand while the other two accused were sent to judicial custody. 
 
 “They are not eligible for the recruitment as they are residents of UP but have submitted fake documents showing them as residents of Delhi. We are questioning the accused”, said ASI Rambir Singh, the investigating officer. 
 
