KOLKATA: In a near-rerun of the Sonarpur   store heist, a gang of three armed robbers struck a gold loan agency office on   near   on Saturday morning. The reportedly also shot at a customer when she tried to raise an alarm.

 According to an employee of India Infoline Finance Ltd (IIFL) gold loan, Rahara branch, two of the three robbers posed as customers and entered the office, leaving the third man to keep watch outside. “It was around 9.40am and we had just opened the branch. Posing as customers, two youths in their early 30s started talking to us for a loan. Suddenly, one of them whipped out a gun and held branch finance manager Biswajit Debnath at gunpoint. They then looted the vaults. They also beat up our security guard  ,” he said. 
 
 Sharbari Ghosh (38), an actual customer, was initially prevented by the man outside from getting in. However, she forced herself inside the office and saw the duo robbing the vault. “When she tried to cry for help, one of the men shot at her,”the witness added. 
 
 Hearing a gunshot, the landlady  , who was on the adjoining balcony, screamed for help. The robbers then fled on their bike. Mondal, however, kept herself locked up till after cops came to the spot.
 
 Though the exact amount of the stolen items is yet to be ascertained, police suspect that the robbers may have made away with Rs 30,000 in cash and 7-8kg of gold ornaments. Branch officials have claimed that gold and cash worth Rs 2.5 crore were stored in the vaults. Police have launched a hunt to nab the culprits and a CID team, too, have started a probe. 
 
 Cops are also investigating any links with another   in the   gold loan branch last December. “Nearly 30kg gold was looted form that office in the same style. We are investigating whether the culprits are the part of the same gang,” an officer said. 
 
 Ajay Thakur, detective chief of the Barrackpore police commissionerate, however, is yet to confirm that the goons opened fire during the robbery. “The woman may have been injured after being hit by the butt of a revolver.” 
 
