KOLKATA:   (NKDA) will bid for gold rating for the satellite township from the   (IGBC), an entity of CII that promotes sustainable built environment.

 “NKDA has appointed consultants for the certification. A report on actionables has been prepared by consultants engaged by us to undertake a preliminary study. A team is driving the corrective measures and the final application for rating is expected to be submitted in six months,” said NKDA chairman Debasish Sen. 
 
 New Town, spread over nearly 7,000 acre, is among the first lot of existing township to strive for green rating. Dhulera, a greenfield mega township spanning 49,000 acre, is making a bid for an even tougher platinum rating but it has the advantage of planning. 
 
 “We could have gone for platinum rating had we initiated the planning before construction began. A lot of construction has already happened in Action Area-I. We have taken some initiatives towards a green township and are today close to the benchmarks for silver. But we wish to strive higher and go for gold,” said Sen.
 
 Shakuntala Ghosh, chairman of the Bengal chapter of IGBC who is advising NKDA on the initiative, said several areas had been marked for attention. “Residents should be able to access a park within 1,400 metre and board a public transport within the same distance from home. We have already initiated the process of marking bus stops. Also, transport must be made accessible for the differently abled and elderly. We have mandated that all roads should have shaded pavements. We have asked NKDA to ensure waste segregation at source, digestion of wet waste and recycling of dry waste. Waste water also needs to be reused,” Ghosh said.
 
 While NKDA currently supplies 200 litre of water per person per day, it has to reduce it to 135 litre per person per day. It has already asked the forest department to use treated water in the upkeep of plants. It has to also increase the renewables pie in the electricity consumed from 2% at present to 10%. All contractors of   have been mandated to only use LED lights.
 
 “Next, we will start waste segregation at source. The CEO and chief engineer have attended a workshop to learn how it can be done. We will initiate an awareness campaign to bring all stakeholders on board. Simultaneously, we are working on a shop that will purchase all recyclable materials,” explained Sen.
 
 IGBC Bengal chapter co-chair Sushil Mohta said several developers were now constructing only green projects as their maintenance was 15-20% lower and payback was three-four years. “Additional cost of developing a green building project against a conventional one is 10-25%,” said Mohta. From the first green building of 4.25 lakh sq ft in 2007-08, Kolkata now has 20 IGBC certified green building projects covering 9 million sq ft built up area. There are another 189 projects with approx 80 million sq ft of built-up area who have registered various IGBC green building ratings. 
 
 
