HYDERABAD: The Centre has asked the   to conduct common medical counselling for admission to medical courses at under-graduate and post-graduate levels on the basis of the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) score.

 Aimed at curbing the practice of charging exorbitant capitation fees by private colleges, authorities said the   will be the basis for medical admissions.
 
 Following recent amendments made to relevant regulations of   (MCI) the state health university will conduct counselling for admissions in all medical colleges. Now Eamcet score will not be considered for MBBS and BDS seats. However, seats for B Pharmacy, Pharma D and BSc (Agriculture) and BSc (Home Science) will be filled through the Eamcet.
 
 The move will be a blow to private medical colleges that allot 50 percent of seats under the management quota on its own either through separate entrance test or through direct process.The NEET directive sent on March 12 to the state government will put an end to their backdoor policy, experts said.
 
 With the counselling process for PG seats beginning shortly, the state government is studying all the modalities in the new single or common counselling system. “We will hold meetings soon as the open management quota needs some deliberation. We may issue a separate GO as there is a preceding GO on counsel ling in private medical colleges,“ Dr B Karunakar Reddy , vice chancellor of Kaloji Narayan Rao University of Health Sciences, said. Officials will explore the possibility of allocating 30 percent seats to non-minorities in minority institutes.“These two aspects need some more clarity before we issue a common counselling notification,“ said an official who held a high level meeting on Tuesday.
 
 Sources said the new system might face a lot of resistance from private medical colleges. “They will oppose this and may even take shelter under earlier court orders,“ one official said.
 
 The Union government had sent advisory for common counselling at the state level in December last year for admission to PG courses for the session 2017-18. It however remained just a directive in the absence of necessary legal provisions. But with the recent amendments to the relevant Acts, the hurdles for common counselling will be cleared.
 
