GURUGRAM: If you too have travelled afar to pay your challan fee, then this may sound like a good news to you. Around 40 additional   will be opened all over Haryana for the convenience of the public. Moreover, the new branches offer cashless modes of payments so the   do not face any cash related hassles.

 At present there are only 22 challan branches in the state. These are set up only at the district headquarters including one at   in Gurgram’s  . As a result, the traffic violators had to travel long distances to pay the fine, which is a hassle especially for those who resides in the outskirts of the main city like Sohna, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, Manesar etc. in district Gurugram. Moreover, the heavy rush or technical glitches at the challan branches often meant that if one didn’t get a chance to pay on their first visit and have to return another day to pay the fine.
 
 But in a major boost to curb this issue, the state police department will now set 40 additional challan branches in   too all over the state. These will include six additional branches in Gurugram sub-divisions including Sohna, Pataudi, Manesar and Farrukhnagar, while the locations for two more centers are yet to be decided. Similarly, Assandh in Karnal, Gohana in Sonepat, Hodal in Palwal, Ferozpur Zirka in Mewat, Kosli in Rewari and Mahendragarh in Narnaul will soon have additional challan branches.
 
 These challan branches will be operated via intranet and will be connected to state police’s internal server. Since only an operator, a computer and an STD landline phone would be the only infrastructure that will be required, the additional branch at sub-divisions with less footfall will be set up at the local police stations too.
 
 A senior official from state traffic police told TOI that “the department plans to set up all new challan branches by the end of this month. After this, there will be 62 challan branches in the state. More importantly, the entire new infrastructure will be based on the concept of cashless economy.”
 
