Mumbai: The Supreme Court’s decision to turn down the plea of an   woman to abort her 26-week-old fetus with Down Syndrome has left the family devastated. Having witnessed the challenges of raising a differently-abled child in the family, the couple was desperately hoping for a favourable verdict.

 In the 16th week of pregnancy, the 37-year-old woman had found out through a screening test that the risk of her baby having Down Syndrome was 1 in 150. She went in for a confirmatory test but reports arrived only after she had crossed the 20-week deadline for medical termination of pregnancy. She approached the SC for permission to terminate the   but it was denied on the basis of a report from a panel of KEM Hospital  .
 
 Gynaecologist and public health activist Dr Nikhil Datar, who counselled the couple, said, “There is already a differently-abled child in their family. They have closely seen the daily struggle of living and raising a child with special needs, which they thought they won’t be able to handle and therefore wanted a solution. They were also worried about their financial constraints becoming a hindrance.”
 
 The KEM panel had said the fetus was suffering from Down Syndrome and the child may be born with physical and medical abnormalities, though there was no threat to the life of the mother or fetus. 
 
 Datar said the outcome of this case may push several women to abort pregnancies on the basis of screening tests. He explained that advanced screening tests such as triple and quadruple markers that determine the Down Syndrome risk can only be carried out after the 15-16th week. “In our health system, not every pregnant woman has immediate access to confirmatory tests. They are literally sitting on a time-bomb, where the confirmatory test, its interpretation and family’s decision to carry on or abort the pregnancy, have to be done within 20weeks,” he said.
 
 Datar recalled how his clinic saved at least two pregnancies where the women had approached them for a termination on the basis of screening reports. “In both cases, the confirmatory test later showed their babies were normal,” he said, adding that the Alibaug woman could have been saved all the hardships if the government passed amendments to the MTP Act that allows termination till 24 weeks. 
 
 But the gynaecology professor of Sion Hospital, Dr Arun Nayak, said cases where women have found out about chromosomal abnormalities after 20 weeks are on a rapid decline. He said even at Sion Hospital, which performs more than 14,000 deliveries annually, such incidents are handful. “The dual and quadruple marker tests when combined with sonography are quite accurate. The onus is on doctors to educate patients about the tests and legal significance of 20-week limit,” he said. He added that the Alibaug couple should be counselled well. “After all there are babies with Down Syndrome who have good IQs and lead near normal lives,” he said.
 
