MUMBAI: The city woke up in the early hours of Wednesday to a   which lasted three hours amid thunder,   and gusty winds.

 It was an unexpected night of heavy rain as the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Mumbai cell had forecast a “thunderstorm accompanied with gusty wind and lightning at isolated places over Konkan” but no specific warnings were issued about severe conditions in the city. Hence, as a   official admitted, protocols were not activated to counter the impact of heavy rain.
 
 “Konkan is a large area (for weather forecasts, Mumbai is considered part of north Konkan) and while warnings for thunder were issued it did not exactly say ‘Mumbai region’. We cannot activate SOPs in such conditions when there are no warnings for Mumbai specifically as it could unnecessarily create a panic situation,” said a senior BMC officer. 
 
 Tuesday night’s downpour accompanied by thunder and lightning lasted three hours from 2.30am to 5.30am. The Santacruz observatory recorded 95mm in this period, which would be described as extremely heavy rain but short of a cloudburst. The total for six hours from 2.30am-8.30am was 103.2mm.
 
 Many residents said they woke up to claps of thunder and the din of the rain. Wind speed at 2.30am was about 43km per hour, double the usual speed.
 
 Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev said, “Lightning was continuous and the wind kept blowing. Thankfully it happened in the night or else it would have created a panic situation,” he said. 
 
 Many took to social media asking Mumbaikars to stay safe and calling the weather ‘insane’ and ‘scary’. 
 
 Data for the 24-hour period from 8.30am to 8.30am between September 12 and 13 recorded by IMD shows more rainfall was recorded in the suburbs than the city. The IMD Colaba observatory’s reading showed 58.6mm while the Santacruz observatory recorded 103.2 mm, which qualifies as ‘heavy rain’.
 
 K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD said rain started after midnight and poured through the night. “It was at its peak till 4am...weather warnings are in place for thundershowers for Wednesday night too,” he said, adding that a low pressure zone over Kerala and neighborhood areas has moved over interior parts of Konkan and resulted in such thundershowers.
 
 Weathermen said a confluence of winds added to it. “The winds were exactly opposite each other and confluence of the westerlies and the easterlies led to such activity. The humidity levels were also very high along with the temperatures which had caused heating,” said scientist Shubhagi Bhute from IMD Mumbai.
 
 
