JODHPUR:  's son, Siddhant, accused of   and missing since Tuesday , was arrested on Thursday by  . His father had been part of the  

 The 20-year-old “confessed“ he had murdered his mother, Dipali, following a heated argument over his progress report. Interacting with mediapersons, Siddhant, without batting an eyelid, said, “There were a lot of problems in the family . She had started fighting a lot lately. I, too, was getting stressed. On Tuesday , my stress went out of control.“
 
 His “confession“ was re corded on camera and videos were soon doing the rounds of social media. Siddhant told the police he had reached Jodhpur via Surat on Wednesday afternoon. He checked into a budget hotel opposite the railway station and stayed inside the room most of the time, venturing out only for meals and to purchase a new mobile, he said. He checked his email over the hotel wifi, which helped the Mumbai police trace him and alert the local police.
 
 SHO (Udaimandir) Madan Beniwal said, “We knocked on the door of his hotel room and, when he opened the door, demanded to see his ID card.“ After verifying his identity, we asked him to come along. He collected all his belongings and accompanied us without a word.'' After preliminary interrogation, the Jodhpur police informed their counterparts in Mumbai who arrived in the evening and took him back to Mumbai.
 
 During preliminary interrogation, Siddhant allegedly said that on Tuesday he had argued with Dipali over his progress report. According to the police, Siddhant lost his temper when she insisted on going to his college and, in a fit of rage, attacked her with a kitchen knife.
 
 “He claims he tried to slit his wrist after murdering his mother but could not. He bathed, packed some clothes, collected money and left for the railway station. He took a train to Surat and, later, to Jodhpur,“ the police said.
 
 Siddhant claimed he had been depressed for quite some time because of his mother's behaviour and the strained relationship between his parents. He travelled ticketless without finding out the destination of the train. He also had Rs 2 lakh in cash, which he had taken from his house before fleeing.
 
 Siddhant had dropped out of engineering college after a year and now is a first-year BSc student. Police said he expressed no regret for murdering his mother and claimed she had made his and his father's lives miserable by quarreling .
 
 He claimed she would have frequent fights with his father and would scold him over his studies. “On Tuesday, she was to go his college and as he did not want her to, he killed her,“ police said. As Siddhant had not been attending college regularly, the college administration had sent many notices to his parents. But he made sure none of them reached.
 
