MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Following the declaration of the  , police and administration in   have stepped up vigilance against  . However, in the past few days, flying squads have allegedly been too zealous in enforcing the model code, seizing cash in transit from banks and traders carrying currency for genuine business transactions.
 
  While bank officials mull complaining to the   about the seizures, traders, too, are incensed over the issue.
  
  Naveen Gupta, president of Meerut Sankyukt Vyapar Sangh, said, “As if notebandi was not enough, cash seizures in the name of model code violations are proving to be quite difficult for the traders’ community. Anybody going to bank to deposit his legal money, if caught by police or I-T sleuths, finds himself in a perilous situation. It becomes a Herculean task to recover the money. And most of the times, it takes too long.”
  
  Gupta on behalf of more than a dozen traders met the district magistrate and sought relief. “Anyone with more than Rs 50,000 cash is being harassed. Our cashiers who bring in payments are the most vulnerable of the lot,” he said.
  
  It is a similar situation across the state. In Bahraich, Sunil Kumar Yagyaseni, general secretary of vegetable oil traders’ association, said, “The retailers based in rural areas are reluctant to travel to cities with cash. As a result, our business is severely hit.”
  
  Bank officials allege that even cash vans are being targeted for no valid reason. In the past three days, cash belonging to more than four banks was seized by the police. Firozabad police seized Rs 1.45 crore being ferried to various branches of a private bank on Thursday. On Friday night, Agra police seized Rs 1.09 crore cash of another bank near Sikandara.
  
  A bank official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It is strange that the police are unable to differentiate between legal and illegal cash. We are still not completely over with the remonetisation process. Such seizures are hampering our efforts to maintain smooth cash flow.”
  
  Meerut lead bank manager Avinash Tanti told TOI, “Very soon we are going to issue a circular to all the banks to keep their documents in proper order so that these vans can conduct their business without any such hindrance.”
  
  In fact, in view of the grievance of the situation, Meerut administration had to form a panel comprising the CDO, ADM (finance) and chief treasury officer to issue NOCs to banks when their cash is on the move. “They need to inform us in advance about the exact movement of cash to branches or ATMs,” CDO Vishak Iyer told TOI.
  
  Police authorities, however, defended their action, saying that they are merely following directives from the poll panel which has asked them to strictly implement the model code. DIG (Meerut range) KS Emanuel said, “It is wrong to say that all cash in transit is being seized. Model code of conduct is in force and EC has given clear directions to prevent misuse of cash in elections. Anyone who has documents showing the source of cash is let off.”
  
    principal commissioner (Meerut circle) Anjali Tiwari, too, defended the cash seizures. “First of all, we are not involved in cash seizures. It is done by the police. Secondly, we are not policymakers but only entrusted with the task of implementing the rules laid down in various sections of the Income Tax Act. If a person can explain the source of cash, that money is released. But, yes, it often takes a couple of years for the process to complete before the money is released to the owner,” she said.
  
  (With inputs from Priyangi Agarwal and Arvind Chauhan)
