NAGPUR: The education department of  , under   — Apang Samaveshit Shikshan venture staged one-act play ‘Don Reghi Wahi…Ek Pravas Shikshanakade’ for physically challenged kids, their parents and all sections of the society at  , Civil Lines, on Friday. 

 The play presented the life of a deaf and dumb child, going through the various stages of life and the difficulties faced by him. Despite all odds, he manages not to just survive life but conquer it. The event began with the lighting of a traditional lamp by mayor Nanda Jichkar. It was followed by a prayer song presented by visually challenged students. 
 
 The play opened with protagonist Prakash wanting to go to a normal school like rest of the kids. The play then proceeds to display his school and college life and finally his job. There are short musical interludes which express the feelings of actors. The play ends with Prakash receiving business excellence award from his company. His acceptance speech marked the end of the play. Prakash thanks his family, his friends and his teachers for constantly supporting him. The audience seemed to deeply connect with Prakash and his flawless performance as the play garnered lots of applause and cheers from a large audience.
 
 The play, written by Priyanka Nandanvar and directed by Chaitanya Dubey, was conceptualized by Abhijeet Raut under the guidance of Nanda Jichkar and municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar.
 
 The play was followed by felicitation of various handicapped students from different NMC schools across the city. Children who had performed well through projects and presentations were felicitated. Present on the occasion were deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar, chairman of the standing committee Sandeep Jadhav, leader of the ruling party Sandip Joshi, Sanjay Mahakalkar, Shravan Hardikar, Dilip Diwe, Ravindra Kumbhare, Ranjana Lade and Farookh Khan.
 
 Shreya Kshirsagar, who was in the audience said, “It was truly a heart touching play. The actors performed so well that I was almost transported back to my school days. Often, handicapped children are not given enough credit for their achievements, but it is a known fact that they work hard just like us.” 
 
