GREATER NOIDA: The   (GNIDA) has sent show cause notice to nearly 400 vacant   in the city for having failed to construct their homes within a stipulated timeframe.

 In the notice sent last week, GNIDA asked the owners of residential plots to respond within 15 days or face hefty penalties, including lease deed cancellations. These plots are of varying sizes and are located across various sectors of the city, officials said.
 
 Deepak Agarwal, chief executive officer (CEO), GNIDA told TOI that GNIDA has been receiving several complaints from residents about   in various sectors. Many of these plots, lying vacant for decades, are also in shambles.
 
 “Some of these plots are also reportedly being misused by criminals,” he said, explaining the move.
 
 According to the officials, under the current set of rules, allottees are required to complete construction on at least 50% of the floor area ratio (FAR). Till September 2011, property owners were allowed to seek completion certificates after constructing just 25% of the permitted FAR.
 
 “Under the existing set of rules, allottees of residential plots in Greater Noida can face financial penalties and even cancellation of allotment, if the allottee does not build within the prescribed period as per the lease deed norms. We are trying to help the allottees avoid the hefty penalties, besides ensuring that vacant plots are not misused. However, if we do not get a satisfactory response to our notice, relevant action will be taken,” he warned.
 
 In June 2013, GNIDA proposed a change in its building byelaws that could have made it mandatory for landowners to build 100% area of the allowed Floor Area Ratio (FAR) on a GNIDA plot within two years of allotment.
 
 If the plot owners failed to abide by the norms, they would have been required to sell the plot to someone else in order to avoid confiscation of property by GNIDA, the proposal further mentioned.
 
 The authority aimed to increase the population density in the city, which still has its targeted population less by around 25%, nearly two decades after it was set up in 1991. 
 
 However, the proposal did not see the light of the day.
 
 
