Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court has deprecated the practice of misuse of atrocity laws, which is a “very powerful and potent weapon”, for the purpose of extorting builders.

 The case pertains to a parcel of land owned by tribals in Surat. This land was sold to builders despite it being restricted tenure land, and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) even granted permission for construction on this land. 
 
 This happened between 1998 and 2001, and the FIR against the purchasers and builders was filed 10 years later for cheating, criminal conspiracy, and under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (prevention of atrocities) Act for dispossessing poor tribals from their land.
 
 As the authorities zeroed down on the issue as violation of section 73AA of Gujarat Land Revenue Code for sale and purchase of the land against law, the HC concluded that this in itself cannot invite atrocity charges.
 
 While quashing the FIR against builders and some of earlier purchasers, Justice J B Pardiwala observed, “There cannot be a better case than the one on hand of gross abuse of the provisions of the Atrocities Act.”
 
 “The FIR on hand is an indication of the extent the members of the Scheduled Castes can go to abuse the provisions of the Atrocities Act, which are otherwise meant for the protection of the underprivileged and downtrodden class of the society,” Pardiwala said.
 
 The HC refused to buy the landowners’ argument that they were duped and forcibly dispossessed of the land. 
 
 The court observed that the landowners live near the plot and construction took place before their eyes. They remained consciously silent for more than a decade. It was only when some lawyer provoked and assured of good returns on filing complaints against the builders, they got into action.
 
 “Having regard to the lack of bona fide of the land owners, if I still hold that the provisions of the Atrocities Act would apply, then the same will be nothing, but mockery of justice,” the judge said.
 
 The judge also rued the manner in which orders were obtained earlier from him by keeping the court in the dark. 
 
 “The impression given to me was that here are the poor tribals, who have been deprived of their precious parcels of lands by powerful builders of the city,” 
 
 Pardiwala said. “I came down heavily on one and all by passing various orders unmindful of the fact that these tribals were dancing to the tune of few unscrupulous persons who were only trying to blackmail and extort money,” he observed.
 
 The HC has asked the Surat police commissioner to personally investigate the case to find out the real culprits behind the land scam.
 
 
