CHANDIGARH: The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government in Haryana has approved the proposal to amend the   (Engagement) Act, 2016, to facilitate re-engagement of law officers, whose term has expired after the commencement of the act. The state government has also decided to bring an ordinance to effect the amendment considering delay in session of  .

 Though the state government has cited “acute shortage” of law officers as reasons for the amendment in law, sources confirmed the move is aimed to accommodate some “well connected” law officers whose tenure had ended or going to end in near future. Sources also added there could be no such acute shortage because there are already more than 150 law officers working in the AG office. The amendment has come within five months of the constitution of the Act, and two and half months of formation of rules regarding engagement of law officers.
 
 The government had to bring the new law following directions of the   passed in March last year directing the states of Punjab and Haryana to frame guidelines for making appointments of law officers on the basis of merit and eligibility, and not for “political aggrandizement and appeasement”.
 
 SC had laid down the procedure directing the two states to constitute a search committee that would recommend a panel of names to the Chief Justice of the high court, who shall revert with his views after consulting other judges. The state government can subsequently make appointments, the court had hold.
 
 Even as the Act commenced in August in Haryana had completely ignored the apex court’s suggestion, the decision taken by the state government on Tuesday to amend the law has completely invalidated the apex court verdict.
 
 Terming the amendment a ploy to completely defeat the SC verdict,  , on whose petition the apex court passed the order, said that the main law formulated by Haryana in August was already in contravention of SC verdict and further amendment has further complicated it. “Even no fresh appointments were made as per the new law and with new amendment, the government has proved that it cannot run its office without the kith and kin of high-ups. Bringing an ordinance on such issue has also proved that ruling party, and not legal acumen, is the deciding factor in the appointment of law officers in Haryana,” said Rapria, adding that he would challenge the Haryana law before the apex court.
 
 Even the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) in its reports has said that appointment of law officers in AG office beyond 60 is a burden on state exchequer.
 
