MADURAI: Farmers in Dindigul are embracing polyhouse farming under   programme (NHM) in a big way with those who went for it five years ago reaping rich dividends. While the district had set a target for including 20,000 farmers under the Indo-Israeli agro project, it received 60,000 applications. 

 But things were not as rosy when the system was introduced with many farmers being apprehensive in adopting the method. ``Now, many have come forward to take it up'', said K Srinivasan, project officer for Centre for Excellence for Vegetables, Reddiarchathiram. As of now, there are about 30 farmers who had plumped for the method in the district. 
 
 Polyhouse cultivation is a protected cultivation where the crops are safeguarded against natural influences like too much sunlight, rain or drought. The major water source for polyhouse or green house cultivation is micro drip irrigation, which ensures that the plants get adequate water. 
 
 The farmers have to invest approximately Rs 10 lakh for a quarter acre, but they can get back the invested money in just two years as far as the hybrid variety of cucumber is concerned, according to Srinivasan. They initially started the cultivation with tomatoes and moved on to cucumber which is being cultivated in large areas.
 
 G Kathirvel Murugan from Kalikampatti panchayat in Dindigul has now started cultivating chrysanthemums in polyhouses and started seeing good returns. The ones that he planted in July have now started flowering. He had invested Rs 30,000 on the plants and Rs 44,000 on setting up the polyhouse. Compared to those grown under open cultivation which start fading from the third day onwards, flowers under protected cultivation have thicker petals and remain fresh even for five to ten days.
 
 On an average, plants on 1,000 square feet yield about 80 kilogram during peak season and sell at Rs 100 per kilogram. Srinivasan said that a farmer could earn about Rs 7,000 per day and quality chrysanthemums for two years.
 
 Hybrid cucumbers with a 130-day cycle would yield 20 tonnes per acre and the fruits would be ready for harvesting 35 days after sowing. A farmer can make a profit of up to Rs 25 lakh per acre in a season with the vegetable selling for Rs 22 per kilogram. A farmer in Bodikamanvadi near Battalagundu has reaped 27 tonnes per quarter acre in the last season, creating a record of sorts. A polyhouse once constructed can be used for twenty years, according to him. 
 
 Polyhouse Versus Open field farming
 
 Polyhouse - Open field
 
 1.Crops protected from natural weather - They are exposed to nature and conditions like excess sunlight and rain
 
 2.Drip irrigation enables water supply - Drought can lead to water scarcity
 
 3.They are protected from pests - Can be affected by pests
 
 4.Crops produce 60 % more yield than under open conditions 
 
 5.Suitable for hybrid varieties - All traditional varieties are cultivated this way
 
 6.Assured returns - Returns depend on climatic conditions.
 
