CHENNAI: The   doesn't seem to be dying anytime soon. A craze for selfie and curious onlookers who threw caution to the wind and gathered close to a shop from where smoke was coming out led to 38people suffering serious burns after an LPG cylinder blast triggered a fire in Meenambal road in Kodungaiyur.

 There was a power cut and people where already out on the streets and they grew curious when smoke started from a shuttered bakery which was part of a three-storied commercial complex at the   main road intersection. In spite of warnings from the police, many huddled around the shop when a fireman lifted the shutter causing an explosion from an LPG leak.
 
 A majority of the people who were injured in the accident were those who stood in front of the shop alongside fire servicemen.
 
 Muthumani, a resident of K K Nagar, who is at Stanley government hospital was among those who tried to shoot a video. “I was returning home from work when I stopped my bike seeing the crowd. I took my phone out seeing others shooting videos, I moved closer when something solid struck me. “My phone flew out of my hand and I was seething in pain within seconds,” he said.
 
 Krishnaveni, an old mother who was struggling to enter the burns ward to see her son said, ““He was just passing by.” Her 27-year-old son Parthiban was returning to his parents’ house in Kodungaiyur when he was hit by the impact, causing a considerable amount of burns on his face while his vehicle was found in a corner of the road.
 
 The neighbourhood is now in shock as they never expected this kind of an accident. Manikantan, who was a regular customer of the bakery, said: “The shop did a good business on Saturday. It is now in ashes. I cannot believe that such a   can happen injuring so many people. “After seeing the blast, I am now scared to go near to the shops adjacent to the building,” said Palani, who works in a nearby juiceshop.
 
 More people would have suffered burns had not a police force chased away a big crowd who closed in to watch the fire fighting. Special sub inspector   managed to chase away at least 150 people. “Some were glued to their mobile phones, uploading the videos on the social networking sites, while a few were on WhatsApp,” he added. Though the blast injured many, fresh set of onlookers continue to visit the  
 
