Relationships have always been the key thread in director Ranjith Sankar’s films, be it Varsham or Su.. Su.. Sudhi Vathmeekam. His upcoming movie  , however, will see him tackling a full-length romance for the first time in his career.
 
 The film has  , in the titular role of Ram Menon aka Raman, while   plays the female protagonist named  .
  
 “Ramante Edenthottam is about mature relationships; romance of people who are at a stage in their lives where they understand themselves and the other person better,” says Ranjith. “This story is about two such people and their relationship over a period of years.”
  
 The two protagonists live in totally different worlds and that makes the premise interesting, says Ranjith. “Raman’s Edenthottam is 500 acres of forest untouched by modern technology. He has his own reason for living there while Malini lives in a metro city, pampered with the comforts and facilities of one,” says the director.
  
 The movie, which will go on floors on February 9, will be shot in Vagamon, Kochi and a foreign locale. The stress, Ranjith says, is paid on the cinematography as it’s elemental to the film. “The serene forest and bustling city are as important as the characters of the movie and their beauty has to be brought out in all its essence. I am happy Madhu Neelakantan will be handling the camera,” he says.
  
 For Ranjith, the film will also mark the fulfilment of a much-desired project. “I have always wanted to a do a movie that has romance as the core theme. In fact, I planned a young love story in 2010. Back then there weren’t many young actors and so the theme was fresh. But the film didn’t materialise and later I lost interest,” he says.
  
 With Ramante Edenthottam he seems to have accomplished that. “It has a refreshing theme that I have wanted to write and I am happy with the final script. Also, it’s been some time since we saw romance in its true essence on screen in Malayalam. That’s what I have tried to explore with this movie,” Ranjith says. 
 
