HYDERABAD: Infrastructure and manpower woes seem to haunt the state-run   ( ) in the city, with the Medical Council of India ( ) denying it permission to start two new postgraduate medical courses citing lack of adequate facilities and trained faculty.

 The MCI said that Nims, a deemed university, does not meet the compliance criteria to start the postgraduate MD (Immuno Haematology & Blood Transfusion) and MD (Emergency medicine) courses in the 2017-18 academic year. This was made clear by MCI’s   (PGMEC) during its Jan 30 meeting in Delhi. After this, they returned the applications filed by the college for both the proposed PG courses.
 
 “The compliance submitted by the college for starting the courses is not satisfactory. PGMEC decided to return the application to the central government recommending disapproval for starting of MD (Emergency Medicine) and MD (Immuno Haematology & Blood Transfusion) at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad,” the MCI observed in its minutes.
 
 In case of both the courses, MCI cited lack of trained faculty. While going through the assessment report in August and subsequent compliance report filed by the college in December 2016, the PGMEC held that “none of the faculty have two years special training in Emergency Medicine”.
 
 It objected to the college’s claim that the faculty had acquired training in the emergency medicine department while on the job, saying that it cannot be equated with a two-year training. 
 
 In the case of MD (Emergency Medicine), the MCI additionally pointed out insufficient experience of six senior resident doctors.
 
 Despite the setback, Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) members feel that the denial of permission for starting the two courses need not spell out an end to their efforts. “Denial of permission to start a new course does not mean that it cannot be applied afresh after meeting the deficiencies pointed out by the MCI,” said TJUDA president Dr G Srinivas.
 Ironically, the courses are being offered by certain corporate hospitals in an informal setting without official MCI recognition.
 
 
