Bengaluru: A 73-year-old man and resident of MES Road, Bahubali Nagar, Jalahalli, north Bengaluru, has approached the Karnataka   Council (KMC) and District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum seeking justice, after a knee replacement surgery on his 61-year-old wife went awry, leaving her disabled. Bedridden for 16 months now, Shahida Khanum has started developing bedsores and cannot move out of bed without help.

 It all began in 2015 when Shahida visited Acura Speciality Hospital, Koramangala, with a history of pain in her right knee; she was admitted to the hospital on August 29, 2015. Following a diagnosis by Dr Mohammad Irshad Ahmed, an orthopaedic surgeon, she was asked to undergo several tests and was put under medication.
 
 "When the medicines didn’t help, Dr Irshad suggested she undergo a total knee replacement surgery. The doctor assured us that post surgery, my wife would be able to walk. The surgery was done on August 31, 2015," said M A Salim Khan, Shahida’s husband.
 
 After the surgery, Shahida was shifted to the ward where she was asked to undergo physiotherapy. Salim alleged that the physiotherapist wasn’t efficient enough, and had done the procedure without a knee brace.
 
 "Once my wife stood up, the operated part burst open due to infection, and her stitches came out. Dr Irshad rushed to her ward and hurriedly stitched the wound with a stapler. Ideally, she should have been taken to the operation theatre and treated with more care and precision," added Salim. Shahida was discharged on September 3, 2015, but had to be readmitted on September 15 due to increasing pain in the operated area. After some doses of antibiotics, she was discharged on September 19, soon after which Dr Irshad left for the US. "Dr Irshad suggested the name of Kumar, a dresser who’d visit my house for attending to my wife’s wounds. However, after a few rounds of dressing, he found a few black patches on her knee and felt she had developed infection," said Salim.
 
 The patient approached Dr AM Shafiq, a consultant orthopaedic surgeon with another hospital in HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar."Dr Shafiq said her knee cap was severely damaged due to infection and needed to be removed. He said my wife was wrongly diagnosed, and didn’t require the surgery. Even after the knee cap was removed, her condition didn’t improve. Today, she’s disabled," he added. On June 2 2016, Salim approached the consumer forum and filed a case against Dr Irshad and Acura Speciality Hospital. He also filed a complaint with the KMC on June 17. TOI is in possession of the KMC complaint and consumer forum documents.
 
 ATTEMPT TO TARNISH OUR IMAGE: HOSPITAL
 
 A spokesperson from Acura Speciality Hospital however said the allegation of medical negligence by Shahida Khanum is “completely false, baseless and malicious”.
 
 Stating that there has been no deficiency or negligence on the part of the hospital, the spokesperson said: “The patient was a known case of rheumatoid arthritis on long-term steroids, having severe pain in both knees, unable to stand or walk without support even before the surgery.” 
 
 The hospital also said Dr Irshad, an orthopedic, was a visiting consultant with Acura; he is a faculty at a medical college, and has over 25 years of experience. “He has performed many surgeries, including knee replacements. His record is blemishless,” it added.
 
 Alleging that the complaints were filed only to tarnish the hospital’s image, the person said the implanted prosthesis is made by a reputed and licensed medical device manufacturer.
 
 “Despite clear instructions, neither did the patient follow post-operative advice, nor report any trouble or pain to the hospital. She wasn’t brought for follow up as required, and didn’t consult Dr Irshad on any problem she claims she was having,” the hospital said.
 
 “The falsity of the case is evident from the fact that she claimed she had terrible pain and yet didn’t consult anyone for nearly two weeks after being discharged,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The hospital also said that the allegations that she was treated by a physiotherapist without a knee brace, and that the orthopedic restitched her wound hurriedly with a stapler at the ward were false and ridiculous.
 
 
