CHENNAI: Heated exchanges were witnessed between DMK leader   and health minister C Vijayabhaskar on Monday over the uncertainty of state board students in getting medical seats given the delay in exempting the state from NEET. 

 The critical remarks of the health minister on the opposition’s plan to agitate against the state had DMK, Congress and IUML walking out in protest.
 
 When the question hour ended, the DMK trained guns on the state’s failure to get the Bills cleared by the President despite a lapse of several months and demanded the resignation of health minister for the failure. 
 
 DMK leader M K Stalin alleged the state and the Central governments betrayed  . “It got a wonderful opportunity to exert pressure on BJP government during Presidential polls to get the exemption. It failed,” he said, urging the state to avail upcoming vice-president polls to safeguard the interests of students. 
 
  said the notification for NEET was made by the   during Congress-UPA regime, in which DMK was part of.
 
 “Of the 84,000 students appeared in NEET, only 4,675 students belonged to Central Board of Secondary Education. We passed two Bills in the Assembly demanding exemption from the entrance test, but they are dumped in central government offices, instead of forwarding to President Office for assent. It goes against the federal principles,” Stalin said, alleging the state’s failure to get a favourable verdict on its order providing 85% quota for state board students in medical admission. The ongoing fiasco has hampered the counselling for medical seats this year.
 
 Vijayabaskar said the government allotted 10% more quota to the CBSE students in contrast to the ratio of students appeared, keeping in mind the welfare of students and not to encourage them to take a legal recourse. 
 
 “But the single judge of the Madras high court has quashed the order and we have moved an appeal petition. We have still time. When the state government is very firm in our stand in getting a favourable verdict, do not think it is over,” the minister said, wondering why the DMK government did not get an exemption when MCI came up with NEET notification.
 
 Stalin rose to say that DMK president  , who was chief minister then, shot off a letter to health minister   and got an interim stay on the notification from the Madras high Court. 
 
 “We did not allow NEET in Tamil Nadu, until we were in power,” he said, and exhorted the state not to rely on the court in the present situation. 
 
 Vijayabaskar said he and health secretary J Radhakrishnan would leave for New Delhi to exert pressure on Centre, but his remarks that the opposition was looking out for an opportunity to protests against the state did not go down well with DMK and allies.
 
