
 
 HYDERABAD: The city is a   of events, playing host to concerts, exhibitions and shows all year round. In the midst of these lies theatre--one of the many dots on the cultural map of Hyderabad, albeit one that is slowly gaining recognition.
 Theatre groups that produce and enact plays are the reason for  's rising popularity . Based in the city, groups like Samahaara, Sutradhar,   and Theatre Group, and the Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation are a few of the active participants in Hyderabad theatre.
 
 “At first, I used to think theatre was not my cup of tea, but as I started watching a few plays at Lamakaan, I came to like it. It deserves more attention than what it is getting,“ says Alekhya Gollapudi, a student “Theatre is an experience unlike any other. It grabs the viewer's attention and drags them headlong into the scene, leaving the memory imprinted on their brain for days to come,“ said an aficionado.
 
 But each scene takes humongous effort to put together and the return on the investment is very low.
 
 “Hyderabad theatre's biggest hurdle is the culture of our state. We never learnt to appreciate art, we have been told to study all our life and get a job, we never had the time, nor do the children of this generation.Unless that changes, Hydera bad theatre will not grow, “ says Rathna Shekar Reddy , founder of Samahaara.
 
 Despite many universities teaching theatre, many graduates take up television, cinema or teaching. Theatre professionals attribute this to the low income, which is in turn caused by a dearth of audience. “Any theatre show takes ef fort. We have to rent a stage and design costumes. But, thanks to   like Lamkaan and  , artistes don't have the burden of renting a space to perform. Unconventional spaces like these help Hyderabad theatre's cause more,“ says Dr Rammohan Hollagundi, founder of Nishumbita Ballet and Theatre Group.
 
 Other than cultural spaces like Lamakaan, theatre festivals are also part of the city's fabric. One such event is the Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation's annual theatre festival, which showcases theatre from all over the world.
 
 Hyderabad theatre is slowly gaining traction, with a lot of youngsters gathering at cultural spaces like Lamakaan.
 
