GURUGRAM: The eight men who carried out the gold   at the   branch on February 9 were novice robbers.

 For starters, the group had surveyed another branch of the gold finance company, situated in the Lakshman Vihar area, but were stopped by the guard. This is when they realised they had to show an identity card and register it same in the visitors’ book before they could gain entry. During the visit, on January 25, they got into a confrontation with the guard. This was a recce but they decided to change the location of the heist, in case the guard from Lakshman Vihar identified them from before.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said either they were underprepared or were inexperienced. Devender, believed to be the ringleader who was arrested from Ahmedabad, had lost Rs 20 lakh while gambling recently, a police officer said. This information, obtained from an informer, led to at least part of the motive being understood while also providing clues about a probable suspect.
 
 On the day of the heist, when they entered the Manappuram premises on New Railway Road, Devender showed his ID. Eventually, the address led the police to Jind. But at Jind, they were led to the house of a lookalike, which led to a wild goose chase for a while. But they did eventually find the house they were looking for. From there, tracking down the suspects proved easy. 
 
 The CCTV cameras, which captured the entire heist, shows the men entering, taking employees hostage at gunpoint, and attempting to spray the camera several minutes into the operation when a large part of the footage had already been recorded. What was surprising is that none of them covered their faces the entire time, which led to their identification after pictures from CCTV footage were published in newspapers. 
 
 According to the Khirwar, the tips-offs played a key role in identifying the robbers. The commissioner also acknowledged the role the news media played in circulating these images.
 
 Then, a woman employee of Manappuram identified the accents in which the robbers were communicating. She told the police they spoke in accents similar to people from Jind and Rohtak. She was right. As Khirwar said, “Both human and technical intelligence played a crucial role in cracking this case.”
 
 Of the eight men who were arrested, five are from Kanpur and three from Haryana. Saini is the only one from Kanpur who has been arrested so far.
 
 
