NEW DELHI: For the past four years,   (DDA) has blocked a large chunk of land in Burari “exclusively” for events organised by  . The site measuring 2.38 lakh sq m (23.8 hectares) is not available to the general public as it can’t be booked online despite a direction from the then lieutenant governor,  .

 “Blocking this site exclusively for Sant Nirankari Mandal since 2012 essentially allows perpetual possession of a large chunk of land (23.865 ha approx) by the Mandal as this site is not available for   by general public,” said Jung in a note to DDA in February 2016. He objected to this, saying that it “usurps the booking rights of general public”. TOI has a copy of the note. 
 
 In 2015 and 2016, the site — located along Outer Ring Road — was booked five times (for nearly 168 days) each year, said a DDA official in-charge of the land. This is despite a policy change on temporary allotment of land for religious purpose by DDA in April 2015. Under this, it was decided to slash the booking period from “120 days to 30 days”. DDA also has a policy that registered societies can book “twice a year for a maximum period of 45 days each under free/nominal category”. 
 
 While seeking permission to allot the site to Sant Nirankari Mandal, DDA had said that it was not made available online as it would cause “difficulties” to the former in case other organisations or individuals booked the site online. “The ground that if any organisation/individual books the site online (it) will cause difficulties to Sant Nirankari Mandal is not justifiable. This usurps the booking rights of the general public,” Jung had observed, directing DDA to frame a transparent policy for streamlining the procedure for temporary allotment of land.
 
 Following the LG’s direction, DDA reworked its policy in May last year but this site is still not available for online booking. DDA officials don’t have a clear explanation. The land disposal department, which is responsible for framing of policy and allotment of land, says it has not received information regarding this site from the engineering division for making it online. “We will soon put the site under the online booking system,” said an official. 
 
 DDA officials told TOI that other organizations too have been given the land but booking is done only if their dates don’t clash with Mandal’s events.
 
 DDA’s north zone has been allotting this land to the Mandal since 2009 but the latter claims that they have been holding events here for the past 20 years. Kripa Sagar, media in-charge of Sant Nirankari Mandal, said: “We have been doing our samagams here for the past 20 years. There has been no dispute so far. We follow the procedure and all necessary payments have been made to DDA.”
 
 At a time when there is a huge demand for land in the city and Delhi government has been asking for land for its various projects, DDA is not utilizing this large chunk of land for development or for boosting its revenue. According to a DDA spokesperson, “So far, there is no development project planned at this site.”
 
