A taste of the good times can often make the bad times feel worse. Delhi-based Vishal Krishna (name changed), 42, knows that feeling well. The IIT, IIM and Ivy League executive was once a “rock star”, wooed by employers. He joined the telecom industry on its upward curve in the early 2000s. A product marketing specialist, he was a rare talent in a nascent industry where players like Nokia were scouring the talent market — from the information technology to consumer goods sectors — to grow their businesses. For Krishna, it was a dream run as he went about switching jobs and rising up the ladder.
 
  By 2011, the tide had begun to turn. Nokia lost its way and the telecom industry was seeing a churn. His last job was with a network equipment provider. Today, the stir in telecom has graduated into a shakedown. Employing 4 million (directly and indirectly), the industry could shed up to 30-40% of its workforce, thanks to consolidation blues and a technology onslaught.
  
  Rock star Krishna is jobless. His marketing   — of brick-and-mortar vintage — are not as relevant as they were a decade ago. He has had many health scares, including a heart attack. It is not as much the money — he has made a neat pile — as the feeling that he is no longer required that bothers him. “In telecom, the joke is that 40 is the cursed number. The moment you cross it (age or salary, in lakhs), life is ultra-tough,” says Jayanth Kolla, founder, Convergence Catalyst, a consultancy firm.
 
  Not too far away in the capital, Vipul Yadav (name changed), 23, is in the same boat as Krishna. Except in a very different world. A graduate from PGDAV College, Delhi, in 2015, he first applied for government jobs but with little luck. Last year he decided to apply to private companies. He landed a job with a monthly salary of Rs 8,000 near Greater Noida. But he decided against it. The commute itself would cost him over Rs 6,000, he reasoned. Fed up, he dropped out of the job market and now does “time pass”.
 
  Between unemployable Yadav and techdated Krishna lies India’s biggest problem, which is perhaps also its biggest paradox. When foreign investments are pouring in, the government’s balance sheet looks neat, inflation is low, interest rates have declined and the stock indices are buoyant, why isn’t the job market reflecting that positive sentiment?   for a populous young nation with a 470 million-odd workforce is a critical indicator, and at the moment that indicator is flashing a fiery red.
 
  Employment data in India is scarce, patchy and comes with a huge time lag. Yet, whatever data that is available confirm what job seekers feel. A recent TeamLease Employment Outlook Report for 2017 says the hiring outlook for April-September is down 6 percentage points from the October-March period. ManpowerGroup sees job prospects hitting a four-year low in the current quarter. It forecasts net employment outlook will decline to 18% in April-June as against 23% in January-March and 38% a year earlier.
  
  According to the government’s labour survey, between April and December 2016, India created just 2.31 lakh new jobs or (about 26,000 a month) in eight labour-intensive sectors, including garments, textiles and automobiles. This when every month 1 million Indians reach employable age. A 2014 CRISIL report forecasts that between 2011-12 and 2018-19, India will add only 38 million non-agri jobs as against 52 million between 2004-05 and 2011-12. As a result, says CRISIL, 12 million Indians will join the agri workforce between 2011 and 2019 as against a dip of 37 million in agri jobs in 2004-11. “We are just not creating enough jobs,” says DK Joshi, chief economist, CRISIL.
 
  
 
  When 92% of workers are employed in the poorly tracked informal sector, data is patchy and evidence at best is anecdotal. Infrastructure and road construction are among the most employment-intensive sectors. Rohit Kumar Singh, member (finance), National Highways Authority of India, says contracts for 16,000 km were awarded in 2016-17, double the figure of 2014-15. “In 2015-16 and 2016-17, we created 214 crore and 370 crore man-days respectively of direct and indirect employment.”
  
  Office space offtake is a good way to gauge business activity in India, says Ashutosh Limaye of real estate consulting firm JLL. Net absorption or leasing of office space which peaked in 2011 at 37 msf (million square feet) declined to 29.9 msf in 2014, 36.6 msf in 2015, 33.4 msf in 2016 and around 32.7 msf in 2017. Similarly, net construction of office space peaked at 44.4 msf in 2011, dipped to 29.4 in 2014 and then moved up to 38.5 in 2015 and 34.9 in 2016. “Between now and 2019, I expect both leasing and construction of office space to bounce back and register decent growth,” says Limaye.
 
 “The talk around jobless growth came up in the 2000s when the economy was growing at 8% but with a seemingly small increase in employment,” says Sher Verick, deputy director, International Labour Organisation India. According to a CII-BCG report, India’s employment elasticity —growth of jobs relative to GDP growth — has declined from 0.44 to 0.01 over the last decade. This lowering of employment elasticity is not necessarily bad news. “A country’s labour productivity must go up and employment elasticity must go down for it to grow fast. What happened in India (employment elasticity) was not unusual,” says Verick.
  
  The job crisis has been in the making for some time now. India’s   rate grew from 6.8% in 2001 to 9.6% in 2011, according to Census 2011 data. According to the Economic Survey, between 2004 and 2012, when India’s annual job growth stood at 0.5%, its workforce had grown by 2.9%. Data suggest that things began to get worse around UPA II when policy paralysis led to a clogged investment pipeline, stuck infrastructure projects, rising stressed assets and cost rationalisations even as global headwinds posed new challenges. More recently, demonetisation left its mark on the labour-intensive SMEs.
  
 If there is a crisis now in  , it’s only likely to get worse. Between 2011 and 2016, about 63.5 million new workers in the 20-35 age group may have joined the workforce. “The pace of young joining the workforce will only increase until 2030,” says Santosh Mehrotra, professor of economics, JNU.
  
  
 
  “Not jobs, India’s problem is low wages. It’s a good job, bad job problem,” says Manish Sabharwal, chairman, TeamLease Services, who is also part of a few committees of the government tackling workforce-related issues. To be sure, 118 million — or one in four workers — are the working poor or those whose incomes fall below the poverty line (if the poverty line is $1.25 per day on a purchasing-power parity basis). “To move from lower-income to higher-income nation, India needs to boost the productivity of its workforce,” says Verick.
  
 dds Frederico Gil Sander, senior country economist, World Bank India: “Urbanisation and structural transformation from agriculture to non-agriculture are proven paths towards higher productivity and overall economic development.”
  
  These are historical problem of a poor, illiterate nation transitioning out of an agri economy. “It is tragic that for 25 years we have not had growth in formal employment,” says Sabharwal. The Narendra Modi government’s recent moves should be seen in this context. “Formalisation, urbanisation, industrialisation and improving human capital are the only ways to tackle our job problem,” says Sabharwal.
  
  The Goods & Services Tax, curbs on cash economy, focus on digital transactions, access to banking and flexible labour laws are an attempt to nudge growth towards the formal sector. An Aadhaar-based robust, comprehensive and portable social security net is in the works for all workers — self-employed, part-time and casual. For the poor, the contribution will be supplemented by government outlays. This worker-focused — and not employer-dependent — social security net will be critical not just for the poor but also skilled workers as a sharing, platform-based economy grows on the back of freelance workers.
  
  Efforts are on to increase provident fund (PF) coverage. The mandatory salary threshold for PF contribution is likely to be raised from Rs 15,000 to upwards of Rs 20,000. Working with employers, a special drive pushed up PF enrolment by 49.39 lakh in January-March 2017. To make PF more worker-friendly, withdrawal norms are being made easier. From 10 million PF subscribers 10 years ago, India today has 50 million, almost 20% of the workforce, says Sabharwal.
  
  
 
  There are no quick answers to creating jobs but the government in its fourth year realises the gravity of the situation. The thrust, so far on institutional reforms, is now shifting to job creation. The PM wants all ministerial proposals submitted to the government to clearly state the number of jobs it could create. “This itself is a huge mindset shift. The PM seems to be on top of it.
  
  I used to struggle at the Planning Commission to shift attention to jobs; the whole focus was on GDP growth,” says Arun Maira, a former member of the now-defunct Planning Commission. What should be India’s path to employ its millions? Manufacturing may not be the answer.
  
  
  “China became the world’s factory. That story is over. India cannot export its way out of poverty,” says Nandan Nilekani, a former chairman of the Unique Identification Authority of India. At a time when global trade is slowing amid globalisation hurdles, India’s economic growth has to be domestic consumption-led and services-driven. Adds Sander: “Instead of trying to choose between emphasising manufacturing and services, it is best to realise that the boundaries between economic sectors have become more fluid with the emergence of global value chains and the fragmentation of production into individual tasks.”
  
  Prioritise investments in labour-intensive sectors, suggests Joshi of CRISIL. Such sectors would include tourism, handicrafts, leather, textiles and garments. Government think-tank NITI Aayog has suggested tax holidays for big job creators.
  
  Sudhir Dhingra, chairman of garment exporter Orient Craft, could not agree more. Despite the march of automation, the sector remains labour-intensive. Here’s the math: 1,000 sewing machines employ 2,500-3,000 employees and can produce work of Rs 10 crore a month. A majority of these workers are illiterate and unskilled who can be trained in three months and the sector is environmentfriendly. “Don’t just look at its export outlook but its job-creation potential. So far there has been no political will. We must find ways to make it competitive. Signing free trade agreements with the US and Europe should top that list,” says Dhingra.
  
  Gurgaon-based Magdali Kandulna, 21, was born in Simdega district in Jharkhand. She has studied till Class XII, is the daughter of a farmer and the first generation to take up a job. “I tried looking for a job back home but could not get any,” she says. Then she trained for two months at a training centre in Simdega where she learned tailoring.
  
  Last year Jharkhand released a textile policy to create jobs and signed an MoU with Orient Craft, promising it sops like capital investment and VAT subsidies. It also waived off stamp duty on 140 acres the company bought and the six training centres for youth it would set up. Kandulna was trained at one of these, after which she landed a job as a tailor in Orient Craft’s Gurgaon factory, earning Rs 12,000 a month. Since the company brought the girls in a group, she found it easier to relocate to an alien city. Experts are unanimous that a vast and diverse country like India must pursue a state-led approach to create jobs.
  
  In the digital platform-based gigs economy, companies will not be large monolithic employers, says Sangeeta Gupta, vice-president at industry lobby Nasscom. Uber is valued at over $50 billion, has over 1.5 million cabs and drivers, operates in 570 countries and has revenues of over $6.5 billion. Yet it employs just 6,700 employees.
  
 India — a land of cheap, unskilled workers and thousands of techies — must straddle the two ends of the labour spectrum to generate employment. Even as IT outsourcing faces heat, new opportunities are emerging. Snehil Gambhir is the managing director of JC Penney Services, an arm of the US-based retailer.
  
  The global innovation centre (GIC) it set up in Bengaluru in 2016 — the only one outside the US — has 315 staff members and by 2018 it will be over 1,100. “We are hiring aggressively and are anxious to leverage India’s strength (in digital, analytics, pricing, etc). Cost arbitrage is not our driver, talent is,” says Gambhir.
  
  On an average, at least one GIC is being set up every week in India by an MNC. But unlike IT services firms, these GICs will hire small and are unlikely to build training infrastructure. So the government and the industry must work to nurture a self-learning environment and groom talent. Nasscom will soon launch a tech-skilling platform that will curate and offer the best online programmes that are in demand. For fresh graduates, it will have a 12-week programme.
  
  “As a continental country, India’s development path is bound to be unique,” says Sander of World Bank.
