If you stand on her verandah, you can see the driveway of Prosenjit Chatterjee’s residence right across the road. This season, it’s bound to attract curious glances as both their films are clashing at the marquee. Tell   that and she breaks into peals of laughter. “God has given everyone different palettes. I don’t need to see what colours others have,” she tells us, lowering her guard. In a heart-to-heart chat, the actress talks about Cockpit, playing a pilot’s wife and why taking a flight will never be the same again. Excerpts: 

 
 Yes, it has affected me. The other day, Rane (husband  ) was taking a flight. I usually ask him and even my parents if they have boarded a flight or reached the destination; also, I call home to inform if my flight is on time... It’s a generic conversation. But that day, I started calling Rane way before he landed… I even prayed that he should call me immediately on reaching.
 
 
 Cockpit isn’t about a flight and a crash; there are many things involved. My character, Ria Rakshit’s world revolves around her husband, a pilot. Every moment, she is like, ‘Is he on the runway, is he flying now?’ Before the shoot, I would always have a relaxed flight, read or take a nap, thinking work will resume soon. Never for once did it occur to me what the pilot’s wife must be thinking. You are up in the air and anything can happen any moment. Ria is a north Kolkata girl, who runs an NGO; she clings to people she loves. She gets married to Dibyendu, who she loves a lot. She suffers from acrophobia (fear of heights), but gets married to a man whose only love is flying high. The crisis point in her life comes when she hears anything can happen to the plane her husband is on. It’s a touchy subject. Kamalda ( ) has delineated the characters really well.
 
 
 It was not a conscious decision to take a break. I was in my second year in college when I started out in films. I was studying psychology honours and was very happy in that zone. I had dreams of pursuing higher education. When the first film happened and another one after that, I was not sure about sticking around in this career. It was never my dream. Films started happening back to back and by God’s grace, it was smooth-sailing from the word go. In no time, I started living out of a suitcase. Before that, I was always the daddy’s girl and when I started travelling alone, my mother would pack my favourite food in my travel bags. Though I got everything at the shoot, she would send me food, giving me the feel that I was at a picnic. My dad, on the other dad, made sure that I took work seriously. He said, ‘This is a place you can’t take for granted.’ For years, I kept working and balancing my family life, which is my priority. Then, after a point, I realised I needed to take up more challenges, as both the individual that I am and the actress in me were growing. At that time the characters that kept coming to me were what I had done before. There is no fun when you don’t come out of your comfort zone. I started rejecting scripts. On my family front, I was having the best of time. I was travelling, went on treks… Also, I am hardly on social media. Then, one day, one of my aides said, “Didi, apnar last releaser ek bochhor hoye gechhe’. I didn’t realise as I was enjoying so much. I was high on life. Then Kaushikda (Ganguly) offered me Chhaya o Chhobi and Cockpit too happened.
 
 
 A director is the captain of the ship; he gets the vision of the film much before anyone else can. While I want to experiment with characters, I know a good director means I am in safe hands. These days, the DoP and the production house are also important as promotions are a must. With Kaushikda, this is my second venture. Years back, I did his Jackpot. Cockpit is my first film with Kamalda and then I will be working with Mainak for the first time. It is exciting as whenever there’s a new director, you start unfolding in ways that you don’t know are possible. It’s also fun to work with directors you already know. It’s easier on the sets as you know what the director wants. While doing Chhaya O Chhobi, he didn’t know one of his lines was a straight lift from my life. Years back, I had said I am a misfit; it was as if Tollywood was a puzzle where I was not fitting in.
 
 
 As an actress, I would love to know the marks given to me by the audience. In the beginning, I used to take reviews very seriously. Then, most reviews had different things to say. Be it my parents or Rane, they are extremely critical about my work. I used to take their feedback as they can tell me anything. At that point of time, I would interact with my fans on Sundays. I would ask what they liked and what they didn’t. The other day, I met a Class XI student who said he has been a fan of my acting since Class III! I feel my fans are also growing up much like me. For them, I did a film like Chhaya o Chhobi, where the vulnerability of an actress has been projected so well. About getting back to work after a gap, I am blessed that these people have waited. Forget about the audience, even partners don’t wait these days. A relationship goes kaput in a week and I was asked every day, ‘When is your next film releasing?’ My hiatus was a test of patience for the audience.
 
 
 Even Mumbai started this trend late. It’s a big change, which is still happening. As an actress, it’s great to see films like Kahaani and Queen. For me, each film is a story that should captivate the audience. I remember asking my thakuma how she met dadu for the first time at their wedding! For me this story bit is very important. I am happy that the audience is warming up to different subjects. When Maine Pyaar Kiya happened, everyone would do the same kind of films. This herd mentality got reflected hundreds of times, but finally we are getting different subjects. I would love to do films like Kahaani and Queen but for me, stories are of utmost importance.
 
 
 When   approached me, I was like wow! But then, just before Gangster, Murder had happened. There were particular scenes that I had reservations about. It’s not that the project slipped away, I had taken a conscious decision to not feature in it and I have no regrets. Kangana and I are poles apart, she has done very well for herself in her own right. After watching Gangster, I told Anurag that I loved Kangana, and he said, ‘Dekhli dekhli, tui korte partish’. Everyone is born with their destiny. As long as I have peace and happiness, I don’t regret. God has given everyone something or the other. I like concentrating on my life, I don’t peep into others’ lives.
 
 
 (Laughs out loud) Now that you said, yes, I can well peep into the life of the star called  ! But no, I have never done that. I am very content with my own things. Life passes by in a jiffy and I don’t want to know what others are doing. When I am doing a film, I do it wholeheartedly. Rukmini asked me the other day why I give time for promotions after 3 pm. That’s because papa and Rane leave for office in the morning and I like to see them off. That’s me. If I have a shoot, I am left with no choice. Otherwise, I like spending time with my mom-in-law, do my gym, get makeup done and start my day.
 
 
 That’s what I was telling Dev; in my entire life, I haven’t promoted a film this much! Honestly speaking, even before we started shooting, he told me that we would all take a flight together and promote the film mid-air! That it would come true is something I didn’t believe back then. Cockpit isn’t another flight film. It deals with turbulence, physical and emotional. Everyone who gets on board has some story to share — someone is taking a flight for the first time, another has some regrets, a third person’s ambition has been shattered… As they approach the moment of crisis, they become 
 a family.
 
 
 We have tried our best. Finally, every film is born with its own luck. All the Puja releases look lovely and I am sure the Bengali audience will have a rocking time. Before becoming an actress, on Puja days I would catch films in the afternoons with my jyethima, kakima, ma and cousins. We had time after anjali and before arati. Nowadays, I keep busy with the Puja at home. Also, films have become a lot of work. 
 It’s not just entertainment anymore. Rane sometimes tells me, ‘Did you notice the background music?’ I have also become like him. The nitty-gritty of films keeps me hooked.
 
