NAGPUR: The BJP-ruled government may be tom-toming about the works done by it, but the fact is that the city’s development was adversely affected by Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC)’s poor financial condition.

 The state government made things worse by abolishing local body tax (LBT) and then not adequately compensating the civic body. The NMC had demanded Rs65 crore per month but got only Rs41 crore.
 
 The Congress-NCP government first abolished Octroi and replaced it by LBT. This led to dip in NMC’s revenue and it had to use up its bank deposits of Rs150 crore after April 2013.
 
 Besides LBT’s abolition, poor rate of recovery of water tax, property tax, etc., was responsible for the mess. The civic body earned around Rs665 crore less revenue than estimated in the budget for 2015-16. The NMC ended the 2015-16 fiscal with revenue of Rs1,300 crore, while the budget was planned assuming that this figure would be Rs1,965 crore. Works worth Rs515 crore could not be taken up due to less revenue in 2015-16. The NMC had already carried forward liability of around Rs200 crore from 2014-15.
 
 The NMC’s administrative expense is around 55% of the total revenue. This means that only around Rs300 to Rs350 crore are left for developmental projects after meeting expenses of operation and maintenance.
 
 The city did not completely go to dogs because of chief minister  , who made   (NIT) pay for city’s development on NMC’s behalf. However, this was only for major projects and the local level works suffered due to funds crunch.
 
 Some of the major works affected due to funds crunch are Suresh Bhatt auditorium, NMC’s new administrative building, the 200 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) at Bhandewadi and mini STPs among others. Ward-level works were affected in 2016-17 as the NMC was unable to pay contractors on time. Consequently, the contractors delayed several works.
 
 The NMC’s poor financial condition also threatens to affect the ambitious Metro Rail project. The municipal body has refused to pay its cash share of Rs73 crore and wants   (NMRCL) to consider its land as its share. While Rs73 crore is a small percentage of the project cost, NMRCL will have difficulty in bridging the gap because it can’t take extra loan for one of the stakeholders not paying its share.
 
 NCP leader Vedprakash Arya blamed the state government for NMC’s poor financial condition. “The government should have taken steps to make NMC more autonomous. Instead, it made the civic body completely dependent on its largesse by abolishing LBT. The abolition of LBT was done to please traders at the cost of common citizens,” he said.
 
 Arya further slammed privatization of civic services for NMC’s financial condition. “The agreements between the private operators and NMC were completely biased in favour of the former. Consequently, the NMC suffered huge revenue losses over the years. OCW has failed to improve its collection efficiency and the NMC is paying the price,” he said.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke could not say much to defend his party. “It is true that we were scared when LBT was abolished, but Fadnavis adequately compensated us. He and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari made NIT pay for city’s development. It is true that employees are not getting salaries on time but in other municipal corporations staffers are unpaid for over six months. NMC’s finances would improve significantly once goods and services tax (GST) rolls out,” he said.
 
 
