Seen mostly during Dasara  , the bright and colourful gombe or Dasara   that are usually tucked away for the rest of the year, are now adorning homes in namma city with different themes. Keeping in mind the tradition and the culture, many people do go the traditional route and display these dolls on nine steps during the nine days of Navratri. However, there are many who are now displaying these gombes keeping in mind certain themes...

 
 
 Take Veena Ravindranath, vice principal of CB Bhandari Jain College, who has displayed around 6000 dolls in her home this year. She has depicted 18 days of the Kurukshetra war in the form of these dolls. “My family and I have been putting up theme-based Gombe Habba every year and this year, my children took the initiative to put up a depiction of the Kurukshetra war. This year, it is like a gallery with proper descriptions and scenes,” she says.
 
 Veena, who takes two months to prepare the entire setup, opens her home to the public, who can come and see the dolls during the festivities. “It takes about two months for us to prepare each theme. Since we wanted to depict the Kurukshetra war, we had to do proper research, read a lot of books and search for a lot of material online. We cannot get the facts wrong,” she says. Usually her family chooses mythological themes every year and dedicate themselves completely to this. “For a few days, all of us put our social engagements aside. Since we receive a lot of visitors every year, the expectations are high and that’s the wow factor for us as well,” she says.
 
 
 
 Similarly, Ganjam Mantapa in Basvanagudi this year has close to 1,000   dolls on display with different themes. “Every year, we have a display of traditional dolls. This year, however, we have tried to replicate the four and a half kilometre route of the Jumbo Savari that takes place in Mysuru during Dasara festivities. We have landmark buildings like the KR Circle, Mysuru Medical College and other buildings on display,” says Satish Vasishta, a member of the team behind the whole setup. The entire route of the Jumbo Savari as it used to take place during 1902-1940 is on display this time.
 
 While the Gombe Habba is all about tradition and culture, people today are taking up modern practices and are inculcating it into their displays. “We also have a display of brides from five states — Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharastra and Kerala — in the form of dolls,” says Satish. This is done in order to get in touch with the culture of other states. The mantapa is also promoting handmade dolls made by artists. “We have a space allocated for old Mysuru- style handmade dolls made by an artist,” adds Satish.
 
 
 
 This opportunity is also used by many to bring out their creative side. Harini Nagendra, author and professor of sustainability, this year has represented four different religions through her gombe display, celebrating the country’s true strength in diversity. “India has always been a land of great diversity. Our diversity is our strength, but in recent times the divisiveness and violence around our differences are horrifying. Gombe habba is a wonderful way to celebrate this diversity and recall some attention to its beauty and character. This diversity is what will ensure the strength and resilience of India. It’s just a celebration of this idea,” says Harini.
 
