ABU DHABI: “Marhaba!” beamed a visibly happy   Ahmed as she waved both hands, blew kisses at the crowd and winked at her doctors when wheeled into a roomful of people at the Burjeel Hospital waiting for her first public appearance in Abu Dhabi.

 Eman’s mood and mobility on Wednesday stood in stark contrast to three months ago when the 36-year-old Egyptian, once labeled as the heaviest woman in the world, lay strapped to her stretcher alone with her thoughts as she gaped timorously at an unrestrained mass of onlookers, while being taken out of Mumbai’s Saifee Hospital.
 
 Eman’s sister, Shaimaa Semil says, “Eman is very, very well. In a few months, she will be even better.” 
 
 Despite Eman’s brisk progress, her weight continues to remain a mystery. 
 
 “There are two topics we want to keep aside for now – Eman’s weight and the expenditure,” said Shamsheer Vayalil, founder and managing director of VPS Healthcare that runs the Burjeel Hospital. “Her willingness to lead a normal life is making it easy for us and we want her to become the face of our battle against UAE’s swelling obesity problem where 66% men and 60% of women are obese,” said Vayalil.
 
 Grooving to Egyptian music on her bed, playing with a ball, dressing up in ruby red – Eman’s new life is suddenly full of wonder, yet defined by her old burdens. She still needs huge amounts of medical care before she can free herself from her obesity. A multi-disciplinary team of 20 doctors and dieticians looking after Eman has drawn up a three-stage model for Eman’s recovery. 
 
 “Mid-August we will attempt liposuction and abdominoplasty to remove excess skin which should enable Eman to sit on an electronic wheelchair,” said Yassin Ibrahim M. El-Shahat, chief medical officer, Burjeel. 
 
 Nehad Nabil Halawa, deputy medical director of the hospital, said “One of the problems in treating Eman has been a singular approach using one’s own area of expertise instead of a multidisciplinary approach. In   an endocrinologist and an orthopaedic doctor was treating her separately while in India, she was looked at just as an obesity case.”
 
 
