KOCHI: In the absence of a specific law, state government cannot impose a blanket ban on   or courses by issuing executive orders, the high court has held. 

 The ruling by a single bench of the court was after considering a total of 55 petitions filed by college managements questioning a government order issued on August 22 last year banning opening of new arts and science colleges and courses. Various universities had declined affiliations to start new colleges and course based on the government's order.
 
 A perusal of the notification issued by the government shows that there is a blanket restriction to start new colleges and courses in the aided/unaided sector, the court pointed out.
 
 University statutes that stipulate that the view of the government must be sought for granting affiliation for new colleges or courses can only be applied on a case-by-case basis and not as a general policy, the court said.
 
 The judgment said, "I am of the view that there cannot be a blanket restriction being imposed by the government. It is argued on behalf of the state that the University Act itself amounts to a law, which imposes restriction in starting new colleges/courses and therefore when the views of the government is sought for, government can formulate a policy, which is reflected in the impugned order."
 
 "Of course, the University Act and the Statutes framed there under apparently is a 'law' in which the role of the government is only to express its views. The expression of view cannot hinder the citizen's fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. If the Government has a case that there is no necessity for a college in a particular area, definitely government can frame a law in that regard....But there is no such law as matters stand today. By expressing a view and giving a blanket direction that no colleges could be started and when it is acted upon by the university, it clearly amounts to infringement of fundamental right of a citizen," it added.
 
 The universities were ordered to reconsider the applications for affiliations and pass orders within a month.
 
