CHARMINAR: There was a time when one could hire a bicycle in the city on an hourly basis just to save money by not having to get into a bus. All of that, on the face of it, appears to have changed. Not all, really. 

  S Shyamlal, proprietor of Srinivas Cycle Taxi at   cross roads, is still in the business of renting out bicycles. There is another shop at   in the city where bicycles are hired from morning till evening.   has six bicycles in his shop. He has still got that old register bought several years ago in which he makes entries. Bicycles continue to be a common sight in  , though hardly anyone uses them as a means of transport elsewhere. One might find the occasional cyclist on a stylish cycle riding on the roads but the bicycle, which was the main means of transport, is understandably gone off the roads. Not in old city, though. 
 
  If milkmen in other parts of the city still use their old favourite Chetak scooter to deliver milk, in some places in old city, the milkman still comes on the bicycle. If Shyamlal continues to run his shop, bicycles sure must be in demand. Right? Wrong. 
 
  "Everyone owns a bike. If not a bike, a bicycle can be bought for 5,000," he said. Shyamlal has reasons for continuing to open his 'cycle taxi' shop everyday despite the fact that there is no demand. "I am known as 'cycle Shyamlal'. If I close down this shop, which I have been running for the last four decades, what people would refer to me as?" he asked. 
 
  That is a predicament. Once upon a time, he owned 50 cycles and people would hire them. Not anymore. There is, however, demand for his bicycles during some festivals. 
 
  At another shop in the Old City, which he knows about, he said it is booming business. Labourers and fruit-sellers hire a cycle from the shop, which has 60 cycles and three mechanics. Hiring of bicycles by the 'common man' is a thing of the past but riding a bicycle has not gone out of fashion in the old city. Along with the motorised means of transport, a considerable number of cyclists vie for space. They have their own advantages. There's no checking of licence by the police. 
 
  They do not have a wear a helmet. But there was a time few decades ago that it was a must for bicycles to have a front light and a bell. 
 
