Chandigarh: The public health wing of the MC is all set to streamline the system of supplying   in the city. For this, around 16,000 houses of the city will soon have water meters, as the public health wing of the Municipal Corporation Chandigarh has kicked off an exercise to lay the water supply pipelines at more than 12 locations in the city. Though in some of the areas earlier the pipelines were inside the house, these are now being brought outside the area of the house.

 Significantly, earlier all such houses have been either getting the water supply through the stand posts. Since majority of such houses are situated in the economic weaker section (EWS) colonies, the exercise is being planned to provide water supply through a proper manner.
 
 “This development is crucial for us as there is a huge gap between the expenditure to supply water to the residents and revenue generation. Therefore, the said exercise will not only provide the financial boost to the civic body, but will also help keep a check over wastage of water.”
 
 According to information, the municipal corporation has been spending around Rs 125 crore to supply water to the residents of the city, but manages to earn a revenue of around Rs 70 crore from them. Significantly, as per the public health wing of the civic body, it has given around 1.6 lakh water connections throughout the city under various segments — residential, commercial, institutional, etc. and with the inclusion of the abovesaid houses, this number will increase considerably.
 
 As per information, there are around 16 tenders, which have been advertised to lay down the pipelines, of which work in some areas has already been finished while work in some other areas is still left. “Once the pipelines are laid, connections will be given to individual houses,” said an official.
 
  Recently around 5,000 residents of the Chandigarh, who have been receiving water bills on an average basis, received double water charges. The public health wing of the MC’s engineering department took the step due to faulty water meters of residents and because of this bills were being given on an average basis. Significantly, the number is going be increased substantially as bimonthly water bills are being distributed cycle wise in different areas of the city.
 
 
