MUMBAI: India's first currency for cashless shopping, the railway-ticket-sized booklet of meal coupons, will cease to be legal tender next year:   and Ticket Restaurant, whose prepaid meal vouchers form part of the perquisites and rewards at many companies, must go digital by end 2017.
 
  "We are already in the process of digitising our acceptance mechanism and moving our paper-based meal vouchers to plastic cards. Of the 40,000 outlets that accept Sodexo vouchers, 30,000 have already started accepting our magnetic plastic cards," said Stephane Michelin, chief executive officer,   and  .
  
  The Reserve Bank of India guidelines for prepaid payment instruments (PPIs) require all meal-voucher companies to switch over to electronic formats by the end of the year, creating immediate expansion opportunities for new technology firms such as   as the legacy operators move to plastic money.
  
  Sodexo has tied up with point of sales deploying entities such as  ,   and  , whose terminals will accept Sodexo meal cards besides recognising purchases through MasterCard or Visa instruments.
  
  "We currently have about 20 lakh Sodexo users who are mostly employees with more than 10,000 corporates that use our services. We are in the process of shifting our entire client base to the electronic form and will finish the process within the prescribed deadline," said Michelin.
  
  Another paper-based meal-voucher company,  , also said it is in the process of moving to a digital platform and would complete the switch within the deadline.
  
  "We have converted 60% of the business volume on to digital meal cards and this shift has helped us add 1,200 corporate clients," said Johann Vaucanson, managing director at Edenred India, which issues Ticket Restaurant vouchers.
  
  While Sodexo has the largest share of the meal-voucher market, it is being challenged by new-age companies such as Zeta that operate in a paperless mode and offer both mobile wallet services and plastic cards.
  
  "This is a change long due. It serves the broader interest of the country by avoiding an anonymous parallel currency. This will have a positive impact on the rate of adoption of Zeta," said Ramki Gaddipati, cofounder of Zeta.
  
  Zeta works in collaboration with RBL Bank and is supported by Bhavin Turakhia, a Mumbai-based serial entrepreneur. It has around 600 corporate clients, and is planning to leverage technology to grab a greater market share.
  
  "A digital solution demands far higher accuracy, transparency, a very different customer support approach, and a well-thought-through security model. Every aspect of the operation is very different. I think all old players need to adapt to the new digital wave," said Gaddipati.
  
  While switching over to the electronic format from a paper-based product is not a complicated process and companies are switching over, the bigger challenge will emerge in the shape of servicing customers and managing retail outlets, industry experts say.
