BISHENPUR: This election season has seen its fair share of shifting allegiances and bitter battles between former associates. The most bitter fight of the season, however, is that between two brothers. 

 Battling out their sibling rivalry in the Bishenpur constituency are Congress commerce and industries minister Govindas Konthoujam and his younger brother Konthoujam Krishnakumar Singh, whom BJP has fielded. While Govindas is an alumnus of Ramkrishna Mission, Narendrapur, Krishnakumar is a product of Imphal's Sainik School.
 
 Govindas, 53, admits family differences led to this rivalry. "This is not a political fight. It's a familial one," he said at his house at  . 
 
 Unlike his brother, who focuses more on state-level issues, 51-year-old Krishnakumar insisted his election campaign revolves around local issues. "My aim is to improve the   in the constituency and improve farmers' lives," he said. Residents of the Ningthoukhong locality are conflicted, not admitting openly who they support. The houses of the two Konthoujam brothers are only a few metres from each other. Going on a door-to-door campaign a few metres away from Govindas's house, the younger Konthoujam admits that relatives and neighbours are emotionally charged about this election. 
 
 "The family is with me," he says, however, adding that he had worked for his brother in earlier elections despite differences. Krishnakumar attributed his confidence to his party's standing in the state. "I am confident of a victory as there is a BJP wave in all of Manipur," he said.
 
 Govindas, too, feels victory will be his. God will bless me again, he says. With BJP's active social media machinery at work against his party, Govindas is often the man who hits back on behalf of his party. "We are also putting out many advertisements in newspapers," the minister said. BJP's propaganda will not work, he said. "Their main disadvantage is that the party's nexus with NSCN (I-M) is now out in the open ... The voters now clearly know BJP's game plan. They are hand-in-glove with the outfit that wants to break Manipur," he explains the reason behind his confidence.
 
 "Some Naga Congress leaders left the party just before the polls due to threats and pressure from Naga militants," said Govindas. The main blunder the BJP-led government in the Centre had made, he said, was allowing the NSCN (I-M) and its allies to regroup.
 
 Though Prime Minister   clarified that there is nothing in the Naga framework agreement that can threaten Manipur's territorial integrity, it may not have much impact in rural areas. Congress had launched its attack against the party and its motives much earlier, putting BJP on the backfoot on both issues - the framework agreement and the United Naga Council-sponsored economic blockade.
 
 In the fray for Bishenpur are four candidates, but the primary contest is between the Konthoujams. The two others contesting the seat are Thokchom Bindasakhi Devi of   and Khundrakpam Bhabeshwor Singh of LJP. The real electoral battle for Bishenpur will all depend on the six villages that surround Bishenpur and Ningthoukhong municipal towns. Of the nearly 30,000 voters, these two towns account for 17,000 votes. The remaining 13,000 votes are spread across the six villages of Thinungei, Toupokpi, Upokpi, Potsangbam, Ngachou and Kwa-siphai. These villages will seal the fate of the two Konthoujam brothers. 
 
