AHMEDABAD: Several people who had ordered computer hard disks of 3, 5 and 8 terabyte capacity from an online shop at throwaway prices, were shocked to find toothbrushes, small Chinese   and detergent powder in the parcels delivered to them. With no official complaint lodged about the cheating, it is believed that customers across the state were duped by this company which had put up its product on an   portal.

 Lured by the attractive price tag, Harshil Patel, an internet expert working with the cyber cell of the city crime branch, was among the many people who ordered the product.
 
 Patel said normally such hard disks cost around Rs 9,000 in the market. “It was hard for me to resist such an offer. I ordered five of them. However soon, like many others, I got the message from the seller that the orders had been cancelled,” Patel said. It is normal for such orders to be cancelled and customers are not concerned as payments are made on delivery. 
 
 “The game started when courier boys knocked at customers’ doors with parcels,” he said. “Many thought it could be the hard disks. As the parcels are not allowed to be opened unless payment is made, many customers paid Rs 2999 only to see toothbrushes and LeD lights in the parcel instead of hard disks,” Patel said.
 
 Zeeshan Mansuri, a saree trader, had ordered 4 such hard disks. “I smelt something fishy when a message popped up on my cellphone regarding a parcel dispatched for me even after my order was cancelled,” he said. “I did not accept the parcel when it arrived.” 
 
 
 
 
 Harshil Patel, a cyber expert, said such companies which sell their products on reputed online portals accept payment in  . “They first book the order and, later, they send you a message about cancellation of the order,” he said. “As the fraudulent sellers already have the digital data of the customer, they engage another courier company and send the parcel containing rubbish. The family of the customer, unaware of the cancellation of the order, pays the courier boy who also is unaware of the contents of the parcel. When the parcel is opened, toothbrushes and other rubbish tumble out,” Patel said.
 
 
 
 Though no official complaint has been filed regarding the online fraud, the city police’s cyber cell is tracking the IP addresses from which the advertisements were floated on social media. Cyber cell experts are also tracking the source of mass messages being sent by the company, regarding cancellation of orders.
 
 
