While reports of   creative director of   ditching   to come up with a new show on   is doing the rounds, the former has gone ahead to deny the news. She has rubbished the news stating that it is a figment of someone's imagination.
 
  In an exclusive conversation with the Timesofindia.com,   shared, "Yes I too just heard some strange stories about me launching a new show with  . There are no such developments. It's all a figment of some over active imagination. We have all been a great team and worked well. In fact, I share a very special bond with not just Sunil, but all of them.   and I fight like siblings over creative issues and I always consider him like a brother that I don't have. They all have looked out for me as my family. Any plans for the future (which presently are on hold) will be taken with their guidance cause of the mutual respect we have for each other. But considering the present scenario I dont think anyone is in the space of planning as these false reports suggest. The sad part is no one has even called to verify the story but has based it on assumptions of an unknown source. I wish credibility of these sources was checked. It's
  not fair to keep feeding fans with false information especially at such sensitive times."
  
  When asked why she is not shooting for The   and about the new team hired in place of her, she said, "I've just got back from my break. I will share my plans soon Kapil has a team in place with a few new members joining in. They have shot the last few episodes. Be it the celebrity line up or content. It is extremely encouraging that you are not truly missed and that has given me time to finally spend with my family who felt pretty ignored all these years."
  
  For the uninitiated,   fought with co-actor Sunil on a while the entire team was returning after performing stage shows in Melbourne and Sydney. Kapil under the influence of alcohol used foul language in front of the women in an   flight, when Sunil tried to calm him down he started abusing and also hurled a shoe at him.  , then Sunil, Ali Asgar, Chandan Prabhakar and   have stopped shooting for the show. Preeti, who was also present in the flight went on pre-planned family holiday immediately after the incident and has been on a break.
  
  As none of them are shooting for the show rumours of Kapil's alleged ex girlfriend Preeti making a new show on the same channel with Sunil Grover started doing the rounds.
  
  
 
  
  
