MUMBAI:  , the ousted chairman of  , was removed as a director of the company by a majority vote of shareholders on Monday, thus stripping him of the only position he had held on to in the group after his resignation from the boards of various group entities.

 The extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of   Sons held at the company headquarters had but one agenda: Mistry's removal as director. Tata trusts and group companies which hold the controlling stake as well as sections of the Tata clan voted in favour of the resolution. 
 
 However, a few members of the family abstained. Mistry himself stayed away but, through a proxy, voted against the resolution.  's brother Jimmy Tata, Piloo Minocher Tata (wife of a grandnephew of group founder Jamsetji Tata) and her children — Jimmy M Tata and Vera Farhad Choksey — were among those who abstained. 
 
 Noel Tata (step-brother of Ratan and Jimmy Tata and brother-in-law of Cyrus Mistry) and his mother Simone Tata backed the resolution which was moved by four Tata Sons shareholders: JRD Tata Trust, Tata Education Trust, Tata Social Welfare Trust and R D Tata Trust. The MK Tata Trust (Piloo Tata is a trustee here), Maharaja Virendra Singh Chauhan,  , Tata International and Tata Investment Corporation were the other shareholders who abstained.
 
 Maharaja Virendra Singh Chauhan owned one share of Tata Sons but after he passed away, the ownership of this share along with some of his other assets are currently under dispute. The three Tata companies mentioned above could not vote as the law does not permit subsidiaries to participate in any resolution concerning their parent. In short, about 2.6% (10,367 shares) of total voting rights was not enfranchised.
 
 Mistry and his family hold 18.4% (74,352 shares) in Tata Sons.With Mistry voted out, it brings to an end his family's decades-old representation on the board.
 
 Mistry became a director of Tata Sons in 2006 after his father retired from the company. Though the family does not have a right to a board seat, it was given a non-executive directorship to acknowledge its sizeable stake in the Tata Sons.Sources close to Mistry said that the family has no plans to sell their shares despite the latest development. Firms that represent Mistry had sought to stall the EGM by filing a petition before the quasi-judicial National Company Law Tribunal citing oppression of minority shareholder rights.
 
  After dismissal of the petition, an appeal was made before an appellate bench, which refused to stall the meeting. However, the case continues at the tribunal where it will come up for hearing later this month.
 
 Noel Tata and Simone Tata did not attend Monday's meeting but voted through proxies. Noel was seen as a contender for chairman's post at Tata Sons after the board ousted Mistry. In the immediate aftermath of Mistry's controversial ouster, Noel made his presence felt at the shareholder meetings called to remove Mistry or Nusli Wadia from boards of listed companies. 
 
 Wadia was an independent director in three Tata firms and was removed for his stand on the issue of Mistry's removal. Buzz is that Noel may now be inducted on the board of Tata Sons.
 
 Currently , there are 11 directors on the board of Tata Sons. With Ratan Tata stepping down on February 20, there is room to induct one more individual on the board.
 
 Tata Sons is 66% owned by a clutch of charitable trusts chaired by Ratan Tata. Besides Tata Trusts, Tata Group companies including Tata Chemicals, Tata Steel, Indian Hotels, Tata Power, Tata Global Beverages and Tata Motors hold stake in Tata Sons.All these entities backed the resolution to remove Mistry .
 
 “The shareholders of Tata Sons at the EGM held Monday , passed, with the requisite majority, a resolution to remove Cyrus Mistry as a director of Tata Sons,“ the company said in a statement.
 
