Staying true to its tech-savvy image, the city rates pretty highly when it comes to using both augmented and   to increase customer experiences across various sectors. Be it real estate, home décor, online shopping or paints, companies are making the most of the availability of such technology — while virtual reality (VR) reconstructs a 3D version of the real world,   (AR) superimposes computer-generated images on a user’s view of the real world. 
Sriram Ganesh, CEO and co-founder of a startup that provides AR solutions, says, “Although AR is in a nascent stage all over the world, it is being used in the city. VR, on the other hand, is a more matured   when compared to AR. Right now, both have a lot of potential for marketing products, leaving nothing to prospective buyers’ imagination and giving them a feel of the end products in real life.” As for the use of such tech in Bengaluru, it rates highly in comparison to cities not only in India, but in the world as well.  , co-founder of an AR-VR startup, says, “Having researched and worked with Tier I and II real estate companies in India and other countries, I’ve seen that the application of such technology in Bengaluru is the best in the country, beating Mumbai and Hyderabad, where these are also prevalent. In this regard, Bengaluru is as good as  , and much better than even Dubai.” 
 Rajiv Srivatsa, COO of a Bengaluru-based online furniture store that provides AR services, adds, "AR and VR also helps in building a strong relationship with customers. How? Even if we were to assume that sales might drop when customers know for sure that a few products aren’t what they’re looking for, we’d still be losing prospective customers for the right reason — that our product did not match their need or taste."
 The pros are obvious, but there’s a lot left to be desired for. Niranjan Tadinki, Marketing VP of a city-based construction company, says, “Both need to be more user-friendly. VR often gives users nausea and headaches, while there are still gaps in AR projections versus the actual reality. Bad experiences will prejudice users against the tech. Besides, VR headsets are quite expensive.”
