There is one startling statistic that illustrates the existential crisis facing   in UP — there is not one seat in the entire state where the party won in 2012, led in 2014 and won again in 2017. 

 Considering the party won 80 seats in the last assembly polls when it was on a downhill slope, you would expect most of the 19 it won this time would overlap with that list, but there are just three seats from the northern part of Poorvanchal that it managed to retain.
 
 There is just one seat where BSP won in last assembly polls and led in 2014 and another where it led in the   polls and won this time. Both of these are in   district.
 
 The story of   is not different. Barring Rampur Karkhana in   district, there is no seat it won or led in all three polls. There is just one other seat that it won last time that it has now retained — Tamkuhi Raj in Kushinagar district. 
 
 There are two seats in   district — Tiloi and Jagdishpur — where Congress won in 2012 and led in the LS polls. Six of the seven it now won were those in which it had led in 2014, including two from Rae Bareli district.
 
 Contrast this with BJP, which can count 40 seats where it won in 2012 and now and led during the 2014 polls. 
 
 Considering it won only 47 seats in 2012, it says something about its ability to hold on to what it won. Also important is that these 40 seats came from across the state, 14 from Poorvanchal, nine from the West, seven each from central UP and   and three from Bundelkhand. 
 
 Incidentally, eight of these 40 spread across Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Bijnor, Meerut, Bahraich and Firozabad have substantial Muslim populations.
 
 SP too seems to have a stronger ability to hold on to seats than BSP. There were 18 seats where it won or led in all three polls. Not one of these 18 was in the extreme western part or Bundelkhand region, or even from the southern part of Poorvanchal. 
 
 Seven of them were from the Rohilkhand belt and another seven from central UP, the rest from the Azamgarh-Ballia belt. Only six of the 18 were seats with Muslim populations of over 25%.
 
