AJMER: Shiv Kumar, a resident of  , had a kidney malfunction.His   took him to a   for treatment. Result: On being admitted to a  , later at a critical stage, he died.

 The incident came to light after the family members of the youth filed an FIR against the tantrik at Biguod police station in Bhilwara district.
 
 This is not a lone incident of a tantrik cheating people with false hope in the state.Six cases of children being branded with hot iron rods on the advice of a tantrik have been reported from Bhilwara and Ajmer in the last two months.
 
 In fact, on January 30, a three-month-old girl had to be rushed to Mahatma Gandhi hospital in Bhilwara after she was branded with a hot iron rod by `tantriks' to cure her illness. Just days before this, a two-year-old girl died after being branded with hot iron in Bhilwara, this again on the advice of a tantrik.
 
 Speaking on the latest incident which claimed the life of Shiv Kumar, a resident of Barundani village in Bhilwar, the police said they have registered a case against the tantrik and are looking for him.
 
 “A relative (of victim Shiv Kumar) told the family members that there was a tantrik near their village who could cure the ailment,“ said the police. On his advice, the family members took Shiv Kumar to the tantrik.
 
 According to the police, the tantrik talked of some spirits punishing Shiv Kumar, after which he started his `tantrik rituals' and assured the family members that all would be fine in 15 days. According to the police, the accused put hot iron rod on Shiv Kumar's stomach because of which his condition went from bad to worse.
 
 Earlier this week, Shiv Kumar was taken to a hospital in Ahmedabad where he died due to kidney failure, “It is that tan trik who made the condition of my brother worse. We want action against him,“ the brother of the deceased was quoted as saying by the SHO of Biguod police station, Mahveer Parsad.
 
 “Post mortem has been done and we are looking in to the case, the police said.
 
 Tantrik active in villages There is a large network of tantriks active in the rural part of Ajmer-Bhilwara border region, sources tell TOI. Besides, fake doctors are active in these two districts, but medical and health department claim that situation is under control, the sources say .
 
 Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) of Bhilwara doctor J C Jeengar said they have started an awareness operation in the district.
 
