GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat government today launched “Smart Gujarat for New India Hackathon” as well as also launched   through WiFi in 23 out of 110 institutions and universities.

 Chief Minister Vijay Rupani distributed grant-in-aid cheques worth Rs. 440 lakh to 23 organizations including 11 universities and also honored with awards winning students of summer innovation challenge Under the Student Start-Up Innovation Policy. The mind set of people has changed that only Government can solve the problems of people, he added. Youth can also think on such question now through technology and can give accurate preventive measures through innovative ideas. The new experiment Hackathon will come to be true in the coming days towards the new direction with the involvement of people for solutions and suggestions. We will have to remove the situation that is been faced by many people even after seven decades of independence. The use of technology and innovative ideas will bring solutions to the questions through such competitions.
 
 In Gujarat, there is a list of 206 Problems in this Heckathon which will be solved the youth through their own intellectual skills. Everyone comes ahead with their own intelligence and prove their power without any discrimination of poverty or higher or lower class, he added. Rupani said that this young generation has the power to challenge but the previous Government has made them helpless and had no opportunities. We gave opportunities to the youth who have not been encouraged since years by increasing seats in 55 different universities, and increasing about 125 lakh seats in engineering colleges.
 
 Rupani said the youth of Gujarat became a communicator of this transformation and appealed to make Gujarat more prosperous with its innovative ideas, social and humanitarian measures. In this program, Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama called youth to be a pioneer of developmental change. He said the State Government has decided to distribute tablets to three lakh students at a token cost of Rs. 1000. Not only that, the amount of 30 crore received from the students will be used as “Digital Education Development Fund”. If we want development than there is no relaxation without adopting science and technology. It is the state government's motive to encourage youth to take action to identify the problem and to try to solve it with the help of technology. Today to solve problems we need innovative ideas and technology has given the world in the hands of youth.
 
 On this occasion, Principal Secretary of   Anuj Sharma gave the outline of this program. Minister of State for Education Department Nanu Vanani, Chief Secretary J. N. Singh, vice Chancellor Professors of various universities, Researchers and students in majority remained present. On this occasion, a book titled SSIP guideline was also released by the Chief Minister and the dignitaries present.
 
