BHOPAL: As Indian railways releases a rate list of standard meal packets, tea, coffee and breakfast, complaints flood DRM’s twitter handle for overcharging and vendors holding illegal stalls at railway station.

 A complaint, about vendor stall asking for Rs 20 for a water bottle at platform No. 2 of   tweeted on Saturday, was followed by complaint of an illegal stall selling food items at platform number 6 at Itarsi station, which hardly has any designated food stall by Bhopal railway division.
 
 According to DRM’s twitter handle, there are two or three complaints about overcharging by vendors each day. The number will go up according to a complaint register of RPF police officials.
 
 “We forward overpricing complaints to commercial department. Illegal vendors are booked under Section 144 of Railway Act,” said RPF Bhopal TI 
 
 These rates will be applicable for mail, express and platforms. If vendors are found fleecing passengers, they can file complaint about them on either twitter or helpline numbers.
 
 “We have been given instructions to deal with complaints on priority,” said a senior official. 
 
 A passenger talking to TOI,said, “I asked for a water bottle on Saturday. They first ask you to pay Rs 20. When you resist and say that Rs 15 is written. They behave as if we have stolen something from their stall. After some time, they reluctantly say okay pay what is written. This behaviour is weird.” The list was made public on the website of Indian railways after a passenger on   raised a stink over it. 
 
 According to new list, for a 150ml of “standard tea”, a passenger is supposed to pay Rs 5 only. For tea with a tea bag, it’s Rs 7 at stations and on trains. For a cup of coffee, it is Rs 7.
 
 In case of water bottles, there are maximum complaints at stations under Bhopal division. It costs Rs 15, for 1 litre of bottle and Rs 10 for 500 ml water. Rail Neer is banned at many stations under West Central Rilways. In such a situation, local brands are available for sale.
 
 For ‘Janta meal’ packets, vendors are not supposed to charge more than Rs 15.
 
