VADODARA: People expect gifts from their near and dear ones on their birthdays. But Wednesday turned out to be a unique day for M S University when it received a birthday gift from its best-known face. 

 As he turned 81, Lord Bhikhu Parekh, member of UK’s   and former vice-chancellor (VC) of MSU on Wednesday gifted his rich collections of books – running into 6,500 – to MSU where he had once served as lecturer and later as VC. 
 
 MSU too celebrated the occasion by a cutting cake. 
 
 ‘Bhikhu Parekh Library’ – the library which MSU has instituted to house the books donated by Parekh was inaugurated at MSU’s   and International Studies. It now houses the books that the eminent political theorist had collected over the course of last 57 years since he went to England in 1959. 
 
 Parekh’s collection is rare in many ways. It includes those books which he had purchased while authoring his own books on Mahatma Gandhi or Karl Marx. For each of the 11 major books that he has written in all these years, Parekh had bought around 200 to 300 books devoted to it. 
 
 The other part of the collection is that of around 1,000 books that eminent authors had sent to Parekh with personal inscription out of courtesy or seeking his comments. 
 
 Thirdly, there are 11 books that he has authored, ten that he had edited and 120 articles that he has penned. 
 
 Parekh was fond of buying first edition of books and has collection of around 25 such books each of them costing around 1,000 to 1,500 pounds. 
 
 For instance, his personal collection includes the 1861 edition of ‘Das Kapital’.
 
 “While I have donated books in my collection to MSU, I will donate my personal and professional correspondence with great philosophers to   in Britain. I am still not sure what I will do with the private papers that I have whether they are regarding my correspondence as VC or my correspondence with Prime Minister, home minister, government and ministers,” said Parekh, who has also served as chairman for the commission for racial equality in Britain. “I may split it up.” 
 
 As a return gift, all that Parekh expects from MSU is that the university will create a centre of intellectual excellence surrounding the library. 
 
 “Gujarat presently has no centre of excellence in any field. Hope, the university establishes an internationally reputed centre devoted to study of certain issues,” said Parekh, who also broke down while addressing a gathering at the institute.
 
