LUCKNOW: Lok Sabha Speaker  , who is an eight-time MP, while calling chief minister   a ‘yoddha sanyasi’ for his never-say-die spirit, exhorted the   not to have a false belief that by winning an election they have become leaders. “This was the mistake even I committed when I became the MP for the first time, but soon some senior party workers made me realise that she was only a people’s representative,” Mahajan said.

 Speaking at the closing session of two-day enlightenment course for the first-time MLAs, Mahajan went on to give many valuable tips to the participants. “The moment one makes the mistake of treating oneself as the leader after winning election for the first time, one fails to gauge the problems of the people and loses connect,” Mahajan said and added that once an   believes that he is the people's representative, he takes up the issues related to the people.
 
 Continuing to praise Yogi, who is also a five the five-term MP, Mahajan adviced the MLAs to take lessons in sincerity from the present CM. Citing an example, she said that whenever there was a discussion on the issue of encephalitis in eastern UP, she was quite sure that Gorakhpur MP would speak and would raise the issue with utmost sincerity. 
 
 Narrating an incident after Yogi was appointed the CM , Mahajan said that she was told that he wanted to attend the house and also make a simple speech. Since he was an MP, she had no objection to him attending the house. However, she intervened when the person told her that he would make a simple speech, Mahajan said and added that she told the person that she knew Yogi well and also understood he is a very responsible person and knew how to make a balanced speech. 
 
 That comes with reading and taking first-hand knowledge of the issue, Mahajan said. Coming to why she called him ‘yoddha sanyasi’, Mahajan said that ‘sanyas’ doesn't mean leaving everything. It only meant that one quits all desires, Mahajan said and added but one should never leave his or her ‘karma’ and that's exactly what Aditya Nath has been doing. 
 
 Giving the mantra of success, Mahajan said that to be a successful MLA one should know when and where to say no. One should be straightforward in making promises or denying any favour, Mahajan said and added that gradually everyone in the constituencies gets to know about the person and himself keeps away from pursuing such requests. If one is able to be straightforward, he or she can go on to win elections after elections, Mahajan said. 
 
 It is the time for the first time MLAs to show their skills to the people who have elected them and said that winning and reaching in Assembly was the beginning of the spring season for them and narrated a verse: "Kakah krishna pikah krishna, Ko bheda pika kaka yoho? Vasanta samaye praptey, Kakah kakah pikah pikaha (The crow is black, and the cuckoo is black. What difference, then, between crow and cuckoo? When spring arrives, it's easy to tell that the crow is a crow, and the cuckoo a cuckoo). 
 
