LUCKNOW: A full-fledged   (RERA) to check builders from duping home buyers in Uttar Pradesh is not likely to be in place by May 1, when   (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 comes into effect across the country. Sources in housing department said setting up of formal   with complete paraphernalia to register housing projects may get delayed by at least three months in the absence of a chairman and members who have yet to be appointed by a selection committee headed by Chief Justice of Allahabad high court.

 The state government, however, will go ahead with a temporary arrangement of appointing additional cabinet secretary (housing and urban planning) Sadakant as an interim chairman of a RERA, though there will be no members. Confirming this, Sadakant said the state government would start the process of selecting a full-time chairman and three whole-time members in the first week of May. Official sources, however, said the entire process would take at least 90 days before a formal authority takes shape.
 
 The delay in setting up a crucial authority in UP comes despite the centre conceptualising the authority in May 2016 and asking the state governments to meet the deadline by May 1, 2017. UP government, accordingly, issued a gazette notification on October 27, 2016.
 
 Sources, however, said the previous Samajwadi Party government initiated the process of appointment of chairman and members but it got stalled after the selection committee sought more details of the applicants, including several senior and retired bureaucrats of the UP government. The list of applicants, accessed by TOI, include the name of former UP chief secretary, Alok Ranjan, former DGP A L Banerjee, former housing secretary   and senior state official  .
 
 Real estate experts said the delay was also because of “pressure” from the powerful builder lobby seeking a ‘suitable’ policy framework vis-a-vis RERA. The delay, an expert said, may have far-reaching effects on the real estate business in Uttar Pradesh. “The builders would like to get their projects registered with the authority as soon as possible. That would be the biggest challenge before the state government in the absence of full-fledged paraphernalia of members and other staff. Just a formal announcement of RERA is not likely to serve the purpose,” said real estate expert and corporate financial advisor Venket Rao.
 
 Rao said the delay could potentially lead to litigations by the builders if they do not get their projects registered timely. “Also, a verification of the projects and their regular monitoring will also have to be ensured by the authority,” he said.
 
 Chairman of UP Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India S K Garg said objective of the act suits the consumers but the government will be required to remove confusion and apprehension of the industry. “The implementation of the act in its true spirit would be the biggest challenge or else the real estate industry would be hit,’’ said Garg.
 
