PANAJI: Along with aspirants for medical seats, students who want to pursue graduate courses in homeopathy and ayurveda in Goa will also have to answer the   ( ) for admissions for 2017-18. This could mean that 2017 is possibly the last year the Goa Common Entrance   ( ) will be conducted.

 “We have received a circular from the Union ministry of Ayush stating that admissions to homeopathy and ayurveda seats, too, will take place through NEET in 2017. Accordingly, we will issue an announcement in the newspapers, which will appear by Tuesday, instructing homeopathy and ayurveda seat aspirants to register for NEET,” said a state official. Registrations for NEET are open till March 1.
 
 Goa has 50 homeopathy and 60 ayurveda seats on offer. Admissions to these seats were carried out based on GCET results until last year. Medicine and dentistry seats in Goa, which were also being filled based on GCET scores, will now see admissions to them being carried out based on NEET from 2017, as per last year’s Supreme Court ruling.
 
 Around 2,000 medicine, dentistry, homeopathy and ayurveda seat aspirants from Goa are expected to answer NEET in 2017.
 
 This implies that GCET will be held in 2017 for less than 3,000 students for seats in engineering, pharmacy, nursing and allied health programmes. But, the number of those appearing for the   test will drop further in 2018, as the Union human resource development ministry has announced a common entrance exam for admissions to engineering seats across the country.
 
 This will leave GCET to be held only for admissions to pharmacy, nursing and allied health courses.
 
 “It is entirely possible that from 2018, pharmacy seat admissions could take place based on the engineering exam, just as homeopathy and ayurveda seats are being asked to be filled based on NEET results. As engineering tests are conducted in physics, chemistry and mathematics, physics and chemistry scores from the same test could be taken to calculate scores for admissions to pharmacy courses. Such a possibility could make GCET redundant as early as 2018,” a source said.
 
 Even if the GCET is held next year as well for admissions to pharmacy, nursing and the allied health courses, it will barely be termed a common entrance exam, with most of the professional streams in Goa not under its purview any more.
 
