CHENNAI: Finance Minister  's announcement of capping anonymous cash donations to political parties at '2,000 and introducing electoral bonds would require political parties in Tamil Nadu to get serious about accounting.

 Seeking to promote transparency in political funding, the announcement, made as part of the budget for 2017-18, limits donations to political parties from a single anonymous source to '2,000, in line with an   recommendation. Political parties can receive donations more than '2,000 by cheque or digital mode. The bonds can be purchased from authorised banks against cheque or epayment.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, the ruling AIADMK has been following the BSP path in the last two years. Earlier this month, TOI had reported that the ruling party, which won the May 2016 assembly election, did not receive any donation above '20,000 during the period 201516, according to the financial reports the party submitted to the Election Commission.This is the second year in a row the AIADMK has informed the EC that all individual donations it received were below '20,000. Opposition DMK is yet to file its report for the financial year.
 
 Data available with the EC also revealed that Tamil Nadu's regional parties recorded receiving the most cash donations -'2.46 crore -in the country .
 
 Reacting to the finance minister's announcement, school education and sports minister K Pandiarajan told TOI, “We [the AIADMK] are not into corporate donations. Amma was clearly opposed to black money. That policy will continue. There is nothing perturbing about the announcement. It's consistent with Modiji efforts at demonetising and moving to a cashless society.“
 
 Opposition leader and DMK working president  , in a statement, said, “The announcement made by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley asking political parties to disclose any cash donations above '2,000 is welcome.“ Last month, the Associa tion for Democratic Reforms (ADR) released a report on sources of political funding, which revealed that 69% of funds received by national and regional parties were from “unknown“ sources.
 
 Trilochan Sastry, founder and trustee of ADR described the finance minister's announcement as a “small step“, but, he added, “the real problem of transparency is not the money shown in the books. It is the money that is not shown in the books or black money“.
 
 He told TOI: “We will have to wait and see if this move is going to tackle that problem, unless they have another plan which they are yet to announce.“ Sastry suggested that the government should “go back to the root of black money, find out where it is generated and take appropriate action.“
 
