GUWAHATI: A   has shown, contrary to perceptions, the use of   has risen significantly in the last few years in   or the   

 The Centre for North East Studies (C-NES), a policy advocacy think tank, found in its study among 600 married women of 15-49 years in lower and central Assam that women using family planning methods have increased from 59% to 62% between 2013 and 2016. The char areas are located in Dhubri, Barpeta, Bongaigaon, Morigaon and Sonitpur districts. Awareness about family planning methods has also increased from 75% to 77% among married women in these areas.
 
 The figures also point to the fact that the women in the minority-dominated areas are ahead of their counterparts in the char areas of upper Assam districts where the community is not in majority. A sample-size of 600 married women of the same age group in the char areas of Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Lakhimpur and Sonitpur districts showed that the use of family planning methods has increased from 47% to 59% between 2009 and 2012. Awareness about family planning methods among married women in Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Lakhimpur and Sonitpur has increased from 47% to 59%. 
 
 The study was carried out in two phases in collaboration with the Population Foundation of India from 2009 as part of the efforts of C-NES to strengthen family planning services in chars through its boat clinics. From 2008, C-NES has been running boat clinics in association with the National Rural Health Mission and the Assam government to render healthcare services to the people in char areas, which are otherwise not accessible through roads. Chars are spread over 14 districts and an estimated 2,300 villages are located in these riverine islands. Boats are the only means of communication in the islands, ravaged by annual floods.
 
 "Reducing the total fertility rate in Assam is the focus of the boat clinic heath initiative, aimed at promoting family planning, immunization, sanitation, nutrition, antenatal care, post-delivery care and prevention of HIV/AIDS," said C-NES managing trustee Sanjoy Hazarika, adding that women have been leaders of this change because they know how their lives are impacted by multiple pregnancies and deliveries.
 
 C-NES family planning coordinator Chandana Bora said over the years there has been a change in the perception of individuals as far as family planning is concerned. "Now people are coming forward to cooperate, they are sharing their problems with us and are taking part in discussions," said Bora.
 
 
