NAGPUR: Two youngsters died while their friend who was behind the wheel is fighting for life at a private hospital in city after their speeding car hit a signage on the footpath before ramming into a tree shortly before midnight on Thursday. The accident happened in front of railway quarters, around 200 meters from Sadar police station. The three youngsters were residents of Friends Colony on Katol Road.

 Two of the victims, including Akshay Mhaske (20), who is critical, are only sons of their parents. The two dead have been identified as Abhijeet Kochupayle (18) and Pranav Naidu (19). 
 
 Mhaske, the one behind the wheel, was supposed to leave for Pune on Friday to take admission into an engineering college, after losing an year in HSC. The Mhaske family claimed the car (Chevrolet Cruze MH-20 BZ-4747) was supposed to go for repairs, since it’s brake was not functioning properly. A relative also said the engine too had some problem. “Even the hand brake was not functioning a day ago,” claimed a friend of the family.
 
 It is, however, not known what led to the accident, apart from the fact that the car was at high speed when Mhaske lost control over it.
 
 Mhaske is recuperating at surgical ICU in CIIMS at  , with injuries all over his body and also in the head. He was also bleeding from the ears. Sources at the hospital said he had been responding to treatment, but is unconsciousness. Kochupayle was in the front seat beside Mhaske while Naidu was occupying the back seat.
 
 Naidu working as an apprentice at JSW at Kalmeshwar, after completing his ITI, where his father Mahesh too is employed. His mother Gayatri is a schoolteacher.
 
 Kochupayle, whose father Jojo works in a press at Dubai, had failed in Standard XII. Mhaske’s father, Malhari, is a professor. Mhaske’s mother Manda said her son was supposed to go and purchase a laptop to complete his admission. “We had reserved our bus ticket to travel to Pune,” she said.
 
  family, Pranav’s father Mahesh too said his son had got a call and left with friends. “Actually, Pranav’s mother had asked him not to leave, since she wanted him to join a religious programme,” he said.
 
 This is second incident in recent times where youngsters driving rashly met with an accident. On July 8, Ankush Mishra (22) died while three friends sustained serious injuries after their car rammed into the sidebars of Chinchbhuvan overbridge near Khapri while they were returning after enjoying a birthday party.
 
 Police sources said Mhaske most likely lost control of his car after spotting a vehicle approaching from Freemasons’ Bungalow. Mhaske and his friends were coming from   and heading towards Old VCA Stadium. Police said Mhaske’s car was going at high speed. Its speedometer was found stuck beyond 100 kmph after the accident. 
 
 The car first veered towards the extreme left and hit a signage on a concrete base on the footpath outside the gate of the railway quarters. The signage was later found around 15 feet away, inside the railway quarters. The car then grazed past the footpath, scrapping it’s side, before hitting the trunk of a neem tree. The car rolled over once before it came to a halt.
 
 The noise of the accident was so loud, said Traffic DCP Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, who was on night round, that cops at Sadar police station rushed out to see what was wrong. The patrolling vehicle of Sadar police promptly reached the place and began rescue operations. The staffers on night duty at Metro Rail project office too rushed out.
 
 The injured had to be pulled out of the mangled car before they were rushed to  , where Naidu and Kochupayle were declared dead. Mhaske’s relatives opted to rush him to CIIMS.
 
 An offence has been registered at Sadar police station against Mhaske for causing death due to negligence, and rash and negligent driving.
 
