SHIMLA:   Leader of Opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal on Thursday asked chief minister   Singh to step down and criticized the government for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.

 Dhumal said that after handing over the probe into cases of Kotkhai gangrape and murder and of custodial killing to CBI, the Himachal Pradesh high court has now asked the central agency to investigate the forest guard’s death case. He said this proves that neither judiciary nor the people of state have trust in police administration.
 
 He said the chief minister should own responsibility before the people for the state’s crumbling law and order situation and demanded Virbhadra’s resignation.
 
 Dhumal said that 11,800 FIRs were registered in the case in 2012, while in 2016, the number was 18,000. “This itself reveals the truth about the deteriorating law and order situation in the state,” a statement released by him stated.
 
 He said that under the   regime, heinous crimes like rape and murder have increased manifold.
 
 He said that rape incident of Dharamshala, arrest of ISIS agent from Kullu and writing of anti-national slogans in Subathu cantonment area, besides the recovery of ammunition in  , had raised question mark on the functioning of police.
 
 Dhumal said that Himachal Pradesh police earlier was known for its service and dedication but in the last five years the Congress government has used the police force for political vendetta and to fulfill its personal interests. He said eligible officers were sidelined and those loyal towards a particular person were appointed on key posts that resulted in further deterioration of law and order.
 
 He said that in Bilaspur district the death of physiotherapist Jyoti has become controversial because her father, a retired tehsildar, is accusing the police of converting the murder into a suicide case. He said all these incidents reveal that people have lost faith in police and the government and demanded Virbhadra’s resignation.
 
