NEW DELHI: There is nothing impressive about the   building from outside. But what is inside can just blow your mind. With 10 crore documents, this is Delhi’s second repository of records from early 19th century on, the first, of course, being the   where documents are counted in terms of kilometres.

 Smaller maybe, but it certainly does not lack in facilities. All the record rooms and reading rooms are fully air-conditioned and equipped with modern fire safety equipment.
 
 Delhi Archives has a vast collection of Mughal firmans, maps, lithographs, photographs, property papers, jail records, declassified CID and Intelligence Bureau reports, posters and newspaper clippings. For researchers and students of history, this is a treasure trove. But often the more numerous visitors are those involved in property feuds or litigations who need old records to prove inheritance or legacy ownership.
 
 Whenever a magistrate orders a particular record, the archives staff go to court with the rare papers. The staff showed us worn property papers, damaged by fungus and eaten by moths. “This is how we get them. We take great pains to restore them as much as possible and preserve them,” said chief archivist Sanjay Garg.
 
 Garg has been overseeing an ambitious project to digitise all kinds of records available with the Department of Archives. The first phase would see the   and microfilming of four crore papers over a period of 30 months at a cost of Rs 25.4 crore. The work has been outsourced to Neistar Information Technology Pvt Ltd.
 
 So far, five overhead scanners imported from Germany have been installed. “We will have seven more soon. Each one costs about Rs 30 lakh,” said Garg. “We will also install a scanner for the big-sized maps and Mughal firmans. The target is to digitise about 50,000 pages each day while conserving records side by side.”
 
 The project was first conceived in 2011 and was pushed by the current government. “One of the first things that Arvind Kejriwal did as chief minister was to announce in May 2015 that he wanted this digitisation project to roll out during his tenure,” Garg added.
 
 But digitisation isn’t a one-stop solution for preserving records. To learn more, this correspondent contacted Jadavpur University’s School of Cultural Texts and Records, which has done pioneering work on digitisation of archives. It’s the recipient of British Library’s ‘endangered archives grant’ and a partner of a bigger project called ‘Two Centuries of Indian Print’, launched by former British PM  .
 
 “Digital records by themselves only extend archival life by a few years. Yes, digital artefacts have a short life,” pointed out Dr Amlan Dasgupta, director of School of Cultural Texts and Records. “If you don’t upgrade the hardware and software, these can vanish or become inaccessible in about five years. This is a global concern. We are talking about lakhs and millions of terrabytes of data. The question for every archivist should be this: can I ensure the safety of this material in a more pragmatic way?”
 
 Every year, a lot of documents vanish or crumple away due to their poor condition. “Digitisation doesn’t mean that the original papers don’t have to be preserved. Digitisation only ensures that a record doesn’t have to be touched, brought out or disturbed in any way frequently,” Dasgupta added. “You could just download a pdf of it.” This was where training the staff handling documents was also necessary.
 
 Delhi Archives also has rare collections donated by individuals as ‘private papers’. Archive assistants Ashutosh and Pradeep showed us a bunch.
 
 “Many records survive because they are in private hands; conversely, many records don’t survive because the owners believe the uniqueness of a document would be lost if it’s digitised,” said Dasgupta. “Many public repositories also suffer from this as they think nobody would visit if the exclusivity of a document vanished once it was in the public domain. This attitude needs to change.”
 
 Dasgupta cited the digitisation undertaken by the West Bengal government at the public library in Kolkata as “stellar work”. Garg himself opined that the Delhi government’s job would be no less stellar.
 
