NEW DELHI: The government informed the   on Thursday that it has not yet decided to enact a separate act for   which would give more powers to the anti-corruption probe agency to take up investigations suo-motu, make it first responder of serious crimes and have a dedicated anti-terrorism division making it a true federal probe agency like FBI where states don’t have any interference.

 A parliamentary standing committee, calling present powers given to CBI “inadequate”, had asked for having a separate statute for working of premier agency.
 
 Union minister Jitender Singh informed Parliament in a written reply that government has not taken any decision on enactment of a separate act for CBI, which presently derives its powers from the 70-year- old Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946.
 
 In its previous report, the parliamentary panel had opined that CBI should evolve into an organisation which maintains a robust incident response capability and having ability to adjust to emerging and evolving circumstances created by new threats. “In order to ensure this, it should be supported by an infallible legal fabric,” the committee stated.
 
 It is high time crime scene management is given topmost priority and that in cases of terrorist attack and such other serious cases wherein the whole nation is affected.
 
 It was felt that section 6 of the DSPE Act clips the wings of CBI and due to this legal hurdle, CBI cannot be the first responder in case of crimes which even threaten the security of the nation such as a terrorist attack.
 
 “By the time the CBI is handed over the case, precious time is lost which not only results in loss of crucial evidence, but also provides ample time for criminals to escape who operate at electronic speed or move the ill-gotten wealth in safe havens across the globe. Moreover, the CBI does not get an opportunity to build required data base and collate intelligence absolutely essential for successfully investigating such type of cases, more so in the present era wherein the dangerous convergence of terrorism and traditional crimes presents obvious and acute dangers,” it added.
 
 It added that, under the new statute, CBI should also be granted powers of investigation and prosecution in the same manner.
 
 It said that CBI should be envisaged as an enforcement agency also which would mean that apart from investigation and prosecution, but also be given mandate to ensure prevention of crimes. It recommended creation of a separate Anti-Terrorism Division within CBI.
 
 In USA, federal states have their own Constitution and yet they have subjected themselves to the jurisdiction of the   (FBI) which is a central agency.
 
 “It understands that police and public order is a State subject in the USA too and that in all cases involving a federal offence in the USA, the FBI and the local police have concurrent jurisdiction; but the moment the FBI steps in, the local police stops investigation. In India, the situation is different in that its polity is quasi-federal in nature. Therefore, the committee sees no reason to prevent granting of powers to CBI under a suitable comprehensive legislation,” it had said.
 
 Presently, CBI has to depend on state governments and courts for referring complex cases to it, in which crucial evidence and time is lost.
 
