NEW DELHI: Stepping out without facing derision is a rare experience for 25-year-old Osaka, an MBA student from Nigeria. Though he is accustomed to the constant hassle now, Osaka wishes things were different. In an interaction with senior police officers in south Delhi on Wednesday, the Nigerian urged cops to come up with measures to bridge the cultural gap between Indians and  .

 More than 40,000 Africans from different countries in Africa reside in south Delhi alone. Most come to pursue higher studies in private universities, the others run businesses catering to their community’s needs. “While shocked and frightened by the Greater   incident, we realise that there is bad and good in every society,” reasoned J. Bright, who studies engineering in Noida. “The local government and police have crucial roles in dealing with offensive situations. Right now, we are scared.”
 
 Discrimination by landlords, most of them in Chhattarpur, Rajpur Khurd and Vasant Kunj, is a common refrain. “I pay Rs 15,000, but the same apartment would be rented to an Indian for Rs 9,000,” pointed out Kenneth, a Nigerian who has been working in India for five years. “People here don’t know about our backgrounds and treat us like other affluent foreigners. There is a need to sensitise the locals to our circumstances.”
 
 Though many of them were reassured by the confidence-building exercise conducted by the cops last year after a spate of violence, some felt even police needed a change in mind sets. “Police launched the 8750871111 helpline for us last year, but the people attending the calls need to be told of our peculiar problems. They need to understand our dialects as well,” said Bright.
 
 Ishwar Singh, DCP (South), who has regularly met the blacks since last year, talked of roping in willing African students to help with just such a sensitising programme for the lower ranks. “Every person from the African countries visiting Delhi should return home having found a friend in us,” said Singh, and assured, “If anyone comes to us with a problem of communication, we will see it is resolved promptly.”
 
 For some first-time visitors, the experience has been mixed. “I remember curing my landlord of dengue with a mixture of a local herb I had brought from home,” said Prince, a student from Congo studying in a private institution in south Delhi. “I became popular among the local residents after that, but then that is only a small portion of the locality I live in.” He also agreed that not all those who travel to India do with good intentions and admitted that some do deal in drugs. “But it is the cops who should deal with them, not the common people,” he rightly said.
 
 
