Nagpur: Taking forward the causes that she works for under Gram Project at Paradsinga, artist Shweta Bhattad is currently showcasing various aspects of agricultural concerns at an art residency organized by Foundation of Indian Contemporary Art at New Delhi.  “FICA gives a public art grant which I received last year in December to organize a Land Art Festival. They invited me for a solo show in Delhi this month to show what we had done with the grant. Since it was about the work done under our Gram project, I decided that all those connected should also come along,” says Shweta who opened the show on July 13 with her performance. Her act titled ‘Barren Orgasm’ was designed to highlight the harms caused by BT cotton, GM crops, extensive use of chemical fertilizer and loss of land which will lead to destruction of farming. Slathered with mud, which the group carried from a pond they have built in their village, Bhattad sat on a raised structure with a chastity belt tied around her waist.  “There was a video titled ‘Vagina Vomit’ which was placed over the chastity belt. It showed chemical fertilizers, imported seeds, BT cotton, GM crops being vomited out. We also added the sounds made while vomiting to it,” she explains. A red cloth tied to the chastity belt was spread through the room and ran into the next one. “The visitors walked in on that red carpet and reached where I was sitting to watch the video. It conveyed that what appears very welcoming first is actually a deadly trap,” says Bhattad. Bhattad’s sibling Aditi, who too is an artist, also did a performance titled ‘Are you Nero’s Guest’. In it, she wore a nine-yard sari and sat writing the names, age and date of demise of farmers who had committed suicide over the last three years.  “The total figure of dead farmers was on her back which she had created by tanning herself. The postcards made with seed paper where handed over to the visitors,” says the artist.  There were empty wooden frames on the walls below which drawers were placed. Details of various works done by the Gram residency were kept in the drawers that were made at ‘Maker’s Adda’ in Nagpur.  “We displayed pictures and details of seven paintings in fields for which social workers, artists and farmers had collaborated at the Land Art Festival held at Paradsinga in December last year. Seeds of lal bhaji, spinach and fenugreek were sowed to grow motifs which depicted farmers’ issues,” says Bhattad. A ‘rakhi’ workshop was also organized at Delhi which was conducted by two village women from Paradsinga. “The rakhis are made with indigenous Indian cotton. We procure the cotton from Akola, it is spun and dyed with natural colours in Wardha and rakhis are made in Paradsinga. A seed is placed on every rakhi which can be sowed,” says Bhattad.  A group of singers and writers performed songs, which spoke of farmer concerns at the art residency at Delhi. The show will conclude on Aug 12.