HYDERABAD: It is just 36 days into the New Year, but swine flu cases have already overtaken last year's numbers with 210 cases (including 70 in first four days of Feb) against only 173 cases in 2016. The reason for sharp increase this year is still a mystery. In 2015, it was 3,000, an all-time high.

 “Nothing can be said, but it may point towards changes in the  ,“ said Dr K Narasimhulu, former swine flu coordinator at   who worked at the nodal centre during 2015.
 
 This has worsened the woes of patients as they are at the mercy of the over dozen private hospitals providing treatment for both suspected as well as cases confirmed by In stitute of Preventive Medicine (IPM). In the absence of any regulation from government, the per day treatment cost of an H1N1suspect or a positive patient in ICU now ranges between Rs 40,000 and Rs 3 lakh depending upon the size of the hospital, said a government health official.
 
 “We had requested the government to set up a task force on swine flu to manage and monitor a range of issues, including raising awareness and surveillance to negotiating with private hospitals for common package rate. But no such steps have been taken yet,“ said  , president,  , which recently sought intervention of the principal secretary (health). Over 90% of patients land up at private ho spitals for treatment instead of going to government-run hospitals. For instance, the first four days in Feb saw IPM testing over 70 H1N1 positive cases but health sources said only 8-10 cases were getting treated at government hospitals, including Gandhi and Niloufer.
 
 Worse, despi te being bro ught under Aarogyasri through a cir cular dating back to Janu ary 2015, no corporate hospital is providing free treatment to poor H1N1 patients with BPL cards.
 
 “The Aarogyasri rules are a complete eyewash as they say that private empanelled hospitals can treat H1N1 patients only when they come in last stage -Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. This is nothing but double standards as management of swine flu patients must start at an early stage in ICUs even before they develop ARDS,“ said Dr T Narsinga Reddy, chairman of Aarogyasri Private Network Hospitals, Telangana.
 
