BHUBANESWAR: Alarmed by last year's Rath Yatra fiasco when some servitors of   misbehaved with Puri district collector   and journalists, the state government on Thursday sought cooperation from the servitors to ensure hassle-free car festival on June 25.

 "We hope the servitors perform the rituals and coordinate with the district administration for smooth Rath Yatra this year," said revenue divisional commissioner (central range) A B Ota after reviewing a Rath Yatra preparatory meeting with officers of different departments and police personnel in Puri.
 
 All hell broke loose on July 17, 2016, the last day of nine-day Rath Yatra when the deities were supposed to be taken from chariots into the shrine (the Niladri Bije ritual). A group of servitors allegedly heckled Agrawal and assaulted journalists. The servitors stalled the procession of taking deities into the temple for some time, sparking state-wide public outcry. Around 20 servitors were booked in separate cases of misconduct to Agrawal and assault on journalists. Police had then declared eight servitors as absconders, pasted their posters on public places and started the legal procedure to attach their properties. Some servitors were arrested. 
 
 Unlike previous years, Thursdays meeting saw participation of a handful of servitors. On Saturday, a group of servitors announced to boycott the meeting in protest against the governments crackdown on their community members last year. Some of the servitors, who used to attend such meetings, were conspicuous by their absence on Thursday as they were booked by the police in connection with Niladri Bije chaos last year. I dont know why so many servitors stayed away from the meeting. Some of us attended the meeting. We assured full cooperation to the government for smooth conduct of car festival, said  , a servitor. 
 
 Some local residents, who were present in the meeting, complained about poor roads and drainage systems in Puri. "We expected Puri's infrastructure will get a boost during 2015 Nabakalebara during which crores of rupees were spent. But condition of roads and drains belied our expectations. The road over bridge at Malatipatpur on   national highway is yet to be completed," said  , a local resident. 
 
