AHMEDABAD: The NOTA (none of the above) option will be available to Gujarat MLAs in the high-voltage elections to three Rajya Sabha seats on August 8. While the NOTA notification was issued by the   in 2015, this will be the first RS election in Gujarat since then. 

 The NOTA option becomes significant in view of the likelihood of some Congress MLAs defying the party whip. While six of its 57 MLAs have resigned from the assembly, 42 MLAs are at present camping in Bengaluru under the watchful eyes of the ruling Congress in Karnataka. 
 
 The present crisis was triggered by the resignation of Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Shankersinh Vaghela which led to six more resignations last week. 
 
 On Monday, many of these MLAs went out shopping. They are expected to return to Gandhinagar only on the eve of the polls. The secretary of Vidhan Sabha, D M Patel confirmed that NOTA option will be available. There are four candidates in fray for the three seats, viz.   president Amit Shah, Union minister Smriti Irani, former Congress chief whip Balwantsinh Rajput and  's political secretary Ahmed Patel.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress on Monday forced a brief adjournment of proceedings in Rajya Sabha alleging that the Gujarat police was kidnapping and threatening its MLAs in the state with a view to influence their votes in the RS polls. Congress members trooped in to the Well of the House raising anti-government slogans, which were matched by BJP.
 
 Amid pandemonium, deputy chairman P J Kurien adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes during the Zero Hour soon after it met in the morning. Minister of state for parliamentary affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi charged the Congress with "kidnapping" its own MLAs and lodging them in a holiday resort in Karnataka at a time when the people of Gujarat were facing miseries from flash floods.
 
 Leader of Opposition in RS Ghulam Nabi Azad said "Ahmed Patel will win the election. We have 14-15 votes more than the BJP." "BJP is saying it will win the election. It means they are planning foul play. They are trying to steal votes," Azad said. 
 
 The Congress has accused the BJP of trying to bribe its MLAs with an offer of Rs 15 crore each. 
 
