NEW DELHI: The hope that her son's death sentence would be converted into life term kept accused  's mother going. She claims the family had disowned him since his arrest, but being a mother, she has been pleading with their lawyer to 
  . His sister, Rinku, however, believes he is not guilty. “He is languishing in jail for someone else's crime,” she says.

 Gupta’s family is the only one which has stayed back at   in R K Puram. The family members of Ram Singh and Mukesh had left two years after the incident. “Despite living in the same colony, they never spoke to the families of any of the other accused. The corner shack owned by Ram Singh’s father was put up for sale but no one agreed to take their house due to the stigma. Some even feared that Ram Singh’s ghost would haunt them,” says a neighbour, Asha Devi. The room is now used for storing goods. 
 
 Since 2012, all the families were facing a social boycott at Ravidas Camp. “We used to meet the family members of Ram Singh and Mukesh in court but avoided talking to them. It is for their fault that my brother is in jail,” says the 19-year-old Rinku. 
 
 Gupta’s other sister had passed away suddenly due to unknown reasons days after the incident. “The incident has taken two of our family members; we consider it to be a dark day in our lives,” she says.
 
 
  
 They resent the media spotlight. “Since the incident, the media has been hounding us. Some of them even started visiting my school asking whether I would be expelled,” says Rinku. In fact, on Thursday, the family had requested the camp elders to keep the media out. “We have not done anything wrong. My son has been a victim of circumstances, why hound us for that,” says the mother. 
 
 Till 2014, Pawan’s father, Heera Lal, a fruit seller, used to visit him at Tihar but under the regular onslaught of court appearances and tension, he can no longer do that. “The family rarely visits them in jail these days. We have never seen Akshay and Vinay’s family members since they have been sentenced to death. His mother, Champa Devi, used to be vocal about the injustice to their son but she too fell ill after hearing the verdict. They must have moved to their ancestral village,” says Asha Devi.
 
 When this reporter tried to find out the wherabouts of the other families, the elders of the colony frowned. “They had done something that made Ravidas Camp a blot on Delhi. Everyone knows the camp for the wrong reason. We want to put this behind us,” says Ganga Ram, a resident.
 
 
