JAIPUR: In village Sunda Chainpura of Khakhda block in   district, villagers are forced to rely on drains even for the water they drink - this has caused high morbidity, but the government has done nothing to provide safe drinking water. The water they drink is from a rain-fed source, now visibly dirty. Some years ago, a handpump was installed in the village, but it seldom functions, villagers told social activist Firoz Khan.

 Villagers said they had approached officials for a solution to their water crisis, but their pleas have gone unheard. This is a village in which 38 people were rescued from bonded labour some years ago. Since the government intervened to free them of the oppressive bond, villagers have survived on work under projects undertaken through MGNREGA. Even that work, however, has now dried up.
 
 In the height of summer, villagers have no option but to rely on water transported here in tankers, at a price. Sometimes, villager Hemraj Sahariya said, a kindly farmer will allow the poor villagers to use water from the tube well. "But that depends on the whims of the farmer - sometimes, we are just chased away. And we are less likely to get any water if we are not working for the farmer," he said.
 
 Women said that since so much energy is spent just finding water for the family, it was hard to take up any other work that would pay a wage. Area Development Officer Janak Singh said that the administration is aware of the difficulties faced by villagers and making arrangements to solve the water problem.
 
 The water problem in the district is not unique to this village. At Mahuri Khedi village in Sandokda gram panchayat of Shahabad block in Baran, villagers said none of the three hand-pumps work. "Getting safe water is next to impossible, and we get by on the water that we can find from rain-fed sources, that are often not so clean," Gomti, a resident of the village, told Firoz Khan.
 
 Baran collector SP Singh said, "I will look into this matter. The officials responsible for negligence will not be allowed to go scot-free."
 
