BHUBANESWAR: With pollution in Puri now in the radar of the   (NGT), a massive awareness campaign is set to start in the holy city. The campaign will aim to help people wake up to the measures which can be undertaken to reduce the high levels of pollution in the city and educate them on ways in which the city can be kept clean. 

 On November 10, 2016, the NGT had asked the   (OSPCB) to involve all stakeholders and plan an encompassing awareness drive in the city. The involved stakeholders are the Puri civic body, the Odisha water supply and sewerage board, public health and engineering organisations, the Puri district administration and the   temple administration. 
 
 The NGT's advisory had come in the wake of series of petitions filed by green crusader  . He cited air, water and sold waste pollution levels in Puri as a major source of concern.
 
 While the Swargadwar crematorium is a major contributing factor to the city's air pollution, untreated waste water discharged from hotels and residential areas has been steadily adding to the water pollution levels. In addition, there is liberal dumping of municipal waste on the Grand Road and its peripheral areas, which further worsens environmental condition.
 
 "We have held discussions as to how to design the leaflets and messages so that they are easily communicated to both tourists and Puri residents. We will also organise rallies in the city at regular intervals to drive home the cause. The leaflets will be distributed among the tourists along thesea beach, near the temples, and at the railway station and bus terminals as well," said Hadibandhu Panigrahi, OSPCB regional officer (Puri-Bhubaneswar). 
 
 In February, 2016, an expert committee was formed by Puri collector Aravind Agrawal to look into the alleged waste water discharge by hotels through drains into the sea. The incident was reportedly taking place near Bankimuhan. The committee examined the issue and based on its subsequent report, the pollution panel had filed a report to the NGT.
 
 A source at the pollution board said 40% of the city's solid waste is dumped in the stretch between Bada Danda (Grand Road) and Mausi Maa Temple. Puri generates about 100 tonnes of solid waste per day, 60% of which litters other areas of the city, an OSPCB study said.
 
 The beach town witnesses a footfall of around 40 lakh tourists annually, out of which nearly two lakh put up in hotels. 
 
