CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister   on Friday laid the foundation stones of 21 new government colleges in 13 districts of the state via video conferencing. The CM said that the event was meant to mark the birth anniversary of Sant Ravidass.

 The buildings of these college would be disabled-friendly and would cost around Rs 276 crore. This is the first time in Haryana that the foundation stones of such a large number of colleges have been laid from a single location through video conferencing. “This has not only helped in completion of the event without any special arrangements, it gave us more time to dispose of other issues here as well,” said Khattar.
 
 Opening of these colleges would benefit students from all sections of society, including girls and marginalized sections, and would prove to be a milestone in higher education, he added.
 
 The CM said the Haryana government was preparing a roadmap for all areas of education such as primary schools and medical colleges. “With a view to make the youths employable after they complete their education, the government is imparting skills training under the  , and was also establishing a skill development university in Palwal district. Programmes such as Happening Haryana Global Investors Summit 2016 and Haryana Pravasi Divas 2017 have been organized to generate more employment opportunities,” Khatta said.
 
 Haryana education minister Ram Bilas Sharma said that in the last 50 years, no other government had been able to lay the foundation stones of such a large number of colleges at one go. He said the opening of more government colleges for women would give a boost to the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ programme.
 
 These colleges are to be constructed at Manesar in Gurugram district; Jundla, Taraori and Assandh in Karnal; Kurukshetra: Unhani and Chhilro in Mahendergarh; Kalanwali and Rania in Sirsa; Mohna, Mandkola and Nacholi in Faridabad; Bilaspur and Radaur in Yamunanagar; Badoli in Palwal; Raipur Rani in Panchkula; Bhuna in Fatehabad; and Punhana in Nuh.
 
 The CM also laid the foundation stones of additional buildings, classrooms and multipurpose halls in the government colleges at Jatauli Haily in Gurugram; Kalanwali in Rewari; and Chhachhrauli in Yamunanagar. These buildings would be constructed at a cost of Rs 12 crore to Rs 19 crore each.
 
 
