Chandigarh: A day after stating that there were no big fish to be caught in the drug trade in Punjab, director general of police Suresh Arora on Friday clarified that what he meant was that all the big fish in the trade had fled the state after the police crackdown on them.

 According to sources, the DGP’s explanation came after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s office asked him to withdraw the statement as it contradicted the CM’s earlier remarks.
 
 Arora had made similar remarks on October 21, 2016, at a press conference along with then Punjab deputy chief minister and Akali Dal supremo, Sukhbir Badal. “I keep hearing from political parties about this big fish. Let me tell you I wrote to central agencies asking them if they have knowledge about this. I haven’t got any reply,” Arora had stated while rejecting then opposition Congress’s charges.
 
 The DGP in his fresh statement on Friday said, “I had not said or suggested that there were no big fish in the drug trade in Punjab. I had referred to the absence of big fish in the context of the fact that some of the big drug-pushers had fled the state in the wake of the crackdown on drugs racket by the government."
 
 “The chief minister had issued strict directions to the police and other agencies not to spare anyone involved in drug trade, which left a whole generation of youth ruined for life,” the statement added.
 
 Amarinder, on March 20, had told mediapersons, “I am pinning the responsibility of maintaining a corruption, drugs and crime-free society on the SPs and DCs in the state, directing them to go after the big fish among drug peddlers, gangsters and other criminals".
 
 A day after taking charges as the CM, Amarinder had asked 1992-batch IPS officer Harpreet Sidhu to form anti-drugs Special Task Force (STF).
 
 Sources in the CMO said that Amarinder was also upset over the recent spate of sectarian killings across Punjab.
 
 The CM had issued a stern warning on Sunday to intelligence wing headed by DGP Dinkar Gupta, asking them to share inputs with the other departments of the police or face action.
 
 
