PATNA: Bihar assembly speaker   said on Wednesday all the elected people’s representatives like MPs and MLAs are not “thieves and corrupt”. Rather voters elect people with questionable background as their representatives and, later, expect all virtues from them, he said. 

 “There is a perception that all leaders have become ‘thieves and corrupt’. I am telling the same thing in other words that ‘thieves and corrupt’ persons have been elected by people as their representatives. In elections, all types of candidates — good and bad — contest elections. But voters elect ‘thieves and corrupt’ people and expect all sorts of good qualities from them,” Choudhary reiterated as the video of his address to the 6th edition of the   (BCS) held in Pune last year was replayed on Wednesday at Bihar assembly’s annexe building as a pep talk to the state women legislators who would be participating in the first National Woman Parliament to be held in Amaravati (Andhra Pradesh) from February 10 to 12 this year. The three-day event is being jointly organized by the  , Andhra Pradesh government and MIT School of Government, Pune. 
 
 In his Pune speech, Choudhary had also called upon the youths to join politics. “You cannot reform it (politics) unless you enter it,” he had said, stressing on the need to create an atmosphere so that ‘sachche log’ (truthful people) could get elected as members of the legislative houses.
 
 Briefing about the importance of the forthcoming woman parliament, Choudhary said there were altogether 401 women legislators and 93 women MPs across the country. “In Bihar, there are 28 woman legislators. The Andhra Pradesh Speaker has appealed to all women lawmakers to join the first of its kind event. Efforts are being made that maximum number of women lawmakers from Bihar attend the Amaravati event,” Choudhary said. 
 
 Lauding the role of Nitish government in the field of woman empowerment, Choudhary said Bihar has been a pioneer in the field of women empowerment by providing reservations in different sectors. “Bihar is the first state to provide 50% quota to women in local urban bodies and panchayati raj institutions way back in 2006 and 35% quota to them in the state government jobs,” he said.
 
 More than a dozen women legislators, including former ministers Leisi Singh and Ranju Geeta, were present at the programme. 
 
