THANE: The   (TMT) has added two new services that will connect   and Nallasopara. 

 While the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) is already running its bus number 700 between   and Thane and back, the TMT has included its version of a non air conditioned (AC) bus to Borivali east, numbering it 66. 
 
 The maximum ticket cost for bus number 66 that starts from Kopri will be Rs 30. This bus will ply via Teen Hath Naka, Nitin Company, Majiwada naka, Kasarwadavli, Gaimukh and so on and back. 
 
 Meanwhile, the new TMT bus service number 69 that will run between Kopri and Nallasopara station (east) is one of the only two buses that ply this route, the other being a Vasai-Virar bus service (VVMT). 
 
 The maximum cost of this service, which runs up to Rs 46, continues to be lower than the Rs 54 fare offered by the VVMT.
 
 This bus will ply via 38 stops passing through Teen Hath Naka, Cadbury Junction, Ovala, Fountain Hotel, Naigaon, Sativli, Evershine gate, Yashwant Park, Nallasopara Station, Central park and so on and back.
 
 These new services will be kick-started from today and will ply every 30 to 50 minutes.
 
 The 40 buses (20 for each route) from the newly-acquired fleet of TMT have a capacity of 42 passengers, in addition to two seats which are reserved for the physically challenged.
 
 “All the 40 buses are high quality premium buses with good ventilation and on par with the AC buses. The only shortcoming is that they don’t have AC. Apart from this they are ideal. They are all ITS compliant,” said Sudhir Raut, TMT manager.
 
 The first service to Nallasopara will start from Thane at 5am, while the last will leave at 10pm. From Nallasopara, the first will leave at 6.25am and the last will start at 9.40pm.
 
 Meanwhile, the first service to Borivali will start from Thane at 5.20am, while the last will leave at 7.10pm. From Borivali, the first will leave at 6.50am and the last at 9.10pm.
 
 Trupti Solanki, a 24-year-old commuter, who frequently travels to Borivali for work, said, “This move by TMT was long-pending. I am glad that TMT has started its own   to Borivali and that the buses will be plying every 30 to 50 minutes is an added bonus. The service will help people like me who are not comfortable with AC as I feel uneasy in an enclosed vehicle. I hope the administration maintains its assurances and keeps the services going.”
 
 The bus from Thane (Kopri) -Borivali will pass through Teen Hath Naka, Nitin Company, Majiwada naka, Kasarwadavli, Gaimukh while the one between Thane and Nallasopara will take the Teen Hath Naka, Cadbury Junction, Ovala, Fountain Hotel, Naigaon, Sativli, Evershine gate, Yashwant Park, Nallasopara Station, Central park route
 
 
