GURUGRAM: It was touted as a dream place to live in. But today, homebuyers are often given the example of   to warn them against buying a flat in such a society.

 Persistent water shortage, poor drainage and  , potholed roads and unauthorised parking, and dog menace — there are problems galore that pose serious challenges to the residents of this pose condominium on a daily basis.
 
 On Sunday, during interactions with a team from TOI,   residents revealed how their society turned bad from good over the years, and how today they dread of living in the township they used to boast of once.
 
 Living with erratic water supply, the residents have been literally struggling hard to meet their daily needs for the past four months or so. “This (acute shortage of water) is the biggest problem right now. There have been times when we had to move into hotels to avoid this crisis,” said  , a resident.
 
 On the other hand, the sudden showers on Sunday evening left many parts of the society waterlogged, exposing both broken roads as well as poor drainage system here. “The society lacks a proper drainage system. Broken roads are also a big problem. The roads were made around two decades ago. The builder used to repair the stretches once in a while till a few years ago. Now, they have stopped it too,” said Kuldeep Rana.
 
 To make the situation worse,   pits are not functional here. “Rainwater harvesting would have helped recharge groundwater levels. But, the water tables are depleting fast here in the absence of any preventing measure,” said Jagjit Singh.
 
 Random, unauthorised parking along the approach roads, leading to the society gates, is another problem. “The service lanes are jammed with illegally parked cars, which make it very difficult to enter the society,” said Pramod Sharma.
 
 Civic issues apart, the residents also complained about security, or lack of it. The developer provides security guards. But, the guards are not armed and the number is not enough, the residents alleged. Also, the Aravalli forest is nearby. “They (guards) are neither equipped nor strong enough to act in case of any security breach,” he added. 
 
 Moreover, there is a thoroughfare, passing through the society, which connects Golf Course Road with Gurgaon-Faridabad highway. “The route should be sealed with a boundary wall near the highway so that it cannot be used as a thoroughfare,” said SK Chaudhary.
 
 The residents said that they were disappointed with the services provided by the developer, and hoped that things would get better once   took over the maintenance of the society.
 
 The developer, on the other hand, blamed the residents, who are allegedly not paying maintenance charges, for poor security and potholed roads. “Water supply is Huda’s responsibility. But even then I would say that the residents have created the problems for themselves as many of them are using illegal water pumps. Also, there are multi-storey paying guests, which are extracting water illegally,” said Narendra Kumar, GM, Suncity.
 
 
