LUCKNOW: One of India’s most powerful addresses is now a pale shadow of its past. For the past 25 years, every election, Samajwadis would make a beeline for 5, Vikramaditya Marg, the official residence of its founder  . This time, as the polls season is peaking, the patriarch hardly has any visitor. Only a few “sarkari” cars are parked outside and those manning the gate have nothing much to do despite this being India’s biggest election. One of the tallest leaders of India, who would call the shots from Lucknow to Delhi not very long ago, is a lonely man.

  “Ab bahut kam log aate hain (we have very few visitors now),” one of his aides tells TOI outside Mulayam’s bungalow, a few paces away from the   headquarters on Vikramaditya Marg.
 
 “When Netaji does not have power to give election tickets and the power centre has been shifted to his son   Yadav, why will people come to him?” he asks, recalling the old times when this place would teem with spirited party leaders and workers. “Humare paas ab koi kaam hi nahi hai (we are sitting idle),” he says.
 
 “Even SP candidates are not inviting for campaigning the man who founded the party 25 years ago and turned it into a formidable force,” says a Rajya Sabha member, who has had a long association with Mulayam. When TOI contacted some SP candidates, their general refrain was: “Ab Akhilesh bhaiyya ka zamana hai (We are living in Akhilesh’s era).”
 
 While Mulayam has lost the battle for the party symbol and supremacy to his son, he is also unhappy over his party’s alliance with the Congress, a party he fought against throughout his career. During the past four months of the family feud, many of his close aides deserted him. Leaders like Ram Gopal Yadav, Balram Yadav, Ram Govind Chaudhary and Kiranmoy Nanda are no longer seen around him despite being in the party. Some others like Ambika Chaudhary and Narad Rai have left the party.
 
 Over the past four decades, Mulayam was one of the most important politicians in every election in the state. He would campaign either as the CM or as the leader of opposition who could not be ignored. With indomitable energy, he would criss-cross every nook and corner of the state for campaigning. 
 
 It’s said that he was a politician who could recognise a village from his chopper flying high in the sky.
 
 
