VELLORE: A sculpture of Mahavir, which believed to be around 1,000 years-old, was found in a private land in Durai Perumpakkam village in   during the removal of   on Saturday.

 Revenue officials attached to Nemili Taluk, upon information, rushed to the spot and recovered the stone sculpture. The sculpture was shifted to the taluk office to keep it in safe custody.
 
 According to Curator of Government Vellore Museum K Saravanan, the 3-feet tall bas relief sculpture dated back to 10th Century. 
 
 The sculpture features Mahavir, the 24th Tirthankara, in a sitting posture with three Umbrella (mukkudai in Tamil) above his head. Chauri seen on either side of Mahavir and lion motifs on the pedestal were also found.
 
 “It is the Chola period sculpture of the last Tirthankara (Mahavir),” said the curator and added that the museum had a total of nine sculptures of Tirthankara. 
 
 They also belonged to the Chola period (10th and 11th Century). While eight of them were in sitting postures, the sculpture of Parsvanatha (23th Tirthankara) was in standing posture.
 
 These sculptures were found in Shenbakkam, Tirumanai, Keel Minnal and Madhanur in Vellore district and Chengam in Tiruvannamalai district. 
 
 “During Chola period, Jainism flourished in North Arcot districts (now Vellore and Tiruvannamalai). Jain temples are present in several places in Vellore district. The sculpture of Mahavir found on Saturday once again proves the popularity of Jainism during the Chola period in this part of the country,” said the curator.
 
 He added that they would write to the district administration under the provision of the Indian Treasure Trove Act 1878 and request them to hand over the sculpture to the museum.
 
 The sculpture of Mahavir was the second sculpture found in the recent past during the clearing of prosopis juliflora trees in private lands in the district. 
 
 Three bas-relief sculptures (hero stones) were found near   in Veppur when a group of villagers engaged earth movers to remove invasive species in and around the temple on the Palar riverbank on March 15. The hero stones depicted Navakantam - a warrior who sacrifices his life by slicing his head to fulfill the vow to goddess Kali.
 
