If you automatically know someone you're just meeting is named Katie, there's a good reason for that.

 This common phenomenon draws attention to the fact that most people's look tends to “fit“ with their   and when it doesn't, we take notice. Making assumptions about others based solely on their names is a near universal practice. Over time, these cultural stereotypes create real associations between a person's name and their facial appearance, according to new   from the American Psychological Association. The findings, published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , show that people are surprisingly able to correctly match a person's face with their name.
 
 “We know how belonging to a specific gender can have a strong social structuring impact, but now we know that even our name, which is chosen for us by others, can influence the way we look through our interactions with society,“ lead   author Dr. Yonat Zwebner, of the Hebrew University said. Zwebner and her colleagues recruited participants in France and Israel. Researchers showed each volunteer a person's face and asked them to select what name they would give them from a list of potential names. The participants matched the name to the face at a rate better than random chance. They showed up to a 40% likelihood of being cor rect, even when controlling for factors like age, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.
 
 Researchers believe cultural stereotypes that people attach to different names, by characters we see in movies, TV shows and books, could explain this effect. “Prior research has shown there are cultural stereotypes attached to names, including how someone should look,“ Zwebner said in a statement. For instance, people are more likely to imagine a person named Bob to have a rounder face than a person named Tim.“
 
 Stereotyping is particularly rampant in the case of names with strong racial associations. People with traditionally AfricanAmerican names are more likely to be pegged as “troublemakers“ and less likely to be called in for job interviews. A 2015 study found men with names like DeShawn and Jamal are more likely to be perceived as physically large and violent than men with more traditionally white-sounding ones.
 
 For better or for worse, it seems, your name really can shape your fate (or at least your hairstyle).
 
