TRICHY: As many as 500 government buses were prevented from hitting the roads on Friday from three of the city’s main depots by 700 retired   staff, demanding legitimate pension benefits. 

 Lying down in front of the exit points of the bus depot at Rock fort, Dheeran Nagar and Central Bus Stand, the protesters alleged that the transport administration and state government had failed to disburse their pension dues. While protesters sat in front of the bus depots from as early as 5am, residents were forced to use private buses to get to their destination.
 
 The protesters said they had worked tirelessly till retirement to ensure uninterrupted bus services. But now they were forced to disrupt bus services because they have not been receiving their pension for the past three months.
 
 “We understand that it is unfair to make people wait for hours for bus services but our intention is only to convey the message that we have been made to wait too long for our legitimate monthly pension,” said  , secretary of TNSTC retired employee’s welfare federation. “How long can we retired staff depend on our children,” he asked. 
 
 Since last December, they had been receiving pension in two instalments. But this March, they have not received any payments. There are about 65 retired TNSTC staff including drivers, conductors, clerks and officers. The transport corporation disburses pension to staff though a pension trust head-quartered in Chennai. 
 
 The compensation received from the government for subsidized diesel and free bus passes for school children is diverted to the trust to disburse pension to the tune of Rs74crore every month. However the trust is unable to disburse pension over lack of funds in recent months. “The trust is unable to get funds as the transport corporation has diverted funds meant for pension to disburse salary to the existing transport staff,” alleged district general secretary of AITUC N Mani.
 
 General Manager, TNSTC,   K Mani held talks with the protesters and assured them of a solution at the earliest. After a six-hour long protest, the retired staff agreed to call off their agitation at around 11am.
 
 “As bus services were hit during peak hours, we have been receiving complaints about problems faced by commuters. Moreover, Class 12 students are writing their board exams. Hence we have decided to call off the protest. We will continue to protest on Tuesday with our families if the issue is not resolved by Monday,” said Marudhamuthu.
 
 
