LONDON: Shakira was right, hips don't lie. The slightly bent frame, a trace of a drag in the gait that later turned into a pronounced limp - hampering his court coverage and serve - gave it away.  's race against time to be fit for Wimbledon, a determinedly strapped together challenge following a hip injury, came apart like a poorly wrapped gift in the quarterfinals on Centre Court.

 Egged on by a passionate full house, with cries of 'Come on, Andy' sweeping across SW19, the World No. 1, won just two games in the final two sets. His opponent, American  , the owner of a hurricane serve, wasn't done in by the struggles on the other side of the net, going through to his first major semifinal in thunderous fashion.
 
 The 29-year-old - the first American male since Andy Roddick in 2009 to make the last-four of a Slam, came through on his 42nd attempt, the most by a player, winning 3-6, 6-4, 6-7 (4), 6-1, 6-1 in 2 hours and 42 minutes.
 
 Seven-time champion Roger Federer reached the Wimbledon semi-finals for the 12th time on Wednesday with a 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 (74) win over Milos Raonic. Federer, 35, and playing in his 100th match at the All England Club, will now face 2010 runner-up   for a place in Sunday's final.
 
 Querrey, 6 ft 6, will go up against the seventh-seeded Croat  , who put out  's challenger Gilles Muller 3-6, 7-6 (8-6), 7-5, 5-7, 6-1 in another quarterfinal.
 
 The 30-year-old Murray, who led by a set and a break in the second, was broken when serving to take a 5-3 lead in the second set. Querrey won the set, a mental arm-wrestling contest, clinching three of the last four games. That was probably just where the Scot lost the clash even though he managed to close out the third set in a tie-break. Murray's movement had slowed down considerably in the fourth, and his serve had lost its customary bite. He even started clutching his hip and even though he wouldn't quit, there wasn't much he could do in the last two sets. In the deciding fifth set he won just 10 points.
 
 Murray did some straight talking in his post-match conference, pointing out that he had his chances to finish the match in straight sets.
 
 "The whole tournament I've been a little bit sore. But I tried my best right to the end. Gave everything I had. I wasn't going to do any major damage by playing. So obviously I wanted to try if possible find a way at the end. Obviously it wasn't the case," he said.
 
 Murray refused to go into the details of his injury, only saying the hip has always been an issue in his career. "I'm not going to go into all the details of exactly what my hip issues are. I've been dealing with it for a very long time during my career."
 
 
 Three-time Wimbledon champion  , who has long battled a troublesome elbow, retired midway through his quarterfinal clash against the 11th-seeded Czech Tomas Berdych. Berdych won the first set in a tie-break and was leading 2-0 in the second when his opponent threw in the towel after 63 minutes of play.
 
 
