KOZHIKODE: Peruvayal, a   bordering the   is bearing the brunt of the excessive inflow of   and other families to the city corporation for job. As the cost of accommodation in the city limit is too high for migrant workmen force and small income families, many reach nearby panchayats in search of low cost accommodation.

 Residents of Peruvayal are the major victims of the trend. As a number of shop rooms and small houses and apartments are rented by contractors for accommodating groups of labourers, sanitation and hygiene facilities are not taken care causing   to residents.
 
 "The situation here is too bad. The persons who come on accommodation and those who provide the accommodation are not bothered about sanitation and other issues, said K Sathyan, a resident. Many families and others who come and reside in the panchayat throw away plastic waste and other garbage at public place paving way for epidemic outbreak, he added.
 
 The panchayat authorities also consider the inflow of workforce from   to the grama panchayat a key cause of concern.
 
 Many persons from Kozhikode city limit and other persons have purchased land in the panchayat limit to construct low cost apartments to accommodate migrant work force and other groups, said an official with the grama panchayat. These land owners provide accommodation to dozens of migrant workers in one or two room apartments without arranging proper waste disposal and sanitation facilities, he added.
 
 Over 25 small apartment complexes, each comprising four or six small houses, were constructed in the panchayat limit in the past two years. In the absence of proper waste disposal mechanism, residents of majority of these apartments dump waste water into nearby water resources or to public land.
 
 The Peruvayal panchayat authorities have recently launched special drive to make waste treatment plants compulsory for apartments, said P K Sharafuddin, chairman of health standing committee. Actions have also been started against the accommodation of workers in shop rooms as water bodies in the panchayat are being polluted, he added. A survey was conducted recently to study the impact, he added.
 
 Besides, verbal clashes between the migrant community and local people over various issues also is common in Peruvayal. Disagreement over the price of products, collection of water from public taps, spending idle time on lanes and village roads during evening hours are questioned by the local people.
 
 People are worried about the increasing presence of migrants as a number of theft, sexual assault and other cases are registered against migrants across the state, said P Rajan, a resident. 
 
