Mysuru: Thanks to the  , travellers are making a beeline to the tourist hub with thousands of visitors still flocking into the  .

 The palace comes next in terms of number of visitors after the Madame Tussauds wax museum in London.
 
 The weekend crowd accounted for 42.37 per cent of the total 94,169 travellers who visited the palace during Navaratri. The 125-year-old conservation centre witnessed a record tourist flow this season by logging 31,722 visitors in a single day, which is the highest in four years. Given that tourism accounts for 15 per cent of Mysuru’s GDP, according to a CII study, it is a welcome relief.
 
 Christine from Norway, who visited the zoo on Sunday, told TOI, “The zoo was overcrowded, but we did manage to have a great time at one of the oldest zoos in the country and are glad to have visited it.”
 
 On September 29, the zoo received 15,449 visitors, which almost doubled on Saturday. “Given the influx of visitors on Sunday, we might set another record,” a zoo staffer said.
 
 The flow of visitors started in early September, which peaked in the last weekend after the start of  . Due to the extended weekend, the city and its surroundings are now hit by travellers leading to choking of vehicular movement in the central business district.
 
 Even homestays in the vicinity of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, which is 60 km away from the city, were packed. “Since September, the booking was good. But we were chock-o-block during the last weekend, mainly because people had additional holidays,” says an owner of a homestay near Bandipur.
 
 No. of foreign visitors on the decline?
 
 Is the number of foreigners visiting Mysuru dwindling? Going by the tourist data available with the Mysuru Palace Board, it is.
 
 While 94,169 travellers visited the Mysuru Palace, foreigners accounted for just 0.62%. During Navaratri, the palace received 586 overseas tourists.
 
 Stakeholders in the tourism sector blamed it on the lack of planning and marketing. B S Prashanth, president of Mysuru Travels Association, said: “The tourists’ flow is positive this season. We have more number of domestic travellers. But visitors from overseas are abysmal. This is because there is no publicity.”
 
 He said the officials take time to finalise the events and publicize it, which has put off the travellers from abroad. They plan at least three months in advance and would like to know what will they get to witness if they are in Mysuru during that particular time, he pointed out. 
 
 
