BENGALURU:   is co-host of   2017, chief minister Siddaramaiah will take the stage at the inaugural and the state government will have its stall at the biennial show.

 But the man stealing the thunder will be   chief minister  , who has a clear plan: round up the world’s top CEOs and hard sell what his government calls ‘Sunrise in Andhra Pradesh’. Making the most of the Aero India opportunity, the Andhra Pradesh government will be hosting the Global CEOs Conference, which is likely to be attended by the who’s who of the global defence and aerospace sector.
 
 This is not Naidu’s first coup bid: In 2015, he had touched down in Bengaluru, his eyes set on Rs 3,000 crore business in the sector and garnered a great deal of attention at Aero India.
 
 With 279 foreign firms and a host of top delegates from various countries participating this year, Naidu will be making a renewed pitch to global CEOs — with the  , close to Visakhapatnam, being the major focus.
 
 The Aerotropolis project, which Naidu has been speaking about for the past two years, is expected to host an international airport, an aviation/aerospace academy and an MRO facility. And several companies have already shown interest in the airport project there.
 
 Karnataka, which is hosting a Make in Karnataka conference on Monday and Tuesday outside Aero India, is not concerned, though. A source in the government said that the state is holding talks with whom it matters, and that nothing will be lost.
 
 The Andhra Pradesh conference will see participation from some big names in the defence industry, vying for projects in India. Karnataka, which was the first state in the country to have an exclusive aerospace policy, says it has a better ecosystem than AP and that big firms don’t always look only for incentives.
 
 “Different states have different attitudes. Of course, marketing helps. But one must understand that just doling out incentives will not fetch big deals involving serious companies. They look for manpower, other infrastructure and an ecosystem that can support them in the long run, all of which Karnataka provides,” commerce and industries department additional chief secretary D V Prasad said.
 
 Stating that Karnataka has been meeting with CEOs and other delegates from various countries, he said: “There is no need for us to imitate any other state.” Another senior officer said that Andhra is over aggressive as it needs to start from scratch so far as aerospace and defence goes, after losing Hyderabad to Telangana.
 
 
