 begins the show by providing a peek into Aham TV. Day 20 at the Big Boss house kick-starts with   punishing Raiza for speaking in English, which is against the rules of the house where she has been living for the last three weeks. Bigg Boss asks Raiza to put up a plaster around her mouth as punishment and asks Ganesh to monitor her. Bigg Boss also shows a video to the inmates where she continuously talks in English. Raiza takes the punishment sportively and adheres to the punishment.
 
  In the meantime, Shakthi is seen gossiping about the food made by the team. When he asks Julie about the lunch for the day, she says there are sambhar, soup, gravy and rice. When he asks if there was egg on the menu, Julie says that eggs were being added in the soup. Later, Gayathri is seen telling Namitha that Julie consumes most of the cheese and that she doesn’t care if others have had their share, too. Gayathri also tells Julie that she is the only one to have put on weight after coming to Bigg Boss house.
 
  
  Kamal Haasan catches up with the housemates and asks about how the week went in the Bigg Boss house. He poses questions to every member of the house. He asks Namita if the audience were indeed seeing her other side on the show. He asks Gayathri if she was treating everyone in the house the same way. He asks Oviya if she felt cornered by others and she replies in the affirmative. He later asks the men in the house to pick one best woman in the house and the vote goes to Raiza. On the other hand, women vote for Vaiyapuri. When asked why only three participants went to the confession room for the leader of the week and inmates immediately reply that that they had unanimously decided to pitch only three members for the role. However, Kamal asks Julie if she wasn’t interested and why she came running when the Bigg Boss called. She responds saying that she would like to be a leader in future.
 
 He later asks Gayathri if she has changed after coming to the house and why she is not able to control her anger. Gayathri takes this personally and discusses the issue with Snehan, Harathi and Namitha. Kamal Haasan then puts up a video where Gayathri is in the confession room and the Bigg Boss says that her health is normal. However, when she gets out of the confession room, she says that she is not healthy and hence, she has to consume chocolate powder. Kamal Haasan also plays videos of her getting irritated and angry and questions why she was behaving the way she was. Wait for tonight to see who gets eliminated from the house this week. 
 
 
  
 
