KOCHI: One out of six people in south India, over the age of 40, have a  . It is a small clump of cells that forms on the lining of the colon or rectum and most  . 

 But, some develop into cancer, shows a study conducted at a tertiary care private hospital in Kochi. Further, the risk of colorectal adenoma - benign glandular tumour of the colon and rectum - increased five-fold after 40.
 
 The study 'Prevalence of colorectal polyps: A retrospective study to determine the cut-off age for screening' - based on analysis of 1,604 patients who underwent colonoscopy from April 2009 to April 2014 at the Kochi-based hospital - was published in Journal of Gastroenterology, Pancreatology & Liver Disorders. 
 
 Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or   were excluded from the study because they have a higher prevalence of polyps. Colorectal cancer is the third-leading cause of cancer deaths in the   and United Kingdom. There are no significant data available in India.
 
 The timespan for the polyp to cancer transition process is believed to be 10 years and the early detection and removal of polyps is beneficial to prevent colorectal cancer.
 
 "Though in developed countries, the cut-off age for the appropriate screening of colonoscopy for colorectal cancer is 50 (if a person is in good health and there is no family history), in India, there is no such screening guidelines. But from the number of colorectal cancer we see in India, middle age is the smart age to go for a screening for those interested in preventing colorectal cancer," Dr  , department of gastroenterology, Sunrise Hospital, and one of the author of the study.
 
 Recognising the importance of early screening in prevention of colorectal cancer, the Indian Society of Gastroenterology (Kerala), in its special conference on gastro intestinal cancer has decided to discuss on, "Is it time for screening of polyps to prevent colorectal cancer in the long run?"
 
 "We believed that we don't have so much of colon cancer in India. But now the situation is changing and our experience shows that there is significant increase in patients with colon polyps," said Dr Benoy Sebastian, secretary of the association 
 
 The study further showed that polyps were detected in 11% of all patients and in 14.7% of patients over the age 40, of which 41.8% were adenomatous polyps. 
 
 Of the population screened, family history of polyps was seen in 2.93% patients but only six were diagnosed with polyps. Polyps were found in 2.3% patients in the age group below 30 years and 5.8% in the 30-40 years group. 
 
