MUMBAI: A youth's fascination with gold jewellery and his habit of flaunting them has cost him his life.  , son of a well-known Bandra paanwalla, was killed by three of his unemployed drinking pals in November to rob his valuables, said police.

 Shivshankar, 23, who also went by the name Nikunj, was found murdered -his head and face had been bashed in with stones--among bushes on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway at Kashimira on November 23.The Kashimira unit of the local crime branch has arrested three of Nikunj's friends -all unemployed--based on closed circuit television (CCTV) images captured in Bandra. They were held from their hometown in Bihar.
 
 Kamlesh Sahani, 26, Rupesh Sah, 25, and Mantu Patel, 30, had met him on November 23 evening in Bandra and spiked his liquor during a drinking session at Bandra Bandstand. When he passed out, they put him in a taxi and travelled to Kashimira. They got off near the bushes, murdered him and decamped with three gold chains, two rings and a bra celet -valued at over Rs 3 lakh -Nikunj was wearing at that time and Rs 10,000 from his wallet. Nikunj, who used to sometimes man his father  's aka Munna's paan shop near  , knew Rupesh, who had earlier worked as a security guard in a building adjacent to the shop. Rupesh's friends Kamlesh and Mantu were introduced to Nikunj over time and the four used to meet over drinks at Bandra. Nikunj would foot the bill. His parents were not aware of his closeness with the three accused, said crime branch inspector Praful Wagh.
 
 Nikunj loved wearing gold ornaments and had showed off his new gold chain purchased for Diwali. Kamlesh, who had earlier worked as a security guard in Mira Road, hatched the plan. Rupesh and Mantu, who were in Lucknow, arrived at Kamlesh's Nalasopara home a day before the crime. The sedative was purchased from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “The accused ensured they did not have any cellphone conversation among themselves or with the victim. They communicated in person,“ said investigating officer Abhijeet Tailor.
 
 
