HYDERABAD: The sleepy hamlet of Dhulapally near   on the city outskirts reverberated with the roar of bikes on Saturday evening as Biking Queens, a 35-member all-women biker group from Gujarat, drove into the   to raise awareness about the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign. 

 The riders, who hail from Surat, interacted with the enthusiastic students on a range of topics — from girl child education to women empowerment while distributing note books, bags and sanitary kits before bidding farewell.
 
 Kicking off their journey from the Diamond City on July 19, the group reached Hyderabad as part of an ambitious 10,000-km ride, covering 15 states to popularise the Central government campaign. They were accorded a warm reception by members of the city’s   who escorted them to the venue.
 
 Biking Queens will visit 6,000 far-flung hamlets across the country before culminating their journey on August 15 by hoisting the tricolour on India’s highest motorable road, Khardung La, in Jammu and Kashmir, said Dr   Mehta, who is leading the mission.
 
 “I am overwhelmed by the warmth and affection of the people who we met and interacted after criss-crossing eight states. Rural folk seem happy despite being poor, living without electricity and cooking gas and toiling hard day and night, in stark contrast to city people who are unhappy despite enjoying all luxuries of modern life. After speaking to women from deprived backgrounds, I feel like we have known each other since forever,” said Sarika, a psychologist who founded the group in 2015.
 
 She added that biking is an activity that will liberate women and also help change the public perception of female riders in the country. The team underwent rigorous three-month training before the expedition kick-started. All the members are in the 19-42 age group that includes working women, mothers and students.
  
 Sona Mukhwana, the youngest member of the group at 19, said it was a dream come true to be part of this awareness campaign and it is all thanks to her parents who allowed her to go on such an adventurous trip. “When I see school children smiling, it just lights up my day,” said the commerce student.
 
 Bhavi Gheewala, (24), who calls herself a passionate biker, said, “Biking is an art and it just springs up many unexplored opportunities by opening up our imagination. It liberates our souls by instilling new confidence. It allows me to live and enjoy my life the way I wish. Since this drive is for a social cause, it always motivates me to undertake challenges on the way positively and face all hurdles bravely and with a smile.”
 
 Ankita Desai (26), who is the only child of her parents, said the drive is dedicated to them, “It was my dream to be part of the cause of girl child education and women empowerment.”
 The group heads to Nagpur after crossing   on Sunday. They will make their way back to North India by reaching Delhi and head to Leh and Ladakh.
 
