The infamous Delhi-NCR smog from last year might be old news for most residents now, but the two flower shows taking place in Noida and Greater Noida this month plan to bring the issue of air pollution back, with the help of anti-smog plants. Two flower shows are taking place in February in the twin cities. The Greater Noida Flower Show is happening over this weekend (February 18-19) in Greater Noida’s City Park, while Noida   will take place next week (February 24-26) at Noida Stadium. While both the flower shows have separate themes – pansy and marigold, respectively – they are connected by an increased emphasis on anti-pollution and anti-smog plants. Both the shows will have separate sections for display and sale of these anti-smog plants and will give away free pots of these plants to many visitors as well.

  
  
 
 Organisers of the Greater Noida Flower Show,  , have earmarked a separate section of the show for herbal and anti-smog plants.  , senior manager (horticulture),  , says, “We have a separate area for anti-smog plants, where the nursery stall owners from Noida and other parts of NCR will sell these anti-smog and herbal plants. We will promote this at the show itself to make sure that the visitors are aware of this. The demand for such plants was high in the surveys we conducted before planning for the show.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Similarly, Noida Basant Utsav – jointly organized by the Noida Authority and the   – has a similar section planned. The organizers will also be giving out literature to the visitors spreading awareness about such plants. “After the focus on the smog and pollution in the media last year and the problems faced by all of us throughout, we felt this was the need of the hour. The Noida Authority officials suggested that we take this up prominently, so we are not only setting up a special section for the display and sale of these plants but have also prepared thousands of pamphlets and booklets about these anti-smog plants, which we will distribute among the visitors at the show. People need to know about these plants because this is an economical way of keeping the air of your house clean. If you have half a dozen of these plants in your house, you don’t need any air purifier,” says  , general secretary, Noida Floriculture Society. The Basant Utsav had also kept a specified area for anti-pollution plants at last year’s edition, but the organizers say that this year, it will be much bigger and more extensive, with more varieties of these plants available.
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 In addition, organizers of both the shows will be giving out these plants to all the students visiting the show and competing in the various competitions organized there. Almost 3,000 students from the schools of Noida and Greater Noida will participate in competitions like street play, dance, painting, etc at the Greater Noida Flower Show. The Noida Basant Utsav will also see the participation of over 500 school students in various competitions. Organisers are preparing pots of these air purifying plants, which will be given along with the participation certificates to all students.
 
 
  
  A pamphlet from the flower show showing plants which help purify air (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
