CHENNAI: The swelling crowds at the hunger strike venues of the OPS faction across   on Wednesday could well be an indication of the prevailing anti-Sasikala sentiment in the state. Strategically,   has positioned himself as the true heir of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. By keeping up the momentum of a campaign for a probe into her death, the OPS camp hopes to cash in on the possible anti-Sasikala polarization. 

 But, despite the build-up, the agitation had few highlights and the brief speech by Panneerselvam to mark the end of the hunger strike at 5pm had none of the promised dramatic revelations. At the Chennai venue, AIADMK cadres from all constituencies of the city were present. Party sources, however, say that morale was high considering the high turnout of cadres and sympathisers at every protest venue across the state.
 
 There were attempts by the AIADMK camp to divert attention from the OPS event finale. At around 5pm, state social welfare minister V Saroja told reporters that the medical reports released by the government should effectively silence critics. Around the same time, party deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran issued a statement against DMK working president M K Stalin. But, it failed to dampen the spirit in the Panneerselvam camp. OPS loyalists now hope more MLAs would switch camps. 
 
 At all the 36 venues, thousands of cadres congregated. It was much more than they expected, point out leaders. "In Avadi, I expected the crowd to be around 6000 but the number exceeded 8,500. All of them wanted us to persist with our demand for a   enquiry," OPS backer and   K Pandiarajan told TOI soon after the fast protest ended.
 
 Thevar outfit All India Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam chief N Sethuraman, who has teamed up with OPS, created a flutter at the protest venue when he alleged that "the conspiracy to capture power began at least six months prior to Jayalalithaa's admission to hospital". 
 
 The factional fight is likely to escalate after Wednesday's protest. 
 
 "We are waiting for the   to give a ruling in our favour to our petition against  's appointment as AIADMK general secretary," said Pandiarajan. 
 
 The next move would be to seek allotment of the party's two-leaves symbol. "This will prove we are the original AIADMK," he said.
 
 In the do-or-die battle, it is crucial for OPS not only to keep his small flock together, but also continue to fan the anti-Sasikala sentiments. For the new AIADMK deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran, his supporters have planned a cadre/people darshan tour to tell their side of the story.
 
