GUWAHATI: New bus stops and routes are among several measures to be adopted by the Kamrup (Metro) district administration and the district transport office (DTO) to improve traffic movement and ensure  . 

 Along National Highway 37 from Jalukbari to Khanapara, the DTO has identified 22 spots for bus ways, said a press statement issued by the metro administration. It has also decided to ask transport associations to ply buses on routes like the   (Paltan Bazar), Garchuk-Fatasil Ambari, Gosala-Maligaon and Narengi-Sixmile.
 
 "Unauthorized bus stops will be removed within 60 days," the administration has said. Besides, no new permits will be issued for share taxis and city buses from April 1 till further notice. 
 
 In a bid to check pollution, it has been decided that diesel-run autos will not be allowed to ply in the   (GMC) area and that e-rickshaws will be allowed to ply only as a last mile connectivity. "All e-rickshaws should be registered within May 30. Assembling of foreign-made e-rickshaws will also have to be inspected by the transport department," said the statement.
 
 Deputy commissioner M Angamuthu ordered the DTO to take the initiative of planning routes for e-rickshaws and regulating their permits. 
 
 Angamuthu, who is also the chairman of the  , said regarding safety norms, the RTA will follow the Supreme Court directions because student lives are involved.
 
 "Within 30 days, the transport department will inspect school buses. In this context, the onus is on the principals of the schools concerned. We will ask all the schools to do full compliance. Safety and security are of paramount importance. Road worthiness and fire safety standards will also be assessed," said Angamuthu.
 
 Almost 300 school buses have been seized by the transport department as of now. "The parking space is also to be provided by the school authority and a period of 60 days will be allowed to the schools to identify the pick-up and drop points for students who use their parents' vehicles to school," said a transport official.
 
 
