 ( ): The home ministry has decided to constitute a high-level expert committee to study various issues relating to 3488-km India-China border, including poor infrastructure and measures to integrate border population with the mainstream with development measures.

 Union home minister  , during a visit to Mana border outpost (BoP) in Uttarakhand, told TOI that “the expert group will analyse all aspects related to the India-China border”.
 
 The move comes over a month after the resolution of Doklam stand-off which saw Indian and Chinese troops in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation for nearly ten weeks over Beijing’s attempt to construct a road in the disputed area. The Centre had earlier formed expert study groups to analyse problems at borders with Pakistan, Bangladesh and very recently with Myanmar.
 
 A parliamentary panel on ‘border management’ had this year stated that “infrastructure on the Chinese side of the India-China border is far better than that on the Indian side”, while asking the government to fast-track border projects.
 
 It had said ITBP troops needed to be provided with permanent integrated buildings at high altitude BoPs to improve their operational efficiency.
 
 The parliamentary panel had also recommended construction of more helipads in forward locations “without any delay” so that troops can get supplies in time. Presently, ITBP troops in forward posts, which are located at altitude of over 9000 feet and are covered with snow for almost six months, have to use mules and it takes days for replenishment to reach their camps. Of the ITBP BoPs, 81 are located at a height of more than 12000 feet and 20 at a height of more than 15000 feet and only limited patrolling is possible due to excessive gaps, hilly terrain and lack of roads.
 
 The parliamentary panel had also asked the MHA to chalk out a plan to create a dedicated air wing of ITBP and procure a minimal fleet of helicopters and planes as per its requirements.
 
 Officials told TOI that giving a dedicated air wing to ITBP was not possible because of maintenance issues, but all these aspects will be studied by MHA’s expert group.
 
 The MHA group will also study how to provide basic facilities like water, electricity, telephone, bridges, tracks and foot suspension bridges wherever possible in high altitude BoPs.
 
 Rajnath Singh had on Saturday called the border population ‘strategic assets’, while assuring development of the areas.
 
 
