PUNE: Sunday morning in Aundh ended on a delightful note for the diverse crowd that assembled to be a part of the second outing of Happy Streets. 

 People from all age groups gave up their slumber to attend the three-hour long event at ITI Road, where they strolled through vehicle-free stretches and caught up with friends and health enthusiasts. 
 
 As soon as the clock ticked 6.30am, numbers went up with morning walkers, cyclists, student groups and scores of local residents flocking to the venue for an early dose of fun and relaxation.
 
 The start of dance music was the magnet that drew out many in no time, all gathering around the stage to shake a leg and sway to the beats, matching steps with the instructors who introduced fun and easy steps to allow participants of all age groups to enjoy the activity with popular Bollywood and western numbers drawing cheers as well as excitement from the crowd. 
 
 Children had a gala time skating, playing badminton and tug-of-war. While some groups participated in activities promoting recycled and reused objects, fitness enthusiasts tested their mettle at Multifit gym’s cross training set up. 
 
 For those who didn’t bring along their rides, rentfree cycles were available at the venue. Many were glued to the photo booth, yoga corner and chalk art. 
 
 Abhay Raghuvanshi, who came all the way from Hinjewadi Phase III, said, “I read about it in the paper so thought to check it out. I am glad I brought along my son. Since there are no vehicles on the road, I don’t have to worry about accidents. My son is enjoying here, so I am happy.” 
 
 Fifteen-year-old Samruddhi Baliga said, “It’s a great way to kick-start a Sunday morning. I have been interested in dancing and all the other activities.” 
 
 Shreyas Gaikwad of   said, “We adore the ambience and positive energy Happy Streets event brings on Sundays. I love the Happy Streets is organised by The   and   in association with the Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and the   with an aim to popularise vehicle-free roads and community endeavours. dance activities as well.” 
 
 The venue is free of vehicle pollution too, added his friend Kunal Kangankar from Pimple Gurav. “People can relax and exercise without fear,” he said. The event’s last edition in Aundh will be held next Sunday.
 
