NEW DELHI: In a boost to Centre’s efforts to get judicial sanction on its ban on Zakir Naik’s   ( ), the Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a plea by the organisation challenging the move.

 While dismissing the petition the   said the Centre’s decision to ban IRF appeared to have been taken to safeguard national security and was not arbitrary.
 
 A   is already examining Centre’s documentary and other evidence against Naik to find out if enough grounds exist to ban it and freeze its funding related accounts.
 
 “The decision by the   was taken in the interest to safeguard the sovereignty, integrity and national security of India,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva noted in his order, saying that the government did “apply its mind” before it decided to ban the organisation with immediate effect.
 
 HC pointed out that the government had reasonable apprehensions that youths could be “radicalised” to join terror groups if IRF is allowed to continue in its allegedly anti national activities.
 
 During the hearings, the government had produced before the court material available with it on whose basis it took the decision.
 
 IRF, in its plea, had challenged the November 17, 2016, notification of the home ministry imposing an immediate ban on the organisation under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).
 
 Meanwhile, the high court made it clear that the tribunal, set up under the UAPA shall not get influenced by the findings of Thursdays verdict and decide the issue before it on merit.
 
 IRF had argued that the   notification gave no reason and cited no material for the ban. The organisation also said the immediate ban was imposed without giving it any show cause notice.
 
 Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, however, maintained that the need to take urgent steps arose from an apprehension that Indian youths could be “radicalised” or “motivated” by the alleged statements and speeches made by IRF and its members, including its President Naik, to join terror groups like  , which is a cause of global concern.
 
 The Centre had earlier told the high court that as per the notification, Naik also stands accused of issuing statements “derogatory of other religions” and “spreading communal disharmony”.
 
