Every year, in the month of September, a small stretch of MG Road in Sector 14 turns into an unusual street market, where about 20 artisans sell Ravana effigies. Ranging from 5 feet to over 40 feet in size, the effigies are on display on the roadside and cater to a lot of buyers - from Ramlilas across NCR to RWAs and individuals.

  The market is set up only during the Navaratras, but the preparation begins right after Raksha Bandhan. Shivam, one of the sellers in the makeshift market, tells us, "We start building these around Raksha Bandhan because it takes about four-five days to complete one effigy and we make several dozen in advance."
 
  
  Artists assemble the effigies (BCCL)
 
  Shivam adds, "The ones prepared in advance are from five to 15 feet in height. The bigger ones are prepared on special order."
 
  Most sellers here have 15-20 readymade Ravana effigies available for sale and can be customized as per the customer's demands. The Ravanas are available in a number of colours, but sellers say that the colour usually doesn't matter. Vinod, another seller, says, "We make the basic structure and if the customer asks for a specific colour or decoration, we add that. However, usually, customers just go according to the size. The colour is just for show, it doesn't affect sales."
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  The customers of these Ravana effigies include ramlilas in Gurgaon and Delhi, as well as the RWAs. "Most of the ramlilas in Gurgaon and even some in Delhi order their Ravanas here. The ramlilas want effigies bigger than 25-30 feet, which they order in advance. But smaller Ravanas are available at any time during Navaratra. Smaller societies, RWAs, and individuals opt for those. The most popular ones this year are the 8-feet Ravanas," says Chhote Lal, an artisan from the city. Spare parts for the effigies are kept handy for quick repair work, in case the weather (or traffic) damages any effigy.
 
  
  RAAVAN'S AUTO RIDE: Customers taking effigies in an auto rickshaw (BCCL)
 
 
  With more artisans in the market this year than the previous years, the prices of these effigies have gone down. Pradeep, who was applying finishing touches to the head of a 35-feet Ravana, said, "This year, the prices have dipped because there are more sellers than usual. Competition zyada hai toh log kam mein hi bech rahe hain. A 15-foot Ravana would go for Rs15,000 last year, but this year, it is available for Rs10,000. The price of the bigger Ravanas are unaffected kyunki woh limited log hi banate hain." A 6-feet Ravana is available in the market for Rs3500, 8-feet one for Rs6,000, while a 15-feet one sells for Rs10,000. Of course, the prices are subject to one’s bargaining powers. Ajay, a south Delhi resident who bought a 6-feet Ravana from the market, says, "The Ravanas available here are cheaper than the ones in Delhi. Wahan bade Ravana milte hain. If you want the smaller ones, this is a good place."
 
 
  
  The head of the 35-feet Ravana
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
