NEW DELHI: Former India captain MS Dhoni, wicketkeeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik and players from Jharkhand and   had a scare when the   hotel, where the teams were staying, caught fire on Friday morning.

 All guests were safely evacuated as 30 fire tenders battled for two hours to control the blaze that broke out around 6am at a grocery store on the ground floor. The fire was doused before it could reach the fourth floor, from where the premises of WelcomHotel begin and go up to the 12th floor.
 
 It is learned that the players and officials had no idea about the fire till smoke filled the rooms and galleries. No alarms went off, they said. Dhoni was at the breakfast table when the smoke got very heavy.
 
 “As I opened the door of my room, I saw thick smoke. All players were texting each other and came out of the hotel. Mahi bhai was with us and ensured we didn't panic,“ Jharkhand's leftarm spinner, Shahbaz Nadeem, told TOI. The team's match against Bengal was postponed. Jharkhand's match against Bengal, which was to start at 9am at the Air Force ground, Palam, was called off due to the fire and will be now played at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Saturday . Tamil   has already qualified for the final. “Our belongings are safe and we got our kit bags later in the afternoon,“   said.
 
 Tapash Chatterjee, member of  's grounds and pitches committee, told TOI that he heard no fire alarms.
 
 “Around 7.30am, when I went in to bathe, all of a sudden there was a lot of smoke. I rushed out of the bathroom, picked up my valuables and got out of the room to see dense smoke in the corridor.You could barely see beyond 10 metres,“ Chatterjee said.
 
 “They then switched off the lights and lifts. The teams ran out and luckily , we are all safe. The kit bags of the Jharkhand team were left behind,“ he said. With the kit bags of the players left behind in the rooms, Dhoni rushed to the ground immediately and discussed the matter with the match referee. The Bengal team was already at the venue. Minutes before the scheduled start of the game, it was officially decided that the match had to be postponed.
 
 Hotel staff confirmed that the fire began from a grocery store on the ground floor and was doused before it could spread to the fourth floor, from where the hotel premises begin. A senior fire official said that the fire began at the Re liance Trends store, after short circuit inside their server room and the smoke soon spread to the upper floors.
 
 While the Jharkhand players were all up to get ready for the match, most of the Tamil Nadu players were asleep.“We didn't know that such a thing had happened around 7am. Even before we realized it, rescue operations had begun in the mall. Most of us weren't aware as we had only an optional practice session. It was Indrajith, my roommate, who woke me up with news,“ Tamil Nadu opener V Ganga Sridhar Raju said.
 
 “The alarms didn't go off either. We were a bit shaken.From the eighth to the fourth floor we couldn't see anything and somehow we managed to come down,“ Raju said.
 
 The hotel, located in Sector 10 of Dwarka, houses 384 rooms, most of which were occupied. Sources said Dhoni and other players were staying on the eighth and ninth floors. “The second semi-final of Vijay Hazare Trophy 201617 between Jharkhand and Bengal and the final have been rescheduled due to a fire accident which happened in the hotel where the teams were staying, due to which the players were not in a position to play the match,“ the BCCI said in a statement.
 
 A source said there were 540 people inside the hotel when the fire broke out and all were rescued. “In keeping with our safety guidelines, we evacuated all our guests,“ said Rishiraj Singh, general manager and hotel spokesperson.
 
