From chanting casteist slogans like `Tilak tarazu aur talwar ...inko maaro joote chaar' in 1989 to `Haathi nahin Ganesh hai...Brahma Vishnu Mahesh hai' in 2007 and from `Sarvajan Hitaay Sarvajan Sukhay' in 2012 to `Jiski jitni bhaagidari...uski utni hissedari' in 2014, the   has come a long way . This time, the party has coined a new slogan: `BSP ki kya pehchan...neela jhanda haathi nishan'.

 The slogan, which was first coined after Dalit leader Kanshiram formed the party on April 14, 1984 is a choice, probably in view of the recent   order against seeking votes on the basis of caste and religion. Party leaders insist it is the only official slogan. But BSP supporters have come up with a noncasteist yet political slogan: `Haathi soond hilayega...cycle, kamal aur panje ko kuchalkar phir se BSP sarkar banayega.' “The party has abandoned all its caste-specific slogans,“ said a senior party leader.
 
 Soon after he formed BSP, Kanshiram launched a tirade against upper castes to consolidate Dalits who were siding with the Congress.The appeal drew support even as a new slogan was coined--`Baba (Ambedkar) tera kaam adhoora, Kanshiram karenge poora'.
 
 “The party made an emotional appeal to Dalits by pitching them against the upper castes. That worked over a period of time as BSP managed to drive away Dalits and turned them into its core vote base,“ says SR Darapuri, a commentator on Dalit politics.Just before 1989 assembly elec tions, a slogan slamming the upper castes, `Tilak Tarazu Aur Talwar ...Inko Maaro Joote Chaar', was heard at BSP rallies.   later denied it being a BSP slogan.
 
 In 1993, when BSP allied with SP , the slogan was: “Mile Mulayam, Kanshiram, Hawa mein ud gaye Jai Shree Ram“ to counter Hindutva card of the BJP during the Ram Temple movement. The SP-BSP combine formed government with Mulayam Singh Yadav as chief minister till the alliance broke in 1995.
 
 In an attempt to look beyond Dalits and woo OBCs and Muslims, a slogan bracketed away the Hindu saying `Brahmin, Thakur , Bania chor , baaqi sub hain DS4'.DS4 was an abbreviation for Dalit Samaj Swabhiman Sangharsh Samiti. It worked and in 1996 assembly elections, BSP won 67 seats.
 
 In 2002 polls, BSP tried to woo Vaishyas and Thakurs, while staying away from Brahmins. In came a slogan: `Brahmin saaf, Thakur half, Bania maaf '.
 
 In 2007, Mayawati came up with a social engineering formula and tried to woo Brahmins. The slogans went: `Haathi Nahi Ganesh Brahma Vishnu Mahesh Hai' and `Brahman shankh bajayega Haathi badhta jaayega'.
 
 In 2012, BSP tried to project itself as an inclusive party . The new slogan was `Jiski jitni bhaagidari...uski utni hissedaari'. But BSP was ousted.
 
