Jaipur: The state government employees may have to wait longer to receive salaries under the seventh pay commission, as the committee constituted to make recommendation on it is likely to miss the deadline once again.

 A ministerial sub-committee formed to review pay anomalies in grade pay Rs 2800 to grade pay Rs 4800 has not met even once so far. The sub-committee has to hear the grievances of aggrieved parties and submit its report to the   department. 
 
 According to the officials, unless the finance department receives the report, the committee headed by retired bureaucrat DC Samant for recommending seventh pay commission will not be able to finalize the pay fixation.
 
 “The ministerial sub-committee will first send its recommendation to the finance department, which in turn will forward it to the DC Samant committee,” said an official from the finance department. “Unless that happens, it will not be possible for the Samant committee to make recommendations as per 7th pay commission,” added the official.
 
 Under the said grade pay, more than 50,000 government employees from 27 different cadres are being affected. 
 
 Based on the present circumstances, the committee’s tenure is likely to be extended for the third time. Initially, the committee was given a time of three months to submit its report. It started functioning on March 7 and the term was to end on June 7. However, it requested for an extension of one month, mentioning that the report in the process of completion. Its tensure was last extended till August 15. 
 
 The committee’s mandate is to remove anomalies in salaries of employees while implementing the 7th Pay Commission. It was asked to make an estimate of financial burden on the exchequer and recommend new pay scales for the state government employees.
 
 There are more than 7 lakh employees and about 3 lakh pensioners in the state. As per an estimate, the government will have to spend between Rs 9,000 to Rs 10,000 crore in giving salaries and allowances under the 7th pay commission if all the recommendations are accepted.
 
 
