MUMBAI: Potholes are a scourge for  , especially during the monsoon months, but the BMC seems to have taken only a half measure to address the issue. Despite finding cold mix   that lasted, come rain or heavy traffic, the BMC has imported only a small quantity that will not be enough for the entire city.

 Citing high cost, the country's richest civic body has bought only 38 tonnes of the fillers imported from Austria and Israel. Officials said the mix will be used only on arterial or VIP roads. It means potholes only on about 30% of Mum bai's 1,941 km road network will be filled with the mixtures that are touted as “permanent“ potholes fillers.
 
 During last year's trials, the two fillers were found intact during inspection of the potholes they were used to fill (see box). The companies claim these patented mixtures last through heavy rains and are not eroded despite heavy traffic movement.
 
 But this year too, much of the city will see the local and cheap “hot mix“ fillers used on potholes though they have not worked well year after year. Also, since the BMC has got the material for exclusive use on roads it maintains, crucial roads like Western Express Highway , Eastern Express Highway and Sion-Panvel Highway , which are maintai ned by other agencies, will not benefit.
 
 It is learnt that the BMC has sought expressions of interest for making a similar product in India for them at a lower cost. Sources said they are in talks with IIT-Bombay to help identify qualified parties.
 
 Over Thursday and Friday , the TOI accompanied civic engineers at Dadar's Raja Bade Chowk and on Mahapalika Marg opposite the BMC headquarters in Fort to witness how potholes were being filled differently using the new mixes.
 
 On Thursday afternoon, the engineers used SmartFill from Israel to fill a pothole at the traffic junction at Raja Bade chowk. The mixture was removed from 25kg tubs, poured into the pothole and the traffic opened up. “This is a form of close-grained bitumen mix and unlike the hot mix, does not need dry atmospheric condition,“ explained an engineer.Arepresentative of the company which imports SmartFill said the product is developed by recycling asphalt with certain other patented binders.
 
 MNS leader Sandeep Desh pande, who was present at the site, said the Raja Bade chowk is a crucial junction and faces heavy traffic flow. “The road leads to Shivaji Park in Dadar, towards Mahim-Bandra as well as Matunga and, therefore, potholes are known to recur. One has to wait and see how long this mixture sustains,“ said Deshpande. On Friday , the Austrian mix -Midas Touch -was used to fill a pothole opposite the civic headquarters. The mix just had to be poured out of 14kg pouches into the pothole.Traffic started as soon as the procedure was over. “This too does not require any levelling or compacting. We will lay the mixture, pour water over it and open traffic,“ said N Khandelwal, CEO of Eco Green Infrastructure and Development, which is importing the mix.
 
 The mix can sustain temperatures from -75 degree C up to -10 degrees C. “Unlike a hot mix which cannot be used when it's raining, in case of this, water becomes a raw material to help it settle faster,“ he added. The company has given a two-year guarantee that the mixture would not come off.
 
 Protests begin against alleged BMC harassment of RJ who ridiculed services
 
 Following the controversy over radio jockey Malishka's home being targeted by BMC officials after her parody on the civic body, NGOs Watchdog Foundation and Save Our Land, the Bombay East Indian Association and many other organizations are coming out in her support. They plan to wear Malishka masks and highlight the road conditions further by filling up potholes and distributing free balm bottles to motorists. On Friday, NGO Sahas Foundation organized a programme to draw rangoli around potholes on the Sion-Panvel Highway at Mankhurd in her support. TNN
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 Is the BMC short of funds that the imported pothole fillers found to have been highly effective will be used only on arterial roads and those which see maximum VIP movement?
 
 Why can't the entire city get the best material available?
 
 The civic body which is sitting on massive fixed deposits must end this discrimination and give all Mumbaikars the roads they have deserved for years but still haven't got.
 
