PUNE: The civic elections in February come at a stage when the city is looking at growth as an economic powerhouse with vast urbanization needs. 

 Estimates indicate that the city will need an investment of Rs 50,000 to Rs 55,000 crore in the next 15 years to meet infrastructural needs. Citizens’ votes in this election will set the course for Pune’s development.
 
 “Pune is an inclusive city but the cost of living is high and basic infrastructure like transport is poor while accommodation and health facilities are expensive. While more people will continue to migrate to the city, the basic infrastructure is going to fall short. The civic body has to perform better,” Yojana Yadav, a professional from Goa who has recently migrated to the city, said. 
 
 The   which is in power in the state and at the Centre has made development its main agenda and local leaders have roped in Prime Minister   and chief minister   to assure citizens that power to the party in Pune will usher in a new era. 
 
 The ruling   (NCP) is banking on its ten-year performance making Pune one of the ten cities under the Smart Cities Mission.
 
 The local BJP unit is all set to exploit its position and has already set the tone of the campaign that if elected, the party will get the city more funds from the state and the Centre. 
 
 “It is a fact that the BJP government in the state and at the Centre have accelerated development in the city. All pending projects including Pune metro,   and the development plan were cleared by our government. We need to take this momentum forward and the BJP is confident that Pune will vote for our candidates,” guardian minister Girish Bapat said.
 
 NCP’s city unit chief Vandana Chavan said her party has taken up every step to improve the city’s infrastructure. The party’s leader Ajit Pawar wants citizens to give them a complete majority to perform better. “In Pimpri Chinchwad, the NCP has a full majority and we have fulfilled all our promises to the voters. In Pune, we never got a majority and had to depend on other parties’ support. This has definitely slowed down development projects. Pune’s voters must hand us full power this time,” he added. 
 
 Congress’s city unit chief Ramesh Bagwe is confident that ‘secular’ forces will rule the city and there will be no place for ‘fundamentalist’ forces. “Pune is a peace-loving city and people will vote for Congress which has proved its credentials. Along with development, the social fabric of the city must remain intact,” he added.
 
 Pune’s metro project, development plan, bio-diversity project, garbage, water, traffic chaos, law and order will be on top of agenda of all political parties.
 
 “Votes must be for candidates who have some vision for the city. The young and educated must come out and participate in development. If we want a better place, we must raise these issues with candidates and vote for those who feel accountable,” IT professional Madhura Ghatge said.
 
 Water activist Aditi Deodhar said, “Citizens must vote for conscious corporators and follow the campaign process closely. This election will have an impact on our lives. Citizens must think critically and not vote for fancy promises like abundant water. We have to think and vote for candidates who will take sensitive and long-term political decisions.”
 
 
