
 

 Xerxes Desai was a dyed-in-the wool Bombaywallah who came to Bengaluru and never left.
 
 Over time, he created one of the city's iconic companies, Titan, and through its brands, transformed both the watch and jewellery industries in the country forever.
 
 Xerxes grew up in Mumbai and went to Oxford where he studied Politics, Economics and History. He was active in the Mumbai theatre scene and had a wide circle of friends.On his return from Oxford, Xerxes joined the prestigious   and started a career with what would be his only employer, the Tata Group.
 
 He found his own voice when he became the head of projects at the Taj during the time when the Taj Intercontinental tower was being built.He was later seconded to the City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra in what must have been one of the first Publicprivate Partnership projects in the country . He worked with his lifelong friend, Charles Correa, in creating the template for Navi Mumbai.Promoted to head the Tata Press, he developed a keen printer's eye that would be the bane of ad agencies, marketing teams and printers who tried to get slipshod work past him.
 
 But the small size and relative insignificance of Tata Press within the Tata Group instigated Xerxes into looking for new pastures. Encouraged and supported by his mentors, Jamshed Bhabha and Minoo Mody, Xerxes persuaded JRD Tata that the watch industry was an attractive opportunity. The crazy rules that governed industrial licencing in that era required the Tatas to set up a JV with a state government. They found that partner in Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation, TIDCO. TIDCO insisted that the factory be set up in a then emerging industrial hub at Hosur and that brought Xerxes and his 
 founding team here.
 
 I first met Xerxes in New York in 1992. By then, Titan and its founding MD were stars, having built a huge consumer brand that emphasised design, style, modern retailing and sophisticated advertising. For the eighties, when most companies just used the licence raj to produce goods for a scarcity plagued economy, everything that Titan did was revolutionary (and in the words of his critics unnecessary ­wasting money in advertising, as many would remark). But Xerxes had the vision and the conviction to believe that brands would become the new currency of the future.
 
 After a decade in India's then fledgling IT industry, the world of watches, design, brands, luxury and retail couldn't have been further from my mind. In offering me the opportunity to lead Titan's foray into international markets, Xerxes surprised me and certainly flabbergasted the prevailing hierarchy at Titan.My wife and I returned to India to a chorus of “But you are not a consumer marketing guy?“. They were right, I wasn't. What followed was a decade-long apprenticeship under a man who knew Art Deco from Art Nouveau, a Ulysse Nardin from a Gerald Genta, a fine Merlot from a Pinot, Jazz from the Blues and of course every little thing about dogs ­ his abiding passion and indulgence. It took hundreds of hours of bemused observation about the size and angle of a watch lug or the feel of a fabric or the minutiae of the serif of a logo before I began to appreciate the passion and the perfectionism of the man. Xerxes never set out to do anything that wasn't world class ­ not for him, excuses that this is India and jugaad will suffice. Hundreds of Titan alumni have since taken that same attention to detail, sense of style, aesthetics and design to countless other companies around the world.
 
 In every sense of the cliché, Xerxes was a Brown Sahib. But despite the tremendous divergence in background and habit, he was able to reach across culture, language and class to build lifelong relationships ­ whether with his predominantly Kannadiga team of engineers or the Tamilian workers at Hosur ­ everyone has his favourite Xerxes moment.Jayanthi and Venky Prasad, who took care of him in his later years, were a classic example of his ability to attract the loyalty and affection of people who were very different from him. And the genuine grief and the hero's farewell that he received on his death from his workers at Hosur were a testament to how much they cared for him.
 
 Like every human being, Xerxes too, was not without his foibles and idiosyncrasies. He ate his roast chicken but never finished his meal without some curd rice. He had his favourites and could be a formidable foe. Many who toiled alongside him in creating this wonderful company but later crossed swords with Xerxes have been written out of the company's history. Despite being a lifelong Tata man, when the guard changed at Bombay House, the Tata's forgot one of their greatest consumer marketing minds. Post retirement, he rekindled his interest in urban planning by being involved in the local RWA in Defence Colony and contributed to the conceptualisation of the Indian Institute of Human Settlements.
 
 How will the long sweep of history judge this unusual Bengalurean? Xerxes had a remarkable vision about the future and the courage to make bold bets ­ the gumption to take on and defeat HMT that had a market share of over 90 percent, the belief that he could create India's first mainstream consumer brand in international markets, build first corporate to enter the jewellery business, and much else. To those who complained that I wasn't a consumer marketer, I like to believe that as I went on to head marketing for the watch business and lead teams who resurrected the Titan brand, disengaged from Timex, launched the Sonata and Fastrack brands and later turned around the jewellery business, I too was an outrageous Xerxes bet that came good.
 
 Very rarely does a person get to change the course of an entire industry ­ Xerxes Desai irrevocably changed two industries in his lifetime and for that he must be remembered as an iconic Namma Bengalurean.
 
 
 
 
