PATNA: Patna University (PU) on Tuesday extended the last date of admission to both undergraduate and postgraduation courses till July 31. However, counselling for admission will be held only till July 30, said   registrar Rabindra Kumar.

 The principals of different colleges and heads of some postgraduate departments had requested the PU authorities to extend the last date of admission, which ended on Monday, at least by a week so that the vacant seats in some courses might be filled up. PU has already allowed the students to change the choice of college for admission against the vacant seats. 
 
 It may be mentioned here that while filling up the forms online, several students had opted for only one college as their choice. But they could not get a seat in that college due to lacking the desired marks in the entrance test. But now, they want to change their option as seats are vacant in some other colleges.
 
 PU also notified on Tuesday that induction meet for the new students in both UG and PG courses would be held on August 1 and the classes of new batches would start on August 2. 
 
 However, some PG departments organized induction meet on Tuesday itself as per the university’s earlier notification. Geological Survey of India’s former deputy director general Binod Kumar and director P K Sinha were the guests of honour at an induction meet held at PU geology department. PU pro-vice-chancellor Dolly Sinha and PU science faculty dean S K Srivastava were the guests at the Physics department’s induction meet.
 
 Meanwhile, PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh on Tuesday directed the superintendents of all hostels to ensure that not a single unauthorized person occupies a seat in any hostel from the new academic session. Addressing a meeting of the hostel superintendents here, the VC said in case of any problem, they must report the matter to the university authorities immediately for necessary action.
 
 The hostel superintendents were further directed to ensure regular supply of safe drinking water to the students and proper upkeep of all the hostels. Each hostel must have sufficient number of security guards and sweepers. The VC announced increase in monthly honorarium being paid to the hostel superintendents for the last several decades from Rs100 to Rs1000. PU students' welfare dean N K Jha also attended the meeting.
 
 Later, talking to a delegation of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad volunteers, the VC said the university was making efforts to conduct the students' union election at the earliest. He also assured the delegation of sympathetic consideration of all its other demands. He, however, sought cooperation from ABVP volunteers in keeping the campus clean.
 
 
