AHMEDABAD:   ( ) of   (GU) has decided to fail a student of BCom Semester 1, who had written abuses and expletives in answer sheet and has been barred to appear in next exam. The committee also decided to fail 144 out of 170 students who were earlier summoned for lapses such as cheating or writting expletives in their answer-sheets.

 Officials of the committee said that those 144 students were also barred from appearing in the next exam. Besides, six students were failed in the particular subject but they will be able to appear in the next exam. The result of two students has been kept pending by the committee.
 
 ERC officials said that a student of B Com Semester 1, who had written profanities in the answer sheet for statistics paper was also summoned before the committee on Friday.
 
 The student, who hails from Viramgam town, was present with his father. He sought apology for the misconduct and said that he had made the mistake as he was frustrated because he had not prepared well for the statistics paper. 
 
 “The student appeared along with his father, who is a small-time farmer in Viramgam,” an official of the committee said. “He and his father both had apologised for the misconduct and the student also wrote an apology letter stating that he would not make the same mistake in future.
 
 The student told the committee that he had written the abuses as he found the paper tough as he was not well-prepared and this made him feel frustrated. “His financial condition is also not good,” the official said.
 
 The official further said that the committee had considered his case and found that he was a bright student who had 60% marks in class 12 and he had never made such a mistake in the past. “We finally decided to fail the student and he will be barred from appearing in the next exam as well,” another official said. “But he will be able to take the Semester I statistics exam during the third semester. He is barred from appearing in the second semester exam but he can take the second semester exam during the fourth semester. This way he will not lose a year,”officials said.
 
