Mumbai: A special CBI court on Tuesday discharged former   top cop D G   in the alleged fake   cases in 2005 of Sohrabuddin Shaikh and his associate Tulsiram Prajapati on grounds of lack of evidence and absence of sanction to prosecute him. The court also discharged M N Dinesh, an IPS officer from the Rajasthan cadre. Their discharge comes two-and-a-half years after BJP chief Amit Shah was granted similar relief in the case in 2014.

 So far around 15 accused persons have been discharged in the case with over 20 others still facing trial.
 
 The CBI had charged former DIG and Gujarat ATS chief Vanzara as a key accused involved in Sohrabuddin’s murder conspiracy from the start. However, in a detailed order exonerating Vanzara, special judge Sunil Kumar J Sharma observed, “Considering the quality of material on record and taking into consideration the entire prosecution story, it is clear that there is no prima facie material against the accused to connect him to the abduction followed by killing of Sohrabuddin, Kausar Bi (Sohrabuddin’s wife) and Tulsiram Prajapati.”
 
 The court further stated that in the absence of evidence, the role attributed against both accused definitely came within the sphere of discharge of their official duty. The court also pointed out that the investigating agency had not sought sanction required to prosecute the duo as required under section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “The prosecution against the accused is dropped in absence of prior sanction of the government as required under 197 of CrPC,” the court held.
 
 Referring to Vanzara, the court held that “the prosecution had not whispered presence of this accused at the spot on the date and time of abduction followed by killing of Sohrabuddin, Kausar Bi and Tulsiram Prajapati”.
 
 “It is seen from the entire record of the case that there is no sufficient evidence on facts to indicate that there was meeting of minds in between accused and the other accused to abduct and kill…” the court observed. The court also said that the CBI mostly relied on the statements of witnesses which were hearsay in nature. “Witnesses just stated facts which they have learnt from the other co-accused and somewhere else. Even the statements of the co-accused do not in any way directly implicate the accused in the fake encounters,” the court observed.
 
 While Vanzara was not in the city, Dinesh was present before the court during the pronouncement of the order. The officers were represented by their advocates Hitesh Shah and Raja Thakare respectively.
 
 Vanzara was arrested on April 24, 2007, along with two other IPS officers, Rajkumar Pandian and Dinesh. Vanzara was granted bail by the Bombay high court only in 2014. He retired as DIG the same year. Dinesh is also alleged to have been part of the conspiracy and has been out on bail since 2014.
 
 Pointing out to the death of Kausar Bi, the court held that documents like the weekly diary and panchnama with regard to the spot where the body was burnt did not prima facie connect Vanzara to her alleged killing. “In fact, there is absolutely no iota of material as to when, where and who killed Kausar Bi. There is also no material collected from the spot like sand, ash, etc to say that the dead body was burnt. It was obligatory for the investigating agency to collect such material to establish the story of burning the dead body in the bed of the said river,” the court held.
 
 
