LUCKNOW: Chief Minister   on Saturday directed officials to shift tanneries in a phased manner. In December 2016, UP government had replied to   that relocating tanneries on the banks of Ganga at Kanpur to some other place was "next to impossible". 

 The CM was reviewing a meeting on the preparedness for Ardh Kumbh to be held in Allahabad in 2019. More than 12 crore pilgrims are expected to visit the Ardh Kumbh. To make Ganga pollution-free, the chief minister directed officials to ensure phase-wise shifting of leather industry units from Kannauj and Kanpur and to work on the lines of the Central government's 'Namami Gange' project. He stressed, it should be ensured at all costs that dirty and polluted water does not flow into the river.
 
 The chief minister also pointed out how near Roorkee, Ganga water is routed to several canals thereby reducing water level. For farmers, irrigation was necessary, while in urban areas, potable water was a necessity, he said and added that ponds should be dug under the MNREGA and water conserved so that water level in Ganga doesn't go down. He stressed implementation of projects that prevent flowing of dirty water into the river and come up with solutions for waste disposal.
 
 UP advocate general   had on December 5, 2016 told a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Swatantra Kumar that he had discussed the issue of tanneries with senior-most officials and had concluded there was no land available with the state government to shift them. 
 
 Currently, there are 404 tanneries in Kanpur, said   Sanjay Sharma, who has been associated with Namami Gange project. He added that   was identified for relocation of, though not much was done by the previous governments. 
 
 "...Almost 3 lakh people depend on this business which is spread over 3,000 acres of land in Jajmau and possibility of shifting these units to Banthar leather park at   is next to impossible as only 25% of them can be accommodated at the site," Singh had told the bench then. The chief minister on Saturday, however, also underlined that UP has a pivotal role in making the Namami Gange project a success. He also issued instructions for de-silting of rivers and said after this many rivers will be revived and there would be no scarcity of water.
 
 
