VARANASI: The   and three-time MLA from Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district   along with hundreds of party leaders and office bearers resigned from the party on Monday after he was denied ticket to contest the assembly election.

 Besides, leveling grave charges on SP supremo and chief minister   and SP general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, Mishra also alleged that he may be eliminated, as he knows their many secrets. "Fearing life threat from them I have also written to the President, Prime Minister, Home Minister and  ," he told to TOI. 
 
 "Succumbing to the pressure of my supporters and well-wishers I resigned from the party and decided to contest the election independently or on the symbol of other party. The picture will be clear in a day or two," said Mishra claiming that the denial of ticket to him would cost heavily to SP with complete elimination from several districts of this region including Bhadohi, Mirzapur, Allahabad, Sonbhadra, Kaushambi, Jaunpur and Varanasi.
 
 Replacing Mishra the SP, which released the list of candidates on Sunday just after the formal announcement of alliance with Congress, fielded Ramrati Bind from this seat. Mishra, an accused of bomb throwing on the then BSP minister Nond Gopal Nandi in 2010, won the Brahmin dominated Gyanpur seat in 2002, 2007 and 2012 assembly elections on SP ticket. He had contested 2012 assembly election from jail.
 
 A large number of party workers and supporters assembled at his residence in Dhanapur on Monday extending their support to him. 
 
 Besides a number of senior leaders including her MLC wife Ramlali Mishra, Sharda Prasad Bind and other senior leaders, the entire district unit quit the SP. He claimed that around 5000 SP supporters assembled at his house to extend their support to open front against the party.
 
 When asked what will be his next move, Mishra said, "It is clear that I will contest the election. Now whether I contest independently of with some other party will be decided shortly." His supported candidates will also contest the election against SP from others seats of this region, he said adding, "SP ka to supada saaf ho jayega in zilon mein" (SP will be nowhere in these districts). 
 
 On the reason behind the ticket denial, he said, "It is upon the party to decide the ticket, I came to know that the ticket was denied to me just because I had not given affidavit in support of Akhilesh. Ismein galat kya hai, maine to Netaji ( ) ko bhi affidavit nahi diya tha" (What is wrong in it, I had also not given affidavit in favour of Netaji). "If party thinks that I am a 'bahubali' (muscleman) why my name figured in earlier lists from both sides," he questioned.
 
 When asked why he fears threat on his life, Mishra said, "I worked with them for a long time, I know many secrets of 'chacha-bhajita' (Ramgopal Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav). I fear that conspiracy can be hatched to eliminate me, and I have intimated my fear to higher authorities including President, PM, home minister and ECI".
 
