LUCKNOW: The special CBI court deferred framing of charges in   demolition case against six Sangh Pariwar leaders as just one of them appeared before it on Thursday. The court now has asked them to appear in person on May 30 for framing of charges. Six other saffron leaders — L K  , former Union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, cabinet minister   , MP Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Vishnu Hari Dalmiya — would be charged for their role in the conspiracy behind Babri Masjid demolition on Friday.

 Out of of six accused -- Nritya Gopal Das, Ram Vilas Vendanti, Baikunth Lal Sharma, Champat Rai, Dharm Das, Satish Pradhan – who were to be present before the special CBI court for framing of conspiracy charges in Babri Masjid demolition case, only Pradhan turned up on Thursday while other sought exemption. 
 
 The court had directed on May 24 that it would frame charges against them on Thursday. However, on Thursday only Pradhan appeared before it and sought from the court that charges should be framed against him because he was ill and unable to walk . But the CBI judge S K Yadav said that since all the accused were not present, it was not possible to frame charges. The court directed these accused to remain present on May 30 as no further adjournment would be allowed.
 
 While the special CBI court had dropped conspiracy charged against the leaders in 2001, the Allahabad high court had upheld the order in 2010. The CBI, however, moved the   which in its April 19, 2017 order, asked the CBI court to add conspiracy charges against the accused in the trial.
 
 After the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, two FIRs were lodged. While Crime No. 197 dealt with “demolition of the mosque by kar sevaks”, crime No 198 named Advani, Joshi and 13 others Sangh Parivar leaders for inciting the mob through their speeches.
 
 The trial on the basis of the first FIR started at the special CBI court in Lucknow, while the case against 15 Sangh Pariwar leaders began at a special court in Rae Bareli. Two of them — Ashok Singhal and Giriraj Kishore — died during the trial.
 
 On April 19, 2017, while ordering restoration of conspiracy charges against the accused, the Supreme Court ordered that both the cases should be clubbed and a composite trial should be held at the Lucknow court. It also asked the court to start a day-to-day hearing and finish it within two years.
 
 
