AURANGABAD: The   cell’s decision to change the eligibility criteria for claiming the 15% all India   for engineering seats for the academic year 2017-18 has not gone down well with the students and parents among other stakeholders, who have termed it as a whimsical stand that would have an adverse impact on students. 

 Advocacy group Sajag Nagrik Manch has filed a written complaint with the State Higher and Technical Education department alleging that the government authorities were treating students like guinea pigs.
 
 Group activist and educational counsellor Vivek Velankar said that the frequent change in eligibility criteria for claiming 15% quota seats for engineering was highly condemnable. 
 
 “Till June 2015, the eligibility criteria for admissions to 15% under the all India quota seats in private unaided institutions was on the basis of the score of paper I of   Main. Last year, it was decided that the criteria for these admissions will be MH-CET score and not JEE score. So, assuming that the same would be followed this year, many students decided not to attempt JEE Main and started preparing MH-CET. But, the state CET cell has decided to accept JEE scores this year, ” he said. 
 
 Velankar said that the state CET cell informed them about the change in decision hardly a week before closing the applications for JEE Main. “While the application process for JEE ended on January 2, the state CET cell silently issued the controversial circular on December 23 last year,” he said, adding that the majority of students are still in dark about the eligibility criteria.
 
 Kalpesh Pathak, a HSC student, said he was not aware about any change in the eligibility criteria for claiming the 15% all India quota. 
 
 “It is shocking that the state CET cell has arrived at such an important decision in a clandestine way. The authorities do not have an iota of concern about students’ ordeal, if they have to prepare for JEE afresh three months before the exam. It takes atleast two years to prepare for the exam,” he said.
 
 Accusing the government authorities for its vacillating stand on an important matter, stakeholders said that such unmindful functioning would spell doom for students’ careers. 
 
 In a letter addressed to the government, advocacy group has also blamed the education department for taking ad-hoc decisions every year and thereby affecting the morale of students. 
 
 The director of state CET cell Chandrashekhar Oak could not be reached for his comments. 
 
