HYDERABAD: The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), was able to fill all 285   this year in the second phase of  . While last year, too, all seats were filled in subsequent rounds of seat allotment, in 2015, 13 seats were vacant even after the final round of counselling.

 Even top rankers preferred IIT-Hyderabad this year with the number of top 1,000 rankers having increased from 19 last year to 23 this year. 
 
 Like previous years, this year, too, the most preferred BTech course remained computer science and engineering, as all seats were filled in the first phase itself. 
 
 “IIT-Hyderabad has emerged as the forerunner among the JEE (joint entrance examination) candidates. IIT-Hyderabad’s computer science engineering department has set an impressive standard for the institute. It is only the beginning for the institute, which made it to the list of top 10 IITs in the NIRF (national institutional ranking framework) released early this year,” said UB Desai, director of IIT-H. 
 
 According to statistics by the joint seat allotment authority (Josaa), 97% seats in IIT-H were filled in first phase of seat allotment itself. The remaining 3% seats were filled in the second phase. All seats in computer science and materials science and metallurgical engineering were filled up in the first phase itself. The institute has 1,900 students and 160 faculty members with the ratio working out to be 12:1. 
 
 Interestingly, it is not just IIT-Hyderabad but seats in all the IITs have been filled up after the second phase of counselling. 
 
 The number of vacant seats has drastically come down, as only 399 seats are vacant in the third round of seat allotment, which was resumed after the   vacated its stay on the counselling process. 
 
 Among vacant seats, majority of them are in   in the north-eastern part of India. This year, the Josaa has also increased the number of counselling rounds from six to seven to ensure that all seats are filled. Meanwhile, the IIT-Hyderabad has introduced an all course MTech program from this academic year. 
 
 “The IIT-Hyderabad will be offering an all course MTech program with specializations in civil, electrical, and mechanical engineering from August, 2017,” said Desai. 
 
 Online applications for the all course MTech program will be accepted by the institute till July 20. 
 
