LUCKNOW: A creative brain here has essayed a peppy 2.45-minute spoof on  's hit, Raees, to underline the point that   is the  's new star attraction.

 Animator Faizan Siddiqui's clip smartly takes the film's trailer and morphs   and Akhilesh Yadav into the characters. The UP CM's face superimposed on SRK's torso matches Modi word for word, barb for barb against the movie's background score. Faizan's creation adds a dash of colour to the campaign and has re ceived more than 2.5 lakh hits across social media platforms since its Saturday release.
 
 “Zyada ooncha mat ud, kat jayega“ (Don't soar too high, you'll fall flat), the morphed Modi delivers a cold warning. Akhilesh's (read SRK) retort: “Agar katne ka dar hota na, to patang nahi chadhata, phirki pakadta“ (Had I been scared, I wouldn't be flying kites...) -their real-life verbal punch-up getting livelier with the filmy lines. In one hurried shot,  's head is morphed on to SRK's, but it's just a passing shot. It opens with Akhilesh d e livering these punchy lines: “Ammi jaan kehti thi koi dhanda chhota nahin hota, aur dhandhe se bada koi dharm nahi hota“ (Mother would say no work is small and there's no religion bigger than work).Modi breaks in: “Jisko tu dhandha bolta hai na woh crime hai ...“ (What you call work is crime...). He weighs in with: “Isko bandh kar de warna saans lena mushkil kar doonga“ (Stop, else I'll make it difficult for you to breathe.) Cut to the next visual -a grab from a news show. Akhilesh stings Modi: “Meri saans to rok loge...lekin is hawa ko kaise rokoge“ (My breath you can stop, but how will you stop the big wave...) The repartee is accompanied by insertions of supporters carrying posters rooting for the SP chief and snapshots of the mega RahulAkhilesh show announcing their alliance.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav Titled , in and as Raees', the viral video also encapsulates the Samajwadi Pari-War thus: Bemused Akhilesh faces dad Mulayam's reprimand for failing to rein in corrupt ministers, the CM being challenged by uncle Shivpal, whose frame is morphed on to that of the dogged police officer's from the film.
 
  A grab of Shivpal whispering into Mulayam's ears is shown to these lines: “Aap hum ko kaheen bhi transfer kar do...main Raees ko nahin chhodunga“ (Transfer me anywhere, but I won't spare Raees). The message: Shivpal will snap at Akhilesh's heels.
 
 “I've been following the SP and was watching Raees, when I realised that the film's dialogues could be used for a clip of political relevance,“ Faizan says.
 
 The video started as a YouTube upload and a post on Faizan's Facebook page on Saturday . The SP media cell has liked it, so has the Akhilesh Yadav Fans' Club. 
 
