NAGPUR: With close to 90% teachers from most schools summoned for training as officials for NMC elections on February 21, city schools are left in a bind. Some schools had no choice but to declare a holiday while some others made do with reserve staff. Some teachers even sought relief from duty, but to no avail.

 A training session was conducted at   (DNC), Congress Nagar, on Friday, where 1,184 teachers turned up. According to officials from the district collectorate, approximately 80% of the total teachers summoned attended the training. Those who failed to show up will be served a show cause notice asking for reasons for remaining absent, said  , an official.
 
 Teachers will be trained in the functioning of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and managing voter identification. The training will be conducted zone-wise till February 20, with multiple sessions in each zone.
 
 A Std X teacher who was present at DNC on Friday said the entire teaching staff from his school had been called for election work. However, no holiday was declared and students were left unsupervised, he said.
 
 With Std X board exams scheduled to begin on February 15, another Std X teacher expressed concerned whether his students would be prepared for the English oral tests in his absence. Some 22 teachers (70% of the teaching staff) from his school have been summoned for the election work, he informed. His training is scheduled for Saturday at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines.
 
 “Ideally, teachers should not be called for election duty. The government should consider other departments or fix a ratio for teachers to be engaged from each school,” said a history teacher for Std IX and X.
 
 The principal of a state school in the city said she had to declare a holiday for Std V to VII since enough teachers were not available. On the other hand, another school principal informed her schools had to make do with reserve teaching staff.
 
 Both schools had received no notification from the education department on how to handle the situation, a point which was confirmed by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar.
 
