DUMKA: It’s hic hic hurray for   travellers in  , notwithstanding court orders. 

 On Jamtara bypass, alongside state highway 133, a motley group of truck drivers sat on a khatiya (cot) outside Yadav line hotel, gulping whiskey (Imperial Blue) from stainless steel glasses on a sultry afternoon. 
 
 Some distance away from the   or roadside eatery, an English wine shop was open, unabashedly displaying a wide range of beer, rum, scotch and whiskey. “What ban? The ban is only for liquor shops alongside national highways; this is a state highway,’’ said Ajoy Mondal, sitting across the counter, righteously.
 
 Perhaps blissfully unaware of the blatant violation in the state of the apex court’s order to close liquor vends along highways, chief minister Raghubar Das was campaigning for the Littipara by election, less than a 100 kilometres away from here on Tuesday. 
 
 He along with his team of bureaucrats and officials was also overseeing preparations for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on April 6 for the ground breaking ceremony of a bridge over Ganga at Sahebganj in Santhal Pargana.
 
 As trucks and vehicles criss-crossed the highways business appeared to be normal at the roadside dhabas dotting the entire 300 kilometre stretch from the state capital to the sub-capital of Dumka. The boards at these dhabas read: Doodh, lassi, paneer, chaas, but what was also being served here were beer, rum and whiskey at fancy prices. 
 
 “We don’t stock liquor at the dhaba but if you ask for it, we can arrange to get it here from a nearby vend,’’ said the manager of Damodar dhaba on   23, who was reluctant to reveal his name. 
 
 The English wine shop on this highway which existed here till till 10 days ago was being brought down following the court’s order to make way for some other business. 
 
 So where was the liquor supply to the dhabas coming from? A closer look revealed the sudden mushrooming of pan and tea stalls sparkling with fresh paint, behind which all kinds of English wine and beer was being sold and served for anybody asking for it. 
 
 “Rs 150 for Tuborg Strong beer,’’ said the vendor to a customer. When the latter protested saying that the MRP was Rs 120, the vendor almost retorted, “Take it or leave it, sir. Court ke order se sharab bechna mana hain highway par, aapko to phir bhi mil raha hai (liquor shops have been banned by the court on highways, you are still getting it).” 
 
 The same story repeated itself along the entire route. Truckers also scoffed at the ban, “Right from Bengal to Jharkhand liquor is available all along the state and national highways,” they laughed.
 
 However, the only bar and restaurant on NH 2 near Gobindpur in Dhanbad, New Khalasa Dhaba, along the route which usually bustles with activity and business, wore a deserted look. “Business here has come down by almost 50% from April 1 since the ban became effective. We have stopped serving liquor here and only families are coming for lunch or dinner,” said the guard at the entrance, turning down unlimited pleas of travellers to serve them a peg or two. 
 
 The apex court’s intent to stop drink driving and prevent the increasing number of accidents on highways is a distant dream…at least in the state.
 
