PATNA: Call it the vagaries of nature or foggy weather conditions, passengers continue to be at the receiving end following abrupt cancellation of about 15 pairs of trains, including the Patna-New Delhi   on Tuesday. Majority of passengers who had booked their tickets in advance are now left in the lurch as they would find it difficult to get confirmed berths in any of the Delhi bound trains from Patna Junction. 

 Expressing anguish, most of such passengers said sudden cancellation of trains like Rajdhani Express and   from both Patna and Delhi ends causes lots of inconvenience to them. Earlier, railways had announced that   would remain cancelled every Tuesday from Patna side and every Wednesday from Delhi-end. But, later, it said Rajdhani Express would not be cancelled at any cost, they said.
 
 A few passengers complained that railways never informed them about the cancellation of trains at least four hours before their scheduled departure. They came to know about it only after reaching the station with luggage to board the train, they said, adding that information on the integrated inquiry system 139 was never updated causing much hardships to the passengers.
 
 According to a senior railway official, the Danapur division has alone suffered a huge loss in refund of tickets due to cancellation of trains like Rajdhani Express, Sampoorna Kranti Express and Magadh Express from Patna Junction. Railways is yet to calculate the losses, but in no way the loss could go up in crores of rupees for railways, he said.
 
 A large number of passengers could be seen in the queue at Patna Junction on Wednesday to seek refund of their tickets in the wake of Rajdhani Express cancellation and trains running abnormally late. “It would be difficult to get confirmed tickets in Rajdhani Express due to heavy rush in this particular train,” said some Delhi University students waiting there for refunds. 
 
 Passengers travelling in sleeper class were the most harried lot as they faced hardships at Patna Junction due to sudden rescheduling or cancellation of Delhi-bound trains from Patna Junction on Wednesday. According to these aggrieved passengers, railways had no information about exact arrival or departure of trains from Patna Junction on Wednesday evening. Thus, they were forced to spend night on platforms due to rescheduling of trains, they said.
 
 Passengers in the senior citizen category said railways has now made ‘Aadhaar card’ as the only basis for them to get tickets. Unfortunately, railways refused to give senior citizen tickets to a few women passengers on the voters’ identity cards, they fumed.
 
 
