CHENNAI: With used cars attracting the same level of   as new cars, although on the margin rather than the entire price, organised used car players are facing the prospect of thinner margins and losing out to unorganised ones. Top players say the new   are much higher than what was in place in different states though the pre-GST rates varied widely from 5% in   to 14.5% in  . Worse, the fear is that this discrepancy could affect new car sales as well.

 Said Nagendra Palle, CEO & MD, Mahindra First Choice Wheels: “Given that 27% of all new cars sold in India are through exchange offers, used car slabs affect new cars too as the used car overall economics get affected. If the customer gets less for an exchange vehicle, they will revisit the idea of exchange as an attractive option.” Worse, he said, the current slabs squeeze margins so badly that business may be tempted to move to unorganised channels which lack transparency and uniformity in evaluation.
 
 The big problem, say used car dealers, is that although GST is calculated on the difference between buying price and selling price, the slabs mimic new cars. “This has compromised organised trade and eaten into the dealer margin because unlike other categories where the GST can be passed on to the customer, here it is out of the dealer's margin,” said a top Chennai-based used car dealer. Agreed Palle: “It is not a simple add on to the price but specific to margin and it does not apply to transaction between customers to customer. This will encourage unorganised transactions,” he added. The good thing is GST has introduced a uniform tax slab for used cars.
 
  Earlier various states had different tax slabs AP charged 14.5% on margins,   2.02% on sale value, Haryana had different slabs for cars upto 1000cc and those above, TN had 5% VAT while other states had 5%, 6% or 12% etc. “That's another pinch for us TN-based dealers because we've gone from 5% to 43%,” said the TN based dealer. “From 95% gross margin we're down to 57% gross margin on the high end cars.”
 
 Organised trade has started playing a significant role in this business in the past two years. About 12% of overall used car volumes comes from the organised sector and it is growing rapidly at 20-25% a year. The   feel this is just oversight on the part of the authorities. “We have made representations to various associations and are hoping this will get addressed,” said Palle. The sector's earlier concerns about reverse charge did get addressed.
 
