GHAZIABAD: The   has issued   to about 200   and builders across the city for issuing   — which include hidden charges — to individual consumers. The department has asked the builders and RWAs concerned to reply to the notice within 15 days or face action.

 The notice said that including inflated hidden charges in power bills was in violation of the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003. In Indirapuram alone, 66 housing societies have been issued notices following repeated complaints filed by individual consumers. 
 
 The Act permits them to charge up to 5% extra on individual bills as a compensation for maintenance, but not beyond that. Residents said the extra amount charged was far more than the legally permissible amount.
 
 Sunil Goyal, a resident of Jaipuria Sunrise Greens, Indirapuram, said, “For a long time, we have been paying Rs 500-700 extra on power bills. When we realised this, we complained to the RWA and were told that the extra amount paid goes towards the upkeep of apartments. But we are already paying maintenance charges separately every month.”
 
 Jatin Bhandari, from ATS Advantage Society, said: “The worst part is that bills handed over to us are so vague and devious that it is almost impossible to ascertain which part of it is for power and which is for maintenance. This is tantamount to cheating.”
 
 According to Sonu Rastogi, the PVVNL executive engineer in charge of Indirapuram, “The problem is that each society is registered as one consumer with us, and the electricity load is fixed for every society. They then sub-let loads to each apartment and collect power dues through pre-paid meters, which gives them enough leeway to charge more.”
 
 The matter had earlier reached the consumer grievance redressal forum (CGRF) in Meerut when Pankaj Sinha, a resident of Savy Ville De in Raj Nagar Extension, filed a case in June 2016 against the prevailing malpractice. The CGRF ruling, which had come in March this year, had made it clear that prepaid meters installed in the group housing complexes and apartments cannot be used for collection of maintenance charges.
 
 “The argument put forward by the RWAs is that they need money for maintenance, but according to the provisions under the Electricity Act, 2003, they can charge 5% extra on individual power bills and not beyond that. Many societies are charging exorbitantly,” Sinha told TOI.
 
 “In the past, many RWAs had also unilaterally disconnected power supply of the individual consumers who did not pay these inflated power bills. Taking a stern view of this, the CGRF had termed it illegal,” Sinha said.
 
 Meanwhile, RWAs have defended the practice. “We need power to light up common areas and to run water pumps. The money we are collecting through maintenance charge falls short many times,” said Alok Kumar, president of Arihant Harmony RWA, Indirapuram.
 
 Under the Act, it is mandatory for RWAs and builders to make the bill details available to individual customers, and to PVVNL officials in Meerut every six months. “This has not been followed by many RWAs and housing societies, hence the notices,” PVVNL chief engineer S K Gupta said.
 
 
