CHANDRAPUR: Social organization Eco-Pro has launched a drive to clean all the vegetation grown over fort wall of mighty Chanda Fort in the city. It is first of its kind drive taken up for the conservation of historic Chanda Fort and it might take couple of months to complete the task.

 The city has strong historic and religious background and there are several historically important monuments around here. More than 550-year-old Chanda fort, that earlier used to serve as capital of  , is the majestic heritage for the city. Last five centuries have however taken their toll and this magnificent fort is now in a dilapidated condition. Lack of caretaking from archaeological department and civic administration had left the majestic monument to the mercy of weather. Hence thick vegetation and tall trees have grown all over the fort wall. It is this vegetation that Eco-Pro has decided to get rid off the fort wall under its ambitious Chandrapur Killa Swatchata Abhiyan. 
 
 President of Eco-Pro, Bandu   informed that the drive was launched couple of days ago and the fort wall around main entrance gate of Pathanpura is being cleaned in the first phase. Thick vegetation and on instances large trees have grown through the wall all over the fort. This vegetation has caused large cracks in the wall and led to collapse of some part of wall. If not removed in time, this vegetation might lead to complete destruction of the fort, Dhotre said.
 
 He claimed that archaeological conservation wing of the organization is taking care of the drive. Over 50 volunteers are working hard, often hanging over the fort walls for hours, to chop off the vegetation. Dhotre maintained that completion of drive might take some time, but they are determined to clean the entire circumference wall the fort. We are also going to treat the stumps of leftover vegetation with chemicals so that they wont grow again, he added. He maintained that they have sought proper permission from local office of state archaeological department for their work. 
 
 
