MANGALURU: A court here convicted three   on Monday for their involvement in making  . The quantum of punishment will be announced on April 12. 

 The convicts are Sayyed Mohammed Noushad, a resident of Pandeshwar in Mangaluru; Ahammed Bava Aboobakker of Bollur in Haleyangadi; and Fakir Ahmed, from Uchila in Udupi district.
 
 Additional district and sessions court judge SH Pushpanjali Devi held the three guilty under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Explosive Substances Act, Arms Act and the Indian Penal Code. Public prosecutor U Narayan Sherigar told TOI that 13 people were named suspects in the 2008 case, and the court completed the trial against seven accused and held three guilty.
 
 The terror network was busted after then District Crime   (DCIB) inspector HM Venkatesh Prasanna picked up the third accused, Mohammed Ali, from Mukkacheri on October 3, 2008. Later, the team seized five live bombs and 10 mobile phones after raiding a rented house of Riyaz Bhatkal in Chembugudde near Thokkotu. Similarly, police seized 11 items, including maps, CPU, telephone numbers, passport, bank passbook, a bike with fake number plate and a book titled 'Commander of Muslim Army', from the house of Mohammed Noushad in Pandeshwar.
 
 Jihadi literature, maps of Gujarat and Rajasthan, a bank passbook, VCDs, Rs 11,39,850 in cash and Noushad's passport were seized from  's house.
 
 Police arrested Mohammed Rafeeq and Fakir Ahmed from Bolanthur and Muloor, in Dakshina Kannada district, respectively. Based on the information collected from them, the team later raided the house and three acres of land belonging to sixth accused Fakir Ahmed in Vittalamakki of Kuduregundi village in Chikkamagaluru.
 
 A total of 38 items, including a gun, black oxide, hand gloves, fibre pieces, iron pieces, glass pieces, nylon materials, glycerine bottle and white powder required to make bombs, was seized from Fakir Ahmed's house in Vittalamakki. Meanwhile, 20 electric sticks, 19 detonators and four timers were seized from the second accused Ahammed Bava Aboobakker. 
 
 The prime accused, Nousha d, had allegedly designed an electronic circuit at a workshop in Ullal under the pretext of creating a washing machine as part of a college project. He was accused of using a fake registration number for his two-wheeler. 
 
 
