BHOPAL: Famous as ‘Chhey Kodi Ka Mandir’, it is one of the  . Legend has it the temple was built on a land donated by a Muslim and others came forward to construct a place of worship and an idol was placed. All out of faith.

 The temple may not strike as a piece of architectural marvel or an outcome of a grand historical event. Just a rock figure in original form, this small temple is a major landmark in the history of what was once a princely state. Situated in a corner near fish market in Itwara area, it stands tall and is a testament to the ganga-jamuni tehzeeb of Bhopal.
 
 By some estimates, an idol of Lord Hanuman in the temple is more than century-old. “Geographically, it would have been on outer edge of the Fatehgarh fort near Itwara. My father was the caretaker and now I perform duty as a priest,” said Purushottam Tiwari, an employee of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC).
 
 Fatehgarh fort extended from the banks of the Upper Lake to Lower Lake and covered the limits of what was called ‘Sher-e-Khas’. 
 
 For years, a Muslim family was the caretaker of the temple. Every morning, the temple space was washed and cleaned by the family as a pujari made arrangements for ‘agarbatti’ (incense stick). 
 
 At a cursory glance, the temple is not visible from a short distance. Hidden behind massive structures, the temple is situated close to Qasaipura, a locality where most of people are into business of selling meat. “The idea was to set an example of communal harmony and promote amity among communities,” said Bhaiya Miyan. 
 
 Caretakers over a long period of time have kept a low-profile. There is no grand signage to announce location of the city’s first temple. To visit the temple, one has to pass through the house of Tiwari.
 
 Children welcome every devotee with a smile. Soft-spoken and articulate in English, Tiwari’s daughter Roopam explained the legend of the temple. “We have learnt its history from our grandmother. There are many legends associated with this place,” she said.
 
 Calm and serenity of the place comes across as a pleasant surprise as opposed to din in walled city. “Since I have been living here, the temple space has expanded. It has grown in size, but we have tried to maintain it as it is,” said Phool Kunwar Tiwari, wife of Purushottam Tiwari. 
 
 
