MUMBAI: Applying the rarely used investigative method of forensic dentistry, the police have nailed a 45-year-old man who kidnapped, attacked and raped a 6-year-old girl while she was out to buy paan for her grandmother in   three years ago.The method is formally called  .

 Despite the child's inability to identify the accused as his face was covered at the time of the crime, the medical and odontology reports led to the conviction of Shrinivas Saryadu by a special court under the   (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act). Referring to the odontology report, the court said the doctor who prepared it was the only forensic odontologist in the state and one of only two in the country .“She (the doctor) used computer-based comparison techniques. She reached the conclusion that the bite marks on the victim's lips matched with the teeth pattern of the accused. She has given the opinion certainty ,“ the court said.
 
 Sentencing Saryadu to 20 years in jail, the court said, “It is pertinent to note that the teeth pattern of every individual is unique and never similar to any other individual's.“
 
 The court also drew parallels with the method's use in the   case (2012 Delhi gang rape).
 
 On July 4, 2014 the child's father dropped her off to her grandmother's home and left for work. While the girl and her sibling lived with their father, her mother, who was divorced, lived elsewhere.The father told the court that when he returned home at 9pm to pick up his daughter, he was told the child had gone out but not returned. The father lodged a complaint with the Meghwadi police.
 
 The following morning, at 7am, the girl was found at   by a woman who was on her way to work. The woman, in her statement, said the child did not have any clothes on and was crying. She said the child's lips were swollen, injured and bleeding. People gathered and the police arrived with clothes and took the child to a trauma centre, where she was medically exami ned. The child's father was informed. When he arrived at the hospital, the girl told him about the attack.
 
 The girl, in her deposition before the court, said that “uncle“ (Saryadu) had found her near the paan shop, snatched Rs10 from her, and took her to the woods. She said he bit her and assaulted her. She said he pressed her neck and threw her in the water.
 
 Saryadu had been reported missing by his brother at the same police station after he didn't return home on July 1, 2014. The police received in formation that the unmarried man had been accused of attempting to attack women two or three times earlier. On July 17, he was traced to Andhra Pradesh and brought back to Mumbai, after which his dental impressions were taken for the odontology test.
 
