PUNE: Problems like severe congestion throughout the  , including check-in area and security hold area (SHA), time taken for check-in, security checks, absence of   (FIDS) and very limited dining and shopping options are being addressed through project DISHA, an initiative of the   (AAI).

 The project aims to improve the efficiency and customer service levels at Pune Airport along with nine other airports.
 Pune MP Anil Shirole, who is also the head of the Pune Airport Advisory Committee, said on Thursday that an AAI team had conducted a thorough study to help identify and understand the problem areas at the airport as part of the project.
 
 "The Pune airport has seen a growth of almost 23% in the last three years. However, it presently has just one old terminal building. As a result of this growth, the facility, which primarily belongs to the defence, has witnessed very high traffic density. To keep up with this burgeoning growth and to ensure a hassle-free passenger experience, the airport has taken a series of steps to improve current customer service levels," Shirole said.
 
 The AAI team, during its survey, identified five key areas which need improvement. Following this, steps were taken to improve queuing time and convenience at all customer touch points. Initiatives were taken to improve airport facilities such as toilets, trolleys, seating and overall terminal upkeep, simplify customer flows and improve airport navigation, offer good and affordable retail, F&B and other engagement avenues and strengthen performance monitoring and customer feedback systems.
 
 "A programme management cell that regularly tracks the implementation status of the various initiatives undertaken has also been set up. This cell has established a detailed performance dashboard wherein performance data is collected by an independent research agency and is reported to the management through an application," Shirole said.
 
 
 
 The approach road to the airport has been expanded to reduce congestion.
 
 The area of the current terminal is being increased by around 1,000 square meters by expanding the front glazing. Also, around 200 square meters of office space is being included into the security hold area.
 
 Work has been started to expand the front area and increase terminal area at check-in.
 An additional self check-in machine has been deployed and a self check-in cluster has been created. Apart from this, 12 new check-in counters have been planned for the airport.
 
 Additional layout modifications are also being completed to ensure smooth passenger flow. Plans to integrate the two security-check areas are afoot.
 Two new toilets have been opened in the arrival area. New food and beverage outlets and a new duty free store have been allotted too. A retail store has been launched recently for the passengers who want to shop.
 
 As many as 30 new and additional display boards have been deployed at the airport at optimized locations according to passenger flow.
 Tenders for a new terminal building and facilities for toilet upkeep have been floated. A fund of Rs 408 crore has been sanctioned by the AAI for the new terminal already.
 
