Nagpur: The DC-3 or Dakota, which ferried thousands of troops from the US to European front and was also hunting for a German U-boat in Greenland seas, is now on a world tour. Taking off from Switzerland, the plane has covered seven countries and is in Nagpur till Wednesday. ‘The World War is long over, no hatred remains. All that remains are relics like these planes. Even in places like Germany people are excited and welcome the flight.  Taking off from Switzerland, where it belongs, the plane will land at Italy before finally going home,” said Francisco Agullo of Aero Passion, the Swiss company which now owns the aircraft.  Even in Italy, which was on the other side of the war, Agullo only expects a warm welcome on landing. Seven years ago, Agullo had landed at Nagpur with his ultra-light aircraft, since he could get the special fuel for the plane here.  In 2017, when he is flying across the globe in the World War era plane, he again chose to land here. “We could have gone to any bigger centre like Mumbai or Delhi, but Nagpur is a better choice. The airfield is not congested, it is easy to take off and land for small flights. Of course, Avgas, the special fuel needed for my aircraft is also available here,” he said. The world tour has been supported by Swiss watchmaker Breitling and is also a part of its promotional campaign. Agullo and his crew of two had taken off from Karachi before landing at Nagpur. “It was a tough flight. The Pakistani authorities allowed us to fly at above 3,500 feet which is a high altitude for the aircraft.  The DC-3 does not have pressurised cabins. With extra fuel tanks in the cabin, the fumes made it worse. On landing at Nagpur, three of us were just too dizzy,” he recalled. The journey ahead is also expected to be a precarious one. It was earlier planned to reach Chittagong in Bangladesh but the team got a message that it does not have the special fuel.  “The aircraft will now take off for Chiang Mai in Thailand instead. It's a 10 hour flight and the fuel is just enough for eight hours. To make up the deficit, we will have to top up the extra tanks in the cabin,” he said. 