LUCKNOW:  's enhanced role in Congress affairs first became a subject of discussion in July last year, when the party began planning its election campaign in UP. She began by discussing campaign plans with Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is in charge of UP.

 The go-alone strategy was, however, dumped for an alliance with Samajwadi Party, and in early November, Prashant Kishor, the strategist behind both the NDA Lok Sabha triumph of 2014 and Nitish Kumar's successful war plan in Bihar in 2015, was sent as the party emissary to   twice and then to CM  .
 
 While Akhilesh remained non-committal, Mulayam publicly dismissed a tie-up with the Congress. By then Kishor had also attempted backroom conversations with  's RLD and other smaller factions in UP in an attempt to sew up a Bihar-like `mahagathbandan' to check BJP's advance.
 
 Around this time, the Yadav family feud intensified.Kishor, who had insisted on a Priyanka-centric election campaign beginning in November and winding up by mid-January, changed gears after she decided to focus on seat-sharing talks rather than campaigning. By December, Akhilesh, on the verge of heading out on his own, was more agreeable to an SP-Congress alliance than earlier. Kishor prepared a list of around 150 constituencies that Congress believed it deserved to contest.With party vice-president Rahul Gandhi abroad on vacation, it was Priyanka who held the first closed-door meeting with Akhilesh.
 
 When Rahul returned, it was to negotiations on a brink of collapse. Akhilesh was unwilling to concede more than 105 seats to the Congress, with seat-sharing in the Gandhi bastions of Amethi and Rae Bareli the contentious area. SP, which had won seven of the 10 assembly seats in Amethi and Rae Bareli in 2012, was agreeable to half-and-half arrangement, but Priyankapushed for Congress contesting all the seats there.
 
 If Priyanka was the pivot of the backroom management, Kishor was responsible for the joint election campaign. Team PK and a section of the party believed the `UP Ko Ye Saath Pasand Hai' campaign had the pulse of the people, but the decisive results on Saturday proved this show of youthful friendship didn't quite cut it for UP.
 
