MUMBAI: In a relief to an aeronautical engineer whose one-third salary was ordered to be attached by a lower court over maintenance dues to his ex-wife, the   directed him to deposit Rs 40,000 and revoked the attachment. 

 The husband had moved the high court against the order passed last September to attach one-third of his salary but not more than Rs 6,000 per month. A court in   had in 2015 dissolved the couple's arranged marriage solemnized in 2009. The divorce was granted in 2013 on a plea filed by the husband on grounds of cruelty. Both appealed against the order, she against the divorce and he against the Rs 5,000 monthly maintenance for her.
 
 A child born in 2010 is with the father since the divorce. He suffers from a health issue and needs constant care. The husband's case, argued by his lawyer Smita Gaidhani before Justice R M Savant on Monday, was that his wife had gone to her parents home soon after the marriage and filed a false complaint of cruelty against him in 2010 for which he and his family members were arrested and kept in custody for almost a month. The ex-wife, he said, had joined a Malegaon college in 2011 to pursue graduation while leaving the child with her parents and not allowing him to spend time with the child.
 
 The mother, meanwhile, filed a case for custody of the child. The husband, in his petition, claimed that she has not even once enquired about the child since handing him over in December 2015.
 
 Pointing out that she was now capable of earning, the husband challenged any further maintenance to her as he has paid her over Rs 2.5 lakh since November 2012. The wife's lawyer said the husband had stopped paying the maintenance amount and the arrears mounted to Rs 58,000.
 
 Justice Savant, however, said that on deposit Rs 40,000 in court by the husband, the attachment would stand revoked and directed both sides to go in for mediation.
 
 The aeronautical engineer pointed out that his ex-wife was now capable of earning, and challenged any further maintenance to her as he had paid her over Rs 2.5 lakh since November 2012
 
 
