CHENNAI: The number of   registered in the state last year (20.27 lakh) was the lowest in the last 10 years.
As the   faced one of its worst crises in recent times in the wake of an  ,   and the  's blanket ban on registration of unapproved housing plots, realty transactions fell to abysmal levels.
 
 The last time property transactions stood so low in the state was in 2005-06, when only 20.11 lakh documents were registered. A robust growth in the real estate industry later helped transactions touch 35.18 lakh in 2011-12. Since 2012, the industry has been facing a slump.
 
 A sharp fall was noticed from October to February last year. In the last quarter of 2016-17, there was a slight revival, said officials. In all, the government could mop up only Rs 7,007.74 crore through stamp duty and registration charges, which is a steep 18.16% fall from the previous year.
 
 The fall was maximum in Salem (25%), Vellore (24%) and Madurai (23%), sources said. The high court had banned all forms of sale, resale and registration of unapproved plots and layouts since Septem ber 9. Builders Association of India southern chapter chairman K Venkatesan said builders were severely hit by the verdict.
 
 “The recent modification of the court order that registration could be done for resale of properties has helped to an extent,“ Venkatesan said. Most of the layouts outside Chennai are unapproved, sources said.
 
 The real estate sector points to the steep increase in guideline value in 2012 as another reason for the slump. After several thousand complaints, the registration department is working towards rationalizing the guideline values. In a recent meeting, the central valuation committee found that the guideline value fixed for 99 survey numbers in Veeramangalam village in Kancheepuram was 10 times the market value.
 
 “Instead of Rs 8 lakh per acre, the valuation was fixed at Rs 80 lakh. It has been rectified now,“ an officer told TOI. CREDAI Chennai president Suresh Krishn said the guideline value in Chennai was at least 10% higher than the market value, while it is only 4%-5% higher than the market value in cities like Bombay and Delhi.
 
