NAGPUR: RST Regional Cancer Hospital (RCH) jointly with the state public health department on Saturday organized its second slot of cancer awareness workshop for doctors working at Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) and Rural Hospitals (RHs) of Nagpur division. 

 According to the programme, the RCH will hold the workshop for 3,000 such doctors in the group of 50 each, followed by a hands-on training starting next month. 
 
 It is believed that proper awareness and training on early cancer detection to these doctors, who come from far villages, will help in about 30% drop in rate of cancer patients, coming at last stage to RCH. With this, the health department makes first such initiative in the region to train its own workers for early detection of the deadly disease.
 
 A CME on cancer updates was organized during the second slot of the workshop addressed by four oncologists, Dr S B Sapre, Dr Prasanna Joshi, Dr   and Dr Prashant Dhoke, from RCH.
 
 The CME was inaugurated by   (IMA) president Dr  . IMA secretary Dr Prashant Rathi, Dr Vandana Kate, Cancer Relief Society joint secretary Dr Ramkrishna Chhangani, RCH joint director  , medical superintendent Dr D P Sengupta and RCH assistant directors, Sapre and Dr Kartar Singh, were also present on the occasion.
 
 Talking to TOI, Dr Joshi said, “Only 30% of the breast cancer patients come to us at a manageable stage. About 30% of the patients come in advance stage which still curable, while rest of the 40% come at a critical stage and there is least hopes to save them.”
 
 Dr Sharma said, “There are about 3,000 doctors serving at RHs and RCHs across Nagpur division. In the first phase, we are updating their knowledge on early cancer detection. Mostly on Sundays, we will be arranging CME for 50 medical officers in each slot.”
 
 Her further said, “From October, there will be practical sessions of the same candidates who have attended CME. On every Saturday, the hospital will be giving hands-on training to a batch of five. The aim is to cover doctors from entire Nagpur division.”
 
 Dr Chhangani said, “Though RHs and PHC have limited resources, but with the right knowledge they can very well detect tumour at an early stage and refer such patients to better centres. With the help of the central government schemes, we will make sure that such patients who can’t afford the treatment can still get it done.”
 
