 has created a stir this year and the last within the television and film fraternity for his show ‘The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime’. Having bagged the most number of awards at the Primetime Emmys, the miniseries has struck gold again at this year’s prestigious awards ceremony – the Golden Globe Awards 2017!
 
  The 10-episode series that first premiered on   Premiere HD in India was awarded under the categories ‘Best Television Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television’ and ‘Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television’ with Sarah Paulson repeating her Emmy win at the awards ceremony.
  
  
 
  
  “The trial of O.J. Simpson turned tragedy into entertainment, reminding us that American justice is anything but blind when race, gender and celebrity are involved,” said Executive Producer Nina Jacobson on-stage while surrounded by the cast and the crew of the series. “When working on the show we had no idea how painfully relevant those would be in 2016,” she added.
  
  Paulson on other hand was ecstatic, “Oh my God, I think I’m going to faint”, she exclaimed as she thanked her “incredible cast, this merry band of gypsies”,   and Ryan Murphy.
  
  Emmy award winners Courtney B. Vance and Sterling K Brown along with Emmy nominee   were also nominated at the   for their portrayals on the series. If that’s not enough, Sterling K Brown who depicted Christopher Darden’s character on the series received a standing ovation at the Primetime Emmys when he snared his first ever award going up against Academy award winner John Travolta and cast member David Schwimmer.
  
  But that’s not all. The series that is based on the real-life trial and verdict of mega sports player and superstar O.J. Simspon also snagged the most number of nominations and awards by dominating the awards scene at the recently concluded Critics’ Choice Awards 2017. The series won under categories
  
  1. Best Movie Made for Television or Limited Series
  2. Best Actor In A Movie Made For Television Or Limited Series - Courtney B. Vance
  3. Best Supporting Actor In A Movie Made For Television Or Limited Series - Sterling K Brown
  4. Best Actress In A Movie Made For Television Or Limited Series - Sarah Paulson
  
  The highly anticipated second installment under Ryan Murphy’s true crime anthology series ‘American Crime Story’ is based on Hurricane Katrina and will premiere in India early this year on Star World Premiere HD.
