NEW DELHI: Three months after Prime Minister   announced a “surgical strike” on black money, “notebandi” is playing out in different ways in Delhi’s slums ahead of municipal polls: it seems to have injected BJP into conversation in pockets where it has not had much presence.

 It is far from clear just how the profile BJP has gained will work out at the ballot, but it appears to have given the party a talking point in the city’s vast slums, which have been largely the preserve of rival Congress and, more recently, the Aam Admi Party.
 
 At Lal Bagh, one of Delhi’s biggest slums in North Delhi with a 2-lakh population, slum dwellers are divided over the drastic measure. Raja Ram, a daily wager at Azadpur Mandi, had a hard time providing for his family after demonetisation. But he isn’t complaining. “It was rich people who were the most affected by the decision. We had nothing to lose. And now things have become normal,” said Ram.
 
 But another resident, Arjun Kumar, who works as a painter, disagrees. “The government didn’t think about poor people. I had no work for over a month,” said Kumar. Kumar is clearly one of those who had no fixed assignment, unlike Ram.
 
 BJP could have reason to feel pleased that demonetisation has given it a possible entry into areas where it got little support even during the ‘Modi wave’ in 2014. It lost all 31 booths — the cluster has nearly 35,000 voters — here during the Lok Sabha elections. BJP has won the civic seats here riding on a local candidate. But after 1993, BJP has never led in an assembly or Lok Sabha election.
 
 Like Lal Bagh, people living in other slums across the city have all been impacted by demonetisation. While some are complaining, others are supportive of the move despite the hardship, seeing the measure as aimed at ill-gotten wealth of the well-off.
 
 Notebandi has given BJP an opportunity to expand its social base. This sizeable vote, which played a big role in AAP’s victory in 2015, has become more important after delimitation of municipal wards. Wards in assembly constituencies with large number of slums have increased.
 
 For residents of Inderpuri’s Gas Godown slum, where   chief   spent a night, some of AAP government’s policies are more problematic than demonetisation. “We faced difficulty for some time because of demonetisation. Now cash is back in flow. But our livelihood is badly impacted by taxi aggregators. And the AAP government is doing little to help us,” said Noochatiya, an auto driver.
 
 The slum voted for AAP in 2015, but there is a general grievance over “unfulfilled” expectations as residents feel the local MLA has not addressed basic requirements. 
 
 People say the Delhi government fixed some problems after Tiwari raised the issue of no water supply to the community toilet. Similarly, in Kalyanpuri’s block 18 slum, there is anger against area MLA Manoj Kumar. Residents said that the inner lanes of the slum have been made and a toilet has come up. “But he is not available for things like getting documents stamped, school admission, etc. His workers don’t listen to us,” said Lakhan Singh, a mason.
 
 Residents here recall Congress’s record during its 15 years in office — a small indication that the party is finding mention. “Kejriwal promised that slums will be rehabilitated. But we are deprived of basic services. There are no streetlights. Drainage is in a mess. The Congress government at least got some work done,” said Mobina Khatum, a resident.
 
 For BJP, any gain in these clusters is good news, as these were never its votebank. The challenge will be to retain the goodwill through political programmes.
 
 
