KOLKATA:  , Rimi Row, Bhim Road: these are small concrete stretches named after pets at the sprawling 11-acre pet burial ground, Na-Manusher Swarga, on the southern outskirts.

 The cemetery, maintained by  , is dotted with rows of small tombs resembling “kennels“, most of which are built with white marbles, with a plaque bearing the pet's name and photo. In remembrance of the fond times they spent with their pets, many families have kept the clothes, utensils and toys, which the animals used at the graves. A family has even installed a ceiling fan at a tomb Dogs, cats, rabbits, birds and a horse are buried there. A few days ago, a sniffer dog from the Army was buried here with full  . In fact, the ground has an illustrious line-up of families who bid their pets farewell there the list inlcuded Justice Joyma lya Bagchi of the Calcutta high court, former CM Buddhadev Bhattacharjee's family, assembly  , former cricketer Sambaran Banerjee, actors Debashri Roy, Swastika Mukherjee and Jeet, civil servants and police officers.
 
 Pained that families were compelled to throw away the carcasses of their beloved pets, whom they cared for like their kids, in a vat or in the river owing to the absence of a proper facility, Kalyani University teacher Rahul Sinha came up with the idea of setting up a pet cemetery. Inspired by him, social activist Tarun Bhushan Guha set up the burial ground, around 30 km from the city's nerve centre in 1992. “Since then, around 6,000 animals have been buried here,“ said Pranab Guha, Samity secretary. “Far from the madding crowd, it's a serene and green pocket that the families love to visit. They are happy with the way we take care of the monu ments.“ Each grave is regularly cleaned and is decked up with flowers on anniversaries.
 
  
  
 
 
 For burial, a family has to pay Rs 1,000 and for a monument, they have to pay Rs 4,000 more every year as maintenance cost. “We don't restrict the size or shape of a monument. It depends on one's financial ability,“ Guha said.
 
 The organization takes extra care at the time of burial. Gobinda, who digs the graves, said about 10-20 kg lime and 4-8 kg salt are required. “ After digging a 2ft pit, we put about 10 kg lime and 4 kg salt for small animals and 20 kg lime and 8 kg salt for big ones. After the body is laid down, it is covered with another layer of lime and salt. The pit is filled with soil,“ he said. Flesh takes 3-4 months and bones 12-14 months to decompose.
 
 Atanu Mukherjee from Dum Dum is happy with the arrangement. “We would have faced difficulty had this cemetery not been there,“ said the Air India staffer who drove 50 km with his dog's body to bury there.
 
