COIMBATORE: Adi Tamizhar Peravai’s   district vice-president M Maheshwaran committed suicide in the early hours of Wednesday demanding an increase in reservation for the   community. 

 Around 1am on Wednesday, Maheshwaran went to the Bharathi Park in Tirupur and set himself on fire. 
 
 Police have recovered a suicide note allegedly written by him demanding an increase of 6% reservation for the community. The suicide note said, “The state government should increase the reservation for Aruthathiyars to 6%”. 
 
 He further stated in the note that if it was not implemented, such deaths would continue in the state.
 
 Founder of Adi Tamizhar Peravai, R Athiyaman said in a statement that he was deeply hurt and saddened by the suicide of the   and urged other members and youngsters to take the protest route. 
 
 This is not the first such case in the state. In 2012, two other members of the peravai committed suicide in the same manner. “We have lost two other members for the same cause in 2012. Neelavendham, revenue secretary in Tirupur, and Ranni, district women’s wing secretary in Trichy, had immolated themselves. I request everyone to not take such severe steps,” he said.
 
 In 2009, the   government allotted a 3% reservation to Arunthatiyars. “But it was not implemented by the   and many posts were being given to other despite reservation. No action was taken on violators and corrupt officials. Our members are scared that the existing reservation of 3% will also be taken away,” said Athiyaman.
 
 Maheshwaran was 35 years old and was extremely affected as the government had not taken note of their demands. 
 
 His family members said he had been talking about the reservation for the past few days. “But we did not know he would take such a step. Maybe, he thought this was the only way to get the government’s attention on the issue. We cannot express our sadness,” said his father.
 
 Selvakumar, a dalit activist in Coimbatore, said the population of Arunthathiyars had been increasing in the past few years. “Our demand is based on the population increase, the reservation should be increased. Most of them are jobless. Many are still employed as scavengers and are mistreated. They are below the poverty line and do not get adequate income to support their families. In such a situation, if the government also does not support them, their situation will only become worse,” he said.
 
 The body of Maheshwaran was sent to the government hospital for postmortem. 
 
 
