Rajkot: Three more persons involved in manufacturing the much sought-after mephedrone in Arambhada, the coastal village on the western-most tip of Gujarat, were arrested by the Devbhoomi Dwarka police on Tuesday. 

 With these arrests, total number of those nabbed in the case has gone up to five but the two masterminds of the racket — Jignesh Vora and Bhavesh Dudhatra — are still at large. 
 
 On Monday, police arrested Girdhar Bhalala and Arjan Mewada, both natives of Veja village near Gondal and Imran alias Bhura Jesaliya. Investigation has revealed that the accused were making mephedrone at three different places. 
 
 On Sunday, police had arrested Haroon Sora at whose godown in Arambhada the drugs were being made and Pinal Chotai, a native of Jamnagar. A court in Dwarka remanded the duo to 10-day police custody. 
 
 Police also seized Rs 1.65 lakh from Sora, Rs 4 lakh from Chotai and Rs 1.35 lakh from Imran. They had earned this money by selling the drug to Vora, who lives in Mumbai by the name of Rahul Shah, police said.
 
 The entire racket came to light when some villagers near Arambhada complained about severe burning sensation in the eyes on September 16. It was first believed that this was caused due to some smoke emanating from the adjacent Tata Chemicals factory. But investigation ruled this out. Meanwhile, police got information about some smell from the godown and raided it on September 29. A huge quantity of several chemicals like methylamine, hydrochloric acid, tolvin, bromine, phosphorous trichloride and aluminum nitrate was seized. 
 
 “Kingpin of this drug maki-ng racket is Jignesh Vora. He and Bhavesh Dudhatra, a chem-ical trader, met about 18 months ago. Vora offered to invest money and help sell the drug in Mumbai. They contacted Pinal Chotai, a pharmacist and Dudhatra’s friend,” said police.
 
 Dudhatra was also acquainted with Haroon, who lived in Rajkot and they started making the drug in his facility in Arambhada. Later, Bhalala and Mewada too joined in. 
 
 Bhalala had a firm near Nana Umwala village near Gondal while Mewada had a farm in Rauki village near Rajkot as well as in Hapa.
 
 In the last one year, the drug was being made in Arambhada, Hapa and Rauki, police said, adding that when villagers had complained of burning in the eyes, they had shifted a huge stock to Nana Umwala farm.
 
 
