:  

  Bollywood
 
 Finally, here’s a Hindi film that can justify all the Punjabi-ish numbers in its album! 'Mubarakan' is a mad caper about a Punjabi family and the composers have exploited the popularity Punjabi tunes enjoy among Bollywood audience, to their advantage.
 
 First in line is Amaal Mallik’s ' ', which promises to be the ‘shades song of the year’ after last year’s 'Kala Chashma'. A fun number, this sends out great dance floor vibes. While the arrangements are peppy, especially the recurring string section, the band of singers — Sonu Nigam, Armaan Malik, Amaal, Tulsi Kumar and Neeti Mohan — take it slow, letting the instruments infuse all the energy.
 
 'Mubarakan', composed by Rishi Rich and Yash Anand, starts with static radio voices. While tunes from the retro years play in the background, millennial sounds take the foreground. The song, rendered by Juggy D, Yash Narvekar, Badshah and Sukriti Kakar, is the shortest in the album and does nothing more than serving as just the title track. 
 
 Amaal’s other song for the film, 'Jatt Jaguar', is foot-tappingly Punjabi. While Navraj Hans begins the song with a Punjabi tadka, Vishal Dadlani takes it forward with full gusto. Apeksha Dandekar’s section is quite flavoursome, too. 
 
 'Haathon Mein Thhe Haath' is a slow, Sufi-inspired pathos number, composed by Gourov-Roshin. This one, too, has several singers going behind the mic — Papon, Altamash Faridi, Aditi Singh Sharma and Arpita Mukherjee — but is really nothing to write home about.
 
 A catchphrase-and-tune remix of Pakistani singer Hassan Jahangir’s popular number, ' ', is the pick of the album. With quirky lyrics by Kumaar and unrestrained singing by Mika Singh and Prakriti Kakar, Gourov-Roshin’s reworked version is already a chartbuster.
 
 The soundtrack ends with 'Dil Dhadke Louder Louder', another Gourov-Roshin composition. This one is a cool fusion of modern beats and folk tunes. The entire song is a play on the popular Punjabi call, 'Baari Barsi Khatan Gaya Si', and Rinku Giri and Puja Basnet have handled it well.
 
 There’s not much variety in the album, but we like how the composers have maintained a soundscape, with all the numbers having a Punjabi flavour (some may find it monotonous, though). 
 
 
