Mumbai:  , the man who built Shriram Group’s truck finance business, is in talks to join Everstone-backed  , which is looking to set up its retail and mortgage business. If talks fructify, Sridhar will also be a stakeholder in the   that is currently into corporate lending, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.

 Indostar, which counts   among others as shareholders, is in discussions with Sridhar after its parleys with former Deutsche Bank Asia CEO Gunit Chadha fell through.
 
 Indostar is currently focused on corporate lending and is led by founding MD and CEO Vimal Bhandari. Prior to this, Bhandari was Dutch insurer Aegon’s India head and earlier was part of management at IL&FS. Discussions between Indostar and Sridhar were at an advanced stage, but not yet finalised. 
 
 Indostar’s principal shareholder   Capital, the largest India-focused alternate asset manager, has also held discussions with others to steer its entry into retail and home finance businesses. Indostar, which has seen robust growth and profit after tax of Rs 200 crore in the just concluded fiscal, is gearing up for an IPO later this year. Both Indostar and Sridhar did not comment on the development. 
 
 Sridhar, who has been with the Chennai-based, $10-billion conglomerate   since 1985, is credited with growing the group’s truck finance business from Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 40,000 crore in assets under management. He headed Shriram Transport Finance up to March 2012 and is currently advising the TPG group. 
 
 In fact, he was spearheading TPG’s bid to acquire ICICI Home Finance and would have led the management, if the deal went through. Like ex-Deutsche star Chadha, Sridhar is also pursuing entrepreneurial ambitions in India’s red hot financial services industry, which has attracted interest from global risk investors.
 
 Sridhar also represented the Indian non-banking finance industry as chairman of the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC) and was a member of the finance ministry panel on NBFCs. He is also director on Shriram Properties and Tata Motors Finance.
 
 Indostar had a net worth of Rs 1,542 crore as on March 31, 2016. The company’s focus is in areas of structured term finance to corporates and loan against property (LAP) to SME borrowers, making it a partner credit institution for Indian corporates.
 
 
