HYDERABAD: Train movement along the key Mumbai-Chennai railway route was badly hit from early hours of Monday till late afternoon after five wagons of a goods train derailed at the Dudhani station near Gulbarga in   on the   section of Central Railways. Several trains were diverted via Hyderabad and Bangalore, leaving scores of people on board stranded for six to 10 hours. The accident occurred at 12.40 am.

 The accident led to partial/full cancellation and diversion of at least 24 trains in   (SCR) zone. As trains remained held up for one to two hours or were running on diverted routes, passengers remained clueless about what was happening around. Devoid of information, many took to social media to find which way they were heading and the reason for the delays. A passenger with twitter handle @jaldeepvasavada even tweeted to DRM Secunderabad, “Any update on train no. 11019? #TrainDiverted? 11019 Konark express started yesterday from CSTM. Will train come to Secunderabad? #Traindiverted? #5hrslate.” While another passenger  , who was on-board the Karnataka Express, tweeted to the railway minister, “Hello sir, train 12627 karnataka exp is not moving from last three hours, no information, what is going on?”
 
 Several passengers had to go without food or water for three to four hours at a stretch as they were stuck in the middle of nowhere in some cases.
 
 Rajgopal Singhal (twitter handle @rajgopalsinghal), a passenger aboard the  , tweeted to the rail minister, “Train no. 17032 delayed by 12 hours. No arrangement of food at station either. No TTE available. There are a few senior citizens in my coach who are hungry since morning. Coach no. S2.” Another passenger, Abinash Panda with the twitter handle@abinashlucky24 tweeted, “I am on train 17032 which has taken diff route due 2 derailment. There is no food and water on train Please help.”
 
 With many trains being diverted via same route, stations along the routes went short of food supplies within the first two hours. “My kids were asking for water for over three hours but I could not get one. We were told passengers on trains that passed through the route prior to us had bought bottles at premium rates,” said Vijay A, a passenger of Hubbali-Secunderabad Express.
 
