SRINAGAR: Three soldiers and a woman were killed and four others, including two Army officers, wounded in an ambush on an Army patrol in Jammu & Kashmir’s Shopian district early on Thursday.  , the pro-Pakistan terror group headed by Syed Salahuddin, claimed responsibility for the attack.

 Following intelligence inputs, a cordon-and-search operation was launched by the Army’s anti-terror squad, 44 Rashtriya Rifles, at Kungnoo, Shopian, on Thursday. Around 2.15am, the patrol was returning in a private taxi after terminating the operation without any arrest or recovery when terrorists ambushed their vehicle from two sides at Mulu Chitragam, a village.
 
 Two officers, a lieutenant colonel and a major, were injured in the firefight. The wounded soldiers are in a critical condition. An elderly woman, Taja Begum, was killed in the crossfire after being hit by a stray bullet while she was looking out of the window of her house.
 
 
 
 
 The soldiers who died are Lance Naik Ghulam Mohiuddin from Bijbehara, Anantnag, Sreejith MJ from Palakkad, Kerala, and Sepoy Vikas Singh Gurjar from Karouli, Rajasthan.
 
 Hizbul Mujahideen released a video on the internet purportedly showing a group of armed terrorists in combat fatigues, led by commander Zakir Mosa — who replaced Burhan Wani after he was killed in an encounter with security forces in July 2016 — dancing to music around a bonfire and celebrating the “successful”  .
 
 Shopian district is heavily infested with   — their numbers went up after Wani’s killing, which had triggered six month-long violent protests across the Valley. The Army is conducting search operations to nab the terrorists involved in the ambush. No one has been arrested or located so far, an intelligence officer said.
 
 The Army’s Northern Command issued a statement, “Such incidents have only strengthened our resolve to continue relentless operations against Pakistan-sponsored anti-nationals in Kashmir.” Thursday’s attack has been the deadliest so far this year. DGP S P Vaid said it was a sad moment for police as well as the forces.
 
