BENGALURU: If   has set two world records overcoming severe hardship during school days, the main credit for those feats goes to a small transistor radio which broadcast sports programmes into the hinterlands of Kenya.

 "You won't believe it but it's a true story," said Komon, 29, whose set world records in 10k and 15k road races in 2010.
 
 The inspiration came from hearing the names of top stars on radio. "Once I heard that, my aim was to listen to my name too on the radio," the native of Kapsogom, Mt Elgon district, said.
 
 "At home our parents wouldn't allow us to have a radio. So after they harvested the maize, we would go back and search the place for the remains. We used to collect whatever we got and sell them to buy anything we wanted. Our parents knew this but they wanted us to buy clothes and not a radio. So we did that secretly," said Komon, who now works as fireman with the Kenya Airports Authority.
 
 "I bought this radio, a small Sony that operated on a single battery which you could hide in your pocket. I was 13 years old then and I spent around 150 shillings (approx two dollars). It had FM and MW and the sports programmes came on medium wave. I hid it a day before the 2001 trials happened. I hid it near my school and the next day when the trials happened I skipped school and hid in the bushes and listened to the radio on low volume until the trials ended. I was curious to know who would qualify for the Kenya team from the likes of   and  ," he told STOI.
 
 A freak injury while playing handball helped him shift his focus completely to running. Till 2004 it was hard work as Komon climbed his way through the  . "In 2004, I competed in the Kenyan trials but ended 24th. What was even more disappointing was that  , my neighbour, whom I regularly beat in school, came sixth and made the team," Komon recalled. Masai later went on to win the 10,000m bronze at the Berlin Worlds in 2009.
 
 "I was disappointed but it made me more determined. In 2005, I went home after school and stayed for just three days. I left, informing just my mother, to train at a distant place in Rift Valley. The next year I qualified for the   in Fukuoka and won the second place in the U-20 race," the soft-spoken athlete said.
 
 Two years later, in 2008, he won another silver in the senior section at the world cross country and was now keen to go after world records. "Tergat had set a world record then and my vision now to set new marks," he said.
 
 Over the last seven years, the road race expert has added medals to his collection from around the world with his last big win coming at the   in 2014. "Now my target is to compete in Olympics and Worlds and for that I want to do well in marathon. I'm targeting the 2019 Worlds and 2020 Olympics. After Fukuoka, I think my career would hit the high again in Japan," the unassuming champion was confident.
 
 
