NEW DELHI: Commuters on the ill-fated Blue line had a tough time yet again on Thursday as   lost “view” of the trains from its operational control centre, forcing their manual monitoring.

 The glitch, which was a repeat of Wednesday’s problem, occurred at 11.28am and could be rectified only by 12.20pm. It led to bunching of trains and delayed journeys, forcing many to take other modes of transport. In damage control, the   later posted a video on its website, explaining the cause of the snag and apologising to commuters for the inconvenience.
 
 DMRC, meanwhile, is in a fix as the reasons for the recurrent snag are yet to be ascertained. Spokesperson   said the problem seemed to be power-related, though a full inquiry was underway.
 
 On Thursday, though, Delhi Metro was literally in the dark as OCC lost power and, thus, view and control of 63 trains that were on the corridor during the peak hour. Dayal told TOI, “The screen went black in OCC. It might appear similar to an aircraft going off radar, but was not as dangerous as the local control centres, numbering around 17 on this line, took over immediately.”
 
 With the OCC losing view -- or ID of the trains-- the control and monitoring was handed over to local “interlocking” stations along the 57km-long corridor. In effect, the centralised operation of trains via the OCC was suspended, and manual monitoring handed over to 17 interlocking stations along the entire corridor. An interlocking station is one where trains can change tracks and have reversal facility.
 
 From these 17 interlocking stations, controllers managed the trains manually through tetra phone sets and gave directions to train operators. The automatic train control was working fine during this time, said Dayal, with only the communication between the controller and the train operator being manual. “Trains appeared to crawl as their speeds were deliberately reduced keeping safety in mind,” he added.
 
 Power resumed only at 11.32am and all control came back to OCC at11.43am. “OCC then started giving identification to each trains from 11.49am and completed this at 12.20pm,” said Dayal.
 
 A Delhi Metro official explained that although power was restored within four minutes, OCC gained full control of operations only at 11.43am. Dayal added: “A detailed investigation into the probable cause of the fault will be started in the night after revenue hours and an alternative channel for power supply backup is also planned.”
 
 
