Aurangabad: Better and faster connectivity leading to development in the region, improved access to nearby growth centers and reduced travel time and cargo delays are some of the key benefits the   Expressway is expected to offer.

 Amid growing opposition from a section of farmers for the ambitious project, the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report for Jalna-Aurangabad stretch has shed light on key takeaways of the project for the region.
 
 The 155-km Jalna-Aurangabad stretch of the Expressway has proposed financial expenditure of Rs 7,579 crore with the process of land acquisition slated to pick up pace following the recent declaration of compensation rates.
 
 As per the EIA report, key long-term environmental and social benefits from the project will arise mainly from traditional sources such as reduced travel time, cargo delays, vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs, among others.
 
 The E-way as a whole will be developed as a high-density corridor establishing high-speed connectivity between Nagpur and Mumbai. As a first step in this direction, the state government has decided to develop and strengthen the linkages and connectivity of major cities of state with Mumbai.
 
 One such connectivity is planned between Nagpur and Mumbai, which includes links with and through Shivmadka, Wardha, Karanja, Aurangabad, Sinnar, Bhiwandi along with links from Karanja, Loni and Nagzari corridor.
 
 “At present, Nagpur is connected with Mumbai through various sections of state highway which passes through Wardha-Malegaon-Jalna-Aurangabad-Sinnar-Thane. This route has poor geometry at many locations and witnesses congestion. Besides, this route connectivity through national highway also exists but it traverses through considerably longer route,” a forest department official said, while quoting a project note emphasising the importance of Samruddhi Expressway.
 
 The proposed E-way, according to authorities will support development of Marathwada and Vidarbha — two region considered as backward traditionally.
 
 “The ambitious road-project is planned to develop new industrial, educational, commercial, tourism nodes in the vicinity of E-way at a regular interval of 40-45 kilometer. The project will side by side, generate large scale temporary and permanent employment to the skilled and unskilled workers, thereby offering employment opportunity to mainly local population,” authorities said.
 
 The entire length of the proposed Expressway is about 701 kilometer and for the ease of planning, design and execution the total length of the project is divided into five packages, coinciding with district boundaries — including 155-km stretch of Jalna-Aurangabad.
 
 The compensation towards land to be acquired in parts of Aurangabad district for proposed Samruddhi Express highway has been around five times that of the Ready Reckoner (RR) rates with money in the rage of around 48.5 lakh to Rs 1 crore per hectare would be doled out to land holders. 
 
 
