NAGPUR: The students of Gadchiroli’s Chatgaon-based Dr  , mostly girls, have sought an appointment with chief minister  , seeking to salvage their future which now seems to be heading nowhere. The students, who have filed various complaints of sexual harassment and cheating with Gadchiroli police against institution director and founder Pramod Salve in February this year, now want to get themselves transfer to other institutions to restore their already derailed academic career.

 “Only transfer to a safe and better institution can save our career and dream,” said a student who was in the city, along with her peers, on Saturday to address a media conference on Saturday. 
 
 One of the students, speaking to TOI, charged Salve with taking undue advantage of his position. “Dr Salve would summon students inside his room where he lived alone on various pretexts before making sexual advances towards them. He also forced students to consume liquor and entertain his friends at parties inside the premises,” she said.
 
 Adding to students’ woes, Salve would also threat them to fail in the examinations. “Dr Salve would barge into women students’ room late in the evening on the pretext of checking mobile phones and also peep through windows apart from passing lewd comments. He would also ask them to clean his room while in undergarments,” said another student. 
 
 The institution, which started in 2005, is affiliated to   of health sciences in Nashik. The institution offers courses in Auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), general nursing and bachelor of science in nursing. 
 
 Besides sexual harassment charges, the students claimed the standard of education is also not up to the mark at the institution as there is no regular teacher, faculties or even books and libraries. “Though ANM and general nursing students would pass, many students in BSc nursing would fail or get incomplete results as their documents were not properly submitted to the university. Some of the students also visited the university with the grievances but got little help,’ said a student. 
 
 The aggrieved students now want to see Salve, who recently got an interim relief from high court after being arrested by Gadchiroli police in one of the five offences registered against him, behind bars again.
 
 The high court hear the matter again on March 20. Gadchiroli additional SP Manjunath Shinge said police would oppose his bail before the high court. 
 
 TOI tried to contact Salve and also sent him a message but his mobile phone was found “not reachable”. 
 
