LUCKNOW: The formal bugle for the crucial 2017 UP assembly polls would be blown on Tuesday with the issuance of notification for the first phase of assembly elections. According to the Election Commission of India, the first phase would witness 73 assembly constituencies in 15 districts of the state (western part) going to polls.

 The districts going to polls in the first phase are Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras, Agra, Firozabad, Etah and Kasganj. Vote Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines would be used in Agra (Agra Cantonment and Agra South), Aligarh (Aligarh), Ghaziabad (Ghaziabad) and Meerut (Meerut). 
 
 The first phase will cover western UP districts, including riot-scarred Muzaffarnagar and Shamli, where BJP had fared well in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections primarily due to polarisation.
 
 Nomination process would commence immediately after the issuance of notification at around 11.00 am. Nominations could be filed on all the working days from 11.00 am to 3.00 pm.
 
 As per the poll schedule, the last date to file nominations in January 24, while scrutiny of nomination papers would be held on January 25. The last date of withdrawal of nominations in January 27. Voting would be held on February 11, while counting of votes would be done on March 11.
 
 During the nomination process, the candidates have to compulsorily provide their photographs and also mention their nationality.
 
 Elaborating further additional chief electoral officer Pramod Kumar Pandey, said, “Vulnerability mapping of the assembly constituencies is going on, and it would be finalized, once the candidates’ list is finalized.”
 
 On the recent statement of BSP chief Mayawati that her party would give ‘hard cash’ to youth instead of laptops or phones, additional CEO PK Pandey, said, “The statement is under consideration of the ECI, and appropriate action would be taken.” As per the directions of the ECI, the candidates would also have to furnish the no-demand certificate vis-à-vis electricity bill, water bill, telephone bill and rent.
 
