Despite countless campaigns, open letters and posts on social media, the government went on and implemented a 12 per cent   on sanitary napkins and tampons. This, at a time when more than 70 per cent of women in the country don't have access to proper sanitary products. Joining the countrywide protests in a creative way,  , a Delhi-based art consultant, initiated the   last month. His artwork demonstrates blood-soaked sanitary pads and   questioning the government on exempting tax on sindoor, bindis and bangles. “This was my artwork project as part of the World Menstrual Hygiene Day, which was later shared by a lady based in the US on Instagram. That went viral when the GST was levied on sanitary napkins,” he says. And Rajkamal's is not the only male voice to rise against GST on women's health products. 

  Software engineer Omkar Jog asks why, when bindis and sindoor are exempt from tax, the government has not done the same for sanitary products, that are a necessity. “Why tax sanitary napkins and not condoms or bindi or sindoor? It is beyond my understanding,” he says. Umesh Satarkar, an advertising professional, echoes the same question. “It is insensitive of the government to tax women for bleeding. We live in a country where symbols of marriage - like sindoor - are apparently more important than women's necessities,” he says. Rajkamal adds that the government should come up with alternative and cheaper solutions, instead of taxing these products. “I wanted to let people know that periods are not a woman's choice. On one hand, the government supports gender equality and on the other they levy tax on a basic necessity and consider it to be a luxury product. There are condom machines everywhere. Why not install a sanitary napkin vending machine everywhere?” he asks.
 
  
 
 
  Meanwhile, exempting bindis, bangles and sindoor from tax has made everyone wonder whether the government thinks that only these things define Indian women. 
 
  Tasneem Mukadam, a teacher, says, “Marriage is not the ultimate goal in a woman’s life. For at least 20-25 years, a woman will not even need these things in her routine. But pads are required from the time a girl reaches puberty. Our government seems to value adornment over health and hygiene.” Jhanvi Deopura, an IT professional, and a mother of two girls, expresses concern over the expenses on pads and tampons. “There are three women in my house and we spend more than `300 a month. I can afford these, but what about rural women and our maids?” she asks. "This is not a luxury item. We are women, we go through this every month and not by choice. Sanitary napkins should cost a minimum and should definitely be tax-free," she adds. Ekta Katti, who operates a takeaway service, says, “I know many girls who don't use quality sanitary napkins because they are expensive. People don't realise how essential it is to use napkins that are dry and comfortable. Every woman deserves to wear quality napkins without worrying about the cost.”
 
  
 
 
  The Delhi High Court, on July 18, sought the response of the Centre on a plea against imposition of 12 per cent GST on sanitary napkins. The bench was of the view that the issue needs to be examined, therefore, the authorities need to justify their stand in their counter affidavit. The court has fixed the matter for hearing on November 15. The petition filed by Zarmina Israr Khan, who is a PhD scholar in African studies at JNU, challenged the levying of 12 per cent GST on sanitary napkins, terming it illegal and unconstitutional.
 
  “An essential has been taxed. Kumkum and bangles are a choice, but they have been exempted from GST. Menstruation is a biological function, not a choice. The government that talks about  , does not seem to respect women.”
 
  - Rutuja Awhad, voiceover artist
 
 
