Coimbatore: The state government that is reeling under severe financial crisis is finally getting a Rs 1,800-grant from the Central Finance Commission for 2017-2018 for its local bodies. Commissioner of municipal administration G Prakash said this was just 50% of the grant; the remaining will be credited in a few months. 

 Since independence, all local bodies - urban and rural - have been receiving a grant from the commission which is for five-year duration. Local bodies in all states are heavily dependent on these funds to carry out day-to-day activities such as paying their bills, loans and to take up infrastructure projects. This grant is usually sanctioned in two instalments; the first instalment reaches the state governments in July. But Tamil Nadu was denied these funds as it did not conduct local body elections. “Since the local body elections were not held and the council is not in place in rural and urban local bodies, we did not receive these funds,” said an official.
 
 A month ago, municipal administration minister S P Velumani, along with commissioner of municipal administration G Prakash and two other officials, visited Union minister of rural development, panchayati raj and mines Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum requesting him to consider Tamil Nadu as a special case as pending court cases were the reason behind delaying the local body elections. 
 
 A senior official told TOI that the elections were supposed to be held in May, 2016. “After cases were filed, the elections got delayed. We explained to the minister that these funds are very crucial and local bodies will be crippled without the funds. He treated it as a special case and sanctioned the funds,” said the official. 
 
 The central government will release another Rs 2,000 crore after a few months. “These funds will reach the local bodies within a week or 10 days. The funds will reach the state’s financial department and will be disbursed to the local bodies based on norms,” said an officer.
 
 Various local bodies have been delaying salaries, not carrying out works for lack of funds. 
 
 
