KOLHAPUR: The residents of Tardal village had an amusing experience last week. Over 100   (NSS) student volunteers from DKTE society textile and engineering institute visited Tardal village to create awareness about  .

 The camp began on January 2 in Tardal village which is some 40 kms away from city, near Ichalkaranji. The villagers had hands on experience to learn about digital economy and ways to use it in day to day life.
 
 Coordinator of the six-day long camp, S G Kanitkar said, “This was one of a kind experience for both the villagers and students. While we were conducting the survey, we tried to find out whether the villagers were aware about latest applications available for cashless economy. On surveying about 1,400 houses here, the results of the findings were really interesting.”
 
 He added, “We surveyed around 4,870 adults and asked if they knew to handle a smartphone or not, whether they own a debit/credit card and if they have one, how often do they use it. We even inquired if they have opened a Jandhan account.”
 
 The survey findings were very interesting. Kanitkar said, “As many as 1,304 people possessed a smartphone, while 2,017 citizens owned a debit card. As many as 2,807 people had opened their Jandhan accounts.”
 
 A third year student of fashion designing, Snehal Madake said, “It is our responsibility to promote the cashless economy. Government must take steps to create more awareness among villagers about digital ways of payment. The NSS camp helped us a lot to connect with the reality of villagers and help them to move towards digital economy.”
 
 She added, “We were pleased to see that villagers were open to learn about digital economy. Many were interested to know more about cashless economy. They wanted to know more about how an application can help in getting things done.”
 
 Another student from textile engineering, Rahul Shendore said, “Most of the villagers were aware about the basics of the economy. However, there is a long way to go.”
 
 He added, “It is easy to implement things in the cities but it is equally difficult to implement the same in villages. Right from the internet connectivity to the home-delivery of the products, it is not that easy in the rural areas.”
 
 Another student, Shivtej Padole said, “Apart from surveying, students also participated in cleanliness drive in the village.”
 
 “There were various gust lectures that were been organised during the camp,” he added.
 
 
