BENGALURU: The death of Nduka Ifeayani Christian, the Nigerian who allegedly fell off a scooter during a police operation 10 days ago in north Bengaluru, is still a mystery. The autopsy that could establish whether he died due to the fall or because of any other reason is yet to be conducted.

 Even though a letter was sent to the Nigerian embassy requesting a no-objection certificate (NOC) from Nduka’s family, the same is yet to come. Without the NOC, the postmortem cannot be done.
 
 On Tuesday, foreigners staying in the city and their attendant issues came up for discussion in the legislative assembly. Home minister G Parameshwara said since 2015, 189 cases of foreign nationals involved in criminal activities have been registered. He was replying to queries raised by Yelahanka MLA S R Vishwanath about Africans staying illegally in the city and their activities. 
 
 However, representatives of various African communities living in Bengaluru take exception to such stereotyping. They say the number of cases appears insignificant, especially when compared to the population of foreigners in the city (32,000-odd). 
 
 According to home department statistics, as on March 2015, Bengaluru had 32,463 foreigners living in the city, of which 19,671 were students without any criminal background. Only 1,156 foreigners were overstaying and this number was 3% of the total count. 
 
 Members of the foreign community say the questions that need to be raised include the discrimination they face in getting basic amenities in the city. A walk down any street in the neighbourhood of Hennur Road, east Bengaluru, will give one a clear picture of the friction between African community members and the locals, students maintain. 
 
 “People are not very welcoming. They don’t want to be friends with us or even have a proper conversation,” said a student from Chad, central Africa, who didn’t want to be named. “The rents are high and many owners don’t even want to lease out space to us. Even getting autorickshaws at normal rate is difficult,” he added. 
 
 Perceptions and, in some cases, altercations have created an image of African students being troublemakers, something which even residents don’t hesitate expressing. However, African students fear that such generalizations could only make their stay in the city that much tougher.
 
