PATNA: Around 10,000 policemen and women and at least 100 magistrates besides 42 ambulances and 1885 coordinators have been deployed to maintain law and order during the   event in Patna district on Saturday. Vehicular traffic will remain affected between 10am and 3pm due to restrictions on Saturday. The human chain is to be formed between 12.15pm and 1pm. However, Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Friday said the human chain would be formed on only one flank of the roads while the other flank would be kept free for traffic.

 Out of the 11,292km-long proposed human chain scheduled to be formed across the state, 377.4km would be in Patna district (168.8km on main route and 213.6km on sub-routes). The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the event and 377 sectors have been marked on the routes with one coordinator and five officials to monitor every 1km of the human chain in the district, the DM said.
 
 He said plans were being chalked out how to form human chain and simultaneously allow vehicular traffic on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu as only one flank of the bridge connecting Patna with Vaishali is open with no alternative route. Vehicular traffic from Dak Bungalow crossing to Koelwar via   and Maner, Kargil Chowk to Deedarganj, Gol Ghar to Digha and from Exhibition Road flyover to Gandhi Setu would remain affected.
 
 Agarwal said in case of emergency, vehicles would be allowed on the flank on which human chain would be formed. He said at least 8 lakh people are expected to take part in the Saturday’s event. “We have a separate traffic plan for Saturday in which alternate routes and diversions have been finalised,” the DM said
 
 He also said auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) would be on duty with glucose and water. He also said water tankers would also be available at regular intervals.
 
 SSP   said apart from 10,000 cops, 10 bomb detection and disposal squads (BDDSs) and 20 quick response teams (QRTs) have also been deployed. “Four teams will be dedicated to Gandhi Maidan. The QRTs will remain active even after the event for clearing the traffic across the city,” he said.
 
