VEIN PUIN (TARN TARAN): Mortal remains of   were consigned to flames with full   at his native village Vein Puin on Tuesday but not before his wife had the coffin forced open to have one last glimpse of her husband. 

  (42) and BSF 200th Battalion's head constable Prem Sagar were beheaded by the Pakistan army's Border Action Team, comprising militants and army regulars at Krishna Ghati in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday morning.
 
 On Tuesday, the Naib Subedar's body arrived here in a chopper and was taken to his house in a coffin wrapped in the tricolour. Both, accompanying Army officials and local administration, were reluctant to show the mutilated body to the soldier's relatives, which evoked sharp criticism and opposition from his family members and villagers which delayed the cremation.
 
 "I will not let his cremation take place unless I see my husband's body," Naib Subedar's wife Paramjit Kaur said. Soon after rest of the family members, including his brothers and parents gathered and forcibly opened the coffin despite opposition from the Army officers and local administration officials.
 
 The family plunged into grief all over again when they saw the mutilated body. They raised slogans against Pakistan before the cremation took place.
 
 The martyr's youngest son Sahildeep Singh lit the pyre. Overflowing with emotions, Paramjit said she wanted the Prime Minister or Punjab chief minister to attend the funeral. "We also want to see the enemy's heads. That will be the proper revenge for the death of my husband," she said. She said her son would become an Army officer to take revenge for his father.
 
 Naib Subedar Singh's mother was also inconsolable. The martyr's daughter said, "I am proud of my father who died for the nation."
 
 The soldier's brother Ranjit Singh said that he had just constructed a house in the village and was planning to hold a housewarming party soon.
 
 Tarn Taran deputy commissioner D P S Kharbanda said the state government had given an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the martyr's family and the   had given Rs 1 lakh. He said another Rs 7 lakh would be delivered to the family from the state government in next few days. In addition, his wife would also be offered a government job.
 
 Leader of opposition in the assembly H S Phoolka attended the cremation. He said, "The Centre should do something to prevent such incidents which are very shameful." Congress MLAs Ramanjit Singh Sikki and   were among hundreds who came to pay their respect.
 
