JAISALMER:   has directed its   to keep   compulsorily with them. This kit contains   along with two other tablets which are generally taken during heart attack.

 Looking at increasing numbers of suicides among jawans, global mental health management tool programme has been started and an application has been developed in which to reduce mental stress among jawans, information is taken in written and efforts are being made to solve the problems. This was informed by IG (director, medical) BSF Dr H L Raskaran during his two-day visit to Jaisalmer.
 
 On the occasion, DIG Dr Jayant Kumar, Dr Satyendra Kumar, Commandant (medical) A K Sahi, Jaisalmer South DIG Naresh Kumar, Commandant Vipin Pantri, senior medical officer Lokesh Khajuria and other BSF officials were present.
 
 Raskaran said there was an increase in the number of heart patients in BSF which was really worrying and looking to it and to control it, BSF jawans and officers have been directed to keep heart attack prevention kit. This kit has two tablets of Disprin, two tablets of Sorberi and in case of heart attack, these medicines give lot of relief. 
 
 Raskaran inpsected hospital of BSF and checked ward and laboratory. He said, this kit is with every officer and jawan and monitoring is done at commandant and other level and randomly it is checked whether the jawans have the kit or not. It has given good results, as in BSF 68th battalion, four jawans had heart attack of which three took the medicines and their lives were saved, he said.
 
 Dr Lokeshwari Khajuria was given appreciation letter by BSF DG.
 
 He said to provide all kinds of help to person getting heart attack, a programme has been started in which CPR is taught to jawans at the border out posts. The jawans are being trained as what kind of help can be extended on jawan getting heart attack.
 
 Raskaran said a GMHAT programme has been started looking to increasing suicides. Through this, written information is taken from the jawans about their things responsible for mental stress and tension is detected early and disposed of too early. Apart from this, initiative has started to allow newly married jawans to keep their wives with them for some time ad it is yielding good results.
 
 He said BSF doctors are updating themselves with latest innovations and modernization. These days, CME programmes are being organized for doctors at many places so that they can update their knowledge.he said in north east to control malaria among BSF, working is being done on special action plan and along with yoga programmes are being organized instead of PT and capacity of jawans has increased. He said HIV patients in BSF are continuously declining and continuous monitoring is being done. He accepted that there is shortage of doctors in BSF and efforts are being made to recruit more doctors. Efforts are being made to provide latest resources and recently all leading hospitals of BSF have been provided with x-ray machines and to treat many diseases and for operations, MoUs are being signed with big hospital groups.
 
 
