CHANDIGARH: In a case of   by   in 2012, additional chief secretary (home)   has come down heavily on the department, saying   cannot be allowed to go scot free. 

 While referring to the case of Panchkula resident Om Uppal, assaulted by cops in May 2012, Niwas has raised doubts on the inquiry reports of ADGP (crime) P K Agrawal, then Ambala-Panchkula commissioner of police Ajay Singhal and then Ambala deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Surinder Pal Singh. He has also has directed DGP B S Sandhu to review their orders and impose penalties on the cops. 
 
 It was on May 31, 2012, when Uppal’s car parked in front of a house was taken away to Sector-14 police station. As per the complaint, when Uppal visited the police station, he was asked to pay Rs 500 to release the car. As he insisted for copy of the challan receipt, Inspector Virender Singh put him behind the lock-up and assaulted him along with other cops.
 
 “Once the charge of misbehaviour and   of the situation stands proved in the inquiry proceedings conducted by ACP Rahul Dev, HPS, against inspector Virender Singh, the delinquent cannot be allowed to go free without imposition of punishment consequent to such proved allegations,” reads the April 26 order on victim’s representation.
 
 Niwas has held that orders of punishing authority (DCP Surinder Pal Singh) as well as the appellate authority (commissioner of police Ajay Singhal) of “holding Inspector Virender not guilty are not sustainable” in the absence of any effective rebuttal to the initial inquiry report by ACP Rahul Dev. The SHO also falsely implicated Uppal for voluntary causing hurt to deter public servant from duty and criminal intimidation. 
 
 Niwas also said that state crime department head, ADGP PK Agrawal’s report was full of discrepancies, “Why was not the CCTV footage of the entire day preserved? The version of  , an independent witness was ignored. When the medical examination of the applicant was conducted by Dheeraj Setia (then ACP) himself and the applicant being in police custody only till the time he was admitted in hospital for medical examination, where from did he get injuries?” Interestingly, Kapoor submitted an affidavit that Uppal was already in the lock up by the time he arrived. Police eventually submitted a cancellation report which was accepted by the judicial magistrate.
 
