MUMBAI: A Bandra businessman on Monday filed a   before   seeking action against “self-proclaimed gau rakshaks” in  . Expressing apprehension that the   vigilante groups could stir up trouble during the upcoming Bakri Eid festival, Shadab Patel has urged the court to direct the state to take effective steps to protect citizens, especially those who deal in trade and transport of cattle, from lynch mobs.

 “The cow vigilantes groups and sanghatnas are taking law in their own hands and immediate action should be taken against them. They are a threat as they cause disturbance or riot-like situation in the name of beef,” said Patel in the petition filed through his lawyer, Asif Naqvi. “The citizens have a right to life and right to carry out business and trade, guaranteed by the Constitution of India. It cannot be be violated by such cow vigilantes, whose main aim is to create a sense of fear in the minds of people,” said the petitioner.
 
 The petition claimed that since 2014, around 24 persons had been killed allegedly by cow vigilantes across India. It listed various incidents from the killing of Mohammed Akhlaq, to Pehlu Khan, Junaid Khan and the most recent attack on a man last month in Nagpur. 
 
 “The state and Centre have miserably failed to curb such attacks, hence it is necessary for the court to make guidelines for preventive and safety measures,” said the petitioner. The PIL has asked the court to direct the state to set up a 24-hour helpline to “keep a check on illegal acts by cow vigilantes moving around freely in the name of cow protection in large groups”. The state should also ask each police station to maintain a list of such vigilante groups in their areas and submit a report to court on action taken against them. The petitioner said the state should provide 24-hour security to traders when transporting livestock. He sought implementation of a Supreme Court order suspending the Union government’s notification banning sale and purchase of cattle at animal markets for slaughter.
 
 “If the state cannot provide safety to citizens who deal in cattle trade and transport, they should be provided gun licences to save their lives,” added the petition. The PIL is likely to be heard later this week.
 
 
