HYDERABAD: The ongoing Metro Rail work in the city has turned into a nightmare for commuters. Already battling severe traffic congestion, courtesy the rapidly rising number of vehicles on Hyderabad's streets, commuters rue how the Metro construction has only added to their miseries. Reason: shrinking carriageways coupled with `odd' structures springing up bang in the middle of some arterial stretches.

 Case in point: two sets of staircase that have been planted in the middle of the road at   and Prakash Nagar, bringing traffic to a crawl. While Metro authorities have plans to have separate the service lanes running parallel to the two staircases, these are yet to come up. “During peak hours, one can't drive beyond 10 km per hour speed in the area. Vehicles try and go from both sides of the structure and then realign after crossing the small stretch. Considering that many motorists also try and overtake each other around the same spot, it further brings down the traffic speed,“ said A Sumitra, a regular commuter along this road.
 
 When asked about this concern, MA&UD minister K T Rama Rao said: “I have already discussed with officials concerned about this specific traffic junction and instructed them to expedite the works.“ He added: “The traffic problem posed by Metro Rail works or alignment is unavoidable and for a temporary period. Projects like this, during their construction period, do create traffic snarls. But people should understand that it is for the betterment of the system.“ The minister also said that these stairs are meant for those who use the bus and there will be several exit points.
 
 In the interim, commuters from have no choice but to put up with the menace. Hyderabadis who cross through locations like the Oliphanta Bridge in Secunderabad, Maitrivanam in Ameerpet, Nizampet and Sultan Bazar, where stray pillars have cropped up in the middle of the road, are among those worst affected.
 
 “While travelling from BHEL to Panjagutta, the shortest route is via Ameerpet. But I find the Jubilee Hills route to be the quickest, even though it is 5 km longer. The Panjagutta to Ameerpet stretch is chaotic as the road width has shrunk because of the Metro works. It's a nightmare to be caught in a traffic snarl on that stretch,“ said Jagadish Rao, a motorist.
 
 Transport experts say that although such issues are likely be resolved once the Metro works are complete and the rail service stabilises, the bigger issue is the delay in completion.“It is possible to either change the infrastructure or change peoples' behaviour, but when you have everything in a cons tant state of flux, it is difficult to control. For now, every problem will have a single explanation, that it is a transitory issue.It will remain so till the work is completed. They should finish it off quickly,“ said Anant Maringanti, director, Hyderabad Urban Labs.
 
 In their defence, Metro authorities said that the problem persists across the globe.“World over, the road size is getting reduced and adding road space is not being looked at as a solution. There is a need to have a limited carriageway to reduce road usage and instead add bus bays,“ said   , managing director,   Rail Limited.
 
