Mumbai: For HSBC, India was the third-largest market in terms of profit after Hong Kong and China in 2016 with a profit of $743 million. Last year, the British multinational channelled one out of every four dollars of foreign direct investment (FDI) into India, including the record Vodafone deal. In an interview with TOI,  , CEO,   India, speaks of how the bank is looking to wrest market share from Indian lenders that are struggling with the overhang of bad loans. Excerpts:

 Does the government ordinance on NPAs help banks?
 
 The fundamental issue in the banking sector as a whole is that there is not enough capital to absorb losses. Most chairmen of Indian banks are very smart people. They know what their losses are. The issue is if they take the losses, their capital ratio will fall below the minimum 9%. At the same time, you have got the problem of no new capital being generated through lending and you also have a situation when capital ratios have got to rise to comply with Basel III. The government also does not appear to be stepping up with the kind of money that is wanted. At the same time, the equity markets are not that confident of investing in these  . You are talking about a capital shortfall of $90 billion. This is a very huge number. This amendment gives   an authority they already had. The RBI can direct the bank to institute bankruptcy proceedings. The problem is banks do not have the capital to take haircuts on their loans. There is no easy answer — large losses have to be taken.Will you be looking to grab market share from the strained banks
 
 Yes. This gives us good opportunity … us being banks that have strong balance sheets. Although we have seen some migration of corporate funding to the debt capital markets, Indian companies do depend materially upon borrowing from the banking system.   has brought a lot of liquidity into the banking system. To make a loan you need two things — liquidity and capital. Banks may have a lot of liquidity, but they may still not be able to lend because their capital is very low. But for a bank like us, when you have good liquidity and strong capital, you are in a very good position to build assets.
 
 Is the downsizing over? Are you now looking at expansion?
 
 Last year we reduced our branch network from 50 to 26. The reason is that for our customer segment, we see a very high propensity to adopt digital channels and our branch footfall has been reducing. These branches were supporting less than 10% of the customers, most of who decided to stay with us.
 
 The old method of acquiring customers through branches is no longer relevant. Credit cards are being acquired through digital channels. So we are continuing to make investments in how we originate, we continue to invest in automation of what we do and we will see deployment of technology to make it easier for customer to interact with the bank.
 
 Our aspiration is to be India’s leading global bank. So we focus on multinational companies coming to India and Indian companies going global. We are able to do this effectively because we have an unparalleled network across the world. On the retail side, we focus on up-scale, internationally aspiring customers.
 
 Are you looking at any acquisitions?
 
 No. We are not allowed to make any acquisition of a bank even if we wished to. But we wouldn’t wish to because the price to book valuations is way too high and we think our own branding is as strong as anybody and why would we pay a premium for someone else’s brand? So our strategy is to grow by just building one customer at a time — not looking to buy portfolios or customers.
 
 HSBC has decoupled incentives from sales to relationship managers. How has that worked out?
 
 In the past, the person who sold X products got Y incentives. We stopped doing that because we felt it unduly incentivised relationship managers (RMs) to push products that would not necessarily be good for the customer but good for the RMs. Everybody in the market is still doing product push, except HSBC. What we are doing is linking pay of the RM to the benefit received by the customer so that the two are working together and not against each other. The impact in terms of sales is that our average sales per customer have come down. But we think that is a reasonable price to pay to have a business that is more aligned to the interest of the customer. In the last three years, we have not had one case of mis-selling among our customers.
 
 
