NAGPUR: “Earlier, cinema was seen only as a medium of entertainment, but a new wave has emerged. Countries like China and   used vodka and drugs to influence the population. Now they have turned towards cinema. Social problems are not sudden developments,” said  , a noted Hindi novelist, at the inauguration of Cinema of Resistance, or ‘Pratirodh ka Cinema’ as the festival has been named. Held at Dhanwate National College, Congress Nagar, the festival will continue till September 17. Films with social issues at its core have been chosen to be screened at the festival whose theme is the ‘Idea of India’.

 “Now, some emerging directors are also challenging dictatorship of their contemporaries while making films. However, when talking of films which focus on social change, we must question the number of opportunities such movies have received to be showcased. Apart from making meaningful cinema, creating avenues to showcase it are equally important,” said Rupda.
 
 The festival has been organized by principal of   in collaboration with Dakshinayan, Rashtrabhasha Parivar, Progressive Writers Group, Kalash Tirpude Mitra Sanstha, IPTA and Meraki Theatre.
 
 Sanjay Joshi, national convener of the festival said, “Technology in creating cinema has benefited not just the fraternity. It has made creating and showing meaningful cinema possible for others. It has connected different voices. When I see the spark in youths of today, I am reminded of my own journey which is still on. Usually, film festivals are restricted either by genres, fees or time limits, but this is free from all censorships.” He said that no funding has been accepted by corporates or companies.
 
 Professor Ratnakar Bhelkar termed the festival as a carnival of voices. He said, “Post-colonialism, the literature of resistance has been made more conspicuous. Voices that are silenced are heard through art and media. It is a welcome change,” he said. Quoting a dialogue from Stanley Kubric’s movie, he said, “Whatever the darkness, we should contribute our own light.”
 
 The inauguration was attended by Vira Sathidar, Soma Sen and other noted activists. Music videos ‘Sursuri Chai’ by Swaang and ‘Yeh Hitler ke Saathi’ by   were presented. It was followed by the screening of ‘Garam Hava’, a 1973 Urdu drama film credited for creating a new wave of art cinema movement in Hindi films.
 
