MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act court on Thursday convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old man to life imprisonment for repeatedly raping his   by threatening to kill her. 

 The girl, who was then 17 years old, had initially denied the allegations made against her   in court, but later admitted that she had done so only to save him. “My brother, sister and I are studying; none of us are earning. My uncles and aunts look after me. It is true that I wish that my father be released from jail. It is true that only with a view to save my father I am saying that he did not have forcible intercourse with me,” she told the court. The victim, a first-year banking insurance student, is the oldest of three children living in a joint family. 
 
 She told the court that her mother succumbed to tuberculosis in 2010. Revealing portions of the ordeal, the girl said that when her mother was alive she had lodged a police complaint against her father, who was employed as a driver, as he had come home drunk and beaten her and her brother.
 
 In her statement to the police given in 2014, the victim said that when she was around 12 years old, her father started touching her inappropriately. The victim said that at that time she did not understand what was happening to her, but later confided into one of her uncles who, in turn, counselled the father. She also told the police that in 2011, when she protested against the inappropriate touching, her father raped her and this continued over a period of time. The victim said her father threatened her and since he was looking after her siblings, she did not reveal the incident to anyone. 
 
 On April 10, 2014, her father came home drunk and began to touch her inappropriately. When she protested, her father started beating her and she ran out of the house. The accused then began to thrash his son, forcing her to call the police. The girl said that a woman saw her and enquired about what had happened. When the victim revealed the incident, the woman accompanied her to the police station and helped her record her statement.
 
