BENGALURU: A 21-year-old medical student volunteering for BBMP's pulse polio immunization campaign is critical after he fell from the second floor of an apartment in Jayanagar on Tuesday while allegedly trying to run away from a pet dog that wasn't on leash.  , a third-year undergraduate student of Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, Bengaluru, and the son of a doctor couple from Thrissur, has been admitted to  , Bannerghatta Road, with severe head injuries.

 However, police claim the dog was inside the house and Sachin tried to run away in panic after it started barking.
 
 “Although Sachin has undergone a successful surgery, he's still critical due to formation of blood clots in his brain. The next 48 hours are crucial,“ said Dr Arun L Naik, senior consultant neurosurgeon, Apollo Hospitals. Although Sachin has undergone a successful corrective surgery, he's still critical due to formation of blood clots in his brain. He also has a fracture in his left thigh bone. He is in the neuro intensive care unit now and the next 48 hours are crucial,“ said Dr Arun L Naik, senior consultant neurosurgeon at Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road.
 
 It was Sachin's second day at the BBMP's community level programme under the  . The young medico reached the second floor of a private apartment near Yediyur Lake in Jayanagar around 10:30am to administer polio drops when he was allegedly attacked by a barking pet dog in the corridor. The canine is said to have tried to pounce on him; a petrified Sachin hurriedly took back a few steps, when he slipped and fell. Another volunteer accompanying Sachin during the drive said, “The dog which was in the corridor wasn't on leash. Even before we could reach the door, the animal started barking and began jumping on Sachin which scared him. Sachin stepped back without looking behind. Though he tried holding onto the railings, he lost grip and fell on the ground floor.“
 
 Jayanagar police have registered a non-cognizable case (where there are no offenders or crime involved).
 
 A police officer at the hospital said, “We have been told that the family wasn't at home and their pet dog was locked inside. The volunteer got scared of the barking dog and, out of panic, jumped from the second floor.“
 
 Dr Manoranjan Hegde, BBMP health officer south zone, said, “It's a sad incident. It's for the first time in the history of a national immunisation campaign that such an accident has taken place. Now that we have realized there are possibilities of such mishaps, we will come up with some safety measures for our volunteers at the earliest.“
 
 The youth's parents - father an ENT specialist at   and mother a pathologist at  , Thrissur --are on their way to Bengaluru.
 
