NEW DELHI: Domestic flyers will now have to wait till March to know how punctual airlines really are before making correct choices based on this consideration. The   (DGCA) publishes   ( ) of airlines based on their domestic flights from four metros every month. But it has now discovered that the data collection for determining this may not have been correct and   chief   has formed a panel to go into this issue.

 "In view of some discrepancy observed in computation of OTP data, DGCA has constituted a committee to look into the matter as so as ensure the correctness by end of February. In the meantime, OTP data for December, 2016, will be published as per practice," said Bhullar. This means that correct OTP data of airlines can be expected only from March or April at the earliest.
 
 The issue of OTP has been a hotly contested one between airlines on one hand and airlines and airports on the other in recent times. The monthly data given by DGCA has become an important deciding factor when it comes to people choosing an airline based on its punctuality.
 
 Less than a fortnight back, low cost carrier IndiGo had complained of irregularities in OTP calculation at Mumbai Airport and had sought a probe into the data collection at that airport and other places too. IndiGo had accused Mumbai International Airport Pvt Ltd (MIAL) of monitoring OTP in a way that shows some "competing airlines" as more punctual than they may be in reality.
 
 "OTP is a very important indicator of performance of any airline including IndiGo. Any inconsistency in that data is a matter of grave concern… Any inaccurate data in public domain is bound to affect general perception and goodwill of any airline including IndiGo, which will hamper the level playing field in the aviation industry. This may also create wrong perceptions amongst customers and affect customer sentiments. (It’s) a matter of grave concern for IndiGo that there is more variance in favour of competing airlines," IndiGo’s EVP (operations control) Sanjeev Ramdas had complained to Bhullar.
 
 While promising to examine the complaint, MIAL sources had said: "What is reported by us to DGCA is based on filtered and coordinated data. (OTP) data is shared with airlines on daily basis and is cleaned on four factors: ramp returns (when aircraft returns to terminal for some reason after taxiing out); hangar movements; rescheduling and impractical ground times. OTP calculated by MIAL is on basis of actual push back time of aircraft."
 
 Some airlines say the arrival time of an aircraft is registered when it gets attached to an aerobridge and then that time is sent by a computer to airport operators. "Data compromise happens when this data is transferred to excel sheet. Same is the case with take-off for us. Our aircraft are equipped with system that automatically sends the information to air traffic control and MIAL. But that is not true for some of the other airlines who report manually through phone to ATC and MIAL. Verbally one can compromise two to five minutes," said an airline official.
 
