AHMEDABAD: Don't be surprised if you find known travel enthusiasts at home after   as many Amdavadis have chosen not to venture out for holidays this festive season. Thanks to cash flow issues and hotel tariffs going up after implementation of Goods and   (GST) and airfares skyrocketing, travel bookings around Diwali holidays are down by some 30%, suggest estimates by city-based tour operators. Even travel companies are taken in by surprise as holiday bookings never decline around Diwali.

 “Airfares usually tend to go up around Diwali due to dynamic pricing policy and as soon as the booking opens, a number of ticketing agents tend to make bulk bookings, thus limiting the number of seats amid high demand. Due to this, cost of travel goes up by at least 30%,“ said Manish Sharma, a city-based tour operator.
 
 “Moreover, customers continue to face cash flow issues, especially after demonetization, and thus many of them, who used to take short getaways, have opted not to travel this time,“ he added.
 
 Airfares to sectors such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Chennai in addition to those to tourist destina tions such as Kochi, Trivandrum, Goa, Shimla and Dehradun among others usually tend to go up, said tour operators.
 
 Travel agents are highly critical of the airfares as it doesn't serve the purpose of a low-cost carrier. That apart, after GST implementation, prices of four star and five star hotels have gone up, which also adds to the cost.Thanks to this, certain international destinations within short travel have gained over domestic ones due to the price parity.
 
 “There is a 10% increase in bookings for international holidays. Short-sector destinations such as Thailand and Dubai continue to remain popular as the costs are relatively low and therefore, instead of spending over domestic holidays, people prefer international trips at the same or slightly higher cost,“ said Anuj Pathak, secretary , Tour Operators and Travel Agents Association of Gujarat (TAG).
 
 Tour operators, in fact, have been highly critical of the skyrocketing airfares and the tax structure which is denting the tourism industry's business to a great extent.
 
