PUNE:   are gearing up to save and treat birds injured due to the manja, the glass-coated thread used to fly kites on  .

 The state government may have banned the nylon thread, referred to as  , but bird rescuers state that the glass-coated cotton variety is just as dangerous for the avians.
 
 According to bird rescuers from the city, they have received at least 135 calls regarding injured birds in the past month. Nearly half the calls have come in the last eight days. “The figure may run close to 1,000 by the end of the season. From an average of three rescues a day, the number now stands at 10,” representatives from   and People For Animals, Pune unit, stated on Friday.
 
 In fact, it is not just the commonly sighted birds that are at risk. “In the past month, I have rescued a barn owl, two koels (cuckoos), a myna and a greater short-toed lark (chandol). All these birds were injured due to the manja. This is apart from the various pigeons, crows and kites we rescue each week,” said Anil Avachite, who has been rescuing birds and snakes for the past 36 years.
 
 Avachite, who works in the water supply department at Sassoon Hospital, told TOI that he spends much of the season on rescues. “Any time we receive such a call, we bring the bird back to my place and administer first-aid. If the injury is too serious, such as vein being cut or a severe wound on the wing, then we take the bird to Katraj Zoo. Of the birds rescued this month, seven will not be able to fly again while four others have died,” he said.
 
 The problem goes beyond the day of the kite festival as well. “There are many used threads that turn into tensile traps between tree branches and buildings. While the birds are flying, they do not see the threads and get trapped in them,” Avachite explained.
 
 Chinese Manja still on sale
 
 Avachite said that while there is a ban on ‘Chinese Manja’, many traders in the city are selling it illegally. “They are selling the banned manja at five times the original price. We are also going to find these traders and report them to the police. We hope the police will take appropriate action in such cases,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
  has written to the four zonal deputy commissioners of police as well as commissioner of police to implement the ban of the nylon thread. Police stations located in areas where the traders function have also been similarly informed. The organisation has even written to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board.
 
 Report Bird Injuries to:
 
 People for Animals helpline – 9890044455
 
 Anil Avachite, rescuer – 9422349789
 
