PUNE: Senior army veterans have suggested a slew of measures to improve the current recruitment process of the  . 

 They are of the view that it is imperative to make certain changes to the current system to avoid future ‘embarrassment’ like paper leaks. The veterans also advised that the Court of Inquiry (CoI), constituted by the Army to investigate the recent paper leak case, should focus on the lapses which led to the paper leak.
 
 Speaking to TOI over the phone,   (retd), Director General, manpower planning and personnel services of the Indian Army, said, “I am quite surprised by the paper leak as the Army has a foolproof system where chances of such activities taking place are minuscule. I am confident that the CoI will find the loopholes in the system.”
 
 Chaturvedi said the army should conduct its written examination online in order to maintain transparency and reduce manual interference in the recruitment process.
 
 “As the army conducts recruitments regularly, the authorities should create a dedicated infrastructure for online examination at all the centres across the country. If the army carries out its recruitment process in phases, it will certainly reduce aspirants’ difficulties,”   suggested.
 
 Chaturvedi said, “The army should have different sets of question papers. Then, it will be difficult for the fraudsters to get hold of all the papers.” 
 
 Former Army Chief General   said army personnel involved in the paper leak should be punished. “The recruitment process has improved tremendously from what it used to be in the past, but still there is ample scope for improvement in the current system. The CoI should focus on the loopholes in the system and thereafter the authorities should rectify them.”
 
 General SF Rodrigues (retd) said the involvement of ex-servicemen in the case is unfortunate. 
 
 “One should understand that even after retiring from the force, one has to maintain integrity of the force. How can a person get involved in such an illegal activity? Such acts are unpardonable and these people should be punished harshly,” Rodrigues said.
 
 
