GHAZIABAD: Eight policemen of  , including   ( ) Sudhir Tyagi, have been suspended on charges of 'negligence of duty' by SSP Harinarayan Singh after an inquiry into the mysterious disappearance, murder and cremation of a 24-year-old auto driver, Mandeep Negi, earlier this month. 

 The victim, Mandeep Negi, had gone missing on July 9 near his house in G Block in Lajpat Nagar. His family members had registered a 'missing person' complaint on July 11. However, on July 15, the police informed his family members that his body was cremated three days earlier as an 'unidentified' body.
 
 "Late on the evening of July 9, Negi was thrashed by a group of nearly four men near Shyam Park who mistook him for a thief while he was strolling on the streets. The men also dialed the control room and a PCR rushed to the rescue of Negi. Inquiries have found that Negi was brought to Sahibabad police station around midnight on July 9. A CCTV camera in the station premises has captured the footage of Negi being brought in. He had sustained a head injury and was taken to a private hospital by cops. He was lated shifted to MMG hospital on July 10 morning. However, he died around 8am. The head injury was internal and he had suffered a hemorrhage. Cops at the police station did not enter the incident in the general diary. Incidentally, cops from the same police station had also received the 'missing complaint' filed by his family," additional superintendent of police, Anoop Kumar, told TOI. 
 
 The report, however, has ruled out custodial torture of Negi, as had been alleged by his family members. The inquiry was conducted by ASP Anoop Kumar.
 
 Apart from SHO Tyagi, the others who received the suspension order are Akhilesh Gaur (senior sub-inspector), the in-charge of Shyam Park police outpost, Neeraj Tyagi (sub-inspector), Atul Kumar (sub-inspector), Gajendra Singh (sub-inspector) and three constables -Rahul Mishra, Prem Singh Bhati and Sanjeev Kumar.
 
 Incidentally, SHO Sudhir Tyagi was suspended along with seven other cops in a case of 'custodial death' in June 2013. He was reinstated later. 
 
 An FIR against three persons who had allegedly thrashed Negi has been registered at Sahibabad police station. 
 
 The 20-page report was submitted to the SSP on Friday. "There was no torture inflicted on the deceased nor did the death take place in police custody. The negligence pertains to failure of cops at the local police station to identify a person whose missing complaint was registered and for cremating his body as 'unidentified'. After the cremation, the deceased was identified by tallying a photograph provided by his family with another photograph that had been shot when he was in an injured condition. Departmental proceedings are being initiated against the eight cops who have been suspended," SSP Harinarayan Singh said.
 
 The family of the victim said on Saturday that the cops should also be punished. 
 
 "Mere suspension is no punishment. The cops will invariably be back on duty after a couple of months. Strict punishment should be given to them," the victim's father, Girish Negi, said.
 
