PANAJI: The   of 85.3 percent among government servants who voted through postal ballots is higher than the state average of 82.23 % recorded on February 4 when the state went to polls.

 The margin of 10% of rejected postal ballots, however, does  . Over 17,500 postal ballots were issued to government servants including police personnel who were posted on polling duty. 
 
 North Goa recorded a polling percentage of 82.9 percent for postal ballots while South Goa polled 87.6 percent. 
 
 A number of government servants abstained from exercising their franchise for various reasons.
 
 In the assembly constituency of Pernem, 182 voters didn't send in their postal ballots. Similarly in Marcaim and Poriem, the postal ballots of over 144 and 109 government and police personnel didn't come in. 
 
 One government employee who chose not to cast her vote said she didn't feel her vote would be kept a secret. “I felt there was no confidentiality and this put me off. I purposely chose not to send in my vote,” she told TOI. 
 
 More than 12 percent of postal ballots received, or 1,647, were rejected in the state, an average of 52 votes per   and 34 per constituency in South Goa.
 
 This is likely to raise eyebrows, as a sizeable percentage of the   were manning booths and actually guiding voters how to cast their votes.
 
 They were given more than a month, until the morning of counting day, March 11 to send in their ballots.
 
 One counting official said postal ballots are rejected when these are received without the declaration form and when there is no signature of the voter on the declaration form or attestation by a gazetted officer. 
 
  If the serial number on the declaration form doesn't match with the smaller envelope that contains the   paper, it is also rejected.
 
 The voting percentage of 85.3 among government servants who voted through postal ballots is higher than the state average of 82.23 % recorded on February 4 when the state went to polls. More than 12% (1,647) postal ballots were rejected in the state during the 2017 polls.
