LUCKNOW: Two days after five people died when a car hit them as they slept inside a temporary   home in Dalibagh, TOI conducted a survey to find out why people were compelled to sleep outside LMC’s permanent homes even though they could accommodate almost 2,000 destitute every night. It was shocking to find that most of the homes had less than 10% occupancy despite being located in busy market places.

 The basic purpose of shelter homes in the capital remains defeated when people from nearby towns are denied access only because they don’t carry ID cards. In an inane bias against women, most homes don’t even have provision for them. While LMC’s rulebook doesn’t assert for an ID card or prohibit women’s entry, shelter home guards turn them away, forcing them to sleep either on footpaths or at temporary camps set up by NGOs, leading to poor occupancy.
 
 Homes meant for the destitute are either encroached upon by nearby vendors and shopkeepers, like in Daliganj (near  ) and Nabiullah Road (Chowk), in other areas, like   and Charbagh (Lokmanganj), LMC’s own staff can be found using the premises. TOI found that out of the four halls, only the one in Naibullah was open for the destitute. There too, stacks of cups and utensils were piled inside the kitchen. The residents said those belong to the tea vendor outside and they are not allowed to use any other room. 
 
 Komal, a shopkeeper near the Jiamau shelter home, said that every night many people are denied access just because they don’t carry ID cards. “There are families of patients being treated at cancer hospital who want to stay the night here. But guard refuses them entry, claiming that shelter homes are not meant for families. Even poor patients’ families are needy but the staff lacks humanity.” The Daliganj home is being used by nearby residents as a community centre and playground for children, in its guard’s knowledge. 
 
 Littering and unkempt washrooms are another big turnoffs. The Aminabad home has no electricity supply. The washbasins don’t have taps while water leaks outside the home. Engineering college’s shelter home has four washrooms of which two are locked and two are filthy. Aamir Iliyas, a migrant who sleeps outside the Aminabad home, told TOI, “I was denied access as the guard is not letting anyone without ID enter the home. I am a migrant from Bihar but don’t carry my ID.”
 
 Women workers suffer the most as many homes don’t allow access to them unless they bring an approval from a higher authority. In most homes, basic amenities like washrooms, kitchens and halls are covered in dust. The residents complain there’s no staff for cleaning rooms nor are the blankets ever washed. The washrooms are so dirty they’re not fit to use. 
 
 LMC’s zonal official Ashok Singh said, “LMC’s rulebook doesn’t make an ID card mandatory for checking into a home. Even women’s entry is not prohibited. If guards are doing so, it is wrong. If people have a complaint, they should come to us.” He said that most homes remain vacant because of their location.   has started putting hoardings in public areas to make people aware about the homes’ location. “We have put up hoardings at Charbagh, Kaiserbagh, Vikramaditya Marg and Polytechnic etc; on Tuesday,” he said. 
 
 (With inputs from Mirah Zamin and Riya Maurya)
 
 
