NEW DELHI: Slamming the   ( ) for   built by migrant artisans, the high court on Wednesday wondered how will   be celebrated if there are no effigies.

 An   bench pulled up the corporation for terming the effigy-makers encroachers of public land, after it took suo motu cognizance of a TOI report. “Where will they go and where will they make effigies? You (SDMC) give them a place. You cannot throw them out. Can’t you anticipate that artisans will come before Dussehra and make effigies. You permit buildings for rich people and bring enactments for them and you remove these poor people saying they are encroachers. How will Dussehra take place if there are no effigies,” the bench remarked.
 
 It ordered the corporation to immediately restore the effigies and all materials of the artisans and craftsmen confiscated by it and stressed the need for a centralised place where these artisans and craftsmen can make effigies, while listing the matter for hearing on September 25.
 
 During the hearing, advocate Monika Arora, appearing for SDMC, submitted that the agency had received a letter from Delhi Metro Rail Corporation that the artisans have taken over the land and were blocking the main road in west Delhi’s Titarpur. Arora, in a status report, said SDMC seized around 20 effigies as they were “protruding onto the road” and denied destroying the effigies. She assured the court that the effigies will be returned to the owners.
 
 The court made it clear that “nothing gives power to the agencies to destroy their belongings” and directed SDMC, Delhi government to identify a safe spot where artisans and craftsmen can make effigies for Dusshera and could be lodged with proper facilities. 
 
 Ashok Aggarwal, whom HC appointed as local commissioner and had asked to visit the area in Titarpur where the effigies were allegedly destroyed, submitted his report saying it was visible at various places on the footbath that demolition has been carried out resulting in razing of temporary shelters where these artisans were living. Agarwal also infomed the court that loss caused to eight craftmen ranged from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 10,000.
 
 
