NAGPUR: Motorists using   will have to face difficult times in the coming months when   will block a part of the road. The parallel ‘Walkers Road’ alongside Gandhisagar might have been used for smooth movement of traffic. But the stretch, too, has been encroached upon.

 “Encroachment on this road is increasing every day. As the administration is turning a blind eye, sugar cane juice sellers on the road leading to Mahal from T-point of   13 have turned encroachers, posing a traffic hazard to commuters,” said motorists.
 
 In the first half of the day, the sugar cane juice sellers are lined up on the road leading to Mahal. However, they gradually encroach more than half of the road in the afternoon, leaving almost four to five feet of road for motorists to use.
 
 The problem aggravates on Saturdays when second hand market encroaches the entire 200-metre patch in front of Empress Mall. Second hand clothes market in front of east railway station gate further adds to the woes.
 
 “The vendors block a major part of the road and traffic moves at a snail’s pace. No amount of pleading or blaring horns can move them,” said Akash Deshpande, a resident of Mahal. The situation gets worse during peak hours when there is a battle between the potential buyers and those travelling to work or back home.
 
 “People park their vehicles in the middle of the road, which is already encroached upon by the illegal traders. They continue haggling with the vendors, unmindful of the traffic jam they are causing,” complained Dilip Kapse, another motorist who use this road frequently.
 
 The vendors, meanwhile, shared their woes claiming that business is better on this road and they have been doing trades here since last many decades.
 
 “More people buy our merchandize passing by the main road. Moreover, it is within the knowledge of the traffic policemen deployed there that we are selling our goods. We have to pay the police and NMC’s anti-encroachment squad protection money between Rs 200 and Rs 400 a day to put up our business there,” claimed a trader, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Meanwhile,   zone’s assistant municipal commissioner Ganesh Rathod said the department had taken action several times. “We have also asked the ‘ganna’ traders to shift their markets to Kalamna wholesale market,” he claimed.
 
 “Besides this, we had also suggested that the traffic police issues challans to customers who park their vehicles on the road. The problem can be solved only if all the departments act collectively,” he said.
 
