LAMBI (BATHINDA): As you cut through the thick morning fog and drive into  's main market, you are greeted by a large billboard of the one man that religious Sikhs love to hate -Dera Sacha Sauda chief  . It is a film poster of the LAM 'Love Charger's' latest film, 'Lion Heart', showing him riding a horse and with flowing locks of hair.

 Just across the road is the local Gurdwara Dukhniwa ran Sahib with Sikhs moving in and out. 'Premis', as Dera followers are called, and Sikhs mingle freely in the market, sharing jokes and gossip as they wait for Captain   to hold his first rally at a local sports stadium in the heart of Badal country.
 
 People here have moved on from the issues that triggered the maximum resentment against the Badal government in Punjab in late 2015 -the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, pardoning the Dera chief for allegedly dressing up like Guru Gobind Singh in 2007, and the numerous cases of people damaging the Guru Granth Sahib. With chief minister Parkash Singh Badal taking on Amarinder and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh here, Lambi is turning into the mother of all battles for the Punjab assembly. Or as Amarinder prefers to call it, it is the grandfather of all battles with the two of the biggest political leaders of the state facing off against each other.
 
 But the issues that one may encounter elsewhere in Punjab, like joblessness or drugs are conspicuous by their absence here. Lack of development is also non-issue as the Badals have showered the region with goodies with no shortage of good village roads, power supply , gyms and even a classy sports stadium. In fact, the main street of chief minister's home, Badal village, is one of the very few stretches in rural India to be lined with palm trees. They look out of place and make you wonder why you can't see them anywhere else in Bath inda, let alone Punjab.
 
 People will tell you that Badal Sr is the favourite to win even after Amarinder filing his nomination on Wednesday , the last day of filing papers. But a recurring theme is resentment against people who are seen as his close aides and tasked with looking after Lambi. They have been charged with creating hurdles for people when they try to meet Badal for work. The apparent prosperity of some of these aides is also an issue.
 
  village says, “The SADBJP government led by Parkash Singh Badal had been sending money for poor villagers to repair their homes and constructing toilets but I never got the money . Local leaders gave the grants to their near ones and even landlords.“
 
 Ramanpreet Monga, a shopkeeper in Lambi, said, “The government sent money for various purposes for Lambi's residents. We were told that Rs 45,000 have been sanctioned in the name of our three family members but we never got a single penny .“
 
 But many residents have also bought into SAD's campaign that if Amarinder wins, he will stop schemes like subsidized atta-dal and power to Schedule Caste homes and are reluctant to vote for the opposition.
 
 The real challenge for the candidates in Lambi will be to decipher the mind of the voter. In many of the villages of this key constituency that TOI visited, people claimed to be undecided. It's distinctly possible that people here have made up their minds but would prefer to play their cards close to their chests given that no party has forged ahead to take a lead in this, the last leg of the election.
 
