Thanks to Cinderella, countless women have grown up fretting over their feet. If they weren't impossibly small, it was quite likely the girls were unfeminine or unattractive. "I remember trying to squeeze into painfully small shoes as a child only to prove to myself that I had what it took to be desirable," says a 36-year-old in Delhi, who admits her gender identity stems in no small part from the books she read as a child: the Grimm Brothers, The Bobbsey Twins, stories of Hans Christian Andersen, and of course, the Enid Blyton canon. "Growing up in the 80s, it was all the popular culture I consumed," she says. 

 If only Sowmya Rajendran's book was around at the time. Published in 2015 by Tulika, Girls To The Rescue is a redemptive retelling of popular fairy tales, where leading ladies like Snow White, Rapunzel and Sleeping Beauty are non-conformists, their happily-ever-afters not tied in with the prince. "I started composing feminist fairy tales while trying to get my daughter to eat her meals," says Rajendran. By her hand, Cinderella turned into the girl with big feet, whose godmother wanted her to go to the ball, have fun, and not be a homebody. The prince ends up admiring her big feet. 
 
 Despite having turned the tale on its head, though, Rajendran doesn't believe in keeping pop culture away from kids. "My daughter also knows the traditional tale, but enjoys the retelling. With alternative narratives, children will learn to question what they read and see. That took us a long time, I started analysing, interrogating and unlearning only at the undergrad level," says Rajendran, who has also won the   for another book that questioned gender stereotypes. 
 
 Research warns us of how sexist literature can affect children's gender identity, goals, and learned standards for masculine and feminine behaviour. In 1986,   commissioned a study and resource booklet called 'Down with Stereotypes! Eliminating sexism from children's literature and school textbooks', which says: "sexist images and stereotypes have the formidable power of making girls censor their own ambitions and potential, and curb their professional goals".
 Storybook stereotypes become role models: boys are athletic/leaders/scientific; girls are homely/submissive/home-scientific. A girl who bucks the norm, like Enid Blyton's George, was the 'tomboy', the oddball who had a sizeable fanbase of like-minded contrarians, because they had few figures to identify with in the first place. Until now. 
 
 Now, the princess has left the tower, the scullery, the attic, the casket. And she's having a ball not playing second fiddle. The girls and women who inhabit children's literature today are not unlike the people writing and illustrating them; products of their time who won't stand for sexism or other discriminations between the covers. And so, Sangeeta in Scholastic's The Great River Magic loves math and her brother loves to cook. Rajiv Eipe's grandmother in Ammachi's Amazing Machine ( ) wears a tool-belt and makes a mean coconut extracting-machine. Shabnam Minwalla's Nina is The Shy Supergirl (Westland) without the dual identity. Who says a supergirl can't be shy? These books and their individual characters flatten stereotypes.
 
 Publishers and authors abroad have been making up for bigoted books since the '80s and '90s, with feminist works like Princess Smartypants by Babette Cole, Andrea Beaty's Rosie Revere, Engineer, Ian Falconer's Olivia, and many others. And in the last couple of years, Indian writers have also been actively contributing. "It is a conscious attempt to right the balance since boys have formed the default centre for the longest time," says Manisha Chaudhry, head of content at Pratham Books. "Having more active, curious, problem-solving girls is to normalise the portrayal of childhood in a gender-balanced way."
 
 In fact, no progressive Indian publisher today wants to go near a princess if she's simply sitting around, waiting to be saved. A Shy Supergirl, they're happy to have. Minwalla's character is a little girl, appears entirely ordinary, but possesses a secret power and a brave streak. "I wanted to create a superhero who — at least on the outside — is as different from your regular superhero as possible. I created Nina for all those shy little girls out there, who have so much going on in their heads, but are always pushed to the sidelines because they are not obvious stars," says Minwalla, who has three daughters. She says girls often tell her they are like Nina, shy, but brave and determined. "Boys, on the other hand, often protest saying - she can't be a superhero because she is only a GIRL, and that too a skinny girl," recounts Minwalla. "By the end of the book-reading session, though, they are entirely on Nina's side." 
 
 Some boys do fight shy of books with girls in the lead. Payal Kapadia's Puffin title, Wisha Wozzariter, features a 10-year-old author-in-the-making, pictured on a yolk-yellow cover with a pink title — details that are apparently not lost on boys. "I'd read an article about how girls will pick up a book with a boy on the cover, but the reverse is not true," says Kapadia, who won the 2013 Crossword Book Award (Children's Literature) for Wisha. The book found itself in the 'girls section' of a leading bookstore. "It's just a story; it's not a story for girls or for boys," protests Kapadia, incredulous that bookstores are segregated that way. After all, boys too need to know about the all-new girl. 
 
 Children's writing may have turned a page, but marketing and buying behaviour has to keep up. Some kid-lit campaigners like columnist Bijal Vachharajani are doing what they can to spread the word and recommend new, diverse titles for parents and teachers. A few weeks ago, Vachharajani was invited to curate Genderlog's weekly Twitter conversation, and she got the ball rolling on gender and kidlit. "There are some amazing feminist children's books and young adult literature being published in India (and internationally) — of course they are few and far between. But the range is steadily increasing," says Vachharajani. 
 But children, parents and educators often don't get to know about these books. Vachharajani says: "There needs to be more buy-in from mainstream bookstores, e-retail sites and the marketing teams for such books. Otherwise they will continue to be considered 'alternative'. Which these books are not — they are definitely slice-of-life."
 
 Later, I combined the Boy Scout motto with my name for the toilet seat, and devised a motto of my own: "Be prepared, and sit safe!"
 
 It has served me well over the years.
 
