GURUGRAM: Teachers at the Shri Ram   Public School in   are in a quandary over their future prospects after the partnership with the current school management, SRF Foundation, was terminated by Haryana Police.

 Teachers said they have been working loyally at the institution, some for the last six years, since the school was incorporated, and have considered themselves as ‘Shri Educators’, a coinage used to describe teachers at schools run by the foundation.
 
 “I was trained by the foundation and started my career at the Police Public School. When I joined, I was told the school is the group’s latest branch. Till a week back, the principal assured us that rumours of the school shutting down are false, and that the employers will stand by the teachers,” said a teacher on condition of anonymity. He was angry that on the last day of the school year, a member of the school foundation had suddenly told them they will have to go.
 
 According to the teachers, the principal had addressed their concerns saying the teachers must have faith, and if they were feeling insecure, they were free to look for opportunities before closure was announced. But on Saturday, the principal allegedly called a meeting with teachers and told them they will have to serve a two-month notice period under the new management, before they get their relieving letters.
 
 Principal Sudha Santana said she is not authorised to speak on the matter. Instead, she said the questions should be directed at the commissioner of police, who is the school’s nodal officer. Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said the teachers can apply for a fresh round of interviews, which will be conducted by the new management, if they “desire” to continue working with the institution.
 
 Teachers have been scared to speak out openly, because some of them, who are applying for jobs at other Shri Ram branches, feel they won’t be absorbed. Others are scared they will be denied their last month’s salary and termination letters.
 
 When asked about rumours that teachers have to serve another two months, the commissioner said the issue will be resolved as per original terms of  , which the teachers say has no clause on termination of partnership.
 
 “Neither the Shri Ram management, nor police, is accepting us as their employees. Then who is our employer?” said a teacher. She said the contract termination talks must have been going on for a long time, but teachers were kept in the dark, denying them the chance to look for other opportunities.
 
 Another teacher, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the new administration is expected to lower the pay grade drastically, even if they absorb some of them. She said they had been told a teacher’s salary, around Rs 40,000 now, might be cut to half under the new terms.
 
 “The teachers’ kids, who have been receiving discounted education under staff quota, will have to pay thrice the amount to get educated in a similar-level school, or even at other branches of Shri Ram school,” said a teacher.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the SRF Foundation, which managed the school, could not be reached for comment. However, a member of the school’s ‘parents of students association’ confirmed that general category students (ie, not wards of police employees) have already been accommodated in various Shri Ram branches in Delhi and Gurgaon. Teachers, though, complained that if the management was willing to absorb students, they should do the same for teachers as well.
 
 
