MOHALI: On the last day of filing nominations, as many as 26 candidates filed their papers with the returning officers of Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi constituencies. 

 District electoral officer-cum-deputy commissioner   said a total of 53 candidates filed their nominations for assembly elections for all constituencies in district Mohali.
 
 Mangat added that for Mohali assembly constituency, 9 candidates filed their nominations with returning officer-cum-SDM   at the district administrative complex. 
 
 SAD-BJP can bank on minority support
 
 It is evident that Christian and Muslim communities of Mohali assembly constituency has declared their support to SAD-BJP candidate former Mohali deputy commissioner Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu . 
 
 Recently  , who is a member of Wakf Board from Mohali, Fatehgarh and Patiala, extended her support to Sidhu at Nagri village. She that said she was supporting Sidhu because of his clean image and working. She recalled that whenever she visited Sidhu's office when he was the deputy commissioner of Mohali, every time her demands in favour of her community were duly met with. 
 
  said, "It's only due to Sidhu that I will support the SAD-BJP combine. It's time that we think beyond party lines to support a person with clean image rather than supporting someone who has no contribution towards society's welfare." 
 
 Meanwhile, the Christian community of Mohali is also seen coming in support of Sidhu. On the last day of filing nominations, a large number of community members claimed that they were looking for a person with clean image to head Mohali assembly seat rather than following party lines. 
 
 Door-to-door campaign of Cong candidate
 
 Intensifying his election campaign after filing nomination papers, Congress candidate from   carried out a door-to-door campaign in the markets of phases I and IV. 
 
 While urging the shopkeepers to vote and support Congress, Sidhu said, "Your vote for Congress mean you are contributing towards the development of the state in general and your town in particular. Only Congress has the vision to bring back prosperity in state and all around development as well. We have been serving Mohali for long and are well aware of people's problems and demands. The Congress government, if elected, will implement the long pending need-based policy in Mohali on priority basis." 
 
 Sidhu further said that the proposed policy would benefit around 20,000 residents of Mohali, who are putting up in small houses. These residents are demanding implementation of need-based policy so that they can expand their houses. The policy will also benefit small traders who are also facing problem in running their business for want of desired space. They are either running their business from small place available or from the rented accommodation, asserted Sidhu. 
 
 AAP campaigns in villages
 
 AAP party workers with candidate   were seen in the villages failing under Mohali constituency. Shergill said, "Our purpose is to educate illiterate people of the villages about the wrong doings of the SAD-BJP and the Congress." 
 
