 — a discussion that had   and   take the stage at the   was a crowd puller. No surprise there, considering our collective love for cinema one would think. But interestingly enough, there were as many critics of cinema as there were fans. And what ensued was a conversation on the role of literature in cinema, purpose of cinema in our lives, the quality of movies et al. Peppered with humour and some personal anecdotes, if nothing, this was one meaningful conversation. Excerpts. 

 
 
 
  If you are walking out of the film and a small part of the film stays with you and touches you some way, that’s meaningful cinema. If you related to some part of the emotion, one character, one song, one line, it’s given you some meaning. 
 
  If a cinema can chisel a certain perception of yours, like how a good writer does it or how a painter makes you look at things differently, that is 
 cinema with purpose, irrespective of genre. It’s like this — if two people are having a conversation, it shouldn’t just be two people sharing what they know. There should be some experience to that conversation. When talking, some new thought should be born out of that. And a film is like a conversation between audience and filmmakers, that’s when some experience occurs and that’s meaningful cinema and going towards that should be the goal for filmmakers. 
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, literature used to sow the seeds for cinema. Now there is no literary base for movies. But these days many of our movie makers themselves do not read. This is not the case with Tamil, Malayalam or even Kannada movies for that matter. When I was in school, I mostly read English books, but I had friends who read and spoke about Telugu writers. So I knew about Telugu literature and readers. If I talk to 24-year-olds now, I can see that their mind space is filled with content from cinemas and series on Netflix. If you don’t read and you want to make films tomorrow, the content will reflect what you have consumed. That’s where the thoughts are coming from. 
 
 I do agree that the quality cinema is eroding, so are your eating habits, so are your dressing habits... erosion is a national disease or an international disease right now. In the end, cinema, like any art form, is like a mirror — it only reflects what’s already in you. We are not doing favours here, we are not preachers, everybody has a right to make a film, express their way of looking at life, some may titillate, some may use humour, some may use violence. If   garu,   and other big stars, if they put Ayyappa mala, will all of you put it? No, right? You will always take what you want to take.
 
 
 
 
 There are some characters that stay with you even long after a movie has come and gone. Prakash Raj’s character, Narasimha from the movie Antahpuram is one of my favourite characters. I worked as the assistant director for the film and I can never forget the fierce look in his eyes during the emotionally charged scenes in the film. I was 23 or 24 at that time. Later, when I was working on the Hindi-remake of the film, I kept missing Prakash Raj. I would watch   (who played Prakash’s role) wistfully and think of how Prakash Raj essayed that role (laughs). Creating characters like that takes a lot of skill. 
 
  I come from the electricity department. I switch on and switch off immediately from roles (laughs). I have enough maturity to not to get lost in the characters that I am playing. After Antahpuram, I started working for Samudram, in which I played a simple constable. Even though I had moved on from the character I played in my previous film, I could see that the crew of Samudram were still hungover on my Antahpuram avatar. That can be very problematic for a performer. I almost quit the film because I could see that they didn’t believe the character I was playing wasn’t me. It becomes very difficult to focus. Take the case of my driver today, for example. When taking the car out in the morning, he hit the bumper of another car. When I asked him ‘what’s wrong with you?’, he told me, ‘When I see you I get nervous’. (laughs)...
 
 
 
 
  We need a new crop of writers who can tell meaningful stories that can convey real emotions through cinema. Only when that happens, can we hope to have real meaningful cinema. For that to happen a change in the collective mindset is needed. 
 
  Yes, what filmmakers need to do is look at cinema as more than just a business. But then, the audience also needs to step up and play a role too. I am losing money but I am still trying to make good movies (like Ullavachaaru Biryani). Even my next film, Sila Samayangalil, (that was screened at HLF), will not run in the theatres, I can assure you. (audience laughs). When you know, there is a good film playing in theatres, at least a few of us need to make it a point to go and catch it early. If you don’t, it will be gone. This is the kind of movement we need. For, a lot of them are small budget films, and they need traction to become successful. 
 
