Kolkata: For consumers, the bitter pills they take to get out of that niggling cold or bring down the blood pressure will now taste a shade more pungent. For retailers, it may mean battling with hypertension till at least September as they try to explain to buyers why the same shop is selling the same medicine at two different prices. This, say chemists, is the takeaway from the retail medicine sector as the first fortnight of the new tax regime comes to an end.

 The first batch of GST-priced drugs has started reaching medicine stores, giving   an idea of how much more or less it has to pay. And, in case of   that are most commonly used by a family, the fresh stock — priced under the new tax regime — is costing a little more because the vast majority of drugs has been put in the 12% tax bracket.
 
 Buyers are yet to feel the pinch as a very small volume of fresh stocks have reached the stores, say chemists, but you will soon come to understand that your medical bills will go up marginally. For retailers, however, the pain is a little different: having to deal with a dual-pricing system because of the presence of both old and new stocks and having to explain to buyers the reasons for the dual pricing.
 
 “This has become a worry for us. Customers are asking for the new stock of drugs but, unfortunately, only a few are available. We are also left with a huge volume of old stock th-at we must sell off. This confusion could prevail till September, by when we hope to be able to get rid of all old medicines and stop having to explain to every consumer why the same drug costs different,” said Sudip Basu, owner of Suraj Pharma in Thakurpukur, one of the handful of stores that have received fresh stocks.
 
 Nothing, however, has changed across the vast majority of medicine outlets across Kolkata, except their billing pattern. Left with a huge volume of old stock, they have merely altered the tax component in their bills but are sticking to the old price or the existing  . A large section of buyers, however, are paying a little more since discounts have been withdrawn. They are being advised to stock as much as possible before prices spiral.
 
 “Even though the price difference is marginal for individual drugs, it could be a substantial rise for those who have to spend more than Rs 2000 on medicines every month. With the discount withdrawn, spend on drugs will now rise,” said Ramkrishna Jana, owner of Ramkrishna Pharmacy.
 
 It could take a month for new stocks to replace the old ones, claimed Sadhan Ghosh, general secretary, Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association. “Around 8-10 manufacturers are ready with fresh supplies and a new price list. Another 30 could join them by the end of this week. So, we are expecting a major spurt in new supplies soon and once that happens, fresh stocks at   prices will be available. Till then, we have instructed retailers to stick to the existing prices. They have also been asked to lower their profit margins to accommodate the new tax structure, if necessary,” said Ghosh.
 
 He added that fresh stocks will now be sold at a slightly higher price than the existing one. “We can’t help the dual pricing, though this is confusing,” he said. Retailers alleged that there was no clarity yet on the GST tax structure and whether fresh medicines with the altered MRP will arrive soon. “We hear that a few stores have started receiving drugs with the new price tag. But so far, none of our suppliers have access to fresh stocks. In case they start coming in soon, what are we supposed to do with the existing medicines? Are we going to continue selling them at the existing price, or charge the enhanced GST?” asked Sanjay Majumdar, owner of The Pharmacy at New Alipore.
 
 Some of the drugs with GST MRPs to have hit the market on Thursday include Vitazym, Ganaton, Ascoril and Phyronorm. But some retailers, including one in the Lake Market area, have chosen the to absorb the price rise. “We are sticking to the existing price by offering a marginal discount. It doesn’t affect us since the difference in the profit is a minor one. In fact, once things settle down, we would like to switch back to the old 10% discount,” said the owner.
 
 
