PUNE: Refusal to ply and overcharging continue to be most common grouses against autorickshaw drivers, say commuters regularly hailing three-wheelers to move around the city.

 However, the number of autorickshaw drivers penalized by the traffic police in 2016 is significantly lower than the tally of the previous year. The number of those caught operating without uniform and badges has also been less last year as compared to 2015.
 
 Officials attribute the drop in numbers to less people coming forward to register complaints.
 
 Challenges in hailing a ride, however, remain the biggest complaint of citizens who say the problem is acute when heading towards the fringes or newly developed pockets of the city, and even the airport. Not only do autorickshaw drivers refuse but even demand fare more than the meter as ‘return fare’ to cover for lack of passengers while coming back on that route.
 
 Debika Mitra, who regularly commutes through the city in autorickshaws, expressed her anguish over autorickshaw drivers openly flouting rules by refusing to ply.
 
 “Timing and location seems to be an issue with the autorickshaw drivers. If I’m returning a little late, they often ask for extra money. They generally refuse to ply if it’s late and when they are not headed in the direction I want to go. In one recent case, I had to go to the airport in the afternoon from   and the autorickshaw driver outright asked for half return fare as he claimed he won’t get passengers from the airport. It’s true that I have never complained officially, but that’s because I have either been at a very far off location, or it’s very late in the evening or I am in a hurry,” she said.
 
 Another commuter, Smriti Borkar said, “I stay near the end of   and it’s very difficult to get an autorickshaw while returning home, especially in the evening. I have to ask at least five before one driver agrees to go but almost always I am asked to pay extra fare to the tune of Rs 20 or Rs 30. I sometimes feel like complaining, but then forget if I don’t spot a traffic cop nearby, or just don’t note down the vehicle registration number”.
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Pradeep Bhalerao, secretary of the  , said, “We tell our union members to not refuse any journey. However, for rides out of the PMC limits, we deserve at least 25% extra return fare as it is difficult to get a customer for return journeys and we have to return all the way back to the heart of the city. We also wish that the cost incurred by our people in purchasing uniforms can be included in the base fare. In case any commuter complains, we do face action from the Regional Transport office, including suspension of our licence and even a fine”.
 
 It’s wrong to refuse a ride, admitted Nitin Pawar, convener of the city’s Rickshaw Panchayat. “We always tell our fellow drivers that they are in the business for work, so they should not refuse any ride. Even turning up without uniform or badge is wrong and is totally not acceptable for the registered drivers. We are in talks to devise a system which would display the availability of the autorickshaws for journeys. For example, a tubelight glowing on top of a vehicle would indicate the willingness of the driver to ride. This will reduce the problems people face. The traffic police too should stop taking action against autorickshaw drivers as a way to put more money in government coffers,” he said.
 
 Commuters must always complain against autorickshaw drivers that refuse to ply, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   advised, while conceding to the rampant problem of commuter harassment by autorickshaw drivers.
 
 Speaking about traffic police’s action against public transport drivers like those of buses and autorickshaws, DCP Baravkar said, “We are going after all kinds of erring drivers, including those not wearing uniforms or not displaying their work badges, while on duty. However, while there is so much regular public outcry against the autorickshaw drivers refusing to ferry passengers on certain routes, the fact is we get very few complaints”.
 
 Record of challans issued by the traffic police too reveals a downward spiral in the number of auto-rickshaw drivers penalized for refusing to ply. While more than 2,800 were pulled up for traffic offence in 2015, the total number of those caught and punished in 2016 is a dismal 1,822 for the entire year. Only 15 autorickshaw drivers were penalized in 2016 for charging excess fare, down from the total of 48 in 2015, records of the traffic police reveal.
 
 DCP Baravkar urged commuters to call on the traffic police control room or even take a picture of the vehicle and share details on the Facebook page and Twitter handle of Pune Traffic Police.
 
