Tabu, who first shared screen space with Ajay Devgn in the 1994 action-drama, 'Vijaypath', is all set to collaborate with her long-time friend again. Mirror has learnt that the actress has been approached to play a prominent part in an upcoming Ajay starrer -a contemporary romcom written and produced by Luv Ranjan, who has previously helmed the comedy franchise 'Pyaar Ka Punchnama', and the emotional love-story, 'AkaashVaani'. The yet-to-betitled film will be produced by Luv and his business partner Ankur Garg and marks the directorial debut of Akiv Ali, the award-winning film editor of 'Gangster', 'Kites', 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani', 'Barfi!', 'Once Upon A Time in Mumbaai', 'Agneepath' and the upcoming Anurag Basu-directorial, 'Jagga Jasoos'. Expected to roll by the year-end, it is a quirky take on urban relationships with the two-time National Award winners and Padma Shree awardees in pivotal roles.

  
  
 A source close to the film confirmed that   has given her nod to the project and is looking forward to playing a character that showcases her in a completely different light. "It's a unique romcom and not a love triangle. Ajay and Tabu are not opposite each other and Luv has written the role with Tabu in mind, believing that only she can play the part. Another A-list actress will be cast as Ajay's love interest," the source added, informing that there has been no reading or narration yet because the actors are in Goa filming 'Golmaal Again', the fourth instalment of  's hit franchise.
 
 In an interview to Mirror (June 15, 2015), before the release of Nishikant Kamat's 'Drishyam', Tabu had said, "Ajay and I grew up together. He was my brother's buddy and every evening he'd drive up in his open jeep while we sat waiting on the bungalow wall. The camaraderie is the same even today. He's crazy fun and all heart. With Ajay around, it is always a picnic."
 
 HIT FOR A SIX!
 
 'Vijaypath' (1994)
 
 Originally meant for Divya Bharti, the role of Ajay Devgn's leading lady went to Tabu, who won the Filmfare Award (Best Debut) as the duo danced to “Ruk Ruk Ruk...“
 
 'Haqeeqat' (1995)
 
 Directed by Sandesh Kohli, this one had Tabu as a widow in distress who is rescued by Ajay's good samaritan.
 
 'Thakshak' (1999)
 
 This action-drama, written and directed by Govind Nihalani, was a poetic romance set against the Mumbai cityscape.
 
 'Drishyam' (2015)
 
 In the remake of Jeetu Joseph's acclaimed Malayalam film featuring Mohanlal, Ajay played a cable TV service provider who faces off with Tabu's Inspector General Meera Deshmukh after her son who was last spotted in his home, goes missing.
 
 'Fitoor' (2016)
 
 In Abhishek Kapoor's Hindi adaptation of Great Expectations, Tabu played Begum Hazrat Jaan, a desi Miss Havisham with Ajay Devgn in a special appearance as Moazam (Pip's secret benefactor, the escaped convict Abel Magwitch). The two did not have any scenes together.
 
 'Golmaal Again' (2017)
 
 The fourth instalment of the Golmaal franchise sees Tabu and   join the regulars, Ajay,  ,   and  . The unit is filming in Goa.
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
