BHUBANESWAR: As the capital city turned into a fortress ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visit starting Saturday, the   resemble the annual Puri Rath Yatra bandobust. 

 It will be a testing time for the police as Modi apart, at least 100 other BJP dignitaries, including 13 chief ministers, are scheduled to attend the party's national executive committee meeting at  . 
 
 "The way we have prepared the security arrangements for the BJP's national executive meeting, it is nothing less than Rath Yatra preparations. During Rath Yatra, we deploy around 4,000 police personnel in Puri. For the security and traffic management on April 15 and 16, we will mobilise at least 3,000 cops," said a senior police officer.
 
 Police said Modi's security is being looked after by the special protection group whereas Z-plus security arrangements will be made for the 13 chief ministers. Union home minister Rajnath Singh's security will be supervised by the national security guard, police sources said. 
 
 On Thursday, DGP   and police commissioner Y B Khurania oversaw the security drill and rehearsal of the movement of Modi's convoy along airport-Raj Bhawan-Janata Maidan route. 
 
 According to security protocol, the airport area will be made no-flying zone for nearly one hour before the landing of PM's flight. The PM is scheduled to arrive at the airport at 3.30pm. 
 
 "We have made adequate security arrangements for the smooth conduct of the two-day meeting," Singh told TOI. Police will block the traffic along airport-AG Square-Janata Maidan during Modi's movement. 
 
 Singh said total 100 platoons of police force and two   of central reserve police force will be mobilised during the two days. Four inspector-general ranked officers and 15 SP-ranked officers will monitor security arrangements. 
 
 Starting from the airport, Raj Bhawan to Janata Maidan, the entire route has been divided into five sectors from the security point of view. Several police officers from other districts have been mobilised for Bhubaneswar meet. 
 
 The DGP informed that the PM and his cavalcade of 23 vehicles will head towards the Raj Bhawan from airport. Later on, he will start for the BJP national executive meeting venue at Janata Maidan. Modi is scheduled to visit   temple at 9am on April 17 and spend at least 10 minutes there. 
 
