PATNA: Dreams of a   will soon be realized as the state government has sanctioned Rs10. 76 crore to Bihar Infrastructure Department Authority for acquiring 20 acre land close to the   in Nalanda district. The film city was proposed in 2015 to promote regional cinema. 

  said the strategic location on the famous Buddhist circuit is near the world’s highest peace pagoda, Vishwa Shanti Stupa. 
 
 The state government has focused attention on the growing Bhojpuri, Magahi, Angika, Maithli and Vajjika film industry, which is said to have a combined annual investment of almost Rs2,500 crore.
 
 Sources said more than 100 regional films are released every year in Bihar and shooting of over 60 % of them are done in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Hyderabad and Uttar Pradesh. States like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, with major film industries, have their own film cities. “A state sponsored film city will not only be a major source of revenue, but it will also create employment avenues, especially in tourism and hospitality sectors,” said a source.
 
 The film city is set to house an integrated film studio complex where pre and post production processing facilities will be provided. Custom hiring centres inside the film city will provide expensive, state-of-the-art equipment to the filmmakers. A captive power generating set, solar power and biogas plants will be established inside the premises to encourage biodegradable power generation.
 
 Senior officials in art and culture department said the BSFDFC has submitted its final report to the state cabinet for approval. 
 
 Filmstar and BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha had submitted a   (DPR) in 2007-08 to set up a mega film city, following Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad. Celebrated actors like Manoj Bajpai, Ravi Kishan, Manoj Tiwari and filmmaker Prakash Jha have also demanded a film city in the state in the past.
 
 As a step to encourage quality filmmaking, Bihar government, in its 2016 Film Policy, declared Rs10 lakh award to regional filmmakers with ventures selected in national and international film festivals. The construction of the film city will greatly encourage regional film production and also allow provisions to set up a film institute in the future to train cinema artists and technicians.
 
