KOLKATA: In a first, not only in Bengal, but in India as well, the   was given its own establishment to start work from on Friday. It will function as a wing of the women and child development and social welfare department. 

 While the Board was formed in July 2015, the state took a year-and-a-half to allot office space and staff. The Supreme Court has ordered each state to set up an independent board to voice the cause and concerns of transgenders. While some states have set up bodies for the welfare of the community, Bengal is the first to start a board that would look at the development and empowerment of the community, not just welfare.
 
 The office has been set up on the ground floor of the Jalsampad Bhawan. An official of the rank of deputy director and government employed staff have also been allotted to assist in the day-to-day working of the board. On Friday, the office was handed over to prominent members of the board, which is being headed by Shashi Panja, minister of the department who will act as its chairman. However, for all practical purposes, the developmental work will be done by the other members, led by vice-chairperson Manabi Bandyopadhyay, who is also the principal of  .
 
 Other members of the board like Anindya Dutta, a chartered accountant, and Ranjita Sinha, who runs an NGO, all prominent members of the community, were present as the new office was handed over by the state. “This is definitely a start. Ever since the board was formed, transgenders had a lot of expectations from the state. They thought there will now be government sanction behind a body that has been formed to address their grievances. However, in the absence of an office, we were not being able to function as a team,” Manabi said.
 
 The latest edition of Abomanob, the country’s only   magazine which is being edited for the past 21 years by Manabi, was also released on Friday at the little magazine fair being held at  . This time the magazine has celebrated transgender persons who have made it big in their lives. 
 
 
