PUNE: Vehicle riders and housing societies in the city can expect availiblity of compressed natural gas (CNG) within close proximity of their residence.

 CNG supplier   (MNGL) has chalked out an   for the year to start more   and widen the reach of piped gas connections at housing societies across Pune and  .
 
 As part of expansion plan, MNGL has approached the   (PMC) seeking vacant spaces in eight areas to set up refilling units. It is also exploring options to hire more than 20 to 25 plots of private land to set up refilling stations. By the end of 2017, the company plans to take up the number of CNG pumps beyond 50.
 
 The MNGL in last 12 months have commenced almost 18 refilling stations.At present 42 pumps are in function in and around Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.By March, 3 more pumps will be started.
 
 Besides public utility vehicles like autorickshaws and PMPML buses, a significant numbers of private cars have adopted CNG kits in the last couple of years.Officials in MNGL said that numbers of vehicles on CNG are growing every year. There is a need to have at least 60 to 70 pumps in Pune and Pimpri Chinchawad to cater demand. MNGL has been working to meet these expectations, officials said. A M Tambekar, MNGL's managing director said that the company has initiated a survey in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to identify the areas to set up CNG stations. “The survey will get over in a few days. Based on the findings we will publish an advertisement seeking private plots in both cities for CNG units. A similar exercise was carried out in 2015 when the company had received good response,“ Tambekar said.
 
 Officials said the reach of PNG, which was limited to a few areas, has been increased to many parts in the last one year. Piped gas is available now in almost all fringe areas and suburbs.Housing societies can approach MNGL for the connections, they said.
 
 Meanwhile, officials said that proposal has been put forth to provide existing spaces of   centres for CNG refilling units. This is because of use of LPG in vehicles has dropped significantly in last few years.
 
 
