THANE: As many as seven nominations have been received collectively for the elections of the   mayor and deputy to be held on Monday.

 While Sena, BJP and NCP have nominated a candidate each for both posts,   is in the fray for the post of deputy mayor only. The power seat has been reserved for a woman from the open category this time.
 
 The nominations include Meenakshi Shinde from the   and Ramakant Madhvi from Diva from the Shiv Sena while the BJP has chosen   and Mukesh Mokashi for the same. Vikrant Chavan, who managed to save face for the party by retaining the seat and adding numbers to the Congress. has filed for the post of deputy mayor while the NCP has fielded Ashreen Raut and Arati Gaikwad for the posts. 
 
 Officials said the selection of the mayor would be done by an open voting system on Monday wherein those supporting a specific candidate will raise their hands after their names will be announced. The count of votes will be noted and also videotaped. The one who gets the highest votes will get to ascend the power seat this time.
 
 It is being discussed that Meenakshi Shinde seems to be the likely contender for the post as her party has an upper hand in the election results this time with nearly 66 votes from her partymen to fall in her support. Shinde is known to be a veteran corporator with several years of experience in the house and is also known to share an amiable equation with colleagues from other parties who could easily help her pave way for ascending the coveted seat.
 
 Another possibility doing the rounds is about few Sena leaders being upset as their recommendations were denied an opportunity for the top post and could possibly play a spoiler on Monday by staying absent from the voting. 
 
 The situation could easily derail for the Sena in case the BJP tacitly supports NCP and Congress to bag the mayor's seat managing nearly 58 votes which could end up as a majority considering that few Sena leaders could fail to turn up for the voting. 
 
 “The BJP emerges as the clear winner in either cases and can claim the post of the deputy considering its increased seat strength in the house this time around,” said a political observer.
 
