SRINAGAR: A day after the   chief, General Bipin Rawat, warned stonepelters who try to disrupt anti-terror operations in Jammu & Kashmir saying they could be fired on, the state government on Thursday issued an advisory asking people to stay away from encounter sites. 

 There has been an increasing trend of mobs trying to prevent security forces from cornering terrorists during counter-insurgency operations in J&K and in some instances, this has helped militants escape the security dragnet, while causing high casualties among the forces. 
 
 The J&K government order said people have been requested not to move towards or assemble near the places where encounters take place between security forces and militants in the interest of their own safety. “This way, injuries or loss of precious human lives can be avoided,” the statement said. 
 
 But the political class was divided over the Army chief ’s approach of equating stone pelters with jihadis. While national parties like the BJP and Congress supported the Army chief, the main opposition party,  , as well as the separatists, objected to General Rawat’s warning. 
 
 The NC said it was dismayed over what it called “belligerent remarks” of the Army chief about dealing mercilessly with the isolated and alienated youth of Kashmir, and said such posturing would compound the situation and increase hostility in the valley. NC spokesperson Junaid Azim Mattu said it was sad that New Delhi was still trying to talk to the youth of Kashmir through the defence establishment when the need was to engage them politically. “Even after the mayhem and bloodshed of 2016, if New Delhi still thinks threatening the youth will help – it’s a tragic delusion,” Mattu added. 
 
 Hurriyat separatist   said it showed General Rawat was ignorant of ground realities in Kashmir. Kashmiri youth, he said, had not taken to arms or to the streets “for fun”. They were fighting for a just cause: Kashmir’s freedom. The PDP, which is in coalition with the BJP, took a cautious stand. “This is not a state subject and the Army chief ’s statement does not require any comments from the PDP,” said party official Nizamuddin Bhat. Deputy CM Nirmal Singh, who is from the BJP, told TOI that it was an imperative for the security forces to to protect the sovereignty of the country
 
