A tectonic shift of worldview is on the anvil. Polarization is the word of the day. While one section of the world is rejoicing at the prospect of walls being built and empathy being squashed, another is livid at the prospects of a world that is all set to sever natural human ties and degrade its women. The women’s march, in protest of the inauguration of the United States’ 45th president  , spread itself like fire around the globe.  , Atlanta,  , Los Angeles, and cities in UK… women from all over joined hands to raise their voices against the   administration. Now, whether or not the protest will have any effect on the capitol, is up for debate. But what is clear is that when human beings come together, defying all differentiators, the result is a vibrant mix of ideas, creativity and innovation. Yes, the protests across   saw the likes of Madonna, Emma Watson, Alicia Keys and Ashley Judd lend their vital support. But what was truly remarkable was the extraordinary bonhomie of ordinary pink-hatted self-proclaimed ‘nasty women’, who chose not to mince words. Honest, brazen and absolutely unstoppable, this army of women, separated by borders but united in their concerns, made Jan 21 of 2017 a day that will be remembered for some time to come. As Sucheta Ghoshal, a PhD student at Georgia, who walked the   march said, “63,000 people walking together in Atlanta, standing up, chanting slogans for women's rights, immigrant rights, racial injustice, LGBTQIA rights and all the other issues that are at stake, is not magic.This is as real as organized resistance gets.” 

  
  What have we got here? Is it dump… err.. Trump?
 
  
  An umbrella big enough for the entire world.
 
  
  Just. Don’t.
 
  
  This Emma Watson-lookalike definitely knows what God intended for her. 
 
  
  You think Donald copied Bane’s dialogues in his inaugural speech? Batman seem sto think so too. And he is having none of it. 
 
  
  Facepalm. In all colours.
 
  
  
  
  We may not talk the talk, but we definitely walk the walk!
 
 
  
  Oh, that’s just peachy. Or not. 
 
  
  And it bites too, if need be.
 
  
  This young man knows exactly what he wants to be when he grows up. 
 
  
  And this little girl knows that not everybody can do things ‘like a girl’. 
 
  
  “Let me sit down for a moment and cradle my head in my arms and cry and never get back up again!” Probably, Liberty, right now. 
 
  
  And pink is power.
 
  
  Just a basic lesson in biology.
 
  
  A figurine of Donald Trump wearing a pink pussyhat at the protest. It’s a long shot, we know, but we can’t help marvel at how much good donning the hat of feminism will do him!
 
  
  That’s some pro-level photoshop lip-job, though!
 
  
  And lastly…
 
