MUMBAI: Apart from the flair and grace with which they play their football, it's the smiles on the faces and their jovial nature which makes the Brazilians so loved. Be it the flamboyance of Neymar, deft touches of Ronaldinho or the sublime finishing skills of Ronaldo, the samba boys have always been a delight to watch. And that's not even including the likes of Pele, Zico, Socrates and a host of other greats.

 The lads from   who are in the country to play the   starting October 6 may have been only two years old when Brazil last won the World Cup in 2002, but they're not very far behind as far as flamboyance is concerned. If their evening training session at the Mumbai Football Arena on Tuesday is anything to go by , the lads definitely have the skill and dedication, and more importantly , the fun-loving nature.
 
 As warm-up, the boys didn't jog or undergo intense training drills like short sprints. Instead they played the game `man in the middle' or in their case, `three men in the middle'. The rules of the game are pretty simple: the team forms a circle and passes the ball around without allowing the person in the centre to touch the ball.
 
 The game is the perfect plat form for the lads to show off their skills, and show off they did. Tricks such as stepovers, elasticos and the roulette were on full display. They were simply enjoying themselves. The hearty laughs were reserved for the trio in the center who had to do push-ups as punishment for failing to intercept ten passes.
 
 With the warm-up done, it was time to play a match. Their coach   asked his boys to practise match-like situations, but only using half the pitch. Just like the warmup, the boys exhibited their skills during the match. Highly-rated striker   was the star of the show, comfortably executing the Cruyff Turn on three occasions. Though their gameplay was compact, it didn't lack any style and it certainly didn't lack any pace.Each player took a maximum of four seconds on the ball before passing.
 
 They didn't focus too much on the front line though. Perhaps that was reserved for their star man  . The striker, who has signed a 45 million euro transfer deal with European giants   that is effective from July 2018 when he turns 18, will join the team on Saturday. Fans in Mumbai will sadly not get to see him in action as Brazil's second friendly on September 30 has been cancelled.
 
 After the match, the coach asked the boys to practise spot kicks. Each player was given three kicks as the three goalkeepers switched every time they conceded. The strikers had eccentric run-ups, and rarely gave the goalkeepers a chance to stand in goal for more than one shot.
 
 Despite stopping for drinks every 20 minutes during their two-hour training session, the lads didn't really look tired.Mind you, their training session was held just eight hours after landing in the city. Brazil have won the U-17 World Cup on three occasions and are favourites going into the tournament. But they face a tough test at the start -their opening Group D match is against European U-17 champs Spain. The Spaniards have been in excellent form of late and Brazil will want the best possible start by beating them. Niger and Korea DPR complete the group whose home venue is Kochi.
 
 It's one of the toughest groups of the tournament, but the South American giants are leaving no stone unturned. To know how serious they are, just look at the number of people they have as support staff.Their 17-member entourage includes a fitness coach, a doctor, a physiologist, a chef and two physiotherapists.
 
 To say that they are prepared is an understatement.
 
 
