HYDERABAD: In a new order aimed at curbing smuggling of unclaimed bodies, the state government has asked the   (GHMC) to cremate bodies lying in mortuaries for more than a month. This order is an amendment to a previous GO issued on January 23. The government said officials have to take permission from the assistant medical officer of health to cremate any body.

 Such bodies are sent to government hospitals under section 174 of the CrPC, following the receipt of a complaint and FIR from the police department. 
 
 The order comes as a blow to the Satya Harishchandra Foundation (SHF), who were solely responsible for disposing off unidentified or unclaimed bodies. It will be now left to the discretion of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to get them cremated. 
 
 GHMC officials believe this would curb the menace of smuggling bodies from the two government mortuaries at -   and   - to many private colleges for medical research at a price. 
 
 However, members of the SHF claim that this decision has been taken to keep the   away from handling bodies. They also alleged that this move would turn the city into a lucrative market for cadavers. “We have been saying it time and again that there are some private medical colleges which shell out as much as Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh for a cadaver for their academic ventures. Now if the GHMC wants to take over, it would mean the end of accountability,” said Dr Rajeshwar Rao, founder and secretary of the Satya Harishchandra Foundation. 
 
 He further alleged that if the government implements this order, the attendants of the GHMC would show 60 bodies as 10 bodies and sell the difference to private medical colleges to make money. As per the rules, the officials are supposed to videograph, photograph, jot down the identification marks on the cadavers and finally tag them. “Every month there are 62 bodies that go missing in these mortuaries. If the GHMC takes over, we can expect the number to catapult to hundreds,” he added. 
 
 The high court had earlier dismissed a writ petition filed by the foundation on January 23 this year. 
 
 
