Controversy seems to have found Manveer Gurjar’s address on the first day of his life as a celebrity. On the day the   reached his hometown Noida after winning the reality show, a video and some pictures of his alleged secret wedding started doing the rounds on social media. Several reports quoted sources saying that contrary to what he had claimed on Bigg Boss, Manveer has been married for a few years and even has a daughter. While Manveer has denied the rumours, some of his family members say that he is indeed married, and that even the makers of the show and Salman Khan were aware of it.
 
  In a video posted on YouTube two days ago, Manveer can be seen dressed like a groom in a white sherwani and a red pagdi. The video shows him with his mother Mala Devi before the ghudchadhi ceremony, and the song Chhote Chhote Bhaiyon Ke Bade Bhaiyya can be heard in the background. Some pictures of his ‘wife’ have also been shared on Twitter.
  
  Calling the controversy a needless publicity gimmick, Manveer says, “I am not married. Shaadi jaisi cheez aise chhup nahi sakti. I have been in the   house since October. Agar yeh sach hota toh ab tak kisi ne toh issue raise kiya hi hota. This has just been done by someone for cheap publicity.”
  
  Despite Manveer’s insistence that he has never been married, some of his own relatives have said that not only is he married, but the fact was known to most people in the Bigg Boss House, including the host, Salman Khan. Manveer’s maternal uncle Karan Singh Nagar says, “He was married three years ago. He also has a one-and-a-half-year-old daughter named Aashi. He never hid the fact on the show. He had shared it with Nitibha, who was trying to get close to him as well as with Lopamudra and Manu Punjabi. Even Salman bhai was told about it. There were too many intelligent people there. How did a common man rise amid them?” Suresh, who is married to Manveer’s cousin, says that the marriage was hidden from the public eye for a reason. “If he had gone public about his marriage, would so many girls have voted for him?” she asks.
  
  
 
  
  Manveer’s brother Sachin calls the entire episode a ploy to malign Manveer’s image. He tells us, “Manveer has the image of a grounded and humble person. Throughout the show, he has been like that. He has been in the public eye for four months now. If he was married, why did nobody come and claim that till now? Doing this now when he has won and is being loved by all means it’s just someone who is jealous of his achievement. They are just trying to malign him for some cheap publicity.” Responding to his own relatives’ claims about Manveer’s wedding, Sachin says, “I don’t know why they have said all this. Manveer and I will speak to them about this. Maybe they were confused. We will need to see what exactly they said and then talk to them about it. The fact remains that the claims are false.”
  
  
 
  
  
 
