MUMBAI: Some international cities charge a fine of $1,000 for  . Mumbai charges as little as Rs 200 for the same offence. Yet, it has managed to collect more than Rs 8.2 crore in penalties from pedestrians and motorists within a year of enlisting ‘clean-up marshals’ to rid the metropolis’s streets of cigarette butts, spit, rubbish and plastic bags.

 This month, the   marks the first anniversary of the relaunch of the ambitious initiative to instil civic sense in its denizens. With over five lakh people fined so far, more than a million warnings issued and crores earned in penalties, is Mumbai any closer to the dream of a ‘clean city’?
 
 No, say a number of activists, who find the roads and pavements as shabby as ever. While it may be a deterrent, does it spread awareness about the importance of keeping the city clean, is their question.
 
 Yes, says officials, who point to the dustbins kept by most food vendors and the near-absence of trash on well-known streets and near popular landmarks. Apart from the fines imposed, the marshals ‘warn’ almost one lakh people on an average every month (see table) to discourage them from throwing waste.
 
 The ‘clean-up’ scheme was relaunched on July 1 last year and currently has 720 personnel patrolling high-footfall areas such as entry and exit points of railway stations, bus stops, museums, shopping districts and tourist hubs like Marine Drive.
 
 Activist Raj Kumar Sharma, president of the Diamond Garden Residents’ Forum in Chembur, said, “If these   really made a difference to the city then Mumbai's rank in the   2017 would not have dropped from 10 last year to 29 this year.” Sharma’s grouse is that BMC has not made adequate arrangements to dispose of garbage. “While travelling anywhere in Mumbai one would realize that there aren’t enough dustbins everywhere, owing to which people end up littering the streets,” Sharma said. 
 
 Khar activist Anandini Thakoor said she too is yet to notice a visible change in cleanliness levels in the city. “The marshals are more keen on penalising people and meeting targets,” said Thakoor.
 
 Indeed, clean-up marshals are given a minimum target of five penalties a day and get paid in addition based on the fines they collect. 
 
 However, many marshals say theirs is a challenging job. “Nobody likes to be penalized. Try talking to a person you do not know and tell them they need to pay a penalty. They start behaving rudely,” said a marshal outside Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj museum in south Mumbai. Most people who get penalized in the area are tourists, he added. 
 
 Amit Singh, another marshal stationed outside CST, said the most common offence is throwing cigarette stubs on the road. “Sometimes, they create a scene and this attracts the attention of other passers-by. Once a crowd gathers they even try to intimidate us,” said Singh. 
 
 TOI spoke to a person whom a marshal had fined for throwing a stub outside Dadar railway station. He said being fined was a deterrent and he would look for a bin the next time. “It’s difficult to go and search for a bin all the time but then one can’t keep paying fines,” he said. 
 
 Dadar-based activist Ashok Ravat said the scheme has not made a marked difference except swelling BMC’s coffers. “Ideally these marshals should be given a target to ensure that a particular lane, area or locality remains clean through patrolling instead of being asked to penalise a certain number of persons,” he said . 
 
 But senior officials in the BMC chose to differ. They said the scheme has definitely increased awareness. “We have noticed an improvement in people’s habits since the scheme was started last year. We are also posting these marshals near nullahs and open defecation spots to keep those places clean. However, the job is not complete and we are making more efforts to keep the city clean,” said Vijay Balamwar, deputy municipal commissioner-solid waste management. 
 
 The contract of the clean-up marshals was to end in June, but it’s learnt that the BMC has extended it for one more year.
 
 
