NAGPUR: The Nagpur city traffic police has red-flagged the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s list of hawking zones. Despite raising objections, the traffic police claimed, the NMC earmarked hawkers’ zones even on footpaths and narrow roads. 

 Confirming this, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said declaring hawking zones at areas like Rani Jhansi Chowk on North Ambazari road,   will only worsen the prevailing congestion. “We stand by our objections raised regarding 42 of the 51 hawking zones declared by NMC’s  ,” the DCP said. 
 
 The Committee was headed by municipal commissioner   and had representatives from Nagpur city traffic police, hawkers and non-government organizations as members. 
 
 The committee, after inspections, submitted a report and selected 42 spots that can be declared as hawkers’ zones while striking off nine spots.
 
 Subsequently, the traffic police too carried out a study of the sites suggested by the NMC. “Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Ashfaq Sheikh submitted a report raising the department’s objections over the proposed spots,” she said. According to traffic police, most spots identified by the NMC for hawking zones are not feasible and were along busy roads. 
 
 Besides encroachment on footpaths, haphazard parking of autorickshaws also causes major problems at the Rani Jhansi Square, which is one of the busiest junctions in the city. The chaos due to hawkers on footpath also makes it dangerous for pedestrians who have to dodge vehicles from all directions. 
 
 “In fact, the NMC has overruled our objection to implement national hawkers’ policy. By allowing vending on busy roads, traffic would be affected badly,” she said and expressed apprehension that the traffic police would be blamed for the resultant on-road mess. Traffic authorities suggest that an anti-encroachment van of the civic body should be stationed at the junction from as early as 8am till 9pm. Of the proposed spots, the traffic police stated that they would not have any objection for 10 spots where open spaces are available. Despite repeated attempts, deputy municipal commissioner (NMC) Ravindra Deotale was not available for comments. 
 
