HYDERABAD: An astrologer, who allegedly sexually exploited several women and collected lakhs of rupees on the pretext of helping them over come problems, was arrested at Meerpet on Wednesday. Most victims were from well-to-do families. He even threatened them with weapons and a fake   identity card.

 Malkajgiri Special Operation Team (SOT) arrested astrologer  .who's just a class 10 passout. He was a regular on television channels and would interact with viewers and provide 'astrological solutions' to their health, wealth, education and marital problems. Using the media, he became popular. Later, he would ask people, who sought his help, to meet him personally at his office `Bhavishyawani' at Meerpet.
 
 “Women, influenced by Narasimha, surrendered to him and he sexually exploited them. Till now, five cases were registered and the victims lost lakhs of rupees. However, women physically exploited by him did not come forward to lodge complaints,“ police said. “He collected photographs of the victims.
 
 We will take him into custody as we need to verify facts,“ deputy commissioner of police (LB Nagar) M Venkateshwar Rao said. In a complaint registered with Vanasthalipuram police, a woman, who went to Narasimha, alleged he foretold that her husband had a life threat and would die shortly if a 'homam' (a ritual) was not done. The victim paid Rs2 lakh cash and a kilogram silver. He told her not to disclose it to her husband. As the victim's problems persisted, she demanded that he return the money and silver. Since then, the culprit began avoiding her.
 
 Similarly, he cheated several people. Later, when the victims demanded return of their monies, he threatened them by showing a fake weapon and a fake CBI identity card.
 
 “Narsimha Charyulu, posing as a swamiji and astrologer, cheated and blackmailed women by not only collecting lakhs of rupees, but also deve loped physical relationship with them on the pretext of solving their problems,'' the DCP said. Five cases were registered against the culprit. He was arrested under IPC sections 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating). They seized a fake pistol, puja items, two laptops, two tolas of  , five kilograms of silver items, Rs5 lakh cash, an   car, a fake CBI Identity card and four mobiles from him. Police anticipate many victims might approach them in the next few days.
 
