KOLHAPUR: While the political parties start their countdown for the D-day,   party leader,   released their manifesto on Saturday. Other political factions are expected to release their goals and achievements for this election soon.

 The main focus of the manifesto was to improve health facilities, create better opportunities in education sector and improve the situation of farmers across the district.
 
 Banking on the work done in the current session (2012-2017), the manifesto states that the party will be setting up Sarpanch bhawan in the district and Panchayat bhawan at taluka level. The aim behind such establishments is to provide information about various schemes of state government which can be beneficial for the citizens.
 
 The party aims to retain power in the upcoming election. In the previous election, the party scored 31 seats and this time the party is aiming for 67 out of 69 seats in the zilla parishad election.
 
 The party also promises to implement Adarsh Gaav scheme with full force and efficiency. Under this scheme, the farmers will be promoted to take up organic farming and a common warehouse will be set up to store their produce. Special efforts will be taken to host exhibitions to provide a platform for farmers to get consumers for their product.
 
 Coming to the water scarcity problem in the district, the party has promised an effective management of water so that the water scarcity problem can be improved across villages.   collection which is one of the major sources of solid waste in villages will also be taken care off.
 
 The digital education scheme is also in the party agenda. Party has promised to emphasise to digitalise primary education and prepare students for competitive examinations. The party also promises to install CCTV cameras in the villages that are densely populated for the security of residents.
 
 Patil said, “The manifesto focuses on over all development of the district and we will be providing necessary infrastructure for upliftment of the students, farmers and residents of villages across districts.”
 
