PATNA: The railways has proposed changes in its passenger reservation system from July 1.

 According to a   official, the proposals include 50% refund in case of cancellation of Tatkal tickets from July 1. Earlier, cancellation of Tatkal tickets meant zero refund.
 
 The proposals also include allowing Tatkal ticket bookings for only one hour from 10am to 11am for AC coach berths and from 11am to 12 noon for Sleeper coach berths every day.
 
 In another major policy decision, the railways is contemplating doing away with the waitlist ticket booking system from July 1. Only confirmed and RAC berth tickets are proposed to be issued to passengers. “This move is aimed at curbing avoidable rush of passengers in reserved coaches,” the   Board official said, adding the number of coaches in Rajdhani Express and   across the country would be increased from next month to provide more accommodation to passengers.
 
 The IRCTC, which has been so far issuing journey tickets only in English, will issue tickets in various languages from July 1. The railways is considering giving 50% refund to passengers in case of cancellation of ‘Suvidha’ train tickets.
 
 Premium trains may be withdrawn soon as they have not evoked the desired response from the revenue point of view, sources said, adding a wake-up call facility on running trains would also be launched from July 1. 
 
 SECURITY BEEFED UP AT MAJOR STATIONS
 
  The railways has introduced a crowd management system (CMS) at all major stations under the Danapur division of the   (ECR), including the Patna Junction, the Rajendra Nagar Terminal, the   and the Danapur station, to streamline post-Holi passengers’ rush.
 
 According to Danapur DRM R K Jha, security arrangements have been beefed up and there are no chances of passengers being drugged or robbed on running trains. “At least 100 cops have been deployed at vulnerable places in all Patna-bound trains from Mumbai, Delhi, Secunderabad, Pune, Bangalore and Chennai. RPF and GRP men are helping people board trains in queues at stations and using loudspeakers to regulate the rush of passengers in general coaches,” Jha said on Wednesday, adding efforts were on to expose criminal gangs active on running trains.
 
 Meanwhile, the Danapur station from where two important long-distance trains — the Patna-Bangalore Sanghamitra Express and the Patna-Pune Express — originate has become overcrowded and GRP and RPF men are finding it difficult to cope with the rush of passengers there. Earlier, these trains originated from the Pataliputra Junction.
 
