Fixed on realising their dream of achieving a `Congress-free India', BJP's high command in New Delhi has always considered Karnataka to be a gateway to South Indian politics. And kickstarting its preparations a few years ago with the tag line `Mission-150', the BJP had launched a high-decibel campaign. But, with just a few months ahead of the general polls in the early 2018, the   seems to have given up on Karnataka by letting its `disciplined' leaders squabble among themselves.

 Even as the bitter fight among their top leaders has left many party workers dispirited, the party supporters are even more annoyed over the prolonged silence of their strong high command leaders.
 
 Their decision to withdraw from the party affairs of Karnataka has raised doubts among the party workers whether the high command has given up on Karnataka ahead of 2018 assembly polls.
 
 While the clamour for power and action against BS Yeddyurappa is reaching a new crescendo with each passing day, the high command leaders have remained mute, showing no signs of repairing the state unit.
 
 Sources in the party revealed to Bangalore Mirror that the high command leaders in New Delhi are neither happy about the way things are going in Karnataka nor are they content with Yeddyurappa's actions.
 
 While the intensifying dissidence in the name of `Rayanna Brigade', led by KS Eshwarappa, has done enough damage, the leaders are equally unhappy with the administration style of Yeddyurappa whom they thought to be more resolute after enduring several hardships in his first innings.“There is no doubt that   has been a binding force in the party who has kept the state unit united. However the party, while bringing him back, had great expectations that he would inject fresh blood into the party and widen the party's base across the state. Seeing no hope and considering intervening at an appropriate time, the high command leaders, too, have chosen to be silent,“ opined a senior BJP leader from New Delhi.
 
 Evident to the resentment of BJP's top leaders over BSY's actions, the latter was given a cold shoulder by the party's national president Amit Shah on Friday when Yeddyurappa arrived in New Delhi to apprise him about the developments.
 
 Though Yeddyurappa held meetings with Karnataka incharge Muralidhar Rao and Ramlal, he could not meet Amit Shah as the BJP strongman was preparing for his three-day tour of Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 Meanwhile, talks are abuzz within the BJP that their national leaders are mulling over adopting the New Delhi strategy in Karnataka too. “The squabble for power in Delhi BJP too reached new heights ahead of the recent local bodies polls. The party decided that no sitting corporator would be given a ticket and fielded new candidates.Yet, the party swept the polls with a thumping majority and attributed the success to clean governance and efficient work by the Centre. Backed by Narendra Modi's leadership, the party is even considering fielding new faces in Karnataka too,“ said another senior BJP leader in Delhi.
 
 
 
 
 On the flipside, ruling congress in Karnataka has left no stones unturned to cover up its dissidence fearing it would work in the favour of BJP which is going all out to trounce Congress in the state assembly polls.
 
 Leading the party actions, chief minister Siddaramaiah has been personally meeting disgruntled leaders and successfully convincing many of them to remain with the party even during the 2018 polls. But now a few months away from the polls, Siddaramaiah has been consciously working to win the confidence of those dissident leaders. Political grapevine has it that several congress leaders are eager to join BJP close on the heels of SM Krishna doing so.
 
 But unwilling to let go of any of his leaders, Siddaramaiah reportedly convinced Ambareesh over a dinner meeting and succeeded in retaining him in Congress. The CM also invited Satish Jharakiholi to his residence recently and assured him of suitable position in the party.
 
