Kolkata: With less than four days to go before the Dalai Lama’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh, the heat of Indo-China friction over the visit has touched the city too. The Chinese Consul General in Kolkata, Ma Zhanwu, minced no words, when he said that China will react negatively and will be compelled to take action, if India did not cancel Dalai Lama’s trip to Arunachal Pradesh on April 4. He met the media to brief them about a business delegation from China to the city on April 5 and 6, but spent a sizeable part of time discussing the Dalai’s visit.

 Tawang is disputed territory between India and China and the Dalai should be kept away from the place if an amicable solution to the border dispute is sought. The Dalai’s presence will only aggravate the situation. “China’s ministry of foreign affairs met the Indian ambassador in Beijing and demanded a cancellation of the Dalai’s visit last week. The ambassador of China in India has also given a representation to the Indian ministry of external affairs. Despite that if the visit happens, China will be forced to take measures against India and that will affect co-operation and ties between us,” Ma said in no uncertain terms. He described the Dalai as “no innocent monk” but a “very shrewd and political one, whose aim is to enhance split politics. India should not help him in his efforts.
 
 “China is heaving in anger already and India should heed that. It is a developing country and China will try its best to help it achieve its goals but by giving its permission to the Dalai’s visit, India is breaking China’s trust!” Ma said. He stressed that India had signed a bi-lateral agreement to recognize the Tibetan Autonomous Region as part of China, so why now allow a secessionist leader to a disputed land?
 
 At least 25 leading companies from China’s   will be visiting the city for two days to look at investment opportunities in Bengal. While some companies will look at opportunities to set up shop here, there will be others who will look at technology transfer and joint venture opportunities with companies based in Bengal. The visit is being facilitated by the state industries department and the  . The latter has shortlisted 60 companies from Bengal who deal in agriculture, agro-processing, chemicals and fertilisers, food processing etc to interact with the Chinese companies for possible investment.
 
 As things stand now, some Chinese companies from the province have evinced interest in setting up a model farm where fertilizers and popular equipments will be displayed.
 
