MUMBAI: After a torrential season of  , the police appear to have cracked the source of the security breach. They have reportedly found out how Class XII papers were smuggled out—all six of them— only to be shared by scores of examinees. A pair of scissors and the district code on papers were clues that led cops to the accused.

 Early on Saturday, at 4.45am, Vashi police arrested Anand Kamat (43), trustee and   of Mount Mary High School, Virar; Ganesh Rane (30), head clerk of the school; advocate Nikhil Rane (29) who runs a private tutorial; and Vinesh Dhotre (27), faculty at Lokmanya Junior College who also runs a private tutorial. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 409, 201 and 120(B) for breach of trust, manipulating evidence and criminal conspiracy. Initial interrogation revealed that they were allegedly involved in other paper leaks too.
 
 In the images shared by TOI, a pair of scissors and the custodian centre’s number, which were inadvertently visible alongside the papers, led cops to the source of the leaks. Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police, Navi Mumbai, said, “The   paper leak cases were cracked with the help of three vital clues.”
 
 First, the backward integration of the WhatsApp messages enabled cops to reach the source. The second clue was the WhatsApp image of the leaked question paper of Secretarial Practice, which had the code ‘T-70’ meant for Palghar district. The third clue was a pair of scissors with a unique design, again captured in the WhatsApp image of the question paper as it was used as a paper weight while clicking the picture of the paper, said Pandey.
 
 Subsequently, working backward, the cops zeroed in on the mobile number of a Class IX student of Mount Mary School, whose phone was used by Kamat and Rane for clicking pictures of the papers, which were forwarded via WhatsApp.
 
 Explainng how they cracked the case, senior inspector Ajay Landge said, “The key accused, headmaster of Mount Mary School, was the authorized person to open the question paper bundle that was received at the custodian centre. But he misused his powers by leaking the question paper much before the exam started. Also, soon after the FIR of the first paper leak of the   was registered on March 4, with the help of TOI, the whistle-blower of the paper leak, we obtained the open link of the WhatsApp group on which the question paper was posted.”
 
 “Thereafter, one cop became a dummy member of that WhatsApp group and we immediately procured the mobile numbers of all the members of that group. The group members were contacted and by back trial, we managed to trace the origin.”
 
 Landge further said, “To find the pair of scissors, after zeroing in on the Virar school, we asked the authorities as to how the question paper bundles were opened. They said they used a pair of scissors. When it was brought, the key accused were trapped.”
 
 The HSC paper leaks started early in the exam season and this TOI journalist received a link to join a group—HSC paper leak link 17. Since then, images of various question papers were shared 20-40 minutes before each paper—Marathi, Secretarial Practice, Physics, Political Science, Mathematics and Statistics, Book-Keeping and Accountancy. 
 
 The group suddenly became inactive when new members, including cops and other journalists, joined it. After the crackdown on Saturday, a broadcast message stated: “Apne mobile ko facewash lagakar, garam paani se dhokar, use kumkum aur chawal lagakar, mandir mein chadha do (wash your phone and donate it to a temple).”
 
 
