In the latest episode of  , Jhanvi gets Anika ready. Dadi comes and compliments her. She then goes to check  . She finds him all set for the wedding. She asks Pinki to set his turban. Pinki gets emotional while doing it. Om and Rudra think about Gauri and Bhavya. 

 Meanwhile, Abhay finds Sahil upset. He goes to him and asks him to celebrate his sister’s wedding not by dancing on feet but by being happy from within. He gives him the medicines and checks the arrangements. 
 
 Anika and Shivaay come for the wedding. Shivaay holds Anika. They sit for the ‘pheras’. When Pundit Ji asks for Anika’s parents for ‘kanyadaan’, Om and Rudra come forward. They tell the priest how Anika is their sister. The girl in the veil thinks of conveying Shivaay her message by throwing a chit at him. The paper falls near Shivaay, but as soon as he is about to pick it up, the priest tells Shivaay to come before Anika. They complete all the rituals. And Anika and Shivaay are finally declared as a married couple. 
 
 Shivaay hugs Anika and gets close to her. Dadi interrupts yet again, which irks Shivaay. When they all decide to get a family picture clicked, Shivaay asks for Gauri. Om tells them she had to leave for some important work. He feels annoyed that Gauri didn’t give importance to his family and their happiness. After the photo session, Rudra leaves to meet Bhavya again. 
  
  Later, Shivaay and Anika take blessings from everyone including Pinki. She gives Anika ancestral bangles, but Shivaay is still cold towards her. Dadi asks Jhanvi to take Shivaay and Anika to their room. 
 
 Elsewhere, Rudra goes to Bhavya and finds her sitting in a ‘mandap’. He drinks while Bhavya and Manav exchange garlands. When they get up to take ‘pheras’, Rudra shouts at them and fabricates a false story maligning Bhavya’s character. Bhavya is furious at Rudra for doing so and asks him to leave. Meanwhile, Om goes to a hotel and spots Gaurav to whom Gauri had earlier sent a message. He follows her and thinks that Gauri is sleeping with another man. 
  
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Ishqbaaz.
 
