JAIPUR:   has entered into the league of   in the country which have installed highly expensive instruments—SQUID mangometer and   (MBE) worth Rs 4 crore and 7.5 crore, respectively. These instruments were bought from UGC fund and require an estimated maintenance cost of Rs 1 lakh each per month. The Superconducting Quantum Interference Device instrument is installed at the instrumentation centre to determine the magnetic values of materials at a temperature of -270 degrees Celsius. While MBE machine is in installing process at the Centre for Converging Technology (CCT). 

 “Both SQUID and MBE machines are available in around 10 institutions in the country including Rajasthan University, which is a matter of pride. This instruments are meant to be used by the senior research fellows working specifically on the research areas related to these imported machines,” said S N Dolia, associate professor, department of physics.
 
 The SQUID instrument’s role is to identify the magnetic strength of materials and combinations of material listed in the periodic table. The materials having high magnetic values are used for storage of data. The pen drives and hard drives use magnetic material where data can be saved. “The dry form of material is put in the machine which takes 7 to 20 hours to determine the magnetic values of the material. This machine runs round-the-clock to maintain the high temperature of -270 degrees Celsius of helium. It is an opportunity for the research fellows to accelerate their research by using this machine,” said Dolia. 
 
 Imported from the US, special arrangement have been made at the instrument department like three air conditioners, UPS and power back-up. A technical person is hired for monitoring the machine. The Molecular Bean Epitaxy Growth machine is for students of CCT and for those pursuing courses in biology, physics and chemistry. The maintenance cost of running these equipment is being met by the UGC fund but later on the university may have to bear the cost. 
 
 
