NEW DELHI: As the government moves to set up a more empowered panel for OBCs amid agitations from strong communities to secure “backward” status, experts are warning that the Centre should prevent growing attempts to abuse the fruits of Mandal Commission. 

 PS Krishnan, domain expert and a champion of OBC reservations, told TOI, “The government should prevent the efforts of well-established advanced communities to get into the list of OBCs.” While welcoming the initiative to give Constitutional status to  , observers are seeing it through the prism of burgeoning street battles from advanced communities like Jats, Patels, Kapus, Marathas, to be categorized as “backward classes”. 
 
 “Any community that needs the force of muscle power to get into the   is suspect,” Krishnan said. He urged political parties that OBC/SC/ST status for a community should not be a “matter of competitive electoral politics”. “Electoral use and misuse of promise to include a community in the OBC list should be abjured,” he said, adding there should be a “national consensus” on principles of caste categorisation on the lines of foreign policy and national security. 
 
 The Modi government on Thursday announced it would replace the NCBC with “National Commission for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes” which will have Constitutional status. Also, the power to grant OBC status would shift from the Centre to Parliament, as is done with SCs and STs. Welcoming the move, Krishnan said the Centre should avoid the past practice of governments nominating “chamchas” (cronies) to run the Commission. 
 
 “The governments tend to use the Commission to appoint ‘chamchas’ or accommodate the election losers. If this principle is not given the go-by and preference is not given to people with experience and record, no national commission will be able to rise to the expectations,” he said. Interestingly, the former member secretary to NCBC and former adviser to the government said the Centre should be careful with the acronym of the new panel, saying it should be “NCSEdBC” and not “NCSEBC”. “It should be clear that ‘E’ stands for ‘educationally’ and not ‘economically’,” he added, underlining that use of NCSEBC will play into the hands of upper castes seeking reservation on economic criteria. 
 
 As a suggestion, Krishnan said the new panel should move away from the advisory role of NCSC and be vested with power to monitor the implementation of schemes for OBC welfare. “Besides grievance redressal, it should also have the mandate to advise the government on schemes for BCs to enable them to reach the level of forward castes,” he said.
 
