PANCHKULA: Rape convict Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet   Singh, who has been sentenced to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment, has mentioned his close confidante and adopted daughter   as the person he wishes to speak to. He is lodged in the high security Sunaria jail of of Rohtak.

 Unaware of the fact that 
  of Haryana police for the violence that erupted after his conviction, sources said Gurmeet is eager to be in touch with her.
 
 According to Sunaria jail officials, one of the two numbers Gurmeet has given to the staff to connect him is that of Honeypreet. The other number provided by him is the one he used before leaving the dera premises on August 25 for Panchkula for hearing the verdict in the rape cases against him.
 
 “We have given both numbers to the police for verification. Secondly,   is an accused facing serious charges, hence it may not be possible to connect her with the dera head until she comes out clean,” Haryana DGP (prisons) K P Singh said on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 Rapist Dera Sacha Sauda head   has started his labour in the jail by planting trees and plants around his barracks. 
 
 Once lording over the sprawling dera headquarters at Sirsa, 
  is now stamped as prisoner number 1997. 
 
 Haryana DGP (prisons) K P Singh said Gurmeet would grow vegetables adjoining his barracks. “There is a small plot of land where he will grow vegetables,” he told TOI. Gurmeet has already taken up his work. 
 
 DGP Singh said, “Whatever he produces will be used in the jail mess.” He also dismissed the allegation that Gurmeet was being given VVIP treatment or he was crying in the jail or asking for a lot of things. 
 
 “He falls under the category of unskilled labour. Hence he will get a wage of Rs 20 per day. He sleeps like other convicts of his category. He may use coupons to buy eatables from the jail canteen. We have put a cap of Rs 5,000 on monthly spending of the convicts of his category,” said the DGP, adding that Gurmeet was eating the jail food and living like any other prisoner.
 
