NAGPUR: Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh commemorated the 50th death anniversary of legendary Marathi singer and stage actor Bal Gandharva with a nostalgia-evoking musical programme 'To Rajhans Ek...' on Friday evening. Their auditorium Sanskrutik Sankul was packed with music enthusiasts who came to listen to the natya-geet belonging to the late singer’s dramas.

 Conceptualized and anchored by littérateur Prakash Edlabadkar, the programme presented a collection of 13 songs drawn from Bal Gandharva’s most famous plays. It also had a line-up of worthy singers — Snehal Paladhikar, Pt. Bhaubhat Ladse, Manjiri Lule, Vaikhari Vazalwar, Manjiri Vaidya and Shivangi Kayande. The singers were accompanied by Sandeep Gurnule on harmonium, Shridhar Korde on tabla and Hrishikesh Karmarkar playing Dilruba.
 
 The event began with  , followed by the rendition of the natya geet ‘Naman natwara vismaykara’ sung in group by the artistes, from the play Naandi. Vaidya then sang ‘Nath ha maaza mohi khalan’ from the play  , followed by Vazalwar’s rendition of ‘Vedya mana talmalsi’, from the production Sangeet Shankutal. 
 
 Edlabadkar interspersed his oration between the songs, where he brought out interesting aspects from the singer, also referred to as Rajans’ personality. ‘Khara toh prema na dhari’ from the play   was sung by Paladhikar. ‘Pandu nrupti janakjaya’, ‘VAD jau kunala sharan’ and ‘Madhukar van van firat’ were some of the other songs sung melodiously by the artistes. 
 
 “Nobody should forget the contribution that Balgandharva has made to Marathi theatre, especially to music dramas. He was a god-gifted artiste who devoted himself to the stage. I didn’t get to see Balgandharva, but I’ve been hearing about him and listening to his songs since childhood. My father was a great fan of his,” said Edladkar.
 
 The event drew appreciation from the listeners. “Songs that were selected were beautiful and the singers were also of high calibre. It was a pleasure attending the event,” said Deepali Panke, one of the attendees. Giving her opinion, Suniti Deo, a retired professor said, “Balgandharva was one such theatre artiste who could enact a woman very well. I’ve attended several programmes dedicated to his natyasangeet, but found this one to be amazing.”
 
 
