MANGALURU: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s visit to this coastal city saw   lock horns with their counterparts from Kerala over providing security to the guest. The police units had a brief stand-off at the Mangaluru Central railway station when Vijayan alighted from the train with his protection team in tow. The standoff began over what security apparatus the CM was supposed to use during his day-long visit.

 Sources close to the developments told STOI that Vijayan’s personal security detail wanted to take over his security from Mangaluru City Police, the jurisdictional unit tasked with this duty. “They (Kerala police) were expecting a prime position in our security apparatus arranged for their CM,” a senior police officer said, adding that the security was overseen personally by Alok Mohan, additional director-general of police (law and order).
 
 Sources said this led to a minor exchange of words with state police personnel objecting to their counterparts from Kerala viewing them with suspicion. Senior Mangaluru City police officials were upset by the attitude of  . Vijayan, the sources said, was a silent spectator even as police personnel from the two sides sorted out the procedural and territorial matters pertaining to his security.
 
 M Chandra Sekhar, city police commissioner, told STOI that a visiting CM of any state is entitled to be accompanied by his protection personnel. 
 
 Local security and escort is always given by the police force from the host state, he said. Sources in state intelligence said the matter was resolved after a chat with G Lakshman, IGP (security), Kerala State Police and Vijayan proceeded in a convoy arranged by state police.
 
 The close protection personnel of Vijayan was hurriedly accommodated in trailing police escort vehicles arranged for the CM, who travelled in a bulletproof vehicle brought from Bengaluru. Vijayan later, at a private function, appreciated the security arrangements made by the state government. U T Khader, minister for food and civil supplies, called on Vijayan at a star hotel where he was put up on arrival.
 
 
