PATNA: The appointment of Vijay P Bhatkar as the chancellor of   ( ) on Friday is likely to expedite the process of selecting a new vice-chancellor ( ) of the university.

 N K Singh, one of the members of the newly constituted NU governing board, told TOI on Saturday that a search committee may be constituted in the next meeting. “The new chancellor will shortly convene a meeting of the new governing board to approve the constitution of a search committee to find a new VC. The chancellor will chair the search committee to comprise of two or three members. Applications will be invited through advertisements for the VC post. The committee will then suggest three names to the governing board, which will finally select one and send it to the President of India for final approval,” said Singh, who is a former revenue secretary and   member.
 
 Singh said the three names may be shortlisted from the 150-odd applications already received through advertisements issued last year. “It will be the discretion of the new governing board whether to select three names from applications already received or to float fresh advertisements for the same. However, there is a possibility of selecting three names from the applications already received,” he said.
 
 President   had, on November 20 last year, ordered Gopa Sabharwal to demit the VC’s office by November 24. Gopa was appointed as NU vice-chancellor for five years on November 25, 2010. Later, she was given one year extension on October 25, 2015. Sources said the NU statute notified in 2012 states that there can be only one-time extension for the VC post and the period will not exceed one year. Accordingly, NU’s previous governing board had formed a five-member search committee in January last year for appointing Gopa’s successor and advertisements for that were issued in October. 
 
 The new governing board has 14 members with the chancellor as the chairperson. Other members include (acting) VC, secretary, higher education, Government of India, secretary (east), ministry of external affairs and five members to be nominated by India, China, Australia, Laos PDR and Thailand.
 
 Sources said China and Thailand have renominated their members while Australia and Laos have not confirmed their representatives yet. India has nominated Singh as its representative. Besides, Professor Arvind Sharma from McGill University of Canada, Indian Council for Cultural Relations president professor Lokesh Chandra and Niti Aayog vice-chairman Dr Arvind Panagariya have been nominated for the three seats reserved for ‘renowned academics/educationists’. Two officials are to be recommended by Bihar government as well.
 
 
