BHUBANESWAR: Rattled by the   that killed 41 passengers, the   (ECoR) has stepped up night-time vigil on movement of trains besides intensifying safety patrol and track maintenance work. ECoR general manager   has been taking a keen interest and has been boarding trains and visiting stations to carry out surprise inspections during the night. 

 Sources said senior officers of ECoR will conduct night inspection. "All trains travelling at night will have a senior officer in the engine room. Earlier, only officers of the technical department like mechanical, electrical, operating, signalling and civil engineering would be carrying out safety inspection," a source said. 
 
 "The ECoR is focusing on far-flung stations like the Koraput-Rayagada line, Sambalpur-Angul, Titlagarh-Raipur, Rayagada-Titlagarh and Vizianagaram-Rayagada lines," a railway officer said. 
 
 "The basic purpose of having such a broad-based inspection system is to boost the morale of the field staff. Besides, night inspections, senior officials visiting far-flung stations will help in assessment of deficiencies in the services and passenger and railway staff amenities," ECoR chief spokesperson   said. 
 
 "There is also a plan to set up fire detection and suppression system in stations. Besides technical audit of maintenance practices will be reviewed at senior level. Signalling system at the stations will be upgraded to be in sync with the latest and most advanced systems," said a railway source. 
 
 "Ultrasonic flaw detection (USFD) test is being conducted on the tracks to detect and prevent rail fractures and weld failures. This test has also been intensified to pre-determine the detectable flaws in the track so that preventive action can be taken for remedial measures," the source added. 
 
 "Importance has been given to ensure proper weighing of goods trains to avoid any case of overloading which may have adverse effect on tracks. A special drive has been started to replace rail lines wherever required. In the budget, Rs 700 crore has been provided for track renewal," the source said. 
 
 Mishra said anti-sabotage rail clips with illuminated stripes have been provided on tracks for early detection and prevention of sabotage. "If a sabotage takes place, the train driver or mechanical staff in the engine can detect it from the gap in illuminated stripes on the tracks," he added. 
 
 "On the spot reward scheme has been made more liberal so that meritorious work on the field related to safety can be suitably awarded," Mishra said.
 
