MUMBAI: The   imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on slum dwellers who encroached on Western Railway’s land near Jogeshwari and sought protection from eviction. A division bench of Justice S Dharmadhikari and Justice B Colabawalla slammed the slum dwellers for delaying demolitions by launching multiple litigations. The court cleared the decks for demolition of the hutments near railway tracks.

 “We are of the clear opinion this is an abuse of the process of this court. The (HC’s discretionary powers) is not available to such encroachers and law breakers who, with impunity, enter upon public properties and without any right or a semblance of any permission, proceed to erect and construct structures thereon. These structures may be existing for decades together, but the very act of encroaching upon railway property (is) a punishable offence,” said the judges. 
 
 The court said it decided to impose the heavy fine to act as a deterrent. “We are constrained to direct such payment of costs because we routinely find valid and binding orders of this court are being frustrated and their implementation defeated by resorting to frivolous and vexatious proceedings as are presently before us,” said the judges adding, “These are not slum dwellers but occupants of structures constructed by encroaching railway property. They can afford repeated challenges and by filing legal proceedings in different courts. Surely they do not deserve to be protected.” The HC directed the petitioner to shell out the money which will have to be paid as legal costs to the Railways.
 
 The HC order should boost WR’s efforts to clear encroachers who have delayed its Rs 900-crore project to build a sixth line between   and Borivli. 
 
 The case before the HC related to the hutment colony at Indira Gandhi Nagar, Bandrekar Wadi, close to the tracks in Jogeshwari (East). In 2006, after following legal procedures, the Railways passed eviction orders under the Public Premises Act. In 2014 some railway employees moved the HC as WR had failed to demolish the structures. In October 2016, the HC cleared the demolition. The hutment dwellers attempted to stall the demolition by filing cases in the HC and civil court. Last year, they approached the HC seeking recall of the October 2016 order. They claimed they were living in structures constructed prior to 1995 and had photo identity cards issued by the government. They urged the HC for protection under the Slum Act. The court dismissed their pleas and said their structures were on public premises that had not been declared as slums. “This is a backdoor method of trying to perpetuate a patently illegal occupation of public premises,” said the HC. 
 
 
