KOLKATA: Smothered by  , the sprawling   that kept the city from choking for centuries is gasping for breath.   that start on   run uninterrupted along the Basanti Expressway for 10 long kilometers, penetrating deep into the heart of EKW whose   warrants extreme care. Listed as wetland of international importance under Unesco's Ramsar Convention, the wetlands, which act as the kidneys of the city by naturally treating its sewage, should have been a pride for Kolkata. Instead, it is considered a wasteland.

 As TOI drove through EKW on World Wetlands Day , the landscape that was once dotted with waterbodies ensconsed in verdant green was singed and scarred. Tonnes of plastic -from cement bags to toothpaste tubes -are dumped in hundreds of illegal sheds that house plastic garbage, each handling 500kg a day .They get truckloads of plastic refuse that is sorted and sold to illegal processing units that have also cropped up in EKW . The plastic is melted at night to produce noodle-like strands that are shipped to plastic bag manufacturing units. Some units also melt hard plastic to create granules used to make articles like mugs and toys.
 
 “So powerful is the mafia connection in the illegal trade that transportation, stocking and sifting of plastic waste is carried out in full public glare during the day . The only activity done under the cover of dar kness is the melting process when toxic plumes are released. We keep our windows shut but still feel choked,“ said a youth at Lalkuthi, which has several such units.
 
 The air hangs heavy . There is a nauseating smell of burnt plastic punched with stench of animal hide scraps processed in open ovens. Some locals have dared to go to Anandapur police station to complain. They have also approached local MLA Javed Khan.
 
 The MLA pleads helplessness. “I am aware the units are a nuisance and have asked the police to act. But the reality is that they continue to function illegally .“
 
 Incidentally , mushrooming of illegal recycling units coincides with the shift from open garbage dumps to compactor stations and the displacement of ragpickers who sorted plastic, as well as metal, glass, paper and leather, from the sites. A major chunk of the 5,000-odd rag-pickers have shifted to Dhapa where they now struggle to break down the compact garbage to extract the recyclables.
 
 Ecologist Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, whose book `The Trash Diggers' talks about the people who do the dirty job working barefoot, but with a positive ecological footprint, suspects the ragpickers' arrival at Dhapa could have led to the mushrooming of units along the highway that runs parallel to Dhapa Road.
 
 The ignored and often trashed ragpickers have recently been included in the State Assisted Scheme of Provident Fund for Unrecognised Workers. But with no check on units that exploit their labour, the city's most precious wealth is under a pressing threat.
 
