UDAIPUR: The four-day celebrations of the   concluded at its headquarters at   in Abu Road on Wednesday. 

 Speaking at the valedictory session of the international  , Kiran Bedi, lieutenant governor of Puducherry, exhorted the youth to join   and bring positive change to the country.
 
 “Instead of putting pressure, parents should teach values to their children so that they become good human beings. They will then automatically turn into good doctors, engineers or politicians,” Bedi said. She also said the Puducherry government had decided to make yoga an integral part of school education in the Union Territory.
 
 Bedi suggested Brahma Kumaris to help and coach the youth associated with the institution for civil services. She put forward three suggestions to aid social transformation and improve the lot of the elderly and the terminally ill.
 
 Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Bandu Athawale assured Brahma Kumaris of government support to the suggestion to turn Mt Abu into a world spiritual city.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Assam Governor Banwarilal Purohit said the country was being divided on the lines of caste and religion, but such divisions were not a part of the culture.
 
 Gujarat Governor O P Kohli said positive social change can be brought about only by a movement based on spiritual principles, and called for a value-based perspective to transform youth.
 
 Dignitaries, politicians and performers, who participated in the four-day event, lauded the organization for spreading awareness on sanitation, education and spirituality through over 8,500 meditation centres across the world.
 
 During the celebrations, North Orissa University conferred a honorary doctor of literature degree to Dadi Hirdaya Mohini, additional chief of Brahma Kumaris, for working as a messenger to spread spirituality and the message of God among the people of Orissa. Professor Prafulla Kumar Mishra, vice-chancellor of the university, presented the degree.
 
 Dadi Ratan Mohini, the 92-year-old joint head of the institution, also attended the celebrations. The event, which began on March 26, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video link from Delhi.
 
