PUNE: After a brief lull, temperatures are going up across the state. Pune's day  , which hit 38.3 degrees C recently, will again touch 40 degrees C on May 5, met department officials said.

 The rising temperature may hold some possibility of isolated rain or thundershowers on April 30 for south Madhya Maharashtra, a met department forecast said on Saturday.
 
 The thundershowers may occur due to convective activity, officials said. Meanwhile, mercury has gone on an upward swing in Marathwada and   with Brahmapuri in Vidarbha recording the highest day temperature in the country on April 28 at 45.1 degrees C.
 
 An extended range forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recently said that maximum temperatures are very likely to be normal or below normal over northwest and adjoining central India till May 4. However, from May 5 to May 18, maximum temperatures are likely to be above normal over most parts of the country, including Maharashtra.
 
 During the last few days, temperatures in central Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada were near normal or below normal for several stations. However, mercury began rising from April 25.
 
 On April 24, city’s temperature (Shivaji Nagar) was 35.8 degrees C, around 2.2 degrees below normal, while Lohegaon had reported a below normal temperature of 37.3 degrees C. By April 27, the Shivaji Nagar observatory had touched 38.7 degrees C, though Lohegaon still recorded a below normal 36.9 degrees C.
 
 On Saturday, maximum temperature recorded by the Lohegaon observatory stood at 39.7, around 1.7 degrees C above normal. By May 3, day temperatures in the city are expected to touch 39 degrees C, followed 40 degrees C on May 5.
 
 A met department official told TOI that the rising temperature has been due to the weak anti-cyclone over north  , which is causing warm winds to enter the state. “Temperatures have touched 40 degrees C in Gujarat and west Rajasthan. Northwesterly winds from these regions are flowing into Maharashtra, causing a rise in temperature,” he said.
 
 Some stations in central Maharashtra, like Nasik, Kolhapur and Solapur, however, recorded marginally below normal day temperatures on Saturday.
 
