KOLHAPURI: The   makers are awaiting approval for patenting of the product since the last five years. 

 Recently, MP   raised the patent issue in the Parliament when the Footwear Design and Development   was under discussion. The chappal makers had applied for patent in 2011. They claim that patenting will help in brand placement across the globe, especially since the makers provide good quality leather at a nominal cost. 
 
 Bhupal Shete, chappal maker said, “The branding will be helpful only if the cost involved in the business gets lower. The leather required for making chappal needs to be brought from other states and they are costly as well as of poor quality. The product is being made since many years in the city and therefore, deserves the patent. With the young generation not interested in the business of chappal-making, patenting will help bring in fresh blood.”
 
 GI and patenting will help reduce the quantity of duplicate Kolhapuri chappals circulating in the market, say the makers. The duplicate chappals are made up of poor quality leather or plastic and are available at almost one-fourth of the price of original Kolhapuri chappals. “The duplicate chappals have eaten up our market. Earlier, the demand for the original chappals from major stores in large cities was higher, but since the last few years the demand has been reducing consistently. Large conglomerates are producing duplicate chappals and selling them at lower prices,” adds Shete. 
 
 The Kolhapuri chappals are handmade and the tradition of making it is passed on from a person to his son since the last few generations. Since the state government banned slaughter of cow progeny extending to bulls and bullocks, the traditional industry has seen a dip by 50% owing to decline in the supply of good leather.
 
 “Around 3,500 families from the city are involved in making Kolhapuri chappals. There is no facility available to increase the scope of the business. I have demanded that a branch of   should be set up in Kolhapur. The patenting of the product will help in circulation of duplicate chappals,” said Mahadik.
 
 
