HYDERABAD: The landmark 139-year-old Se cunderabad Club is all set to lose a major chunk of land, robbing the majestic structure of its beauty and grandeur.
Also known as  , the Secunderabad Club is spread over 21.22 acres of prime land. Several structures have sprung up on its premises, but the state government now wants to take over some of the land for widening of the arterial Rajiv Rahadari as part of the proposed Strategic Road Development Project (SRDP).
 
 The state government plans to construct an 18-km-long flyover to ease traffic woes between Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) and the Shamirpet outer ring road. The road will be widened to 200 feet from the existing 30 feet. The process of demarcating the Club land required has been completed.
 
 There is also confusion over who the land belongs to. While the Club authorities claim that the land is private, records of the   Office (DEO), Telangana, reveal that the land is managed by the defence authorities. On the other hand, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) authorities say the club falls under their jurisdiction and that no construction can be taken up on its premises without their permission.
 
 One of the oldest clubs in India, the Secunderabad Club was founded in 1878.Once a hunting lodge, the Salar Jung I, Mir Turab Ali Khan, who served as the prime minister of the Nizam, used to stay there during his hunting trips.
 
 It currently has fivestar accommodation that includes heritage suites, air-conditioned bars, dining halls, banquet halls as well as a number of lawns for large gatherings.
 
 At one point of time, the club was known as the Se cunderabad Public Rooms.Later, the British presence in Hyderabad increased and the Britishers brought in civilian officers to look after the Nizam's Railways as well as judicial and administrative system. Thus the Secunderabad Public Rooms was turned into the United Services Club representing all sections of the services.
 
 Till 1947, only British citizens were allowed to hold the position of club president and only a handful of high-ranking Hyderabad nobility were offered membership. But now, the club has over 3,300 members from all walks of life.
 
 The club received heritage status in 1999 and has several articles of historic value. The entrance from Gate No. 1 into the once `Gentlemen Only' club is flanked by a pair of cannons. The engraving on it dates it to 1756.
 
 While many of the ar ticles belonging to the f Salar Jung are period of Salar Jung are lost, an old piece of furniture that is still available is the managing committee table, which is a little over 100 years old. It is 11 feet long, 2.5 feet high and 2 feet wide and is made of three planks of a foot width each, all cut from a single log! Some of the trees on the premises are also over 100-years-old and play host to a variety of birds, making the club an oasis of calm in the middle of the hustle-bustle of the city .
 
 The club is also an example of engineering excellence. The stairway leading up to the ballroom has a set of   and the entire structure is supported by a single wooden pillar and the walls.
 
 “The facilities are for members only . We have a fuel outlet, a grocery shop, eSeva cen tre and an ATM. Much care has been taken to put up these facilities without disturbing the heritage structure,“ Secunderabad Club president Shashidhar Batchu told TOI.
 
 Referring to the proposed elevated corridor, he said, “Till now, we have not received official communication on acquisition of land. We are not against development work. If we receive a requisition to allot our land, we will discuss it with the club members and take a final decision.“
 
 SCB assistant engineer Balakrishna added: “The Secunderabad Club land falls under the Defence Estates Office, Telangana. It is classified as B3 category land that belongs to ministry of defence, but has been given on lease. SCB permission is required for construction. In the past, we have served   on the club.“
 
