NEW DELHI: Middle classes are very much a part of the   segment that the government is promoting through steps announced in  , Union Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation Minister   has said. In an exclusive interview to Magicbricks, Naidu said the decision to accord industry status for affordable housing is aimed not just at social housing for the marginalised, but also facilitate house ownership for the urban middle class.

 “India is a huge country and we have different kinds of population as well. Housing is a general activity. When we talk about ‘Housing for All’ it refers to all. The primary responsibility lies with the government to see that the vulnerable sections, the poor sections, the economically weaker sections, get a house,” said Naidu.
 
 He also said the government cannot achieve the ‘Housing for All 2022’ goal by itself and spoke of the key role that private players had to play in achieving the target. 
 
 “Often the complaint from the private sector has been that we do not get money. After two years, the Finance Minister has agreed for   to be given to affordable housing. This will bring in more money to the banks and focus more on creating the housing stock for the affordable sections,” Naidu told Magicbricks.
 
 The bestowing of infrastructure status for affordable housing was announced in Budget 2017 to create a financially secure ground for increased activity in the sector, he said. 
 
 “This will enable the flow of bank’s money into the market and result in housing stock for the needy,” the minister said. Other measures provided to ease the burden of securing houses for new buyers are the interest rate subvention schemes of 4 percent and 3 percent respectively, for housing of Rs 9-12 lakh and Rs 12-18 lakh and considering carpet area of 30 and 60 sq meter, instead of built-up area.
 
 For the developer community, it is good business as the status means more access to funds and faster approvals being provided. Quick approvals within 60 days through online submission of applications will be a possibility. If the approval does not come on time, the developer can file an affidavit and start construction. 
 
 Naidu also spoke of the need to create civic infrastructure to make residential properties more attractive to those who would want to live there. This would include water supply, drainage, sewage, main roads and byroads among other things. 
 
 He cited the example of 23,000 houses lying vacant in Delhi because the area was not connected by transport infrastructure and social infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and job hubs. 
 
 Naidu said the Centre is committed to increasing transparency in the sector through the   Regulatory Act (RERA). He said the Centre would work with state governments to ensure that all states meet the deadline to notify the RERA.
 
 The Union Minister also cautioned of artificial escalation of land prices and the inevitable corrections that come with the creation of such bubbles. He stressed that land prices will not drop suddenly as in the stock market. Naidu expressed confidence that public opinion and consumer pressure would ensure that the final rules are in the spirit of the legislation passed by Parliament. 
 
 At a recent address at the PHD Chambers too the Minister urged real estate developers to take up affordable housing projects in a big way while stressing that therein lies the future of the real estate sector. Elaborating on his statement, the Minister had said, “The government’s focus on ensuring ‘Housing for All’, including the Middle Income Groups offered immense opportunities both at the bottom and the middle of the pyramid which needs to be seized by the developers, who have seen ups and downs in recent years.”
 
 He also exhorted the consumers to flex their muscle as end users to ensure compliance by all stakeholders to ensure that   becomes a reality. 
 
 
 
 
 
