For the Bengali community in the city , which is hund reds of miles away from its roots, Durga Puja is beyond being just a festival.

 Amid a busy week of shopping, pandal hopping with family and friends, gaping at massive decorations, the resounding shonkho, the delectable khichuri bhog and every other dish at the Anand mela, enthusiasts take a moment to appreciate the vibe that promises of happy tides ahead.
 
 Like every year, associations in the city are going the extra mile to preserve their culture by setting up pandals and installing Durga idols.
 
 Bangiya Sanskriti Samsad, Bhosalenagar
 
 Durgotsav celebrations by Bangiya Sanskriti Samsad kick-started with a musical evening on September 24, Anandmela and a quiz competition on September 25. On September 26, commissioner of police Rashmi Shukla will inaugurate of the puja. The Calcutta choir will conduct an audio-visual presentation on September 28. Suchitra Date and her disciples will stage a Bharatnatyam performance on September 28, which will be followed by an Odissi dance by Mahua Ghosh and her team.
 
 Nandanik Sanstha, KP
 
 Celebrating its 14 years in the city, the Nandanik Sanstha will begin with Sashti Puja on September 26. Taking the green route, the sanstha has installed an idol made of mud and straw, which has been painted with eco-friendly colours. The members have organized a string of cultural programmes, including drama, dance and musical evenings, for which artists from across the country have been invited. Besides clothes, jewellery and book stalls, an exciting menu of Bengali, Assamese and Chinese food is arranged.
 
 Aamantran, B T Kawade Road
 
 On September 26, mayor Mukta Tilak, Vascon Engineers chairman and managing director R Vasudevan will inaugurate the puja, which will be followed by `That's all folks' -a fusion of Bengali folk songs with other forms like rock, blues and flamenco. The following day , Aamantran members will present Inhouse Razzmatazz -a blend of indo-western culture through music, dance and ballet.Chefs from Kolkata will prepared bhog that will be served for three days starting Wednesday .On the last day, the immersion procession will begin at 3pm.
 
 Poona Bango Sanmilani & Purbo Poona Kali Bari Samiti, Hadapsar
 
 The association is celebrating its 15th year in the city. Keeping it traditional, the members have planned Devi Amantran and abhibas, Nabapatrika, Sandhi puja, Kumari puja, Debi Baran and Sindur Dan starting from Tuesday , besides cultural events like singing, skit, recitation of Bengali poems and an orchestra. The immersion procession will begin at 4.30pm.
 
 Punya Nagari Banga Samaj, Vishrantwadi
 
 The 21-year-old group has roped in artists from Kolkata to add grandeur to their Puja celebrations. An orchestra will play Bengali and Hindi songs.
 
 Paschim Pune Bangiya Parishad, Baner
 
 Founded in 2004, the association is going green with eco-friendly material for pandal decorations. Every evening from 8pm cultural programmes like a drama, dance and music nights will be held. Helmet, A riveting comedy that raises questions about exploiting natural resources will be staged on September 27. On Thursday , an Ulu dhwani and Shonkho contest will be held at 10.30am.
 
 Bangiya Sanskriti Samsad, Shivajinagar
 
 The puja celebrations here began on September 25 with a quiz competition. The coming days will see a series of events organized by the group for the 77th Pune Sarbojanin Durgotsav. Cultural programmes like dance, drama, plays will be held every evening, apart from the traditional puja. Bhog has been arranged for three days from Wednesday at 1pm.
 
 Bengalee Association, Apte Road
 
 Established in 1990, the Bengalee Association's puja will be inaugurated by Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor of Pune varsity on Tuesday at 7pm. The group's members will participate in a series of cultural programmes like classical dance, drama and fancy dress competition.
 
