The relationship that directors share with their assis tants is a tricky one. Some relationships are very friendly while a few turn sour. And there are times when a director, impressed with his AD's acting skills, decides to cast them in their films in crucial roles. The recent example is that of   casting Karthi in Kaatru Veliyidai. Here's a look at some other assistant directors-turned-actors who have acted in their guru's films...

 
 Mani Ratnam 
 Kaatru Veliyidai
 While he was pursuing his MS in the US, Karthi got interested in filmmaking, and wanting to become a filmmaker, he enrolled in a filmmaking course there. After returning to India, he got a call from Mani Ratnam to act in   (the role that Siddharth did). However, looking at his then bulky frame, the director felt he wouldn't fit the role. Still, he took Karthi on as his assistant. He was seen in a supporting role in the film. In 2015, the director approached him for a dual-hero subject, but that didn't work out. However, he decided to make Kaatru Veliyidai, a romance, with Karthi in the role of a fighter pilot.
 
 
  Mani Ratnam 
  Ayitha Ezhuthu
 Films had been a fascination for Siddharth ever since childhood.After completing his MBA, thanks to his father's friend, ad filmmaker and director Jayendra, the actor joined Mani Ratnam as an assistant director and worked on Kannathil Muthamittaal.But he became an actor when writer Sujatha, who wrote the dialogues of Kannathil Muthamittaal, recommended him to Shankar, who was looking out for a fresh face to cast as the lead in Boys. Even while working on the film, Mani Ratnam decided to rope in his prot'g' in Ayitha Ezhuthu. The actor was one of the three male leads, and played the role of a youngster with dreams of going to the US.
 
 
  Bala; 
  Thaarai Thappattai
 Sasikumar's uncle Kandaswamy was the producer of Sethu, and as a 20-year-old, he assisted Bala, who was making his debut with that film. He then went on to assist Ameer (who had also worked on Sethu) and then turned an actor and director with Subramaniapuram. Meanwhile, after the release of Paradesi, Bala decided to make a film on a group of folk musicians and dancers. He cast Sasikumar in the lead role of Sannasi, and asked the actor to grow his hair long and train for a month with folk musicians.
 
  K Thangappan; 
  Annai Velankanni
 After starting out as a child actor, Kamal made a return to films and worked as an assistant to dance choreographer K Thangappan. In 1971, Thangappan decided to produce and direct a film on Christianity titled Annai Velankanni. Kamal was an AD on the film, and Thangappan asked him to play the role of Lord Jesus for a song (the popular Deva Maindhan Pogindraan) on crucifixion.
 
 
 Gautham Vasudev Menon 
 Nadunisi Naaygal
 Veera has worked with Gautham as an assistant on Vettaiyaadu Vilayaadu, Pachaikili Muthucharam and Vaaranam Aayiram. And the director cast him as one of the leads in Chennaiyil Oru Mazhaikaalam. However, the project did not materialise and Gautham moved on to Vaaranam Aayiram, in which Veera is seen in a minor role. Following that film, Gautham decided to make the experimental thriller Nadunisi Naaygal, and roped in his AD to play the central role of a psycho killer.
 
 
  Bharathirajaa 
  Puthiya Varpugal
 Bhagyaraj assisted Bharathirajaa on the latter's debut 16 Vayathinile, and was also seen in a blink-and-miss role in that film.He was seen in a similar role again in Sigappu Rojakkal. In 1979, he made his debut as a director with Suvarilladha Chiththirangal and played the second lead in that film. In the same year, Bharathirajaa cast him to play the lead role in Puthiya Vaarpugal, in which he played the role of a school teacher.
 
 
 K Bhagyaraj
  Dhavani Kanavugal
 Parthiban was an assistant to   and made his debut on screen as an actor with Ranuva Veeran, directed by SP Muthuraman.He also played minor roles in films like Parvayin Marupakkam, Dhooram Adhighamillai and Anbulla  . But the role that got him noticed was the one he played next -in his guru's Dhavani Kanavugal, in which he was seen in the role of a postman. 
 
 
