Ghaziabad: Three years after 19-year-old Nido Taniam, a student from Arunachal Pradesh, was beaten to death by a group of people in the Lajpat Nagar market here in January 2014, a group of children have brought the issue of racial abuse back to the limelight in the city.

 Abhiwyakti, a group of children from Indirapuram, led by journalist-turned-artist Somya Pandey, showcased two skits here on Saturday. One of the acts was based on   faced by people from the  , while the other was a political satire, talking about the pre- and post-election behaviour of candidates and the electorate in the Indian election scenario.
 
 Issues such as the difference in physical appearance, dress sense, stereotypes based on the size of their eyes and popular North Indian perceptions, among others, were highlighted through anecdotes and dialogues by nine children between four and 14 years.
 
 Sharing her angst expressed in her narrative, Pandey told TOI, “I am only trying to bring about change in our society through children as they are best equipped to awaken their parents and people at large to certain basic issues.”
 
 The plot of the play focused on the real-life struggles faced by northeast migrants, who have a difficult time feeling like they belong in the North Indian society, which judges them on multiple levels. “I live in Ashok Vihar in Delhi, close to Delhi University, which is now a mecca for racial discrimination. Northeast women wearing shorts, skirts or sleeveless outfits are often wrongly perceived by an average North Indian man, who associates such dresses with promiscuity, sexual availability and even prostitution.”
 
 “Racial terms like momo, Chinese and Chinki, among others, are politically incorrect and also insulting,” she said.
 
 Sushmita Singha, who is from Manipur, said, “I have been living in Delhi for almost three years now, and I am harassed more than an average Indian girl. Just because my eyes are smaller and I am shorter it does not give anyone a right to judge my character. My clothes do not express my sexual inclinations,” Singha said.
 
 Referring to the Nido Tainam tragedy, the play outlined the feudal mentality prevalent among members of North Indian communities, who are born with an inherited sense of superiority, Pandey said.
 
 The second skit was a political satire encompassing election gimmicks. The narrative suggested the importance of responsibility shouldered by voters in India. “India being a democracy witnesses mass voter turnouts, but the elected representatives never seem to do the right thing for the public. Through this skit, we have tried to express that ultimately the brunt is borne by the common man, who is duped by the government.”
 
 
