MAU: The silence around 65-year-old Naina Devi, sitting quietly in Bibipur, a dusty village of   is broken by the booming voice of a young man. “Chachi, Jai Bhim,” exclaims  , as he adjusts his dark brown sun glasses and twirls up his moustache before greeting the woman with folded hands.

 It is afternoon and Ansari (25), the BSP candidate from Ghosi assembly constituency in Mau is at the peak of his campaign. But more than a candidate–inarguably youngest to be fielded by any political party in this UP assembly election–Abbas is the son of gangster-turned-politician  , who, while still lodged in jail, is contesting from the neighboring constituency of Mau Sadar. 
 
 Even as the shadow of a gangster father looms over him, Abbas, a management graduate and a national level shooting champion, is in a hurry to get into the shoes of a ‘neta’. “Ek baar aapan ladka ko vote diyo…(vote this time for your son),” Abbas exhorts in a typical local dialect, even as one of his accomplices pulls out a calendar bearing a photograph of BSP chief Mayawati and hands it over to Naina.
 
 Bemused, the woman responds: “Humka kachhu na chahi bhaiyya... hum logan ka koi kuch nahi kari raha ab tak…(I don't need anything…nobody has done anything for us),” she pleads. Abbas listens patiently and then bows to her. “Vote na diyo...aashirwad to diyo Chachi.. (Don’t vote but at least bless me),” he says, before walking away to a waiting cavalcade of SUVs parked in the sunbaked stretches that snake through swathes of mustard fields.
 
 The cars, bearing BSP flags and blaring out a party song moves from one village to another. And each time, Abbas darts out of his SUV to meet people, poses for a selfie with youngsters and even hugs children.
 
 The Ghosi assembly constituency, comprising as many as 181 small and big villages, has seen a public representative of either BJP or BSP since 1993. Fagu Chauhan, who won the seat as BJP candidate in 1993 and 1996, switched to Mayawati’s camp and won the seat in 2002 and then in 2007 on BSP ticket. He lost the seat in 2012 to SP’s Sudhakar Singh. Mukhtar had then, as a candidate of Quami Ekta Dal–now merged with BSP–had contested from both Mau and Ghosi. He won Mau but was relegated to third position in Ghosi.
 
 This time, Sudhakar is in the fray to get re-elected as SP candidate, while Chauhan is contesting on a BJP ticket. Not surprisingly, Abbas keeps hitting at both Sudhakar and Chauhan. “Bhaiyya aap Sudhakar Chacha aur Fagu Chacha to dekh liye ho…hum unka jaise nahi hain…koi commission na laihein…jo paisa aayi u yahin laga dehiyein… (You have seen Sudhakar uncle and Fagu uncle…I am not like them…I will not take any commission.. whatever funds arrive would be put into development of the area),’’ he tells a group of men in village Fatehpur Dulhara. “My father has been four times MLA from Mau. He must have done something to win the seat so many times. Time has now come for Ghosi to see development,’’ Abbas tells TOI.
 
 The Ghosi assembly constituency is actually a complex mix of Dalits, Muslims and Most Backward Caste (MBC). While Dalits account for nearly 18% of the total population, Muslims are around 20%. The constituency, otherwise, is dominated by non-Yadav OBC, essentially Rajbhars. While BSP is banking on a general projection of Dalits-Muslims consolidation, the SP and BJP is relying completely on local factors.
 
 
