ALAPPUZHA: The chicken merchants in the state have decided to go on indefinite agitation from Monday following the meeting between finance minister T M   and   has failed to reach a consensus.

 The meeting failed following the chicken merchants refused to accept the demand of the finance minister to sell the chicken for Rs 87 per kg.
 
 Speaking to newsmen after the meeting, the finance minister said the chicken merchants are challenging the state government by increasing the price of chickens. "But the government will not go back from its stand and if the chicken merchants are not ready to follow the government's demand, the people of the state will come against them," he said.
  
 At the same time, chicken merchants said that they are not able to sell chicken for Rs 87 and they can sell only for Rs 100. "We have already reduced Rs 18 in chicken price. We are not arrogant. We are doing this business for our daily bread. We are getting chicken from   for Rs 87. Then how we can sell it for the same price. We have even agreed to sell chicken for Rs 100. But the finance minister refused to accept it. So we are going for indefinite agitation from Monday," said the chicken merchants.
 
 Isaac said the government cannot accept chicken traders arrogant attitude. "The people should get the chicken at lowest price as the tax on the chicken went down with the implementation of GST. They augmented the price of chicken when the tax on chicken went down by 14.5 percent. They are challenging both the state government and people. They have hiked the price of chicken by 40 percent. The chicken traders are saying they have hiked the price for the poultry farmers. But they do not want to interfere in the matters of poultry farmers. The state government will protect the poultry farmers," said Isaac.
 
 "The current stand of the chicken farmers is for supporting the large scale chicken importers of the state. They are expert in evading taxes. The state government will set up a special task force for inspecting their tax evasion and will take strict action against the tax evaders if the situation demands" said Isaac.
 
 The federation state general secretary   said the present stand of the state government will hamper the chicken industry of the state. "As many as 40,000 chicken shops are functioning providing employment to 10 lakh people in the state. At least 22 lakh kg chicken are being daily sold in the state," said Nazeer.
 
