BENGALURU: A 79-year-old  ,  , got his faulty hearty valve replaced at a city hospital without a drop of blood being shed. He underwent a minimally invasive procedure to fix his narrow aortic valve.

 Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) is a boon for   as open heart surgery is considered risky, said Dr Ranjan Shetty, HoD, department of cardiology,  .“Risk assessment has to be done for geriatric patients before taking up any action plan. In Shenoy's case, he suffered from blocks in the coronary artery (for which three stents were inserted) and other complications, along with the problem in the valve. We went for TAVR considering the high risk involved,“ he said.
 
 Shenoy, who underwent the procedure in February, said: “Given the multiple heart complications at my age, open heart surgery may not have been viable. Medical science has advanced to such an extent that surgeries can be customized as per your ailment and age.“
 
 Another patient, aged 89, underwent TAVR recently at Narayana Health. “He suffered from breathlessness and could not walk. Given his age constraints, we had to conduct TAVR to improve his quality of life.It's technically challenging for the surgeon and beneficial for the patient,“ said Dr Sanjay Mehrotra, senior consultant cardiologist, Narayana Health.
 
 As many as 40 people have undergone the procedure -which costs Rs 16-22 lakh -at Narayana Health till date. A Thailand-based heart valve manufacturer and Manipal Hospital have now tied up for a pilot project under which patients can undergo TAVR for Rs 2.5-3 lakh each.
 
 “The procedure is well-known in the US and is slowly catching up in India. As the valve has to be import ed, it makes the procedure very expensive and we haven't done it yet,“ said Dr C N Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research.
 
 Dr Yogesh Kothari, director, Heart Failure & Arrhythmia Clinic,  , conducted the procedure on a 62-year-old female patient. “Due to diabetes and hypertension, and severe ventricular dysfunction (weak pumping of heart), she was deemed unfit for an open heart surgery,“ he said.
 
