CHENNAI: Election Commission finds itself in a piquant situation in RK Nagar constituency, election to which is scheduled for April 12. The number of candidates after scrutiny of nominations is 82, which is higher than the permitted 63 candidates in EVMs. One slot will have to be left for the   option. 

 As per the poll panel website, there are 11 dummy candidates of all main parties who will withdraw on Monday. That still leaves an excess of nine candidates, who will have to withdraw to enable the   to use EVMs, failing which the poll panel would have to resort to the conventional method of ballot papers.
 
 This would create logistical problems for the EC as all election staff members have been trained in the use of the conventional M2-type EVMs, not ballot papers nor the latest M3-type machines. Besides the seven main candidates, some fringe parties and 57 independents are in the fray.
 
 The final number of candidates will be known at 3pm on Monday when the withdrawal of candidates ends. "If we are still left with more than 63 candidates then we will have to approach the Election Commission for options," said a senior election officer in R K Nagar, seeking anonymity.
 
 Some political parties are known to field independents with similar names of some key candidates to cause confusion among voters.
 
 "Even as early as 2009, the Election Commission had a proposal to have new EVMs which can accommodate more number of candidates. This new machine is called the M3 EVM. It has more additional features and can also accommodate candidates beyond 63," former chief election commissioner N Gopalaswamy told TOI. The plan was to have a machine that could accommodate 128 names, he said.
 
 The M3-type of EVMs is in the initial stages of preparation. The EC is planning to replace all M2-type of EVMs with M3 ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. "We have only a limited number of M3-type EVMs. Since it is only a bypoll, we can deploy these advanced machines in R K Nagar," said another senior election officer.
 
 RK Nagar has earned the tag of a prestigious seat after former chief minister   contested in a bypoll in 2015 and again in the 2016 assembly election. Her death in December last year has caused yet another election in this constituency.
 
  has the national record of fielding the maximum number of candidates in an assembly constituency. In the 1996 assembly election, 1,033 candidates were in the fray for the Modakurichi constituency in Erode district. DMK candidate   won from the constituency.
 
 
 
 
