 Rampur: After Shivpal Yadav announced the formation of a new party, Muslim MLAs of the Samajwadi Party told TOI that the move will lead to division of minority votes. They said that they were loyal to Akhilesh Yadav and “the image of Shivpal is not good among Muslims”.   SP MLA from Thakurdwara assembly seat of Moradabad district, Nawab Jan Khan said, "We will remain loyal to Akhilesh Yadav and we will not leave him at this crucial stage. The announcement of Samajwadi Secular Morcha by Shivpal is only to confuse the Muslim supporters of SP. One does not become secular by using the term. Everybody is well aware about the role of Shivpal in the past assembly elections. SP will not be divided and its MLAs won’t join Shivpal.”    Meanwhile, SP leader Azam Khan said he was not aware about Shivpal’s announcement and nobody from the party had contacted him about it.     Mohammad Faheem, SP MLA from Bilari assembly seat, said, “After Shivpal’s announcement about the new organization, we are waiting for Azam Khan’s decision. Muslims of UP do not directly support SP, but only Azam Khan. Wherever he goes, his Muslim supporters will follow. At this crucial stage, when we are fighting right-wing elements, Shivpal’s announcement has hurt the sentiments of Muslim leaders and workers of the SP.”    “We will appeal to Shivpal to take his decision back and support Azam Khan and Akhilesh,” Faheem added.    Haji Iqram Qureshi, SP MLA from Moradabad (rural) constituency said, “Muslims will suffer if there is division in the SP at this crucial stage. We have appealed to Shivpal Yadav to take back his decision and reunite with Akhilesh. Otherwise, the future of Muslims will not be secure in the state.”    Former minister and six-term MLA from Sambhal, Iqbal Mehmood, said, “Netaji has not announced any new party or front. Itr is Shivpal’s deicison and we have rejected it outright. We are heading to Lucknow to meet with Akhilesh. Shivpal’s image is not good among Muslims, so this ‘secular morcha’ is not going to succeed in wooing the community in UP.”    Azam Khan said, “I am not aware about any new party and nobody from the SP has contacted me over this issue. I feel alone and isolated, and everyone seems to have abandoned me at this stage.”