Life certainly hasn’t been the same for   over the last one year, for in that span of time she not only made her debut ( ), but has done three other films. She will next be seen in  , alongside actors like  , Vijay Raghavendra, Pranitha and Prakash Belawadi, which is something that she is thrilled about. The final year B.Com student didn’t want to enter films before completing her education, but is now happy with her decision, thanks to the plum offers coming her way. She lets us in on more…

 
 
 I have always said that I am very lucky. Being launched by Mahesh Babu sir was a very good platform for me, since I started getting good offers. To work with Shivanna (Shivarajkumar) is a big deal, since my family and I have always watched films of Dr Rajkumar and his children. Mass Leader has such a big star cast that it gave me a lot of exposure. I learnt so much from them.
 
 
 In some of my other films, the way I saw it, it was only about doing my part and sitting around on the set. But things were different with Mass Leader. Everyone knows how energetic and lively Shivanna is; he brings the set alive. Despite being such a big star, he helps each and every actor out. He takes it up as his responsibility to make the atmosphere on the set pleasant and make the other actors feel comfortable. I learnt from him that you not only do your part, but also help others and give them a boost of energy. Shivanna respects everyone on the set, regardless of their position; everyone receives the same love and respect from him. And that made the relationship between everyone very nice. My entry into the film is during a family portion, and the way everyone was on set, it really did feel like a family.
 
 
 
 My character’s name is Shreya and she is Shivanna’s character’s sister. She is a sweet, simple, college-going girl, who has a parallel love track as well. Since I am in college in real life, it was not hard for me to put myself in her shoes.
 
 
 I am doing age-appropriate roles, and not everyone can get to do roles like this. As I age, my graph will grow. I don’t mind playing a college-going girl. While I may portray someone who is still studying, her characteristics will differ — she could be a simple girl or someone who is bold and feisty. I feel that playing a young girl is always an advantage for a heroine as I will get more time to perform and prepare for bigger roles.
 
 
 
 It was very hard. There was heavy snowfall on the first day of shoot itself — we were told that it hadn’t snowed like that in 20 years. We were shooting in -15 and -16 degrees, and despite wearing 3-4 socks and big boots, my legs would freeze. The song shoot was the hardest, since I had to wear sleeveless and off-shoulder gowns, while the hero ( ) got to keep himself warm with bomber jackets. I used to fight with the producer (Tarun Shivappa) about that (laughs). But it was a fun 12 days there.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) My year’s been pretty crazy. I have been running around and been busy, but that is how I always want it to be. I don’t want to sit at home doing nothing. I like to work and want to learn more from each movie and its team. Balancing college and shoots is hard, but I have figured out a way. As it turns out, most of my shoot schedules are during internal or main exams, and I need 10-15 days off at a go. I take permission from teachers for shoots and my college has been quite cooperative. Also, I am good academically. My marks have been hit a little — I am not getting distinction, but I am managing to secure first class. So, I am coping.
 
 
 
 None. My parents want me to do well in films. Initially, when I got acting offers, I was hesitant, as I wanted to complete my education first. But they explained that I was getting good opportunities, and I realized that they were too good to refuse. When I was offered the role in Mass Leader, I was unsure about essaying a sister’s role, and it was my parents who convinced me to listen to the story first and then make up my mind. I then found out that my character has a lot of importance, and being Shivanna’s sister onscreen is always a good thing for a young actor. 
 
 
