AMRITSAR:   by   (AAP) is apparently going to cost it yet another face from its 25-member  . After   from Jalandhar quit AAP a fortnight back over being denied party ticket, one of the party’s founding member and a part of its top body   went public with his displeasure in Amritsar on Thursday. 

 His reaction came within hours of   Waraich announcing the names of Sarabjot Singh Dhanjal, Manish Aggarwal and Rajinder Kumar from Amritsar East, Amritsar North and Amritsar Centre constituencies. Though AAP was the first to announce list of its candidates, it took inordinate time to announce its contestants on three constituencies in the city.
 
 Of three picked by the party, Dhanjal, who is going to face either Navjot Singh Sidhu or his wife in Amritsar East, is known AAP volunteer. On the other hand, Aggarwal had joined AAP in October 2016. However, the selection of Rajinder for Amritsar Centre constituency has raised heckles of many in the party, including Talwar. 
 
 Claiming a foul play in ticket distribution, especially in case of Amritsar Centre and Amritsar North, a senior leader of AAP in the city said that Talwar was the main contender for the ticket given to Rajinder.
 
 A visibly annoyed Talwar told TOI, “I don’t know who is Rajinder and when he had joined the party.” He said there was name of former Congress leader Darbari Lal making the rounds for the seat but Rajinder was name totally unheard of locally.
 
 Some local party leaders went to the extent of suggesting that Rajinder and Aggarwal were supporters of Congress candidate from Amritsar Centre O P Soni and BJP’s sitting MLA from Amritsar North Anil Joshi. “There is of course something wrong here and party will suffer if it doesn’t change its decisions,” one of the leaders said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Talwar said he was just trying to “understand the whole thing before taking up the issue with the party chief Arvind Kejriwal”.
 
 From the two other urban seats of the district, AAP has already announced names of Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar and Balwinder Singh Sahota from Amritsar South and Amritsar West.
 
 The Congress too has so far fielded Soni and Raj Kumar Verka as its candidates from Amritsar Centre and Amritsar West constituencies. However, SAD-BJP combine is yet to announce names of their candidates from all the five urban constituencies of Amritsar.
 
