NEW DELHI: The Election Commission may soon give its ruling on whether the disqualification plea against 21   MLAs in Delhi has become infructuous after the   quashed their appointment as parliamentary secretaries last year. 

 The ruling should set the stage for a final pronouncement on whether the appointments violated the office of profit law and if they are to be disqualified — a decision that will precipitate a mini assembly election in Delhi.
 
 “The commission has finished hearing the arguments of both sides on the limited question of whether the disqualification case against the 21 AAP MLAs stands in the wake of Delhi HC order. The order has been reserved. The   will examine the submissions and give its ruling in due course,” an EC functionary told TOI on Monday. 
 
 The AAP MLAs have asked the disqualification case to be dropped as their appointment was set aside by the HC. But the petitioner, lawyer Prashant Patel, insists that as the 21 MLAs had enjoyed perks and benefits during the time they held the office of parliamentary secretaries, the HC order had no bearing on his disqualification prayer.
 
 Sources said once the EC decides on whether the disqualification proceedings should continue, further course of action will be decided in accordance with the verdict. If the EC decides that the Delhi high court order has rendered the disqualification plea infructuous, the case will end there. However, if it accepts Bhushan's argument, the EC will have to take a call whether a further hearing is needed on the “office of profit” issue.
 
 The EC order will bring the commission closer to a final verdict on the disqualification plea and has further surcharged the already feverish political atmosphere in Delhi where an assembly bypoll and municipal elections are due on April 9 and 23 respectively. 
 
 AAP faces a stiff political test after its failure to emerge the third alternative in Punjab as well as it's no-show in Goa. An adverse ruling in the parliamentary secretaries case will come as another setback to the ruling party in Delhi, even though it will not affect its majority in the assembly.
 
 AAP’s rivals BJP and  , besides AAP rebel outfit   will hope to register a strong showing even though Arvind Kejriwal’s outfit is seen to have substantial support in the poorer segments of the capital's population.
 
 
