Delhi’s reputation as the crime capital is often reflected on TV as well and now another crime show shot in Delhi joins the list.

 Stories from the capital often find their way to both films and television, but in the last few years, crime stories and social issues from NCR are increasingly being shown on the small screen. The latest show to join the list is ' ', which is shot mostly in Delhi, and deals with the issue of women’s safety. 
 
 The trend started after the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape, after which 'Crime Patrol' did a special episode on it. The episode was to air in January 2013, but after objections from the NGO Bhartiya Stree Shakti, the telecast was rescheduled to September 2013. Following this episode, other crime-based shows aired tracks inspired by the case. 
 
  
  ' ' – a show covering topics such as suicide, violence against women and psychological disorders was launched at   (BCCL)
 
 Another show, 'Code Red', that deals with issues like suicide, violence against women and psychological disorders, was launched in Delhi with a special panel discussion in Hindu College. The discussion covered topics like child molestation and gender inequality, and was attended by retired IPS officer  . A few years ago, TV show 'Gumrah', that featured real stories of juvenile crime, had an episode on the MMS scandal in which students of a reputed Delhi school were involved.
 
 
 Though the new show, 'Ghulaam', seems like another story highlighting crime in NCR, makers and writer of the show maintain that “it is based in a fictitious village called Berahampur”. The name of the village, however, sounds similar to a village near Gurgaon, called Behrampur. 
 According to the storyline, all brides in the village are either kidnapped or bought from other states, because no family wants to willingly get their daughter married here.  , writer of the show, says, “We titled it Berahampur because it is a place with only sufferings, and no sympathy for anyone. It is a fictional place, but since we needed some reference for costumes, dialect, etc, we have shown that this village is near Haryana. This place is known as the crime capital and ‘manufactures’ criminals. Young boys are trained to be goons, and later supplied to different political parties. This place has its own laws and is a safe haven for criminals. Yahan dulhan doli mein nahin, bore mein laayi jaati hai.”
 
  
  A still from 'Ghulaam', a Haryana-based show that highlights   against women in the NCR. Some scenes were shot in Delhi recently, near the AIIMS flyover (BCCL)
 
 Qaazi adds, “In one scene, a girl is kidnapped from a train when she gets up in the night to go to the washroom while the train is waiting at a station. We keep hearing of such incidents. In a city like Delhi, parents often tell their daughters to return home by 7pm. These are things that all of us are aware of, and that’s what led to the conception of the show. The show is not based on any particular case or incident, but a result of recurrent stories that we keep reading and on the issue of women’s safety.” Some important parts of the show were also shot at the AIIMS flyover. 
 
 
