 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Taking a story and giving it a seductive cinematic spin is a tough task. There are several little and finer nuances that make movie watching an interesting and a cherishable memory. Be it classic gangster films, musical dramas, or the typical romantic comedy-drama,   and   is one of the main factors that can either make or break a film. Styling movie actors is not just making them wear fabulous clothes, but making the actors wear clothes keeping in mind the finer details of the script, the scene, background and time of the day which in turn depicts the situations that the characters are in. With so many Gujarati movies being churned out keeping us all entertained, we ask   and   designers who are putting their heart and soul to make every character stand out in each and every frame.
 
 
 
 
 Gone are the days when Gujarati film industry only portrayed village belle and her hero wearing the traditional chaniya choli and kediyu-dhoti. With story lines getting layered, the costume part of the film has gained significance, say costume designer Paurvi Shah who has worked on several Gujarati movies and most recently Shubh Aarambh. “The industry has certainly evolved in terms of scripts but when it comes to costume and styling, there’s still a lot to explore and experiment,” says Paurvi.
 
 “The scope is huge because this industry is always on the lookout for new people who can give a fresh spin to the characters,” says Dhanashree Salekar, who has done many Marathi projects and was the costume and styling incharge for the upcoming movie, Duniyadaari, where the actors have spotted the 80s look. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 While the industry itself is in a nascent stage, sourcing clothes and accessories in limited budget is the biggest challenge. Paurvi adds, “Although budget has 
 always been an issue, it becomes more difficult when there’s barter system involved and there’s just one brand/shop from where you have to buy clothes for all the characters for all their scenes. This is when we ask our inner friend circle, our own family members and we go through our own personal closets to enhance the look and make the actors more relatable. Of course, for small nicks and knacks I do have a tailor with me on the sets. Getting a song sequence right is a challenge.” 
 
 “Sourcing is difficult in Ahmedabad, as the options in clothing and accessories are limited. That's when your own personal contacts in styling field comes handy, and also your personal collection,” says Falguni Patel, who handled the costume and styling department for Passport. “But the biggest challenge is the attitude of several filmmakers. At times breaking their pre-conceived notions about dress and styling can get really tough. As a stylist, we have to make sure that the character wears clothes which is in accordance with the scene, the aesthetics, colour palette of the surrounding and time of the day.”
 
 “The biggest challenge I have faced is convincing actors to wear certain kind of clothes. The actors need to be more open about wearing clothes that suits their characters and stop focusing on their personal style statement,” shares Shirali Patel who has done two Gujarati projects, Colorbaaz and Dhantya Open.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “It is always like walking on a tight rope when scouting clothes, accessories and even footwear. But for all the hard work we put in, our monetary remuneration doesn't really speak much. Also with so many award ceremonies coming up, it's sad there isn't a single category that highlights our work and gives us any recognition. We do get credits in the movie, but a more monetary gains and awards will inspire us,” asserts Paurvi.
 
 
 
 Many might have their favourites when it comes to dress either a male or a female characters, but for these stylists, bringing out the character alive is important. “Both can be equally exciting and challenging. Of course women have more options but dressing men can be fun too. At the end, it all boils down to how each 
 character stands out in every scene,” says Dhanashree.
 
 
 
 With photo-sharing and social network sites becoming popular, showing your work on these platforms certainly is a great push, suggest stylists Shirali and Falguni. While many Bollywood actors and actresses constantly update their social media handles with their pictures giving credits to their stylists, hair and makeup artists, here it’s just a beginning. 
 
 Slowly,   is picking up the threads and style too. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
