AHMEDABAD: The husband of former minister and prime accused in the   massacre case, Maya Kodnani, deposed before a special court on Friday, saying that his gynaecologist wife was busy on February 28, 2002 and did not go to the site of the rioting.

 Appearing as a defence witness, Dr   told the SIT court that he was in constant touch with his wife over her mobile phone. He asserted that Maya attended the session of the state assembly in Gandhinagar in the morning, from there she went to the Sola Civil Hospital where the bodies of the Godhra train-burning victims were brought.
 
 The witness told the court that from Sola Civil Hospital, Maya went directly to her hospital – Shivam Maternity & Surgical Nursing Home at Saijpur Tower. He said Maya returned home from the hospital at 5pm. She had to rush to the hospital to attend to a patient named Ilaben, who was in labour. Because Maya’s working partner Dr Dhaval Shah could not reach the hospital, Maya had to get there and help the woman deliver the baby. He even furnished a birth certificate issued by  , for the boy born at her hospital.
 
 Dr Kodnani asserted that from her hospital, Maya directly went home, to Om Tower in Shahibaug and she spent rest of the day talking to the family and watching TV. She also talked on phone with many people including two-three police officers.
 
 During his cross-examination by the prosecution, the witness revealed that Maya’s hospital did not maintain records of cash transactions and there was no practice of issuing receipts against payment from patients. They maintained an account book and noted daily collections. He said the name of Ilaben may not be mentioned in the book.
 
 The witness also said that there was just an oral agreement with   that he would be a working partner in the clinic due Maya’s busy schedule as a legislator. He denied the prosecution’s question that it was Dr Shah who used to run the clinic full-time and even the registration of machinery under PNDT Act was in Dr Shah’s name.
 
 Further questioning of Dr Kodnani will take place on Monday, when he is expected to supply account books and documents pertaining to the car Maya used on February 28, 2002.
 
 Maya claimed this alibi during the trial in the Naroda Patia massacre, but the special court convicted her to 28-year jail term, terming her the lynchpin of the massacre.
 
