KOLKATA/ DARJEELING: The hills have done what the plains have failed to achieve — ban smoking in public. On Thursday, the district administration declared Darjeeling as the first  . The famous mall has been a no-smoking zone for a few years now. 

 While the prohibition has been in force since 2003, not a single district has been able to achieve the feat so far. Four districts, however, have taken an initiative to prevent smokers from lighting up indiscriminately.
 
 In Kolkata, not a single conviction has happened so far. But since smoking was banned in public places, the Darjeeling administration has penalized 105 people found violating the law that came into effect in the three hills sub-divisions on August 15, 2016.
 
 “We have got positive response from people. There will be cases when someone will not heed the law. But, we are trying to deal with it in the best possible way. So far, 105 people have been fined Rs 200 each for violating the ban,” said Darjeeling DM Anurag Srivastava.
 
 The declaration has been made on the basis of a third-party assessment conducted by MANT — an NGO — from January 17 to 21, based on the guidelines developed by Johns Hopkins University, the International Union against   and Lung Disease and the   of the US.
 
 Given the enormity of implementing the law, the administration has mooted the idea of adoption of areas by different organizations and schools. “We cannot be everywhere. So we are in talks with various schools and organizations to convince them to adopt areas where they will create awareness and convince people about the dangers of smoking,” said Srivastava.
 
 While this was the right approach, the stress should be on banning smoking in public, felt Nirmalya Mukherjee, director, MANT. “A blanket ban is neither possible nor has the desired effect. Make tobacco scarce and ban use in public. Darjeeling has done that effectively,” said Mukherjee. 
 
 Even though Darjeeling has banished smoking in public, the queen of hills is yet to prohibit sale of tobacco products near schools, colleges and government office premises, he pointed out. “This is a serious issue since it’s been observed that most take to smoking at the age of 17. According to a study, if you can prevent a youngster from getting hooked to cigarettes at 17, his chances of taking to the addiction later will be 84% less,” Mukherjee added.
 
