In a first, a teerth purohit (pilgrim priest) is contesting elections from Mirzapur's Sadar seat. Fielded by  , the candidate   is no less than the party's chief priest. 

 Having performed religious ceremonies for all top guns in BJP, from Lal Krishna Advani to Amit Shah, 58-year-old Mishra is said to have performed special pujas for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure his victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. His importance in the party is evident from the fact that he was a special invitee at the PM's swearing in ceremony. 
 
 The Vidhan Sabha ticket is a return gift from the 'jajmaan' (clients) including home minister Rajnath Singh, Uma Bharati and Amit Shah. Locals feel his presence and popularity in the RSS paid off. "I have been associated with the shakha since 1977," said Mishra.
 
  But the fifth generation Brahmin panda claimed he entered poll waters for the sake of Mirzapur. "Vindhyachal is the core of all positive energies in the world but it doesn't seem to benefit from it. Mirzapur has lagged behind badly in the race for development because of regional parties' indifference. I promise to give the city its long pending due," Mishra told TOI. 
 
 He claimed he had readied a roadmap for Mirzapur's development. "The roads in the city are in a bad state which affects public life and leaves a bad impression on the tourists. Given a chance, I shall get new roads built. Completion of the Bhitauli bridge and revival of the brass industry subsequent priorities. I shall also try to get Vindhyachal an official tourist destination status," he said. 
 
 Mishra has been challenged by sitting Samajwadi Party MLA Kailash Chaurasia and BSP's Parvez Khan. Locals feel there is a triangular fight on the seat.
 
  "Ratnakar may have to face difficulties from enemies within the party. Actually, the name of BJP candidate Manoj Jaiswal who lost in 2012 Vidhan Sabha polls was doing the rounds before the official announcement for Mishra came in. So, some workers are demoralised. Besides, he is a first-timer," said Shubh Kumar, a school teacher. 
 
 Kailash is known for his people's connect despite strong anti-incumbency. Parvez Khan, popular for his clean image, may upset caste-religion equations on the seat which can make things difficult for Mishra. As per district election office, there are 3.35 lakh voters on the Sadar seat. 
 
 In 2012, SP won the constituency by 22,299 votes during assembly elections. Chaurasiya from SP bagged 69,099 votes followed by Rang Nath Mishra of BSP who got 46,800 votes. The voter turnout was 56.48%.
 
