HYDERABAD: The liquor business in Telangana is slowly going dry . Thanks to the   order banning serving of liquor within a 500-meter radius of National Highways (NH), many traders are not willing to enter the business, fearing more government restrictions.

 This was confirmed when Telangana government invited applications for setting up 145 new bars in the state.The excise department received only 184 applications and for 88 bars in   (GHMC) limits, it received only 110 applications. Most of the bars received a single application while there were no takers from some bars.
 
 The lukewarm response has shocked the excise department, which had actually anticipated more than 4 applications for each bar.
 
 “It seems traders are not willing to invest in new bars and liquor shops in the state.The response to new bars was not very good. The Supreme Court order might be one of the reasons for the present situation,“ Telangana excise commissioner   told STOI.
 
 On December 15, 2016, the   had ordered all establishments selling liquor within 500 metres of highways to relocate and told the state governments not to renew the licences of those located within 500 meters. In Telangana, more than 150 bars and about 225 liquor shops have been identified for the relocation.After the SC extended the de adline for Telangana and   till September 2017, both the states are now struggling hard to retain the outlets.
 
 To comply with the apex court order, the Telangana government invited applications for setting up new bars that will come up beyond 500 meters of the National Highways. But the response it has received has shocked the officials who are busy planning the total shift of liquor outlets by this September.
 
 The term of the present licences will end in September and the excise department has prepared a detailed plan to call for applications for new liquor outlets located beyond 500 meters from the NHs. However, their plans have not been well received by bar owners and liquor traders who argue that they would lose the locational advantage.
 
 “Who will come to the back streets to have a drink after parking their vehicle on the main road. The new rule will make this business unviable and the demand will dip,“ said an office bearer of the Telangana Wine Dealers Association, which is waiting for the government decision to de-notify the main roads in cities from being part of the National Highways.
 
