CHENNAI: While the   construction expected to be completed by September 2018 is said to be going as per schedule despite delays,   woes persist with battered roads and congestion giving a a tough time to users of three arterial roads in Velachery.

 Commuters using public transport complain about the time taken to cover a stretch as small as that from   to  . While work on the second flyover also began last year, officials say their talks with the transport department to streamline bus traffic by shifting the bus terminus temporarily did not fructify.
 
 Officials from the state highway said 40% of work on the project has been finished and traffic diversions were created to smoothen the flow of traffic, which has been considerably better when compared to earlier days.
 
 “The peak-hour congestion that existed few years back especially on the Velachery bypass road is no longer there. We have been trying to work with the transport department to divert the movement of buses. The options given were to shift the Velachery bus terminus near MRTS station or near Chennai Silks but the department is still considering the options,” said an official.
 
 Buses passing from Velachery Bypass Road onto Taramani Road take a detour using   and remain a major reason for congestion on 100 feet road and the junction. The LIC Colony Road remains in pathetic condition and neglect has damaged the road further, adding to the numerous Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses that use it on a daily basis.
 
 “It is absolutely difficult to travel on this route. It takes over half an hour just to cross the Vijayanagar junction and reach SRP Tools during office hours,” said K Reshmi, a resident of Madipakkam.
 
 Work on the flyovers is being done in two phases. Work on the first flyover that connects Velachery Bypass Road to Velachery began in December 2015. Work started this year on the flyover that connects Taramani Road to Velachery Bypass Road.
 
 The traffic diversions created to ease work on the flyovers has created hassles for commuters using public transport. Auto drivers complain that despite the diversion, traffic is horrible.
 
 “A trip from Vijayanagar to Tansi Nagar and back with all the detours takes around one hour during the peak timings. For a Rs 50 trip, it is too much of a hassle,” said D Nagarajan, an auto driver. “It is worse during rains. We expect the work to finish sooner as these stretches are in ruins.”
 
 Highways officials said issues like land acquisition near Vijayanagar junction, changing of flyover design due to Metro water pipeline near bypass road were responsible for some delay in the project.
 
