PANAJI: With less than a month left for   on February 4, the   (ECI) is determined to crack the whip on   and  . The   is keeping a close watch on election-related expenditure and has stipulated that aside from opening a separate bank account for election expenditure, each candidate is required to submit a statement of all expenses incurred on rallies and meetings every three days. The candidates can either do it individually or opt to have the party file the details on their behalf.

 Given the possibility that alternate bank accounts can also be used to distribute freebies, the ECI has brought in expenditure observers and GPS-monitored flying squads to track candidate-expenditure.
 
 “There are assistant expenditure observers who will be keeping an eye on the expenditure. We have asked for and are expecting around eight election expenditure observers and 12 general observers,” chief electoral officer and secretary for elections Kunal said.
 
 Election observers will also be accompanying candidates during door-to-door campaigns and election rallies. “They have to take permission for campaign meetings or rallies at least 72 hours in advance,” he added.
 
 The flying squads and static surveillance teams have been tasked with making rounds of each constituency to assess and prevent distribution of money or liquor. “The squad comprises police officials, an official with magisterial powers and a videographer to record critical events,” joint chief electoral officer Narayan Navti said.
 
 The office of the chief electoral officer has also prepared a special rate chart for districts which lists various commodities and their prices. These rates have been finalized in consultation with competent authorities and will be considered as standard rates whenever any political party or candidate cites any expenditure.
 
 “All reports will be tallied with existing rates. A shadow account register will be maintained by every returning officer to keep an account of all the expenditure that a candidate fails to own up to,” Navti said.
 
 ECI has also capped expenditure at Rs 20 lakh per candidate and made it mandatory for payments of Rs 20,000 and above to be made via cheques.
 
