THANE: With the number of water borne as well as vector borne diseases including swine flu, dengue, malaria and leptospirosis on the rise over the past few weeks, city academicians have now begun organising informative   about the preventions and symptoms of these illnesses for their students.

 Schools have been over protective after a 10-year-old student succumbed to swine flu last year. 
 
 Snehalata Dev, principal of Mumbra’s Symbiosis High School said, “This is the season which sees the most number of students falling ill as the water and air is filled with viruses and parasites.   has a lot of sanitation and hygiene related issues which could helps the growth and spread of these viruses and parasites. This is why our teachers have been discussing the precautions to be taken against the common   illnesses including malaria, dengue, swine flu, etc with the students.”
 
 “From controlling their eating habits including eating street food and junk food to keeping their areas   and flowers pots free of stagnant water which attracts mosquitoes, we have had lengthy discussions and workshops for our students to make them aware of the illnesses about them. We also informed them about the symptoms of these illnesses ranging from stomach aches to long bouts of fever and fatigue, so that they can seek immediate medical attention,” added Ranjini Krishnaswami, principal of Billabong international School.
 
 Some schools have even taken extra efforts to ensure that their premises as well as staff members are free from these parasites, and thus have tried to provide their students with a safe school setting.
 
 “In the month of May we completed the cleaning and bleaching of all the drains in and around our school. We used termite medicine to keep all these insects at bay and sanitized the entire setting. We also have a doctor, nurse and counsellor on board to keep the health of the staff in check. We instruct our students to wash their hands and dry their feet first after entering the school. Our teachers keep remindin gthe students to stay clean,” said Simmi Juneja, principals of DAV school.
 
