BENGALURU: Tipplers hoping to enjoy their drink for a lower price this summer will find themselves in low spirits. For, contrary to expectations, prices of booze haven’t come down. And this is because most pubs in the city aren’t passing the benefit of tax removal on to customers, though they are bound to do so according to the government’s new policy.

 Expectation was that booze would get cheaper from April 1 at pubs, bars and restaurants. In his budget speech last month, chief minister Siddaramaiah had announced that 5.5 % value added tax (VAT) on drinks, including beer, feni, wine and hard liquor would be removed from the start of the new financial year. “Going by the budget announcement, liquor should have been cheaper at pubs as pub owners aren’t supposed to collect   from customers. However, prices haven’t come down at some pubs which continue to sell liquor at old price, although there’s no VAT component in the bill,” said B T Manohar, taxation committee chairman of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI).
 
 As April set in, pub-goers hit their favourite joints hoping to grab their chosen drink for cheaper rates. But they were in for a rude shock instead. In fact, some pubs have hiked prices. A pub in the central business district (CBD), with a microbrewery, which was selling beer in the range of Rs 160 to Rs 220, has jacked up its prices (now Rs 180 to Rs 275). “Now we are confused. Is it the government that is telling a lie? Or is the pubs which are misleading us? ”wondered Nivedita Gowda, a pub goer.
 
 Pub owners’ argument is that their cost of purchase has gone up as the government has hiked additional excise duty (AED) on liquor, though it has removed VAT. The AED has been hiked in the range of 6% to 16 % depending on the slab under which the purchaser is procuring liquor. Pub owners say because of the hiked AED, they are having to pay more to   (KSBCL) from where they lift the stock.
 
 “We don’t see any reason to slash prices. While we aren’t supposed to collect VAT from our customers, we have to pay AED. And, ultimately, it’s the customer who has to bear the extra burden,” said  , general manager of an upscale pub in Indiranagar.
 
 The fact, however, is that pubs with microbreweries don’t buy beer from KSBCL, and brew fresh beer on their own. Yet, they too are selling beer for higher prices. Also, the general perception was that liquor would be particularly cheaper at pubs compared to retail outlets as the hike in AED would affect retail sales the most.
 
 However, there are a few pubs that have actually slashed rates.  , managing director of a popular pub chain, said prices have been reduced at his pubs from April 1, in keeping with the government’s move to do away with VAT. “It’s proper to pass on the benefit to the customers, and we have reduced prices accordingly,” said Lokesh.
 
 Department have little say
 
 Excise officials, however, appear helpless as the department has no control over prices of liquor sold at pubs. “Only sales at retail outlets are under our preview. We cannot regulate prices of drinks sold at pubs. They are allowed to sell them over and above MRP as they serve liquor loose and not in bottles,” said A S Murali, excise deputy commissioner.
 
 Even the commercial tax department has lost control over pubs following removal of VAT. “As long as VAT was being levied, the pubs were under our preview. Since there’s no VAT now, we cannot examine their books,” said  , additional commissioner (commercial tax). 
 
