BHOPAL: Facing   of one of the suspects arrested in connection with the   from the state being a member of BJP and its IT cell office bearer, the BJP state unit on Saturday issued a new list of its Yuva Morcha and state IT cell office-bearers claiming the party has no nothing to do with those arrested in ISI spy ring case. The party also congratulated the state police for busting a spy racket.

 BJP state chief   denied said spy racket has exposed Bhagwa Atankvad (saffron terrorism) as most of the suspects arrested were associated to the Saffron party. 
 
 “We have nothing to do with Dhruv Saxena. Absolutely nothing, he was not a member of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). One can take a photo with anybody, a leader or a minister. At this moment, I am standing with you and anybody can click a photo with me. There is no check and no method to find out who is standing beside me,” said Chauhan talking to reporters at the BJP's regional head office when asked about pictures of Dhruv with senior party leaders circulating on social networking sites. 
 
 On the statement given by Dhruv's mother Rajni Saxena that her son was working for BJP, Chauhan said, “Her statement is not true, there was no connection, not at all.” 
 
 BJYM district head Anshul Tiwari has just now released a list of district office-bearers where Dhruv's name is not included. One can collect the list from the party office, he said. 
 
 On intelligence failure by the police and ATS, Chauhan said ATS has done a remarkable job as the team was in touch with the military intelligence and getting inputs on the racket.
 
 “Chief of Army staff was in Bhopal on Friday and we know that Military Intelligence was active in the case too. The Army has resources to track down the terrorists and whatever they had passed on to the ATS was acted upon swiftly and promptly for which we should appreciate the agency and the state police,” he said.
 
 On a query regarding involvement of saffron workers, the BJP chief said that BJP sets its target on anti-nationals and traitors who work against the national interest or for the rival Pakistan. We have also launched a tirade against bandits, dacoits, Maoists and terrorists too. 
 
 Supporting Nandkumar's statement, BJYM state head Akhilesh Pandey also claimed that morcha had released a statement denying any involvement with Dhruv Saxena. “Rajesh and Anshul Bhadoria are IT cell in charge and they have denied that Dhruv was a member of the cell,” clarified Pandey. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh government is also trying to find out how come Dhruv Saxena managed to get a picture clicked with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during election meetings in 2014 Lok Sabha polls. It was alleged that besides, Dhruv, two more suspects Jitendra Thakur and Mohit Agrawal have BJP connections in Gwalior and Bhopal. Thakur is said to be brother-in-law of a corporator in Gwalior while Agrawal is believed to be close to former chief minister and BJP veteran Babulal Gaur. 
 
