

  
 
 I come from an agricultural family from the village of   in  , close to Thiruchengode. But don’t imagine anything like the green nanjai (wet) lands of Thanjavur. This was dry land that depended on weather for its fertility. If it rained we had crops, if not we managed with the cattle. It was a question of survival. My father decided once to open a goli soda shop. He would make and sell the soda to seths and small shops. There was a talkie in the village, of the kind you find in such places. We would also sell ‘colour’ soda to moviegoers and finally my father opened a little shop at the theatre. 
 
 The shop ran for around seven years and from the time I was in Class VII to degree college, I would work in it. It was my job to hawk the soda inside the theatre after I returned from school. It was here that I became familiar with theatre life. I also became friends with the boys who did small jobs at talkies, selling murukku, mixture, egg bonda. They became characters in my book. I am concerned about the rapid urbanisation of our villages and it was important for me to capture the world that I inhabited 20 years ago and exists no longer.
 
  
 
 There are very few imaginary characters in my book. I draw all of them from my life. Seasons of the Palm is based on the first 15 years of my life and describes the place I grew up and the lives people led here. We dealt a lot with goats and cattle. I wanted to bring that alive for readers. There are no villains or heroes in my books because people are like that, life isn’t cut and dried and a lot of what we do depends on circumstances.
 
  
 
 If you could see the lives of people like us, we were deeply engaged with nature. The book has no descriptions of houses, interiors or exteriors and that is because our life was outside, in the open spaces. I learned about trees and plants even as I learned about life. In the last 10-15 years all that has changed drastically but in my mind that village lives on forever.
 
  
 
 I don’t think courts can be the answer to this cultural intolerance. Writers can’t write in fear, thinking of the consequences of speaking their mind. There are compulsions that we have to learn to deal with, and I am sure that in coming years we will find writers seeking and finding new ways to express themselves.
 
  
 
 I had this great urge to write poetry in those months and I did that. And in the time when we were dealing with all that trouble I never found time to spend with my family or deal with personal affairs. The timeout allowed me time for myself.
 
  
 
 Yes, I am worried about eliciting adverse reactions to my writings. I have actually shelved some writing projects. I am ?not going to avoid them forever but I will wait for the right form to present them. 
 
  
 
 No, I am not surprised. We have to confront the violence and go beyond it to a point where caste ceases to matter. This violence we see is because people are afraid that the caste system will be destroyed.?They think violence will stop the annihilation of caste but it will only hasten its death.
 
