NAGPUR: Padma Shri recipient and   (ENT) surgeon Dr Milind Kirtane will perform 15 cochlear implants free of cost on children with hearing disabilities, on March 11 and 12 at   (OCHRI).

 The surgeries are part of OCHRI’s project Geeta, which is funded by the Chief Minister’s Health Relief Fund and Tata Trusts.
 
 The programme began in August last year. Since then, altogether 45 such surgeries have been performed in five slots. In the last slot, 10 surgeries took place on December 13. 
 
 With 15 surgeries, the project will reach its final target of 60.
 
 “Soon after completion of the target, the entire programme will be renewed. This time, OCHRI will be targeting to reach out to 100 children with hearing disabilities,” said Dr  , OCHRI director.
 
 Dr Marar told TOI, “OCHRI is likely to enter into another a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Tata, which will continue funding the project. But we will not stop at completion of the project. With Dr Kirtane’s and Tata’s support, we will continue to reach out to more families, which cannot afford the treatment cost.”
 
 Cochlear implants give positive results mostly when they are performed on one-year-old children. If not, it should be performed before three years of age.
 
 “Most of these children come from slums and poor families. This programme is not for people who can manage the cost of treatment, which goes up to Rs7.5 lakh,” Dr Marar said.
 
 As part of the programme, Tata has been contributing Rs5 lakh for each surgery, while Rs2 lakh is taken from the CM’s health relief fund. Rs50,000 is borne by the patient’s side. 
 
 For the surgeries, Dr Kirtane is assisted by ENT surgeons Dr Nandu Kolwadkar and Dr Sameer Chaudhary from OCHRI.
 
 Dr Marar said, “The cost of implants is too high. The only solution is invention of indigenous implants for reduction of cost. Because of Tata’s support, we are able to perform surgeries free of cost. We also tried arranging for donations from other sources, but did not get good response. We are hoping that the cost will reduce in coming years, which may solve a lot of problems and we will be able to cater more children.”
 
