THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   (KCBC) has been   any attempt to raise the   in the state but that hasn't stopped its president archbishop M Soosa Pakiam from seeking 900% enhancement of the wine production quota under his Trivandrum (Latin) Archdiocese.

 Soosa Pakiam has made the request in an application submitted to excise commissioner last week, which was accessed by TOI. The Latin archdiocese has a licence under the Cochin Mass Wine Rules 1117 for producing 250 litres of wine per year for religious purposes. “This is hardly sufficient to meet the needs of the increasing number of parishes and convents. We request you to enhance the quantity from 250 litres to 2,500 litres,“ the application says.
 
 He said the archdiocese has 408 priests -including two bishops, 176 parish priests and assistant parish priests and 130 religious priests -who require “one to two litres of wine every month“ for conducting Mass.
 
 The licence issued by the excise department to the archdiocese in 2006, accessed by TOI, shows it had 230 priests, while going by the latest figures there had been an increase of 77% in the number of priests. Under the present licence, 230 priests can produce only less than one litre of wine per year to cater to believers.
 
 However, the application itself says that one priest requires two litres of wine per month. The fee for such a licence is meagre -Rs 1.25 per litre for a year, which means that only Rs 312.50 has to be paid as gallonage fee.
 
 Interestingly, the archbishop had on March 21 warned the government against any plan to dilute the existing liquor policy.He had warned that his organisation would launch an agitation if the government came out with a wrong policy.
 
 Meanwhile, the Latin Archdiocese said the latest application was submitted to the excise department on the basis of a realistic scenario and it was purely meant for religious purposes. In the wake of increased number of priests after the creation of Neyyattinkara diocese, which is being catered from here, the quantity of wine is too insufficient for religious ceremonies,“ vicar general of Latin archdiocese Eugene H Pereira said. 
 
 As per the latest figures of the excise department, 24 bishops of major bishop houses in the state are holding the special licence to manufacture, issue and transport wine, which has at least thrice alcohol content than beer. These include eight bishops in Ernakulam district, four in  , two each in Thrissur and Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Kasargod districts.
 
 Meanwhile, the Kerala Catholic Bishop's Council has welcomed the SC directive to close down bars functioning on NH KCBC spokesperson Varghese Vallikkatt said the order upheld welfare of people, and public health should be given prominence than revenue loss.
 
