NEW DELHI: If Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party thought they could cash in on the   of the phrase ‘aam aadmi’ (common man) ahead of municipal corporation elections, it hadn’t reckoned with the   State Election Commission. On Wednesday, the panel directed Delhi government and the commissioners of the three corporations to remove or obscure within 48 hours all instances of ‘aam aadmi’ appearing in the names of government amenities and services.

 The poll body also ordered the removal of all posters and banners displayed at government expenditure that carried the pictures of politicians. State Election Commissioner SK Srivastava reasoned that the term ‘aam aadmi’ in government nomenclature such as Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinic, Aam Aadmi Bypass Express Service (a passenger bus service) and other schemes, by being associated with the ruling party, violated the model code of conduct in force in Delhi since March 14. 
 
 The order elated BJP functionaries and Vijender Gupta, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly, smirked, “AAP cannot take political advantage of the public displays now.” But the ruling party retorted sharply, with   Delhi convener Dileep Kumar Pandey saying, “It is shocking that a constitutional body like   is acting as a subordinate of its political masters and is taking orders from them”.
 
 In a letter to Srivastava on Wednesday, AAP asked him whether the poll panel will direct the authorities to also cover ‘Bhartiya’ and ‘janata’ whenever these words appeared on government buildings and billboards, seeing that the two words figured in BJP’s name. Similarly, AAP argued, SEC should also ban the words ‘Indian’ and ‘national’ that appear in the full name of the Congress party.
 
 Following the controversy, Puneet Goel, commissioner of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, who is responsible for implementing the directive, said, “I can comment only after examining the SEC letter.”
 
 Typing errors in the SEC directive, however, created some confusion because the directive seemed to order only the removal of the word ‘aam’ and not the photographs of political leaders. “We will release a correction on Thursday,” Srivastava told TOI.
 
 Last week, Gupta had petitioned SEC on the possibility of the government nomenclatures influencing people to vote for AAP. Gupta had argued that the mass displays of Delhi government schemes denied a level playing field to other political parties in the fray for the  . 
 
 SEC’s directive is not without precedence. In the UP elections, the state poll panel had directed the authorities to obscure the word ‘samajwadi’ emblazoned on the ambulances launched by the Samajwadi Party government. Earlier in the 2012 UP polls, all statues of elephants — the election symbol of Bahujan Samaj Party — were ordered to be covered up.
 
 
