HYDERABAD: Call it an irony if you will but on a day Hyderabad pipped the other metros like Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai to hit the 22nd spot on the   chart, scores of garbage dumps raised a stink across the city, putting a big question mark on the city's standing on the cleanliness ratings. 

 Unattended  , East Maredpally, the lane near University College for Women at Koti and the 100-feet-road near Madhapur stank to high heaven.
 
 Similar scenes were witnessed in the old city area where garbage dumps could be found on Mangalhat Road, Karwan Main Road and on the stretch connecting Puranapul to Ziaguda Mandi. 
 
 Passersby at Karwan Main Road accused the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) of turning a blind eye to the city's garbage woes and putting the health of denizens at risk. 
 
 "The rancid smelling dump can be hazardous for health. The civic body needs to fix the issue immediately," said Vishal Singh Thakur, who was moving around in the lane with his nose covered.
 
 The rotting dump of trash on the much crowded lane near University College for Women is now posing not just a health hazard but also a traffic menace, with shopkeepers complaining about the loss of business due to the dump.
 
 "Many customers are forced to take another route due to the foul smell emanating from the dump, I am neither able to sit inside my shop nor am I able to stand outside my shop due to the rancid smell," rued a shop owner at the market
 
 Commuters travelling on the stretch connecting Puranapul to Zigauda Market, popularly known as Ziaguda Mandi, too complained about the trash that has taking up a stretch of the road, making it difficult to drive. In fact, trash flying into cars and on the faces of two-wheeler motorists on a windy day has now become a common sight on that stretch.
 
 "A plastic carry bag lying in the dump adjacent to the road flew and stuck on my helmet when I was travelling through that stretch. From then I have stopped using that road," said a commuter at Puranapul.
 
 "There are several garbage transfer points on the Puranapul-Ziaguda Mandi stretch, which houses several stalls selling meat, is one of the main reasons for the overflowing trash," said a GHMC official.
 
