GURDASPUR: Senior Akali leader from   and two-time former minister Sucha Singh Langah chose not to surrender before the police on Saturday, one day after he was charged with repeatedly raping a window since 2009.

 Cops sent out teams to look for him at his known whereabouts but returned empty-handed.This is likely to blow up into a major controversy as campaigning for the Gurdaspur   byelection is at its peak.
 
 Gurdaspur SSP H S Bhullar told TOI, "Langah has not been arrested till now and he is on the run. Our teams are carrying out raids at various places to nab him." Political circles were abuzz with the possibility of Langah surrendering at the Gurdaspur district court on Saturday but he did not turn up there.
 
 "We came to know about Langah's possible surrender on Saturday only through the media. We don't have any other information," Bhullar added.
 
 On the basis on a widow's complaint, Langah was on Friday booked for rape, criminal intimidation and cheating. Langah was PWD minister in the SAD government from 1997 to 2002 and agriculture minister from 2007 to 2012. The complainant has alleged that Langah exploited her on the pretext of getting her a job and cheated her by selling off her properties. She has also accused him of extortion.
 
 Sources in the SAD said they were taking legal advice besides working on a damage control plan to reduce the impact of the case on the   candidate for the Gurdaspur byelection, Swaran Singh Salaria. Voting for the byelection will take place on October 11. Local Akali leaders defended Langah and accused the   of political vendetta.Akali Dal MLA from Batala Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal said the hurried manner in which the rape complaint was verified overnight by police had raised several suspicions.
 
 He insisted that Langah was not in contact with him or other Akali leaders.
 
 Congress MLA from   said, "Langah is a very clever person and police will take some time to get hold of him." In a case of disproportionate assets filed against him, Langah had appeared in court after a long time."
 
 
 
 
 SAD spokesperson Daljeet Cheema said, "Langah has resigned from all party posts. We have already said he will surrender before the court. He might not have surrendered because there was holiday in courts on account of Dussehra.
 
