PUNE: Residents of   in Kondhwa are not happy with the   for the area.

 Even though the aim of the move was to reduce traffic congestion, police having trouble enforcing the change and residents find the  .
 
 The city traffic branch had issued an order to start a one-way system in Meethanagar on April 27 last year, but the PMC took nine months to install no entry boards, following which the new system came into force on January 17, 2017.
 
 As per the system, vehicles coming from Kondhwa road will have to turn right to pass via Ashoka Mews and   chowk to reach respective destinations while vehicles coming from Kakade vasti,   and Kumar Prithvi will have to ply straight through Karkare chowk and behind Sheetal petrol pump and take a right turn to reach Kondhwa road.
 
 The system did wonders for the congestion problem when it was enforced by the police for few days. But after the attention of police was diverted towards other duties, the one way system became two-way again and violation of norms started creating traffic congestion once more.
 
 The residents have demanded that the decision be rolled back as it is an inconvenience to them. Instead, they are seeking a ban on the plying of heavy vehicles during peak hours to resolve the traffic chaos in the densely populated Meethanagar area and its suburbs.
 
 Businessman Salim Mulla said, “The flow of vehicles has increased as vehicles coming from Kondhwa road pass via Ashoka Mews co-operative housing society and Hemant Karkare chowk to reach Katraj, Sukhsagarnagar and Bibvewadi. Heavy vehicles transporting goods to construction sites here are creating nuisance for the residents during peak hours. The congestion has also increased because vehicles are parked on the roadside as there is no parking facility in most buildings.“
 
 School bus driver Mohsin Shaikh said, “Heavy vehicles are facing trouble taking a right turn from behind Sheetal petrol pump to head to Kondhwa road because the road is narrow. When heavy vehicles get stuck taking that turn it throws vehicular traffic out of gear for around 45 minutes. The situation becomes worse when vehicles flout no entry rules and comes in from the opposite side. PMC should widen the roads if it wants the new system to continue, impose restriction on heavy vehicles or else scrap it“ Businessman Altaf Tarakash id, “The whole mess becomes wor said, “The whole mess becomes worse when motorists stop on the road and start to argue. Lack of civic sense on the part of motorist is the main reason why congestion has increased after the new system came into force.“
 
 Activist Wasim Shaikh said, “Traffic congestion will reduce if the PMC takes action against illegal constructions and creates parking space.“
 
 Inspector Sandipan Sawant incharge of the Kondhwa traffic police division said, “Initially the oneway system had worked well for few days because of the presence of sufficient number of policemen at peak hours. But, now the people are flouting no entry norms even though we are constantly taking action against them. Plying of heavy vehicles during peak hours is creating hindrances for the smooth implementation of the new system at Meethanagar.“
 
