NEW DELHI: Environmental activists and researchers hailed the Supreme Court’s order, directing the automobile industry to stop the sale of   from April 1.

 In its order, an   bench comprising Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta said that even though the BSIII inventory is smaller than the total stock of vehicles in the country, public health is “far more important” than commercial interest of manufacturers.
 
 Experts said it was a “landmark” judgment, upholding people’s right to breathe clean air. The particulate matter (PM) emissions from commercial vehicles will reduce by up to 80% with the transition to BS-IV. In two-wheelers, hydrocarbon (HC) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions will reduce by 41-80%, depending on the engine size.
 
 Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, CSE, said: “This is a significant step forward as this gives the message and the lesson that the automobile industry will have to walk the extra mile to address the expansive concern around public health and not weigh down the transition by taking a very narrow technical view.”
 
 TOI had reported an analysis of the auto industry’s pending inventory. The analysis based on Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers’ submission in the SC had revealed that many companies continued production of   vehicles in large numbers between January and March 2017. According to the industry data, there are about eight lakh unsold BS-III vehicles in the country. They include 96,724 commercial vehicles; 6,71,305 two-wheelers; 16,198 four-wheelers and 40,048 three-wheelers. The industry asked for a year to clear the unsold stock.
 
 “It is unacceptable that even though the industry has been producing BS-IV vehicles since 2010 for earmarked regions, most companies have not slowed down the production of BS-III vehicles. Instead, they have chosen to remain in a business-as-usual state. There has been no proactive strategy in place to prepare for this transition,” added Roychowdhury. CSE researchers further pointed out that there were some companies, which had taken steps to stop production of BS-III vehicles in advance.
 
 “The SC order is very welcome and a historic step. There are two major takeaways for me. One is that air pollution is a very serious public health issue and we should do anything and everything to control it. The other is that directives need to be taken seriously by the industry,” said Amit Bhatt, director (integrated transport), World Resources Institute (WRI). “The transport ministry’s notification on transition to BS IV had come two years ago. They had enough time to prepare for this transition. ”
 
 The amicus curiae in the case, Harish Salve, said in his affidavit to SC that the transition to BS IV is a critical step to combat toxic   in the country. The note recounts that the SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) had given a prior notice to automakers so that BS III inventories can be reduced and manufacture of BS IV vehicles can be started.
 
 
