CHENNAI: The IT wing of a faction of the AIADMK has launched an aggressive campaign for O Panneerselvam through which the caretaker chief minister is thanking the people of Tamil Nadu.

 In his 38-second call through a voice SMS, Panneerselvam said he will continue to serve the people and tread the path shown by the late leader. The call begins with “Me, your   calling” and then goes onto thank the listeners.
 
 Last Tuesday, Panneerselvam revolted against interim party general secretary V K  , two days after he resigned as CM. Before this campaign, the I-T wing’s missed call campaign, launched last Thursday, received about 2.5 lakh calls from outside Tamil Nadu and 1.5 lakh calls from abroad in two days.
 
 “Within three days, the campaign got more than three million calls. It was then the CM himself decided to reach out to all his supporters by sending a voice SMS,” said Aspire K Swaminathan, former IT wing secretary of the AIADMK.
 
 The IT wing aside, Put Chutney, a Chennai-based media company which hosts artists like Sofia Ashraf, has joined the social media campaign #OPSvsSasikala. It has made a stream of videos, aimed at providing comic relief, that have garnered more than 5.6 lakh views.
 
 For instance their video of two MLAs on their way to Koovathur has gone viral with more than 1 lakh views and 2,780 shares. “We have tried to be as creative as possible with our dialogues while commenting on the current political situation,” said Raj Mohan, writer at Put Chutney. “We wanted to use humour to ask the questions,” said Mohan.
 
 The IT wing of the AIADMK has also been active on social media by posting pictures of activities at Panneerselvam’s residence. “The CM keeps getting presented a lot of unique things, apart from the usual shawls and flowers. For instance today, he was presented a painting of a raging jallikattu bull in appreciation for his role in lifting the ban on the sport. We try and update the handle @CMO every 10 minutes,” said Selva from the IT wing of the AIADMK.
 
 
