Hyderabad: Lost in the din of shops peddling new age addictions like mobile phones and accessories, this 63-year-old seller of rare stamps, coins and currency notes stands out as a lone sentinel of a bygone era in the bustling Unity House complex of the city’s noisy Abids area.

 While its neighbours advertise their wares using flashy boards and banners sporting celebrities and quirky faces to cajole passers-by to step in and splurge on gadgets, this shop - ‘Bright & Co’ is like a spot of sunshine for collectors or those craving for a glimpse into the world’s history through these rare items. 
 
 Yet, it does nothing out of the ordinary to advertise its presence, perhaps because it knows that those who value such rareties will come knocking at its doors. That explains why its plain vanilla signage board just baldly states ‘coins, notes, stamps’. 
 
  & Co’s proprietor Viqar Akbar, who prefers to be called treasurer, is content in the knowledge that connoiseurs will walk into his shop, regardless of its appearance, whenever they want to dig into its treasure trove of history that boasts of nuggets dating back to the Kushan Empire, Mughal dynasty or the Nizam era or even the East India Company.
 
 The shop was initially set up by Mohd Badruddin Khan in 1954 opposite the St George’s Grammar School in Abids as a seller of rare stamps. Having travelled far and wide, Khan had seen diverse cultures of many European nations and was drawn to philately. In 2000, it shifted to Unity House at Abids.
 
 Viqar Akbar, who is Khan’s only son and has been manning the shop for over 30 years now, points out that during his father’s days, this was the first shop in the area to sell stamps. He says business was robust as the shop was frequented by school children, tourists and locals.
 
 However, over the years, things have changed and stamps only constitute over 5% of their business now. Around 25 years ago, Akbar introduced coins and currency notes to help him keep the business afloat.
 
 “No doubt, all these are expensive hobbies. In early days, people had interest, money and most importantly, patience. Forget interest, people are hard pressed for money and time now. On an average day, I get around two to four customers only...,” he rues.
 
 Akbar, who has been running the business for over 30 years, says one of the biggest trends is that most of his buyers are not collectors but buy from him and sell elsewhere for a premium.
 
 Competition is also brewing online with several sites dealing in coins and stamps mushrooming. But Akbar points out credibility is a major issue. “A shop will never sell you a fake as it is all about trust and this business runs purely on trust. If you come to know that I have sold you a fake…you will never return and I will lose a customer,” he explains.
 
 Akbar procures his wares from dealers in Chennai and Mumbai. “After being in business for such a long time, we can make out if a coin or stamp is real or fake…one has to check a lot of things such as weight, colour etc and only when we have a doubt do we get them graded by coin certification agencies,” he adds.
 
 Today, Bright & Co has a collection of over 50,000 coins, the most expensive one being a 1897 Queen Victoria silver one with a price tag of Rs 15,000. Similarly, it has over one lakh stamps, of which the priciest is a Mahatma Gandhi series stamp on offer for Rs 30,000.
 
 While Akbar proudly displays his rare possessions, he is not sure if the future of Bright & Co is too bright as the next generation is comfortably settled in other professions and is not too keen on carrying forward this rich legacy. 
 
 He agrees that running this business is an uphill task as the number of people, who are passionate about collecting them, is certainly dwindling and most of the youngsters are either not exposed to these hobbies or do not care as they have too many gadgets hogging mindspace.
 
 Also, after the shop moved to Unity Market building from the main road, its business dropped and Akbar is just scraping through. Bifurcation too took its toll on business as it was primarily Andhra people who used to buy a lot of artefacts. 
 
 Even demonetisation proved to be a bolt ‘out of the blue’ as people struggled to lay their hands on new currency notes to buy old ones from his shop. So, on the bright side, are the demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes a hit among notaphilists? He smiles, “not yet…but soon they will be.”
 
 
