LUCKNOW: Credited by critics for introducing and metamorphosing   into Urdu, renowned for his original pieces of work that were translated in several languages and an authority on Lucknow and its history,   breathed his last here in the city on Monday afternoon.

 Born in 1936, Masud, who had been ailing for a long time, died at his home 'Adabistaan' (literary haven) in Turiaganj and was buried at the Munshi Fazley Husian Karbala in Haiderganj of the old city. 
 
 He translated 20 short stories of Kafka —   — as early as in 1978 and the Urdu scholar, writer and former head of the Persian department at Lucknow University (LU) also wrote four collections of short stories. He had, to his credit, the authorship of 35 novels that have been translated in almost all languages of the world, including Spanish, French, Polish, Finnish and Persian. 
 
 Recently, the   Press translated all of his works into English and published the ‘Collected works of Naiyer Masud’, years after he received the Sahitya Akademi Award for Urdu in 2001 and the Saraswati Samman in 2007. 
 
 “He was an expert on Mir Anis and an authority on Lucknow and its historical monuments in the true sense, so much so that his works are used as reference material because of its credibility. His work on Kafka in Urdu is the only such detailed collection in Urdu,” said Prof Anis Ashfaq, former head of the Urdu department at LU. “His short stories were widely popular in the west and feature in the syllabus of around 80% Urdu departments of foreign universities,” he added. His work, Ashfaq said, was lined with suspense and evoked curiosity, much like Kafka. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Masud’s son Timsaal Masud said, “He was appointed as lecturer in LU’s Persian department in 1967 and retired in 1996 and had been ailing for a long time.”
 
 With news reaching friends, family and well wishers and social media loaded with condolence messages, former vice chancellor of LU Prof Roop Rekha Verma and activist Vandana Mishra also extended their tribute to the literary personality. Masud's short stories are collected in the volumes Ganjifa, Simiya, Itr-e-kaafoor, and Taoos Chaman Ki Myna that have all been translated in several languages. 
 
