KAMARPUKUR (HOOGHLY): For 89-year-old Pramila Sarkar, longing for her near and dear ones has always remained a constant. Earlier, she used to wait for her freedom-fighter husband Bibhutibhusan; now it’s for her eldest son Nabakumar.

 Nabakumar (65), also known as  , was acquitted by a Jaipur court on Wednesday for his alleged role in the 2007 blast in the shrine of Sufi Khawaja Moinuddin Chisti which killed three and injured 15. Assemananda was arrested from Haridwar in November 2007.
 
 Pramila has met her son only once in the last decade. In 2015, when she was ailing. A court then granted Assemananda a 10-day parole to meet her. They met at a Joyrambati hotel. At 6.30 pm on Wednesday, a call from her son’s lawyers rekindled the hope again. “They informed me he has been acquitted. They promised to call up again to let me know when he will come to meet me. Last night, for the first time in many years, I had a good sleep,” Pramila said. Very ill, Pramila has been nearly bed-ridden in the past few years.
 
 Assemananda’s release, however, will hinge on the legal fate of other cases where he has been implicated as an accused. “I do not understand politics. My husband had turned down (former Bengal CM) Prafulla Chandra Sen’s offer to join Congress. They were good friends. He had told me his aim has been achieved and he didn’t hanker for power. This was a trait Naba imbibed from him,” she said. Their paths and chosen goals, however, were clearly different.
 
 Pramila says her son was always good at academics. Having graduated in Physics from Kamarpukur College, he got involved with the political developments and was jailed for a year during Emergency. He completed MSc from   after he was freed. “Later, he decided to help the tribals and started working with the Banabasi Kalyan Ashram,” said Achintya Sarkar, younger brother of Aseemananda.
 
 Pramila says her son left home in 1991 to join RSS (as a pracharak). “Since then, his visits were very infrequent. But he always kept track of my well-being,” she said. “He built a number of schools and rehabilitation centres even in jungles of  , Gujarat, Andamans, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand. The tribals respected him a lot. Congress always targeted him,” said Pramila, who now stays with her youngest son Sushanta.
 
