HYDERABAD: The   on the   found instant acceptance among people of the city and turned into an overnight  . Now, its   is going places and promoting ' '. 

 The art installation on Tank Bund, unveiled November last year during the Street Art Festival in the city, had instantly found popularity, with the young and the aged swarming to get their pictures clicked in front of it. During the Bio-Asia conference in February, it was seen in its newest form as that of a memento, presented to high-profile visitors and industry representatives. Since then, 'Love Hyderabad' was no longer just a spot on the city map but a message that sought to convey a new brand image of the over 400-year-old city.
 
 "Bio-Asia was a signature event," Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, industries and commerce said. "Our pitch was to promote the Genome Valley project as an equivalent to biotech industry as Silicon Valley is to information technology," he added. When brainstorming about prepping for the event, the idea of turning Love Hyderabad sculpture into a take away memory was discussed and approved. "Minister KT Rama Rao was the person who pitched the idea, and everyone agreed it was perfect," he said. And the popular sculpture was overnight turned into the city's brand ambassador.
 
 Jayesh Ranjan said that Love Hyderabad mementos will continue to be presented at future signature events in the city. "For instance, we are hoping to land the Global Entrepreneurship Summit which is to be hosted in India. Other cities are also vying to host it, but Hyderabad is ahead at this point of time. Events such as these and others that are the most appropriate platforms with the right stature to promote the city is where Love Hyderabad will make its presence felt," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the original sculpture on the Tank Bund recently received a fresh coat of paint. With it becoming a part of the efforts to promote the city at the national and international level as a place for investments, the Love Hyderabad sculpture is expected to receive more attention as the days go by, officials said.
 
 
