KORAPUT: Stepping up their call to boycott the ensuing three-tier  , the Maoists gunned down a ward member candidate reportedly for disobeying their diktat and   late on Thursday. 

 The deceased has been identified as  , 40, who was declared elected uncontested for the post of ward member in Bara village in Kartanpalli panchayat under Mathili police limits.
 
 According to sources, around 10 to 15 armed Maoists swooped down on the home of Durua at Bara village, around 75 km from Malkangiri, bordering Chhattisgarh around Thursday midnight and fired on him from a close range killing him. 
 
 Police said Durua had never complained of any  . Maoists belonging to the Dharaba division are responsible for the murder, said police.
 
 According to sources, all eight panchayats that comes under the Mathili zilla parishad zone-1 is highly Maoist infested and the Dharaba division of the banned outfit rules the roost over there. 
 
 The incident has created panic among the contestants for the ensuing panchayat polls in the district and the ongoing electioneering process may be hit. "The incident has frightened me. Now I have decided to restrict my campaigning for the election to roadside villages and to stay at Mathili till the election is over. Though police is there, we can't take a risk," said a candidate contesting for a zilla parishad seat. 
 
 Prior to the beginning of the election process the Maoists had called for poll boycott in Malkangiri district and had threatened to punish those who dare to file nomination and chop fingers of people who will vote. The Maoists released as many as five poll officials after producing them in a praja court (kangaroo court of the Maoists) in the cut-off area last month. The poll officials were freed with a warning not to come to the area in the future for poll-related work. The Maoists grip in the area could be easily assessed from the fact that the   was forced to keep the poll process in abeyance at the 18 panchayats under Chitrakonda block due to Maoist threat. 
 
 "If any candidate requires security he or she can approach us and adequate security will be provided. However, till now we have not received a single complaint of Maoist threat from any candidate," said collector (Malkangiri) K Sudarshan Chakravarthy.
 
