NEW DELHI: Inaugurating a new intelligence wing in the   home minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that anti-national elements are trying to foment tension in the society by posting unverified information on social media, while asking the jawans to not believe such information. 

 The intelligence wing will have 650 men who will gather intelligence on terrorists, illegal immigrants, drugs/fake currency/wildlife smugglers etc on Nepal and Bhutan borders. Earlier, the border guarding force had to depend on IB reports for intelligence about terrorists’ movements and smugglers. 
 
 Due to the visa-free regime India has with Nepal and Bhutan, there is trans-border movement of criminals which poses a major challenge, a home ministry official said. As many as 230 former Kashmiri militants, based in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir, have returned home through the Indo-Nepal border since 2010. The Indo-Bhutan border is known to be frequented by the Assam-based insurgent group National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), which has even attacked Bhutanese nationals in the past. 
 
 The SSB has also been declared as the lead intelligence agency for both the borders. Thus, the central government felt that a well-knit intelligence network of the highest capability that can function and deliver would be the prime requirement for comprehensive border management. This was essential as the SSB’s operations are based on intelligence to prevent criminals and smugglers from taking advantage of the friendly borders with Nepal and Bhutan, the official said. 
 
 Singh said information and news, that was completely wrong or having no basis, was being regularly circulated on social media such as WhatsApp and many people consider it to be true. “I want to tell SSB jawans not to believe such messages and forward to anyone without verification as anti-national elements have been trying to foment trouble in the society. We all have to be careful before believing or forwarding them,” he said after launching the intelligence wing. 
 
 Lauding the role of the SSB, which guards the 1,751 km- long Indo-Nepal and the 699 km-long Indo-Bhutan borders, Singh said it is very tough to guard such open borders, which allow visa-free movement of people, than fenced borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. “In an open border, the securitymen do not know which way a criminal is coming or who is carrying fake currency or fake drugs,” he said.
 
