PATIALA: The court of additional district and session judge Ravdeep Singh Hundal on Thursday acquitted  , the chief of terror outfit   (KLF), in the 2010   planting case. Mintoo was one of the six who got out in the   on November 27, and first escapee to be arrested the next day.

 In the bomb planting case, four other accused — including   who was also accused of bomb attack on convoy of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmit Ram Rahim Singh near Karnal — Jasvir Singh, Harjant Singh and Pargat Singh, were acquitted of all the charges in March 2014. Mintoo was absolved of the accusations on Thursday.
 
 Three days back the same court had acquitted another Khalistan sympathizer Ramandeep Singh Goldy in the Arya Samaj Bomb Blast case of April 2010, for the lack of evidence. In that case too, other accused had already been acquitted earlier.
 
 The explosives case was registered by the Nabha Sadar police station on January 18, 2010, under Section 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosives Act and Sections 13, 17, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on a complaint filed by the chief manager of the Nabha LPG bottling plant after some men were spotted planting a light crude bomb along one of the outer walls of the gas bottling plant. Two wires were said to be attached to a fertiliser drum in which the explosives were kept.
 
 Following the revelation, police called in an Army team which refused to inspect the drum claiming that it was ill-equipped to handle such a situation and later a bomb disposal unit from PAP Jalandhar was summoned which defused the bomb.
 
 Mintoo had been brought here from Malaysia in December 2014, after which he stood trial in the case. The prosecution had alleged that the Mintoo was the mastermind of the bomb planting case and had provided all the logistics and financial assistance for the act. The explosives were said to have been procured from Mumbai.
 
 Defence counsel Brijinder Singh Sodhi said that they pressed an argument that prosecution could not prove that the drum which was recovered from near the outer walls of the bottling plant was actually a light crude bomb as no supporting evidence was put on record. He claimed that the prosecution also failed to link Mintoo with the occurrence as no eyewitness or documentary evidence was produce before the court.
 
 Still facing 11 other cases
 
 Acquitted in the bomb planting case KLF chief Harminder Singh Mintoo still has 11 cases registered against him across Punjab. While he was granted bails in two of these cases, prosecution had requested his discharge in a one of the cases. He is named as the main conspirator in most of these cases linked with the Khalistan movement. He was arrested from Delhi airport in 2014 on his return from Malaysia where he reported set up a module to gather support for Khalistani cause. According to the police files he had received training at an ISI camp organized in Thailand. Mintoo’s family runs a business in Goa and he fled to Thailand after he was named as an accused in a case of seizure of 24.5 kg explosive material and 25 detonators in Ludhiana in 2008. A native of Dalli village in Jalandhar district, Mintoo remained on the run until 2014.
 
 KFL chief by default
 
 According to the police files, Mintoo became the chief of KLF by default as he was the only member of the outfit who could not be arrested for a long time. Most others were either eliminated or arrested. This made him appear as if he is the chief of the KLF, while in actual he was just a cadre of the outfit, who tried to revive Khalistan idea after coming in touch with Pakistan’s ISI, police files say.
 
 
