CHANDIGARH: In a major step forward, the government has eased the restrictions imposed on attaching satellite transmitters onto critically-endangered   and other wild species. The Haryana forest department received a letter of intent for allocation of frequency bandwidth for satellite data transmission and has deposited the requisite licence and related fees worth Rs 2,17,500 with the department of telecommunications (DoT), Union ministry of communications and information technology.

 The step forward comes after months of lobbying with the DOT by wildlife officers and Haryana chief minister  . The restrictions had translated into long delays in the work of vulture rehabilitation because eight White-backed vultures were awaiting release since June 2016 from the Pinjore-based Jatayu Conservation Breeding Centre (JCBC) run by the BNHS and the forest department. Six of these vultures had been born and raised in captivity and could not be released without satellite tags or platform terminal transmitters (PTTs). The process of monitoring vultures after release into the wilderness through data transmitted via satellites also involved the allocation of a particular frequency by the DOT. However, the DOT had neither granted permission for import of PTTs and nor had it allocated the requisite frequency for satellite data transmission citing apprehensions that such technology may be misused for spying by interests inimical to India.
 
 TOI had run a series of exclusive reports on how the lack of permissions was holding up wildlife research work from all species in India. In particular, two Himalayan griffons released in June 2016 from the JCBC could not be traced because PTTs could not be attached to the birds. “The fees have been deposited by our department with the DOT following a receipt of a letter of intent for frequency assignment from the DOT’s assistant wireless advisor to the government. This is a very positive step in the rehabilitation of vultures in the wilderness. The Haryana government and CM Khattar had written letters to the government seeking these satellite permissions as vulture rehabilitation has been included as a part of the Swachh Bharat mission,” principal chief conservator of forests, Haryana, P P  , told TOI.
 
 The fees deposited by the Haryana forest department with the DOT are from a fund allocated for vulture conservation by the Union ministry of environment and forests under a centrally sponsored scheme. The break-up of the fees is: Rs 3,750 (licence), Rs 1,05,000 (loyalty charges) and Rs 1,08,750 (spectrum charges). “We are now awaiting the communication from the DOT for the allocation of the particular frequency on which we will track vultures. We have intimated to the DOT the coordinates of our Pinjore centre as the node for satellite transmission. I am keeping my fingers crossed but the first positive step has been taken,” Dr Vibhu Prakash, who heads the JCBC, told TOI.
 
 Apart from frequency allocation by the DOT, users of satellite tracking also have to go in for equipment listing and import licencing of PTTs from the DOT. Speaking to TOI, the DOT’s senior deputy wireless advisor (P), M K Patnaik, said: “Once the fees have been deposited, I shall have the matter processed for frequency allocation. The permission for import of satellite tags follows after the process of frequency allocation.”
 
 The breakthrough came after hectic efforts by the Haryana government and the BNHS. Consultations at the highest level of the Union ministries of environment and forests and the ministry of communications and information technology, the personal intervention of   member-secretary DN Singh and an official note clarifying the urgency of satellite tags for wildlife conservation in India helped resolve the impasse. The note written by Wildlife Institute of India’s director Dr V B Mathur had squarely addressed the apprehension of wildlife data downloaded through satellites being misused for spying. 
 
 “Unlike a satellite phone that involves two-way voice communication, satellite telemetry involves one-way data communication. Satellite transmitters, deployed on wide ranging or migratory animals, temporarily store information about animal locations and environmental variables before transmitting it via satellites to receiving stations where from the decoded information is communicated via internet,” Dr Mathur’s note had stated.
 
