Nagpur: In a move that will spell doom for tigers and block corridors, the urban development department (UDD) of the state government has granted permission to develop resorts, tourism and hospitality services on private lands falling within 5km from the boundary of the national parks and sanctuaries in the state. According to sources, the decision seems to be taken to benefit resort lobby planning to come with big facilities around Tadoba and Pench under the guise of nature conservancy. Experts warn such development is likely to increase already flared up man-animal conflict outside Tadoba. The UDD notification was issued on September 20, 2017. It allows development on lands situated within 5km distance or up to limit of notified eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) whichever is more. The maximum permissible limit has restricted to 10% of the gross area with G+1 structure with the height of not more than 9 metres. A draft ESZ notification of TATR was issued by the MoEFCC on July 14, 2015. It ranged from 3km to 16km from the TATR boundary and includes entire 1,103.34 sqkm buffer zone and contiguous forests beyond the buffer zone, which are also wildlife corridors. Forest officials said for over two years the MoEFCC did not issue a final notification of TATR ESZ. “To pave way for resorts, Tadoba ESZ notification was not issued it seems. Similarly, ESZ for Pench has also not been finalized,” they feared.  The UDD notification allows development of ecotourism, nature and adventure tourism facilities for lands which have minimum 1 hectare area in contiguous manner. Among the facilities that can be developed include 15-metre-high tourist watch tower, suites, guard and watchman cabins and ancillary structures and landscape elements.  State wildlife board member Dhananjay Bapat said, “The move will create unhealthy competition. Maintaining a zone of 5km from the periphery of core zone as a 'no developmental zone' to foster wildlife corridor is a must, especially near sensitive parks like Tadoba. Construction activity will not only cause man-animal conflict but will also block corridors from all sides.” MoEFCC’s Regional Environment Committee (REC) member Suresh Chopne questioned UDD’s jurisdiction in buffer zones. The new notification ensues conflict between National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and state forest department as it overrides the national tiger body's guidelines constituted post Supreme Court order on tourism on October 17, 2012. Besides, the notification is in direct contravention with ESZ proposal which says, barring eco-friendly tourism activities, no new commercial hotels and resorts will be permitted within 1km from the park boundary. “Such decisions are taken by the statutory Local Advisory Committee (LAC), which has participation of all stakeholders,” said Chopne. Chandrapur honorary wildlife warden Bandu Dhotre said in 2012, LAC recommended 23 villages surrounding Tadoba as ‘no go zones’ stopping development of resorts. As Bhamdeli near Mohurli was left out, huge construction activity has taken place there. “LAC decisions are shown the door and minutes of last meeting held in February 2016 have still not approved by the divisional commissioner who is the chairman. The UDD decision will aggravate man-animal conflict,” said Dhotre.