
Ma Aruganathan, Thirulogam Seetharam, Indira Parthasarathy­ the first, a health department official who ran a self-funded magazine called `Mundril' with his government salary; the second, a school drop-out who wrote much but is talked about too little; and the third, believed to be Tamil theatre's first official scriptwriter. Thanks to filmmaker Ravi Subramaniyan's documentaries, these “pillars of Tamil literature“ ­ as he calls them ­ are in the spotlight, “where they deserve to be“.
 
 “These writers contributed much to the propagation of the Tamil literary word,“ says Subramaniyan. That's why , after decades of making hundreds of television documentaries for various regional channels, in 2003, he decided to venture into making short films on people he felt deserved to be in the spotlight a lot more than they were.
 
 “The reason I make these documentaries is that here we have people who have preserved our history and culture through their writing, yet we have done nothing to preserve theirs,“ says Subramaniyan, adding that his documentaries, which cost around Rs 5 lakh to make, are funded by him and his friends.
 
 His latest work, `Thiruloga Seethar am Enkira Aalumai', on Thirulogam Seetharam ­ the poet-writer who among other things used music to propagate the songs of   and inspired a generation of writers ­ is being shown at the ongoing   and Short Films Festival. “Seetharam, who died in the 1950s, was a school drop-out but contributed a lot to Tamil literature. He even looked after Chellamma, the widow of Bharathi, till the very end, considering himself her adopted son,“ says the 53-year-old filmmaker, who adds that apart from reading the works of his subjects, his documentaries involve conversations with their family, friends and colleagues.
 
 “The first documentary that I made was a 30-minute film on Indira Parthasarathy, the pen-name of R Parthasarathy , who I believe was the first man to write a script for a modern Tamil theatre production,“ says Subramaniyan, adding that it was produced and subtitled by Sahitya Akademi, and shown at festivals around the country .“Parthasarathy , who is now in his 80s, quit his job as a Tamil professor in Delhi to run the drama department at  , as theatre was his first love,“ says Subramaniyan, who has uploaded all his documentaries on YouTube.
 
 His second film was on Ma Aruganathan (now in his 80s), another writer who faded into obscurity, despite his sizable literary contribution of seven novels and 200 short stories. This was followed up with documentaries on writers Jayakantan and T N Ramachandran. And up next is one on writer B Jeyamohan. “His life fascinates me,“ says Subramaniyan. “For instance, 20 years ago, he decided to live like a sadhu for a while, begging for food and sleeping on the streets. I am excited about telling his story.“
 
