NAGPUR: Fed up with his habit of making allegations against sitting judges and lawyers and his delaying tactics, the Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday slapped one more suo motu contempt case on lawyer Satish Uke while asking him to deposit another Rs 2 lakh as cash security with the court registry. In an earlier suo motu contempt, he was told to deposit cash security of similar amount by the court on February 8, which he had done.

 For the first time in Nagpur bench’s history, the hearing took place with two video cameras inside the courtroom as demanded by Uke himself. The courtroom was packed with lawyers and court staff wanting to witness first ever video recorded hearing. Many also thronged the courtroom anticipating the lawyer earning a censure from the court in criminal contempt initiated by Justice  .
 
 A division bench of Justice   and Justice   refused to heed to pleas for adjournment made by Uke. He tried many ways to escape court’s wrath, including complaining of uneasiness and ill-health. The judges immediately summoned a doctor and made her sit through the hearing. Keeping in mind Uke’s history of coming up with excuses to adjourn proceedings, the judges told him to remain present on Thursday by 10.30am for hearing, else they would proceed with the contempt order.
 
 Earlier, Uke had filed two new applications praying for each of judges to recuse themselves while hearing proceedings involving him. He stated he had already moved application to the chief justice requesting him to assign a different bench for hearing his case not involving Justices Varale and Haq.
 
 The court rejected both applications while pulling him up for making scandalous allegations against sitting judges without any substance. “We find both applications were filed with oblique and evil design to obstruct administration of justice. You have indulged in an act of vilification by filing applications that tend to scandalize court’s authority and obstruct administration of justice. How can you say to a judge that you can’t hear a particular case?”
 
 While issuing another notice, the court asked him why he shouldn’t be punished for committing contempt of court by filing frivolous applications to delay the hearings. He was told to file a detailed reply in a fresh contempt by March 8 and remain present at 2.30pm even if he is not served with the notice.
 
 “Both of us basically decided not to read the averments made in Uke’s applications. Such applications can’t be entertained. We have been hearing him in this month and except for adjournments, there is no bona fide assistance from him. Filing of one application after another can’t be permitted, else it wouldn’t be possible for the judges to hear any case. We are of the view that as suo motu contempt is assigned to us as a special bench, we are under obligation to proceed with hearing unless CJ refers the case to another bench,” the judges said.
 
