JAIPUR: We have been searching for our 14-year-old daughter who went missing, for a year-and-a-half, said a Dalit couple Meera and Ramdhan from Padla Wali Dhani, Tan Udaipura village under Mehndipur Balaji police station in Dausa. “The police are of no help. We have approached the courts too. Where else can we turn?” the distraught parents asked at a press conference in the state capital on Friday. In July last year, the HC dismissed their petition saying that the girl had eloped with a man she was acquainted with. “But we still don’t know where she is – there is no trace of her,” the parents say.

 The press conference was organised by  . Suman Devathiya, a leader of Dalit women in the state, said, “Police are not known for acting with alacrity in any case. If the complainant is a Dalit, there is an added struggle – the case might not be registered at all. And if the police condescend to register a case, then they delay investigation. The data shows that half of the cases registered under the   are dismissed as false.”
 
 The   of Atrocity Act was amended last year to include a whole new range of humiliations. Also, compensation amounts have been hiked – according to website. In fact, revised compensation for a rape survivor under this Act is Rs 5 lakh; for a survivor of gang rape, the amount is Rs 8.5 lakh. There is not even one instance in the state where this amount has been granted.
 
 What is more, statistics from the police department show a declining trend in the number of cases registered under the SC ST Prevention of Atrocities Act in the state. While 8,415 cases were registered in 2014, the figure for 2015 was 7,320; in 2016, only 5,997 cases were registered. 
 
 Devathiya explained that under the Act, investigators are required to submit a report in 60 days in the court. This is seldom done. The statement of a rape victim must be recorded in the presence of a woman magistrate – this too is never complied with. Victims are repeatedly called to police stations and told to recount their experiences, which can be extremely humiliating. The accused are seldom arrested expeditiously and are left free to intimidate victims and force a “compromise”. Sometimes, the accused, hailing from more powerful sections of the society, forcefully evict families of victims from their homes. 
 
 The law provides for a monitoring committee at the state, district and block levels. Such a committee does not exist in Rajasthan. Compensation to victims of rape should be offered once the FIR is registered – this too is not adhered to. 
 
 Lawyer Tarachand Varma said, “The police make such a terrible mess of investigations and half of the cases are dismissed as false. There is a need for greater enlightenment among the cops while dealing with this stratum of society. Just taking a matter of rape, for instance, to the police is a bold decision for a poor family. In the absence of support from the system, Dalit families will remain oppressed.”
 
 
