LONDON: Belief is the spring in your step, the light in your eye or the sting in your second serve. And as the mighty   showed on a sun-kissed Thursday afternoon on Centre Court, it is the fight in your heart. It beats debilitating illness, numbs injury and blunts pressure.

 Venus, tennis' mountaineer, scaled another peak on ladies semifinal day at Wimbledon. She silenced a 15000-strong crowd, to stop home hope Johanna Konta, storming into the final here for the first time in eight years. Venus, 37, the oldest finalist since   in 1994, didn't say age was a number, she showed it in a compelling exhibition of courage and character. The American threw her arms up in celebration at the end of the 73-minute contest, a bright smile accessorizing her elegantly made up face, punctuating the clash against a 26-year-old opponent.
 
 Venus won 6-4, 6-2 to make her ninth final at SW19, where she will play Spain's Garbine   on Saturday. The 22-year-old, into her second final here, earlier came through 6-1, 6-1 in 65 minutes against Slovakia's  . Venus credited her win to belief. "Betting on myself every time," she said, adding that it doesn't make sense to her to back the person standing across the net from her.
 
 "One more win here would be amazing, it's not a given, but it would be great," Venus said, signalling the tournament was far from done for her. "It was a tough match, no point was easy. I had to climb on top of the situation each time. There was a lot of pressure on Jo, she played very well and handled the situation well. I'll ask Serena for some pointers on how to play Muguruza and hopefully she'll give me something that would make a difference, she played her in the final here in 2015."
 
 She added, "I try to represent the Williams the best I can. I missed Serena terribly before the match, I wished she could do it for me. I try to take the same courage on the court that she would have. I tried to do the things she would do. I really tried to be inspired by it."
 
 Konta, who left the court without waiting for her opponent, said: "She played like a five-time champion," the Briton said, "I didn't do much wrong really, so full credit to her."
 
 
