BENGALURU: CCTV footage,   thought, would be strong enough evidence to prove his   was indeed molested. But little did he know that he would 'walk into trouble' because of the same images. Khan's plan to tap into the growing outrage against cases of molestations in the city fell flat, thanks to his unusual gait captured on camera.

 While announcing Khan's arrest on Sunday, police showed two videos ­ First, CCTV footage which Khan himself gave to the media, which he claimed showed the man who attacked his sister in-law. Second, the video which police shot of Khan walking, clearly showing him drag his left foot. CCTV footage that Khan had given to the media showed the attacker with a similar gait.
 
 Khan soon became prime suspect in the case and police began gathering evidence against him. It was found that several calls were exchanged between Khan and his sister-in-law over the past few days. Even on the day of the incident (Friday), she had called him at 5 in the morning.
 
 Although these calls appeared suspicious, they didn't prove a conspiracy. However, the absence of calls subsequently got the cops doubting. Since the time of the alleged molestation, the two hadn't exchanged any calls, and Khan was among the first to reach the police station. Police soon began investigation around the CCTV camera. They had by then managed to get the digital video recorder (DVR) of the camera that was placed in a shop near the crime scene, the one which captured the attacker tailing the woman.They also learnt that Khan and two others had gone to the shop before them and collected a copy of the CCTV footage and edited the video. However, instead of approaching police, Khan went to the media. All along, his plan was to escalate the case.
 
 However, Khan was unaware of the presence of another CCTV camera near the crime scene, the one which captured both the 'attacker' and the 'survivor' talking to each other. Armed with this evidence, cops confronted Kahan, and it was only a matter of time before he confessed to the crime. Cops said Khan had done a recce of the area to find out where CCTV cameras had been placed so that he could manipulate the footage. Investigators also recovered some footage of him walking around the area looking for the cameras.
 
