Vellore: The   department is on a mission to revive and conserve the native cattle breeds through artificial insemination, according to officials.

 The department has preserved the semen of Sindhi, Kangeyam, Umbalacheri, Pulikulam and several other native cattle breeds that suit our environment and agriculture practices. If farmers were interested in the breeds, the department carries out artificial insemination, said Dr T Manoharan, specialist attached to the regional joint director office of the animal husbandry department, Vellore. He was responding to farmers during the farmers’ grievance meeting held at   collectorate on Friday.
 
 The farmers urged the government to give subsidy for rearing native cattle breeds. “Native breeds like Kangeyam can pull carts with four tonnes of weight, but the crossbreed and Jersey breed cannot pull even one tonne. The milk from the crossbreed is also not good for health. Hence the government should support farmers rearing native breed financially,” said a farmer at the meeting.
 
 The farmers have also said that   would help organic farming. “Tamil Nadu launched oestrous synchronisation of indigenous cows programme in October last year to conserve native cattle breeds. There are several other programmes devised by the central and state governments to preserve indigenous breeds,” said Dr Manoharan.
 
 The farmers also urged the district administration to remove ‘Seemai Karuvelam’ trees from water bodies. “The species has grown in large numbers in government Navlock coconut farm and agriculture farm. It is badly affecting the agriculture activities and the yield of coconut trees. The district administration should take immediate steps to uproot Seemai Karuvelam trees from the government farms and also from water bodies,” said L C Mani, a farmer.
 
 Mani also claimed that the PWD department has been planning to open a sand quarry on the Palar riverbed near the government farm near Ranipet. It would affect agriculture activities in the surrounding areas. But collector S A Raman, said there was no such proposal.
 
 Another farmer urged the district administration to construct check dam across Ponnai River to revive agriculture activities in around 600 acres of land in and around Ranipet.
 
 Sugarcane growers said sugar mills in the district have failed to disburse dues for the sugarcane they supplied since 2013. The farmers have also urged the authorities to waive the interest of the loans they availed for raising sugarcane during this period.
 
 Officials of the Cooperative Sugar Mills said that the government has assured to release funds to disburse a part of the pending money to the farmers. “We have been asking for Rs 14 crore from the government to settle the pending amount to the farmers. We will disburse the amount by February,” said an official from a Vellore sugar mill.
 
 
