BHOPAL: Congress party's state-wide protest against   remained uneventful on Friday. This was part of the nationwide agitation against the   Centre's alleged demonetisation 'mismanagement'. Here in the Madhya Pradesh capital, the agitation was led by state Congress president Arun Yadav, AICC secretary Rakesh Kaliya and former Union minister  . Former Delhi Congress president   was one of the 17 observers sent by the AICC to monitor the protest in the state. 

 At the end of the agitation, the Congress submitted a memorandum against demonetisation chaos addressed to President   at the district collector's office.
 
 A large crowd of Congress leaders and workers gathered near the district collectorate on Friday afternoon. Addressing the crowd, former Union minister of state Suresh Pachauri said, "Demonetisation chaos has hit the country's poor, farmers, labourers and small and medium traders. The Prime Minister's dictatorial announcement has unleashed struggle on 99% citizens who are facing tremendous difficulties due to the financial crisis."
 
 Speaking to TOI, Arvinder Singh Lovely argued, "The Prime Minister had claimed that demonetisation would control the black-money problem. But after two months of the announcement, the question remains how much of black-money has been retrieved. First he claimed it would end black-money, next he started advocating cashless transactions and less cash payments."
 
 Congress leader said that while during Diwali, the BJP advocated that people do not buy Chinese crackers and lights because it would economically benefit China. "Now the same government is advising payment through e-wallets like PayTM which is a Chinese company. The Union government has made a U-turn on Chinese companies after demonetisation announcement." Lovely said.Congress leaders further claimed that renowned economists have predicted that demonetisation will adversely affect India's GDP. "We are against the financial interference of the Union government in the lives of the common man," said state Congress chief spokesman KK Mishra.
 
 
