MADURAI: The enforcement directorate (ED) has told the Madurai bench of the Madras high court that Indian Bank ( ) cannot recover its dues from the properties belonging to   baron  , which were attached by it (ED), as the recovery means a direct benefit to the  .

 The bank gave credit facilities to the granite firm based on the properties mortgaged by the company to the bank. The firm did not repay the amount obtained by using credit facilities.Thus, the bank wanted to recover the amount from the properties attached by the ED.
 
 The ED passed an order on December 9, 2016, attaching certain properties of PRP Exports based on the  , registered on December 13, 2013. Subsequently , the adjudicating authority under the Prevention of   Act is sued a showcause notice to the bank and others who claimed interest over the properties attached.
 
 Seeking to quash the attachment and the showcause notice, the Indian Bank, represented by its assistant general manager, filed a case before the high court bench. When the case had come up for hearing last week, the court directed the ED to file a counter. Accordingly, the government produced a counter of the ED assistant director T Joshua before Justice R Subbiah. The assistant director said that investigation revealed that the company had ill-gotten money, through which it acquired more than 5,400 immovable properties from and out of proceeds of crime.
 
 The entire funds, either out of the accounted transactions or from the unaccounted transactions, were used for the acquisition of immovable properties from 2006-07 to 2012-13 aggregating to the transaction value of Rs 102.95 crore, which would fall under the ambit of proceeds of crime as per the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The market value of the transactions was Rs 527 crore, the assistant director said.
 
 “The ill-gotten money cannot be adjusted appropriated against any legal liability by the bank. If the amount is allowed to be adjusted by the bank, then it means a direct benefit to the company. The company is not entitled for it, as the bank accounts were used for fraudulent transferred of funds,“ Joshua said.
 
