GUWAHATI: Majority of women in the state said financial independence is key to their empowerment, putting it above social reforms and curbing crimes against women.

 In a survey conducted by the state government recently, in which women — had to choose the factors which they thought to be most crucial to their empowerment.
 
 Of the respondents, 29% voted for “encouraging women entrepreneurship and home-based businesses”. The second most popular choice was “increasing women literacy and education rate”, which received 23% of the votes. Coming in third, with 17% of the votes, was “talent hunt to discover skilled women across the state”.
 
 Surprisingly, there were no takers for “extended access to internet”, considered one of the most powerful tools for empowering women globally.
 
 “I think technology phobia persists because there is still a lack of awareness about the vast field of possibilities that the internet opens up. The internet is not just about Facebook and WhatsApp. It is a lot more. Entrepreneurs can tap the internet for far more and women who aspire to be entrepreneurs need to be aware of this fact,” eminent women’s rights activist   told TOI.
 
 She appreciated the emphasis on self-dependence as a positive development. “With the government coming up with a great deal of financial assistance to women — through self-help groups and many other ways — women, I think, find it easy to relate to financial self-dependence,” she said.
 
 Only 5-9% of women attached significance to positioning women as decisionmakers on all fronts — including political ecosystems, eradicating social evils (child marriage, dowry, restrictions on widow remarriage), curbing crimes against women and neutralising gender bias as effective empowerment tools.
 
 Only 4% of the voters thought easy access to primary healthcare and sanitation was as important financial self-dependence.
 
 Only 2% of the voters thought encouraging women’s participation in sports would be empowering. The same went for pursuing advanced gender justice and expansion of women’s citizenship.
 
