Gandhinagar: Congress chief whip in the state assembly and Siddhpur MLA, Balwantsinh Rajput, who joined in BJP along with two other Congress MLAs on Thursday, lambasted the Congress for neglecting genuine party workers. He said that the Congress party lacks vision for development and is plagued with groupism. “I was fed up with the groupism in Congress. Impressed with PM Narendra Modi’s development mantra, I decided to join the BJP,” he said.

 
 “BJP’s policies have brought development to Gujarat and the country. So, I decided to leave the Congress and join the BJP. I have already resigned as the MLA,” said Rajput, who is also a leading businessman.
 
 
 The richest MLA of Gujarat, according to the affidavits submitted by the contestants in the 2012 assembly elections, joined the saffron party on Thursday, ending his 35-year stint with India’s oldest political party. Besides Rajput, two other Congress MLAs — Tejashree Patel and P I Patel — too joined the BJP at the party headquarters Kamalam in the presence of its national president Amit Shah. 
 
 
 Citing lack of support from the party as the main reason for joining the BJP, Viramgam MLA Tejashree Patel alleged that she was not getting any support from the Congress workers for development works in her constituency. “At a time when the state is facing natural calamity and the PM and the CM have been doing everything possible to help the state cope with the situation, the Congress is nowhere to be seen. Pained by this, I decided to join the BJP,” she said.
 
 It’s homecoming for P I Patel. “I was in the BJP. Though, I joined the Congress in 2012, I never felt comfortable there in the absence of support from the party for development works,” said the Vijapur MLA.
 
 Jitu Vaghani, state BJP president, said that he shared a good rapport with the three Congress MLAs. “A good person can never work in Congress. When I heard that these three MLAs have resigned from Congress due to neglect from the party, I persuaded them to join the BJP,” he said.
 
 BJP has decided to pitch Rajput against Congress stalwart Ahmed Patel, who is seeking his fifth Rajya Sabha term from Gujarat. Patel is political advisor to party president Sonia Gandhi. 
 
 
