CHENNAI: Two years back, when India under-17 defender   joined the Minerva Punjab under-15 squad after being released from the AIFF academy in Goa, he still had dreams of making it big as a striker. He was good with both feet and had keen sense of position. However, at barely 5 foot, 4 inches, it was his lack of prowess in the air which was a cause of concern for the Minerva Punjab coaches. As a result, Anwar was moved to the right-wing before being shifted to central defence.

 The move paid off as Ali shaped himself into a trusted pillar of the Minerva U-15 backline. In a friendly against the India U-17 side earlier this year, his work at the back impressed India U-17 coach Luis Norton de Matos and he was subsequently chosen for India's exposure trip to Europe. Interestingly, during this period his height increased. At 6-feet-1 now, Ali is considered the rock in the Indian defence along with  ,   and Boris Singh Thangjam.
 
 Ali said that starting out as a striker helped him gauge the movements of forwards. “I didn't face too much difficulty in adjusting to the central defender position. Till the age of 15, I was playing as a striker. With the role reversal, I know exactly how a striker's mind works. I can take good positions in the defence and can easily outsmart strikers,” Ali told TOI.
 
 Despite his height, Ali's aerial ability is a work in progress. That is perhaps one of the big reasons why India concede so many goals in deadball situations. “During the last few weeks, we have worked on the dead-ball situations. I have also watched a lot of videos of the exposure tours. It helped me to understand where I was going wrong. Hopefully, you will see an improvement when the tournament begins,” Ali said.
 
 Belonging to a family of livestock traders, Ali used to graze cattle in childhood. The defender, who is a vegetarian, said it helped him develop his strength. “Being a defender, I need to be really strong to deal with the strikers. So I go to the gym and do physical exercise regularly. Grazing cattle helped me develop my core strength,” said Ali.
 
 Besides manning the defence, Ali will also have the added responsibility of being a goal-scoring threat from free-kicks and corners. The teenager, who is a fan of Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos, said he wants to score at least one goal in the under-17 World Cup.
 
