VIJAYAWADA: An assement by the   has shown that more than 19% students in Class II and III need remedial programmes for the ‘3R’ skills. The 3R skills are mathematics skills, and reading and writing in both Telugu and English.

 Surprisingly, the backward north-coastal   of Vizianagaram with 8.8% of the students is a better performer with less percentage of students needing the remedial programme. Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s native district tops the list with more than 27% students in dire need of the remedial programme. 
 
 Even Kadapa with 9% students and   with 12.5% students needing the remedial programme are better performers. 
 
 Interestingly, rich coastal districts such as West Godavari (27%) and Nellore (26%) are poor performers occupying the last two places after Chittoor.
 
 The government schools are predominantly poor performers with a worryingly high 23.35% of students needing remedial programmes. Government schools in Krishna district are better performers with only 12% students needing the remedial programme. Anantapur with more than 35%   students needing support is on the bottom of the list. Chittoor again is at the bottom after Anantapur with 34% of the students needing remedial programmes.
 
 For this assessment, 80 government schools per district participated with government and private schools equally taking part in the programme.
 
 The assessment also shows that more than 23% of the students in all schools need remedial programmes with Prakasam district students faring better with only 12% students needing better skills, and Anantapur again stands last with more than 32% students needing training.
 
 English comprehension of the students is much worse with more than 38% students needing support. Anantapur students are poor with more than 51% students needing support. Krishna district students are much better than others in this aspect with only 25% of them needing support in learning the language.
 
 Regarding mathematics, more than 24% students needed help in the entire state to acquire better skills with Chittoor district students performing poorly (34% need support). Krishna again is the top performer with only 15% needing support in this subject.
 
