Bhopal: He survived eight years of imprisonment as an enemy spy and half a century of virtual exile as the odd-Chinese-out in a dusty   village, and now that he is on the verge of choosing where to spend his last years,   would follow his wife’s lead.

 “Itne saal baad mere bhai se mil ke muje bahut accha lag raha hai…India aur China government ne humara bahut madat kiya … Lekin ab kis desh mein rehna hay, wo humari patni decide karegi…jaisa wo bolegi waisa karenge (I was thrilled to meet my brothers after so many years. The Indian and Chinese governments helped me a lot. But my wife will take the final decision on which country we will settle down. I will do what she says,” Wang told TOI on Monday after returning to his home in Balaghat, MP, on Sunday evening.
 
 Wang was given a warm welcome by villagers in Tirodi, the hamlet where he has spent almost 54 years after being caught by the Indian Army. Wang says he does not expect any financial help from his family in China but would be happier if the Chinese defence ministry gives him his due salary and retirement benefits. “Money is not a problem as of now. The fact that I met my brothers and sisters is more important,” he said. 
 
 After living it up for three months at his native village of Xiaozhainan, Wang, his son Vishnu and his family returned to India last week. After landing in Delhi they met senior officials in the home ministry and expressed their gratitude for helping him reunite with his family in China. “Xiaozhainan has changed a lot. I could not see any farms,” said Wang. 
 
 He was captured on January 3, 1963, when he walked into Indian territory. He said at the time he was a mechanical survey engineer and inadvertently crossed the border. Since the war was over, he was treated as a spy and not accorded POW status. After being moved from one jail to another for eight years, he finally settled in a remote village named Tirodi in Balaghat district were people named him Raj Bahadur — mistaking him for a Nepalese.
 
 He married and had children but always yearned to return home. After struggling for years, Wang and his family arrived in China on February 10 and were given a grand welcome in Xiaozhainan where his elder brother lives. His return to China had hit the front pages in Chinese media even as the government tried to cash in on it by showcasing how they got one of their lost citizens after much effort. The Chinese government has given a two-year visa to his son Vishnu, his wife and granddaughter but they haven't decided whether to settle there.
 
 “We have a multi-entry visa valid for a year. We will sit down with Ma and take a call on which country to settle down,” said Wang’s son Vishnu. Before leaving for China, the district collector had asked Wang for legal documents for taking Indian citizenship. He refused the offer, showing his Chinese passport.
 
 
