NAGPUR: Keeping alive the fine music legacy of playback singer Mohammed Rafi is an organization formed by his fans in Nagpur. For the past 13 years, the Mohd Rafi Fans Cultural Organization has kept the memories of the singer alive by holding an event to mark the singer’s death anniversary on July 31. This year the programmes are being spread across three days to include competitions based on Rafi songs and a blood donation camp too.

 “Rafi was not just a singer. His influence extended to the social sphere too as he was associated with lots of charitable works. Our efforts have always been to focus not just on his songs but to also create awareness about other aspects of his personality,” says Salim Sheikh, founder president of the organization and adds that the recipients are also selected on this criterion.
 
 So far the organization has given awards to the likes of Dilip Kumar, Rajesh Khanna, Shammi Kapoor among the actors. Playback singer   and cricketer Faiz Fazal too have been felicitated. 
 
 “We presented the awards to all three actors at their residences in Mumbai. Shammi was overwhelmed and had said Rafi saab went away too soon,” says Sheikh.
 
 This year the organization plans to felicitate actor Dharmendra, singer Roop Kumar Rathod, local classical vocalist Kalyani Deshmukh and Dr Sudhir Babhulkar at a function to be held at Sai Sabhagruh on July 31. “For the first time we are trying to get Dharmendarji to Nagpur. His secretary tells us that the actor loves Rafi so much that he may even come a day ahead for the event,” says Sheikh who plans to visit the actor this week.
 
 An employee at the AG’s Office in the city, Sheikh’s adulation for the singer rubbed on his colleagues too who joined him when he formed this organization in 2004. “He gave us this idea and being fans of Rafi we loved it,” says PY Joshi who retired from the   office and now runs a cricket coaching academy. 
 
 “Our working president Vilas Dange is a musician. He and Sheikh would hold events not just in auditoriums but even in slum areas for the less privileged where Bhim get and Rafi songs would be presented. The good work over the years has caught the attention of celebrities in Mumbai and they willingly welcome Sheikh when he approaches them for presenting these awards,” adds Joshi.
 
 It was through the efforts of this organization that NMC dedicated a square near High Court by naming it  . “Anil Deshmukh, who was a minister then, inaugurated the square and had said, ‘it is nothing but poetic justice that though Rafi could not get Bharat Ratna today, the square in front of High Court has been named after him’,” says Sheikh.
 
 The sustained efforts in keeping the memory of the singer alive earned this organization lots of credibility feels poet Sagar Khadiwala who has been associated with it for ten years. “The purity which we feel in Rafi’s voice gets reflected in the works of his fans association too. So many organizations are formed for various reasons and they fade away. But this is one body which has sustained and grown due to the good work that it has been doing,” he says.
 
 
