KOLHAPUR: The demand for low-cost houses in the city and fringe rural areas is on the rise, but land crunch is a major hurdle. As a result of this, the Kolhapur branch of Confederation of   Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) is not being able to sign a deal with the Union urban development ministry for building such units. 

 However, at the national level, CREDAI has already entered into an agreement with the ministry for developing over one lakh housing units across nine cities in the state. The developers are expected to invest around Rs 15,000 crore on the projects over the next five years. 
 
 The low-cost housing projects were launched last month at Ahmedabad for 53 cities with an agreement with CREDAI. Almost half the housing units and the investments are going to take place in cities across Maharashtra. 
 
 Mahesh Yadav, president of Kolhapur unit of CREDAI, said, “The requirement for low-cost houses is over 24,000, but only eight projects are in the pipeline with around 1,000 housing units.” 
 
 He said that the district administration, which had sought to initiate such projects, claimed that only eight acres of land is available in non-congested parts of the city for the purpose. 
 
 “However, discussions with the administration will decide the actual plan to build affordable houses. For other cities, the local government bodies have assured land. Considering the rising demand, we too are ready to take up the projects,” said Yadav.
 
 Although there is huge scope for affordable housing projects in the city, the developers are helpless because of high prices of land. In such cases, they consider it as a loss if the housing units are made available at a cost lower than the market prices. 
 
 In the project launched last month, the ministry is the nodal agency for implementation and funds will be made available by National Housing Bank and Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd. The central government has set a deadline of 2022 to complete these projects. 
 
 Several incentives have been announced by the government such as concession in stamp duty for property transactions and additional floor space index (FSI). 
 
 Yadav said, “The government has also given the status of infrastructure to the affordable housing sector. In such cases, we expect more incentives so that the growing demand from areas such as Kolhapur can be met.” 
 
 Senior officials at the district administration say they will be initiating the process to allocate land for affordable home projects once again as the process was halted after the recent transfer of collector  . 
 
 The authorities are expected to call the CREDAI members again to discuss the plan and ensure that low housing projects are initiated in the city and adjoining areas. 
 
 District collector   said the district administration favours affordable housing units as there is a huge demand for the same. 
 
 “We’ll study various options and hold discussions with the stakeholders so that the process can be re-started,” he said.
 
