HYDERABAD: It's been a fantastic run for India and they would want to extend their unbeaten home streak since 2012-13. England were the last team to torment India four seasons ago and having returned the compliment when Alastair Cook and Co. toured recently ,   and his world No.1 team turn their attention to Bangladesh for the one-off Test match.

 The wind of change that has swept the nation post-demonetisation has not left the cricket unaffected what with sweeping reforms being ordered in the administration, and the Committee of Administrators (CoA) will oversee the first Test under their charge at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium beginning Thursday .
 
 From association politics to having BCCI-appointed observer Prof Ratnakar Shetty ensuring smooth conduct, the Test has passed various stages of uncertainty to become a reality , and Bangladesh, three short of their 100th Test overall, would want to make their presence felt in their first Test on Indian soil.
 
 But the small matter of stopping the immovable object that India resemble right now might prove a task beyond them like England, and before them New Zealand, discovered. The long home season comprising 13 Tests, which started in September has panned out much to the hosts' liking with there being occasions when bowlers have pulled chestnuts out of the fire and plotted memorable wins, and replacements have outshone the rest.
 
 For his all his effort in constructing a monumental edifice against England in Chennai, where he became only the second Indian to score a triple century, Karun Nair might still have to make way for Ajinkya Rahane as skipper Kohli made no bones of the fact that experience is invaluable.Wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha also re turns to the team at the expense of Parthiv Patel, who had filled in admirably .
 
 Amit Mishra's injury has opened the door for Jayant Yadav's return ­ it's unlikely they field replacement Kuldeep Yadav ­ and India should pack too many guns for Bangladesh coming off a poor New Zealand tour, where they lost a Test after dominating a few sessions of play . Lack of big match temperament has been Bangladesh's undoing as also not having played too many Test matches, but teams have discovered they can be dangerous customers in shorter formats and the Indian players have been making right noises of not taking the opposition lightly.
 
 That the pitch at the Uppal stadium has been unkind to visitors in the recent past ­ Australia failed to last the distance in the previous match here in 2013 ­ only compounds the problem for   and Co. as spin twins Ravinchandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja, who have accounted for 95 wickets between them since September, lick their lips in anticipation of another rich harvest. The offie, who claimed 28 wickets in the England series, has already voiced his liking for the pitch here that with its bounce adds an extra dimension to his wiles.
 
 The injury to Imrul Kayes may result in Soumya Sarkar opening for Bangladesh.But can spinners ­ Shakib al Hasan, Taijul Islam or Mehedi Hasan ­ can stop India's famed batting line-up from making it an open and shut case at Hyderabad?
 
 
