PUNE: What’s a wedding or   without high spirits and some actual spirits? This has been the question on the lips of many over the last few days. 

 The highway liquor ban has poured cold water on   and corporate events scheduled at venues along the highways. Now, there is a scramble by the organizers to shift venues so they could have drink back on the menu.
 
 Many venues and banquets, pre-booked for such functions, dot the highways passing through the city and, and hopeful revellers are only just beginning to realize they may very well have to forego the staple tipple.
 
 Sources in the industry said wedding and event planners have been at the receiving end of irate clients, and are busy moving their functions to outside the dreaded 500m radius. 
 
 Wedding planner Jayant Varma said, “Liquor plays an important role in functions like mehendi and sangeet. I have a sangeet in 10 days, and it’s too late to change the venue. 
 
 Clients are calling, asking us what could be done now. We told them that liquor is off the menu, which has upset them. They feel a sangeet function is incomplete and even boring without alcohol.”
 
 At a five-star hotel on Ahmednagar road, several clients cancelled venue bookings. “We normally have at least one event a day. It (the liquor ban) has been a major dampener for clients, while we have lost business. When we called our clients and informed them of our inability to serve liquor, several changed the venue,” the hotel’s general manager said.
 
 Jinendra Doshi, the co-founder of a city-based event management company, said, “We have around six weddings in April, and venues cannot be changed now as cards have already been printed. Some of these functions had earlier planned a liquor spread, but will now have to go dry. Clients had to reconcile themselves to this situation.”
 
 Meanwhile, venues that are beyond the 500m boundary have witnessed a surge in bookings.
 
 Tarun Sachwani, general manager (sales),  , said “We have also had an increase in enquiries for future group and wedding events. We expect a 25-30% surge in bookings.” 
 
