MUMBAI: The   accounted for two of the top three ranks in the final   (chartered accountancy) exams, whose results were declared on Tuesday. Raj Sheth (inset), a resident of  , topped with a score of 630 out of 800, followed by Agathiswaran S from Vellore with 602 and Krishna Gupta, again from Mumbai, a close third with 601.

 Charmi Doshi from Mulund was the topper among girls with 590 and Somil Gandhi from Mumbai was next with 578. 
 
 Sheth, whose father worked in a diamond trading firm until his recent retirement, was modest about his achievement. “I had thought I would be in the merit list but never thought I would make it to the top,” said the 24-year-old.
 
 Seth attributed his success to his parents and teachers. “I would like to say thanks to my parents, professors from my coaching class in Kalyan and my professor from Podar College, whose efforts helped me to achieve this,” he said.
 
 Of the 1.32 lakh students who appeared for the examination, a total of 10,276 candidates cleared it. The examination was held at 372 centres across the globe.
 
 
 
 After news spread about Raj Sheth topping the countrywide CA merit list, several residents and politicians from Dombivli flocked to his home in Mahalaxmi apartment on MG Road. Manoj Gharat, a local MNS leader, said, "We are happy that Raj made our city proud.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Raj's father Paresh said, “I had thought my son will pass with good marks but he made us proud by topping across the country.” Raj said he was also grateful to the firm in Ghatkopar “where I am doing my articleship”.
 
 Krishna Gupta who stood third was equally overwhelmed. He said, “My father is a CA so I was inspired by him. He motivated me. Initially I used to study for 3 hours a days and in my IPCC I secured the 19th rank. But in the final phase, when I got preparation leave from my firm I used to study for 14 hours a day.”
 
 Speaking on the success of the candidates, CA. Nilesh S. Vikamsey, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India said, “Success is no accident. It is hard work, perseverance, learning, studying, sacrifice and most of all, love for what you are doing.” 
 
 Piyush Modi,   and Nikita Pai were among the high scorers from Navi Mumbai and Siddharth Iyer and P Shreyas were the top scorers from Thane.
 
 
