HYDERABAD: In a strange twist in tale, the   (TSACS) has sought to cover up its failure in managing the fleet of mobile Integrated Counseling & Testing Centre ( ) by sacking a whistleblower early this month.

 The victim-M Ramulu, working as ICTC supervisor at   district on contract basis till February 4, 2017 has been terminated from his service by TSACS, more than two years after TOI broke a story on February 28, 2015 on a scam involving a ICTC mobile van in Ranga Reddy district lying parked in a garage for close to one year (2014-15) but officials falsely declaring that the implementation was `satisfactory'. Though it was a city NGO Asara that blew the lid off the scam by bringing it to the notice of Ranga Reddy district collectorate in a complaint during Prajavani grievance redressal programme, Ramulu came under a scanner and was issued marching order first on December 1, 2015 and for the second time again on February 4, 2017.
 
 When contacted,  , commissioner of health and family welfare, Telangana and project director, TSACS said that action against Ramulu was taken as per rules. When asked about nonfunctioning mobile ICTC vans in the state, she said, “There is budget issue but these mobile ICTC vans will soon hit streets.“ “The filmsy ground under which I was removed was said to be several complaints received by the   during my contractual service under TSACS besides so called misconducts I allegedly committed. I have been targeted despite the fact that its management is entrusted to an NGO,“ said M Ramulu. This prompted him to turn into an Right to Information Act (RTI) activist seeking details of all the 10 mobile ICTC vans running in the state and expenses thereof incurred by the government in the month of December, 2015. What's ironic is that none of the 10 mobile ICTC vans -which are supposed to visit high risk areas for conducting HIV tests on vulnerable groups -sanctioned in each district in Telangana is working as the operations and management of these vans were shifted to specific NGOs but they backed out due to fund shortage. Even the stationary ICTC units in the state numbering 17 including five in Hyderabad are not properly functioning due to shortage of testing kits.
 
 “None of the ICTC units in the state are functioning properly due to gross mismanagement, fund shortage and lack of testing equipment necessary for conducting HIV tests,“ alleged Mujtaba Hasan Askari, Managing Trustee & President, NGO Helping Hand Foundation. For the record, Telangana state recorded 11,846 new HIV positive cases in 2016, taking the overall people living with HIVAIDS in the state to 1.73 lakh now.
 
