...and delving deeper. Even as Kolkata’s skyline rises upwards, the depths of the city are also being plumbed. And what once proudly stood the tallest will soon be dwarfed because only the sky is the limit now

 As the city’s skyline grows taller, buildings are going deeper into the earth’s crust. When construction began on the 35-storeyed South City project just over a decade ago, engineers went 50 metres (or 16 floors) down under to build a strong foundation. The 45-storeyed Urbana project then went 55 metres or 18 floors below the earth to anchor it. Now, the 63-storeyed building christened The 42 on Chowringhee that is under construction has gone 62 metres or 20 floors deep to keep the slender skyscraper rooted to the ground. Engineers say it won’t be long before a building — from the foundation to the roof — touches the 100-floor milestone.
 
 There is another century that the city scored in 2008, when four towers at South City and four at Hiland Woods were completed. At 117 metres, they pierced the 100-metre ceiling after the 91-metre Chatterjee International had reigned supreme as the tallest building in Kolkata for 32 years. In fact, these two buildings also signalled a shift from the tallest structures coming up in the Chowringhee area. If the city’s business district was home to the original tallest, the new hot spot is along the EM Bypass.
 
 In the past nine years, the tallest building record has been repeatedly breached, with 31 buildings in the city taller than Chatterjee International. Of them, 25 are 100 metres or more. Right now, there are 90 buildings under construction in Kolkata that are over 90 metres tall.
 
 If the race to a 100-metre tall building took over three centuries in Kolkata, the 150-metre challenge was achieved in 2014, merely six years after South City and Hiland Woods. Less than two years on, The 42 breached the 200-metre mark and continued to soar. Civil construction on the skyscraper was completed in end-February and the tower now touches 260 metres. The developers plan to add a 15-metre decorative crown if it gets a KMC nod. That will take the height to 275 metres. Urbana Twisted Tower, currently on hold, was designed to scale 300 metres.
 
 However, a 100-storeyed building still remains a long shot, not because of engineering challenges but because of lack of a land parcel in the heart of the city that would make the project commercially viable. “Beyond 40 storeys, the construction cost increases in geometric progression. Hence, for a project to be viable, it has to be located in Kolkata proper, where the price can be realized. Getting hold of a large parcel of land in the city is a challenge,” explains Merlin Projects director Sushil Mohta.
 
 Developer Pradeep Sureka says 20 storeys is now the new norm of high-rise development in Kolkata, just as four storeys had become in the 1960s and 1970s and six storeys in the 1980s. “With space in the city a major constraint, developments in Kolkata will be vertical. Most of the buildings will be 20-25 stories, as land parcels are small. If there is a large chunk of prime land, the sky will be the limit,” he feels.
 
 Alcove Realty director Amarnath Shroff is certain the 100-storey barrier will be broken before the end of the decade. Currently leading The 42 (the Rs 1,500-crore project is being developed by a consortium of developers comprising Mani Group, Alcove Realty, Diamond Group and Sattva Group) that is thrice as tall as Tata Centre, Shroff has his eyes set on a 100-floor building that will soar more than 375 metres, a full 100 metres taller than The 42.
 
 That, though, will require some serious foundation. Engineers explained that to scale that high, the foundation would have to go over 100 metres deep or equivalent to 35 stories underground. In The 42, piling took nine months. The 56-metre pile with a 6-metre raft has 3,400 tonnes of steel. While regular 20-storeyed buildings have a pile bore diameter of 600mm, in this building, the diameter of friction pile is twice the width, at 1.2 metres. “The raft or block of concrete and steel that will actually hold the building against lateral winds and seismic forces took six months,” explains Shroff, adding that the building is designed and constructed to not only withstand a severe cyclone of 200kmph and earthquake measuring 8 on the Richter scale, it also has damper tanks on the roof to control the sway beyond a degree that would make residents dizzy. The damper tanks comprise multiple chambers and 1.5 lakh litres of water that moves from one to another when the building sways to create a counter-force that will resist the sway.
 
 Not just cyclones and earthquakes, there is another threat to tall buildings that needs to be factored in: fire. Fighting fire in buildings over 40 storeys high is a challenge, given that ground-based firefighting equipment can operate to only a certain height. So, the emphasis is on early fire detection and suppression from within the building. In The 42, there are three water tanks — one at the 20th level, the other at the 40th and the final one on the roof. “It is essentially three tall buildings standing atop each other, with each independently capable of fighting fire,” Shroff says.
 
 For buildings that scale 80 storeys or above, designers and developers will have to factor in an additional safety device — inflatable slides, through which residents can escape in minutes. Tall buildings in Mumbai and Bengaluru are already putting such equipment in place.
 
 Urbana project manager Hemangshu Pathak says that while   look fabulous, a third of the building that is hidden from view below the earth is the portion that matters the most. “Foundation is important for all buildings. But it becomes more critical as one goes higher. For, they have to carry not only the dead and live load of the building, they also have to account for the lateral loads like wind and earthquake. Foundations of tall buildings have to carry a tremendous amount of horizontal load,” he says, adding The Urbana has core walls to dampen the sway.
 
 Before construction starts on the skyscrapers, computer-simulated 3D drawings undergo a series of tests, including wind and seismic checks, to understand how they will behave in a cyclone or earthquake. Thereafter, wind tunnel tests are done, similar to cars that undergo such tests to enhance the aerodynamics and reduce drag.
 
 Pathak says buildings are designed to sway when lateral forces are applied. If they were rigid constructions, they would have run the risk of snapping close to the base. “Buildings that don’t use dampers to control the sway have a core like the towers at Urbana do. Also, tall structures have shear walls that also add to the building’s strength,” he explains. Incidentally, the magnitude 7.8 Nepal earthquake in April 2015 that jolted the city caused Urbana to settle 1mm into the earth.
 
 Constructing the tall buildings also pose challenges of pumping up the concrete as well as materials like iron rods and shutters to great heights. Use of powerful pumps to drive the ready-mix concrete up 40-60 floors and tower cranes to lift material have now become standard practice in construction of high-rises in Kolkata. For construction workers, special elevators are installed along the exterior wall to scale the heights.
 
 So, have engineers now become more important than architects? No, says Gita Balakrishnan, chairperson of the Indian Institute of Architecture, Bengal chapter. “It is architects who design the buildings and get them engineered. The architect is more central to the construction of high-rises, with other professionals revolving around him or her. It is the architect’s vision that everyone else strives to realize,” she explains.
 
 With Kolkata’s skyline rapidly changing, Balakrishnan hopes fellow architects and developers will manage the change to ensure that the skyscrapers don’t obliterate the remarkable architecture that humble houses in Kolkata possess. It is a concern that many of her fellow architects share.
 
 “Kolkata has been a melting pot of various influences and has embraced them all gently. Some of the rather fast-paced development seen in the last two decades has forged its own path rather than making any effort to accommodate or respect the past. It is time we took a moment to pause and change tack as and where required,” she urges.
 
 
