PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Happy Streets in its second stint in Pimpri Chinchwad, got a rousing welcome at Pimple Saudagar on a relatively cold Sunday morning. 

 People from areas like Hinjewadi, Pimple Gurav, Pimpri, Rahatni, Kalewadi and Sangvi had gathered at the venue Kokane chowk to Swaraj chowk to participate in the much-loved community event.
 
 The crowd was much larger than that in last Sunday’s event. Hundreds of people from all age groups indulged in fun-filled activities like zumba, cycling, meditation, badminton, football, music, live VJ performances and drum-circle sessions. Badminton courts and football arenas were chalked out for the athletic kind.
 
 Chetan Kabra from Pimple Saudagar who had come to last Sunday’s event as well said, “It’s fun and exciting for all age groups. Normally, people tend to sleep more on Sunday morning. However, with Happy Streets, people get rejuvenated for the entire week.” Vedant Gugale, a teenager from Pimple Gurav, who had come to play badminton said, “I learnt different rhythms at the multiple drum-circle sessions. It was fun.”
 
 Participants started pouring in from as early as 7am. Harshavardhan Devendra Parate, from Pimple Gurav said, “I have performed at various stage shows. However, singing on the VJ Live stage was a unique experience.”
 
 People also participated in team activities like musical chair, happy human chain, tug-of-war, and rope skipping. Wasim K and his teenaged son Arshad had come all the way from Pimpri. “Arshad came for cycling. The roads being vehicle-free, are so much fun for the kids,” Wasim said.
 
 Yoga and meditation provided many a soothing experience. Besides fun and fitness, social causes were promoted at the event.   and PCMC organized an eye-donation awareness cum registration programme.
 
 Dinesh Bafna, who had come with his family from Pimpri, said he was looking forward to the next edition of Happy Streets. Abhishek Pramane from Sangvi said, “Activities like Zumba, yoga and meditation are revitalizing.”
 
 Happy Streets is organized by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and  . The event, powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers, is aimed at popularising vehicle-free roads to engaging in community activities. 
 
