HYDERABAD: After being strip-searched in jail, a prisoner has raised the demand for `right to privacy'. And for a change, prisons department authorities did not brush aside the complaint.Instead, not only was he provided a platform to vent his grievance, measures were taken to have set up separate cabins for conducting a security check, without strip-search in public.

 When a person is sent to jail, he has to undergo a complete strip-search. This is to ensure he is not smuggling weapons or sharp objects into barracks. Prisoner is made to remove his shirt and trouser. If prisons staff is still not satisfied, he's forced to remove his undergarments as well. The strip search may also take place when a prisoner goes for court hearings and returns. All those sent to court may be asked to stand in queue and made to remove clothes to ensure nothing prohibited is being brought back to jail.
 
 A few days ago, a 50-yearold prisoner walked into the office of the Director-General, Prisons. He was an undertrial at Chanchalguda jail and is out on bail. DG Prisons V K Singh, who heard his complaints about the functioning of the jail, asked the prisoner to accompany him to a conference in which prisons officials from across the state were participating.The undertrial was given the liberty to talk and he spoke for 45 minutes on what he felt was wrong in jails. He said the food was unpalatable. He was informed it's prisoners who cook the food. When he complained about quality of rice, he was told the civil supplies department supplies the grains.
 
 “But I have my  . Why should I be strip-searched in front of others in the jail,“ he asked.This spurred   to sit up and take notice. “He has a valid point. A prisoner should be treated with dignity like any other citizen,“ V K Singh told TOI.“A complete search is mandatory for security reasons as per manual. But with the issue of privacy being raised, we will facilitate small compartments in jails where security search can be conducted by ensuring the privacy of prisoners,“ said Singh.
 
