London barrister   has become the youngest Sikh in the world to be awarded the   (OBE). The honour marks the recognition of the contribution of the   in the UK.

 Born and brought up in London, his family traces its origins to the Doaba region of Punjab. "I feel immensely proud to have been honoured with an OBE. It was a complete surprise, and it is heartening to know that my work on social cohesion and faith communities over last 7 years has been recognized in such a significant way," he says.
 
 Singh is the Founding Chair of an organization called   and the Chair of the  , representing the interests of nine main faith communities in London - Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Zoroastrian, and Baha'i communities.
 
 "We have several nation-wide projects, including one which is looking at the relationships between the Hindu, Sikh and Muslim communities in pre-Partition India, during the Partition, and in present-day Britain," says Singh.
 
 City Sikhs was founded in 2010 by young Sikh professionals working in and around Central London. Singh elaborates, "It was initially a professional networking organisation. However, our careers meant that we had a professional approach towards how we conducted our work in the community, and we were asked to get more involved in representing the views of the Sikh community on projects as time went on. We were a stakeholder in the London Olympics and with the English Football Association. From there, we became more involved in advising government departments, and we are now recognized as being one of the leading Sikh community organizations in Britain with over 6,000 members. We organize events that help our members get to understand their culture and heritage, as well as inspirational lectures and panel discussions. We are also the lead partner in the British Sikh Report, which is a strategic document for Sikhs published every year since 2013 and which provides statistical data about the British Sikh community."
 
