ncient   Mother Nature as the womb from where   and, in an analogy to human life, it was the female form that was regarded as   After all, it was the woman who blossomed to bear new life, and those early traditions developed into rituals centered on various stages in her life. 

 These celebrations continue till date, albeit in more modern guises, and the modern day baby shower or ‘Fulam’ as it is known in Goa among the Hindus, is one such practice that is a salute to procreation and new life.
 
 ‘Fulam’ is a happy occasion, one that has at its center the expectant mother, heavy with her child, decked out in flowers and splendidly costumed in a traditional saree to represent the Hindu goddess Lakshmi or Saraswati, and being showered with sweets. The woman, her family and well-wishers gather around to bless her and whisper advice about motherhood into her ears, all wrapped in a feeling of joyous anticipation.
 
 In all of this, the roots of the festival have mostly been forgotten. Most associate the celebration with the simplistic marking of a woman’s transition to motherhood, and, in keeping with that momentous milestone in her life, believe it to be nothing more than a celebratory affair designed to keep the mother-to-be happy.
 
 
 
 
 The knowledge related to the exotic foundation of this tradition, is however known only to those few who have made it their business to study the philosophy behind such modern-day practices, tracing back to the time when life was in sync with nature and, as such, to the cycle of birth life and death.
 
 
 
 
 Researcher Pandurang Phaldesai extends the mother goddess ideology to encompass the tradition of the cycle of life. “The Hindu tradition,” he says, “has various ‘sanskars’ related to major lifecycle milestones from birth to death covering, in between, puberty, marriage and conception (Fulam).”
 
 
 
 
 Phaldesai draws attention to another minor version of the ‘Fulam’ that is held during the woman’s first Gudi Padwa (spring festival) after marriage. “Called ‘pasadi’ this small scale version of Fulam is held in the mother’s house and it is symbolic of the anticipation of new life, for the woman to step into a new phase – motherhood,” he says adding that the ‘votti bharop’ ritual is performed. This ritual is a literal manifestation of the blessing that the woman’s womb may always be blessed, and full and warm.
 
 
 
 
 During ‘Fulam’, the coconut is left out of the ‘votti’, “as it is symbolic of the male seed” and the woman is considered “full and in no need of it”, Naik says. “Instead, a ladoo or a large coconut barfi is placed in the ‘pallu’ of the saree,” she adds, and explains that here the barfi is symbolic of the desire for a girl child.
 
 Sweets, an integral and auspicious part of the event, allude to the needs and sex of the unborn child. As part of the ceremony, the woman is asked to choose between a laddo and a barfi (locally called ‘kaap’) and if she chooses the barfi it is believed that she will bear a girl.
 
 So, it is understood that no matter how much we wrap our traditions in gaiety and the superficial adaptations, an informed look at the practices, reveals an exciting history of a past bringing a better understanding of social customs and psychologies.
 
