Bengaluru: Over 100   under the banner of Bangalore Apartment Federation (BAF) have petitioned   Siddaramaiah against BWSSB’s rules on installation of sewage treatment plants ( ) and dual pipelines, and payment of retrospective tax and hefty penalties. The petition on Change.org has garnered 744 signatures since Wednesday.

 On September 21, 2016, BWSSB issued a notification asking apartment complexes to set up STPs and dual pipelines till October 31. It said those who failed to awould be penalized and their water connections would be snapped. They would have to pay a penalty amounting to 25% of the water bill for three months, which would increase to 50% after six months.The move came after Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) officials blamed sewage inflow for the froth at Bellandur Lake, following which KSPCB directed BWSSB to do the needful.
 
 However, citizens argue that   in core Bengaluru areas are already connected to the board’s sewerage network. Srikanth Narasimhan, general council member of BAF, said, “If a building was constructed in 2000 and complied with all the rules at that time, it will still be charged retrospective sewerage tax from the date of occupancy. Even the penalties are unreasonable. While old apartment complexes don’t have enough space for an STP, their walls may be damaged if existing water pipelines are broken to instal dual pipelines.” If an STP is set up in a hurry, the area may turn into a breeding ground for mosquitoes posing health risks to residents, he reasoned.
 
 KV Prasanna is a resident of Brigade Millenium in JP Nagar, a complex with 715 housing units. Around 650 families pay water bills to the tune of Rs four lakh every month. “First, BWSSB made it mandatory to set up rainwater harvesting systems and we complied. Then   wanted us to set up wet waste composting systems, and segregate dry and wet waste. We did that too. We are left with no space to build STPs,” he rued.
 
 “The penalties were decided without giving us a patient hearing. How can so much fine be collected from residents? We have not even incorporated the sum in the maintenance charges,” Prasanna added.
 
 BAF is also irked with the 300% hike in water and sanitary charges which was introduced three years ago when BWSSB put complexes with over 20 units in the bracket of bulk consumers.
 
 Arun Kumar from Mantri Greens in Malleswaram said it is unfair to levy penalties on apartments in areas which don’t get BWSSB water. “The board has been promising to increase its coverage but to no avail. We plan to approach the court as BWSSB has given us no written assurance on extending the deadline or reducing the fines,” he added.
 
 WHAT PLEA SAYS
 
 It is with extreme anguish that we are writing to you as residents of apartments in Bengaluru, who are being continuously harassed and unfairly treated by civic agencies, especially BWSSB. We were saddled with a more than 300% hike in water tariff three years ago, and called bulk consumers, when we are no different from individual home owners. This caused a huge burden to people living in apartment complexes, especially pensioners, widows and senior citizens. And now, BWSSB has started imposing penalties on apartments in Bengaluru mandating them to implement STPs and the dual piping system with retrospective effect, without understanding the technical or practical aspects... It can pose serious environmental hazards. Various technical experts have commented on the non-feasibility of the move...We would be very happy to engage in a constructive dialogue with the government and civic bodies to find solutions.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The water board’s rather stringent   norms may be aimed at streamlining the city’s poor sewerage system, but there’s scope for some dilution. While it is viable to instal STPs in huge apartment complexes, smaller ones barely have room for the facility. Apart from the lack of space, factors like environmental concerns, cost and structural issues like overhauling the plumbing system should prompt the civic body to re-examine the move and make alterations where necessary. Even stiff penalties need a relook, given that no public consultation was held before arriving at the decision. Finally, the stakeholders need to reach a middle ground in the larger interest of Bengaluru.
 
 
