BATHINDA: AAP might have failed in putting up a good show in the Punjab assembly elections but it gained considerably in the  , represented by former chief minister  's daughter-in-law and  . AAP succeeded in winning five out of the nine assembly segments falling in Bathinda parliamentary constituency.

 Despite a massive victory in the state, Congress failed to maintain its tally of three segments it won in the 2012 assembly and 2014  . It could win only from two assembly segments of the Bathinda parliamentary constituency. SAD came down to two from six segments each it had won earlier in the 2012 assembly and 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 "Loss in seven of the nine assembly segments is being seen as an alarming signal for Harsimrat Badal in the 2019 parliamentary elections," said a senior Akali leader.
 
 In the 2012 assembly polls, SAD had won six segments and Congress three. After Talwandi Sabo MLA Jeet Mohinder Sidhu had joined Akali Dal, the party had increased its tally to seven as he won the bypoll in 2014 from the constituency.
 
 AAP has won from Bathinda Rural, Talwandi Sabo, Maur, Mansa and Budhlada assembly segments in the Bathinda parliamentary constituency. Congress won from Bathinda Urban and Bhucho segments whereas SAD won from Lambi and Sardulgarh.
 
 Two out of five candidates of AAP are young and unmarried women. Its four winners were working professionals before taking a plunge into the political arena, three were into teaching and one an engineer.
 
 Rupinder Kaur Ruby (28), who won from Bathinda Rura), taught at a private law college for some time after completing her masters of laws (LLM). Baljinder Kaur (31), who got elected from Talwandi Sabo, also taught at a private degree college in Fatehgarh Sahib after completing her master of philosophy (M Phil) in English.
 
 Budhram (60), who was elected from Budhlada, had retired as a school principal. Najar Singh Mansahia (56), who retired as executive engineer from Punjab Pollution Control Board, had done B Tech in civil engineering. Jagdev Singh Kamalu (54), who won from Maur, is a matriculate.
 
 "AAP has made big inroads in the Bathinda parliamentary constituency and we are sure to give sleepless nights to Union minister Harsimrat in 2019," said Baljinder.
 
