NAGPUR: The Electric Loco Shed,  , under Central Railway’s Nagpur division has achieved a milestone by completing maintenance of 222 locos in the current financial year. This is already 47 locos more than its capacity to overhaul 175 locos each year. The   is in process of increasing Shed’s capacity to 200 locos which would pave way for even higher output in coming years.

 Loco shed at Ajni is considered best among 30 loco sheds in the country. In 2009-10 railway budget sanctioned works to increase its capacity from 120 to 175. However, in July 2014, even before expansion, it had flagged off its 200th locomotive.
 
 The shed was set up on September 22, 1990, to maintain goods train locomotives. In the past 27 years, it has come a long way and is now maintaining all types of locomotives that haul goods trains as well as premium trains like Rajdhani, Duronto and other mail/express ones.
 
 Namdeo Rabade, senior divisional electric engineer (SrDEE) for traction rolling stock (TRS), told TOI divisional railway manager (DRM) Brijesh Kumar Gupta was pushing for speedy expansion. Gupta also visited the shed last week.
 
 The entire facility is spread over 18 acres of which the shed itself covers three acres. Now it is being expanded. The area in repair section has been extended and a 50-tonne capacity crane has been added. Similarly, auxiliary changing, transformer changing, work for underground pits each for inspection and testing and for carrying major schedules are being constructed. Besides, an electronic lab having advanced testing facilities for various type of electronic cards used in 3-phase WAP 7 & WAP 9 locos will also be in place. The shed has switched to LED lighting, which has helped save almost 10% energy till last month.
 
 “This was possible owing to several factors like hi-tech locos with better technology, procuring of new machines and additional staff, besides better funds flow. In 2015-16,   sanctioned Rs10.75 crore and this financial year it is Rs3.50 crore,” says Rabde.
 
 Rabde added another reason for exceeding maintenance target was reliability of locos, improved workshop culture, especially after installation of CCTV cameras and biometric system, besides staff welfare measures. Ajni loco shed has also reduced failure rate by 25%. “By next year, we plan to achieve a target of 250 locos,” he added.
 
