DHARAMSHALA: The looming, glistening, so-close-you-can-touch-it Dhauladhar range has been the only constant in a narrative of change here at the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association stadium.

 For one, ousted BCCI president Anurag Thakur's visage imposes its adamant presence at every opportunity. Only he is long gone, replaced by an ad-hoc committee to run affairs, and the posters have no business still being around.
 
 This was Thakur's `home ground' and the Test status was a gift, a perfect way to cap off a long season. As things turned out, though, it is now hosting the most important game of the season -an acerbic, deadlocked series which is careening its way to what can only be an ugly end for one of the teams.
 
 For the association, Plan A has replaced Plan B has replaced Plan C from the announcement of the schedule till now. In keeping with the trend, it now seems a real possibility that India may be deprived of the magnetic presence of captain   for this key tie.
 
 Kohli batted very briefly in the nets and will try his hardest to take the field, but there is also the prospect of his right shoulder not being willing to go the distance, even after a few more rounds with physio Patrick Farhat. That scenario will necessitate the introduction of Ajinkya Rahane in the Test leadership role.
 
 Team India, of course, have traditionally not been in the habit of resolving such difficult situations with quick public pronouncements.
 
 As Kohli waits to undergo yet another fitness test, most probably on Saturday morning, what will be going through the mind of the 22-year-old Shreyas Iyer, who has waited for this opportunity for two seasons now, except not ever conceiving the circumstances of debut?
 Not, surely, as an emergency replacement for the captain, with everything on the line, on an untested pitch, in rarefied air?
 And what of the seemingly unruffled Rahane himself ? Can he bring with him a dash of Kohli's chutzpah, the knack of egging the team on when all seems lost, the propulsive energy which has made India a street-fighting unit opponents are wary of needling?
 Can he make his bat talk? Rahane himself might not know the answers till the end of the Test.
 
 These are the sort of moments that shape sporting careers, and as Kohli said, “If I'm ruled out I'm sure those guys are looking at it as a game-changing moment in their lives. I've not done anything special in the series so far.“
 
 Kohli's bat may have gone silent in this series but India have other worries too, with Vijay's shoulder (he skipped the knock at nets), with the team combination, of choosing between Ishant Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar should they stick to the six-batsman lineup. Iyer, as expected, was added to the squad late on Friday but so was Mohammad Shami as India kept all options open on match eve.
 
 All this uncertainty bodes well for Australia, whose captain spent Friday morning rubbing noses with the Dalai Lama and seeking help for some recent sleepless nights.   also came up with a vote of confidence for his IPL teammate Rahane, saying, “He did a pretty good job last week when he was out on the field (as captain) in Virat's absence. He's a bit more chilled out, not quite as emotional. He understands the game well.“
 
 Smith may go in with an unchanged side in Australia's bid to win their first series in India since 2004. Then again, the 22yard strip hosting the action will itself be in constant flux, turning from a pacer's handmaiden to a batting paradise to a dry spinnerfriendly surface in no time. A Plan C may come in handy .
 
 
