MYSURU: Among the many salient talking points in the aftermath of the recently concluded Uttar Pradesh assembly elections was the BJP’s success rate in the reserved constituencies – the saffron party bagged 69 of the 85 reserved seats, long considered the bastion of Mayawati’s Bahujan Samajwadi Party. In Karnataka, political observers are keenly awaiting the results of the bypolls to the Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly segments, which they believe could indicate the dalit voting pattern in the 2018 assembly elections.

 Both the   and the   are hoping to capture the dalit voter base, which forms a huge component of the   (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and  ) vote-bank. While chief minister   has had no qualms about admitting that his government’s policies are aimed at uplifting these sections of the society, the BJP too is making efforts to win over the Ahinda vote-bank ahead of the 2018 polls.
 
 Although they lie in different districts, Nanjangud and Gundlupet are separated by just 36km, and the demographic or caste profile of both constituencies is nearly identical. The two segments are largely constituted by Lingayats, dalits, Nayaks, Uppars and Muslims, while Vokkaligas and other castes are in relatively smaller proportions.
 
 Dalit politics in the state have largely been shaped by two districts – Kolar and Chamarajanagar, of which Gundlupet is a part. Political commentators said that the young voters in the dalit communities were not entirely satisfied with the reasons given by former minister V Srinivas Prasad for quitting the Congress and throwing his lot with the BJP. “They are thinking that even if Prasad wins, it might assuage his hurt pride, but might not get him back to power,” sources said.
 
 Ahinda voters in both these constituencies, who have supported Congress all these years, have been offered an alternative in the BJP in this election. The possibility of the Congress losing the support of their loyal voters is possibly why KPCC president G Parameshwara has made it a point to visit all dalit dominated pockets in both constituencies.
 
 Both the BJP and the Congress are trying hard to woo the Muslim voters in Doddakavalande village in Nanjangud. BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje said, “Muslim supporters of Prasad will vote for the BJP. Siddaramaiah is banking on the Ahinda factor, but with dalits and many sections of the backward classes not supporting him, where is Ahinda?”
 
 Although the clashes between Lingayats and dalits in 1993 over the restoration of a temple in Badanavalu in Nanjangud are now nothing but distant memories in the minds of both communities, the BJP is still worried about Prasad’s animosity towards the upper caste.
 
