Peer   is something which can be very hard to deal with, especially during adolescence.It is a fleeting thing in all our lives, and is largely about the desire and insecurity about being accepted by all. Peers influence a person’s life, and as one grows older, he or she faces some challenging decisions.It can be anything — from trying to smoke to lying about scoring more marks than your friends. Students’ counsellor and psychologist Sushma Hebbar says,“There are a lot of expectations that one needs to fulfill to belong to a group,and be looked upon as one of them. Especially during one’s teenage years, there are a lot of things happening that is at times hard for them to figure out and understand to be able to handle the pressure. We spoke to students to find out how they deal with   pressure...

 
 I am not sure if the question needs to be about whether peer pressure is necessary or unnecessary. It is kind of unavoidable, as even parents tend to instill a sense competition in their children. It becomes a part of the cycle. It becomes a habit. Peer pressure to me, therefore, is good in a way. It urges us to perform better, and brings out the best in people. Students often get better at their work because of peer pressure.
 
 
 For me,giving into peer pressure is a big no-no,because in many cases it only makes us conform and not stand up for our principles. I also believe that all of us have a set of   that have been infused into us over time.When one is asked to do something that goes against these set of morals, there is a conflict between the conscience and the mind.
 
 
 When you let yourself sink into peer pressure, you’re not only succumbing to others’ wishes, but you may also be giving way to a bigger purpose that you were moulded for. Never deviate from the goal you’ve set, because sometimes we try to blend into our social groups and that affects our entire course to that goal. It depends on the peer group you’re in. Like two sides of a coin, I’ve had some amazing people who’ve believed in me, and then I’ve had people who put me down.
 
 
 Since we have a lot of friends, we want to please all of them, even when we don’t really want to. Even if it is something we do not want to do, we would agree to it just to please them.
 
 
 
 Talk to someone. Explaining what you are going through when you feel this pressure usually helps. Confide in your parents.
 Sit back and analyse why you want to be part of a particular peer group. If the positive points out way the negative, it will make you feel less under pressure.
 Never lose your self-esteem, because that is when peer pressure gets the better out of you.
 Analyze your strengths and weaknesses. Think about what you want to achieve in life and how to achieve it.
 Saying NO doesn’t make you a weakling. It means that you know the difference between the right and the wrong.
 
 -Rachel.Windsor@timesgroup.com
 
