NEW DELHI: There was an air of festivity present at North   on Thursday. What was missing during the admission process was brought into full form at the   on the   of the academic session. For once, the tense atmosphere was several degrees cooler, thanks to the visible joy and happy shrieks of freshers with their laughter carrying beyond the walls of the colleges.

 Though the first day is supposed to be an intimidating experience for the fresh school passouts, they were put at ease by experienced senior students and teachers. “The first day is very unnerving because we don’t have any idea about the college norms. But it was wonderful to see our seniors make us feel comfortable and familiarise us with the place,” said Tanya, a first-year political science student at Miranda House.
 
 Freshers, happy to be finally out of school, were also excited about their newfound independence. However, this very independence had turned into sudden loneliness for a few students. Bandita, a fresher from Cuttack, was found sobbing outside a college. She was being comforted by a friend whose eyes were also welling up with tears. “I miss home,” said a teary-eyed Bandita.
 
 The cheerful atmosphere on the campus was hard to miss, especially at Hansraj College. The college had organised a street play for its students on ragging. It was a hit among students who had lined up the aisles of the auditorium to take a peek at the performance.
 
 Kamala Nehru College (KNC), too, decided to use the platform to deal with the issue of ragging. “The talents of our students were showcased at a programme where the different societies of the college were also introduced. We also informed the new students about the 22 committees that deal with ragging, sexual harassment, apart from other issues,” said KNC principal Kalpana Bhakuni.
 
 This is also the time freshers make an entry into the cultural space of the university and all that it has to offer. KNC society members met with many freshers on Day 1, bringing students like Abhisha Bhasin closer to picking a society of her choice. The BCom(P) student said she hadn’t decided on the society, but was sure to make use of the cultural exposure the college offers.
 
 The performance by students was also a show of might by colleges and the culture freshers are going to be a part of. “I got a taste of the real Hinduite culture when I saw the dramatics society perform its play on hypernationalism today,” said Satwik Pal, a fresher at Hindu College.
 
 “I found that it is a tradition for Ibtida to perform on the orientation day to welcome new students. They put up a street play despite the rain. Watching them, I felt proud to be part of this college culture,” Pal added.
 
 Similarly, Lady Shri Ram College put up a hilarious show on the backbreaking admission season. The play also took a jibe at PG owners who often confuse young students looking for accommodation. The freshers were also an audience to two LSR alumni, IFS officer Amrita Banerjee and IPS officer Tejaswi Gautam, who shared their experiences and encouraged them to pursue their dreams.
 
 Some colleges, like Kirorimal College, got down to business on Day 1. After their orientation on Wednesday, freshers got to attend their first college lectures. “Initially, I had mixed feelings about my college. However, attending classes today has changed my perspective,” said Tathagat Singh, who is pursuing Economics Hons.
 
 “The faculty is competent and the lectures were fun. I also managed to make friends in class and explore the famous spots around North Campus during the breaks,” Singh added.
 
