CHENNAI: AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala, who was convicted in the disproportionate asset case, left Golden Bay beach resort in a car with her relative T T V Dinakaran at 9.40pm on Tuesday for Chennai. Former minister K A Sengottaiyan left by another car in her convoy while MLAs continued to stay in the resort. Sasikala is likely to board a flight to Bengaluru at 11pm on Tuesday. She is likely to surrender before a Bengaluru court on February 15. 

 MPs, ministers and legislators of Sasikala camp came down heavily on chief minister O Panneerselvam and his supporters for reportedly welcoming the verdict that convicted late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. "When we are pained over the verdict, they are celebrating. It revealed that they are working against the party," said Rajya Sabha MP Navaneetha Krishnan.Earlier in the day police took control of resort as soon as the Supreme Court upheld conviction of Sasikala and two others. Much of the police force left around 8pm after they failed to convince the MLAs camping there since February 8 to vacate the resort.
 
 There was a power disruption in the area leading to speculation that police disconnected the supply to force the MLAs to leave the resort. Power supply was restored within a few minutes. 
 
 Earlier, a police team led by inspector general of police (north zone) N Senthamarai Kannan that entered the resort held discussions with Sasikala, ministers and MLAs, urging them to vacate the resort in batches. Superintendents of police Mutharasi (Kancheepuram), Vijayakumar (Cuddalore) and P Pakalavan (Vellore) accompanied Senthamarai Kannan while IGP (homeguards) K Periaiah and IGP Varadaraju kept guard in the presence of two teams of striking force outside the resort.
 
 Police sources said a few ministers and MLAs were reluctant to move out and threatened that they would stage a dharna if they were forcibly sent out of the resort. Pro-Sasikala ministers and legislators came in batches and repeatedly told journalists that they had been staying together voluntarily since Wednesday night.
 
 But, they didn't answer journalists' queries on several issues, including the number of MLAs staying in the resort and charges levelled by Madurai (South) MLA S S Saravanan after escaping from the resort dressed in casual clothes. They decided to stay in the resort until Governor invites their new legislature party leader Eddapadi K Palanisamy to form the government.
 
 Police arrested six people on charges of illegal entry into the resort while more than a dozen 'private guards' who have been intimidating journalists went missing. The district administration has clamped Section 144 in the areas coming under the jurisdiction of Koovathur police station. 
 
 
