KOLKATA: Trinamool MP   on Sunday dragged Union minister  's name into the  . "He was very close to Kundu (Rose Valley boss)," Pal said on Sunday. 

  Supriyo, on the other hand, reacted saying he was contemplating legal action. "I have asked TV channels to provide me the footage where he and his wife have named me. I already have some and based on those, I have instructed my lawyers to immediately explore the options for a stringent defamation case. Whatever Derek posted on Twitter or Didi said (though from the CM's chair) are political accusations, a very cliche behaviour by politicians. I have to take that in my stride but saying things while in CBI custody is a pretty serious misdemeanour. I am contemplating serious legal options against him." 
 
  Meanwhile, CBI officers got new leads on investments in Tollywood and the industry's Rose Valley connections after the Trinamool MP came up with some new names on Sunday. Pal has reportedly named a director and an actress who frequented Rose Valley's Sector V office. 
 
 According to sources, Pal told investigators that he flew to Goa three years ago with a starlet and a Tollywood director while Rose Valley purchased tickets for them. Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu reportedly joined them later at the Goa meeting with another actor "close to  ". Pal also told investigators that the list of co-passengers for Kundu's foreign trips would reveal new links.
 
 Emerging after medical examination on Sunday, Pal told reporters that more names would be revealed. "I am absolutely not guilty... Many new names will come up... Everything will be proved eventually," he said.
 
  Investigators have also come across a relative of Pal who was given a job at a Rose Valley hotel on his recommendation. 
 
  CBI sources claimed Pal's relation with Kundu had soured in the last few years. "Though Pal had resigned as a member of the board of directors, he used to frequent Kundu's office. After they had a tiff over investment in a film in 2014, Kundu stopped taking Pal's calls," said a CBI officer. Asked if Kundu made him a scapegoat, Pal said, "It seems like that." Tapas's wife Nandini said: "He has never done anything illegal. He was a director of the company for five and a half months. They paid him in cheques. Investigators have alleged that Tapas used to take advantage of his position at the firm. What advantage Kundu can give him?," she said.
 
 CBI also rejected Trinamool MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay's plea to give him time till January 18 to appear before them. Sudip, who has thrice been summoned by the CBI in the  , failed to appear on December 30. “We have extended it till January 3. It can't be extended further,“ said a sleuth.
 
 
