NAGPUR: Chairman of the special task force on agrarian crisis,  , firmly believes that farm loan waiver is not a panacea of all ills ailing the farm sector in the state.

 Tiwari is also confident that certain measures taken by the   government in the last two years to address   would yield positive results in near future.
 
 The budget session of the state legislature that commenced last week has been repeatedly disrupted with the Congress-NCP opposition stalling all proceedings to press their demand for complete loan waiver to all farmers in the state. The NCP also wants fresh interest-free loans to farmers after waiver of old dues. The Shiv Sena, though ruling partner with the BJP, is also supporting the demand of farm loan waiver.
 
 The Fadnavis government is likely to be cornered in the coming days on the issue, more so as the BJP has promised a farm loan waiver in Uttar Pradesh as its election promise. With the BJP winning massive majority in the northern state, it will be obliged now to honour the poll promise in coming days.
 
 If they do it in UP, the clamour for loan waiver is sure to echo in several states, including Maharashtra, where farm suicides have seen a sharp rise in recent months. The situation is worst in Marathwada, with over 100 farmer suicides recorded in last three months.
 
 “Suicides in drought-hit pockets of newly added distressed districts of Latur and Beed are indeed a matter of concern for the government. But the state has taken several steps in last year or so like clearing pendency of agriculture pump connections, diversion of crops, separation of power lines in rural areas for non-farm use. 
 
 “The Jalyukta Shivar project for water conservation at village level has been taken up on massive scale. All these measures will start showing results and will reduce impact of recurring drought conditions,” said Tiwari.
 
 “The experience of 2006 when farm loans were waived in 71 districts across the country by the then   government showed that it only benefited large farmers and the district cooperative banks whose books got clean-up,” said Tiwari.
 
 “Loan waiver does not touch the small and marginal farmers who need the relief most and form vulnerable group because hardly 40% of this group has access to institutional finance,,” explained Tiwari. “Only when this lacuna is removed and more farmers are covered by banks’ loan net can any waiver be effective,” Tiwari added.
 
