RANCHI: The state capital may again lag behind other cities when Swachh Sarvekshan 2017 begins its   of 500 cities on Thursday.

  and choked drains continue to be a common site. Ranchi was ranked 61 among the 73 cities listed in 2016 Swachh Sarvekshan. 
 
  appears to have made very little efforts to improve the civic conditions in the city.
 
 Admitting lapses on the part of the administration, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra said, "Yes, this survey will be a big challenge for us. The work progress has been slow and the company outsourced for garbage disposal has still not taken over the entire city. However, we are trying our best to achieve a better ranking."
 
 Door-to-door garbage collection and disposal of solid waste is one of the major determinants of the survey. To achieve this, work was outsourced to private company Essel Infra. 
 
 However, it has been found that the company has started work in only 12 out of the 55 wards.
 
 Deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijayavargiya said, "The situation this year is way better than last year. The door-to-door collection will begin in 12 more wards this week and all the wards will be covered this month."
 
 As far as construction of public toilets is concerned, 70 new toilets were constructed across the city. However, these toilets are still not opened for use.
 
 "We have installed around 200 dustbins on MG Road and posters and hoardings have been put up across the city to create awareness. Also, we now have a total of 120 public toilets across the city. The new toilets will be opened in two-three days."
 
 Under Swachcha Sarvekshan, cities would be marked on a scale of 2,000. Out of this, 900 marks will be based on the feedback from urban local bodies, 600 on the feedback of the citizens and 500 on the observation team by the survey team.
 
 Out of the three categories mentioned, feedback of the citizens and direct observation appears to be a major challenge.
 
  "I am not at all satisfied by the way the RMC is working. If given a chance, I would probably give them negative scores," Anand Singh, one of the citzens, said.
 
 Ranchi is among the 500 cities which will be surveyed on the basis of garbage collection and disposal, construction of community toilets, strategies for reduction in open defecation among other factors.
 
 
