NEW DELHI: Based on forensic evidence, the   has said “evidentiary value” of loose papers and electronic documents seized in raids on   and which refer to alleged pay-offs to politicians cannot be proved but has assessed the Subroto Roy-led firm’s income at Rs 1,911 crore.

 The Sahara case has been at the centre of a political storm as Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and AAP chief   have alleged that the entries, along with those recovered from Birla group, point to pay-offs to PM   when he was Gujarat CM. 
 
 However, the documents, which contain references to other BJP members as well as non-NDA politicians, have been found to be unverifiable by the commission.
 
 The commission has reached an assessment for the seven-year period ending 2015-16 (assessment year) against the company’s contention that it had incurred losses of Rs 2,279 crore during this period.
 
 The contention of losses has not been upheld but allowed set off for certain losses claimed by the company.
 
 While the Settlement Commission — which is a forum that can be tapped by taxpayers to settle a tax dispute only once — has allowed for a set off for losses incurred by Sahara India between 2009-10 and 2013-14 assessment years, it has asked the company to pay tax on Rs 137.58 crore for the assessment year 2015-16 (financial year 2014-15). The   department has been asked to compute the tax and interest on this amount.
 
 The tax forum accepted the contention that documents seized during the raids were “loose papers and electronic documents were fabricated and had no evidentiary value”.
 
 On the other hand, it included an additional income of Rs 1,217 crore by the company based on revision made by Sahara. Apart from citing a forensic report of the Directorate of Forensic Science, Sahara had also argued that the entries by two of its employees were “maliciously made to malign one of its employees”.
 
 “The papers seen by us during the course of the 245D (4) proceedings do not throw much light on the veracity of the payment or receipt as depicted therein. We have also noted that no corroborative evidence was collected by the department,” the commission said in its findings.
 
 “Having considered carefully the rival arguments on this issue we are of the view that ownership of documents etc. cannot be totally denied, however, evidentiary value of loose papers and electronic documents could not be proved and the arguments of the AR (authorised representative of the company) are supported by the decisions of the Hon’ble Apex Court on this issue,” the commission said.
 
 It also said that around Rs 120 crore seized during raids were unexplained and will be treated as additional income. Another Rs 16 crore of foreign currency transactions based on documents seized and a further Rs 380-odd crore of unexplained cash have been added to the income.
 
 “Rs 137.58 crore will be taxed under section 69A in assessment year 2015-16 as mentioned in para 4.4.3 and balance credit for loss up to the assessment year 2013-14 has to be allowed in assessment year 2014-15 and 2015-16,” according to the order of the commission.
 
 The case relates to the search and seizure operation carried out by the income tax department on several premises of   on November 22, 2011. Sahara India had approached the commission on August 18, 2016 but it was rejected on August 31 on the ground that it did not fulfil the criteria for settlement of cases exceeding Rs 50 lakh.
 
 The company again approached the commission on September 5, 2016 and the application was admitted and the order was passed on November 10 after three hearings— one in October and two in November.
 
 The commission has also agreed to allow the company to pay its tax liabilities in 12 instalments as Sahara had requested that they be allowed to pay in instalments as it was “passing through difficult times.” The commission also granted Sahara immunity from penalty and prosecution under the I-T Act in the case but cautioned that the immunity granted may be withdrawn at any time if the commission is satisfied that the company had in the course of the settlement proceedings concealed any particular material to the settlement or had given false evidence.
 
