Summer is in full swing and the social media is flooded with pictures of women slaying it in their best swimsuits. The stylish, but skimpy attire is enough to give you bikini goals, driving you to be fitter, if not the fittest. Celebrities and experts believe that by following a 4-6 week of disciplined lifestyle, there is no reason why you can’t step out in your most sexiest two-piece on the beach...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A fitness-buff, Urvashi swears by a night workout before hitting the beach the next morning. She says, “I like a mix of cardio-butt-and-abs to feel sleek and chiseled. I also play beach paddle ball - it's fun and doesn't feel like you are working out. I also like to do beach runs in the deep sand—it gets you in shape quickly. My favourite exercises are anything that works out your lower body—like squats, lunges, kickboxing and dead-weight lifts. They make your tush rounder and firmer for the bikini season.”
 
 
 “Every night, I have a beverage made of buckwheat, which is a grain-like seed that’s gluten-free and packed with protein. It can help satisfy cravings for sweets and boosts the metabolism. I follow the Japanese principle of 
  which means, ‘Eat until you are 80 percent full.’ I haven’t had alcohol ever in my life really, and avoid refined sugars year-round.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After spending two decades in the industry, actress Achint Kaur continues to be fitter 
 
 
 “Cut down on junk food, but eat everything in small quantities. The smaller meals you have, the higher the metabolism. I love indulging in all kinds of food because pumping iron in the gym and dancing throughout the week keeps me fit for my beach holiday.”
 
 
 
 
 
 The secret to Nia’s well-sculpted body images on social media is her love for running, cycling and swimming. She says, “I am a little lazy working out, but I love indulging in sports activities. Most of my time is spent on the playground, playing outdoor games like basketball, volleyball and swimming on weekends. I feel bored of the same workouts everyday, sports has helped me achieve a fitter body.”
 
 “I follow a strict diet schedule. I don’t eat junk food, have not tasted ice-cream for so many years now and never felt the need for a ‘cheat’ day in my life. I only eat 
 , dal, boiled eggs and 
  for lunch and dinner. I never go to restaurants or felt the need to go to one.   all of this never makes me put on any extra kilos.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Having scorched the ramp many times in two-piec, Jesse feels that fitness is all about having a healthy mind. She says, “If the mind and spirit are in tune, then the body will automatically follow a fitness regime and diet. You will not only feel good, but also feel great in a bikini. I started doing ashtanga yoga and it comes with all the benefits of a regular yoga practice–strength, flexibility, stress management, and inner peace. There is no part of the body that doesn’t work hard in this practice." 
 
  "With ashtanga yoga, my need for junk food faded away and don’t feel the need to binge on late nights too. Cut your portions and you are sorted when it comes to diet.”
 
 
 
 Fitness trainer and bikini fitness model   says that bikini body cannot be achieved overnight. "If you work out regularly for 365 days in a year, and don’t neglect your fitness regime and diet, then you would not have unpleasant bulges coming out. Don’t binge too much on carbs. Cut down on portions. Less grains and more fibre is the ideal way. Add more veggies and nuts to your diet and hydrate yourself well. Having liquids does not mean juices. In summer 
 seeds added to water will give your body fibre and prove to be a cooling agent for your stomach." For workouts, she adds, "A combination of weight training, 
 and working on your core is important for that beach bod. Plank exercises, which work on your abs, arms and back and squats, for your thigh and leg muscles are important.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
