NEW DELHI: With its eyes on the civic elections, Congress on Monday started the process of selecting candidates. A detailed application form has been released and for the first time, booth-level party workers will play a decisive role in the process. 

 Congress sees the municipal polls, likely to be held in April, as an opportunity to regain the lost ground among its traditional vote banks in slums, and unauthorised and resettlement colonies that shifted to AAP in the 2015 assembly polls. Vice-president   is likely to meet all district presidents and the three opposition leaders in the corporations this week to get an idea about the ground situation. 
 
 Delhi Congress president   said the party would field people with a clean track record and focus on choosing young candidates. The final contestant will be picked only after taking feedback from booth-level party workers in each ward, he added.
 
 The party’s slogan will be ‘Toot Gayi Vikas Ki Dore, Wapas Chalo Congress Ki Or’, said Maken. Now that the delimitation order of the municipal wards has been notified, Delhi Election Commission should immediately reserve 50% of the seats for women candidates and then earmark the SC wards so that the polls can be held on time, he added.
 
 Congress has appointed 18 observers for 14 districts and 103 observers for 70 assembly constituencies. Every applicant must submit, along with the bio-data, a list of five   per polling booth with their address and phone number. All applications have to be deposited at the control room to be set up at the DPCC office. Maken said all applications had to be submitted within a week from the commission’s declaration on reserved seats for women and SC candidates. 
 
 To reach out to voters, Delhi Congress will start with a “chargesheet” against the ruling AAP government and the 10 years of the BJP rule in the corporations. It will be released at a convention of block and district presidents at Mavlankar Hall on January 31. From February 4 to 16, conventions in all 14 districts will discuss it in detail. On February 22, a state convention and public meeting will be held at Ramlila Maidan, followed by a ‘sammelan’ of pradhans of unauthorised colonies at Talkatora Stadium on February 26.
 
 
