CHENNAI: The   is all set to allow   (sus scrofa), which  , in at least two districts on a trial basis. A decision in this regard will be taken after a meeting on Tuesday. 

 Depending upon the success of the trial, culling will be extended to other districts as well. Initially, the culling will be implemented in Dharmapuri and   districts, a source said.
 
 Crop damage due to wild boar attacks has increased considerably in the last few years, especially in Dharmapuri, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar and Perambalur districts. In 2012-13 290 cases of crop damage was reported. In the next year it rose to 350. In 2014-15 it further escalated. The chief wildlife warden of the state had then sent a circular to tiger reserve managers and other territorial division forest officers to carry out estimations on wild boar population. The reports stated that in most districts population of wild boars has increased considerably. However, the population estimation of wild boars was not carried out in a scientific manner, conceded the officer.
 
 Already in neighbouring Kerala, wild boar has been declared as vermin and selective culling has been allowed. However, culling was not carried out in the state on a large scale as the order carried a lot of riders. A senior forest official from Kerala said only a single animal that came to feed on a farmland can be killed. When the animals come in a group, they should not be killed. Also, pregnant wild boars are protected. "The riders virtually put a brake on shooting of the wild boars in the state," the officer said.
 
 Conservationists expressed concern over a blanket permission to kill wild boars. With no proper study on the population of the species it is not wise to allow culling, they argued. Also, a study at   in Karnataka showed that wild boars provide for 83% of biomass consumed by leopard and wild dogs, besides forming a significant food source for tigers. Hence, declaring wild boar as vermin and allowing culling of the animal will adversely affect large carnivores, the study said.
 
 
