LUCKNOW: Rates of items decided by the Election Commission for the upcoming General Assembly election campaign are 40-80% less than the market rate. District administration said the rates have been decided after consulting with party workers and local markets, while traders complained they were not involved in the process and are thus suffering huge losses. 

 For example, rate for sedan car hired for   as prescribed by the commission is Rs 1,000 per day but the actual rates fixed by the travel association is Rs 2,200 for 14 hours and conditions apply. 
 
 Similarly, rates of SUV decided by EC is Rs 1,800 for 24 hours whereas the market rates are Rs 3,200 for 14 hours. Likewise, rate of BMW,   and   is Rs 16,500 and Rs 17,500 per day while rates fixed by the association are Rs 24,000 for 14 hours.
 
 On the other hand, rates of wooden poles for tents have been fixed by EC at Rs 3 per pole though actual rate is Rs 66 per running feet. Prescribed rate for plastic chairs is Rs 3 each while it is Rs 10 each in the market while sofa is prescribed Rs 250 per day and actual rates are Rs 350 for 15 hours.
 
 According to All India Travel Association president Shishir Tiwari, the rates decided are wrong as the poll commission is not authorised to declare rates without consulting the association and added that the agencies will not rent out their vehicles in protest. “Some   were seized in the past five days because we denied giving our vehicles at such low rates,” added Shishir.
 
 According to city decorator and designer Hamid Husain, charges which declared by election commission were not according to market rates. “The rates of items decided by the election commission are totally against the interests of the self-employed or businessman,” said Lucknow Vyapar Mandal president Pawan Manocha.
 
 “The rates were decided by district administration on directions of election commission and were declared after verification from local market and meetings with party candidates,” said additional district magistrate (west) Jai Shankar Dubey.
 
 “Election Commission should have spoken to dealers individually,” said Vijay Gupta, a social worker.
 
 “The commission should decide rates of items according to market rates,” said UP election watch convenor Sanjay Singh.
 
 “The rates are unfair and not commensurate with market and will only help candidates in their campaign,” said activist Jyotsna Kaur Habibullah. “Whatever rates have been decided by election commission after demonetisation while giving permission to candidates to spend Rs 27 lakh on their campaign is not fair and against the public,” said social activist Deepak Kabir.
 
 
