MUMBAI: The   (MRVC) will soon carry out a study before commissioning an advanced signalling technology on the suburban corridor. The technology--communication -based train control system-can help improve safety and frequency of train services.

 Though this system was recommended by  , the Centre's advisory body before granting approval for the third phase of the  , it did not feature in the list of projects to be executed.
 
 An MRVC official said that it was because the railway board wanted a comprehensive study of system to be done out before it could be implemented on the suburban corridor.
 
 The control system is an expensive project which will require an investment of around Rs 4,000 crore if implemented on the Western Railway , Central Railway and the Harbour lines.
 
 Mumbai suburban system has fixed block signals which ensure fair distance between trains running on single track. The suburban track is divided into several blocks called signalling ter ritory . As the trains move from one signalling block to the next, the previous block will show the red signal and those before that a yellow, double yellow or green light. This separation of distance prevents trains from running at full potential, restricting the number of services.
 
 In the new system, there is constant communication through digital technology which allows trains to maintain minimum distance between trains, thus allowing better speed and more services.
 
 The MRVC official said that this system has been successfully introduced in Sao Paulo and Copenhegan.“So, implementing the system in Mumbai should not be impossible,“ said the official.
 
 MRVC may go for phasewise execution of the system by first implementing it on the Harbour line corridor. If the cab signalling technology is introduced, the frequency of trains will come down from four minutes per train to two minutes.
 
 “This will improve punctuality and will also lead to less overcrowding on the Harbour line corridor which is witnessing a huge rush due to increase in population in Navi Mumbai,“ said a railway source.
 
