JAIPUR: At a time when lifestyle diseases are taking a toll on people’s health, the percentage of obese population has increased significantly. One out of five males and one out of four females in urban   are overweight or obese, the   (NFHS-4) has revealed. Percentage of overweight or obese population in the state has doubled in the past 10 years among males, NFHS-4 showed.

 Over the past 10 years, awareness about obesity has increased. According to World Health Organisation ( ), overweight and obesity are defined as abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that present a risk to health. A crude population measure of obesity is the body mass index (BMI), a person’s weight (in kilograms) divided by the square of his or her height (in metres). A person with a BMI of 30 or more is generally considered obese. A person with a BMI equal to or more than 25 is considered overweight.
 
 The population of obese or overweight people in the state (urban and rural areas) was 6.2% in 2005-06 but it has increased to 13.2% among males in 2015-16, the NFHS-4 survey has revealed.
 
 Health experts said that overweight or obesity is one of the root causes for hypertension and diabetes and other health complications. It has increased because of sedentary lifestyle and other lifestyle changes.
 
 According to NFHS-4, nutritional status of adults (age 15-49 years) varies in rural and urban areas, the population with body mass index below normal is higher in rural areas as compared to population living in urban areas. But, in urban areas, the percentage of obese population is higher.
 
 The survey shows that in urban areas, 19.7% of male population is obese. But, in rural areas it is just 10.6%. Besides, 23.7% of females in urban areas are obese, whereas in rural areas, 10.7% of women are obese. It shows that lifestyle of women in rural areas makes them less prone to obesity in comparison to their counterparts in urban areas.
 
 WHO says, the fundamental cause of obesity and overweight is an energy imbalance between calories consumed and calories expended. An increased intake of energy-dense foods that are high in fat and an increase in physical inactivity due to the increasingly sedentary nature of many forms of work, changing modes of transportation, and increasing urbanization are common causes of obesity and overweight.
 
 WHO says, common health consequences of overweight and obesity are risk of developing cardiovascular diseases (mainly heart disease and stroke), diabetes, osteoarthritis – a highly disabling degenerative disease of the joints), some cancers (including endometrial, breast, ovarian, prostate, liver, gallbladder, kidney and colon).
 
 
