NEW DELHI: With an eye on civic body polls in April, the Delhi government put aside Rs 7,751 crore in its budget for the municipal corporations, Rs 652 crore more than the amount allocated last year. While announcing this 14.9% increase in the allocation on Wednesday, deputy CM Manish Sisodia urged the corporations to utilise the funds to streamline their systems and ensure better public services.

 The funds earmarked for the municipal corporations for 2017-18 represents 15.8% of the total budget. The financial support includes Rs 3,342 crore as their civic bodies’ share in tax collection, Rs 1,810 crore as share in stamps and registration fee and one-time parking charges and Rs 700 crore as ways and means advance to the North and East  . For implementation of various projects related to urban development, health, transport and education, the Delhi government gave the corporations Rs 1,718 crore.
 
 However, the enhanced allotment did not make the corporation leaders happy. They persisted with their demand that the government implement the recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission if it wanted to improve the financial state of the municipal bodies.
 
 “For two years now, the East and North Corporations have faced a financial crisis and there will be no respite unless the government implemented the finance commission report,” asserted VP Pandey, leader of the House in the North Corporation. “In any case, every year there is a difference between the proposed allocation and funds actually received by the corporation.” 
 
 Subhash Arya, leader of the House in the financially better-off South Corporation, alleged the government was indulging in the politics of numbers rather than thinking about the improvement of the city. “The budget has increased a bit only to show the people that the corporations are not working despite the government providing funds to them. But this is not the case,” said Arya. 
 
 The mayor of the East Corporation, Satya Sharma, claimed that the municipal body could not generate enough revenues on its own due to the geography of the area under it. “The government should put politics aside and implement the finance commission report to make our finances healthy,” said Sharma.
 
