MUMBAI: The cost of an MBBS degree from Dr D Y   in Navi Mumbai, a deemed institute, has topped a crore, the highest in the state. The annual fees have touched Rs 25 lakh this year. Students will have to shell out Rs 2 lakh more as hostel fees, and the college hikes the tuition fee by 3% every year.

 Medical aspirants will have to pay about Rs 1.2 crore over four-and-a-half years for a seat under the general category in the Nerul college. In a government college, the fees would not be more than Rs 3.5 lakh, and a seat in a private college could cost Rs 30-40 lakh.
 
 Fees in most deemed colleges have jumped 25-50% this year (see box) after the government’s decision to centralise admissions, including for the management quota. After NEET, the national medical entrance test, was introduced last year, the government controls the admissions, but the institutes decide the fees.
 
 A new private college in Palghar, Vedantaa Institute of Medical Sciences, is charging Rs 14 lakh (in general quota) for the first year. It’s the highest private institute fee in the state. Ganesh Kesari, the dean, said the fee was passed by the fee regulatory authority. Fees in private colleges went up by a lakh or so this year.
 
 “Not many families can think about sending their children to deemed universities,” said Sudha Shenoy, a parent.
 
 A trustee from one of the deemed universities said they spend around Rs 5 crore annually on the maintenance of the hospital. “The state spends Rs 20-25 lakh on a single medical student every year. How are we supposed to run the institute without charging the same amount?” said the trustee. “We are providing more options to students,” he said.
 
 Students believe the government should subsidise medical education even in the private sector. “They should create more seats in government colleges. For years, there’s been less than 3,000 seats in government colleges in the state, when the aspirants number more than a lakh. Many students take a drop of a year or two to pursue medicine from government colleges, which is also not a viable option anymore as it takes almost six years to get the degree,” said Nishit Chhaya, an aspirant from Navi Mumbai.
 
 Pravin Shingare, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said the state had sought legal opinion on bringing deemed universities under their control. About 10% of medical aspirants take a drop every year to improve their rank in the hope of joining the more affordable government colleges, he added.
 
 Former   member Dr Gautam Sen said one has to look into the root of the evil. “Look at the cost of private medical education in this country. If a student spends Rs 4-5 crore for a degree and doesn’t get patients in his practice, he will have little choice but to succumb to the nexus of cut-practice,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
