he original 70s 'Wonder Woman' is back and she wants James Cameron to immediately stop with his disses.

    couldn't take anymore of the 'Avatar' director's "thuggish jabs" on Wonder Woman.
 
  In a solid response, Carter took to Facebook to express her frustration over the director.
 
  She wrote, "To James Cameron -STOP dissing WW: You poor soul. Perhaps you do not understand the character. I most certainly do."
 
  "Like all women--we are more than the sum of our parts. Your thuggish jabs at a brilliant director, Patty Jenkins, are ill advised. This movie was spot on. Gal Gadot was great. I know, Mr. Cameron--I have embodied this character for more than 40 years. So--STOP IT," she concluded her post.
 
  Carter played Diana Prince in the live action television series of 'Wonder Woman' from 1975 to 1979.
 
  The furious response comes after Cameron sparked controversy in August when he called the film's lead Gal Gadot "an objectified icon."
 
  "She's an objectified icon, and it's just male Hollywood doing the same old thing! I'm not saying I didn't like the movie, but, to me, it's a step backwards," the Oscar-winning director said in an interview.
 
  Cameron explained his comments further this week and said he is still sticking to what he said.
 
  "Yes, I'll stand by that. I mean, [Gal Gadot] was Miss Israel, and she was wearing a kind of bustier costume that was very form-fitting. She's absolutely drop-dead gorgeous. To me, that's not breaking ground," the director responded.
 
  "They had   doing stuff like that in the '60s. It was all in a context of talking about why (Terminator character) Sarah Connor - (played by   created in 1991 - was, if not ahead of its time, at least a breakthrough in its time. I don't think it was really ahead of its time because we're still not (giving women these types of roles)," he added.
 
  'Wonder Woman' has earned more than $820 million at the global box office and boasts an impressive 92 per cent on Rotten Tomatoes. (ANI)
 
 
