SHIMLA: With the assembly elections scheduled this year, the Congress party finds itself in a tight spot. Two senior leaders have levelled corruption charges against each other giving the BJP ammunition to wreck up the forest mafia issue. According to BJP MP   Thakur from Harimpur, the Congress leaders have lent credence to the fact that forest mafia is active in Bilaspur district. Chief minister   however has asked the warring leaders to exercise restraint.

 The feud between former cabinet minister Ram Lal Thakur currently the chairman of State Level Planning, Development and 20 Point Programme Review Committee (with cabinet rank) and Bilaspur (sadar) MLA Bambar Thakur has shocked the party. These leaders have washed dirty linen in public at a time when CM and PCC president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu passed a stricture askiQng leaders not to issue statements that could send wrong signals to the party cadre.
 
 In a recent press conference Ram Lal, also the party general secretary, alleged during the last four years Bambar has caused loss worth Rs 200 crore to the state exchequer in the supply of mining materials for the four lane project. Claiming to have sufficient evidence to prove his allegations, he demanded a CBI probe. Ram Lal had also accused the MLA of having a nexus with the forest mafia from Punjab.
 
 Bambar on his part charged Ram Lal with corruption. He alleged that Ram Lal and some BJP leaders are involved in felling of Khair trees and its smuggling to Punjab. He added the entire four lane work from Kiratpur to Bilaspur was allotted to Ram Lal’s son who is supplying mining materials. He also alleged Ram Lal’s son has not paid tax and has asked for a CBI probe. 
 
 Anurag pointed fingers at the forest mafia and said BJP had raised these issues in the charge sheet submitted to the governor. He also demanded that the chief minister should order a probe. But while talking to media persons in Hamirpur, Virbhadra advised both Ram Lal and Bambar to have patience and stop the infighting. He said that the party adheres to strict principles of discipline. 
 
 Sukhu asked both the leaders not to use the party platform for personal agenda and also warned of disciplinary action
 
