KOZHIKODE: Are the wild elephants located in the forests south of   Gap less problematic when compared to their northern counterparts when it comes to human-animal conflict? 

 An   by the   to look into the possibility of releasing a   captured recently in Wayanad back into the wild says so. The panel is of the view that the less conflicting behaviour in the elephant population in the south could be linked to their genetic distinctiveness.
 
 Taking the genetic differentiation into consideration, the committee has said in its report that "mix of the conflict animal with the less 'conflicting' south population is not admissible". The report says that "the distinct genetic population of wild elephants exists to the South of Palakkad Gap and mixing a conflict animal could result in disastrous consequences ".
 
 "We recommended against releasing the problem elephant from Wayanad to the forest south of Palakkad gap as there is genetic differentiation between the elephant populations on either side of the gap. It had been established in previous studies and also it was found that maternal lineage of the populations are distinct.
 
 So, we cannot take a risk in mixing the conflict animal with the population in the south of the gap which have seemingly less "conflict" animals," wildlife veterinarian with the   and member of the expert committee Dr. Arun Zachariah said.
 
 Palghat Gap is a low mountain pass in the Western Ghats and is the only major discontinuity in the Western Ghats chain of mountains. It is about 40 km wide and fairly steep, the Nilgiri and Anamalai blocks rising to over 2,000 metres above mean sea level on either side of the gap
 
 A study on population differentiation within and among Asian elephant populations in southern India by TNC Vidya and others in 2004 had found that the Nilgiri population of elephants, which included elephants in Kerala forests north of the Palghat Gap, was differentiated from the more southerly populations of Anamalai and   at both mitochondrial and microsatellite markers.
 
 The study also noted that the differentiation across the gap possibly results from prehistoric vicariant (the division of a widespread group of organisms by a geographic barrier, such as a mountain range or a body of water) events relating to the gap itself. Arun Zachariah said that it is possible that the Palghat Gap could have acted as a biogeographic barrier in the past affecting gene flows.
 
 He added that though studies have not specifically established elephant conflict behaviour to a particular gene, conflict behaviour is generally associated to risk taking which is found to have genetic links in many other species. 
 
 
