CHANDIGARH:   had to face a harrowing time after Monday morning’s heavy downpour with traffic coming to a standstill due to waterlogging on the national highway. A long traffic jam was noticed on Singhpura road and near Sindhi Sweets on the Ambala national highway.

 During a visit to Zirakpur long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the traffic light point near Singhpura in absence of a traffic cop. Residents complained that this had turned into an annual problem, which residents face every monsoon in the past decade and still authorities prefer to turn a deaf ear to it.
 
 “I started at 10am to reach my office on time but due to waterlogging at Singhpura light point and absence of a traffic cop it took me more than 45 minutes to drive through the jam,” said Dheeraj, a commuter.
 
 “The traffic lights were installed almost a year back at this point but till date it is not functional. Is there anybody in the traffic department who can give an explanation for this delay due to which every day the residents are harassed in long traffic jams? The worst days are the rainy days and weekends when there is no cop to manage the traffic and commuters get stuck in these jams,” said  , IT professional.
 
 The worst affected were the commuters, who were waiting at the bus stand near a retail outlet due to big potholes on the road near the bus stand, as they had difficulty in boarding buses. On the other side also where the buses coming from Ambala halt, passengers faced problem in boarding the bus due to waterlogging. 
 
 Estate officer, municipal council, S   accepted the fact that there was waterlogging problem at a few points in Zirakpur. He said that the cause of this was low discharge capacity of the drainage pipeline. He said that there was need to install wide stormwater pipeline to resolve the issue.
 
  The stretch between K-area to flyover (opposite Kalgidhar Enclave) on the Zirakpur highway is highly prone to waterlogging during monsoons. Recently, I was stuck in 1-2 feet of water and the engines of many vehicles got seized due to water sucking. The level of road on this highway must be raised to avoid inconvenience to commuters.
 
 V K Kakar,   "Despite many promises made by the MC authorities to resolve the problem of waterlogging near the VIP road in Zirakpur after rain, the condition has not improved. I was stranded near the Singhpura traffic point for more than an hour while going to Chandigarh. We are clueless if there is any plan the local authorities have for this area".
 
 P K Gupta, resident of Zirakpur “It took me almost an hour to cover 300m from Zirakpur-Patiala light point to N K Sharma’s office due to heavy traffic jam. This has become a routine during every monsoon but nothing has been done so far. Eventually, we have learned to live with these problems in Zirakpur".
 
 Sanjay Thapliyal, a Zirakpur residentI was struck in the jam on the Paras Downtown Mall light point for more than an hour. I was going to drop my wife to her workplace but due to the jam we reached late. He said that though they started early very well knowing that there would be a jam but still could’nt reach our destination on time.
 
 G B Yadav, another resident of Zirakpur 
 
 
