It is not often that an actress who has been out of the industry for close to a decade gets to make a comeback with a powerful role. But it seems like   was destined to be in  . The actress, who is now based out of Melbourne, spoke to Bangalore Times about her experience of working in the movie and how it has had an impact on her life. Excerpts…

 
 
 I had acted in films 7-8 years ago, after which I worked for an adventure company. I had certain contacts from my acting days, and one person in particular kept calling me for roles, which I refused. I did a video shoot once for a website, since I couldn’t keep turning down the man anymore, and that is where I met casting director and actor Sandeep Jain, who offered me the role in Shuddhi. Adarsh (H Eshwarappa, the director) sent me the entire script soon after — which is something that is rare — and having read it, I badly wanted to be a part of the movie.
 
 
 
 In the film, I play a journalist, Divya, who acts as a bridge between   and Niveditha’s characters. Jyothi ( ) and Divya protest violence against women and conduct street plays to raise awareness. Most women in the country have experienced some form of sexual assault, and there have been times when I have hit men for trying to act funny with me. So, I did go back to such personal experiences while essaying this character. Also, I was a journalism student, so I could immediately relate to my role; there wasn’t much acting involved.
 
 
 
 The movie has inspired me even more to take a stand and has helped me evolve as an independent woman. I feel that everyone, especially women, has to be vocal about violence and physical abuse. When you keep mum, it gives the attacker an opportunity to do the same thing to another woman. Women must report the crimes, stand up for themselves and not wait for others to speak up for them.
 
  
 
 After wrapping up Shuddhi, I moved to Melbourne, where I work in a private company. I live with my husband there and being in different countries doesn’t work for my personal life. So, for the time being, I haven’t decided if I will do more films or not. If there is an offer that’s too good to refuse, then I might consider it. Let’s see. 
 
