BHOPAL: The 220 metre-long  , to be inaugurated on Friday, would change the landscape of the Upper Lake, as we know it. Connecting Kamla Park to VIP Road Crossing, the bridge is to improve the aesthetic of the Upper Lake area, claimed   Municipal Corporation (BMC). 

 The 15-metre wide cable stay bridge is expected to smoothen the traffic flow in old Bhopal city area by providing safe and easy access to vehicles from new Bhopal city to old city area.
 
 The ride along the old road is expected to be business as usual. Vehicles getting stuck in jams and expect more difficulty in pedestrian movement in the area. Neither the BMC nor the traffic police have been able to clear encroachment in the area along the BRTS corridor.
 
 A single link of the bridge is only adequate connection for one-way traffic. Origanally, the bridge construction was pegged at 29.47 crore, now the cost has gone up to Rs 40 crore.
 
 The substitute road to connect Kamla Park will ease the flow on the way, said Rakesh Soni, a businessman in walled city. “Private properties on the other side and roads connecting nearby colonies too need to be addressed. Every inch is still a bottleneck making traffic jam conditions throughout the day and vehicular movement is blocked in peak hours,” he said.
 
 According to historian Rizwanuddin Ansari, the bridge would mark a major transformation on Upper Lake. The city’s first bridge-cum-check dam-the Pul Pukhta was constructed in 1749 AD and a new suburb Jehangirabad was added in 1840 AD, he said.
 
 “The optics of Upper Lake would get changed after the bridge is inaugurated. However, the amount of lights and increased activity would have an adverse impact on the water. For instance, if people started throwing waste into the lake among other things,” said lake conservation expert Dixit.
 
 The warnings of the impact on ecology are already showing. Few weeks ago, during relocation of the statue of former President Shankar Dayal Sharma, BMC mayor Alok Sharma directed to install lights on nearby trees. Almost, all trees along the lake near Kamla Park and Qudsia Park were lit during the night.
 
 “In summer season, there are thousands of bats that float above the lake and rest on the trees. Since lights have been installed, the number of bats has declined. The BMC needs to be more sensitive and needs to understand the result of some fancy actions,” said Dilawar Khan, a resident of Reth Ghat.
 
 When contacted, the BMC and traffic police officials maintained encroachments in the area should be removed. However, both the agencies passed the responsibility of implementing the action on the other.
 
