NEW DELHI: A controversy has erupted over a tweet by minister of state for home   — in reaction to Congress’s charge that   was turning   into a “Hindu state” — that India’s Hindu population was reducing as they didn’t convert people.

 Rijiju found himself at the centre of storm as it was seen in the context of the ongoing election campaign in UP where BJP and its rivals — SP, Congress and   — have all accused one another of trying to polarise the polls.
 
 Commenting on a newspaper report on a Congress statement, Rijiju tweeted on Monday, “Hindu population is reducing in India because Hindus never convert people... Minorities in India are flourishing unlike some countries abroad.” 
 
  
 
  The comment is seen as an indirect reference to the high growth percentage of Christians as part of Arunachal’s population over the last decade, in sharp contrast to the declining share of Hindus and other indigenous tribes.
 
 Congress spokesman Manish Tewari slammed Rijiju, saying if the PM could use national security as a prop, there was nothing to stop his ministers from going a step further and trying to attempt a religious polarisation.
 
 “It smacks of desperation, it smacks of the fact that they have lost the plot and it smacks of the fact that for all the tall talk about development, ultimately BJP comes back to its basic DNA and that basic DNA is to try and garner electoral benefit out of religious polarisation,” Tewari said.
 
 Reacting to Rijiju’s tweet, Hyderabad MP and AIMIM chief   said Rijiju “should remember he is a minister of India for all Indians, not for Hindus only”. “Remember your oath as minister,” he added.
 
 As per the Census 2011, Christians in Arunachal Pradesh grew from 18.7% of the total population in 2001 to become the most dominant religious group at 30.26%. Hindus declined from 34.6% of the population to 29.04%, and are no longer the largest religious group in the state.
 
 Those following other faiths, mostly indigenous, were also lower at 26.2% in 2011 compared to 30.7% 10 years ago.
 
 The newspaper report, as reproduced on Rijiju’s Twitter account, said the   had alleged that the Modi-led BJP government was trying to convert the country into a “Hindu state”.
 
 Kiren Rijuju later commented, “Why is Congress making such irresponsible statements... All religious groups enjoy freedom and are living peacefully.”
 
 
 
