KOLKATA: It has been an unusually stormy   in Kolkata this time, the wettest in a decade. With as many as two squalls and three thundershowers striking the city till Sunday, the summer singe has been kept at bay. The average maximum temperature has been a pleasant 30-32 degrees, two notches below the normal mark. Even weathermen have been left surprised by the frequency of thundershowers, that hasn’t crossed two in the last five years. Kolkata’s rain count of 137.4 mm so far this month is way above the normal average of 35 mm.

 Conditions precipitating squalls and thundershowers have been developing regularly this month, they pointed out. First, moisture-laden winds have been flowing in unobstructed from high-pressure zones above  . They have been aided by low-pressure troughs along the eastern fringes of Gangetic Bengal. While the troughs have persisted long enough, the moisture-incursion, too, has been steady. The twin trigger has ensured a stormy, cool climate rarely experienced in March in recent years.
 
 “Over the last ten years, March has been relatively dry. Thundershowers have been infrequent and squalls have been even rarer. So, showers, too have been few and far in between. There has been nothing to keep the spiralling mercury in check. While pre-monsoon showers, like the ones we are having this time are common in March, they had turned infrequent. It has been pleasantly different this time,” said G K Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre ( ).
 
 Kolkata normally has four wet days in March but it has been fewer in recent years. This time, the city has already had five rainy days. But it was not a squall every time. A storm must be accompanied by wind blowing at a speed of at least 45 km/hr to qualify as a squall. Sunday evening’s storm, for instance, was a thundershower. “We had squalls on March 10 and 11. The rest have been thundershowers but they have come in a series which is now rare in March. It has pushed the mercury down,” added Das.
 
 Since 2013, Kolkata has never had more than a single squall in March. In 2015, the city had none. “The more thundershowers and squalls you have, the lower will be the maximum temperature. This helps push the onset of summer back. But this has not been happening in Kolkata over the last ten years,” said a weather scientist.
 
 Weather analyst and former director of   Pranabesh Sanyal ascribed this change to global warming. “Sea-surface temperature has been rising which is leading to the formation of low-pressure troughs earlier than usual. These squalls are actually nor’westers striking a month in advance. It indicates that the weather pattern has turned erratic in this part of the country,” said Sanyal.
 
 It will, however, remain dry this week, predicted the RMC. With no system in sight, the mercury will climb slowly and the maximum temperature could touch 34 degrees by Thursday, it was predicted.
 
 
