KOLKATA: New Delhi may be reeling under severe  , but Kolkata has not only touched the country’s capital city but have also surpassed the city quite a few days in terms of air pollution.

 A joint study by the British Deputy High Commission, UKAID and   that was released last year had found that the city was already the fifth highest among major cities in the country emitting 14.8 million tons of   (GHG) and also the second highest contributor in terms of per capita CO2 emission, producing 3.29 tonnes of CO2 per capita. 
 
 The major sources of air pollution include automobile exhausts which is about 50%, industrial emissions that is almost 48% and the rest 2% from cooking. The findings have been mentioned in details in the book ‘Roadmap For Low Carbon And Climate Resilient Kolkata’. It was during the visit of the former UK Prime Minister David Cameron in the city on November 14, 2013 that the UK government had signed a MOU with KMC on low carbon and climate resilient Kolkata.
 
 The study also finds that around 70% of the city’s 15 million inhabitants suffer from some form of respiratory problems caused by air pollution. The study specially mentioned that vector borne diseases like malaria and dengue as well as respiratory diseases will rise in the city due to the increasing pollution level. This proved to be true this year, with more than 50 persons have died from dengue and several thousand others affected.
 
 The study had come up with proposals as to how to combat and control the increasing air pollution in the city. It had suggested that KMC authorities should work together with the relevant state government departments to establish and enforce auto fuel quality guidelines and emission standards to lower pollution. According to former chief environment law officer Biswajit Mukherjee, a plan should be chalked out to control air pollution. “There was a plan discussed way back in 2011 to do something to prevent air pollution caused by firecrackers but it did not materialise. The issue should be looked into seriously now,” he said.
 
 State government officials said that the government has taken up a Green Cities mission stressing on developing low carbon urban township areas with special focus on environment. The plan is to stress on using pollution free solar power, battery and electric run vehicles and LED lights to have a low carbon output. State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim recently held a meeting with all municipal bodies of the state by the end of this month to discuss on coming up with measures to control air pollution.
 
