HYDERABAD: Barely two months are left for the centenary celebrations to start, but Osmania University (OU) is short of funds as neither the state government nor the central government has released a single paisa for various activities and developmental works. 

 The organising team submitted the proposal to the state seeking funds six months in advance. “We had submitted a proposal seeking Rs 400 crore. While the chief minister  , has committed to release funds for the fete scheduled to be held from April 26-28, we are concerned if we will be getting enough funds for the developmental work to be undertaken as part of the centenary celebrations,” said  , special officer of centenary celebrations. 
 
 With no word from the governments, the university has only taken up basic infrastructural work. 
 
 A few days ago, a delegation from the Telangana government met officials in the Central government including Prakash Javadekar, ministry of human resource development. Member of Parliament from  , Jithender Reddy urged the union minister to grant funds for the OU celebrations. “We submitted a letter to the Central government seeking Rs 300 crore. However, they said that they will look into the same,” Reddy told TOI. Although the university has grandiose plans, sources in the state confirmed that they may not get enough funds for the celebrations. “The university may hardly get 50 percent of the proposed amount for the celebrations. Even the Central government may not grant the proposed amount,” said a source. According to officials, an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore will be spent on the centenary celebrations slated in the month of April. 
 
 With ambiguity over the funding for the centenary celebrations, the university is now pinning hopes on the grants that will be released by the University Grants Commission under the scheme of granting special heritage status to universities and colleges. Under this scheme, institutions completing 100 years of existence will be granted with a lump sum grant of Rs 10 crore.
 
