Panaji: Fisheries and water resources minister Vinod Palyekar has suggested that the coastal villages of Anjuna, Vagator and Chapora be classified at   II areas so that houses and hotels be protected along the coast.

 Chennai-based National centre for sustainable coastal management (NCSCM) representatives made constituency-wise presentations of the draft coastal zone management plan to MLAs and ministers from North Goa on Thursday.
 
 Calangute MLA Michael Lobo was not satisfied with the draft coastal zone management plan and said it was prepared largely on the basis of Google maps.
 
 The North Goa planning and development authority, he said, has prepared a draft ODP and land use map over a period of four years, mapping each structure including homes, temples, churches, fishing areas, parking for fishing boats, bandhs etc in every ward in the coastal villages of Candolim, Calangute and Baga that fall in the no-development zone (NDZ).
 
 “The outline development plan (ODP) and land use map present the ground reality of the villages right from Fort Aguada up till Baga creek. We’re not demanding anything. We’re only submitting these to the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) which will then be handed over to the NCSCM and the ministry of environment, forests and climate change. We want them to decide on the CRZ classification based on the data we have collected,” he told TOI. 
 
 He added, “Ours is an urban area despite being under a panchayat.” The area is proposed to be classified as CRZ II in the draft.
 
 Minister for rural development from Saligao, Jayesh Salgaonkar said data from the water resources department must be included in the draft plan. 
 
 A number of ‘bandhs’ have been broken over the years and the increase in salinity has resulted in the growth of mangroves. As a result of the mangroves, locals fear a larger area will be brought under the no-development zone, he said.
 
 On hearing the apprehensions of the MLAs and ministers, chief minister Manohar Parrikar directed the water resources department (WRD) to submit data on ‘bandhs’ to the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA).
 
 Presentations were made on CRZ areas in Mandrem, Pernem, Siolim, Calangute, Aldona, Porvorim, Panaji, Aldona and St Cruz where the MLAs and ministers present were shown maps of which areas would fall within the NDZ.
 
 The exercise is expected to continue on Friday and Saturday where MLAs and ministers from South Goa will view presentations on coastal areas within their constituencies and present their suggestions. Written submissions will be presented subsequently.
 
 
