New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday reiterated his demand for use of ballot papers in the municipal polls and said if the time required to make the shift from EVM to paper was short, then the polls may be “postponed”. Kejriwal’s statement comes just three weeks before the polls and his demand came with repeated assertions questioning the reliability of EVMs.

 Reacting to the Election Commission’s remark, asking AAP to “introspect” on the reasons behind its performance in Punjab, Kejriwal hit back, taking a dig at ECI saying he was “considering including the EC in his party’s decision-making body, the political affairs committee (PAC)”. “I have written a letter to ECI and offered that we have the experts who can prove that the voting machines can be tampered with. I challenge the ECI to give us the machines and 72 hours to prove it,” Kejriwal said.
 
 He had made the demand for use of ballot paper after the Punjab assembly poll results were announced. Kejriwal’s demand was rejected by LG Anil Baijal who cited “time constraints” to effect any change in the mode of polling.
 
 Unfazed by the announcement, Kerjiwal kept reiterating his demand. At a press conference on Monday, he alleged that there was “widespread tampering” of EVMs and claimed VVPAT machines from Uttar Pradesh were being brought to conduct the Rajouri Garden bypoll. “MCD polls should be held using paper ballots. It should be postponed if time is required to do that,” he said in response to a question from journalists.
 
 He also questioned the ECI for sending EVMs used in Uttar Pradesh’s Govind Nagar to Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind for conducting bypolls there. At Bhind, VVPAT-enabled EVMs were found printing the BJP’s poll symbol irrespective of the button pressed during a mock trial, which the opposition parties had latched on to. 
 
 Kejriwal questioned as to how the machines from UP had been taken to MP. “This goes against the norm that EVMs used in one election cannot be used in another for at least 45 days,” the CM said.
 
 The AAP chief said in the light of reports that even VVPAT machines were not reliable, ballot papers were the “only safe option”, which, he said, has been adopted by many western countries.
 
 “The microchips inside the EVMs can be fiddled with. Sophisticated software is being used to do that. But not all machines are tampered with, the critical ones are,” Kejriwal alleged.
 
 Kejriwal had met the chief election commissioner (CEC) on Saturday to demand an investigation into the reason behind the faulty EVMs, which allegedly recorded only BJP votes, irrespective of which button was being pressed.
 
