PUDUCHERRY: A convoy of vehicles escorting the lt governor’s car with a red beacon has become a thing of the past in  .   and her team, of late, prefer to   to inspect the amenities and facilities, and to interact with people.

  “Bicycling gives greater visibility of the shortcomings in the facilities and amenities in the regions and enables better interaction with people, says Bedi. “I can greet people when I pedal. The common man becomes a part of the governance as interaction improves. He feels he is related and he can reach out. Inspecting in bicycles spreads the message of accessibility and accountability. The exercise aims to simplify interaction and integrate official machinery with the masses. It improves proximity and communication,” Bedi said.
 
 She and her team visited Kamatchi Amman temple and the temple land and pond during her 79th weekend morning round on Sunday. Bedi has been undertaking weekend morning rounds ever since she assumed charge as the lt governor of the Union territory of Puducherry. After promoting Swachh Bharat initiative to make the territory clean and green she shifted her focus on recovering temple lands and reviving temple ponds.
 
 “The inspection is aimed at reviving temple ponds and replenishing groundwater sources that are depleting. Once desilted, tanks and ponds will become good storehouses of rainwater and serve as reservoirs of groundwater to meet agricultural and drinking water needs,” Bedi said.
 
 She was of the strong opinion that senior officials in the municipalities must visit the regions under their jurisdiction on bicycles to take stock of the ground realities. 
 
 “What if all municipal commissioners bike on early hours of weekends or choose the days they wish and drive past heaps of garbage. Will they remain or vanish? They will vanish. Instead of going for a morning walk to a gym or a public park or a beach at least once a week bike around the town and see the change. It will make grass root staff work and deliver better. People too will cooperate. Once appreciated, a positive change will come about. It will bring in shared responsibility. This happens only when people in top positions are committed by act not word,” she said.
 
 Regretting to note that a vast stretch of farmland of the temple had been reduced to a sewerage sump covered by weeds and bushes, Bedi worked out an action plan on the spot to clean and restore the land to its original state within six weeks’ time. 
 
 She directed the public works department to carry out house-to-house survey to identify people letting sewage into the land and issue them notices and instruct them to immediate connect to underground sewage system.
 
