 There are so many roles I need to play in a day – running a company, travelling and speaking, and being a mom. You also need to spend quality time with colleagues, friends and family, on a fairly regular basis. I actively work to separate these roles and personas. For instance, my son (who is 6) and I go for a mom-and-son holiday every year, away from the hustle, and I make sure there are no laptops, social media or emails in sight. On a typical day, 7-9am and 5-8pm is for the family, 9am-5pm just for work, and the rest for catching up on social life, physical or online. I travel a lot, so typical days are getting fewer and farther in between!

 
 I love travelling around the world on my own. I went to Argentina last year and spent eight hours trekking on my own around the Iguazu Falls. It was an exhilarating experience to come out of the jungle to see the mighty waterfall. I am off to Brazil next month and hope to visit the Amazons. I also get my adrenaline rush satisfied with extreme rollercoaster rides.
 
 
  I am kind to everyone. I strongly believe there is no need to be ruthless or aggressive in business, and that you can be humble, helpful and empathetic, and still be successful. At the end of the day, everyone in business is a human being, and they want to be supported and helped to achieve their goals. When I demonstrate I can help them achieve their goals, they are usually very happy to work with me and my firm. 
 
 
 Give far more importance to your own well-being and to your family than work or business. Relationships last far longer than any job. Looking after your health or family does not mean cutting down on your work or achieving less.
 
 
 My karma. I try my best to do good things and take on new projects all the time. I start my day with Suryanamaskar and take time to meditate.
 
 
 I’m active, mindful, and ensure eight hours of sleep for myself. 
 
 
  Success and failure are in your mind. What is success to you could be seen as failure by others. It’s very important for us to define our own successes.
 
  
  Treat them like a game. You finish a challenge, get the reward and move on to the next challenge.
 
 
 Love yourself.
 
 
 Working with people I don’t enjoy being with – life is short, and I believe we should spend it with the people and jobs we like.
 
 
