NAGPUR: Even after 24 hours, fire continued to rage in the Bhandewadi dump yard on Wednesday, emitting toxic fumes in surrounding areas. Though it was brought under control, the thick smoke billowing from the 55-acre dump yard could be spotted from residential areas within five-kilometer radius. After 2002, this is the biggest fire at Bhandewadi. 

 The cause of the major fire, which broke on Tuesday at around 9.45am, is yet to be ascertained. While some experts who conducted spot inspection on Wednesday called it a ‘natural outbreak due to rise in temperature’, others blamed it on a carelessly-tossed cigarette or ‘bidi’ butt. “The fire erupted from the rear side of the dumpyard where the compound wall was broken by nearby slum dwellers,” said   officials.
 
  The outbreak took place at the windrows that were created as an initial step for bio-mining process that   is attempting for the first time. TOI visited the site on Wednesday afternoon and saw that fire was flaring-up at various spots near the landfill site. As far as the naked eye could see, thick black smoke was emanating from the dumping yard, where the total volume of piled-up solid municipal waste is about 18 lakh metric tonnes. Daily, 1,100 tonnes of city’s garbage is dumped at the site. The hills of trash, that have spread outside the original landfill site are over 20 feet high. 
 
 After trying to douse fire for over 12 hours till Tuesday midnight, firefighters again resumed the operations on Wednesday morning. On Tuesday, four fire tenders from the NMC’s fire and emergency services department completed over 40 trips to bring the flames under control. On the second day too, three fire tenders were deployed at the dump yard. Overall, around 1.8 lakh litres of water was used to control the fire. According to officials, it might take another four-five days to extinguish the fire completely. 
 
 While initially the firefighters had to struggle to navigate the source of fire, they also had a tough time extinguishing it due to the height of garbage piles. “The fire is not on the surface and spraying water directly on the garbage will not extinguish it as water will flow away. We are first using excavators to dig out the solid waste. The pits filled with solid waste are at least 50-60 feet deep,” said a firefighter.
 
 Officials from fire department lamented over shortage of manpower. Members of  , who were on the spot till Tuesday late night, said that at least ten tenders are needed to completely control the fire. “Water tankers are making trips at the site. But the fire has been spread out in a vast area and it has to be blocked from all sides. At least ten tankers should spray water simultaneously from ten different angles,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil.
 
 Officials informed that a similar massive fire had broke out in the dump yard in 2002. Last year too, TOI had reported incidents of fire-outbreaks at Bhandewadi. The worst sufferers are the residents living in the periphery of the dump yard, who are being exposed to high air pollution. “On Tuesday afternoon, it went suddenly dark and we thought the weather is getting cloudy. Later on we started feeling suffocated and realized that it is smoke,” residents said. A nine-year-old boy living in nearby slums also got an asthama attack late in the night. “He is unable to breathe. Our houses are filled with black some,” his mother said.
 
