The   derives its name from Shivaji Maharaj and the BJP’s move to turn Raigad into an expensive political project will hurt the Sainiks no end.

 After nearly snatching away India’s richest   from its estranged partner Shiv Sena’s grasp, the   is now going to make a grab for its soul.
 
 While its municipal election advertising campaign was led by images of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj to woo Marathi voters, the BJP in a bold move to appropriate a part of the Maratha king’s legacy has declared a Rs 563-crore project to preserve  .
 
 The   derives its name and militant politics -- much diluted now under Uddhav Thackeray’s moderate leadership -- from Shivaji Maharaj and the BJP’s move to turn Raigad into an expensive political project will hurt the Sainiks no end.
 
 It will hurt Uddhav a little bit extra because at the ground-breaking ceremony of the proposed Shivaji Memorial off Nariman Point in December last year, it was he who had suggested that the government must also make efforts to conserve Shivaji’s forts across the state. Uddhav also takes significant pride in his aerial photographs of the warrior king’s forts.
 
 For decades, Shiv Sena has nearly monopolised Shivaji in the state, turning him into the party’s emblem. In the last assembly and Lok Sabha elections, however, the BJP too began invoking his name frequently. Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened his speeches in Maharashtra with salutations to Shivaji.
 
 Aiming a barb at the Shiv Sena, BJP spokesman Ram Kadam on Tuesday said there are parties that have considered Shivaji their ‘personal wealth’. “Shivaji’s principles run in our blood stream. Others did politics in his name, we want his principles to reach the world,” he said.
 
 Shiv Sena minister Ramdas Kadam, however, dismissed the restoration of Raigad fort as another of the BJP’s grand promises. “Till now many promises have been made like Coastal Road and Ambedkar Memorial. I will congratulate the chief minister only when the work starts,” he said.
 
 The Raigad project, whose details were finalised by a committee headed by outgoing chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya, received Union Minister of State for Culture Mahesh Sharma’s approval on Tuesday after Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis met him in Delhi.
 
 Among the highlights of the conservation and development of the fort, where Shivaji was coronated in 1674, will be a sound-and-light show on his life. A road leading to the fort from Mahad will be widened at a cost of Rs 200 crore.
 
 District Planning Officer of Raigad district Sunil Jadhav said conservation efforts will cover the samadhi of Shivaji, the Raj Darbar, Jagdishwar temple, Rajwada, Jijauwada (which belonged to Shivaji’s mother) and her samadhi. This component alone will cost Rs 117 crore.
 
 The pathways inside the fort and its gigantic gates -- including Chitta Darwaza and Nala darwaza -- will be restored.
 
 A market near the fort, the Darukothar (ammunition house), a watchtower at Jagdishwar, Ranivasa (the queens’ residential quarters), a dharmashala and the Ashtra Pradhan Mandal, where the king’s council of ministers camped, will also undergo extensive repairs.
 
 A ropeway inside the fort will be rehauled and a small path around the fort will also be relaid.
 
 The Raigad zilla parishad will make provisions to provide 24x7 water supply to the fort and the state electricity board will lay underground cables to illuminate it. Thanking the Union Ministry of Culture for clearing the project, Fadnavis said his government will work for restoration of all of Shivaji’s forts across the state.
 
