HYDERABAD: The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development’s (HRD) move to introduce a detention policy for students enrolled in Classes 5 to 8, has not gone down well with educationalists and parents who fear that the move will do more harm than good to children.

 Also, while child right activists feel that introduction of the policy will reduce the nation’s literacy rate — as number of students dropping out of school at a young age will increase — educationalists say that policy must not be implemented unless all schools have the required facilities and staff in place.
 
 “It is true that some kind of an evaluation system is needed, but implementing a detention policy without putting any facilities in place, is not going to help in any way. In fact, detention might have a serious psychological impact on students. Schools should, therefore, make sure that they have proper teachers and remedial classes in place before detaining a student,” said Kodandaram M, an educationalist.
 
 The parents’ concerns are not very different. While insisting the policy should not be implemented at least till Class 8, they say how judging a 10-year-old on the basis of marks is too harsh. “There have been various reports stating that no detention policy is not doing any good, so some kind of change is definitely needed. However, I don’t think it is necessary to implement the policy for students between Classes 5 and 8. May be they can have one filter exam in Class 7 or 8 to evaluate students,” said Ashish Naredi of  .
 
 Terming it ‘anti-children’, child rights activists called for a complete scrapping of the idea. “The Central government should withdraw its proposal. This move will force children to drop-out at a very young age and ultimately get into child labour. Also, children might slip into depression which, in turn, might give private educational institutions an opportunity to squeeze more money from parents to award more marks to their wards and promote them to the next class,” said  , a child rights activist.
 
 On July 21, HRD Minister   said that the government will soon introduce a bill in   to do away with the 'no-detention' policy for Classes 5 to 8. He said these students, who do not pass the examination in March, will be given a chance in May. But if they fail in May too they will be detained. The provisions of the bill, he added, was aimed at bringing in about a change in the current policy.
 
