KOCHI: Paving way for starting super-specialty wings at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to create 108 posts, including 10 posts of professors, in the medical college.

 Besides addressing the issue of faculty shortage, which is posing the threat of losing   (MCI) recognition for many PG streams, the creation of new posts will help start super-specialty wings in key streams such as cardiology, neurology and nephrology.
 
 Professors will be appointed in cardiology, neurology, nephrology, orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynecology, radio diagnosis, dentistry, ENT and psychiatry departments. 
 
 “We have been suffering from acute shortage of faculty and staff. The creation of posts will ensure transition of the medical college to a full-fledged one,” said Dr V K  , principal of the medical college. 
 
 “We had requested the state government to create around 500 posts. The director of medical education had agreed to create posts in a phased manner,” Sreekala said.
 
 Many of the departments and facilities are functioning sans adequate specialists. There had been much hue and cry for creating the post of cardiologist. In the absence of a full-time cardiologist, a doctor appointed on contract basis offers his service for two or three days. As post of professor, associate professor and assistant professor in cardiology will be filled, it will be a push for starting cathlab. Earlier, the state government had allocated cathlab for the medical college. Adequate doctors in the cardiology will help start functioning of the cathlab soon.
 
 The dialysis unit at the medical college which is to run under the leadership of nephrologist is functioning under the guidance of professor of medicine. Now, that the government has created the post of nephrologist, the functioning of the dialysis unit can be done under proper guidance of a specialist. The creation of posts of faculties in neurology would ensure that tests such as electroencephalography (EEG), a test to assess the functioning of brain.
 
 In the absence of specialties, postgraduate medical students have to go to the neighbouring medical colleges to get specialty training. “Now PG students can be given training in our medical college itself. This will be beneficial for the medical college and patients as well. The PG students can be used for manning many services in the medical college,” an official with the medical college said.
 
 Absence of a nursing officer and head nurses had been one of the handicaps as far as patient care is concerned. The government would create the post of a nursing officer who would be coordinating all the nursing and cleaning staff. With the creation of 13 head nurse posts, there would be a head nurse in each ward.
 
