PANAJI: India U-17 coach   is under no illusion that the team will start matching the best teams in business at the World Cup with just two years of preparations. It's not easy at the World Cup, he warns, but promises to give it all even if India's chances in each of the three group matches are just five percent. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with the Portuguese coach...

 
 
 
 We believe we are prepared. We have worked hard during the last few months, made progress and played some very good games. We have expectations from this tournament but we are playing at a World Cup, an experience which is completely new to the players. It's high competition. We are also conscious that we haven't played enough matches with national teams. We've played Italy, Serbia, Macedonia,  , Colombia and  . The United States, on the other hand, played six international matches during the last 45 days. A lot of people feel this team has been training together for two years and we should be ready to compete against the US, Ghana and Colombia. It's impossible. The reality is that the difference is enormous. But we will fight.
 
 
 
 
 If you are realistic, you will know that our chances are less. But we want to believe that nothing is impossible. We will show professionalism and try to match the top teams. We will see them eye-to-eye. We won't feel inferior.
 
 
 
 
 The result and performance against Chile was unbelievable but it was still a friendly . You cannot compare that friendly to what we will experience at the World Cup. The pressure will be enormous. To give you an example of what to expect; Mexico won 6-1 against Costa Rica (in the qualifiers) and both teams are now at the World Cup. That's the level. And let's not even discuss teams like Spain, Germany and Brazil.
 
 
 
 
 My friends said I was crazy to come to India and take up this assignment. They said it was a big mistake in my career. But I love challenges. I love taking risks. I have nothing to lose, and the team too. We must enjoy our moments. If we can prove that this Indian team, with good organisation, can reduce the gap between us and the rest, and we can match them in some years, that will be some sort of victory . Neither me, nor the players, are under any illusion that it will be easy. We are all determined to show that the team is organised; that the team can improve in the future. Of course, we don't want to lose big, but if we fight for a result and still lose, I think it will be good.
 
 
 
 
 I've always maintained that if our opponents at the World Cup have a 95 percent chance (of winning), we will fight for the remaining five percent.
 
 
 
 
 They are different concepts and need time to adapt. For 18 months (under previous coach Nicolai Adam), the players developed the game. In seven months, we had to change that competitive DNA that requires dedication and complexity . Even though we spent endless hours perfecting, it is unsatisfactory.
 
 
