KOTA: A 15-year-old girl of  , who was forced to marry a person double her age two years ago, was rescued on Thursday by the members of the   (CWC) from her   of Kota district.

 In a written complaint to the state commission for women and child welfare, the   girl has accused her parents and family members of her husband of harassment, physical abuse and forcibly getting her married at an early age.
 
 The minor, who had gone to the Kethoon police station to file a complaint, was allegedly also thrashed and beaten up by female constables.
 
 The victim alleged that she was forcibly married to a man of about 30 years, a resident of Sathur village of Bundi district about two years ago, after the death of her mother. Her father is a drug addict and mentally unsound, she added. She was continuously beaten and harassed at the in-laws’ home in Sathur village and, eventually, she returned to her home a few days ago, she said.
 
 “The husband of the minor victim, identified as Ravi Jaga of Sathur village, came to Kethoon town to take her back with him, but she opposed it,” said Harish Gurubaxani, chairman, CWC, Kota.
 
 But when the husband and her family members forced her to go back to the in-laws, the victim and her younger sister approached the Kethoon police station.
 
 Instead of listening to her plight, police officials thrashed and beat her up, Gurubaxani said.
 
 “According to her complaint, one female constable Koushalya beat her up at the police station. The younger sister has gone missing since then. She may have fled after seeing her sister abused by the police,” he said.
 
 On Thursday morning, a public representative from Kethoon town sent a copy of the victim’s complaint to CWC members, who reached her home along with police personnel from the anti-human trafficking wing and rescued her.
 
 “The condition at the minor victim’s home and statements by people there justified her allegations,” he added.
 
 The minor has been sent to the children’s home. A case will be lodged against those responsible for her condition after further investigation into the matter, the chairman said.
 
 “Though the victim’s Class VI mark sheet indicates her date of birth as 2002, her birth certificate, which is likely to be fake, shows that she was born in 1996,” the chairman said.
 
 When contacted, the SHO at Kethoon police station, Pushpendra Singh Hada, refuted all the allegations made by the victim.
 
 
