MUMBAI: Remember Navjot Singh Sidhu, the man who would destroy the confidence of visiting spinners even before they could settle down on Indian soil? From England's   to Australia's spin legend  , they all suffered severe damage at the hands of the Punjab opener in the late '80s and '90s.

 Shreyas Iyer brought back memories of Sidhu's pre-series onslaughts while batting for India A in the warm-up tie against Australia on Saturday afternoon. He signalled his intentions from the very first ball he faced, from Nathan Lyon, which he slog swept for a huge six. The 22-year-old tonked the Aussie spinners throughout his stay (85 batting; 93b, 7x4, 5x6) on Day Two as India `A' finished at 176 for four in reply to Australia's 469 for seven declared.
 
 Targeting the arc between wide long-on and deep mid wicket, the tall Mumbaikar smashed all five of his sixes off spinners, using his reach and quicksilver footwork to nullify them.
 
 In all, he took 77 runs off the 87 balls he faced from the duo, with Lyon, a vastly experienced off-spinner at the international level (63 Tests), going for 36 (47 balls, 3x6, 1x4) runs and left-arm spinner O'Keefe for 41 (40 balls, 4x4, 2x6).
 
 If the idea was to put seeds of self-doubt in the minds of the Aussie spinners before the four-Test series kicks off in Pune on Feb 23, Iyer seems to have succeeded.
 
 The youngster looks set to hit his second straight hundred against a touring international team ­ he had scored 100 against Bangladesh earlier this month -but may still have to wait for a berth in a packed India Test middle-order, in which even   can't find a place after slamming a triple century.
 
 Even as opener Priyank Panchal (36), Ankit Bawne (25) and skipper Hardik Pandya (19) failed to carry on after getting starts, Iyer managed to keep going at one end, effortlessly carting the spinners around. The batsman himself would admit, though, that with Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood skipping this game and Jackson Bird not bowling to him at all, a true test of pace eluded him here.
 
 Llyon and O'Keefe now have a fair idea of what awaits them in the Test series, and would do well to have a chat with Warne, who's set to arrive in India soon to commentate in the first Test.
 
 Taking advantage of the red soil on the CCI pitch, Lyon still did manage to trouble the batsmen with the odd ball turning and bouncing, and Panchal succumbed to one such delivery, as he was caught at forward short leg. The 29-year-old had earlier forced Akhil Herwadkar, who scratched around for 29 balls for his four runs, to spoon back a catch at him.
 
 Earlier, resuming on 327 for five, Australia continued to make merry against a listless India A attack, which badly missed offspinner Krishnappa Gowtham, who couldn't bowl a single over after pulling up his hamstring on Day One. Allrounder Mitchell Marsh (75, 159b, 1x4, 1x6) and wicket-keeper Mathew Wade (64, 89b, nine fours) helped themselves to a 129-run partnership for the sixth wicket, making the best of the mediocre fare served to them.
 
 Both had no problem cutting and pulling the India A medium-pacers with ease. Driving the ball beautifully through the cover and wide mid-off area, Marsh at one stage crashed four boundaries in the space of 10 balls. His performance at No. 6 is a clear indication that Marsh has now won the battle for that spot with 'big show'  , who batted at No 8.
 
 For India A, left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem put up a poor show (1-126 in 33 overs) to dent his chances of national selection.
 
