Theatre and film actor  , 27, recently ended her 11-year-long association with the  , sparking whispers in the theatre community about all not being well between the protégée and her mentor. On being asked if the rumours are true, she confirms that one of the reasons she quit is because the group's founder and eminent theatre personality,  , made "advances" towards her. While Gaur, 54, known for his socially and politically relevant plays, has denied these claims, other members of Asmita, who left the group with her, say the accusations are true. On the other hand, those who are still a part of the group, say that she left to start her own group. Shilpi was the most recognisable face of Asmita for several years and is also known for her role in 'Raanjhanaa'.

  Shilpi tells us, "I wanted to start my own thing. I thought this was the right time to leave and there were many personal reasons." On being asked what these personal reasons were, she tells us about Gaur's alleged "advances". "It was not an assault, I did not let it reach that level. He made advances, and the moment it happened, I said no and left. It started in February 2016 in Varanasi, when we were rehearsing for a play late at night. We were discussing a script when he tried to hold my hand and made advances towards me. I left immediately and thought he would not repeat this. But it happened again after five-six months. He would say, 'Yeh toh normal cheez hai, ismein galat kya hai?' After it happened for the first time, I did not go to Asmita for many days," she says.
 
  
  Shilpi Marwah
 
  She adds, "Mere liye yeh accept karna bahut difficult tha. Activism ka koi matlab nahi banta, jab aap ye sab kar rahe ho. Main uss aadmi ko 11 saal se rakhi bandhti hoon, unka dimag kab aisa ho gaya, mujhe samajh nahin aaya. When he kept pursuing me even after my refusal, I decided to leave. It took me a year to leave Asmita because I had my work commitments. I have started my own theatre group. When I left Asmita, I told everyone publicly that this was the reason why I left." Apparently, when Shilpi made the announcement and left, 10 other members of the group also left with her. 
 
  Gaur denies the accusations outright and says, "I do not know what to say, I have nothing to say. I am shocked, she was like my laadli, my favourite student and actress. I cannot even think of something like this. Koi kuch bhi kahega aur aap maan lenge? Mujhe nahin kehna kuch iss baare mein."
 
  
  Arvind Gaur
 
  Hitesh Aggarwal, who was a part of Asmita for four years, was among those who left the group with Shilpi. He says, "When this happened for the first time in Varanasi, Shilpi told me indirectly ki kisi ne usse chedhne ki koshish ki hai.' After 15- 20 days she told me what had really happened. I asked her to file a complaint and leave Asmita. Woh unhe apne baap ki tarah manti thi, toh unke liye yeh believe karna bhi difficult tha. The plays that we have done so far, they have very bold topics, so when he would initiate a conversation like that, she would not even think that it was wrong. She would always think, 'Script ke liye hoga'. When she finally decided to leave, we had a meeting with him in which he accepted that he had done this. He said, 'Mujhse galti ho gayi, maaf kar do'."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Kushagra Singh, who also left with Shilpi adds, "It was quite shocking for us that an incident like this happened at a place where we do plays on women's rights. When the last confrontation happened with Arvind Gaur, I was also there. He said, 'I have apologized so many times.' I know a lot of people may say that she has been working with him for 11 years, how can something like this happen now and so suddenly? Anything can happen at anytime, but one should not take undue advantage of his/her position."
 
  Deepak Kandoi, who has been with the group for more than two years and was also among those who left with Shilpi, tells us, "It took me a long time to accept that this actually happened. It seemed unbelievable. On the last day, when Shilpi was leaving, he said, 'I have apologized so many times about it and I am apologizing again right now.' After this, I did not see any point in continuing with the group."
 
  
  
 
 
  However, those who are still a part of Asmita tell us that Shilpi left because she wanted to start her own group. Rahul Khanna, a member of Asmita, says, "I think she wanted to start her own thing and that is why she left. Other than that, I do not know anything. You can ask Arvind sir about more details."
 
  
  
 
 
  Another member, Prabhakar Pandey, adds, "She left because she wanted to start her own theatre group. I think when you reach a certain position, you wish to start you own thing."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  In the last couple of months, Shilpi has been commenting on and sharing stories about sexual harassment on FB
  
  
 
 
