MUMBAI: The Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) police arrested a 43-year-old Santacruz resident who allegedly falsely introduced himself as an alumnus of different colleges and duped several teachers of a few thousands of rupees.

  alias Istiyak  , who claimed to have pursued M Com, approached teachers and sought money ranging between Rs 3,000 and Rs 12,000 for his mother's treatment mostly for a fracture. He has allegedly duped at least a dozen professors by using the same trick and same name “Pitamber“ across the city and in Navi Mumbai this year. TOI was the first to report the story in its May 28 edition.
 
 Pitamber ran out of luck when he revisited the Mum bai University's Kalina campus on June 28, a month after he had tried to meet professor Balkrishna Bhosale (48) with the intention to collect money.
 
 “Bhosale suspected Sayyed during his first meet on June 29 when he introduced himself as alumnus and asked him to help with money.Bhosale had alerted others on the campus to be careful if they saw Sayyed again. On Friday, Sayyed visited the university again, Bhosale called up the police station and kept him engaged and got him arrested,“ said the police.
 
 It is learnt that Sayyedduped NITIE professor   of Rs 16,000 after approaching him on July 5 and tricked him with the same emotional story. Shrivastavlodged a complaint at Powai police station on July 6.
 
 A police officer said Sayyed speaks polished English and displays good manners.He managed to convince teachers that he had indeed passed out from the institute and now works for a bank abroad.
 
 “Sayyed dropped names of some teachers who taught him about 10-15 years ago, some of them retired ones, to make his claim sound true.He does his homework before approaching colleges. He must be looking up teachers' names on college websites or reading old college magazines, according to the victims,“ said the officer.
 
 Professors and teachers have been on alert after Sayyed's photo was circulated across WhatsApp groups of college teachers and principals with a warning since May after he duped many.
 
 “He visited AC Patil College of Engineering, Kharghar, in May and met me. I immediately asked him to get a photo clicked for the college alumni record. Sayyed has been booked for cheating by personation and cheating.He is in custody till July 31.The police are collecting information if he has completed his post-graduation as per his claim and also the total victims he has duped.
 
