MUMBAI: Three decades after being dismissed from service, despite an exoneration over a charge of assaulting a colleague in 1974, a former   (RPF) guard with the   finally has his position,   and rights restored with the   coming to his rescue.

 In a classic case of justice being slow, but sure, the   directed Railways to give Amar Singh, now 74 years old, all his pension and dues within two months.
 
 Justice M S Sonak criticized the manner in which the railway administration penalized the RPF man and upheld an order passed two decades ago by the city civil court to set aside Singh's 1984 dismissal.The subordinate court had, in 1997, ordered his reinstate ment with all consequential benefits. Two years later, the Centre moved HC to appeal against the reinstatement order.
 
 “No finding of guilt can be recorded on the basis of mere suspicion,“ held the HC, while dismissing the appeal, and termed “perverse" an order of a  .
 
 In April 1982, the railways served Singh, a rakshak in RPF since 1960, with a chargesheet alleging that on April 6, 1974, when posted at Kurla, he was found underneath a second-class coach in a western railway yard in suspicious circumstances at 2am, and when apprehended by a colleague for suspected theft, had fled after assaulting him. An inquiry committee had exonerated Singh after finding no evidence against him as the colleague had “totally denied the incident of apprehending him or being assaulted“ and said he had merely told another RPF colleague that he had seen “some outsider who appeared to be like Singh".
 
 The Railways, after even delaying the service of appeal papers on Singh, cited three legal issues to challenge the re instatement order, each of which the HC said lacked me rit. One was that Singh's plea against the dismissal had earlier been rejected by HC and thus barred from being heard again by any other court. But Singh's lawyer said there was no legal bar since it was not rejected on merit, but only to enable him to move the city civil court, which he did in 1985. The HC agreed. It also observed that “the chargesheet was issued after inordinate and unexplained delay of eight years“ and its contents were vague. The HC also observed that the inquiring authority had exonerated him, but a disciplinary authority , in breach of fair play and natural justice, chose to disagree with the findings and penalized him with pay reduction for two years in 1983. The HC said the disciplinary authority's decision was “legally infirm“ and “also vitiated by non-application of mind and perversity“.
 
 A revisional authority then, on its own, dismissed him from service in 1984, an order which the court found lacked any merit.
 
 There was a stay by the HC on the reinstatement order.Had he been reinstated, he would have retired 16 years ago and got all benefits. “To prolong his agony any further...will be neither just nor proper,“ said Justice Sonak and directed the railways to expedite handing him his terminal benefits.
 
