HYDERABAD: The Telangana state government informed the   on Monday that it had denied permission for a protest rally by the   (TJAC) in Hyderabad on February 22 because extremist organisations and persons had infiltrated the group.

 Justice A Ramalingeswara Rao was hearing a case filed by TJAC chairman Kodandaram who had told the court that the police had not responded to two representations made by him seeking permission to hold a protest rally for unemployed youth. He alleged the youth were unhappy with the state for not fulfilling its promise of providing jobs.
 
 According to the petitioner's counsel B Rachna Reddy, the rally would be a peaceful one and would start at   and culminate at Indira Park where a meeting would be held at dharna chowk. “We made our ap plication on February 1 and there has been no decision made by the police till date,“ she said.
 
 The judge turned critical and asked Telangana counsel H Venugopal as to why no decision had been taken about the rally for 20 days. “You decide by the evening and tell us. Otherwise, the court would pass an order this evening,“ Justice Ramalingeswara Rao said.
 
 In the evening, Telangana Advocate General   told the court that permission to hold the meet at the Indira Park had been rejected because it cannot accommodate more than a thousand people, far less than what TJAC was planing to mobilise for the event. Holding rallies within GHMC limits that too on a working day would create more law and order and civic problems, he said. The AG also suggested al ternative venues such as Samshabad, Miyapur, Abdullapurmet, Nagole, Gandipet and Cherial in Keesara mandal of Ranga Reddy district where more open spaces are available.
 
 The petitioner's counsel Rachna then told the court that TJAC would drop the idea of holding a rally and instead confine itself to conducting a meeting under whatever conditions the police would impose but insisted that the meeting should be allowed within Hyderabad city limits.
 
 She also suggested alternatives like   grounds, NTR Stadium, Necklace Road, LB Stadium, among other places.
 
 The judge then zeroed in on Nizam College grounds and wanted to know if the protest would be put off to February 26, Sunday, to avoid hassle to other citizens. The judge asked the counsel to contact Kodandaram and to give his response by Tuesday, when the case would come up for hearing again for orders to be given by the court.
 
