PATNA: The formal commissioning of rehabilitation works on the dilapidated   has been put on hold for the time being as senior officials in the   and Highways (MoRTH) are waiting for the final date from the PMO.
 
  PM   was initially scheduled to commission the works on January 15, but the programme was postponed owing to the boat tragedy in Sabbalpur diara area where 24 people lost their lives on the   on January 14.
  
  Officials, however, claimed that the groundwork is under way and dismantling of the existing structure on the Setu would commence once the state government readies the alternative routes, including two pontoon bridge near the Setu.
  
  The existing concrete road deck of the 34-year-old bridge is proposed to be dismantled and steel frames are to be erected under the proposed renovation. The western flank of the bridge — Patna to   — is proposed to be demolished first from the Hajipur end.
  
  “Senior officials at our headquarters are in regular touch with the PMO for getting a date for the PM to formally commission the rehabilitation works. Besides, a formal request for getting appointment from the Prime Minister would also be made. The formal commissioning of works is, however, not an obstacle in the project as the contractor has started the groundwork from November last year,” said a senior MoRTH official in Patna.
  
  Sources said the MoRTH formally appointed  . for the Setu rehabilitation project on November 19, which marked the commencement of groundwork and mobilization of equipment. The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs1,742.01 crore.
  
  Unavailability of alternative traffic arrangement is, however, a cause of concern for the state authorities. “It was initially proposed that two pontoon bridges would be made ready before the commissioning of the rehabilitation works. However, the pontoon bridges got delayed owing to floods in August-September last year. We are, however, expecting the first pontoon bridge to be ready by the end of February and another by March,” said a senior official in  , the agency constructing the pontoon bridges.
