NAGPUR: Sanjay Mahakalkar, who was removed from the post of leader of the opposition in the   last week, filed a writ petition before vacation judge A Chandurkar at the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday.

 The petitioner has sought his reinstatement to the post on the contention that the entire process of election of   as leader of the Congress group in the civic house was illegal and without following the set norms of municipal corporation. and party politics.
 
 The court, while admitting the petition, issued notices to the divisional commissioner  , municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and Wanve. It also agreed to hear on Friday, the arguments on behalf of Mahakalkar on the interim prayer of seeking stay on Wanve’s appointment as leader of the opposition.
 
 Mahakalar has challenged the order issued by the divisional commissioner on the basis of which he was replaced by Wanve. He said, once he was appointed to the post with the proper endorsement of the Congress party high command and with full support of all the 29 elected Congress corporators, there was no way he could be replaced by a faction of the party corporators.
 
 A direct consequence of internal factional fight in the Congress, Mahakalkar has the backing of city party president Vikas Thakre and his mentor, ex-MP   who are currently controlling the city party unit. However, in the internal struggle, the leaders wanting to end Muttemwar-Thakre supremacy brought about a split among the Congress corporators with 17 of the 29 expressing lack of faith in Mahakalkar and favouring Wanve as the group leader.
 
 Even as the courtroom battle looks all set to heat up, Wanve has filed a caveat in the matter and is already up for a fight. Meanwhile, outside the court, Thakre , whose nomination for co-opted member also stands rejected, claimed that Mahakalkar would stage a comeback and would prove a majority support in his favour soon.
 
 On Tuesday, Wanve called for a meeting in his cabin of all zonal officers and his party corporators to discuss preparedness for the monsoon and special arrangements for water supply to be made for the coming Ramzan month and Eid.
 
 Responding to the legal challenge to his appointment as LoP, Wanve said he was well-prepared and has a string favour as all aspects of who how he commands support of majority in the civic Congress group are or record.
 
