RAJKOT: With seizure of 19,600 more fake Rs 2,000 currency notes from a car in Punitnagar area in city late night on Friday, the total counterfeit notes seized from the two persons arrested last month, has risen to over 22,000. 

 Earlier, cops had recovered over 2,400 fake Rs 2,000 notes. This could be the biggest fake currency racket busted in the country post demonetization.
 
 Police investigation further revealed that the main accused   along with his close aide  , used to print counterfeit currency notes at a flat in Panchnath area since January. They had scanned the original note and printed it on high quality paper. 
 
 The fake currency racket was busted during investigation into a cheating case by Rajkot police. Police got information about the fake notes during questioning of an accused in a cheating case.
 
 Nitin Ajani (45), a resident of   on  , in Rajkot, had lodged a complaint of cheating on February 24 against Dave (30) and his close aide Patel (40).
 
 According to Ajani's complaint, Dave, who ran an accounting firm, had transferred Rs 50 lakh through RTGS from his bank account to the account of BK Enterprise a few weeks ago. However, when the accused did not return the amount, Ajani filed a complaint following which cops arrested Dave and Patel.
 
 During questioning, Dave told police that he had the cash lying at his office in   on Gondal Road. When police searched his office it recovered a bag containing Rs 2,000 currency notes. However, on first look, the cops suspected genuineness of the currency notes and sent it to the forensic lab which confirmed that the notes were fake.
 
 On Wednesday, police also arrested Ketan Dave's driver Umang Suthar. He revealed that Dave also owned a car. When police searched the car a bag full of counterfeit currency was recovered. In total, police have arrested six accused in this case so far. Police said that following the new revelation, it will approach court again to get custody of Dave who is currently in judicial custody.
 
 
