Chandigarh: In a first of its kind competition in Panjab University, 100 teams comprising three students each will compete for a mediation and negotiation test scheduled to be held on September 20 and 21 at University Institute of Legal Studies. 

 The competition is unique in the fact that it will train the students of law to develop their social skills, including the ability to communicate effectively taking into account the human emotions involved in the process. Professor Rattan Singh, director, UILS has provided the platform for this event and provides his unstinted support for these activities. Dr Shruti Bedi, mentor of UILS ADR & CCL Board, said this initiative is being undertaken to make the students aware of the consensual form of resolving disputes.
 
 The event right from its inception has received an overwhelming response, so much so that the registrations had to be closed in a couple of days. As many as 137 teams had registered in the first instance. However, due to infrastructural constraints, it had to be restricted to a maximum of 100 teams. The propositions for the various rounds will be based on different aspects of family and commercial law.
 
 The competition is spread over two days. The preliminary rounds will begin on September 20 morning at 9.30 am, which will carry on till 1pm. Thereafter, the quarter final rounds are scheduled to take place at 2.30 pm. The semi-final rounds are scheduled to take place on September 21 in the morning. Two teams will be shortlisted for the final rounds which are scheduled to take place at 3pm. This will be followed by the prize distribution ceremony for the winning teams and students.
 
 The competition is being organized by the UILS ADR & CCL Board which has been constituted in July and this is its first initiative. The board comprises 12 members from the 3rd, 4th & 5th year students. 
 
 The board members have put in their best effort in making this competition a success. The mediation centre of the Punjab and Haryana high court has played a very important role by providing trained mediators from the high court for judging the competition.
 
 
