PUNE: The state had a rain bounty off late, with the central Maharashtra being the biggest beneficiary.

 The subdivision, including Pune, recorded the best rainfall in the past six years between June 1 and   20. Marathwada and Vidarbha, reeling from stresses of a dry patch, also salvaged their rainfall   with the rain quantum till July 20 this year being the second highest in the past four years.
 
 Similar story ensues for the Konkan-Goa belt, recording over 1,600mm rainfall since June 1 to July 20 this year — the second highest in the past four years for the subdivision.
 
 The unique placement of monsoon systems over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal worked in Maharashtra’s favour and provided continuous rain to the state, including rain-shadowed regions.
 
 A senior Met department official told TOI that the central or   had benefited from the recent rain in particular. “The positioning of the monsoon systems was such that central Maharashtra drew the maximum benefit in terms of ‘surplus’ rain. Rainfall was good across Maharashtra, beginning from July 13 or 14. The combined effect of three systems activated monsoon in the state — a system over east Uttar Pradesh and its consequent southward movement around July 13, another monsoon system over the Bay of Bengal and yet another over Gujarat,” he said.
 
 Rainfall in India finally touched its normal quantum at 99% of the long period average around July 18, after a fortnight of deficient rain from July beginning. 
 
 The rainfall in Maharashtra, July 13 or 14 onwards, began filling up deficits across most subdivisions in state.
 
 Vidarbha, lagging behind with (-24%) rainfall deficiency till July 18, is now almost in the clear with its shortfall dipping to -5% till July 20. “A typical feature this monsoon is the lack of northward propagation of convective pattern, which enhances rainfall,” another Met official said.
 
 Retired scientist of Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology J R   said last week’s good rainfall activity over Maharashtra was due to the presence of low pressure systems over Odisha moving westwards over central India. “Vidarbha was in the southern sector of the low pressure system and so it received good rainfall,” he said.
 
 Kulkarni said from July 13 to 19, Madhya Maharashtra and Vidarbha reported 76% surplus rain, while Konkan registered 67% and Marathwada 17% surplus rainfall.
 
