NOIDA: Even as   is preparing to bring an ordinance to regulate the fee structure in private schools, the   (ICC), Noida - a social body of residents and social workers - have written to   Union minister of Human Resource and Development (HRD) on Saturday, demanding a regulatory commission for   to regulate their working and fee structure.

 "Of late, we have seen unauthorised and whimsical pattern of increase in school fees of private schools which have resulted in unnecessary burden on the parents. This is not only arbitrary but unjustifiable. Hence we’ve written to   Prakash Javadekar demanding a regulatory commission to monitor such fee hike in private schools,” said PS Jain, president ICC.
 
 According to Jain, just like there are regulatory bodies to check various sectors such as stocks and commodities market (through SEBI), real estate (through Real Estate Regulatory Authority), Healthcare via Medical Council of India, legal system through Bar Council of India, telephone/mobile through Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and so on, private education sector also needs to conform to a regulatory body.
 
 “It is a very sad state that the main building blocks towards nation building which are our schools and the education sector, especially private ones, have made education a business venture and run their schools and institutes as a business. This, despite availing various benefits under ‘no profit no loss’ scheme of various education trusts from centre and state governments,” said Jain who adds that time has come to bring their fee charges under a regulatory body.
 
 Prashant Tyagi, general secretary ICC maintained that they have written to Javadekar asking to fix various criteria under which private school/education institute’s fees should be increased. “Also, since most such educational institutes are private and run under trusts or societies, we have demanded Javadekar that they be brought under the purview of income tax audit explaining under what category they increased the fee with audited documents of their spending,” said Tyagi who also added that such reports be made public to ensure transparency.
 
 Currently five states including Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, and Maharashtra have already brought in legislation to regulate fees in private schools. Uttar Pradesh is all set to join these states to frame a law to regulate the fee structure in private schools.
 
 
