NEW DELHI: Just like with skewed human sex ratios in some parts of the world, ' ' has affected the animal kingdom too.

 Scientists recently filmed a snow monkey trying to have intercourse with a sika deer in  's Yukushima island. Experts cited "mate deprivation" as the most likely reason for this behaviour. They also already considered the likelihood that the males in question only began to learn to copulate and failed to recognise that the deer was of a different species.
 
 Snow monkeys and sika deer are known have a strong symbiotic relationship. The deer often feed on fruits dropped from trees by the monkeys. In return, the monkeys get to ride around the jungle on the backs of the deer.
 
 According to a new study published in the journal Primates, experts detailed at the attempts by a male monkey to have sex with at least two different female deer. The monkey was thwarted in the first attempt as the deer pushed it away. The monkey had more luck on his second attempt. 
 
 "No ambiguity is possible, it is clearly sexual behaviour," said the study's lead author Marie Pelé of the   in France.
 
 "The monkey can be witnessed guarding his deer partner and chasing away other male monkeys who attempted to come near," Pelé added.
 
 That the monkeys hadn't learned to copulate was less likely, the study's authors said.
 
 "Although this phenomenon may be explained as copulation learning, this is highly unlikely. The most realistic hypothesis would be that of mate deprivation, which states that males with limited access to females are more likely to display this behaviour," the experts said in the research paper.
 
 In 2006, researchers detailing findings in the journal Polar Biology saw, for the first time, an Antarctic fur seal trying to mate with a king penguin on the sub-Antarctic  , which served as a home to both animals.
 
 In their study, the researchers believed that the rare act could be the reflection of a sexually inexperienced and frustrated seal's behaviour, or a show of aggression or predation, or simply animal play that became sexual.
 
  
  
 
