MUMBAI: Fed up with officials flouting rules and refusing to take up postings in backwards districts, the state cabinet has now approved the notification of the rules to make these postings mandatory. 

 Officials who refuse to serve in these districts will not be allowed to move to  . The decision was taken by the cabinet on Tuesday as for more than a year the state general administration has been struggling to fill vacancies in backward districts though rules to fill up vacancies in such districts had come into force in july 2015.
 
 Sources said for the past one year the general administration has been struggling to implement the rules as officials hanker for postings in 'preferred' divisions and 'preferred' districts within divisions. The golden belt Mumbai-Pune-Nashik is the most favoured for postings among the state cadre. In Konkan division, officials seek postings only in Mumbai and Thane. Officials do not want to be posted in Nagpur, Amravati revenue divisions. Within Nagpur division, officials prefer Nagpur and Wardha, and avoid backward districts like Gadchiroli. These strong preferences have resulted in huge vacancies in backward divisions, and especially the backward districts.
 
 Often to avoid postings to the backward districts, officials would bring in political pressure or obtain a stay from the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal. "With the rules proposed to be notified, this avenue will now close and those directly recruited will have their appointments cancelled if they refuse the  ," said an official. 
 
 To ensure that those who begin their career in the Konkan division or are promoted here go to Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhdurga first, the cabinet also approved the division of Konkan into Konkan-1 comprising the four backward districts and Konkan-2 comprising Mumbai and Thane. To qualify for Konkan-2, the officials will first have to complete a term in Konkan-1.
 
 Officials are grouped in two groups - Group A consists of officials who begin as deputy collectors while Group B consists of officials of the rank of tehsildar. As per the rules, those who are directly recruited to Group A and B in the state cadre will be compulsorily posted in the backward districts. Vacancies in the backward divisions and districts will be filled first. 
 
 "There are huge vacancies in backward districts such as Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Gondia, Washim and such other districts. Officials refuse postings to these districts with the result government schemes cannot be implemented and the people continue to suffer," said the chief minister's office. Officials often cite personal reasons for avoiding postings to these backward districts. Health and children's education are the two main reasons that are regularly cited, said an official.
 
 Now, the most meritorious will be posted in the most backward districts, starting with Gadchiroli, Gondia and Bhandara in Nagpur division, followed by backward districts in Amravati then Aurangabad, Nashik, Konkan-1 divisions. This applies to both Groups A and B. "After completing nine and six years respectively of service these officials will be allowed to choose other divisions but Konkan-1, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik cities will be given much later in their career," said an official.
 
 In case of promotees, those promoted to Group A posts, will have to serve six years and those promoted to Group B three years in the backward districts. Those who begin their career in Konkan-2, Pune or other cities will compulsorily be transferred to the backward districts after completing their first term. Those refusing postings in backward districts will have their promotion cancelled. Interestingly, a large number of women officials refuse promotions if they are posted to these backward districts. "Such officials who refuse promotions will not be allowed to stay on in the district of their choice, but will be shifted to adjoining districts in the same revenue division. Like for instance, someone preferring to stay on in Mumbai will be moved to Thane, Aurangabad to Latur etc," said an official.
 
