MUMBAI: The newly appointed chairman designate of Tata Sons,   has a bunch of legal matters on his plate to address on priority. Prominent among them is the petition filed by two companies representing former group chairman  , which seeks to block the latter’s removal as   director and wants the Tata parent company’s entire existing board ousted.

 More immediately, the national company law tribunal (NCLT) will hear on January 16 a contempt petition filed by the same two firms, Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments, against Tata Sons, Ratan Tata, and other directors and Tata trustees, which alleges that they breached an interim order of the tribunal by calling for a meeting to remove Mistry as Tata Sons director on February 6.
 
 On December 22, 2016, almost two months after Mistry was sacked, two of his family-owned firms had moved NCLT against Tata Sons citing oppression of their rights as minority shareholders. The NCLT on December 22 set January 31-February 1 as dates to hear and decide their plea.
 
 Meanwhile, in Bombay high courtthere are other petitions filed against Tata Sons, two by another group of minority shareholders and one by industrialist   claiming Rs 3,000 crore in damages for alleged defamation. 
 
 Wadia’s contention was that a special notice seeking his removal as independent director of three   companies contained allegedly defamatory statements.
 
 On December 16, the HC allowed three listed Tata companies to go ahead with their EGMs and decide on removal of independent director Nusli Wadia. The court also permitted results of voting on his removal to be acted upon, but said it would be subject to the outcome of a dispute brought to court by a few minority shareholders. Justice S J Kathawalla said one seat would be kept vacant on the boards of these three companies till further orders.
 
 The first legal salvo since the ouster of Mistry was fired by four non-promoter shareholders who dragged Tata group to high court. They claimed Mistry’s removal was “motivated and mala fide” and demanded over Rs 41,000 crore in damages for themselves and all similarly placed non-promoter shareholders of listed Tata group entities for the “losses suffered as a result” since. The class-action suit has no fixed date for a hearing.
 
 
