NEW DELHI: The flat buyers' association, which played a key role in pushing the real estate regulation law has now started a new exercise to map and prepare a list of delayed projects across the country . After one of the major real estate bodies, CREDAI, raised the demand for excluding ongoing projects from the ambit of regulation, the flat buyers' body is now compiling the number of housing projects that have been delayed by years.
“Our aim is to bust two myths the real estate lobbies are selling. First they maintain that only a few fly-by-night players are bringing bad name to the industry and most of their members adhere to the norms. Most of them claim their buyers are happy . Second, only new projects should be covered under new re gulation to start enforcement of law without getting into legacy . We will expose them on both these fronts with data and will present them to the government,“ said   , national convenor of Fight For RERA.
 
 Upadhyay said they were surprised to get details from flat buyers how housing projects are delayed inordinately in relatively smaller cities such as Puri, Thane and Belgaum. “We have already got over 350 response and we are reaching out to more flat buyers across the country so that we have a bigger data to counter the lobbying that is being done by the real estate developers at central and state levels.The problem is acute not just in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore but almost in every part on India,“ he added.
 
 At present, there is no national level data on how many projects are delayed and for how long, which has helped the builders to pass the blame on to unidentified flyby-night operators. Early this month CREDAI had demanded keeping all ongoing (incomplete) real estate projects out of the ambit of real estate regulation law and said it should cover only new launches.Responding to this, housing minister M   had said, “With regard to ongoing projects also...I wish I could transfer all my emails to CREDAI and let there be some committee address those issues...Address those issues, take corrective actions and then I can tell them prospective and not retrospective.“
 
 Naidu had also said the government was not asking developers to do anything more than what they have promised to people. “What you have promised on the paper, simply complete that, we will stand by you. Simply adhere to the advertisement,“ he had said.
 
