HYDERABAD: Chief minister   said on Friday that the   was committed to the welfare of minorities and protection of Urdu language and  . He also said that the government would bring various offices related to the issues of minorities to one place to save people's time and unnecessary hassles in travelling from one part of the city to another.

 Speaking on this issue in the Assembly on Friday , the chief minister said that his government was ready to allot land in lieu of Wakf land sold and encroached upon in the past few years.
 
 “A House committee headed by Nizamabad MLA   will look into issues of Wakf land and properties. A panel meeting will be held to finalise the issue,“   said.
 
 He said that the previous government sold Wakf land and in some cases, even allotted such land to multi-national companies. And now, there is no proper record on availability of Wakf land. “Since land allotted to MNCs cannot be taken back, the government has to compensate the board,“ he said.
 
 KCR added that decades ago, the Nizam constructed a `Rubaat' (inn) near the Mecca in Saudi Arabia and people from the erstwhile Nizam's state were treated as `Guests of Allah.' On the Rubaat proposed near the Ajmer dargah, he said that deputy chief minister Mohd Mahmood Ali went to Rajasthan and sought land for it. 
 
 He said, “A delegation headed by the deputy chief minister will go to Rajasthan again after the current Assembly session and meet the state chief minister on this. The Telangana government is even ready to purchase land for this if required.“
 
 He also said that orders would soon be issued to make Urdu the second official language in all 31 districts of Telangana, adding that, “There is a saying that `Urdu was born in Hyderabad, patronised in Delhi and flourished in Lucknow.“ The government, he said, was committed to the development of the language.He said that the government would take all measures for the development of dargahs.
 
 Reacting to MIM MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi's remark that the road near Yousufain dargah is very narrow, KCR said he would visit the dargah and explore the possibility of widening the road.
 
