MEERUT: Traders in Meerut have expressed their concern at the deteriorating law and order situation in the city even as cops were busy in “overzealously” implementing the   ahead of  .
 
  Half a dozen robbers had forcibly entered a jeweller’s house in the early hours of Thursday and robbed the household of Rs 3 lakh cash and 900 gm of gold jewellery after taking everyone at gunpoint. The incident occurred in the heart of the city  . Another trader dealing in sports goods was targeted on Friday night when robbers entered his house in Ganganagar area of the city and took away household items worth lakhs. On Friday, armed miscreants attacked a transporter and fired at his vehicle repeatedly before fleeing away. 
  
  Speaking with TOI, Navin Gupta, president of Sanyukt Vyapar Sangh, Meerut, said, “While the police is busy checking vehicles and seizing so-called black money,   are having a field day. Law and order has completely collapsed. We do not have a sense of security any longer.”
  
  Manish Chadha, a trader who deals in pharmaceuticals, said, “This kind of atmosphere is generally seen before every election. Earlier, the kidnapping industry used to flourish here during polls. But now, just a phone call by some extortionist is enough to instil fear among us.”
  
  The district police chief, however, denied any deteriorating in the law and order situation. Senior superintendent of police J Ravindra Goud said, “We are committed to providing security to the residents. There could be stray incidents but overall situation is very much under control. Now with 61 additional vehicles provided to the city under UP Dial 100 scheme, response time has reduced to mere 10-15 minutes. Regarding the recent robberies, our investigations are at an advanced stage and soon we will solve the cases.”
  
  Traders, however, said the Dial 100 vehicles were reaching the crime scene no less than half an hour after the crime. They plan to meet the police chief soon to apprise them of their concerns.
