
Vikhroli flower vendor Ankush Parab couldn't stop his tears as he waited outside KEM Hospital's ground-floor ICU. He always left home in the mornings to buy flowers from the Dadar flower market but on Friday he asked his young sons to do the task--and paid a very heavy price for his request.
 
 “My 11-year-old Rohit is dead,“ he wept. His other son, Akash (18), has fractured his right leg and has been admitted to the ICU. “My wife is with Akash but we also have to go the mortuary for Rohit's post-mortem,“ he added. His wife was a weeping wreck as she was taken to the mortuary for identification and paperwork later in the day .
 
 Through his tears and shock, Ankush said that his sons were familiar with the   Road routine as they had often accompanied him for the purchases. The family would then sell the flowers at their roadside shop on Group Number 5 in Vikhroli East. “I had enough flowers from the previous day and didn't think we needed to make a big purchase. I felt the boys could manage on their own,“ he said. The boys, though, were caught in the stampede that took 22 lives on Friday morning.
 
 A few Shiv Sainiks who spotted Ankush outside the ICU began to help him by making phone calls on his behalf. “The man told us that he has no relatives in Mumbai. He also didn't have a phone on him. We started calling his relatives in Kudal so that someone could come over to help them,'' said Sena's Kailash Patil.
 
 
 
 MUMBAI: Badlapur resident Chandan Singh (28) intended to leave for his hometown in Madhya Pradesh in a year to avoid risky commute on Mumbai's local trains. The Badlapur resident's worst fears came true on Friday , for he was among the 22 who died in the stampede at Elphinstone Road station bridge. He is survived by his wife and a two-year-old child.
 
 The accountant with a private firm in Elphinstone Road had gotten off the train at   when it began to pour. “He might have taken shelter on the bridge (that connects Parel with Elphinstone) while waiting for the downpour to thin,“ said a colleague. Chandan's uncle, Subhash Singh (in pic), who reached KEM Hospital to claim the body , said, “I called Chandan's father in Satna and told him of an accident. However, he himself asked whether his son was alive or...“ “It was a shock for him,“ added Subhash in between sobs. Chandan's father, Avdhesh Singh, has left for the city .
 
 Avdhesh wanted Chandan to settle in Bhopal. “ Avdhesh always felt that Mumbai was a fast city and travelling by crowded trains is life-threatening. He kept begging his son to leave Mumbai and recently Chandan too fell in line with the idea. He wanted to save before leaving the city for good.“
 
 
 
 
 
 MUMBAI: The main scene outside KEM Hospital on Friday was grieving families struggling to come to terms with their loss.
 The Shaikh family lost two members, Masood from Govandi and Mohammed Shakil from Mumbra. Masood's nephew Ajmal took deep breaths to calm himself down before telling TOI his mother and aunt were yet to know his uncle and cousin had died. When she learnt that her husband had died, Ajmal's aunt became hysterical, screaming and swaying as news cameramen jostled for a better angle. Ajmal shielded her to protect her privacy . “She has four children,“ he told TOI.“The oldest is 13 and the youngest is just three.“
 
 A few hours later, Meena Varun Kumar's mother walked into the ward supported by relatives. She had no idea that her daughter had perished. She broke down when she heard the news. Her daughter was a clerk at the Maharashtra Labour Welfare Board. She died on her way to work, along with a 25year-old colleague. “Meena died on the spot, but Shraddha died later in the ambulance,“ said Sunil Kolambkar.
 
 Others, like Amir Gourav (23) left the hospital shaken by the experience, but relieved to be alive. “There was a huge crowd and people began slipping on the bridge because of the rain,“ said Gourav, who suffered a leg injury . “I fell on the bridge and was lying there for 20-25 minutes before I was rescued.“
 
 Amid the outpouring of grief, a revolving cast of politicians made an appearance--from Shaina NC to Piyush Goyal to Vinod Tawde to Uddhav Thackeray--causing a member of the hospital staff to quip that the wards had become a “tourist spot“. While some termed the incident “unfortunate“, other indulged in angry tirades against the railway administration. Shiv Sena leader Arvind Sawant, for instance, told reporters that “a case of culpable homicide should be registered against railway officials“.
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai
  Every day , Kalyan residents Shraddha Varpe and her father, who has a limp, would go together to work at the Kamgar Kalyan Kendra near Elphinstone Road. On Friday morning, as it was raining, the 23-year-old asked her father, Kishore Varpe (53), to make his way down the overcrowded railway bridge while she waited near the ticket counter.She said she would catch up with him after he got down the stairs. “She wanted shelter from the rain. Her father took approximately 10 minutes to get down and started calling her on her cellphone because of the sudden commotion all around. But she didn't take her calls,'' recounted family friend Bhimrao Dhulap. After police arrived, Varpe found Shraddha's body .
 
 Varpe said they used to travel in the same compartment every day . But as she was in a saree on Friday , she travelled in the ladies compartment and then decided to wait near the ticket counter because she didn't want her saree to get wet.
 
 The news of Shraddha's death wasn't told to her mother, Sudha, till the time of going to press as she is a heart patient.Although posters and WhatsApp messages were put out to offer Shradhanjali to the young victim, her mother was kept in the dark. Ganesh Tavar, an IT engineer from the locality , was the first in the area to get information about Shraddha's death. “I work in Prabhadevi. As soon as I heard about the mishap at Elphinstone Road station, I called up on her cellphone but there was no reply ,'' he said. Around 2 pm, a colleague of Shraddha picked up Tavar's call and told about the mishap.
 
 
 
 MUMBAI: An 18-year-old victim of the tragedy , Mayuresh Haldankar, was being cautious by taking a train instead of riding pillion on his friend's motorbike as it was raining heavily . Little did he know that his decision to cross the Elphinstone railway bridge would be fatal.
 Described as fun-loving by his friends, Mayuresh was the sole breadwinner in his family of five. He regularly commuted with his friend on the latter's bike to his office at Masjid Bundar, said his friend Amit Reshim, who lives in the same Worli BDD chawl, No. 80, where Mayuresh's family lives.
 
 “As it was pouring in the morning, he decided to go to the railway station. Had he followed his routine, he would be with us today ,“ said a visibly emotional Amit. He received a call from Mayuresh's mobile after the tragedy . The person on the other side told him Mayuresh had met with a serious accident and was in a critical condition. The caller asked Amit to rush to KEM Hospital.
 
 Mayuresh's parents were in shock after receiving news of their son's untimely death and weren't able to react. He is survived by his father, mother, sister (who is a year older to him), and an aunt who lives with the family .
 
 On Friday morning, Mayuresh called Amit while he was leaving for work. As Amit hadn't taken a bath or had breakfast, he asked Mayuresh to go ahead.“Mayuresh was a very sensitive person who loved celebrating festivals like Gokulashtami and  ,“ said Amit.
 
 “A skilled artist who loved helping his friend make Ganesh idols, Mayuresh had received training at Worli village from a local sculptor. He had planned to make a Ganesh idol for next year's celebrations at his building.“
 
