NOIDA: The   CEO   on Thursday said that relief is in store for 1,000 homebuyers with residences in three of Jaypee group’s housing projects. Prasad said the Authority has completed the inspections of nine towers across the three projects and will be issuing the completion certificates by July 17.

 Speaking to TOI, Prasad said the three projects include Jaypee Aman, Jaypee Cosmos and Jaypee Klassic, all of which are located in Wish Town. About 27,000 buyers are agitating against the developer for the delay in giving possession of their promised flats.
 
 “While five towers will be cleared in Jaypee Aman, two towers each will be given the   in Cosmos and Klassic projects,” the CEO said, adding, “Our teams have completed the inspections of the nine towers. We should be issuing the completions by Monday after which buyers will be able to get the registries done. Builders will also be able to hand over possession.”
 
 Prasad further said the Authority was also trying to revive another five stuck group housing projects by facilitating meetings between realtors and bankers aiming to get bankers to lend money to realtors. 
 
 Banks stopped lending to developers in Noida as they fear non-repayment of loans due to the financial crisis the builders are facing.
 
 Prasad hoped that if bankers help builders with their financial crisis, many developers will be able to resume construction and finish housing projects to deliver flats to homebuyers. 
 
 Thousands of homebuyers have been suffering due to delayed delivery of flats as builders have failed to finish projects in time citing a fund crunch amid slowdown in the realty sector. 
 
 “We have received a positive response from the bankers regarding these builders. If all works out, at least 2,000 home buyers from these projects will be able to get possession of their homes, soon,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Noida Authority will soon finalise a private agency to monitor the progress of ongoing and delayed projects for ending the builder-buyer impasse.
 
