A 21-year-old man has been booked by   after a Dubai based woman complained of being sexually assaulted while she was studying in Pune last year. The complainant has claimed that the affair turned harrowing for her when revealed to the accused that she was pregnant and was given   by the man, instead of taking her to a doctor.

 Based on the 20-year-old woman's grievances, the Yerwada police have booked the man identified as Akshay Manoj Jaisinghani (21) under section 376 for rape, section 504 for intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace and section 506 for criminal intimidation. According to the police, Jaisinghani works with a private firm based in Viman Nagar as a manager. He applied for an anticipatory bail as soon as the case was registered against him.
 
 The complainant is a   and had flown down to Pune for education. She was a student of a college in Deccan. In her statement, she has said that she came in touch with Jaisinghani through some common friends.
 
 Assistant police inspector Seema Dhakne of Yerwada police station, who is investigating the case, confirmed the fact that the girl had indeed come in contact with Jaisinghani through mutual circles. “He would always contact the complaint and he would ask her to meet,“ she said.
 
 The 20-year-old stated that they had started meeting regularly. On one such outing, Jaisinghani took her to his flat and sexually exploited her. Dhakne said, “After the incident, they continued meeting each other. A few months on, she realised that she was pregnant.“ Later, she approached Jaisinghani and informed him about her pregnancy.
 
 “Upon informing him, he took it lightly and told her that he will give her some pills which will terminate the pregnancy. He did not take her to any doctor, but he himself brought her the pills and demanded that she have them. She trusted his instinct and consumed the medicine with hope of ending her pregnancy,“ Dhakne said.
 
 After self-medication, the complainant flew back to her home in Dubai. After a few weeks, she was shocked to know that the pregnancy wasn't concluded. The anxious 20-year-old then flew back to Pune to meet Jaisinghani. When she told him that she was still pregnant, he refused to take any responsibility of hers and started avoiding her.
 
 “When the woman tried to meet him, he started threatening her of dire consequences and asked her to stay away from him. When he started threatening her, the girl finally approached the police and lodged complaint against him,“ Dhakne added.
 
 According to the police, Jaisinghani has applied for anticipatory bail in the sessions court, but the police have challenged his bail application. Upon his rejection, he moved to the   (HC), where he was granted an anticipatory bail.
 
