PUNE: The   bench here on Thursday gave two weeks time to the state director of town planning, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and two others to file their replies on the alleged move to alter the Mutha and Mula-Mutha  , as shown in the revised   for Pune (old city limits).

 The state government, through the town planning director, recently released the DP for Pune (old city limits) for inviting suggestions and objections from public.
 
 Architect Sarang Yadvadkar and activist Vivek Velankar have claimed in a joint plea before the tribunal that the alteration of the blue and the red floodlines towards the centre of the river would result in illegal conversion of the prohibitive zone (where no structure is allowed) into a restrictive zone (where buildings are allowed) and the restrictive zone into a regular commercial or residential zone. They claimed the move is aimed at legalising existing and future encroachment on riverbeds.
 
 The bench of Justice U. D. Salvi and expert member Ajay A. Deshpande posted the matter for next hearing on July 21 following a brief proceeding during which it questioned the applicants on the need to include the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and the Maharashtra state biodiversity board among the six respondents in the matter.
 
 The bench repeatedly asked what role NDMA had to play when the district disaster management cell under the authority was in place. “No doubt, NDMA controls rivers across the country but is it a case that under the NDMA Act it (NDMA) is responsible for maintaining floodlines in Pune city?” expert member Deshpande asked in reference to the authority’s role.
 
 Lawyer Asim Sarode submitted that NDMA has a role in devising plans in a way that there shall be no disaster. The bench then asked the counsel to show such role and responsibility under the NDMA Act. Justice Salvi observed, “The basic prayer of the applicants is to mark floodlines as per the position originally given by the irrigation department in the DP. So far as the tribunal’s final directions in the matter are concerned, the same are to be implemented by other authorities.”
 
 After seeking the counsel’s view, the bench went on to direct deletion of names of the NDMA and the state biodiversity board from the matter. The remaining four respondents - director of town planning, PMC, Khadakwasla irrigation division and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board have to file their replies in two weeks.
 
