BHOPAL: With tonnes of rotten onion becoming a health hazard across the state and officials burying it in trenches, its price is likely to go up in the coming days. Despite huge production of onion in the state, consumers continue to get it at a rate of Rs 10 to 20 per kg in the market.

 Owing to big mismanagement in storage of onions, several hundred tonnes of bulbs has already been buried across the state after it started making lives of people miserable due to its bad smell. Dumping the rotten onions itself requires huge efforts on the part of the government. Black decomposed onion bulbs could be seen littered along 6 kms stretch of a highway on Chattarpur-Jhansi road. 
 
 Officials requisitioned trucks to remove them from the roadside. This year 32 lakh metric tonnes of onion production took place in the state. With just about 10% capacity to store the produce in the state, the government spent more than Rs 600 crore in purchasing the onion from farmers. 
 
 Government sources said there is no estimate of how much onion purchased from farmers has been destroyed.
 
 Amidst all this, a 50-kg sack of onion was sold in Bhopal mandi on Monday at a price of Rs 300 to Rs 400, depending upon the quality. The bigger bulbs and those pink in colour fetch a better price. Abdool Raqib, president of the wholesalers association of onion and potatoes, said: “ After flooding the mandis a few days back, onions have disappeared now as major quantity of the commodity has been exhausted from the local markets and has been transported outside the state. Those who have the capacity to hold it back, are likely to sell it at premium rates in the coming months. The effect will be felt by the month-end”.
 
 Wholesalers from   and even from Kolkatta purchased onions from   at a rate of Rs 2 a kg and transported it to bigger cities. Besides, the government started diverting the onion to district headquarters by trains and trucksto be sold at fair price shops. In the meantime, onions began to rot at two places — mandis where the farmers unloaded them for a price of Rs 8 a kg and then at railway stations where it was dumped due to lack of proper transportion, government sources said.
 
 In Manasa village of Dhar district, mountains of onion were formed when hundreds of dumpers started bringing the produce, only to be destroyed for want of storage. Additional district magistrate of Dhar DK   told TOI, 
 
 “We have buried 15,000 to 18,000 metric tonnes of onion. About 100 metric tonne is still stored and some of it may also be destroyed. The district administration has a target of selling 1200 metric tonnes from fair price shops”, he said. More than 600 kms away from Dhar, mounds of onion could be seen littered all along the stretch of highways. Before dumping more than 18,000 quintal of onion in trenches created by digging of murram (red clay) on Naugaon-Harpalpur road, the onion was littered on the roadside,  , a resident of Kukrel village said. After the villagers complained of foul smell, it was buried. For some days, students of   primary school stopped attending classes because of the stench of decaying onion bulbs. Latto Prasad Shriwas, headmaster of a primary school, had complained after which the onion was removed. BB Gangale, sub divisional magistrate at Naugaon, said: “ About 18000 quintal was dumped in the mine area. This was the same onion that was lying at Harpalpur railway station creating trouble to passengers. Five special trains loaded with onion had dumped the produce at Chhatrpur’s Harpalpur railway station”.
 
