On Sunday, two brothers from the northeast, both   students, were beaten up by two men at Kishangarh, Vasant Kunj. Their fault? They 'looked similar' to some boys the two men had had an argument with. The incident happened when the two brothers – AK Ningthuilung, a first-year student of SOL, and Robornson Kahmei, 21, a third-year student of Motilal Nehru College – went to the market on Sunday. 

  Ningthuilung, who is the elder of the two, says, "Kahmei, my younger brother, saw a shop selling cheap baseball bats and bought one. On our way back home, some unknown men pushed my brother, took the baseball bat from him, and started beating us. We had never seen them before, and couldn’t understand what was happening. The worst part was that nobody came to help us."
 
  He adds, "After we filed an FIR and the attackers were arrested, we were told that they had gotten into an argument with some other boys from the northeast. They attacked us because we ‘looked similar’. We have never gotten into a fight with anyone."
 
  Other students from the northeast in the city tell us that such cases of mistaken identities are quite common for them. Often, Delhiites tend to club them all into one homogeneous group. 
 
  
  (L-R) Simsim Ronglo, Esme Ss, Chui Longsa, Santosh Senjam, Christso Kamkra and Manglienthang Thangjom (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 Simsim Ronglo, a third-year student of Ramjas College from Manipur, says that she has often been mistaken for someone else. "Since some of our features – like eyes and nose – look similar, even many of my friends often get confused. I have often been asked, 'How do you guys differentiate among yourselves?' I just want to say that we all are not same as people."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Christso Kamkra, a first-year student at Dyal Singh College, says that not only are they treated as outsiders, but people also think that everyone from the northeast is part of one big family. He says, "People often ask me, 'Are you from China or Japan?' They do not accept us as one of them. Our eyes and nose might look a little similar, but that does not mean that everyone from the northeast is related. We consider our friends here as part of our family, but they still think of us as outsiders."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Santosh Senjam from Manipur, a first-year student at Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, says that he's often mistaken for other guys from the northeast. "Random people come up to me on the road or in college and start talking to me, mistaking me for someone else. When I tell them that I've never met them before, they say, 'Oh, you all look the same'."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Esme Ss from Manipur, a second-year student at Ramjas, adds, "It is common for people to mistake us for others. But you cannot beat a person up because they look similar to someone else. Everyone has their own identity. We might have some similar features, but that does not mean we are interchangeable as people."
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Ngipwem Rebecca Chohwanglim from Nagaland, who is doing MPhil from JNU, says that the recent incident is an example of people's ignorance. "It shows that people do not even try to get to know us. These cases of racial discrimination have been happening in Delhi for many years. Every time this happens, we protest, the police launches helpline numbers, but incidents like this show that things are not being executed properly to give us equality," she says.
 
 
 Alila Pathak*, a second-year Hindu student, says clubbing everyone from the northeast together is racist. "People say that since we all have similar features, it doesn't matter where we are from. They think that we are from some foreign land, and are not accepted as 'one of them'."
 
 
 Upasana Palukdar from  , who is a second-year student at Ramjas, adds, "Some of our friends in college also look the same to us, but we don't say to them that they are all related. I do not even have the same facial features, but I am often told, 'Tu toh chinki hai'. They randomly point to girls from the northeast and say, 'You both are sisters, right?' People think that we are outsiders who have come to their 'country' to take up their jobs. This is one personal grudge that people here have."
 
  
  
 
  (*Name changed on request)
 
 
 
 
