Mynoo Maryel, author of 'The Be Book', (calls herself a spiritual healer and seer), shares how to combat   and anxiety, on  . She embarked on the pursuit of finding what depression is, what triggers it, and what keeps it in place, what causes it to return, when you think you have dealt with it - knowing that 90 per cent of the solution is found when you understand the problem precisely. 

 She says, “I was shown in my meditations the words depression, oppression, impression, compression, suppression and expression. I found that the key to what it is, lies in these words. It is the “pression” part, which actually implies, press on, keep the pressure on. Autosuggestion implanted in the atmosphere and propagated by repeated action of humans to keep going no matter what, keeping the pressure on. Using the pressure cooker analogy, when the pressure builds up, it’s time to turn the flame down, if you don’t then the build-up of pressure can release the valve and even destroy the cooker itself. 
 
 Impression separates you from the I AM identity of your soul and urges you to press on, keep the pressure on, moving forward getting more and more disconnected from you. Suppression on the other hand is a push to focus on the superficial, again disconnecting us from our core. Compression urges us to compare ourselves to others and keep the pressure on us to compete and compare. Oppression shuts the lid of openness and pushes to keep pressing on, being victimized by external occurrences. Depression is an urge to ignore any dips we may feel and keep pushing forward ignoring our inner call for help. It’s only when we get to expression that everything turns around. All of the previous suggestions become EX (in the past) and you press on ahead expressing who you are, how you feel what you stand for. 
 
 What occurs in your life is down to you. You choose. When you reclaim your choice the “press on” auto suggestions that have been planted in our atmosphere have no hold over you and you are emancipated, unleashed and free. 
 
 Nobody, nothing gives you anxiety or takes your anxiety away. 
 
  When there is only you there is no duality. Who are you comparing yourself to? Who is beautiful, who is ugly? You have them both. Who is kind, who was cruel? You are both, too. 
 
 When you get that there is only you, there is no comparison to anyone. Why would you compare yourself to someone else and beat yourself up or become hard on yourself? What is the point of doing this? What are you trying to prove? You just keep stepping further and further away from yourself. 
 
 Duality is a key cause of anxiety. Comparing yourself, seeking validation, wanting acknowledgment, etc., etc., all of the facets of the same old duality. There is only you, It is easy to work with you rather than trying to change someone else. As you do so and uplift your own vibrations, the world around you transforms to match it. 
 
 If you find yourself in a situation where you or someone you love is going through this condition, keep faith; hang in there, knowing that this too shall pass. It is time to start taking back control and reclaiming your own power. Start noticing signs and little occurrences that uplift you and keep noticing these, you will find more and more coming your way.
 
 Redemption song, emancipation song, songs of freedom, it is all over to you.
 
 
