AMRITSAR: Bumper   in both Taliban and government-held territories in Afghanistan leading to a spurt in heroin production, has inspired Afghani and Pakistan smugglers to explore all possible routes to smuggle it into India for its marketing in European and Commonwealth nations besides local consumption, stated officials of Indian anti-drug and security agencies.

 As per a survey by the United Nations in 2016, the area under poppy cultivation in Afghanistan had increased to 201,000 hectares from 183,000 heactres. The Helmand province of Afghanistan was the major producer of opium and its purification for conversion to heroin but now the poppy cultivation has spread to fertile lands of provinces like Badghis, Ghor, Jawzjan and Balkh.
 
 Seizure of 66kg of heroin from a textile consignment arriving from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) at Salamabad in Baramula district of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Friday has given a warning signal to security agencies.
 
 Sources in   (BSF) told that Pakistan-based   smugglers had amassed large quantities of heroin and were attempting to smuggle the narcotics into India. “The smugglers chose the barter trade route. We expect they could also push in heroin via Samjhauta Express, the goods train and through the bus service between India and Pakistan besides smuggling from anywhere on the international border.”
 
 Agreeing that there had been an increase in opium production in Afghanistan as compared to last year, zonal director of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Kaustubh Sharma said, “There has been 40% increase in output of opium, which means the smugglers will look for more routes to find a market in India, Europe and Commonwealth nations.”
 
 Sharma estimated a production of 5,000-6000 tonnes of opium in Afghanistan, which could generate 600 tonnes of heroin. He said during investigations into previous seizures of heroin, names of a few persons surfaced.
 
 Punjab state committee of Associated Chambers of Commerce of Industry chairman Suneet Kochhar said consistent smuggling attempts had diluted the very purpose of barter trade, so it should be stopped.
 
