DAKSHIN MASHALDANGA, NORTH BENGAL: For the past six weeks, teenager Bilal Sheikh and his friends have a simple routine. Every evening they cycle to Nazirhaat, a small kasbah, about two kilometres away.Sometimes they turn up unannounced at a friend's home. Occasionally they find space for themselves at a youth club. When neither of the two options is available, they simply stand outside an electronic goods store and gaze inside.

 Sheikh and company are addicted to  . Watching   on television every day is one of the non-negotiable aspects of their life. “I even stay over night at my friend's if the match becomes a nail-biter and it's too late to return home,“ says Maidul Haq, 18, who plays as an allrounder for his school team.
 
 Nearly years ago, Dakshin Mashaldanga ceased to be a Bangladeshi chitmahal (enclave) and became part of mainland India. But the absence of electricity even now rankles among all, especially cricket-crazy teenagers like Bilal and Maidul who can't watch the IPL at home.
 
 According to a landmark boundary agreement in July 2015, a total of 162 enclaves involving about 37,000 people were exchanged between India and Bangladesh. Bangladesh got 111 enclaves spread over 17,995 acres. India received 51, including Dakshin Mashaldanga, covering an area of 7,110 acres. Post-exchange of land and people, most believed that the village, which is part of Cooch Behar district's Dinhata sub-division, would soon be on the fast track to progress. All villages had been promised a development package. For most that roughly translated into availability of electricity and water, better roads and security.
 
 
 
 
 A visit to Dakshin Mashaldanga shows distinct signs of advancement.A huge road roller is in action levelling a freshly constructed road that snakes through this village of 1200 odd voters. “Soon, it will be tarred,“ says Parimal Roy, gram pan chayat member. An estimated 60% of the population are Hindus, the rest are Muslims.
 
 In the past, Dakshin shaldanga was a nervous Mashaldanga was a nervous Bangladeshi enclave surrounded by Indian villages from all sides. Enforcing law was a tedious and labyrinthine endeavour. Murder or dacoity, it would be days before cops arrived from the other side of the border.“Now we feel safe. Our days of fear are over,“ says farmer Goutam Roy.
 
 Running tap water remains a pipe dream. However, water is available courtesy hand pumps which most homes have. “But the water table is going down. You have to dig 40 feet to find water. And there are no signs of pipelines yet,“ says Azibar Miyah, a marginal farmer. Getting education isn't easy either.A primary school is two km away and a high school another three km.“There is not even a primary health centre,“ says Goutam.
 
 But it is lack of electricity that the village's main gripe. “After a hard day's work, watching cricket or a few film songs on TV can be extremely relaxing. This is what we miss,“ says Parimal.
 
 Nonetheless, hope floats. One can see a newly-installed solar panel near a corn field. And the electricity poles, standing tall in a sea of parrot green, foretell that the days of candles are numbered. “The solar panel was set up in February. But we still live in darkness,“ says Goutam.
 
 Till then the teenagers must ride to Nazirhaat for their IPL fix. “We have even tried watching cricket at home on the Hotstar app. But the internet connectivity is too weak,“ says Bilal, who always wears a   jersey under the shirt he wears.
 
 Priest Gouranga Chatterjee sums up the mood, “Enclave people are optimistic by nature. We are patient too. We waited for decades for the enclave swap. And we know electricity too will come one day.“
 
 Then he smiles and adds, “And then nobody would have to go to Nazirhaat to watch cricket.“
 
