KOCHI: As criticism mounts against Kochi   authorities for not providing adequate facilities for pick up and drop off at Metro stations, the   (KMRL) said that they have already started working on these aspects. 

 The Metro agency said that they would provide separate passages for vehicles to come and drop or pick up commuters from Metro stations. "We have started developing the areas around Metro stations, and such passages will be provided at all Metro stations," said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 Though the Metro agency said that they would put in place all required systems to avoid traffic congestion near stations, they did not rule out the possibility of traffic blocks during peak hours.
 
 "There will be personnel from the security and crowd management teams to check that vehicles do not halt at the passages or bays for a long time," added the spokesperson.
 
 Regarding relocation of bus bays KRML said discussions were taking place with the RTO, as the Metro agency cannot unilaterally take decisions on it. "It is expected a decision will be taken on relocation of bus bays within two weeks," said the spokesperson.
 
 On a question regarding pedestrian signals, zebra lines KMRL said pedestrian crossings would be provided at areas identified by the police or at the existing places. "The traffic police and road safety authority should take up the task of providing pedestrian and traffic signals. It does not fall under KMRL's preview," said the KMRL official.
 
 Meanwhile, in a meeting held between KMRL, DMRC, Kalamasserry municipal officials and police on Tuesday it has been decided to stop activities at   till a decision has been taken to relay the road leading to the yard. In the meeting it has been decided to tile the pathway from Metro stations to bus bays. 
 
 The streetlights will become operational within 30 days, traffic signals will be installed within 20 days and all construction materials dumped on the road will be removed within 20 days. Pipelines supplying water will be restored, and measures will be taken to prevent water logging. 
 
 A joint committee will help the Metro route from Kalamasserry to Edappally toll on Wednesday.
 
