PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Commuters on the busy Pune-Mumbai highway may have to endure traffic snarls on   over the Mula for some more time as construction of two bridges parrallel to it has hit the   hurdle in Bopodi.

 The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has embarked on the bridge project along the Pune side of the highway from both ends — one near College of Military Engineering (CME) in Dapodi and the other in Bopodi. 
 
 The civic body has been able to start construction of the bridge on Mumbai side of the highway from one end in Dapodi. It, however, cannot start work in Bopodi until the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) shifts the slum-dwellers for the construction of the approach road to the new bridge. This cannot be done till monsoon ends. 
 
 Vijay Bhojane, spokesperson of the BRTS cell, said the PCMC has completed 35% construction of the bridge project in the last one year. The work order to the contractor was issued on May 23, 2016. The construction work has to complete by May 23, 2018.
 
 “Construction work will remain mostly closed in the rainy season until September end. If the PMC speeds up land acquisition in Bopodi for the parallel bridge on the Mumbai side of the highway and gives land possession by the end of rainy season, the contractor can then start constructing the approach road from Bopodi side in October. Any delay in land acquisition will mean delay in the construction of the bridge,” he said.
 
 Sachin Kale, a resident of Pimpri, recalled how an ambulance carrying his ailing grandfather from Phugewadi to Khadki struggled to reach the hospital through a long morning snarl.
 
 Anand Kadam, a resident of Chinchwad, told TOI, “I can cover the 6km distance from Chinchwad to Phugewadi in 15-20 minutes flat using the concrete lanes. But during morning hours, I need 15-20 minutes to cover the 2km distance from Phugewadi to Bopodi chowk because of the narrow Harris bridge. The PCMC must complete the two new bridges at the earliest.”
 
 Anagha Raut, a daily commuter from Pimpri, she has to start early from home for her office in Yerawada because of the traffic snarl from Phugewadi to Bopodi. “The parallel bridges will ease my commute,” she said.
 
