GURUGRAM: The police has a new problem in their hands. Following the arrest of slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli’s brother and four of his sharpshooters over the past week, most of the city’s malcontents are now behind bars, what with members of rival   already lodged there. And thus, the   which threatened to spill on city roads is now brewing in  .

  The jail, which has long been the safe escape for Gujjar, has now turned into a volatile battleground, with Gadoli’s brothers and some of his henchmen also lodged there. According to police, around 10 members each of the rival gangs are lodged in Bhondsi jail at present. Prime among them is gangster turned MCG councillor Gujjar, who was arrested for arranging property dealer Raju Sethi’s murder on contract by his shooters, along with four gang members, including two shooters and an arms dealer. Sethi was killed on the night of November 10, 2015, at a petrol pump in Sector 5. Gujjar was arrested on December 4, 2015, and has been lodged in Bhondsi since then. 
 
 In November 9, 2016, Delhi crime branch arrested Gadoli’s brother Kuldeep and sent him over to Bhondsi. Another of Gadoli’s brothers, Brahm Prakash alias Master, who is rumoured to have been conspiring to eliminate Gujjar for long, is the latest addition to the rogue’s gallery. He was caught on January 18, 2017, and has been placed in Gujjar’s proximity. Gurgaon police are soon expected to bring over to Bhondsi, four of Gadoli’s shooters — who were arrested in Rohtak two days before Master’s capture — from Rohtak jail on transit remand for questioning. Since capture, they have revealed their involvement in the murder of Gujjar’s brother, liquor businessmen Manish alias Pappu, on October 17, 2016, and also expressed their desire to eliminate Gujjar.
 
 “Ever since Gadoli was eliminated, members of his gang have been dying to avenge his death by killing Gujjar. The four shooters we arrested in Rohtak confessed they wanted to kill Gujjar at his daughter’s wedding, but having failed, will now want to finish him in jail,” said a senior police officer of Gurgaon crime branch.
 
 “There is no denying the sensitivity and volatility of the situation, as members of two bloodthirsty rival gangs are lodged together. We’ve put jail authorities on alert and asked them to ensure no untoward incident or brawl occurs,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI.
 
 It may be noted that Bhondsi has been home to brawls and feuds in the past, and if sources are to be believed, the situation is primed for an encore. “I can’t divulge the details of steps we’ve taken, but yes, we’re well aware of the situation and are taking all caution to ensure nothing happens. We’ve stepped up security and are vigilant,” said Harender Kumar, superintendent of Bhondsi jail.
 
  was eliminated in a ‘fake’ encounter by Gurgaon police in a Mumbai hotel on February 7, 2016. The Gadoli gang accused police of being hand-in-glove with Gujjar, and killing Gadoli at his behest, and have been looking to kill Gujjar ever since. Sensing trouble, Gujjar has not left Bhondsi jail and has been appearing for his court hearings via video conferencing.
 
