THANE: Many people dream of having a garden in the backyard of their homes, but have to let go of their desires due to space constraints. Living in high rises people hardly have any space to make a garden and maintain them. However, many denizens have found a way and have built miniature gardens and glass terrariums within the four corners of their home. 

 Be it in an empty glass pickle container or jam jars or even an unused fish bowls and tanks, a growing number of lake-city residents have begun converting the empty glass vessels in their home into intricate miniature gardens and glass terrariums.
 
 Ridhima Gaikwad (35), one such Thaneite who has created a number of these beautiful glass bowl garden and kept it around her home, said, “I grew up in a home that had a massive front-yard complete with a variety of plants and I loved taking care of them. As it is impossible to have the same here in the city, I searched the web for a way to liven up my home and allow me to grow plants. I found the do-it-yourself concept of terrariums and immediately set up four of them in my home.”
 
 “These miniature gardens also help in purifying the air in my home to a great extent,” Gaikwad added.
 
 As these gardens need nothing more than a little water and a little bit of ambient light to grow, their popularity has been on the rise even in the hectic schedules of the working population. 
 
 “I love gardening but don’t have time for it due to my hectic work schedule. I went for a workshop where they showed us how to make these gardens and was surprised at how easy it was. I have made a   in my unused fish tank. After work, I spend some a couple of minutes for watering the plants and clipping off the dead leaves. It has become a stress buster for me,” said Janice D’Silva, a 28-year-old working professional from Hiranandani Estate.
 
 Over the past few months, an increasing number of citizens who seem to be interested in creating these terrariums have been approaching NGOs and social enterprises that conduct such workshops in and around the city.
 
 Smita Shirodkar (33), founder of Earthoholics which is one such enterprise, said, “Living in the busy city, many people suffer from a nature deficit and believe creating these miniature gardens in a wonderful way to fill that void. Many others come because they want to learn this as a hobby and many others create terrariums because it’s easy. Whatever the reason maybe, their numbers have increased recently.”
 
 “For an open terrarium, all you need to do is fill a clean glass bowl or jar with a few pebbles, some coal, moss, red soil, a little manure and plant miniature shade loving plants like Syngonium, mini Arelia, etc. To make it pretty, you can replicate a real garden by making a pebbled pathway and placing small toys like a bench, chair, etc. All these plants need is some ambient light and a little water every day, and they will survive,” Shirodkar explained.
 
 
