BENGALURU: While   believe that   play an important role in   and   dream of producing  , the situation on the ground is rather dismal.

 As per the latest government data, only five of the 778 elementary and secondary government schools in the Bengaluru educational division have playgrounds.Primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait shared it in the legislative council on March 24 to a question raised by Ganesh Karnik (BJP).
 
 When TOI checked with officials of the Department of Public Instruction (DPI), they said the ground reality may not be so bad, after all.“The data provided by our staff may have been erroneous. There are definitely more playgrounds in government schools of Bengaluru,“ said an official who spoke on condition of anonymity. It's currently taking another look at the data.
 
 According to the state's sports policy, at least 1 acre for a primary school and 2.5 acres for an upper primary school should be available for use as playgrounds. If playgrounds are not available, the Karnataka Knowledge Commission said schools should allocate space for common playfields and playgrounds within 2kms.
 
 Irrespective of the correct number, the fact remains that many government schools do not have playgrounds. In most such schools, students don't engage in outdoor games or physical training due to lack of playgrounds.
 
 The unwritten rule, according to official sources, is that schools without playgrounds must focus on indoor games and theoretical aspects of sports. “The physical education subject, compulsory in schools, is 50 per cent theory and 50 per cent physical activity. In the indoor games category, most schools without playground teach yoga and simple exercises for healthy living,'' said an official.
 
 Government officials said the biggest hindrance is increasing cost of land.“With high land rates, we cannot even consider purchasing property for government schools. We have to make do with what's available,“ said the DPI official. Bangalore University director for sports Lingaraju said the lack of foresight in the government has led to serious concerns about generating sports talent. “The formative years for any sportsperson are from middle school till the PU course.With lack of playgrounds, it'll definitely affect the future of sports development in Bengaluru and Karnataka,“ he said.
 
 Lingaraju said with many schools and colleges not having playgrounds, schools flock to Central College for their sports meets.
 
 
 
 
 It's been fairly well established that while books and academics are important for growing children, it's extra-curricular activities and sports that ensure they are well rounded. Sadly, not all government schools have the required space for their students to play. While it may be too late to fix this problem in older schools, the least the government can do is to make arrangements for these kids to access a common area.While we weep about the lack of sports medals at the highest level, this can be fixed only if we provide the required sports infrastructure for all children.
 
