NASHIK:   and staffers of the   have demanded better   to prevent outsiders and the kin of patients from manhandling them.

 The demand of the hospital   comes in the wake of the recent incident at the Dhule-based Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College & Hospital where a resident doctor,  , was severely thrashed by the kin of an accident victim.
 
 The doctor was accused of not attending to the victim, who succumbed to his injuries. According to the staff of Nashik civil hospital that has over 500 beds, there have been incidents in the past where kin of patients have misbehaved with doctors and staff, claiming that the treatment rendered was not up to the mark.
 
 They also recalled an incident in March last year when a 30-year-old alcoholic admitted to the hospital for treatment set three mattresses on fire and burnt important registers and other documents of the ward where he was admitted.
 
 As the staff of the ward looked helplessly, the patient stabbed himself with a piece of glass by breaking a windowpane of the hospital and sustained serious injuries. According to the matron of the hospital, Malini Deshmukh, there is a need for security for hospital staff and doctors.
 
 “Currently, there are 18 security personnel at the hospital and they work in three shifts. But in view of violent incidents in the past, we have requested the civil surgeon to increase the security strength as soon as possible. We do not want any kind of the incident taking place in our hospital,” she added.
 
 Although there is a police post outside the civil hospital, the police personnel are busy registering cases of accidental deaths and other paper work in matters related to unnatural deaths. “They hardly have time to oversee the security at the hospital,” said a hospital official.
 
 Senior officials of civil hospital said currently as per government norms, hospital has a sanctioned strength of 16 security guards. Nonetheless, given the incidents of attacks on the hospital and the staff, there are 18 security personnel.
 
  Civil surgeon Dr Suresh Jagdale held a meeting with the security personnel after he received a memorandum from the hospital staff and instructed them to maintain strict vigil at the hospital.
 
 “We have sufficient number of security personnel in the hospital. I have told the security personnel to be on constant vigil to ensure that the doctors and the hospital staff are not targeted by the kin of the patients,” Jagdale added. 
 
