VISAKHAPATNAM: Mercury levels are gradually rising across the state with maximum temperatures already going above normal in most places.

 As per official calculations by the India Meteorological Department ( ), the   season begins from March 1, but the people of Andhra Pradesh, especially Rayalaseema are already feeling the heat due to the prevalence of warmer   conditions and high   levels during both night and day.
 
 Weathermen from IMD attributed the rising temperature levels to various reasons including global warming and the entry of westerly winds towards the state as well as termination of northerly winds. This apart, solar inclination towards the equator has also been considered as one of the reasons behind the rising temperature levels in AP.
 
 Speaking to TOI, IMD director (forecast) K Nagaratham said the maximum temperature touched 40 degrees Celsius on Friday at Kurnool against its normal 37 degrees Celsius. Most of the places recorded maximum temperature levels at least 1-4 degrees above normal. Visakhapatnam Airport registered a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius against its normal of 32 degrees Celsius, she said, adding that the trend of rising temperature levels from February itself began in 2010.
 
 According to IMD statistics, Nandigama registered a maximum temperature of 38 degrees Celsius against the normal 35 degrees Celsius, Vijayawada recorded 37 degrees Celsius against the normal 34 degrees Celsius, Anantapur recorded 39 degrees Celsius against the normal 36 degrees Celsius, and Kakinada recorded 33 degree Celsius against the mornal 32 degrees Celsius on Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has instructed the concerned officials including collectors and municipal commissioners besides the heads of medical and health department to take requisite measures for prevention of heatstrokes on a priority basis.
 
 Some NGOs have also started supplying drinking water at water kiosks set up at various junctions and pilgrim spots to help people beat the heat.
 
 Vijinigiri Bala Bhanumurthy, coordinator of smart ward number 72, said, “We decided to supply water to the needy by transporting them in bikes. We are a group of five members who will distribute water and other requisite materials to heatstroke victims from Saturday onwards.”
 
 
