Noida: The enforcement directorate (ED) has registered a fresh case against Anubhav Mittal, director of Ablaze Info Solutions Pvt Ltd, under sections of Provision of Money Laundering Act for alleged misuse of ISO certification in Lucknow.

 The case was registered against socialtrade.biz mastermind Mittal and his associates on the basis of new facts arising out of the investigation. He is alleged to have misused forged/expired ISO Certificates for portraying the business of his company as genuine before the public as well as government agencies. 
 
 On Monday, the Special Investigation Team (SIT), investigating the matter, had filed a 37,000 page charge-sheet against Anubhav Mittal and his five accomplices – Mittal’s wife and co-director Ayushi Agarwal, his father and former director Sunil Mittal, CEO Shridhar Prasad, technical head Mahesh Dayal and a private bank manager Atul Mishra.
 
 The accused have been charged for cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust, and criminal conspiracy. The five persons including Mittal have been arrested and they are in judicial custody. Ayushi Mittal has got a stay on her arrest from High Court.
 
 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP Noida-STF, said that the huge charge-sheet document includes enclosures, bank statements, CDs, etc. The officials are investigating the matter and may file a supplementary charge-sheet against some more officials of the company.
 
 Enforcement Directorate official said that they have moved an application is court for taking remand of Anubhav Mittal for his custodial interrogation in the light of the new facts that have emerged during the investigation. The ED will further investigate the matter in respect of bank accounts, companies and agents that have come to notice.
 
 “Team of ED officers is being sent to Luksar Jail, Greater Noida for recording the statement of Sunil Mittal, father of Anubhav Mittal,” said ED in a statement. Properties worth Rs 599.28 crores of Ablaze Info Solutions Pvt Ltd have already been attached by the Enforcement Directorate.
 
 
