NAGPUR: Vidarbha is infamous for farmers’ suicides, particularly districts like Yavatmal in the western part where a record number of   have ended lives due to continuous crop failure and mounting debts. Eastern Vidarbha which falls under   is not behind as over 3,600 farmers have committed suicides, as per the reply to an RTI query. These suicides took place during a period spanning 17-and-a-half years.

 Since January this year, 126 farmers from western Vidarbha have ended lives — 32 deaths in March and 17 last month. The spate of suicides continued in eastern part as well even after the massive loan waiver announced by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The government awarded Rs1 lakh compensation to family of every deceased farmer.
 
 The reply submitted by divisional commissioner office in Nagpur to a query by senior activist Abhay Kolarkar disclosed that Wardha district with nearly 1,500 suicides leads the chart among six districts in the division. 
 
 On the other hand, backward and Naxalite hit district like Gadchiroli witnessed least number of suicides at 74 in 17-and-a-half years. 
 
 In Nagpur district, the hometown of CM, about 680 suicides were reported — 23 deaths took place in last six months. Only 254 families received compensation while claims of 413 were rejected. 
 
 The reply further revealed that hardly half of the families of 3,604 farmers who committed suicides were found eligible for receiving compensation while 1,740 were declared ineligible and 57 cases are still pending. 
 
 Collectively, the state government offered a compensation of Rs17.80 crore, while claims of many of them were rejected for varied reasons.
 
  chairman Kishore Tiwari squarely blamed the government for its wrong policies that led to unabated suicides in Vidarbha. Erratic rainfall and crops failure over the years compounded the woes of farmers. 
 
 “The downtrend started in 2006 when BT Cotton was introduced. It was used extensively by farmers from Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur. It led to massive economic losses, from which they never came up. Subsequently, mounting debts and distress took their toll,” said Tiwari.
 
 Tiwari added that the farmers used to cultivate paddy as a minor crop and cotton as major crop. Moreover, they worked in farms in spare time. “Multinational companies showed them big drams about crops like BT cotton and ruined their lives completely. The entire cotton rich belt failed to get good yield due to usage of such seeds provided by the MNCs. Other factors like rising inflation, school fees and health care charges also added to their woes,” he told TOI.
 
