LUCKNOW:   will set up   dedicated to   Bhaurao Devras and   under departments of commerce and social work, respectively. The   chairs in universities across the state will offer courses on the ideology of the two leaders. Provision of Rs 9 crore has been made in state Budget 2017 for   in the name of Upadhyay to be set up in universities across the state, while Rs 2 crore has been earmarked for the Devras chair.

 A multi-disciplinary research, postgraduate degree, diploma and certificate course will be offered under the Devras chair, while the chair in the name of Upadhyay will conduct research based on his thoughts, work and contribution in a certificate course.
 
 “The ‘Bhaurao Devras Peeth’ will be dedicated to advanced studies and research in diverse disciplines. The centre will also offer a PG course, a PG diploma and a certificate course in the study of ideology of Bhaurao Devras,” said research chair director Somesh Kumar Shukla. He said the objective of the research chair will be to implement ideology of Devras through formation of educational, health and culture centres for the uplift of socially and economically downtrodden, leading to their 360-degree development.
 
 The research chair in the name of Upadhyay will make students and general public aware of his contribution to the society and a library will be set up to facilitate research.
 
 The framework of proposal for setting up the research Deen Dayal chair has been made by associate professor Vijay Karan of the Vidyant PG College along with the university’s social work department. Karan has been awarded by the government for best education policy paper on ‘Deendayal Upadhyay Ka Shaikshik Chintan’ (educational ideology of Deendayal Upadhyay).
 
 “A certificate course, field surveys and intensive research on education tools used by Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay will be provided by the centre. Students will be made aware of his ‘zero association’ in which he helped weak students,” said Karan.
 
 LU registrar and social work professor Raj Kumar Singh said, “The research chair will focus on the life and work of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay and work toward spreading awareness about his contribution.”
 
 
