Bengaluru: With only a day (July 30) left for filing objections, Bengalureans on Saturday submitted 3,000 letters in two hours against the new draft  . The Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) helped citizens and members of 18 resident welfare associations (RWAs) gather at a mass objection-filing camp at MS Building . A total of 10,000 objections have been filed. 

 Citizen activists and RWA members have been urging the state government not to notify the new rules whose draft was issued on July 1. The citizens’ campaign, #HosaZoningBeda, gathered momentum in the past few weeks. Citizens are concerned about the provision to allow commercial and even industrial setups in residential areas where road width is 30 feet and less. This will increase commercialization of residential neighbourhoods, increase sound and air pollution and also threaten safety of the elderly and children, they argue.
 
 While 1,500 objections were filed by Indiranagar residents, 1,428 were submitted by Malleswaram residents. Richmond and Langford Town CWA submitted 560 letters and hundreds of signatures were filed from Hennur, RBI Layout, Banashankari, Cox Town, Kumara Park, Shastri Layout and Vijaynagar. Nithya Reddy from Richmond and Langford Town CWA said: “We are already under stress due to commercialization. If the new zoning regulations become a reality, life in residential areas too will be miserable.”
 
  Srinivas Allavilli, member of CfB, said: “The officials have decided to go through each letter and hold public consultations in various areas.”
 
 Sneha Nandihal, resident of Indiranagar, said they are unable to understand the reason behind these rules. “It invalidates all the work being done for the Bengaluru master plan and is in violation of the high court orders,” she said.
 
 Yogeesh Prabhuswamy from Vijaynagar, said: “My house is close to the Metro station and the service road is full of eateries, pharmacies and clinics. Vehicles are parked in front of my house as there’s no space at the station. It is not safe for my mother to go to the neighbourhood. These are simple examples of a failed urban planning. Vijaynagar is not Koramanagala and a blanket zoning regulation will backfire because the city is not as such planned. Its ill-effects will slowly creep into our houses if not opposed now.”
 
 Ashish Patel from Koramangala III Block said: “I hope the citizen movement will prompt the government to think twice before implementing the regulations. People have gone out of their way to garner support in the past couple of weeks.”
 
 CfB members will meet Bengaluru incharge minister K J George and Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao on Monday to discuss the issue. 
 
 Civic evangelist V Ravichandar said, “The government must figure out and put in public domain, what has changed vis a vis the existing building by-laws. Along with these draft notifications, it should send out a detailed note (through media) and lay out why this is being done and what are its key features. ​That would show them as being more transparent and having good intentions, else one fears the worst, given the trust deficit in the government machinery.”
 
 
