They've probably taken a leaf out of Bollywood's Dhoom series. They like speed and flashy bikes and think it's cool to steal the mean machines. What they haven't realised is that there is a world of difference between the reel and real life.And that's exactly what happened recently when the city police nabbed three youths and booked them for stealing bikes. Two of them turned out to be engineering college students who admitted to the crime saying that they did it on an impulse to “impress girls and have some fun“. A similar case was reported a few months ago where two students were caught with expensive bikes. According to city police, there has been an increase in the number of cases being registered against students in the city .

 
 Mahendra Jadhav, assistant police inspector at Faraskhana police station informed that in November, two students were caught with 12 two students were caught wit bikes. Jadhav said, “When we inquired about their motive, they told us that they wanted to flaunt them and im press the girls. There was no remorse.“ Last month, a Std XII student was arrested while he was trying to sell two stolen bikes online. “Once these youngsters use the stolen bikes, they abandon them in the city,“ a senior officer added.
 
 PR Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) said the situation is grave and is a cause of concern. “Students who drop out of college are also seen getting involved in vehicle thefts. involved in vehicle thefts.This is getting serious because most of them admit that they do it because they are passionate about bikes and don't even realise it is a crime,“ Patil added.
 
 
 Psychiatrists feel that the need to feel macho and attract attention compels youngsters to take such a drastic step. “Most of the students who are involved in such crimes, feel the need to draw attention.This is because they want to be someone they are not,“ said psychiatrist Dr Vasudeo Paralikar.He further added that in some cases youngsters may want to experience something they've never done before and steal just for the thrill of it, without realising that it is a crime.
 
  
  
 Sunil Pawar, senior inspector, Cyber Crime, Pune police said that the number of students involved in Cyber Crime is quite high. Most of the complaints involve hacking, fake accounts and morphing of images and posting them on social media. “Usually, one sided affairs and break-ups are reasons for such crimes,“ he said. In October, the Cyber Crime Cell of Pune police arrested a 22-year-old student for defaming actress Neha Hinge on social media.
 
 
 According to Paralikar, the younger generation should have at least one mature friend or family member who they can confide in. “It is important for family members to keep a tab on where their child is going and who their friends are. One should closely monitor the social media pages of students, when they feel there is a change in their personality, to understand what they are going through.“
 
 Family plays an important role in such cases. “Peer pressure and the upbringing reflect in the personality and development of a youth. 
 
 
 
  We have started an awareness drive in colleges, where we share information and discuss about crime, Cyber Crime, violence against women, traffic and other related issues so that young people understand the repercussions of taking law in their hands.”
 
 
  
  
