HYDERABAD: In one of the biggest crackdowns on child labour, the Rachakonda police rescued 411 children, including 35 under the age of six, from brick kilns in 24 hours.

 So far, about 7,000 children have been rescued from brick kilns, bangle-making units and other hazardous occupations in the city and surrounding districts. Last year, 1,397 children were rescued as part of ' '. The raids on Tuesday and Wednesday, when the police swooped down on brick kilns in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, were part of the same operation.
 
 Most of the rescued children had been trafficked or forced to migrate from tribal communities in West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, and made to work under dangerous conditions, often without payment.Only about 10% of the workers in brick kilns across   and Andhra Pradesh are Telugus.
 
 “The middlemen supplying child labour to the brick industry pay their families in advance. Several of them migrate to Telangana on a seasonal basis between December and June. But often, after they migrate, they are forced to work with no option to quit,“ child rights activist   explained. These children face sexual abuse as well, she said.
 
 As of now, the main cause for concern is rehabilitation of the rescued children, which is a tough task, considering the state has only five juvenile homes. Deputy commissioner of police Yadagiri, who led the rescue operation at 17 brick kilns on Wednesday , said a decision on the rehabilitation of the rescued children would be taken after officials from Odisha arrive.
 
 “For several years, we have been rescuing children and enrolling them in schools," said  , an activist from the NGO Child Rights and You (CRY). Several activists say how the child labour menace has only grown over the years due to the negligence of the authorities. “For 20 years, the government has allotted only around 3% for children's education and 0.03% for child protection in the budget. Only if they allot more will the rehabilitation scenario change," activist   said.
 
 The police have registered a case after the latest raids and are investigating the matter. They have identified Jawaharnagar, Bhavani Nagar, Chandrayangutta, Kanchanbagh, Kalapathar and Rein Bazaar in the Old City as child labour dens.
 
 Ujwal Bommakanti I TNN
 
