VISAKHAPATNAM: Even before the consumers could digest the tomato price shocker and come to grips with the skyrocketing price of the daily vegetable, comes another shocker in the form of  , another daily vegetale, the rates of which have started soaring in the last 4-5 days in the port city.

 A kilo onion now costs Rs 22. The price was hovering around Rs 10 a week ago. In fact, the price started increasing in the last five days. It touched Rs 19 per kg in the wholesale market and crossed Rs 22 in the retail market. Market analysts say the prices will hit Rs 25-27 by this weekend.
 
 “Onion that was sold for Rs 9-12 per kg in the wholesale market five days ago saw a steep rise on Sunday. Traders attribute this sudden rise in price to lack of supply from other states, especially  ,” retail vendor Ali shah told TOI.
 
 Traders in Vizag depend on   or Maharashtra for supplies. As Kurnool farmers cultivate the crop from August till November, the yield is supposed to arrive either in November-end or December. The wholesale market of   in the city imports 10 lorries every day of 40 tonnes each. Around 400 tonnes of onions are imported from Maharashtra this season alone and another 10 loads every week by   traders, sources said. 
 
 With the farmers in Maharashtra staging protests demanding the government for loan waiver, traders started stocking up huge quantities of onions which led to shortfall in supplies. 
 
 A trader at   said: “We don’t have any proper facility to store onions in huge quantity. The government should focus on this urgently.”
 
 On condition of anonymity, one of the farmers in MVP Raitu Bazaar who has been bringing onions from the wholesale market, said that they have been getting third grade onions and selling it for Rs 12 now. The entire market has been getting 20 bags. He says there will not be any respite for the prices till the end of November as the yield of various crops would come in next two to three months and Karthika masam would also see the prices soar.
 
 Thankfully, in a respite to consumers, tomato prices which touched Rs 100 in the retail markets due to insufficient yield till July 26, have now come down to Rs. 55. 
 
 Not only onions, the prices of brinjal, cucumber, drumsticks, capsicum, beans, and others have also gone up in five days. One of the wholesale vendors in the Jnanapuram market K Nayudu attributes this to lack of yield.
 
 
