PANAJI: The   ( ) on February 3 challenged the Goa children’s court order acquitting two accused in the mysterious death of British teenager   Keeling on Anjuna beach in February 2011. 

 On September 23, 2016, the children’s court had acquitted Samson D’Souza and Placido Carvalho, who were charged with culpable homicide not amounting to  .
 
 The CBI, in its petition, stated that on perusal of the judgement, the special judge hadn’t applied her judicial mind both on points of law and on facts of the case. The CBI also said that the judge had wrongly came to the conclusion that there was a delay in recording of statements of witnesses. 
 
 The CBI said that if the statements of witnesses recorded by Goa police and the CBI were perused and compared with their deposition in court, their guilt would be revealed. Assistant solicitor general Dattaprasad Lawande filed the petition.
 
 On September 30, Keeling’s mother, Fiona Mackeown, had petitioned Prime Minister  , seeking his intervention to ensure that the people responsible for her daughter's death are identified and prosecuted, including those “who destroyed the evidence related to the crime” and those who “shielded the criminals by providing them ample time to destroy the evidence related to the crime”.
 
 In March 2010, charges were framed against the two accused. The CBI had filed chargesheets against D’Souza and Carvalho under Sections 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 354 (assault or use of criminal force on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 328 (administrating stupefying drug with an intent to cause hurt) of the IPC.
 
 After the Goa police faced a barrage of criticism for their failure to properly investigate the case involving alleged administration of drug to the deceased, molestation and consequent death, the government had handed it over to the CBI. The case had drawn the attention of the international media due to the Mackeown’s outburst against the government, as well as the safety of the tourists in Goa. 
 
 
