CHENNAI: New chief minister   must act as per the Constitution in stead of looking for advice or support from the   where AIADMK   V K Sasikala is lodged, said DMK working president M K Stalin.

 “Like the previous nonperforming AIADMK government, I also foresee the present government under Palaniswami to be a government looking for orders from Bengaluru prison,“ said Stalin.
 
 The DMK working president welcomed the decision to invite Palaniswami to form the government but said the time given to prove a majority is too long and could lead to horse-trading. “I am not able to understand why the governor has given 15 days for Palaniswami to prove majority on the floor of the assembly. This would lead to horsetrading. It has already begun between the Panneerselvam camp and Sasikala faction,“ said Stalin. The governor must keep a close watch during the interim period to prevent horse-trading and safeguard democracy, Stalin said.
 
 Stalin said he could not attend the swearing-in ceremony of Palaniswami because of prior commitments. “I was travelling to Salem when my assistant received a call about the swearing-in. I could not c a n c e l my e a rl i e r p ro gramme,“ he said.
 
 Stalin said the DMK has always backed the formation of a stable government in the state. The new government must devote its attention on various important issues confronting Tamil Nadu, he said.“There are many pressing issues which need the immediate attention of the government. But I wonder whether this government will be able to solve the problems faced by people,“ said Stalin.
 
 EVKS slams Palaniswami
 
 Former TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan slammed Edapadi K Palaniswami alleging that Palaniswami was facing a slew of corruption charges.“I have already spoken about the corruption charges against him. He shouldn't be made chief minister,“ he told reporters.Elangovan said President's rule should be imposed in the state. “Considering the uncertain political situation in the state, the governor should take initiatives to conduct fresh elections,“ he said. Elangovan had launched a scathing attack on Edappadi much before he came to limelight as Sasikala's favoured man.
 
