VISAKHAPATNAM: Displaying great innovation skills,   in Visakhapatnam have taken to designing and manufacturing   using waste material collected from the sandy coast.

 The material includes plastic water bottles thrown by visitors, unused thermocol and other waste that keeps the boat buoyant in the sea.
 
 The children use these boats for surfing, fishing and anchoring mechanised boats. According to sources, many children are earning between Rs 5,000 and Rs 50,000 a month by catching the fish on their own.
 
 Interacting with TOI, 14-year-old V Venkatesh from   said he made the mini-boat using waste water bottles, thermocol, plastic rice gunny bags and waste from nets. 
 
 “I first shaped the boat with the gunny bags. Then, I filled it up with the waste. I took nearly a week to make the boat with an investment of Rs 200. Riding this boat, I can venture into the sea up to 10 kms from the coast. I also do surfing and hook-line fishing with the help of the boat,” Venkatesh said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Visakhapatnam District Fishermen Youth Welfare Association executive secretary Arjilli Das said the idea of making boats with waste materials was a novel one thought out by the children themselves. 
 
 “Nearly 250 such boats are being operated now in Vizag alone. A fisherfolk youth   from Pudimadaka earned Rs 40,000 in a week by catching snapper and sheer fish by travelling nearly 15 kms away from the coast on the boat. The cost of making the boat is very cheap. It costs between Rs 200 and Rs 5,000, whereas a fibre boat takes minimum Rs 2 lakh to be built,” Das said.
 
 Das said the fisherfolk collect the plastic waste themselves. “This idea is not only providing the fisherfolk with means to live, but also cleaning the beach of plastic waste, particularly water bottles and thermocol. If the government supports them in a requisite manner, this will become a source of income and livelihood for many fisherfolk youth,” Das said.
 
 These type of boats are mostly seen in areas like Pudimadaka, Peda Jalaripeta, Gangavaram and Rushikonda beaches. Some were also spotted at Lawson’s   recently.
 
  I first shaped the boat with gunny bags. Then, I filled it up with the waste. I took a week to make the boat with an investment of Rs 200. I can venture into the sea up to 10 kms from the coast. I do surfing and hook-line fishing with the boat
 
