BHOPAL: The farmers strike in the state and onion glut resulting in rotten bulbs in the districts has taken away smiles from the face of children. Chief minister’s announcement for door-to-door collection of toys for poor kids could not take off after the famers’ protest and killings in Mandsaur.

 The agitation was followed by a problem of plenty with bumper yield of onions, which forced government to announce its procurement at Rs 8 per kg. Sources close to the CM said atmosphere was not favourable in state for going ahead with the move. Besides, the administration was also busy over sapling plantation drive on July 2 that is aimed to create a world record.
 
 Taking the concept of 'Deewar-e-Mehrbani' or Neki ki Deewar' (wall of kindness), a step further, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced to go door-to-door and to ask for used clothes and toys for the poor kids. Not only CM, the ministers were also supposed to visit cities which they are in-charge of, and collect clothes and toys from the houses.
 
 CM expressed the willingness to do so two months ago after which the officials swung into action. “It was aimed to motivate people to donate, but the ‘more serious’ issues that cropped up after the announcement did not give time to plan the project”, said a senior official.
 
 However, to compensate it, the state’s happiness department has now written letters to all district collectors to motivate people for donating used toys at the Anand Sthals- the name given by state government to Neki ki Deewar in MP.
 
 There are 172   across 51 districts of the state. In Bhopal, there are six Anand Sthals including those at TT Nagar Stadium, Concept English Medium School TT Nagar, Swarna Jayanti Park on Kolar Road, near Daulat Ram Dharmshala in Bairagarh, Govindpura industrial association building and   swimming pool in Koh-e-Fiza.
 
 Principal secretary to CM, SK Mishra said the programme is in the pipeline. CM had expressed willingness to take the project forward and things would be finalised soon.
 
 Wall of kindness was a citizen-driven initiative that was first started in Mashhad, a north-eastern city of Iran with installation of few hooks and hangers on a wall called 'Deewar-e-Mehrbani' with words 'If you don't need it, leave it. If you need it, take it,' written next to it. The initiative soon became a viral movement and spread like wildfire across the globe with people painting walls and joining this humanitarian initiative. 
 
