LUCKNOW: The six-day-long strike of   continued on Thursday even after an association of the traders met chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who assured them that the government was not acting against anyone on the basis of caste, creed or religion. “The government was determined to implement Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal guidelines,” the CM told the office-bearers of  . A 21-member delegation of the national body of meat sellers met the CM at his official 5 Kalidas Marg residence on Thursday evening. 

 After the meeting, though All India Jamiat-ul-Quresh’s president Sirajuddin Qureshi appealed to meat sellers to call off their strike, state vice-president of the association, Haji Shaqeel Qureshi, said that licences of almost all the meat shops would expire on March 31. “Hence, the meat sellers would only be able to open their shops after their licences are renewed,” he added. Another vice-president of the association, Chaudhary Aaley Umar Qureshi said: “Though we will receive our licences as the CM has promised us, but we will continue to down our shutters ‘in honour of Navratri’.
 
 Shaqeel Qureshi told TOI the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere and the CM assured the delegation that no one with a proper licence would be harassed. He said that the association was expecting that the state government would issue clear directives for expediting the renewal of licences. 
 
 According to Qureshi, several municipalities stopped renewing the licences of meat sellers since 2013, while others’ licences will expire on March 31. Since the state government had initiated a crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses, meat sellers would be able to open their shops only after their licences are renewed, Qureshi said. 
 
 “The CM assured the delegation that the state government was not working with any prejudice,” health minister Siddharth Nath Singh, who also took part in the meeting, said, adding that delegation was also of the view that illegal meat shops should not be allowed to open. 
 
 Singh also emphasised that the government would also look into action taken by the officials against valid meat sellers. The shops which have valid licence will open, the minister later told media persons outside the CM’s official residence. Qureshi on the other had said that the state government would have to issue directives to officials to expedite licence renewal of the shops. “The body is hoping that some decision might be taken at the government end by tomorrow (Friday),” Qureshi concluded. 
 
