HYDERABAD: If justice crawls in the state, it's just not about prolonged litigation, the rot runs deep in the policing system. More than often, criminal cases lie locked in record rooms with no chargesheet filed within the stipulated 60 days, some are filed even two decades later. Skeletons are tumbling out after 15 long years with   (CCS) detectives filing a chargesheet in a banking fraud case.It's not a one-off pending case.There are more than 200 cases in which chargesheets are pending for a decade and police brass are finally dusting files.

 Recently , CCS police filed a chargesheet in a sensational case of `40 lakh fixed deposit (FD) fraud which took place in   ( ) in 2002. The accused in this case were bank employees, who created fake FD bonds in the name of their kin, instead of issuing genuine customers, from whom they collected `40 lakh.
 
 Bank authorities filed a criminal case, but due to `inaction' on the part of successive investigators and supervising officers, the case file gathered dust in the record room while the accused made merry . There are several neglected cases in CCS, which are now being resurrected by police and investigation reports are being filed in respective local courts.
 
 In a case registered in 2012, both the complainant and her son died by the time the police filed their chargesheet in a white-collar offence.
 
 It was only after a review on pendancy in filing chargesheets a few months ago that CCS detectives realised there has been a huge pendency in no less than 200 cases, which has put victims at a great disadvantage.
 
 “The process of clearing pending cases started almost six months ago. We already filed no less than 100 chargesheets and many more are pending, which date back to early 2000. It will take time, but we have kept realistic targets to clear the backlog,“ an officer told TOI. CCS deals with white-collar crime, which includes frauds and cheating.
 
 The CCS detectives were investigating several highprofile cases, including the Musaddilal `100 crore money laundering case, which was registered in the initial days of the Union government's   decision last year in November.
 
 
 By Srinath Vudali
 
