NAVI MUMBAI: An unit of the   (EOW) has unearthed a land scam worth crores, involving two   in Roadpali and one in Koparkhairane. 

 This came to light during the probe into a Rs   in Roadpali, in which three people have been arrested. Using the same modus operandi of using forged documents, the accused obtained a commencement certificate (CC) and an occupancy certificate (OC). 
 
 The EOW unit-2 officers said they would investigate if any Cidco employee was involved in the fraud.
 
  The fraudsters allegedly sold a 859 sqm plot in Roadpali to a doctor couple on which they built a hospital that is now operational. The couple have been named as accused along with the land agents. 
 
  The current value of the said plot is around Rs 1 crore per guntha (100 sqm). Hence, the cost of the plot is around Rs 8 crore.
 
 The accused have also built a seven-storied residential building on another plot measuring 808 sqm in the same locality. Two separate FIRs were registered in Kalamboli police station on Wednesday.
 
 Kalamboli police station’s senior inspector Kondiram Popere confirmed that two FIRs have been registered against the three arrested accused agents. The other accused, including the doctor couple, have not yet been arrested as their statements are yet to be recorded, he said.
 
 The scam also involves a 280 sqm plot in Koparkhairane’s sector-19 that has been sold to an investor by the key accused, Naresh Mhatre, and others in connivance with a Project Affected Person and some others. 
 
 Jayesh Gajera purchased the plot by paying an initial sum of Rs 25.50 lakh. The current value of the land is around Rs 1.25 crore, say real estate experts.
 
 An FIR was registered in Koparkhairane police station on Thursday.
 
 Cidco PRO Mohan Ninawe said, “As FIRs have been registered against the accused it is now a police matter. If the EOW officials suspect that Cidco employees are involved in the scam, then let the police department investigate. Cidco, like always, will cooperate in the police investigation.”
 
