KOCHI: The unusually high number of contestants who secure right for participation in the arts festival on the basis of appeals has for long been considered a headache for organizers. This raises serious doubts over the efficiency of the performance judgement system of the fest, considered to be the biggest cultural event in Asia.

 On Day Three of the 57th edition of the week-long festival, the number of appeal entries has already crossed 750, which is a record. Interestingly, several prize winners in the fest are students who got the chance to participate in the event through appeals after they failed to impress judges in district-level festivals.
 
 When the results of 29 items under High School category were published by Wednesday evening, at least 25 students who contested through appeal managed to win prizes. In the Higher secondary category, 23 contestants who participated in fest through lower level appeal, won prizes when the results of 30 events were published.
 
 The Bharathanatyam for High School (Girls) held on Tuesday witnessed 34 appeal entries in addition to direct entries from 14 districts. But it is to be noted that Amritha K P of Malappuram district and Sree Ranjini N S representing Kottayam district, who contested through appeal, took away first and second prizes. Out of the total of 34 appeal entries, 13 participants managed to win an 'A' grade. In Mohiniyattom competition, the first, second and third prizes were won by `appeal contestants'. Out of the total of 21 appeal entries in the event, 17 participants managed to secure an 'A' grade.
 
 In Mappilappatu competition for High School (Girls),   from Kozhikode, who contested through appeal won first prize in the event.   from Thrissur and   from Kannur, who secured participation through appeal, won third prizes.
 
 In Mappilappattu for boys under the High School category , the first prize and third prize winners were `appeal contestants'. In Kathakali competition for High School (Boys), an `appeal contestant' won the first prize.The second prize winner for Thiruvathira in the High School category too had secured participation through appeal.
 
 In the Higher Secondary (Girls) category , the first and second prize winners for light music for girls participated through appeal. It is to be noted that four out of the total five appeal particip a n t s won `A' grades in the event. In the Bhar at h a n at ya m for boys, an appeal contestant won first prize and in Bharatanatyam for girls, first and second prize were bagged by  .The other first prize winners who contested through appeal were in Kuchuppudi for boys, poem recitation in Hindi, Kathaprasangam, Thiruvathira and Mime.
 
 The number of ` A' grade winners who contested through appeal under the Higher Second ary category alone has crossed 100 on Wednes day . There are allegations that the grace marks be ing awarded to the ` A ', `B' and `C' grade winners of the festival is one of the major reasons for the hike in number of appeal entries. The education department will award 30 marks for an `A' grade winner. The `B' and `C' grade winners will be eligible for 25 and 15 marks respectively .  , director of public instruction, said the real reason could be found through a scientific analysis of the results in the district and state-level fests.
 
 “We are sure that judgement system in the state-level fest is foolproof,“ he said.
 
