LUDHIANA: In a shocking revelation that may put the income tax department and intelligence agencies on tenterhooks, a group of scamsters are blackmailing people, who had either made huge deposits of banned notes into their bank accounts or were raided during the demonetisation period, by sending them fake  . 

 Unlike I-T notices which are sent by registered post, the fake ones are being sent by courier to unsuspecting victims. They carry the Government of India's logo and the round stamp on the letterhead of the office of the deputy director of I-T (investigation), but do not have the name of the officer or the address of his office. The notices also mention a mobile number (9415510402) and the same is printed as the landline and fax numbers too.
 
 The matter came to light when a Ludhiana-based businessman, who was raided during the demonetisation period for depositing cash beyond known sources of income, received one such notice. When he called on the number mentioned on the notice, the person on the line introduced himself as a high ranking I-T official and told him that he (victim) had evaded tax and action would be taken against him. The scamster then told the businessman that he would try to do something about it and would call him back.
 
 The victim, who was already attending hearings on his tax evasion case at the I-T department's investigation wing in Ludhiana, immediately contacted the officials and showed them the notice. The officers confirmed it was fake and advised him to file a police case. However, he has not approached the police till now.
 
 When contacted, principal director of income tax, (Punjab and J&K)   refused to give any comments on the notice, but said, "The I-T department has already sent emails earlier, asking people not to divulge personal details over mail and telephone to anyone and one should keep in mind that the department does not ask for any information in unsolicited telephone inquiries. People must be cautious before revealing any personal information to anyone and in case of any doubts people can approach the income tax department directly and ascertain the authenticity of any notice or inquiry."
 
 Though it is not clear how many people have fallen prey to this fake notice scam, there is high probability that some might have actually “settled“ their cases through these fake I-T officials. A high ranking I-T official said, “These fake notices do not carry the name designation and office address of the sender and moreover no sections of offence. The modus operandi of scamsters is to fleece money from the people by scaring them of action by the department. Most probably they would extort money by striking a deal with the victim on the pretext that no action will be taken against him.“
 
 “As of now, we have neither come across any such case nor received any complaint of such nature from anyone or the I-T department. But yes, we will definitely take action if any such case is reported,“ Ludhiana police chief R N Dhoke said.
 
 
 
 
 The text in these fake I-T notices, copy of one of them is in TOI's possession, seems to have been copied from real I-T notices which were sent to people who had deposited cash beyond their known income sources during the demonetization period. But the fake ones do not mention the name, designation, address of the sender nor the nature of offence and the venue where to appear with relevant documents.
 
 The fake notice's subject line says, 'Enquiry of tax evasion by you with RBI for the fiscal year 2015-2016 — matter regarding'. The letter says, “In the wake of demonetisation of Rs 1000 and Rs 500 denomination currency notes, the income tax department under ministry of finance, Govt of India is examining the source of cash deposits or any other practices used to evade tax during this term. We have information in possession that your concern firm company has used some practices to evade tax and would need clarification on the same. You are hereby required to discuss this matter before me on or before 15-05-2017 at email itr@ enquiryindia.co.in with your contact information and right time to discuss. Failure to respond on the letter may/will lead to liable action further.“
 
 
 
