The one-room zilla parishad school at Pirpani village in the dense reserve forest area of Shirpur taluka in   district has a thatched roof atop, but no power to light up the classroom. But the 43 students of the school, which resembles a hut, rarely miss their class ever since they got a solar-powered Android television set in January as part of the digitsation drive launched to enhance their learning process.

 The school at Pirpani is not an isolated example in this district. In the last 15 months, similar initiatives have been taken up in 1,103 zilla parishad (ZP) schools involving 551 villages in four talukas of Dhule. As many as 32 of these schools function from huts because there cannot be any concrete structure in the localities coming under the Aner bird sanctuary.
 
 The credit for this unique innovation, both in terms of mobilising resources and ensuring its proper implementation, goes to an NRI from Dhule, Harshal Vibhandik (36), some of his friends, parents of the students and a few NGOs. All these stakeholders have joined hands and went for a sort of crowd-funding to ensure that these students, many of them tribals, learn their lessons in an interesting and modern way. 
 
 It all started in 2015, when a couple of teachers from these zilla parishad schools decided on their own to have a projector for the children. The baby steps turned into the first big stride when Harshal, an investment banker from New York, decided to be a part of the initiative through peoples’ participation. 
 
 Harshal’s initial aim was to transform at least one village in each taluka of Dule into digital one on the lines of Akodara in Gujarat. He, however, tweaked the plan and embarked on a mission to digitise the schools. 
 
 As part of the programme, the investment banker convinced the parents donate for the digitisation in the schools where their children studied. Harshal, along his friends in the US and those with NGOs, would bear up to 40% of the infrastructure cost. 
 
 For very small schools, with 10-20 students, a tablet was provided. The bigger schools got laptops, Android TVs and projectors as well. The gadgets are loaded with software having details of all subjects based on the state board syllabus. The software has been procured from a Pune-based private firm. 
 
 “It is a Prerna Sabha (inspiration meet) that propelled the movement without government help. I would speak to people and ask them to contribute whatever they could and vowed funds from my side as well. The response was overwhelming from the parents,” Harshal said. 
 
 “We got contributions as small as Rs 5 from a woman in a tribal area. She had no proper clothing even. Interestingly, her village donated Rs 2,500 in just an hour after we addressed the gathering during Navratri festival,” he said, adding that every penny counted.
 
 In economically weak areas, like Pirpani, the teachers contributed with the investment. In the bigger schools, the gram panchayat chipped in with 14th   funds or even Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas Act (in case of tribal areas).
 
 When Team TOI visited Pirpani school, the students were seen reciting the Marathi lessons that wwere displayed on the Android TV screen. 
 
 “Being in the bird sanctuary, the school cannot have a structured classroom. But as far as the learning process for our children is concerned, they are on a par with any other government school in the district. They are fascinated with this new technique,” said Jitendra Baviskar, headmaster-cum-teacher of that zilla parishad school.
 
 The education department has hailed the digitisation initiative in Dhule and have replicated in several other districts. “The model adopted in Dhule to start digitisation programme in schools is an exciting one. We have started replicating the model in districts such as Gondia, Nagpur, Nandurbar,” school education secretary Nand Kumar said.
 
 According to him, the audio-visual medium is a powerful tool of education. “The world is getting hooked to the system. The state government is keen that every school imparts education digitally. The Dhule-model can be a unique way to tide over the financial hurdle,” the senior IAS officer said. 
 
 Vibhandik said he has invited chief minister   to inaugurate one of the digitised schools. “Now that we have achieved cent-per-cent target of digitization of schools in the district, we are in touch with senior officials to facilitate the CM’s visit in Dhule,” he said. 
 
