PUNE: Commuters spent as much as 45 minutes extra around the   on Wednesday morning because of the one-way traffic arrangement.

 Baner Road bore the brunt of the traffic as those usually plying on Pashan Road were also diverted here as part of the new arrangement.
 
 The one-way traffic was enforced from 7am on Wednesday, and by 11am, the build up of traffic on Baner Road extended all the way till Baner Phata at the T-point of   Road. On the other end, vehicles were held up till the MSEDCL office on Senapati Bapat Road as the free flow of vehicles around the University junction was held up.
 
 With the traffic police managing vehicles manually, those plying on Aundh Road too got held up at the University junction signal for as much as 20 minutes.
 
 The   was used as a link be tween the two parallel roads.
 
 While the traffic police had put up plenty of information boards around the area informing commuters about the diversions, many clueless drivers still took time to figure out the changes, holding up traffic behind them.
 
 Some two-wheelers even got on pavements and footpaths to avoid the fast-building traffic jam.
 
 Scores of traffic constables and wardens were posted along Baner Road and at the junction to speed up the slowmoving traffic. Senior officials of the department were also spotted around the area.
 
 Amit Sharma, driving into the city from Mumbai, got stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic on Baner Road for more than 30 minutes. “I did not know anything about this one-way . The traffic has been heavy since the time I joined Baner Road at Hotel Sadanand and got worse around Baner Phata,“ he said.
 
 Physiotherapist Neha Joshi, who was going from Baner to   , said, “I don't think this one-way traffic is going to work. There are too many cars on one side now so everyone ends up spending a lot of extra time on the road,“ she said.
 
 A J Jadhav, headed to Deccan from Balewadi, said, “It's taken me 45 minutes just to reach University junction. This is a bad idea as too much public time is being wasted“.
 
