NEW DELHI: BJP members are set to strongly raise   (PAC) chairman K V Thomas’s remark that PM   could be summoned if the panel is not satisfied with the responses of RBI governor   and finance ministry officials on  . The issue is likely to be raised when the   meets later this week on Friday.

 Though Thomas has since amended his statement — made in Kerala on Monday — stating that he would go by the “consensus” in the committee, BJP MPs are upset that he has raised the possibility of calling the PM without waiting to hear the RBI governor and senior finance ministry officials who are scheduled to brief the committee on January 20.
 
 BJP MP Nishikant Dube, who has already written to Thomas seeking a deferment of the engagement with senior officials on the ground that they are also meeting the finance standing committee on Wednesday and that this would be a distraction in the midst of budget-making, said he intends to ask Thomas about his remarks. “As it is, the PAC is duplicating what the finance standing committee is doing. The subject of demonetisation is more directly the concern of the finance committee. It is most unusual that the chairman has spoken of calling the PM without any discussion in the committee,” Dube said.
 
 The PAC examines reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and usually calls senior officials related to the ministry under scrutiny as witnesses to assist the panel. The committee has not often called the RBI governor, who is amore regular presence before the finance committee.
 
 In what appears to be a spillover of the bad blood that marked the winter session of Parliament, BJP and Congress are warily circling one another over the proceedings of the PAC and the finance committee with two senior Congress leaders, Thomas and Veerappa Moily, heading the panels. BJP members seem to apprehend that the committee proceedings and evidence will become an avenue for criticism of the government’s demonetisation decision.
 
 Congress and members of some other opposition parties on the other hand are ready with questions intended to examine the chain of decision making involved in demonetisation and whether the central bank was kept in the loop in discussions concerning scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes.
 
 The background note supplied by the RBI to the finance committee suggests that the government recommended demonetisation to the central bank shortly before the November 8 announcement by Modi. Congress members of the committee read this as a directive from the government rather than RBI’s decision, pointing out that this is at variance with the claim that the RBI board decided on the measure.
 
 BJP sources contend that the communication does not reveal previous exchanges between the government and the RBI and the months of planning that preceded. They also contend that the government was within its rights to make a recommendation and the lateness of the recommendation is clearly linked to the need to maintain secrecy as the RBI was well aware of the plans. The PAC has seen considerable skirmishing between Thomas and Dube with the latter blocking adoption of several reports. The PAC norms mean that reports must be adopted by consensus and even one member can hold up the process.
 
 Dube has argued that a sub committee on defence should be headed by BJP member after S S Ahluwalia became a minister.
 
 Thomas has been averse to naming Dube as its head.
 
 Interestingly, former PM Manmohan Singh had offered to appear before the PAC over 2G scam. The then PAC chair M M Joshi did not call Singh though the proceedings were politically charged. The 2G and Coalgate reports continue to gather dust as Thomas has not been able to ensure consensus needed to pass them while BJP members are keen to ensure that comments critical of the UPA are not diluted or deleted.
 
 
