NEW DELHI: If details of Rahul Matta’s behaviour are to be analysed, it is fairly evident that the bright young   man was   after losing his job following his arrest for molesting a colleague’s wife in the US. That and the fact that his father disowned him 15 days ago sent him over the edge, leading to his deadly run at IP Extension on Sunday. 

 Rahul, 38, studied at a prominent private school in Delhi and migrated to Canada, where he joined the merchant navy in 1995. Things went well for the man till he was dismissed from service after serving a jail term in the US for his indiscretions with a colleague’s wife. He returned to Delhi two years ago, where the otherwise soft-spoken youth got into more women trouble. 
 
 He was warned several times by the residents of  , where he lived with his mother, for misdemeanours. A few months ago, he was even arrested after a woman charged him with eve-teasing. Soon after, betraying the state of his mind, Matta put up posters around the colony threatening vengeance against the area SHO and his accuser.
 
 He was becoming a menace at home too, often beating his mother Vibha, as well as his father Ravinder, who returned from Canada in October. Blaming them for his various woes, he told interrogators that he felt neglected by his parents who only had praise for his brother, Mukul, a well-paid employee in the US.
 
 Two months ago, Rahul opened up about his apparent marriage in September 2016 to a divorcee living in West Vinod Nagar. To his parents’ disapproval, the woman and her children, aged 9 and 15, began to visit the Mattas’ IP Extension apartment. TOI had reported on Monday that last year, Rahul had updated his Facebook status to “married” and that his father had even “liked” it. However, the investigating cops found that the troubled man had deserted the woman and had been avoiding her calls in recent days.
 
 “The parent’s dislike of the trio visiting the house became the topic of frequent arguments in the family,” said a neighbour. It came to a head 15 days ago, when Ravinder asked the colony guards to keep Rahul away from the house. 
 
 The guards reported that after his eviction, Rahul used to stand outside with his bags and threaten everyone in the colony. “He was under the impression that his parent’s decision was influenced by some neighbours,” said Atul Kumar, a resident. Once, Rahul evaded the security and reached his house. There he pasted a warning for his father and locked the door from outside. 
 
 
