"I had started checking the   website days before the results were going to be announced and had also stopped going out because I wanted to be with my family at that crucial moment," says Abhishek Singh Kadian, a final year student of  . Not just Abhishek, but all students go through this anxiety and nervousness as the date of their exam results draw near. With CBSE announcing the Class XII results today, students across the country will start their day by trying to 'bribe' all the gods, parents and siblings would be glued to the computer screens to know the results the second they are announced and all relatives would be getting ready to start comparing marks. The results have already been delayed by more than a week due to the moderation policy issue, keeping those who sat for their Board exams on tenterhooks. 

  On the big day, we speak to those who have been through all this anxiety and lived to tell the tale.
 
  
 Drishti Bhutani, a third-year student of Hans Raj College says that her father did not go to work until her results were announced because he was worried more than her. "I was checking the website every second and it kept showing 'To be announced'- that actually gave me mini heart attacks. My parents asked me to keep refreshing the website each second and my father, who had to go to his office, did not leave until my results were announced. Sab bas yehi chahte thay ki bas woh moment jaldi aaye aur saara suspense khatam ho."
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Many students who've been through the phase also tell us that while others ask you to keep calm, they are panicking themselves, which does not help at all. "I was in Madurai for my holidays when my results were announced. My dad was in Bangalore for work. We had gone there with our relatives, and one of my friends texted me saying that the results are out. I checked them without telling anyone and kept looking at my marks for ten minutes because I couldn’t believe my eyes. Once I was sure, I started screaming and my relatives came rushing from the other rooms. The best part was that my father wanted to be with me after that moment so he flew down from Bangalore." says Ashwin Immanuel, a third-year student of Ramjas College.
 
  
  (Picture for representational purposes only)
 
 
 Srishti Taneja, a third-year student of Jesus and Mary College tells us that while she had almost hijacked the CBSE website by constantly checking her results, her family was no less in doing the same. "My parents were really anxious about the results. I had not even eaten anything because I wasn't able to. We were just constantly checking the website. I was checking the results on the computer; my mom, sister and dad had my roll number and they kept checking the results on their phone. Sabko yeh tha ki bas kisi ka bhi server down ho toh doosra option ready ho," she laughs.
 
 
 Abhishek Singh Kadian, a third-year student from St Stephen's College recounts the days before his   were announced. "I wouldn't even leave the house because I would fear that I would get to hear about my results from someone else. I wanted to be with my family during that time and the day it was going to be announced, we were all acting 'cool' but we were really anxious. One of my friends and I had been checking the website for days, and the day it was announced, I couldn't believe myself because I had topped! My sister was like, 'Itne marks thodi na laate hain?'"
 
  
  
 
 
 
