NAGPUR: In some good news for the  , the  , on Thursday, informed that it would release all their pending dues towards compensation by March 31.

 The Nagpur bench of   then granted last chance to complete formalities and file a detailed report before April 6.
 
 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Indira Jain blasted the government’s casual attitude towards farmers, ignoring the fact that their suicides continued unabated. The missive came after government’s chart for paying compensation to farmers in Amravati district shows not a single person was eligible for it, even as Rs109.36 crore were allotted for them.
 
 When the court pointed out this anomaly to the government, it corrected the figures and informed that about 1.97 lakh farmers are eligible for receiving the compensation.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL by Devanand Pawar, an agriculturist from Yavatmal, and   (PIL No. 3/2016) through counsel Anil Kilor.
 
 During last hearing, the government submitted a chart informing that Rs443.55 crore were made available for paying compensation in Amravati, of which Rs41.48 crore were disbursed so far. Even for Nagpur district, Rs82.65 crore were earmarked for the purpose, but only Rs37.12 crore were distributed.
 
 “We may note that we are in the month of March i.e. fag end of financial year. On one hand, the farmers are committing suicide and on other, the government is acting in lethargic manner in providing assistance to the farmers as a compensation for the losses suffered by them,” the judges tersely stated.
 
 They directed divisional commissioners of Amravati and Nagpur divisions to file an affidavit explaining on why the compensation amount was not disbursed to the farmers despite allocation. The Amravati commissioner was told to specify on what has been done to Rs109.36 crore earmarked for farmers.
 
 The petitioners contended that the Amravati divisional commissioner office calculated crop value of over 2,158 villages from five districts in just two days, which is seemingly impossible task. The information was collected through collectors of Akola, Buldhana, Washim, Amravati and Yavatmal. The petitioner claimed that all figures were filled up in haste while sitting in office. Shockingly, due to wrong calculations, the villages, particularly from suicide capital of Yavatmal, were deprived of slew of benefits like waiver in school fees and restructuring of loans, among others.
 
