GAYA: Even though there are some shortcomings, the Pitrapaksh   this year would be remembered for several good reasons. The Mela area is almost free from stray animals and even beggars are being kept away. A hydraulic cattle-lifting van is being used to catch stray cattle in the mela area. 

 The machine has been hired from the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) as manual catching of bovines, besides being risk-prone is also very taxing and requires a lot of man power.
 
 Confirming the requisition of the cattle-lifting machine from the PMC, Gaya DM Kumar Ravi said cattle lifted by the hydraulic machine is subsequently transferred to Gorakshni, the cow shelter that takes care of abandoned cows. The animal husbandry department has sanctioned Rs 10 lakh to the animal care home for procuring feed and treatment of ailing cattle, he added.
 
 Though beggary stands banned, the beggar menace is all the more pronounced near places of worship and religious rituals. The narrow lanes and by lanes of Andar Gaya, the epicentre of ‘Pindadaan’ performance used to be further narrowed by stream of beggars competing with each other to grab the attention of pilgrims. 
 
 Referring to the beggar menace, the DM said, “Special teams are working overtime to ensure that beggars and stray animals are kept away from the pilgrimage area including Vishnupad Temple and Akshay Vat.” 
 
 About other special measures, the DM said a 40-member team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has been specially requisitioned and deployed at strategic points of ‘Pindadaan’ performance. ‘Pindadaan’ rituals are performed in several water bodies including Suryakund, Sitakund and Baitarni.
 
 Besides protecting devotees from drowning, the SDRF team is kept ready to meet any crisis during the congregation of a large number of pilgrims from different parts of the country and abroad.
 
 A sizeable number of pilgrims find herded together in very old and dilapidated buildings owned by Pandas in the old Gaya area. The SDRF team is also trained in rescue operations during incidents of house collapse. Moreover, Falgu is infamous for its flash floods and flash floods come with such fury that incidents of people being washed away are occasionally reported.
 
 Weather conditions in neighbouring Chatra district of Jharkhand state, according to the DM are also being monitored as heavy rainfall in Chatra invariably causes flash floods in Falgu.
 
 
