They say it’s never too late to start dreaming and planning. And, it looks like   in the city too are mapping out exciting activities for the New Year. While some want to go off on that long-pending vacation; there are a few, who want to revisit an old hobby. Some even want to push themselves to take up a grueling challenge. CT spoke to a few youngsters in the city and asked what would define them this year.

 
 
 I am an avid traveler and I have always wanted to watch Northern Lights in Iceland. It has been on my   for the last few years. I always take a long vacation every year but, somehow couldn’t make this trip happen. This year, I will ensure that I tick it off my list. I also want to stay at one of the igloo accommodations there.
 
 
 
 When I was a child, I used to put my creative skills to work by painting. But after I grew up, painting somehow took a backseat. Now with terrariums taking up most of my time, I hardly get time to revisit my childhood hobby. I want to relive my childhood days by taking up painting, yet again.
 
 
 
 I have always wanted to be part of a noble cause and blood donation was on top of my list. This year, I want to check it off. In fact, I am planning to donate blood in the first week of January itself as I will get busy with bike rides soon after. Later, I would like to sign up for organ donation as well. This way, my life would become a meaningful one.
 
 
 
 In 2016, I started my own production company to churn out films from my own stable. I would like to kick-start work on a full-fledged feature film this year. After all, it’s the ultimate dream of any filmmaker. There are a bunch of people, who have supported me throughout my independent film journey. This way, they would also get their much-deserved big break.
 
 
 
 A friend of mine recently completed a 31,000 km ride on his cycle and I was quite motivated by the feat. I want to clock least 12,000 km this year. I also want to take part in more triathlons and thus, pave the path for the Ironman World Championship in Switzerland in 2018. I have already begun practicing for the same, but I would like to push the envelope this year.
 
 
 
 This year, I would like to try a hand at ballroom dancing. Though I have been dancing for quite a few years now, I have not really been comfortable dancing with a boy. I want to shed that tag this year. I also want to spread happiness around and set my career path this year.
 
