Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the department of school education will start a two-week survey, Vidyarthi Ganana (student count), from July 21 to count the number of out-of-school children (OOSC) in Andhra Pradesh. At the end of the survey, the OOSC will be enrolled in local schools.

 The need for the survey was felt when two sets of data - number of school-going children and number of children who should be in school based on age demographics - were compared.
 
 According to AP Praja Sadhikara Survey (smart pulse survey), which collected socio-economic data of 1.4 crore families in the state, there are 68 lakh children of school going age in AP. 
 
 However, the recent Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) survey said about 60 lakh children in AP go to school. Comparison of these two surveys showed there are 8 lakh kids in the state who are not in school.
 
 State officials suspect that some of the eight lakh children may have not given information for the UDISE data or are studying in unrecognised schools. They further said there is a possibility of tracing 70 per cent of the children in CBSE schools, Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Schools and unrecognised schools. 
 
 Andhra Pradesh Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan state project director G Srinivas said the intensive micro-study of all parts of the state is aimed at understanding the phenomena of OOSC. “This will enable us to better account for OOSC It will also help enrol them in schools,” said Srinivas.
 
 Srinivas said the state government has taken measures to impart free education for which primary schools have been established in every 1-kilometre radius, upper primary schools in 3-kilometre radius and high schools in the radius of 5-km.
 
 The APSSA had recently conducted a one-day workshop for all the officials concerned on July 11 in Vijayawada to develop strategies to identify and mainstream the OOSC. Then only, it was decided to launch the special programme “Vidyarthi Ganana ” for verification of gross enrolment ratio , net enrolment ratio and identification of the actual OOSC with the help of technology based GER App.
 
 
