KOCHI: The opening of   is not going to be easy for city police. While Metro agencies expressed preparedness to commence commercial operations from Aluva to Palarivattom, the city police cautioned about the possible traffic congestion in the city. 

 The police expect inflow of large number of people to the city to take Metro rides or to get a glimpse of this new transport system. And as these services end at a busy location like Palarivattom it could lead to huge traffic blocks. Deputy commissioner of police (law &order and traffic) GH   said, "There will be more number vehicles on the streets and the waiting period at the junction will also increase. We will have to regulate traffic through alternate routes." He also said that the police would have to identify alternate routes and would have to work with "whatever available infrastructure."
 
 He said though some parking spaces have been identified, it was the responsibility of Kochi corporation and Metro agencies to provide adequate parking facilities. "The police can only enforce traffic regulations. We have already started the planning process. The police will be on the field at least one week ahead of the inaugural run and check out the regulations that have to be put in place," added Yatish Chandra.
 
 The city police also said that a new police force was being planned exclusively for Kochi Metro. This would be part of the state police and it would come into existence in the long run.
 
 Meanwhile, the city police will take up the responsibility of providing security at metro stations and other premises of Kochi Metro. The police will post sufficient number of men and women cops to ensure the security of passengers particularly women and children.
 
 "We have shortage in power. But as of now Kochi Metro is our baby and we will take care of it," said the deputy police chief.
 
 However, he said the   (KMRL) could decide whether they should entrust the safety of the metro with the police or other agencies like   (CISF).
 
