India and Bengaluru FC captain   has emerged as the likeliest player to deny Syrian midfielder   the chance to finish the   on an individual high.
 
  Amnah, with 81 international caps, has been the centrifugal force around whom   FC’s stunning campaign has revolved but when the All India   Federation (AIFF) counts votes from coaches to decide the best player of the I-League, the Syrian midfielder could fall short. Instead, it will be Chhetri, second highest scorer in the competition with seven strikes – the same as three others – who will emerge as the best, according to sources.
  
  Amnah spent two years at Sporting Clube de Goa before being forced to look at alternatives after the Goan club pulled out of the I-League. At Aizawl, Amnah – who hails from war-torn Allepo in Syria – has held the team together and taken them to the doorstep of an unlikely title.
  
  Despite Amnah’s close miss, Aizawl FC may still have plenty to celebrate when the AIFF announces the I-League awards. Liberian midfielder Alfred Jaryan is almost certain to be voted the best midfielder of the I-League ahead of his teammate Amnah, quite an achievement for the Liberian who played as striker in Aizawl’s failed campaign last season and was transformed into an enterprising midfielder this year by coach Khalid Jamil.
  
  Goalkeeper Albino Gomes is jostling for the top individual honour with Mohun Bagan goalkeeper Debjit Majumder while Nigerian defender Eze Kingsley is locked in a fierce battle with Mohun Bagan’s Anas Edathodika for the best defender award.
  
  Brandon Vanlalremdika can expect to be the leading contender for the best Under-22 player alongside Chesterpoul Lyngdoh (Churchill Brothers) and Udanta Singh (Bengaluru FC).
  
  Aser Dipanda Dicka’s 10 goals makes him the unanimous choice for the best striker award.
  
  Meanwhile, the AIFF plans to have the awards ceremony in Mumbai in June and will present three special awards to the likes of Uvena Fernandes (first Indian to officiate in a Fifa final), Bengaluru FC for making it to the AFC Cup final and Gurpreet Singh Sandhu for being the first player to start an Europa League game.
  
  
 Best goalkeeper: Debjit Majumder (Mohun Bagan), Albino Gomes (Aizawl); best defender: Eze Kingsley (Aizawl), Anas Edathodika (Mohun Bagan); best midfielder: Alfred Jaryan, Mahmoud Al Amnah (both Aizawl); best forward: Aser Dipanda Dicka (Shillong Lajong), Darryl Duffy (Mohun Bagan); best U-22 player: Brandon Vanlalremdika (Aizawl), Chesterpoul Lyngdoh (Churchill Brothers), Udanta Singh (Bengaluru FC); best player: Sunil Chhetri (Bengaluru FC), Mahmoud Al Amnah (Aizawl).
