BENGALURU: After   it was the turn of former   star   to stop   in   but eventually the Barcelona legend ended on top again as   got the better of   6-4 here on Thursday .

 The win confirmed Delhi's entry into the semifinals as they moved to the top of the table with 10 points from three wins and a draw from four matches.
 
 There were some early forays from Cobras but Delhi slowly began to put the passes together with Ronaldinho trying to assert himself. Though it was Cobras who took the lead at the start of second quarter, courtesy an own goal by Nicolas Rolon in the 11th minute, Delhi hit back immediately with a flurry of goals to lead 3-1 at halftime. Delhi found the equalizer in just under a minute when Ismail Hamdaoui slammed ho me from just outside the sixyard semi-circle even as the Cobras were busy negating the threat of Ronaldinho down the flank.
 
 The second and third goals came in a flash when Henrique Catarino scored. First, he connected a cross from Diego Costa and then tapped in a rebound after an attempt by Ronaldinho hit the post.
 
 Changing ends, the match picked up pace as Delhi ended with a 5-3 scoreline in their favour after the third period. It also saw a special effort from the Brazilian star as he went close with an acrobatic bicycle shot in the 25th minute much to the delight of fans. Cobras' keeper Benwin Gama, who celebrated after denying Ronaldinho from a one-to-one situation during the second period, soon conceded defeat as the star player tapped in from close to make it 4-1.
 
 Though Kerala pulled one back through Ton Phi two minutes later, Catarino found his third goal as Delhi pulled away.But Salgado quickly scored one to reduce the margin to 3-5 before Daniel Ibanes struck in the 34th minute to make 4-5.
 
 Result: Delhi Dragons 6 (Catarino 13, 14, 26; Ronaldinho 21, 39; Hamadaoi 12) bt Kerala Cobras (Rolon 11OG, Ton Phi 23, Salgado 27, Ibanes 34); Telugu Tigers 5 (Peerapat 8, 34; Anupam 9, 35; Mauro 26) bt Mumbai Warriors 3 (Rico 14, Carlos 31, Giggs 31)
 
 
