Panaji: The absence of major Goan clubs from the I-League can prove to be a blessing in disguise as the state chases the  , last won in 2009.
 
  The absence of Dempo Sports Club, Salgaocar FC and Sporting Clube de Goa from the I-League means their players are eligible to represent Goa in Santosh Trophy and Goa will feel confident of regaining the trophy after bowing out in the semifinals against eventual champions Services last year.
  
  The five-time champions start their quest against   at Chun Kumari ground in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday and play hosts Madhya Pradesh – who drubbed Daman and Diu 7-0 on Tuesday -- on Saturday.
  
  Goa last won the title in 2009 when they defeated Bengal 4-2 via penalties in Chennai. Former India midfielder   (FC Pune City), Fulgancio Cardozo (FC Goa) and Marcus Mascarenhas (Sporting Clube) were members of that winning side and their experience can add to Goa’s strength.
  
  “We picked up players based on their performance in the Goa Pro League. We have to field three U-20 players in the starting 11 and it will give them a platform. Liston was the highest scorer in the Goa league and much is expected from him,” said coach Mateus   after the team’s training session on Wednesday.
  
  As Costa explained, he picked players solely on their performance in Goa Pro League. But the league ended only on December 31 and Costa had time to play just one friendly before leaving for the West zone qualifiers.
  
  Spearheading Goa’s attack this year will be 18-year-old Liston Colaco, who impressed with 13 goals on debut in Goa Pro League for champions Salgaocar FC. Youngsters like Latesh Mandrekar, Leander D’Cunha, Akeraj Martins, Aaren D’Silva, Melvin Lobo and Assumption Soares can also attract attention with their performance at the Santosh Trophy.
  
  “All players are fit and ready to give their best for Goa. This team has a good balance of youth and experience but we must first qualify for the final phase,” said captain Francis, who will play a vital role alongside experienced Peter Carvalho, Richard Costa and Brian Mascarenhas, all gifted midfielders.
  
  Goa should be favourites to qualify for the final stage but there can be pitfalls. Long-distance travel is one, and then they have to recover quickly for the decider against Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.
  
  The team: Francis Fernandes (captain), Agnelo Gomes, Leander D’Cunha, Latesh Mandrekar, George D’Souza, Assumption Soares, Richard Costa, Melvin Lobo, Leny Pereira, Fulgancio Cardozo, Ponif Vaz, Jessel Carneiro, Liston Colaco, Marcus Mascarenhas, Peter Carvalho, Melroy Fernandes, Fayaz Shaikh, Brian Mascarenhas, Aaren D’Silva and Akeraj Martins. Mateus Costa (head coach), Norbert Fernandes (assistant coach), Anthony Pango (manager), Sanjiv Nagvenkar (chef de mission).
