AURANGABAD: Determined to launch a public transport system from June 5, the civic body would soon approach the state government for necessary approvals, especially with regard to exemption of royalty and concession in road tax. 

 As the   Municipal Corporation ( ) is all set to launch the much-required facility in association with a private agency, the agency has been demanding that the municipal body should not collect royalty from them and that they should be given concession in road tax. 
 
 A crucial meeting of the municipal authorities, representatives of the   (MSRTC),   (MTDC) and the regional transport office (RTO) was held here on Monday to give final shape to the proposed initiative. The stake-holders were supposed to decide bus routes and finalise tickets rates but they couldn’t. Instead, the municipal authorities asked the agency to check feasibility on seven existing routes tentatively proposed in the first phase.
 
 Sources told TOI that the MSRTC, which is operating public transport system on these roads, would withdraw its services soon after the private agency comes into the scene. 
 
 Municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar said, “Exemption of royalty and concession in road tax are out of the purview of the civic body. It is the state government that takes a call on this and thus we have decided to approach them within a day or two.” 
 
 The municipal body on Monday reiterated that it would provide parking space to the company that will launch a fleet of 15  . 
 
 The MSRTC and the MTDC also gave nod to the ambitious initiative. The MTDC observed that the buses should also ply on the roads connecting the city with the nearby tourist spots like Ellora caves. 
 
 At present, the MSRTC is operating the public transport system with a fleet of 29 buses plying on 12 routes. The transport body that has been insisting that the civic body should take over the responsibility of operating the system has no plans to operate bus services in densely populated areas like Satara, Devlai, Naregaon, Mukndwadi, Mitmita, Padegaon and many other places.
 
 In its previous attempt, the AMC had miserably failed to run the public transport system. Soon after launching the system under BTO model, the service landed in troubled waters and finally the authorities stopped it in 2010. The problems included frequent staff strikes, lack of adequate number of buses and failure of its commitment to pay royalty to the AMC. 
 
