HUBBALLI: Many ATMs of nationalised banks and other private banks in   and other parts of   remained closed, displaying 'No Cash' or 'Out of Order' boards following the threat of the ransomware virus called Wannacry. 

 Most of the banks have taken measures to upgrade their ATMs to protect them from the virus and curb hacking for the safety of customers' money. Customers, unaware of the sudden closure of ATMs, wandered from one kiosk to another in Hubballi and Dharwad on Tuesday, but in vain.
 
 Barely two weeks ago, ATMs of some banks were working smoothly, but now the virus threat has forced banks to shut their kiosks to upgrade software. Canara Bank, SBI, Syndicate Bank, Vijaya Bank and other banks kept their ATMs closed, with the screens stuck with 'No Cash' stickers.
 
 This apart, the cash crunch is continuing to hit the economy, with almost all SBI ATMs running out of money. Only a few ATMs of nationalized banks functioned in some areas of the cities. Lalita Shetty, senior manager, Canara Bank, Hubballi, said upgradation of the office system has been completed, and work on upgrading ATMs is in progress, following a virus threat. Almost all ATMs of the bank are closed.
 
 "There was no communication from our vendors on who will operate our ATMs for the past two days as we have stopped internal communication due to the virus threat. Our vendors will send an indent to fill ATMs with adequate cash, but now we have stopped getting the indent till the upgradation of our system. All our ATMs will start functioning normally in the next couple of days, she said.
 
 Girish Mitare, planning officer, Vijaya Lead Bank, Hubballi, said they did not have a cash crunch problem, but they were forced to shut their ATMs to upgrade software due to the ransomware threat. It will be done in a couple of days, he said.
 
 Manjunath, an SSLC student, said he could not draw money to get an admission form for the PU college course since ATMs were shut or had no cash.
 
 Shankar Yalligar, working in a private firm, said he wanted to buy some materials for his housewarming ceremony, but there was no cash in any of the ATMs. There is no one to tell us what the problem is either, he complained. PT Chavan, assistant general manager, SBI main branch, Hubballi, said their ATMs are not facing any virus threat, but admitted to a cash crunch. However, HDFC Bank main branch on Deshpandenagar Road put up a board regretting inconvenience for closing its ATMs to upgrade software following a virus threat. 
 
 
