The troubles do not seem to be ending for Noida’s 'Bigg Boss' winner  . Since his return to Noida after winning the popular reality show, Manveer has dealt with injuries due to overzealous fans, had to spend two days away from home as fans crowded his village, and is embroiled in a controversy about an alleged ‘secret’ marriage and child. Now, to add to all that, a case has been registered against Manveer and his supporters in Noida for blocking the road during his extravagant victory procession on Tuesday.

 Manveer had arrived in Noida from Delhi’s IGI Airport on Tuesday in a cavalcade of over a hundred cars, causing traffic jams in several parts of south Delhi, and most notably on the Dadri Road near his village  .   has taken cognisance of that and registered a case against Manveer and his supporters for wrongful restraint.
 
 Dinesh Yadav, SP (city), Noida, told us, "Manveer and his supporters had blocked the stretch of Dadri Road outside Agahpur, causing inconvenience to commuters and causing delay for many of them. This is why a case has been registered against them in the Sector 39 police station." Officials from the concerned station told us that a case under Section 341 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Manveer and an unspecified number of supporters. The complaint was registered after a notification from the cops present on the spot, who were trying to manage the traffic and crowd on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 
  Cops have filed a case against Manveer and his supporters for blocking traffic in Noida on the day of his arrival 
 
 
 Section 341 of the IPC deals with wrongful restraint. Cops say that this section has been applied in this incident because people on the road were restrained from moving out and were unable to get out of that area because of the actions of Manveer and his supporters. The offence is bailable and carries a fine of Rs 500 or an imprisonment of up to one month if convicted. Manveer, whose real name is Manoj Kumar Baisoya, will now have to be present in the police station and record his statement.
 
 Manveer’s family, however, calls the development a misunderstanding. As per his brother Sachin, the jam and road blockage was not done by Manveer himself, but by his fans whom he had no control over. "We only had about a dozen cars with us. All the other cars and people were fans and well-wishers who came from outside Noida. We had no control over them. It wasn’t Manveer’s or our fault that there was a jam that day. But we will cooperate with the police and try to sort this matter at the earliest," Sachin told us.
 
 
