 in the city are no longer confined to the   but are taking place in busy areas such as in government hospitals, ATMs, commercial establishments and shops. Concerned by such happenings, Vizagites list ways to minimise fire mishaps and emphasise on strict enforcement of  .

 Permission to buildings
 
 Lots of apartments, hospitals, cinema halls and malls are violating the rules and regulations and we are seeing many fire mishaps mainly due to lack of fire and safety measures. The government is giving permission for apartments in narrow streets (galli) without safety measures. If accident occurs, there’s no access for fire tenders to enter those streets. Our city is now a smart city but we are modifying our city without putting in place safety measures which will threaten our future. Therefore, GVMC officials should issue fire safety certificate to private buildings only after ensuring that all the norms are in place. 
 
 Choppa Rama Raju, Pvt employee
 
 Follow guidelines
 
 The recent fire mishaps in Vizag city were on account of electrical short circuits. But there were also cases of gas leakages in houses and industrial units in the pharma SEZ. The main reason for these frequent accidents is laxity on the part of establishment owners as well as law enforcement authorities, right from GVMC to fire safety department. Occupancy certificate should be given to a building only after ensuring all the fire safety measures are implemented thoroughly. Electrical connections and equipment should be of high quality and precautions against overloading and short circuits should be taken. Fire extinguishers and other materials should be maintained properly to meet any emergency. The approach roads should allow fire tenders to reach the affected building in a short time. More importantly, the building or any establishment should follow the fire safety guidelines prescribed by the government and on their part, the authorities should frequently inspect all the vulnerable places to ensure strict adherence to rules.
 
 Maradapu Srinivasa Rao, Retired bank employee
 
 Keep a strict vigil 
 
 With fire accidents becoming frequent in the city, the   (APPCB) and the district administration should keep a strict vigil on the safety standards before giving clearances to any industry. The recent incidents in some of the factory units in the city limits raise questions about safety standards. In one of the recent incidents, fire tender service took over 48 hours to douse the fire as there was not enough room for the fire tenders to access the unit. This led to many people questioning the concerned inspecting department’s approving factory operations and role of the APPCB.
 
 Lohit Ganivada, Student
 
 
 
 Though fire accidents can’t be stopped, steps to prevent and reduce fire accidents can certainly be taken. Simple measures such as keeping functional fire extinguishers and housekeeping are not considered by most establishments. Apart from these, insurance is one thing that most establishments don’t care about, which can minimise the loss due to fire mishaps.
 
 N Ramprasad, Private employee
 
 
 
 
 To control fire mishaps, quality electricity wiring, fire safety measures, protectable transformers, experienced electricians and mainly self-discipline and responsibility are required. Indiscipline and irresponsibility in deploying fire safety measures have aggravated the problem.
 
 Satya Chunduri, Teacher
 
 
  
 
 To control frequent incidences of fire mishaps and loss of lives and property, enforcement of rules is very much required especially in commercial places. Many such places don’t have functional fire-fighting equipment. Only when a mishap happens, checking and enquires are made but soon the issue is closed and forgotten.
 
 Vivek Rathod, Social worker
 
