LUCKNOW: A man was shot dead allegedly by his   over a   in Para on Thursday afternoon. 

 The killer fired twice at victim Shiv Sagar Verma before fleeing the scene. One person was detained late at night but the main accused is still on the run. 
 
 Verma, who owned a tent business, lived with his mother and wife Laxmi Yadav in Gayatrinagar. Laxmi’s family was against their relationship. 
 
 Verma had known Laxmi for four years before marriage. Her family had fixed her marriage with another man to get rid of Verma. However, Laxmi did not agree and decided to marry Shivsagar in July 2016. 
 
 Laxmi’s brother Ashu was enraged at the step and had threatened Verma with dire consequences. However, Verma was defiant. 
 
 The issue soon became a talking point in the locality as residents and relatives scoffed at Ashu for being a coward who could not tackle Verma, a man of “inferior” caste. Ashu was often taunted by people, Verma’s brother told  . 
 
 Around 1pm on Thursday, Verma had gone to a wedding venue for business in Shiv Vihar, where Ashu reached along with accomplices Awadesh and Umesh.
 
 Ashu whipped out a pistol and shot twice at Verma, killing him. People rushed Verma to trauma centre but he was declared brought dead.
 
 KGMU trauma centre in charge Haider Abbas told TOI that Verma had sustained two bullet injuries. 
 
 ASP (east) Shivram Yadav said, “We have detained Awadesh Yadav, accused by Verma’s brother Rajendra. However, Ashu is the main culprit and efforts to nab him are under way”.
 
 SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said Ashu had threatened Verma and his family of dire consequences a few weeks ago and directed them to stay away from Laxmi.
 
 Surveillance helped nab 1
 
 Senior officials got evidence against Ashu through mobile phone surveillance. 
 
 Ashu Yadav’s location was tracked in Para from 12.30pm-1.15pm though he is a resident of Madiaon. 
 
 He called his father Raju at 1.20pm. At 1.35pm, his location was Sitapur Road and thereafter his phone was switched off.
 
 The police also tried Raju’s phone but it was switched off too. The murder took place between 1pm and 1.15pm. 
 
 “We have formed teams to nab Ashu,” said Meenakshi Katyayan, ASP (Alambagh)
 
 An FIR on the basis of a complaint by Rajendra has been registered against Ashu Yadav, Umesh Yadav, Awadesh Yadav and Laxmi Yadav for murder and criminal conspiracy. 
 
 
