These women have faced adversities with the kind of courage that inspires people. Here are a few lessons from them on how to come out on top even when the odds are stacked against you and the world seems to be a cruel place.

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  Krushnaa Patil
 
  
  The first Indian   mountaineer to climb Mt. Vinson Massif, in Antarctica.
 
  
 I don’t want an easy life. I look for challenges. I have been trekking since I was nine. At 16, I did my basic mountaineering course and wanted to do daring things. Once I climbed Mount Everest, I went on to scale Mount McKinley, the tallest peak (6,194 m) in North America. Climbing the highest peak in Antarctica was fascinating. Climbing peaks is addictive. Mountaineering has been an obsession for me. Personally, the journey has been more fulfilling than the final destination. I know in my heart that I can achieve anything. Today at 27, there’s no fear within me. I’ve always kept my mind positive and full of hope. Mountaineering is a sport that chisels your mind against every odd.
 
  
  Having crazy, random dreams and following them. 
 
  
  The belief that there’s nothing a woman can’t do today. Mountaineering is about having the guts to brave every storm. Your bravery takes you to the highest peaks.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  Acid attack victim, who is now a fashion designer and United Nations representative. Here’s her life story after 43 surgeries...
 
  
  I was just 19 when I was attacked with acid after saying no to a man who wanted to marry me. I was driving, when they threw acid on me. I had 80 per cent burns. Till date, I’ve had 43 surgeries. After the initial shock, I’ve dealt with adversity with great optimism. I lost my face, my identity. But I didn’t give up my dreams. I told myself I cannot just die, and let this life go. My family stood by me like a rock. I didn’t want their efforts to go waste. I made sure I loved myself. If I felt depressed, I made myself get out of it. There were times, when I felt very low but I was a problem solver. I couldn’t sit and cry over one thing. I still feel bad. I keep thinking what if my life was normal? These things hit you hard. But I realised, if I got married and had kids that would be normal destiny. I was destined to do extraordinary things. I’ve set my own bars. I made my education and knowledge my identity. This gave me hope for a better life. When on the hospital bed, I used to train my mind to think clearly about my future. I visualised myself living a normal life, walking like a normal girl. It gave me vision and focus, and the will to live. What mattered was my willingness to be alive. And then to live large. 
 
  
  I choose faith over fear. I’ve never looked back. 
 
  
  Nourish your extraordinary dreams. Keep hoping for the best. It happens.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Meher Heroyce Moos
 
  
  The first Indian woman to go to Antarctica, she has visited 185 countries and has 18 passports stacked together!
 
  
 My father had a huge library and as a child I grew up reading books. I loved history, dreamt of visiting the birth and death places of British poets and writers. When I grew up, I joined Air India to fulfill my dreams of travelling. First, it was a case of curiosity, then it became an obsession. My life has been a dream – travelling to remote, far-flung places. I met Swedish-American explorer Lars-Eric Lindblad at Srinagar in the ’70s and he offered me a trip to Antarctica on his ship. After facing many difficulties, I reached Cape Town, where the ship was leaving. Antarctica is a dessert – cold and white. We stayed there for a month. I’ve been to the Amazonian rainforests, Caribbean Islands.
 
  I’m 72 going on 22. Sometime back, I had a sciatica attack, I was bedridden for two months. All I visualised was to get well and start travelling again. So now I’m planning a trip to Iran.
 
  
  I have a lust for travelling to new places. I always wanted to go to a place where nobody has wanted to go.
 
  
  I always had an over-load of the two Gs – guts and gumption.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  Deepa Malik
 
  
  A mother of two, she overcame a spinal tumour, 31 surgeries and 183 stitches to win India a silver medal at the   last year.
 
  
  I have stared at adversity in the face 18 years ago when I was told that my two choices in life were paralysis or death. I chose the tough life. I made my disability my biggest ability. I run my own restaurant but my heart was always in sports. I’m a cricketer, an accomplished swimmer on the international platform. Right now, I’m biking too. There’s absolutely nothing I can’t do. I’ve registered twice in the Limca Book of Records – once, for crossing a one-kilometre stretch of the Yamuna, against the current, in 2008, and then covering 58 km by a special bike. Being sporty is what kept me positive. I tasted success at the 2010 Para Asian Games, I also aspired to make a mark at the 2012 London Paralympics but my big dream was always Rio. 
 
  Being a para athlete in India is tough, you are always fighting the odds and the system. I feel there isn’t acceptance of my body. There were times I didn’t feel I was the citizen of this country. My aim is to change the stereotypical image of wheelchair users. The biggest challenge is to train your mind. There are three major ingredients: accept, adapt and keep learning. The tumours disabled my entire body. I trained my mind to know what my body was feeling. I knew that I have to remain in this body, so I started figuring out the impossible number of things I could still do with this body. Adaptation is very important. You need to focus on the capability of the person in the wheelchair.
 
  
  My mind was my biggest source of strength. I was always positive. I wanted to make my own destiny.
 
  
  You just have to keep ignoring the odds. Every moment gives you an opportunity, grab it. Replace every weak thought with a powerful one. 
 
 
