AMRITSAR: Cricketer-turned-politician   filed his nomination from Amritsar East assembly constituency on Wednesday. The former Amritsar MP, who switched over to the Congress from  , also tried to dowplay talks of his being in contention for the CM’s post if the his new party came to power by saying that he was a soldier of the captain (  chief  ) and wanted to see him lead the state.

 On his way to filing nomination papers at the DC office in Amritsar, Sidhu went to the house of Congress veteran leader Raghunandan Lal Bhatia to seek his blessings. Now a popular TV personality, Sidhu had contested his first Lok Sabha elections in 2004 as a BJP nominee and trounced Bhatia by 1,09,532 votes. He described the six-time MP Bhatia as his ‘Bhishma Pitamah’.
 
 Reacting to the visit, Bhatia said, “He came and told me that he had joined Congress and wanted my blessings. I am happy.”
 
 To underline that he was not in the race for the CM’s seat, Sidhu delivered one of his signature one-liners: “Chah gayee, chinta gayee (I have foresaken wants and worries); manwa be parwah (I feel carefree). Jisko kuch na chahyee, so hi shehanshah (A person who doesn’t need anything is the real king).”
 
 He followed it up by saying that he was not contesting the elections for any post, but for Punjab. “I want to restore the pride of Punjab, for which I have to fight by being a part of its system,” he said.
 
 Training his guns at the SAD’s Badal family, Sidhu said the family had wrested control of all prominent businesses in Punjab. “Bhaag, Badal, bhaag. Punjab ki janta aayee hai, kursi khali kar (Run, Badal, run. People of Punjab have come, leave the chair),” he said.
 
 Touches Luxmi Kanta’s feet
 
 Congress’s Amritsar East candidate Navjot Singh Sidhu touched the feet of BJP senior leader Luxmi Kanta Chawla when the duo came face to face at Amritsar’s DC office. While the cricketer-turned-politician had gone there to file his nomination, Chawla was accompanying her party’s candidate for the   byelection, Rajinder   Chhina, for filing his papers. As soon as the duo met each other, Sidhu touched Chawla’s feet.
 
 
 
 
 Sidhu also joined his one-time political bête noir O P Soni to accompany Congress’s Amritsar Lok Sabha byelection nominee, Gurjit Singh Aujla, to file his nomination papers. In the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, Sidhu had contested against Soni and him by a thin margin of 6,858 votes.
 
 Sensing foul play, Soni had challenged the election in the Punjab and Haryana high court and accused Sidhu of transferring his “favourite” officers for taking favours. In 2006, he had also filed a defamation case against Sidhu for “objectionable utterings”, but he didn’t pursue the case.
 
 
