JODHPUR: While the entire   in Jalore was toiling hard in  , the   stayed put at his official residence to receive bribe.   (ACB) on Sunday arrested him accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000 for issuing a housing registration.

 ACB’s additional SP, Annraj Singh Rajpurohit said that a complaint was filed against Jalore Municipal Council commissioner and Rajasthan Administration Services (RAS) officer Trikamadan Charan that he was demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 for issuing ‘patta’ of house.
 
 “Complainant Dayaram Mali had applied in the municipal council for obtaining ‘patta’ of his house under Shahari Jan Kalyan Yojana. His patta was ready but commissioner Charan was demanding a bribe of Rs. 50,000 from him to issue the patta,” said Rajpurohit.
 
 Rajpurohit said that Charan had already obtained Rs 10,000 from Mali and had been demanding Rs 50,000 more.
 
 The sleuths of   first verified the complaint and later laid a trap to arrest the RAS officer. During verification of the complaint, Charan asked the complainant to come to his residence on Sunday with the money.
 
 “The moment, Mali handed over the money of the officer, we caught him taking money red-handed and arrested him under the relevant sections of the prevention of corruption act”, Rajpurohti said, adding that this the second time in 10 years of service that Charan has been found involved in corruption. “When he was posted in Pali, he was found to be involved in similar case of bribery, following which he was sent on awaiting posting orders,” the official said.
 
 Charan is a resident of Sirohi district, and the sleuths of ACB were planning to search his house on Sunday, but they couldn’t reach Sirohi due to flood in Jalore.
 
 It may be recalled that two years back in 2015, chairman of the Jalore Municipal Council had also been arrested by the ACB for receiving a bribe of Rs. 35000.
 
 Chairman Bhanwarlal Mali had received this money from a civil contractor Jitendra Kumar for clearing his bills but was caught red handed while accepting bribe.
 
 
