Generally, in  , when a film be comes a hit, filmmakers prefer to repeat the same combination. But of late, music directors who have worked on a successful film are being replaced with other composers. The latest is Prabu Solomon, who has roped in upcoming composer   for the sequel to his 2012 film, Kumki. Here are other sequels that have gone for a change of music director...

 
 Kamal Haasan managed to get some fabulous music from the Bollywood composing trio Shankar Ehsaan Loy for Vishwaroopam. But he gave us all a surprise when he announced that Ghibran, whose music for Vaagai Sooda Vaa he liked very much, would be composing for the second film. And Ghibran seems to have impressed the Ulaganayagan with his work in the film, going by the fact that Kamal retained him for his three subsequent films -Uttama Villain, Papanasam and Thoongavanam.
 
 
 Prabu Solomon and Imman had first teamed up Sibiraj's Lee, but it was with their second collaboration, Mynaa, that they created magic. Kumki, which followed Mynaa, became this combo's biggest hit and turned Imman into a bankable composer. However, their next couple of projects, Kayal and Thodari, couldn't capture the highs of their previous films. Now, for his Kumki 2, which will have an entirely new cast, the director has surprised everyone by choosing Nivas Prasanna, who made a remarkable debut with Thegidi and made new fans with the massy soundtrack of Sethupathi.
 
 
 
 Right from his debut, 3, Anirudh had provided something special when it came to the music of Dhanush's film. With   writing the lyrics, they had become a formidable collaboration, dubbing themselves as DnA. However, post Thanga Magan in 2015, this hit jodi seems to have parted ways, for reasons that continue to be a mystery -and are wildly speculated in Kollywood circles. Now, Dhanush has struck a rapport with singer and composer Sean Roldan, whom he roped in for his directorial Pa Paandi. And when Dhanush decided to make VIP 2, with Soundarya Rajnikanth as the director, it was Sean who he chose as the music director.However, we hear Sean has retained some of Anirudh's themes from the original as they have become integral to the film.
 
 
 
 Saamy was the first film for which Hari and Harris Jayaraj came together. The album was quite a chartbuster that they worked together in Kovil and Arul.However, post that, Hari went ahead and worked with composers like Bharadwaj (who had composed for his debut Thamizh), GV Prakash Kumar, Yuvan Shankar Raja and Devi Sri Prasad. The latter two even became sort of regulars in Hari's films. Devi also composed the music for the director's   franchise. However, Hari went back to Harris for the third film in the series, Si 3. And now, as if to make up for it, he has offered Devi Sri Prasad his next project -Saamy 2. Talk about keeping everyone happy!
 
 
 
 For his sleeper hit Goli Soda, cinematographer-turned-director Vijay Milton had introduced SN Arunagiri as the composer.The songs, most of which were laced with the flavor of gaana, were quite functional, but did not become chartbusters. The score, however, was done by Kannada composer Anoop Selin, for whom the film marked his Tamil debut. Milton repeated the pair again in Kadugu, where, once again, Arunagiri composed the song while Anoop provided the background score. Now, the director, who launched the sequel to Goli Soda last week, has brought on board Achu (of Maalai Pozhudhin Mayakathilaey fame) to compose the music for the film. 
 
 
 
 
