NAGPUR: Despite requests by lawyers and   ( ), the chief justice of Bombay High Court assigned duties to Justice Bhushan Gavai at its principal seat in Mumbai. The legal fraternity was upset over the development, terming it as a ‘big loss’ to the region of Vidarbha.

 The HCBA on Wednesday unanimously cleared a resolution for retaining Justice Gavai, the senior administrative judge at the Nagpur bench, and dispatched it to Chief Justice Manjula Chellur for consideration. The lawyers made a strong pitch after speculations that   may be transferred to principal seat in Mumbai, based on his seniority. However, when the new cause list was released on Friday evening, Justice Gavai’s name was not in the list of judges in Nagpur, which cleared that he would be working in Mumbai.
 
 “He is known for his landmark orders that had benefited thousands and helped in reviving important education and medical institutions like   and Hospital. Even in the case of Kasturchand Park, his orders will save the historic place from being exploited commercially. He takes any matters to their logical end, which is his USP,” Shreerang Bhandarkar, who had initiated the move to pass resolution said. 
 
 Justifying their decision to retain the senior administrative judge, even HCBA secretary Prafulla Khubalkar had stated that he was well-versed with the region and has vast knowledge of different litigations and laws.
 
 Justice Gavai & 3 other judges to sit during HC vacation
 
 For special and urgent hearings during the month-long summer holidays beginning from Monday, the Bombay High Court registry has released names of judges who will sit at the Nagpur bench. Four judges have been shortlisted, who will conduct hearings for one week each from Monday until June 4. From May 6 to13, Justice Bhushan Gavai would take up hearings. He would be replaced by Justice Ravi Deshpande from From May 14 to 20. From May 21 to 27, Justice Atul Chandurkar will conduct the hearings while it will be Justice Swapna Joshi from May 28 to June 4.
 
