Visakhapatnam: The roller coaster ride of whether Vizag will finally be home to the aircraft carrier INS Viraat is still not over! 

 AP tourism department sources said the state government is still keen on grounding the project in the port city and in the latest development, the AP Tourism Authority has invited bids for appointment of project management consultants to oversee preparation of the detailed project report for refurbishment of the legendary aircraft carrier.
 
 Sources said the requirement for the project management consultants was floated last week and the department is keen on finding suitable personnel who can assist in vetting the proposed detailed project report, liaise with the Indian Navy, take care of the pre-towing preparation and also organise the crew while hauling the aircraft carrier to the port city. The consultants will be involved in assisting the department of tourism in preparing the detailed scope of work for preparation of the detailed project report and also assist in shortlisting the DPR consultants. The consultants will be involved in developing a staffing schedule and enrol sailors for the duration of the ships haulage between Mumbai and Kakinada and during anchorage at Kakinada until final berthing at Visakhapatnam, as per the bidding document. In addition to this, the consultants will also help in collection of memorabilia for the proposed museum aboard INS Viraat. Confirming the development, a senior tourism department official said, “The project is live.” He said that the DPR is to prepare plan for civil works and refurbishment in INS Viraat. Incidentally, during a visit last month, tourism secretary N Srikanth too had mentioned that the government is looking to convert the aircraft carrier into a tourist attraction under public private partnership mode. He had said that the department had been proposing 15 integrated projects in order to get partners under the PPP mode. Srikanth said if the ministry of defence accepted the proposal, then the aicraft carrier would be placed at a special jetty near Bheemili under the Sagaramala project.
 
 The decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat has served in the Indian Navy between 1987-2016 and with the Royal Navy as HMS Hermes between 1959 and 1987. The AP government intends to preserve the ship as a floating museum in addition to having a convention centre with commercial spaces to attract tourists to the port city.
 
 
