AJMER: The next Mahant (main priest) of the   in Pushkar will be decided by the court of   department. Till then, the managing committee constitute by district administration will run the functions of temple. The decision was taken on Friday on the occasion of the 12th day of previous Mahant’s death in a car accident and about 600 saints from across the country gathered for this ritual.

 Looking to the claims and counter claims for next Mahant, heavy police force was deployed in Pushkar as there was a heated argument among different sects of sadhus. Additional force was also kept in reserve to control the situation. Looking to the mounting pressure of such sects, district administration also shifted the venue of feast from temple premises to   behind the temple. The Dakshina (offering) after the feast was also given by the district administration which was Rs. 50 per sadhu in an envelope. Sadhus showed protest on the meek offering and said that they attended the ritual of feast as a part of religion but only got Rs 50 as Dakshina.
 
 Tension prevailed in Pushkar since yesterday and different groups along with sects of saints put their claims for the next Mahant of the temple. District collector and head of the managing committee of the temple,   announced that every group or sect should put their claim in court of Rajasthan Devsthan department and also submit their papers so that court will decide the right candidate for next Mahant. The announcement brought whispers in different groups of saints but looking to the deployment of heavy police, they accepted the decision.
 
 Goyal also said that till the appointment of next Mahant, managing committee of the temple will look after day to day functioning of the temple and there will also be separate register to record the offering in the temple every day. The committee will also look after the facilities to devotees.
 
 After the announcement, saints were prepared to participate in the ritual of feats but the district administration shifted the venue from temple premises to Jat Dharamshala.
 
 “Saints were not satisfied but they remain silent on this issue,” said a source. He said that different groups planned to put their claims in Devsthan department so that their representative gets the chance to be next Mahant.
 
 But experts stated that process to decide on the next Mahant will take one to two year and till then, the managing committee will prepare a road map to provide facilities to devotees coming to the temple.
 
