KOLKATA: A 21-year-old youth was killed and five others, including a police constable, were injured when a bus rammed into   on the   on the College Street-Surya Sen Street crossing on Monday evening. The driver of the Howrah-Raja Bazar bus has been impounded.

 According to witnesses, around 6pm, the driver of the bus lost control while taking a right turn on Surya Sen Street from College Street and ran on the pavement. It three book stalls and several pedestrians. One was killed on the spot while the others were injured. They were rushed to Kakra Medical College and Hospital where the youth, identified as Monirul Sardar, was declared brought dead.
 
 Sardar who ran a book stall in Canning (South 24-Parganas) used to frequent College Street from where he bought books on wholesale. On Monday as well, Sardar had come to buy books. He was standing in front a book stall when the bus ran over him.
 
 “The driver did not slow down even while taking the right turn. He lost control and rammed into the book stalls. We have been demanding a speed breaker at the turning as similar accidents have taken place earlier also,” said Manik Jana, a book stall owner.
 
 Constable Sanjay Pathak (51) of Muchipara Police Station was walking towards the police station when he was knocked down. The bleeding constable was immediately rushed to the hospital. After primary treatment he was shifted to Calcutta Medical College with multiple fractures and his condition remains serious.
 
 “I was sitting inside the stall when suddenly the bus rammed into it. I ducked under a bookshelf. Thankfully there were no customers standing in front. My husband was standing outside the stall,” said Shipra Saha who had a narrow escape.
 
 Shipra’s husband Surjit escaped with minor injuries to his hands, for which he received primary treatment and was discharged along with a pedestrian Debajit Poddar. Ganesh Manna of Andul and Parbhat Saha of Uttarpara also recieved preliminary treatment and the duo is out of danger.
 
 
