NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Wednesday asked finance ministry officials to expedite the task of activating about seven crore dormant Jan Dhan bank accounts to ensure that no one is deprived of getting government benefits, sources said.

 The accounts have become dormant because of no transaction and these include zero balance accounts as well. According to reports, finance minister   had recently said that zero balance accounts have come down to 20% from 77% in three years. Government data show 30.26 crore   have been opened till September 20.
 
 Sources said the department of financial services shared a detailed presentation on the Jan Dhan accounts, including the dormant ones, during the monthly web-based interaction of the PM with secretaries and state chief secretaries (known as PRAGATI) on Wednesday. The department said it has prepared a detailed plan to activate the dormant accounts.
 
 Active Jan Dhan accounts are part of the government’s plan to wean away individuals from using cash and move to a “lesscash” and “more digital” economy, which was touted as one of the reasons for demonetising the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, a move that has faced strong criticism from Modi’s opponents.
 
 TOI has learnt that when the department mentioned how huge number of people having these accounts have got the insurance compensation quickly, Modi asked the officials to make the number public so that people are made aware of the benefits of this initiative.
 
 “The PM asked the secretary, financial services, to look at ways to increase the use of RuPay debit cards that have been issued to Jan Dhan account holders. The PM was briefed on the relief that has been received by the Jan Dhan account holders, as part of the insurance provisions that are linked to these accounts,” a release issued by the   said.
 
 Officials said the PM asked officials of the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities to visit office complexes, toilets at toll plazas and other public places to find how accessible these are for people with disabilities. The government has undertaken an initiative named   (Accessible India Campaign) for the “divyang”. The PM reviewed the progress of development of heritage cities by urban affairs ministry.
 
 PM Modi also reviewed the progress of nine infrastructure projects including the India Myanmar Friendship Bridge.
 
