Workplace  , these days, isn’t rare, albeit such cases are often buried and not discussed in public. Chennai-based filmmaker   is exploring this subject through her fifth film, 'But What Was She Wearing?' An actor, theatre artiste, writer and a director,   was working at a corporate for several years before she quit her job and took art full time. She is also heading a women-based community called   Making Films and Lime Soda Films. 'But What Was She Wearing?' is a feature-length documentary, which touches upon various fields like films, unorganised sectors, corporate, sports, law and order and startups. Her previous works were Pava, The Catalyst and Unearthing The Treasures of Ariyalur.

 “It is not that I picked a women-based issue just for the heck of it,” she begins, adding, “The film is based on some incidents that I have faced and a few of which other women have told me about. The problem is, we don’t know what happens when a case is registered — the steps a company should take, the way to approach police, etc. I have addressed both casual and benevolent sexism through this film. Things that are said as a joke sometimes come under sexual harassment cases. But it finally comes down to whether the girl is going to brush it under the carpet or not. How the victim reacts is actually her choice. I am currently looking into the start-up culture in Chennai. Once a group of people get funding, they start their business, but do they even think about implementing rules against sexual harassment under the Companies Act? I want this subject to be taken culturally. I am trying to cover this issue from all aspects.
 
 A major issue Vaishnavi points out is that there is a namesake committee in several companies. But do they have all the information they require? “They have a HR and a designated committee who are supposed to meet their employees and know what steps to take. But most of these companies have half-baked information and wait for things to hit the roof before they take action. A girl has to think so much before she approaches the higher officials, or go file an FIR, because at every point people only want her to shut up. She will be judged at every step and it becomes impossible for her to believe in herself. How many companies know that there needs to be an external member in their committee, who can either be a lawyer, activist or a head of an NGO. What about people like manual scavengers? Where do they go when they face harassment issues? This is not something that only happens at offices but can happen even at small scale industries and in unorganised sectors. I will be digging that aspect as well,” explains Vaishnavi.
 
 But did a lot of women come forward to speak about these issues? “Well, yes, many of them did. And some of them don’t want to reveal their identity because they still work there or work under that person. When women come and speak to me they start like this, ‘I don’t know if this amounts to sexual harassment.’ Well, any comment that is made not in regard of your job or is out of line can be reported,” she says. But there are also fake cases and a few positive ones where the women have got justice. “I am speaking to HRs and top corporate heads, who can give me a clear picture. Some of them have made changes at the policy level. So, I will be showing that as well. But most often that is not the case is what I believe,” she justifies.
 
 But why hasn’t she ever approached a producer for her films? “I am a no-nonsense person and cannot take someone poking their nose into my work. I have applied for a few grants and hope to raise seven lakhs, so that I can start shooting the film. There are people who believe in your movie and fund for the work. I will primarily be paying the crew. Post production requires some money, too. I want my movie to disturb people and make them think. This is not a movie that will make you feel good. It is supposed to bring changes and I am not trying to make it preachy. My movie is a mirror that will reflect what is happening in the society,” signs off Vaishnavi.
 
 
