PUNE: The   police are yet to find out why   Deepak Hande strangled his wife and two daughters before ending his life at his   in Katraj in the early hours of Sunday.
The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Monday started recording the statements of Hande's neighbours, but could not record the statement of his brother and other relatives because they had gone to Alandi to perform post-funeral rituals.
 
 “We shall record the statements of the family members later because they are currently in grief,“ said senior inspector   of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.
 
 On Sunday, 42-year-old Hande was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his house. His wife Swati (35) and younger daughter Vaishnavi (12) were found dead in the bedroom, while elder daughter Tejas (15) was found dead on a bed in the living room.
 
 Hande had allegedly strangled them to death with a wire and later ended his life. The police found a single-page suicide note written by Hande.Addressed to his parents, uncles and aunts, it stated, “We were destined to live only this much. No one is responsible for our act.“
 
 Gaikwad said prima facie investigations revealed that Hande owed Rs64,000 to his friends. “The loan amount was not so big that Hande could not return it. We are probing if there was any other reason behind Hande's decision,“ he said. Hande's neighbhour, Ganesh Dhere, told TOI that he or other neighbours were not aware of Hande family facing any financial trouble.“Hande's wife ran a beauty parlour.She also used to work as a gym instructor in the morning,“ Dhere said.
 
 He said Hande was a cool person. He hardly mixed with others. On holidays, he used to sit before his computer and surf the internet.
 
 “On Saturday night, I had met Hande's elder daughter, Tejas, outside our house. She was returning after walking her dog,“ Dhere said adding, both she and her younger sister were good in studies. “They used to visit my home daily to play with my child,“ he said.
 
 Senior inspector Gaikwad said the police would register the offence of murder against Hande after recording the statements of his neighbours and his relatives.
 
