PATNA: Designated as the priority sector wing of the state government, the   department has spent only 30% of the plan fund till the start of the second month of the fourth quarter of the current fiscal. With less than two months left, the anxiety level owing to the low expenditure is so acute that a few officials concerned prefer not to talk about it.

 “It is not so beautiful to talk about,” said an agriculture department official, adding, “There is anxiety in the department to improve our capability and performance.”
 
 As the planning and development department put it, the agriculture department could spend around 30% till February 3. Against the revised plan outlay of Rs1,981.35 crore, the department has managed to spend only Rs597.42 crore. The 30% expenditure during 2016-17 is 3% more than in the 2015-16 fiscal around the same period.
 
 Curiously, 14 of the 41 departments has less than 30% expenditure of the plan fund. Chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh would review the department-wise expenditure on February 9. He is expected to define ways and means to increase the overall state expenditure which stands at 43.23% and is 15% less than the corresponding figure in the last fiscal around the same time.
 
 Agriculture department principal secretary Sudhir Kumar has put every district under the charge of either joint director or deputy director rank officials and has also asked them to reactivate their respective “district and below formations” to the village level to push the expenditure to the maximum in the next two months. “This system was in place for the last four years, but has been galvanized to action in the face of the crisis,” an official said.
 
 In the process, the department would be hard-pressed to augment expenditure in the 12 centrally sponsored schemes, which include Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, National Food Security Mission, National Horticulture Mission, PM Krishi Sinchai Yojana, Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture, National Mission on Agriculture Extension and Technology, among others. The central and state share of the funds earmarked for them is in the ratio of 60:40. 
 
 Since the department was designated as priority sector wing in 2006-07, there has not been lack of resources. The nub of the problem is that the field offices have ‘not yet adapted’ to the new route of the funds flow in the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode that has come about under the present dispensation at the Centre, sources said, adding that the switchover to the new mode would be accomplished soon. 
 
 
