In Varanasi, for the promotion of their film ' ', actors   and  , began their visit on a spiritual note,recently. Heading to Sankat Mochan Temple for darshan, the actors were swarmed with fans on their arrival. "Since we think Lord Hanuman is the first commando, we sought his blessings," said Vidyut who was welcomed with flowers and chocolates by some of his female fans in the city.

  The next destination of the actors was the Dashashwamedh Ghat where they enjoyed an hour-long boat ride in the Ganga before performing the Ganga Arti along with the personnel of the 95th Battalion of the   (CRPF). The jawans were really happy to find the actors, along with director Deven Bhojani, and producer Vipul Shah in their midst and clicked selfies with them and took their autographs. "This was our way of acknowledging their contribution in keeping us safe," said Vidyut, who himself is the son of an army officer.
 
  
  Vidyut shaking hands with a jawan of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) 
 
 
  Adah, who has a strong Banaras connect, was elated to spend some time in the city. "My grandfather Pt MSM Sharma, a priest, lived here. My father, who grew up in Banaras, used to tell us a lot about the ghats and the temples, which I could experience this time. I have been here a few years ago with the team of the film 1920 but it was a flying visit, so could not see much of the city then," she said.
 
  Even for Vidyut, Banaras is a familiar place. The actor, who has been here earlier in connection with the promotion of one of his films, said, "Banaras is a place which I always recommend to my friends, especially foreigners. The city has a different aura altogether and anyone who visits it once likes to come here again."
 
  The actor, who is trained in martial arts, says, "It is tough to make a place in   if you are from a non-filmi background. Only if you have some extra talent then only you can stand out and in my case it was my training in martial arts that helped in films. Action as a genre is something which I enjoy doing."
 
  
  The cast and crew of the film performed Ganga aarti
 
 
  Vidyut added, "I have no fear of being typecast as I feel that the kind of action I do, nobody has done it before. I believe that if you are excellent in anything, you should continue to do that and raise the benchmark with each new project. As an actor, it has given me the opportunity to work with the best talent of the country. Recently, I have completed a film 'Yaara' with Tigmanshu Dhulia and currently also working on a project 'Baadshaho' directed by Milan Luthria set in Rajasthan."
 
 
  
  Time for some shopping for Adah and Vidyut
 
  Vidyut, feels that as an action hero, one is expected to follow a disciplined life. "A lot of people claim that they get up at 4 am, which I feel is a farce. If you return at 2 am after a shoot then how can you get up so early? One needs some hours of sleep for the mind and body to function properly. Discipline for me is doing what I am expected to do. No matter what time I get up, I follow a specific regimen. As far as partying is concerned, I believe it never stands in the way of being disciplined. You miss out on lot of amazing people if you don’t party," he says.
 
  Vidyut, who has been in a relationship with actor  , in the past said, "It is not necessary that any kind of bitter fights or differences end a relationship. There are instances when people grow at amazing paces and in different directions that leads to an end of a relationship. This is what happened in our case. At the moment I am single and enjoying every bit of it. I am able to find time to do what I love and spend time with my mother. In fact, my mother has started saying that it is high time for me to find a girlfriend."
 
 
  
  The actors during the boat ride
 
 
 
