UDUPI: The district bandh called to protest collection of toll on the national highway failed to evoke good response on Monday. 

 However,   and Padubidri shut completely in support of the bandh, called by   and many other organizations.
 
 Some buses stayed off roads and schools remained shut. Barring these, Udupi city functioned normally. Shops and business establishments were open, city and   buses plied as usual, and buses on Udupi-Karkala route ran smoothly.
 
 Buses plying from the highway on  ,   were stopped by protesters.
 
 Udupi tahsildar   said the vehicles registered in Udupi district (starting with KA-20) and owned by people in the 5-km radius of the toll plaza have been exempted from paying toll until February 25. He said this concession was decided after he spoke to officials of Navayuga, a construction major that's building the highway.
 
 The tahsildar said the deputy commissioner, who is away in Bengaluru, is expected to make a major announcement on the highway toll issue.
 
 The district administration had ramped up police presence in the district for the bandh, besides imposing prohibitory orders in the 2-km radius of toll plaza and at Hejamady toll gate from February 10 to February 15. Assistant superintendent of police Vishnuvardhan said six inspectors and 25 sub-inspectors led a team of 450 police personnel to ensure the city remained peaceful during the bandh.
 
 A large number of protesters who had gathered at Padubidri started to march towards Hejamady, giving cops some anxious moments. The district administration, however, brought the situation under control.
 
 Samiti president Pratap Shetty said they were not against the toll as such, but were worried about the safety of residents and motorists using the highway. "Accidents are increasing by the day. Roads aren't pedestrian-friendly. The national highway cuts through many localities dotted with schools and hospitals. We are worried about the safety of children," he added.
 
 Shankar, an engineer with Navayuga, said the toll exemption applies to hired vehicles too.
 
 
