LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: As ego tussles and haggling over seats threaten to torpedo the 
  ,   jumped in to dispatch her personal emissary to Lucknow for talks with UP chief minister  .

 The bid to salvage the situation came after 
  of 210 candidates, including nine seats held by the   and the seats falling in the Gandhi borough of Amethi and Rae Bareli, a clear no-go area if an alliance is to come about.
 
 SP sources said the emissary — Dheeraj — is lodged in a Lucknow hotel and waiting for a call from the chief minister. Congress leaders confirmed Priyanka’s intervention but did not provide details on the emissary.
 
 As uncertainty mounted, the Congress candidly admitted there was a breakdown in talks but blamed Akhilesh Yadav for going back on his commitment. “This alliance was concluded earlier with none other than SP national president Akhilesh Yadav and leaders of the Congress, and now again we are getting in touch with Akhilesh,” AICC spokesman Ajay Maken told the media.
 
 After looking close to striking a deal, Akhilesh appears to have clammed up, with some 11 text messages from Priyanka understood to have gone unanswered. The view in Lucknow is that his recent victory in the SP internal battle has boosted the CM’s confidence and he is no longer willing to consider parting with a large number of seats.
 
 There was also speculation that a meeting between Congress leader   and Akhilesh, which the SP camp was expecting, seemed to have fallen through. This did not go down well with the Samajwadi camp, which has been emboldened by its success in playing the brinksmanship game to turn the tables on SP patriarch Mulayam Singh and the party elders.
 
 As the alliance hung in balance amid indications that AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad could dash to Lucknow on Saturday morning, the Congress seemed stunned by the last-minute roadblock in what many felt was a done deal.
 
 Top AICC sources said SP had agreed to leave 100 seats for the Congress but the Samajwadis were now having a rethink that the number was too high for the struggling partner. If the deal falls through, it would be a serious setback for the Congress as Rahul had undertaken a major road yatra through UP to boost the party’s prospects.
 
 Also, having pitched the tie-up as a major effort to sew up a “secular alliance” to keep BJP out, the Congress faces the possibility of being ruthlessly worsted by Akhilesh while Rahul’s leadership attracts adverse comment yet again.
 
 However, there were a couple of reasons cited which betrayed a lack of confidence among the allies-in-the-making.
 
 SP sources said Akhilesh wanted Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi to come to Lucknow to announce the alliance and launch the joint campaign, but this did not draw a positive response from the Congress.
 
 Another provocation was reported to be the Congress’s decision to suddenly hike its demand from 103 seats on Thursday to 138 on Friday.
 
 Perhaps looking to rub it in that it was the Congress that needed the alliance more, Akhilesh announced he would release the party manifesto on January 22 while holding back distribution of posters featuring Akhilesh and Rahul.
 
 A failure to stitch the alliance would hurt the Congress, presenting it with a scenario where it could be wiped out in the polls.
 
 The Samajwadi Party was also expecting to partner the Congress to gain the support of a majority of Muslim votes, which are also being wooed by the rival BSP.
 
 However, the prospect of a four-cornered fight — which would ensure that there is no consolidation of votes across rival camps — leaves BJP comfortable.
 
 Maken termed as “unfortunate” SP’s declaration of nine candidates on seats held by the Congress. “Obviously, we were expecting those seats... technical details which were agreed upon and concluded upon between Akhilesh and Congress leaders should be honoured,” he added.
 
 
