GHAZIABAD: The National Green Tribunal on Thursday levied a fine of Rs 10,000 on the   for failing to comply with its order to remove encroachments from the   drain. The green court also issued summons to the GDA vice-chairperson or the secretary and municipal commissioner to be present on the next date of hearing, July 11, to explain the corporation’s failure to comply with its order. Goaded by the   fine and summons, the GMC on Friday carried out a drive to clear the drain in Maharajpur of encroachments.

 The case dates back to October last year when a Maharajpur resident, Hazi Aarif, filed a petition with the NGT seeking to clear the ramp built by commercial establishments right on the Sahibabad drain. It was alleged in the petition that a concrete structure had come up on the drain, which was inhibiting the flow of the drain, resulting in overflow of drain water. The court on October 7, 2016, had issued orders to remove the encroachment and imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh each on seven commercial establishments who were guilty of encroachment out of which Rs 3 lakh was to be given to the petitioner, Hazi Aarif. However, the amount was collected by the GMC but not paid to the petitioner.
 
 Aarif said, “The GMC then carried out the anti-encroachment drive over the drain for the sake of it but there was not much change on the ground. With the monsoon having arrived this year in early July, residents of Maharajpur and Brij Vihar, are again going to have a tough time because of the encroachments. So the court on Thursday imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on GMC.”
 
 C P Singh, municipal commissioner, said, “In compliance with Thursday’s NGT order we carried out an anti-encroachment drive over the drain which will continue for the next few days and by July 11 we will file a compliance report to the court.”
 
 Explaining the importance of the Sahibabad drain, environmentalist Sushil Raghav said, “This 35-km drain, which passes through  , plays an important role in flushing out industrial and civic waste from trans-Hindon colonies and if the flow is inhibited it will spill over to the colonies. Since the width of this drain is 100 feet, commercial establishments along the drain covered it with a concrete structure to make space for their parking lot in connivance with GMC officials.”
 
 
