GURUGRAM: Almost half of the 202   contesting the   elections this time have not studied beyond Class 10. Eighty of those hoping to be picked as a councillor have not studied beyond their first board exam. Another 58 have completed Plus 2 but not gone beyond that. 

 The Haryana government has made it mandatory that the minimum educational   for a general category candidate should be Class 10. In case of women candidates or those belonging to the scheduled caste category, the minimum qualification should be Class VIII, while for women of the scheduled caste category, it should be Class V. 
 
 There are around five former councillors who are unable to contest MCG polls this time because they do not meet the required qualification. There are also others like Nisha Singh — a graduate from London School of Economics and the most qualified among the councillors — who is unable to contest polls this time as she is facing charges of rioting and attempt to murder after being arrested in 2015 for protesting against a demolition drive. 
 
 Some of these councillors, though, are ensuring that their children and other family members are better   to replace them . 
 
 “When we contested the   in 2011, the education clause was not there and anybody who wished to contest was able to do so. However, this clause was introduced mid-term, and now we are unable to contest despite having done so much work in our ward. Since I do not want my effort to go waste, I have asked my daughter-in-law to contest the polls instead of me, and I hope we would win,” said a former councillor, who didn’t want to be named.
 
 The worrying bit is that the next mayor of the city too would perhaps not be that educated. The post of the mayor this time is reserved for a woman and that too from the schedule caste category. In SC category, the candidate has to be just a Class V passout to contest from the seat reserved for SC (women).
 
 “There are three names doing the rounds for the post of mayor and barring one, the rest are hardly literate and it is a matter of dishonour for Gurgaon,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity
 
 Kuldeep Singh Bohra, the independent candidate from ward 31, is one of the very few candidates who has completed both LLB (bachelors of laws) and LLM (masters of laws). 
 
 According to Kuldeep, education is very important but the candidate should also have leadership skills and have experience of working among people.“It is very important that the residents of a place like Gurgaon are represented by those who are educated and are have the same thought process. I feel more and more educated people should come forward and contest such elections. However, education alone will not suffice and the candidate should also have some experience of working at the grassroot level,” said Kuldeep. 
 
