CHENNAI: It's well past midnight, but   is painstakingly embellishing a painting which has a stunning interplay of  .

 She has no plans to sleep She has no plans to sleep yet, though she has to get up at dawn to prepare tiffin for her children and leave for work.One among the few disciples, proponent and teacher of the ancient  , she juggles between the roles of a housewife, a working woman and an artist-that too against all odds.
 
 Sulochana, 43, came to Chennai to stay with her husband  ,44, in 2000. Married at a young age, she stayed for around two decades at a small hamlet in Darbhanga district of Bihar with her husband's family before moving to the city. The couple now has two daughters and a son. While her husband is a private sector employee, Sulochana works at a boutique.
 
 She learned -or perhaps, was coaxed to learn in the face of abject poverty--the traditional art from an unlettered aunt in Jitwarpur village in Madhubani district of Bihar. “My uncle used to wonder how to secure finances for keeping the kitchen fire burning. He encouraged my aunt to teach this art so that we all could earn some money , even if it was a pittance,“ she says.
 
 Starting from drawing patterns on freshly cow dung plastered floors, she slowly started drawing the art form from wooden twigs and nibs in greeting cards in the early 1990s. She now paints on canvas, paper, walls and fabrics.
 
 “Money , was but an incentive at best. Never the aim,“ says Sulochana, who was hooked to the art form, finding it to be cathartic in the patriarchal and largely feudal structure. “Those days women going to colleges, much less work, was a taboo. I received 50paisa as my first payment and never looked back since,“ she says. The art instilled in her the confidence to complete graduation.
 
 According to experts, the art which originiated in the Madhubani district of Bihar, celebrates everything, from the revered to the mundane, and from the manifest to the arcane tantric symbols. “Marriages, social events, philosophical reflections, spirituality...all become a theme in Madhubani art,“ she says adding, “every marriage in the Mithila speaking region of North Bihar tries to mirror the tradition of Lord Ram's marriage to Sita.“
 
 But choice for Sulochana, who gets merely two days off in a month from the grueling working hours, is but limited.“Without any support, I cannot keep the legacy of the art alive. I wish I could at least teach the art to willing students. But I do know that by the time I can afford the luxury of pursuing it full time, it will be too late,“ she says.
 
