CHENNAI: If it was an agonising wait last year, this year has been no different for thousands of non-Tamil students in the state. Until Tuesday, on the eve of the   that begin with the language paper, only 2,939 candidates had availed themselves of the exemption from the   after the Madras high court's February 27 order.

 Late in the evening, district education officers (DEOs) in many districts held meetings with school headmasters and said students who wished to write in the language of their choice would be allowed to do so.
 
 The linguistic minorities forum claimed the education department had not released official orders to DEOs after the court's ruling and several thousand students remained confused.
 
 The forum claimed that there were at least 8,000 nonTamil speaking students in TN, while legal experts said about 10,000 students in government Telugu-medium schools and aided schools would be hit.
 
 “We requested the education department officials several times to release orders and were assured that they would do so. But, it has been a horrid wait for a few thousand students who only got clarity on the eve of the exam,“ said Malikul Azeez, secretary of the   and president of the  .
 
 A headmaster of a government school in Krishnagiri district said they were told by the DEO to allow all non-Tamil students to write in the language of their choice. “Last year also, the exemption for many was given at the last minute and question papers had been arranged. We are going ahead this year trusting that the question papers would be kept ready for the students,“ he said.
 
 The Madras high court's first bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh, which on February 27 granted the relief on a batch of petitions, was informed on Tuesday that only 2,939 had got exemption. When counsel for some students and schools made a demand for exemption, the bench said it was for the government to handle the issue.
 
 “We make it clear that it is for the students or schools concerned to apply to authorities, if they have not applied earlier as per the order dated February 27. If fresh application seeking exemption is made, the authorities would exercise discretion and consider the applications in accordance with law and take a decision one way or the other,“ it said.
 
 The bench said the authorities must exempt those students who had sought exemption from taking Tamil examination for 2016-17 on reasonable grounds, either individually or through their schools. “We are of the view that it will be suffice to clarify that the earlier interim order passed by this court dated February 27, has taken adequate care of the anxieties and apprehensions expressed. Such anxieties and apprehensions have also been out to rest as 2,939 students.“
 
