AHMEDABAD: Bihar ATS on Thursday nabbed July 2008   accused,  , a resident of Modern Duplex in Juhapura, Fatehwadi from Gaya. Tauseef was involved in the conspiracy and had attended several secret meetings with the perpetrators of the serial blasts which killed 56 people and rendered more than 200 injured.

 Gujarat ATS sources said Bihar ATS has arrested some more suspected terrorists while the hunt for another is on. “It seems that the Indian Mujahideen was regrouping after the arrest of Yasin Bhatkal in 2013. They were planning a terror attack in Bihar,” said a senior Gujarat ATS official.
 
  “Tauseef’s family hails from Maharashtra but have settled in Ahmedabad since long. Tauseef who is an engineer and active member of banned SIMI had studied in Amalner of Maharashtra and used to work with a reputed software company here. Later, he also worked as teacher in another reputed educational institute in the city,” an ATS source informed. 
 
 ATS officials said Tauseef used to run English speaking classes in Gaya, and had links with Mujeeb Shaikh- an accused in the  , who was shot dead in an alleged encounter by MP police on the outskirts of Bhopal last year.
 
  “Tauseef’s father,  , died long ago. His sisters are married and two brothers are running tuition classes,” said an ATS official.
 
 Meanwhile, a team of Gujarat ATS landed in Gaya to take custody of Tauseef, and is expected return late on Thursday night.
 
 Tauseef is the 80th out of 95 accused in the July 2008 serial blasts case. Fifteen accused are still absconding in the case, including Bhatkhal brothesr Riyaz and Iqbal and Abdul Subhan alias Taukeer who is also believed to be one of the masterminds of the serial blast and a close aide of Bhatkal brothers.
 
 Gujarat ATS and crime branch investigators said they suspect Tauseef was in touch with Yasin Bhatkal, who was later arrested in 2013 from Indo- Nepal border and sentenced to gallows along with four others in the Dilsukhnagar blast case in Hyderabad.
 
 “Tauseef will be handed over to the city crime branch for further interrogation and legal process,” said an ATS official.
 
