NAGPUR: The revaluation facility for students seems to be only favouring the Nagpur Uuniversity. Fresh cases show either the revaluation results came very late, as long as a year, or drastic fall in marks awarded afterwards. 

 Students are more upset because many of them are unable to appear in their current semester exam despite passing in revaluation. 
 
 Around 10 engineering students from different city colleges are left in the lurch as they were rendered ineligible for fifth semester since their revaluation results came after nearly five months. “We had challenged the evaluation of second semester papers held in Summer 2016. The result came in Winter 2016 just before the winter exam. Opting for revaluation and paying the additional fee has proved futile. The pass result is of no use,” they said.
 
 They added that some of their classmates had applied for revaluation of in winter 2015 but the results were declared in winter 2016. 
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty blamed the colleges and to some extent the students. 
 
 “Until now, colleges used to accept revaluation form and DD till a month from the announcement of results. There was no proper system. When I took over, I received a lot of complaints. Then I made it compulsory for students to apply for revaluation within five days of results and three days for college to submit the application in the exam section,” Khaty said.
 
 Yet, he said, the exam section has expedited revaluation results eversince he took over. 
 
 “All revaluation results of law faculty but first semester have been declared. Out of the over 1,000 exams conducted by NU, mostly revaluation requests are received only for 200 or 300 engineering, law and management exams. 
 
 “We had declared the revaluation results on November 25 last year and exam forms of students eligible as per ordinance were received till November 28, a day before exam. But, students are not informed by the colleges.”
 
 He said revaluation results are sensitive and thus can’t be put online. “There is possibility of errors and the data too is less,” he said.
 
 “It is the duty of the college and the principal to inform students as soon as results are declared,” he said.
 
 In another case, a law student’s marks were cut from 33 to 18 after revaluation.
 
 “This is a fabulous system adopted by   to deter students from opting the revaluation facility. I think the university is giving clearing message. If marks are cut like this, no one would use the option out of fear now,” the law student’s father told TOI.
 
 On this, Khaty said the case would be referred to   (DAC). 
 
