THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Two men on a motorcycle brutally attacked a youth at a busy junction in daylight and none of the witnesses alerted the police.

 The attacked youth, identified on Sunday as  , too, did not report the incident. Instead, the culprits and the attacked decided to hush it up over a compensation of Rs 25,000. Though the incident occurred at   on the busy   in Thiruvananthapuram district on September 13, the police came to know about it nine days later, after someone forwarded a video clip of the attack to the superintendent of rural police,  , on Friday.
 
 Even as the video-caught on a closed-circuit camera installed at a shop close to the scene-went viral, police registered a case suo motu, and launched a hunt for the two suspects, Ananthu and his relative Sreekuttan, who had by then, were on the run.
 
 The visuals showed the men, Ananthu, with Sreekuttan on pillion, arriving at the junction at 4.50pm, and riding in circles, causing nuisance to the traffic. As they took the fourth circle, their two-wheeler blocked the way of Sudheer, also on a bike.
 
 A few seconds later, Sudheer rides away, but abruptly stops. Ananthu completes a fifth full circle on the road and waylays Sudheer, and two bikers were seen in an apparently heated argument, which ends in a brutal attack on Sudheer, who had fallen on the road.
 
 Onlookers, who initially watched the attack in silence, later intervened. The men were seen trying to attack Sudheer, who was shifted to a shop verandah from the road.
 
 Attingal circle inspector M Anilkumar said Sudheer, who was initially evading calls from the police, turned up at the station late on Sunday evening and gave his statement. “Both parties hail from the same neighbourhood.They had settled the issue for Rs25,000,“ the officer said.
 
 Sreekuttan, police said, has a criminal background with two cases against him.One was for assaulting a conductor aboard a bus and the other pertaining to an attack on a cop, Shaji, residing in Chirayinkeezh.
 
 “His uncle Vaisakh is also a known criminal,“ the officer said.
 
 Ananthu used to work in the Middle East.
 
 The incident reminded many of a similar one at Vakkom, some 12km from Mudapuram, on January 31, 2016. The Vakkom incident, which had claimed the life of 23-year-old Shabeer, too came to light after a video of the brutality went viral.
 
