GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat   Association is soon going to become a   which will be run by a trust. Currently , the association is an   and does not have any legal identity . The new avatar of the IAS officers' association will have broad objectives like welfare of members and their families, helping in service matters, and conducting social welfare activities. The body has initiated the process of registration and their constitution will borrow the best from other state IAS associations as well as from the central association of IAS officers.

 Arvind Agrawal, ACS, forest and environment, who is also the president of the state IAS officers' association and the Monday tea club of officers, when asked, said, “All of us felt the need of paying more attention to the state IAS officers association's welfare activities like in many other states and in the central civil and administrative services officers association.“
 
 Agrawal added, “ At present, our association does not have any legal identity , which limits the possible scope of activities. So, our committee has decided to get the association registered as a trust and welfare society.“
 
 Agrawal said that they had studied the formats of IAS officers' associations in Maharashtra and other states, as also the central association of officers.
 
 “We have prepared draft of the scope of the associa tion which will be registered shortly ,“ he added.
 
 Speaking about the limitations the association suffered due to lack of registration, Agrawal said, “ At present we could only organize garba events (that too by IAS officers' wives association), and one or two farewell events. Through the new registered association we aim to institutionalize these activities, as many officers do not get chance to meet each other for years.“
 
 Agrawal said about objectives of the registered association, “The association will now create a social welfare fund in which officers will contribute to fund welfare of families of martyrs from Gujarat belonging to various defence and paramilitary forces. We have already started using social media to reach out to members of the association including retired officers.“
 
 
 
 
 It is known that during the tenure of   as chief minister of Gujarat, IAS officers had made a similar move to strengthen their association but officers who took the initiative of starting the state IAS officers' portal etc were reprimanded and the idea was dropped. Sources said that many fear that even this time the efforts of IAS officers to build a stronger organization will be scuttled.
 
 
