KOLKATA: Barely a week after the CBI quizzed   Mathew Samuel, the investigating agency is sending a team to his Kochi home to interrogate the prime witness in the sting operation. Reconstructing the sting operation, it has turned its focus on the nature of funding by Trinamool MP K D Singh's company Alchemist. 

 Singh, who has now stepped down from almost all the boards of directors of Alchemist group companies, was a Trinamool MP when the operation was commissioned. The Kolkata Police, which registered a case case against Singh and his son for allegedly duping Alchemist investors, said the group had funded the entire sting operation, mostly in cash. Even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday called Singh's nomination a "blunder", the police claimed they were trying to unearth his company's money trail and also finding out if the proceeds of crime were used to sponsor the sting.
 
 The CBI on Thursday went through Samuel's statements again to find out the funding pattern. According to sources, Tehelka had created a special corpus for story gathering with a large chunk being set aside for big stories. The payment for the sting operation in 2014 came from this fund. While Samuel apparently did not carry much cash on him, he was assisted by the company's Kolkata office. Whenever he was in need of cash, someone from the Alchemist office would allegedly hand it over to him. "I was a mere employee and was instructed about the Trinamool leaders I was to meet. I never even opened the cash packets before I gave them out," Samuel claimed. 
 
 In most cases, a TMC MP and another person, called Tiger, fixed Samuel's meetings with the leaders and informed him about the date a day before. The leaders allegedly caught on tape were handed out Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. About the source of the money, Sameul said, "I never went through their balance sheet. It is not possible for me to comment on that. But it must have been mentioned somewhere in the annual returns," he said.
 
 The FIR against Alchemist was lodged last week after investors in the company lodged complaints at the Bowbazar, Muchipara and Parnasree police stations after three Alchemist group firms allegedly cheated them out of over Rs 2.5 crore. The police then slapped charges for cheating and criminal breach of trust against Singh, his son Kumarjit and a director, Pawan Verma. 
 
