PUNE: Fifty   — mainly from areas which record a low voter turnout — will take steps to ensure an improved polling percentage in the   on February 21.

 A recent study commissioned by the state election commission, and conducted by the  , found that NIBM road, Balewadi, Vimannagar and Kothrud had low turnouts in the 2012 elections.
 
 With the SEC enlisting the housing societies to help increase voting percentage, the society members — mainly from NIBM road, Wanowrie, Salunke Vihar road and Fatimanagar, have decided to take the lead.
 
 They have decided to reach out first to the areas with low turnouts, and move to other parts of the city and  .
 
 There are 18,000 housing societies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 In this regard, the societies have also decided to ask their members take a pledge to vote, on Republic Day.
 
 “We are asking various society representatives to take the initiative and ensure their members go vote,” said Radhikesh Uttarwar, who started the ‘Pledge to Vote’ campaign.
 
 The first such meeting had participation from 50 societies, which resulted in 10,000-15,000 members deciding to take the pledge. The meetings are being held with the support of the department of cooperation, coordinates with society members from different parts of the city. More such meeting are planned, with the chairmen and secretaries of the societies seeking authorization letters.
 
 The members will also obtain the voters’ list from the civic bodies, and tally the names as per the wards. 
 
 “This is going to be a cumbersome process because many a time, the names and addresses will not match. With the four-member panel system, there is bound to be more confusion,” added Uttarwar.
 
 “We will urge each and every one to vote, provided their name is there,” said Col B C Joglekar (retd) from Salunke Vihar society, which has nearly 2,000 voters. 
 
 State election commissioner J S Sahariya is strongly in favour of housing societies taking on a more proactive role in the process. If all societies are active participants, Sahariya said, it would definitely help in improving the voting percentage. The SEC is aiming for 70% voting this time around. 
 
