VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government plans to station the world’s fastest turbo craft Tupolev TU-142 in the city as a museum on the lines of the INS Kursura Submarine Museum on Beach Road.

 The aircraft is currently in service and will be decommissioned within the next month.
 
 The department of tourism is taking measures to bring the maritime patrol and anti-submarine warfare aircraft to the city.
 
 A team of tourism officials went to Chennai on Monday to study the aircraft and will submit a report to the state government within the next 15 days. Once the report is submitted, the tourism department will approach the   to turn the aircraft into a tourist spot after decommissioning.
 
 Confirming this to TOI, tourism secretary N Srikanth said chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu was keen on the project. 
 
 “We will first examine the report and then take action. We will estimate the project cost and write a letter to the Union ministry of defence. The aircraft is under service now and is likely to be decommissioned within a month,” Srikanth said.
 
 Srikanth further said the project may not involve huge investment as it will be turned into a museum like the INS Kursura Submarine museum.
 
 Srikanth said the warfare aircraft was made by the Soviet Union and first introduced into the   in December 1972. It was demonstrated at several national and international airshows, he said.
 
 The general characteristics of TU-142 include maximum speed is 925km per hour. It has a cruise speed of 711km per hour. Its combat radius is 6,500km and service ceiling is 2,000 metres. The maximum take-off weight of the aircraft is 85,000kgs.
 
 Meanwhile, sources from the   (Vuda), which is in-charge of the INS Kursura Submarine project, said it has already the requisite land to host the TU-142 anti-submarine warfare aircraft, if the project is okayed by the state and Centre.
 
 A Vuda source said it currently had nearly 2 acres of land inside   along the beach. Vuda officials said about two acres of land is required for such museum projects. 
 
 “There has been no official communication between the tourism department and Vuda yet about the proposed museum project. It will be brought to the notice of Vuda once it gets all clearances,” a senior Vuda official told TOI.
 
