AURANGABAD: Several students and parents have criticised the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) for not considering their demand for allotting two more   centres in Marathwada while announcing a list of additional centres. 

 Since, Aurangabad is the only NEET centre for the whole of Marathwada, the stakeholders demanded for a centre each at Nanded and Latur. 
 
 Anticipating an increase in the number of candidates who will be writing the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this year, the   (CBSE) has announced an addition of 23 more cities to the list of 80 existing cities where the examination will be conducted. The decision to add more centres was decided by the MHRD, CBSE had said last week.
 
 Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Amravati and Satara are four Maharashtra cities that have found place in the list of additional centres for NEET. 
 
 Highlighting that NEET has been made mandatory for aspirants of health science courses, students and parents have been arguing that only one centre for eight districts of the region will pose many hardships before the candidates.
 
 NEET aspirants from Osmanabad, Latur and Nanded will have to travel all the way to Aurangabad, a distance ranging from 250km to 500km, to take the examination. 
 
 Scores of candidates from Marathwada will have to reach Aurangabad a day in advance as the test is scheduled in the morning. “Such hardships ahead of the crucial examination could have been avoided if the MHRD had little understanding about the issues faced by us,” said  , a mother of Class XII student from Latur. 
 
 Many candidates rued that reaching Aurangabad just for the exam would be sheer waste of time and energy. 
 
 “Instead of revising ahead of examinations, we have been forced to pay attention to uncessary things,” said a NEET aspirant from Latur. 
 
 Several parents also complained that they would have to shell out money towards accommodation and other expenses for the trip for their wards. 
 
 Scheduled on May 7, NEET is expected to be taken by thousands of students from Maharshtra this year. 
 
 Nationalist   (NCP) MLC Satish Chavan, who has been following the demand for more NEET centres for Marathwada, has taken up the issue with Maharashtra chief minister  . “The CM is positive about the demand for allotting more NEET centres in Marathwada and promised that he will convey the demand to the HRD minister Prakash Javadekar,” he said in a release.
 
 CBSE authorities could not be reached for comments. 
 
