BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah’s ambitious project to set up   in all 198 wards is unlikely to meet the August 15 deadline. While the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ), which is executing the project, is struggling to finalize their locations in several wards, work on only 38 of them has started.

 BBMP sources said the go ahead for canteen construction has been given only for 75 wards. “In many wards, canteen locations have been identified in playgrounds and parks. As per the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act and past high court directives, no construction is allowed in parks or playgrounds. The civic body is now worried that any attempt to go ahead with the construction might lead to legal hurdles. Another worry is opposition from residents of areas identified for canteens,” said a source.
 
 BS  , chief engineer (road infrastructure), BBMP, however, is confident of meeting the deadline. “I agree it’s a challenge to identify appropriate locations for canteens in 198 wards within 60 days. But we have expedited the process. Work is on in 38 wards and in some it’s almost over. In some wards, we are using precast technology. Every day at least five precast canteen units are reaching the city, and construction work will pick up speed in the coming days. Problems pertaining to their locations are being sorted out,” he said.
 
 A senior BBMP official said they were in talks with the Bengaluru urban district administration, BMTC, BWSSB and other civic agencies to get their land for Indira Canteens.
 
 Sources in the government, however, said the BBMP may ready only a few canteens by August 15, and all the 198 may be a reality only by October 2.
 
 Caterers yet to come on board
 
 Caterers who will cook food in centralized kitchens to come up in 27 assembly constituencies have been selected yet. The BBMP on Monday extended the time for finalizing tenders and signing the contract to July 24.  , chief engineer (road infrastructure), BBMP, said, “So far, 28 bidders have shown interest in taking up the project. Some bidders have sought time to study the modalities of food preparation and distribution from centralized kitchens to the wards.” he said.
 
