GALLE: After all the ugliness which preceded their 'reunion,' the Shastri-Kohli combine couldn't have chosen a more scenic cricket ground to renew their partnership. One moment at nets at the Galle International Stadium on the eve of the first Test showed the reignition of the chemistry between India's captain and new coach.

 After taking a few throw-downs from Raghavendra and assistant coach Sanjay Bangar,   looked satisfied that he was hitting the ball beautifully. He nodded in the affirmative after receiving a look from Shastri which suggested, "Ready to go?"
 
 Later, the captain and coach were seen in deep discussion, with   looking on at the picturesque stadium, which is nestled below a historical fort, built by the Portuguese in 1588 and developed by the Dutch in the 16th century.
 
 The sight of a clock tower overlooking the ground, and the huge waves of the Indian Ocean splashing the rocks add to the charm of this venue, which was destroyed by the tsunami in 2004 before cricket greats Shane Warne and Ian Botham helped rebuild the ground.
 
 The massive fort, however, will also remind the coach and captain how strong a bastion Galle has been for the Lankans. It's a citadel which has hardly been breached by rival teams. Since Test cricket began here 18 years ago, the hosts have won 16 times at this venue, their last four being on the trot. A track which can aid turn viciously has allowed the 'spin kings' like Muttiah Muralitharan (111 wickets in 15 Tests @18.50) and   (93 wickets in 16 Tests @22.97) to wreak havoc on batsmen.
 
 Shastri, Kohli, and almost all the Indian batsmen would have a fair idea of what's in store here this week. On their last visit here in 2015, they collapsed to 112 all out when they had only 176 to chase in the final innings. The wrecker-in-chief on that occasion was Herath, who took seven for 48, and is now the makeshift captain of the Lankan team in the absence of new Test skipper  , whose 162 triggered the remarkable comeback for the hosts. It was a disappointing defeat, but it sparked a revival which saw India bounce back superbly to win the next two Tests in Colombo and clinch the series 2-1.
 
 This time, though, the Indians would be itching to make up for that defeat. While Kohli has his own reasons to be motivated after all the noise over his involvement in previous coach Anil Kumble's ouster, openers Shikhar Dhawan and Abhinav Mukund would be keen to show that they're good enough to be the first choice, even as Rohit resumes his journey to prove himself a valuable Test player.
 
 Set to play three spinners in Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja and Chinaman Kuldeep Yadav, India look better equipped in the spin department this time even as Lanka will again depend on the fingers of Herath, who might be left with too much on his plate due to the additional burden of captaincy. The 39-year-old will hope the likes of Diruwan Perera (off-spinner) and Pushpakumara (left-arm spinner) provide good support from the other end.
 
