KOCHI: What other time is better than the   to crack open a cold beer? With the  , beer consumption has increased in the city. The bars have been witnessing an increasing number of customers who drop by for a sip in the afternoons to slake their thirst.

 In Ernakulam, beer cartons have been flying off the shelves of   and tit has not been able to meet the rising demand. Bars, which used to order 100 cartons, have now been demanding 500-600 cartons, said a Bevco official.
 
 He said Bevco has been capping supplies to ensure that everyone gets their share. The demand varies for different brands and some have no qualms about booking cartons in advance, the official added.
 
 "Normally we buy 40 cartons of beer, which we sell off by the end of the day. But this year, February onwards, we have been selling at least 50 cartons a day. On some days it goes up to 60," said Sugunan PK, a bartender at a beer and wine parlour.
 
 Normally, the   (Bevco) witnesses a spike in beer sales from mid-March to May. As of February 20, Bevco has recorded sales of 9.92 lakh cartons of beer, which is just 2.35 lakh short of sales during the entire month of January, said Bevco's managing director, H Venkatesh.
 
 Following the demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in November 2016, bars have been witnessing a surge in the number of people swiping cards as well.
 
 "Of late, more people have been using their cards. Earlier, they used to think twice before using electronic cash. Come summer and those who used to buy two beers now drink three," said Joshi P, a bartender working at a four-star hotel in Kochi.
 
 He said electronic payments have not eliminated tipping as most customers visiting bars are usually people who are familiar with the bar tenders and so they seldom go without tipping.
 
 "Even if they don't I will not hold it against them," he added.
 
 Bevco has been keeping its fingers crossed hoping for an amendment in the Abkari Act so that it can to start accepting card payments. "It has been few months since we have sent the proposal. I have been following up on it and I hope that we will get a positive response," said H Venkatesh.
 
