HYDERABAD: In a new twist to the   marriage saga, the Hyderabad police have named the 16-year-old girl's parents as accused for her marriage to a 65-year-old  , Sheikh Ahmed Khalid Abdullah. However, treading with caution in the matter, the police have decided not to arrest   alias Rukhsar's parents -Mohammed Afsar and Afzul Begum alias Sayeedunnisa.

 The booking of Rukhsar's parents as accused comes as a surprise as it was they who had initially filed a police complaint and told the cops that their daughter got married without their knowledge, after falling into the trap of some agents.
 
 However, as reported by TOI first on Sunday , her parents could be seen in photographs and a video of Rukhsar's nikah, which clearly showed that they were aware of her marriage.
 
 “Despite knowing about the consequences, the parents got Rukhsarunnisa married to an aged person, that too by creating fake documents with the help of the now arrested Mumbai-based qazi to show her as major and submitting the documents to the minorities department in Mumbai. However, while lodging the complaint, they feigned ignorance about the marriage. Since they fell out with the agents over dispute in sharing money , her parents approached the police with a request to rescue her,'' Hyderabad police sources told TOI. Sources in the police depart ment said that many agents, who are now in trouble, are threatening victims to save themselves.
 
 The agents are employing various methods to influence and coerce the victims, including misguiding them by saying that they will also face police action if they approach the cops. But police officials clarified that the families of genuine victims have nothing to fear.
 
 It is learnt that till a few days ago, agents were also pressurising Rukhsar's parents to withdraw the case, citing that the issue had created enough trouble for all the stakeholders of the contract  .
 
 The investigation has also revealed that many women presently residing in Hyderabad and abroad, who were earlier victimised by Arab nationals, are now acting as agents. These women are playing a key role in getting minor girls or other innocent women married to Arabs by luring their families with handsome cash offers.
 
