CHENNAI: Erratic climatic conditions and a truant monsoon last year seem to have taken a toll on the production of honey in Marthandam, a small town in the western part of Kanyakumari district. Known as the honey capital of the state,   along with its surrounding villages, generates (from hives kept in Kanyakumari and Kerala) around 6 lakh kg of honey annually. While a profitable yield in a season ranges from 18kg to 20kg per hive, this year the yield was hardly 5kg per hive. Beekeepers blame it on the failure of the monsoon and untimely rains that aborted the blossoming of flowers. Even the small amount of flowers that blossomed was damaged due to unseasonal rains, rue beekeepers.

 "  store nectar in the hives to feed the larvae. But a lack of flowers has led to a negligible collection of nectar this year," says P Henry, a large scale beekeeper from Kottur village near Marthandam.
 
 The industry that employs around 50,000 beekeepers and labourers in and around Marthandam operates along the Western Ghats in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Kerala for easy access to the flora of the region. Rubber estates in the region are an added advantage. Rubber trees sprout new leaves after winter and the buds carry nectar, which serve as a raw material for honey.
 
 The harvesting of honey which starts in February is done in two spells — first in Kerala from February to March and in Tamil Nadu from April to May. Beekeepers place their hives in rubber estates and plantations and move from place to place to maintain hives and harvest them during the respective seasons. During off seasons, they feed the bees with sugar syrup.
 
 While the scarcity of flowers has hit them hard, beekeepers say unseasonal rains also washed away their only alternative — nectar from the sprouts of rubber trees. Sources from the Marthandam Beekeepers’ Co-op Society said unusual climatic conditions, especially prolonged sunlight without monsoon rains contributed to steep fall in honey production this year.
 
 The crisis has heavily hit small-time beekeepers who had invested a lot on artificial hive boxes, bees and maintenance charges, says D C Wilson Brow who had placed 150 hives in Pechiparai area this year. A beekeeper spends around `1800 to maintain an artificial hive and honey bees. Brow couldn’t get returns from even 50 boxes. "We get only three months to harvest honey after nine months of maintaining hives," he says. Dejected by the loss, Brow abandoned plans of expanding to 250 boxes in the coming season.
 
 The menace of sloth bears in hilly terrains is another challenge that beekeepers have to encounter this year. Due to the scarcity of food, bears raid bee hives for honey and break the hive boxes, says environmentalist S S Davidson, who runs Tribal Foundation for Kani Tribe people living in forest areas of Western Ghats in Kanyakumari district.
 
 The situation is no better for the Kani tribe that harvests natural honey for a living. "They are unable to locate bee hives in the usual places as there is a probability that honey bees withdrew into deep jungle areas in search of flowers," he adds.
 
 Beekeepers who feel they don’t get reasonable prices for their produce despite an enormous demand for pure honey in the market say the government should come forward to procure honey from beekeepers of the region at minimum support price. "We have also been demanding to set up honey bee research centre at Marthandam and provide us guidance from experts in  ," Henry adds.
 
