NEW DELHI: Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday said that "the way people from all quarters (of J&K) have condemned the attack on (Amarnath) pilgrims is the real Kashmiriyat."

 Singh and Union minister   also acknowledged there might have been a security lapse which failed to prevent Monday's terror attack on Amarnath pilgrims that left seven people dead.
 
 "Such incidents help us to overcome and introspect security lapse but be assured that we are dealing with issue seriously," Singh said.
 
 Ahir also said they will investigate the security situation.
 
 "If there are any security shortcomings, we will remove them," said Ahir. 
 
 Both minsters were addressing a press conference in Srinagar after attending a high-level security meeting there to discuss Monday's attack.
 
 Reports said that the bus that was attacked was not registered with the Amarnath Shrine Board and therefore may have failed to get security. The ministers said these issues will be fully investigated.
 
 Singh said that in connection with Monday's attack, "all unanswered questions will be answered" and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is personally monitoring the investigation.
 
 The Union ministers were full of praise for Kashmiris who condemned the attack on pilgrims.
 
 "People of Kashmir valley have come forward to say 'punish the guilty', this is what will restore India's faith in the composite culture of Kashmir. Civil society has vindicated our faith in everything India and J&K stand for," Singh said.
 
 He also "congratulated people of Jammu and Kashmir for the resilience shown in last 25 years".
 
 "Whenever anything of such a nature happens in Kashmir, it finds an echo across the country. And India stands with Kashmir," Singh added. 
  
 Singh also said he agreed with home minister Rajnath Singh's recent comment on the attack.
 
 "Yes, Rajnath ji is absolutely right, every Kashmiri is not a terrorist," Singh said.
 
 Rajanath had yesterday said "all Kashmiris are not terrorists" while responding to a Twitter user.
 
  
  
 
 The Twitter user later deleted her tweet.
 
 Echoing, Singh's views, Ahir said that the way people have come out and condemned the attack shows "that the common man is not with the terrorists."
 
 "The yatris didn't look scared. They are bravely carrying on with pilgrimage. Even after the attack, Amarnath Yatris are unfazed and enthusiastic," Ahir said.
 
 Singh earlier said the pilgrims were "adamant" the Amarnath yatra should go ahead.
 
 "If this is their spirit and the country's spirit, nothing can stop us," Ahir added.
 
 
