AURANGABAD: The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM),   has externed six people, including former municipal council president  , to maintain law and order in the district.

 “We externed six people from the district so that they can’t return and indulge in criminal activities. A total of 45 externment proposals have been pending since 2014. Of this, six have been dealt with on a priority basis. Other cases were not that strong for immediate stern action,” Osmanabad SDM and IAS officer   said on Tuesday.
 
 Shinde, who is affiliated to the Nationalist   (NCP), was externed for a six-month period. The rest were banished from the district for different periods varying between three months and two years.
 
 “The former municipal council president had around five cases against him. He was also charged under more than a dozen IPC sections besides relevant sections of the Mumbai Police Act and Arms Act,” an official from the SDM office, said.
 
 The action was taken in the wake of the anti-corruption crusaders appealing to the state to shift powers to extern from the level of the SDM to the Home department. The appeal was made because of the alleged inaction on the part of the former in tackling such cases citing various reasons including security-related apprehensions and other pressure tactics.
 
 While hundreds of proposals related to externment are said to be pending across the state at SDO levels, action in Osmanabad for instance has been taken after a three-year wait. Government authorities said pendency related to externment cases has been affecting law and order in direct and indirect ways.
 
 “The SDMs, who act judges in settling externment cases, often feel insecure while deciding cases as some of the criminals involved have political godfathers. It could be the reason behind anti-corruption activists demanding that the SDMs be stripped of their power and the duties be handed over to senior police officials,” a senior official said.
 
 He added that even though externment is a preventive action and not a punitive one with most of the SDM level officers do not want to lock horns with these criminals as it is primarily considered the police department’s responsibility.
 
 Civic activist  , associated with advocacy group Legal Rights Society, said reforms are needed in the process of settling externment cases. “The pendency of these cases has been silently taking its toll on the society’s health as no desired check is carried out on anti-social elements. It is high time that the concerned policy is reviewed”, he said.
 
