A 41-year-old woman was assaulted by a   bus conductor after she demanded to know why he hadn’t given her the   The woman was treated at KC   after the man reportedly   her, leaving her with a bleeding left ear and a broken earring. Her 3-year-old granddaughter was with her when the incident took place on Saturday last week. The conductor, G Uday Kumar, was arrested after she staged a protest and lodged a complaint.

 Lakshmi Renukesh, a resident of Kirloskar Layout, had boarded a BMTC bus near Sapthagiri College around 9 pm last week and took a ticket to Majestic. She gave the conductor Rs 100 (the ticket cost Rs 21). Uday Kumar wrote behind the ticket saying he had to return Rs 75, instead of Rs 79. When she pointed this out, he assured her he would give her the right change.
 
 Lakshmi told BM: “Near Majestic, he gave me back only Rs 74, claiming the remaining Rs 5 was deducted for my granddaughter. I objected as a three-year-old doesn’t
 need a ticket.” An argument ensued but he refused to pay her the money. When the bus reached platform number 20, Lakshmi refused to get down till she was paid.
 
 “He became violent and started abusing me. Then he slapped me twice with such force that it cut my ear lobe and the earring broke. There were so many passengers, including women, in the bus. But nobody came to help me even though I kept asking them. My ear was bleeding, but I refused to get down from the bus in protest,” said Lakshmi.
 
 She then called the police and informed her family.
 
 By the time the police came and she explained the incident, the conductor started apologising. “I didn’t want it. He was inhuman. He even made an elderly woman get out of the bus at the Malleswaram traffic signal and she struggled to cross the road. He kept confusing other passengers by asking them how much they paid for the ticket,” she said.
 
 “The conductor, Uday Kumar, was arrested in the early hours of Sunday. He works for BMTC 8th depot in Yeshwanthpur,” said a police officer. He has been booked for assault under, IPC 354, intentional insult, IPC 504, and voluntarily causing hurt, IPC 323.
 
