NOIDA: Even as the school fee hike issue led to the expulsion of 18 students by   Indirapuram following similar   in The Khaitan School Ghaziabad and DPS Sector 132  , officials don’t seem to be on the same page on their jurisdiction over the CBSE/ICSE schools.

 While an official of the Ghaziabad administration has said that the letters issued to the CBSE/ICSE schools on   by the joint director (education) Meerut are “of no consequence”, the incumbent JDE said any action from their side can be taken only after the   takes action first.
 
 On Thursday, TOI had reported that in an order issued by then JDE (Meerut) Mahendra Dev to Presidium School in January 2017, the official had restrained the school from charging annual and development fees and warned the school of action.
 
 Such orders have been issued to many CBSE/ICSE schools in the past and through a widely circulated letter dated October 26, 2016, to all the district inspectors of schools (DIOS), then JDE Mahendra Dev had asked them to take action against any such CBSE/ICSE-affiliated schools which indulge in collecting fee under heads other than those included in the state order.
 
 When contacted, ADM (revenue) Ghaziabad Rajesh Yadav said that these orders were not applicable to the CBSE/ISCE schools.
 
 However, point number 2 of the no objection certificate (NOC) issued by the state government to the Presidium School on December 12, 2012 reads, “The school will not collect caution money, maintenance charges, entry fee, donation, management charge, development charges from the students.”
 
 All the schools affiliated with CBSE/ICSE need an NOC from the JDE, who is the incharge of education-related activities under Meerut commissionerate.
 
 However, when the incumbent JDE, Divyakant Shukla, was asked if the CBSE/ICSE schools are out of the purview of the commissionerate, he did not give a clear answer. “These schools are given NOC by us but are affiliated to the CBSE. First the CBSE should take action against these schools,” he said.
 
 Officials could not explain why the former JDE directed the district inspectors to take action against the erring schools if they had no control over the CBSE/ICSE schools.
 
