KOLKATA: Not one of the city’s 2,600 barowari Durga Puja organisers has sought police permission for immersion on October 1, when the 10th day of Muharram coincides with Ekadashi, giving some relief to  , which finds itself saddled with the task of managing both Durga Puja and Muharram on that day following Thursday’s Calcutta high court interim order.

 Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar’s announcement — of not a single community puja applying for immersion on Ekadashi — goes in line with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s assertion that puja organisers usually refrain from immersing idols on Ekadashi.
 
 This does not preclude anyone from seeking permission for immersion on October 1 though state home secretary Atri Bhattacharya made it clear that the administration would give its green signal “based on the ground situation”. Patrons of the city’s major puja committees, many of whom are key Trinamool functionaries and ministers, are also trying to dissuade organisers from seeking immersion nod on October 1.
 
 Thursday’s high court interim order said it was “within the competence of the state” to designate separate routes for immersion and Muharram processions “on September 30 or even on October 1” but, significantly, added: “...if the immersion is found permissible”. Legal experts said this left scope for the government to use its discretion on a case-by-case basis while studying applications for immersion.
 
 There was initial confusion within the government on whether the high court had taken away the administration’s right to accord permission to processions of both communities, but consultations with   lawyer   gave more clarity, officials said. The court order said the government did not have absolute power to prohibit idol immersion processions on Muharram day but the order left it to the administration “to prevent or regulate a... community from exercising its faith or rituals on any day” based on “solid and concrete foundation”.
 
 Justice Harish Tandon, one of the two judges on the bench that passed Thursday’s interim order, read it out again on Friday when city-based lawyer and petitioner   moved high court saying there was confusion over immersion dates.
 
 State director-general of police Surajit Kar Purkayastha said at Nabanna that the administration had information that a section of outsiders would be entering Bengal to create trouble during the festival season and the government was keeping a watch on inter-state movement. Police stations along the bordering districts have also been put on alert.
 
 “There will be several outsiders, even foreigners, who will visit the city for the Puja. They are our guests. But we have inputs that certain outsiders are entering the state to create trouble. We will be keeping a close watch on these elements,” the DGP said. 
 
 Purkayastha also mentioned that Puja organizers across the state had to take permission for immersion along designated routes in the format available on the police website under Aasaan webpage.
 
 “There are around 30,000 community pujas in the state and another 30,000 celebrated at homes. We are in touch with stakeholders. All possible law-and-order measures will be deployed,” the DGP said. The state is setting up a 24x7 control room for this purpose.
 
 TOI spoke to senior officers of both Kolkata Police and Bengal Police, who said they had been instructed to go through each Durga Puja application submitted by organizers. “There are two columns that are now vital for our preparations. One talks of the day they plan to carry out the immersion; the other column asks them the route they wish to take. Organizers can now state ekadashi (October 1) as the day of immersion, but we will not allow them to deviate from their route. Once we come to know of organizers who may want to carry out immersion on October 1, we will get in touch with taziya organisers and ascertain their routes. There will be a set route for all those who are worshipping Durga at their residences and wish to carry out immersions that day. Going by tradition, we are not expecting many such households as October 1 is ekadashi,” an officer said.
 
