PUNE: Traffic violations on the Sihagad Road-Dhayari Phata stretch are rampant but lately, there has been an alarming increase in the number of underage drivers flouting rules.

 Many teenagers are often seen riding on shiny motorbikes or new-age speedy scooters on the wrong side of the road at Hingne Chowk, Manikbaug, Funtime Mall, and more prominently, at   and Dhayari Phata. Adults, who have to set an example of model behaviour, also violate this basic traffic rule.
 
 As a result, accidents are common here. Recently, a 45-year-old motorcyclist riding on the wrong side of   was fatally knocked down by a dumper near Dhayari Phata.
 
 On an average, police regis ter 50 to 60 cases of wrong-side driving on the Sinhagad Road stretch from Nanded city to Savarkar chowk near Sarasbaug.
 
 “Among these, 5% to10% cases are of underage driving, where minors in the 12 to 16 age group drive on the wrong side,“ assistant police inspector of the Dattawadi traffic division Vikas Bhujbal said. Penalising these minors is not a solution, he added. “Earlier, we would impose a fine of Rs 200. Now, we call their parents and inform them about the violation,“ Bhujbal said.
 
 Activists blame the menace partly on the area's coaching classes and schools.
 
 Mahesh Mahale, a resident and activist from the area, says there are many coaching classes on Sinhagad Road for students from Std VIII to X. Besides, there are high schools and colleges in Hingne, Narhe and Dhayari Phata.
 
 “The presence of these are among the reasons why minors are often seen riding on motor bikes. Dhayari and Narhe, which witnessed a realty boom in 2005, gave rise to the neo-rich, who sold their land. Their children are often seen riding on vehicles here,“ Mahale said.
 
 Wrong-side driving is more acute at Goyal Ganga junction.
 
 “There is no traffic signal, and people simply cram in their vehicles to whichever side they can access. Similarly, those coming out from Fun Time Mall heading to   or Hingne do not want to go all the way and take a U-turn to get to the other side of the road. Instead, they prefer to drive on the wrong side till they reach Goyal Ganga Junction, and then they take a left to get to the other side. There is an urgent need to install a traffic signal at Goyal Ganga junction,“ said Shashikant Kekare, a senior government official who stays at Nanded City.
 
 Between Wadgaon Budruk and Dandekar bridge, there are nine traffic signals. “However, the population has increased multi-fold over the years. There is a need for a parallel road to Sinhagad Road to ease traffic congestion. The parallel road is already half-way through, and will be completed in a few months,“ said former deputy mayor and corporator from the area Prasanna Jagtap.
 
