BHOPAL:   has failed to hold the Research Degree Committee (RDC) meet for the last three years that has affected research work and new registrations for PhD courses.

 Scholars who enrolled for PhD in 2014 are still waiting for registration from the RDC. 
 
 The delay in holding RDC meet is being attributed to the delay in declaration of result of entrance examination held by the varsity.
 
 According to   2009 rule, every university has to mandatorily implement the entrance exam for PhD degree. Besides, a six-month course was also made compulsory after entrance test, wherein a research scholar has to attend classes regularly. 
 
 Scholars are also required to clear the exam conducted after completing the course work. After completing this process, candidates appear in RDC wherein the proposal for PhD is finalized and approved.   consisting of an external examiner of the thesis, dean of concerned department of university, the supervisor of the PhD thesis and the chairman RDC. In case the chairman RDC is also the supervisor, the vice-chancellor nominates an additional member to the board. After clearing RDC guide is allotted to the candidate and thereafter research work starts. 
 
  could not follow the instructions under 2009 UGC rule as it failed in conducting entrance exam. Finally, university conducted their first entrance after five years in 2014. After the entrance, BU again delayed declaring result. As the process delayed, the course work could not start on time.
 
  and till date after three years the RDC about various subjects is going on. 
 
 Research scholar pursuing their P.hD said university has wasted their time. “I am regretting the day when I decided to pursue PhD from this university. It’s been 3 years and I am still waiting for the RDC,” said the candidate without quoting his name. 
 
 Candidates alleged that university is not clear about the guides available on the campus for PhD. “They do not have any data. I do not know when I will be able to complete my PhD,” said another scholar.
 
 Couple of research scholars have even decided to drop their PhD. “It is better to go for the research work in some other university in such a situation. I do not want to waste more years here,” said the student who preferred anonymity.
 
 When contacted, registrar, Prof UN Shukla said the university is in the process of streamlining the PhD issue. “We will be able to streamline the issue before next academic session by conducting all RDCs left,” said Shukla.
 
