CHENNAI: With students in the village queueing up to join private schools, the headmaster of a government primary school at Achirupakkam near Madurantakam is thinking out of the box to inspire his wards. The down-to-earth Sridharan Devarajan, 38, sports the same school uniform as his pupils who are at ease in his presence, approaching him without any inhibitions. 

 Sridharan has the enthusiasm but what he does not have is a magic wand or the funds to renovate the more than five-decade-old school which is a pale shadow of its past when it attracted more than a thousand students. Its strength is less than 50 now with just two teachers on the rolls including him. 
 
 “I am planning to stage crowd funding to raise money to build a compound wall for the school premises. Many wellwishers like the spiritual leader ‘Adigalar’ in Melmaruvathur and a few businessmen have come forward to help build the wall and other facilities for the school,” says Sridharan. 
 
 A native of Padapperi, Sridharan completed his BA in Tamil literature before taking up a teacher training education course and joining as a schoolteacher in 2001. He got promoted as headmaster five years ago.
 
 “I went through the old records at the school and found that it had 11 teachers and about 1,000 students in the 1970s. After many villagers admitted their kids and wards in private schools, the strength of the school has come down to one teacher Sharmila Banu, who worked at a private school in   for 17 years, and me,” says Sridharan.
 
 During the last academic year in 2016-2017, Sridharan says he managed to enroll 54 students in the school. However, this year, the enrollment has come down to 45. “I am visiting many neighbourhoods pleading with villagers to send their kids to the school,” he says. 
 
 When he is not on the job, Sridharan spends his time raising awareness among villagers on various social issues. He travels to neighbouring villages on an autorickshaw and counsels residents on combating polio. Sridharan, who got married eight months ago, adds that his wife A  , a homemaker, motivates him to pursue his dreams even in the face of an uphill struggle.
 
