BIJNOR: Politics over the murder of a 17-year-old boy in Peda village during the first phase of Assembly elections is heating up, as political parties have jumped into the communally sensitive issue leading to tension in the region. Late on Thursday night, the administration pasted notices on the houses of the organizers of a proposed   and announced a ban on the event. 

 Now RLD has come out against the mahapanchayat, claiming Bijnor is a peaceful city and no such activity should take place in the region that leads to communal unrest. Tension began to mount in and around Peda village as saffron outfits planned a mahapanchayat of 10,000 people on March 6 to protest alleged inaction by police in investigating the murder.
 
 On Friday, the district magistrate and superintendent of police summoned a delegation of Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, including its leader Shoorvir Singh, and told them not to hold the mahapanchayat as it would vitiate atmosphere in the region. However, the samiti members insisted that police must arrest all the accused in the 17-year-old's murder if it wanted them to call off the event. "We were called at the collectrate and asked to withdraw our agitation. But we stuck to our demand of arrests of all the accused before March 6. We weren't offered any assurance and will go ahead with the mahapanchayat on the said day if our demand is not met," Shoorvir Singh told TOI.
 
  Singh claimed that police were trying to falsely implicate innocent men and were not arresting those named in the FIR as they are from another community. "We are preparing for a mahapanchayat to mark our protest and will ensure at least 10,000 people participate in the event. Police cannot suppress our voice by pasting notices or issuing warnings. We are fighting for the right of the victim's family," he said.
 
  Meanwhile, RLD's lawyers wing on Friday took out a peace march in the city and submitted a memorandum to the superintendent of police urging the law enforcing agency not to allow the mahapanchayat. "We are not in favour of holding the mahapanchayat. We should maintain peace and communal harmony in the area. Police should investigate the youth's murder honestly and the real culprits must be jailed," state president of RLD's lawyers wing, Vidhi Prakoshth, Praveen Deshwal said. 
 
 
