BATHINDA: Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s election campaign in Lambi assemby   got off to a rocky start on Monday, as poor residents of the segment’s Lalbhai village disrupted his speech and claimed that they didn’t get grants for the construction of toilets.

 When locals raised their voice, Badal assured to look into the matter. On Sunday, his son and Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal had to face the ire of people at Kandhwala village in Jalalabad on the first day of his campaign when some persons pelted stones at his convoy.
 
 Lalbhai native Bikkar Singh along with other locals complained against   leaders of the area without naming anyone. “Though you had sent grants, your leaders embezzled the funds and these did not reach us for constructing toilets. Nearly 70% of the work of toilets is incomplete,” he told the CM.
 
 The locals raised their voice the moment Badal started addressing people and making appeal for votes. Later, talking to newspersons, the CM said, “Even a family head cannot satisfy every member of the household. Making every citizen happy in the state is not possible, but I will look into it.”
 
 Badal tried to woo the residents of various other villages in Lambi constituency. “Whatever SAD-BJP government has done for the area could not be even be thought in dreams. Whole of Punjab envies Lambi. Now it is turn of the people to vote for SAD,” he said.
 
 At Maan village near Badal, which has been adopted by his Union minister daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the CM said of the nine assembly segments in Bathinda parliamentary constituency, Lambi was their favourite. On a question of SAD-BJP alliance not meeting the election promises made in 2012, including giving laptops to students, Badal said some promises couldn’t be met, but they delivered on 90% promises.
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Monday morning started his election campaign after bowing at a gurdwara, a temple and a mosque at his native Badal village. He left his residence around 8am and headed towards the village gurdwara, followed by the temple and the mosque in the village. At all three places, the priests gave blessings for his victory.
 
 
 
 
 Badal accused AAP MP Bhagwant Mann of instigating people at   where people had pelted stones at the convoy of his son abd deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday evening. He said the Election Commission should take care of leaders instigating people and should disqualify them. On Jarnail Singh, AAP’s candidate from Lambi , he said he must not be knowing about the crops grown in Punjab, but was trying to challenge SAD.
 
