BHOPAL: A schoolgirl who used up all her savings to apply for the reassessment of her English paper in the   was vindicated as she now stands sixth on the merit list — a thumping victory for someone constantly needled to quit studies and become a ‘housewife’ because her father couldn’t afford to educate her, anyway.

 Sidra Ali remembers the day vividly. “I sat with my   for half a day, wondering if it was worth it,” said the girl, whose father barely makes ends meet as a TV mechanic. “My brother and I have a habit of saving money in our piggybank. I was saving up to buy him a cricket bat. It was he who suggested using it to pay for the reassessment fees,” she told TOI at a function where she was felicitated on Sunday.
 
 Her score in the state board was 95.6% — impressive in any circumstance and all the more because of her family’s poverty. “I had good marks but I was not satisfied with the 86 I got in English. I thought I deserved more,” she said.
 
 She asked her father for money to apply for re-evaluation, but he said in despair that he hadn’t any. “Then, my brother asked me to break into the piggybank. At first, I refused but later realised there was no option. As I was confident about my performance, I decided it was worth the risk,” she said.
 
 After the revaluation, her English marks increased by 10 and percentage shot up to 97.33%. “I secured 6th rank in the state and first in the city,” said a beaming Sidra. An inspiration at such a young age, she was awarded with the   memorial golden medal at   on Sunday. She got a Rs 15,000 cash prize from the Muslim Education & Career Promotion Society (MECAPS).
 
 Her father Raja was overwhelmed with emotion. “I am a TV mechanic and just know how to repair old models. I am struggling to give my children education. My wife does some stitching work at home to help me feed my family. I took a loan from LIC two years ago to pay my daughter’s school fees. But education is important and I will do anything to ensure she has a good life,” he said.
 
 Sandhya Jain, Sidra’s mathematics teacher, said: “She is a talented student, she just needed some guidance. I just told her the ways to study subjects, the rest she did by herself.”
 
 Sidra said, “My family has been very supportive though my relatives keep taunting that I quit studies and become a housewife. My parents and teacher Sandhya Jain always stood by me.” She wants to become an IAS officer. “I want to improve the education system of India. So far we have just focused on quantitative education and notice only the number of degrees that a person has. I want to make our education more qualitative,” she added.
 
 
