KOLKATA: The state promises a   with the second edition of the  . More than 60   will participate in the show on Tuesday , with over 25,000 onlookers cheering them on. The state has even roped in a big name from the film world to be the   at the event.

 Though the carnival is scheduled for the evening, cops have cautioned against traffic diversions in central Kolkata from the morning. Red Road, which was partially shut to traffic on Monday , will be completely off limits for traffic on Tuesday .
 
 “We will deploy 2,000 cops to man the area from Kidderpore Road to the Babughat sector on one side and from KC Das Crossing to Birla Planetarium on the other,“ said an officer. Cops have also erected six watch towers to keep an eye on revellers.
 
 According to DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar, a total of 67 pujas will take part in the carnival. Major organizers like Sree Bhumi, Ekdalia Evergreen and Salt Lake FD Block -which have large idols -will start bringing them to the venue from Monday midnight onwards. The police will be providing a pilot car for each of the remaining pujas to escort their idols to the venue from 11am.
 
 “It is a way to reach out to many people who could not visit our pujas,“ said Saptarshi Basu of  , the tableau of which will be led by men in dhotis and punjabis, and women in redand-white sarees.
 
 Green chairs have been placed near the dais from where the chief minister, her ministers, key bureaucrats and senior police officers will view the carnival. At the two ends -near Fort William in the south and   in the north -visitors will have to sit on white chairs.
 
 “Seating has been arranged for more than 25,000 people,“ said a representative of the decorator overseeing the arrangements. Those who won't manage to reach Red Road can catch the show live on giant screens put up around the area.
 
 All the pujas will line up in front of Plassey Gate off Strand Road at 4pm. Keeping in mind the problems that arose last year, food and drinking water will be arranged at Kidderpore Road and Strand Road.
 
 Each organizer will be allowed to take four vehicles and a maximum of 50 performers and club members to the event.
 
 “Out of the 67 pujas, around 30-35 will proceed to Bajekadamtala Ghat for immersion after the show. The rest will either go back to their respective localities or Nimtala Ghat for immersions,“ said a source.
 
