GREATER NOIDA: A day after   Dhirendra Singh demanded a check on open panel boxes, loose overhead and on ground wires/cables, transformers in open etc to avoid accidental electrocution especially in Greater Noida and its rural areas such as Jewar and Dankaur in a meeting at collectorate on Wednesday, residents of sectors Beta 1, Gamma 2 etc from Greater Noida complain of no action on ground.

 "There are loose, rusting wires, open panel boxes and other electrical works such as transformers etc in residential sectors across Greater Noida. Despite repeated complaints they have not been covered or tightened-up above the ground," said Harinder Bhati RWA general secretary sector Beta 1. 
 
 Raising concern on impending accidental electrocutions as was the case earlier this week in Dankaur area, residents maintain that these electrical wires and rusting transformers or panel boxes are especially risky during the current monsoon season. "If these are not checked/covered, then anyone can get hurt here. A panel box door near H block, sector Gamma 2 is always open. Children ride bicycles near it in the evening. Earlier, we had managed to shut it with the help of wires, but its been opened recently and has remained such since then," said a resident of sector Gamma 2 who does not wish to be named.
 
  
  
 
 "Are officials waiting for further accidents before they take any action?," said Bhati who adds that as against the rule of underground laying of power, telephone, TV, internet cables as well as water pipes in Greater Noida, the private contractors hired by authority are clearly flouting rules and leaving these unattended in the open. "More than half the poles in sector Beta 1 have loose wires wrapped around it. At the same time caved-in roads, due to recent showers, have exposed uncovered wires on ground," said Bhati.
 
 The situation remains same despite Jewar MLA raising the issue only yesterday (on Wednesday) at the review meeting with UP excise and prohibition minister Jai Pratap Singh at the collectorate.
 
 This was further followed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath reprimanding officials of Gautam Budh Nagar via video conferencing on Thursday in a review meeting of all district and police departments of Uttar Pradesh. Warning officials to finish all pending work within a set time frame, the CM said that "if complaints from the district will reach Lucknow, then strict action will be taken against that official/s," said Yogi. 
 
 Sources from the power department maintained that they are looking into the problem and will be resolving them at the earliest.
 
