PATNA:   (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad on Friday said there was no difference in grand alliance over distribution of council seats.
 
  Asked about the ally Congress’s displeasure over “unequal sharing” of seats for the council polls which will be held on March 9, Lalu told reporters after a programme at the   here that the RJD and JD (U) have distributed the four council seats on 50:50 ratio. “Now, no seat is left for Congress. Had there been fifth seat, it would have gone to the Congress,” he said. The RJD chief also said if there would be vacancy in the council in near future, the seat would be given to the Congress.
  
  Lalu’s statement came in the wake of “rift” in the grand alliance over distribution of four council seats. Murmuring is not confined to grand alliance only, but also in the NDA camp where LJP of   is determined to field its candidate on Gaya teachers seat against ally RLSP.
  
  In the NDA camp, while BJP has got two seats, Gaya graduates and Kosi teachers, HAM got Saran graduates and RLSP Gaya teachers constituency.
  
  Council chairman   is seeking re-election for third consecutive term from Gaya graduates seat. He faces challenge from RJD’s Puneet Singh. State Congress president and minister Ashok Choudhary told reporters that “nomination is open till February 20 and just wait and see what the party does.”
  
  Congress functionary Sadanand Singh was more forthcoming and complained it was against “gatbandhan dharma”. Stating that Congress has rightful claim over Gaya graduates seat where its candidate Ajay Singh had come second last time and it should get it, Singh, eight term MLA from Kahalgaon, urged JD (U) and RJD to rethink over it.
  
  JD (U) state spokesman Neeraj Kumar, MLC, said the two seats the party was contesting are its sitting seats.
  
  On murmuring within NDA camp, chief spokesman of BJP Binod Narayan Jha said, “It’s not a big issue. NDA leadership would forge unity among coalition partners in the next 2-4 days...there will be one to one contest between NDA and grand alliance nominees on all the seats.”
  
  LJP state party spokesman Ashraf Ansari said RLSP claim over Gaya teachers seat was not justified as its nominee Sanjeev Shyam Singh had last time won from here as an Independent.
