MANGALURU: Political rivalry among siblings in Bangarappa family is alive and kicking. This came to the fore with Madhu, younger son of former CM S Bangarappa, describing his elder brother Kumar as a piece of deadwood that has severed ties with Congress to rejoin hands with the  .

 Asserting that he will not fill Kumar’s place in the Congress, Madhu reaffirmed his unflinching loyalty to state JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy and vowed to build JD(S) in Karnataka.
 
 Addressing reporters on Saturday, Madhu, who is also the party in-charge for Dakshina Kannada, said while party hopping of leaders is common in an election year, the JD(S) is least perturbed by this development including that of Kumar realigning with the BJP. “His (Kumar’s) move is a betrayal of a wish shown by our father (S Bangarappa) to see Kumaraswamy as CM, for he strongly believed that Kumaraswamy could steer the state’s fortunes,” he noted.
 
 About Kumar’s comments that he felt the Congress had cut off his hands, Madhu, suggested that Kumar consult a good doctor lest the BJP cut of his legs. While defending Kumar’s choice to join a party of his choice for personal, political reasons, Madhu said Kumar will have lot of soul-searching to do when he sits beside B S Yeddyurappa, state BJP chief, who himself has a baggage of corruption which could come back to haunt the former CM anytime.
 
 Noting that the senior Congress leadership openly approached him with offers to join the Congress, Madhu, said an offer was made by none other than energy minister D K Shivakumar. “Everyone knows that Shivakumar has an axe to grind against the JD(S),” Madhu said adding this could explain the invitation to him to join the Congress. “But having learnt a lot about politics from my father and the leadership abilities given to me by JD(S), I will remain with JD(S),” he said.
 
 On organizational front, Madhu, said he is confident that the JD(S) will open its account in Udupi and DK districts in 2018 assembly polls. Admitting that JD(S) botched up its chances due to internal bickerings in the district unit in 2013, Madhu, said the core committee constituted by Kumaraswamy will ensure that the party leaders in DK work collectively to ensure that JD(S) puts up a decent show at the hustings in DK and rest of the state.
 
 
