NEW DELHI: Children diagnosed with tuberculosis are now given bitter-tasting pills four times a day, making it a loathsome exercise. These drugs will now come in orange and strawberry flavours, the director-general of health services ( ), Dr Jagdish Prasad, told TOI on Thursday. 

 The Union health ministry has already introduced these   pills in five states, including Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, on trial basis. “By December, we plan to make them available across the country. Some new flavours might be added, too,” Dr Prasad said.
 
 The introduction of flavoured drugs are in line with World Health Organisation’s recommendations to improve treatment and survival rate among children suffering from  , the DGHS said. Currently, parents often crush the drugs and add sugar make children consume them.
 
 Another problem with the management of paediatric TB is to ensure correct dosage. Children are given pills meant for adults in lower dosage. Prasad said the government was working to introduce dispersible drugs for children according to their weight.
 
 In India, about 70,000 children are registered with the national anti-TB programme and another 60,000 to 70,000 are under treatment of private practitioners. Easy availability of anti-TB medications, correct dosage and compliance can help reduce the burden, doctors said.
 
 According to Dr S K Kabra, professor of paediatrics at AIIMS, the incidence of drug resistance in children suffering from TB has gone up. “Children mostly get the infection from adults. If we can reduce the incidence of TB among adults, the incidence among children will also come down significantly,” he said.
 
 A recent study covering four metros found close to 9% of all paediatric TB patients are resistant to rifampicin, one of the first-line drugs used in treating infectious diseases. TB incidence, the survey found, was highest among children in Delhi at 12.2% and the least in Chennai at 5.4%.
 
 Diagnosis of TB is challenging in children due to high rates of extra-pulmonary TB and associated complications which can mimic other diseases, said doctors.
 
 
