New Delhi: Not very far from where our TOI office in Delhi stands today raged the fierce Battle of Delhi on September 11, 1803.

 Maratha general Daulat Rao Scindia, as the Mughal subedar of Agra and Ajmer, held sway over most parts of northern India. He was also, in an Oliver Cromwellish way, the lord protector of Delhi and   Shah Alam II.
 
 Scindia’s formidable Fauj-i-Hind or Army of Hindustan clashed swords with a smaller Anglo-Indian army led by General Lord Gerard Lake, Commander-in-chief of India. The Marathas were beaten, and on September 14, 1803, John Company’s forces took Delhi.
 
 Exactly 54 years later, on September 14,  , another Anglo-Indian army emerged victorious in the Siege of Delhi and retook the Mughal capital amid bloody fighting. History had repeated itself. But for Delhi, the  , which had begun in Meerut on May 10, and had landed at its doorstep on May 11, had effectively ended. And with it ended the Mughals and the East India Company. Delhi changed forever.
 
 Almost all the Muslims and those Hindus who sided with the rebels were banished from the Mughal capital even as the British bestowed favours on traders and merchants who supplied the British forces while they were stationed on the Ridge.
 
 “The refined and courtly culture of Delhi was eroded with the vanishing of the court and a significant chunk of its original population. Delhi that rose out of the ashes of the Revolt was markedly different,” says Rana Safvi, who has recently translated an Urdu eyewitness account of the Revolt called Dastan-e-Gadar by Zahir Dehlvi into English.
 
 After Queen Victoria was proclaimed Empress of India at the Durbar of 1877, those banished from Delhi were allowed to return. Not many came back, though. One of the families that had left Delhi in 1857 was the Nehru family. Gangadhar Nehru was the Mughal kotwal of Delhi when the Revolt broke out. And though they either retained their ancestral haveli or got it back in 1877, they chose to settle down in Allahabad.
 
 Ninety years after the Revolt, as India became independent amid   in 1947, Delhi suffered again, this time irreversibly. Bloody communal riots gripped the capital even as a two-way exodus of people began. Watching over Delhi in this critical hour was   as the first Prime Minister of free India. The great grandson of the last kotwal of Delhi urged his mentor to come to the capital.
 
 And Mahatma Gandhi acceded to this request. In September 1947, Gandhi took up residence in the frenzied city for one last time. As history tells us, he would lay down his life in his fight to restore peace and communal amity. India paid a heavy price for peace, yet Gandhi’s ahimsa triumphed over hate.
 
 But back in 1857, it was hate that won: first when the rebel sepoys captured Delhi, and then again when the English won it back and unleashed their “retributive justice”.
 
 As this storm raged over Delhi, the sort of ‘garam hawa’ that   would write about in reference to the Partition, the Mughal emperor became a virtual prisoner, for life as later events would tell us. Indeed,   was a tragic victim of circumstances. So powerless was he that he couldn’t even prevent the massacre of 52 European civilians he had sheltered in the fort.
 
 Yet Indians almost forgot 1857. But the British didn’t: it lived on in their collective consciousness. Arvind Sharma writes in his latest book The Ruler’s Edge: “It’s said that there were three things that every schoolboy in England knew about India: the Black Hole, Plassey and the Mutiny.” 
 
 When the   was raging in 2007, General Sir Richard Shirreff of the British Army was in India. A strategic affairs expert told TOI that the British were trying to revisit the street-fighting, the urban warfare that their troops had experienced in Delhi in 1857 and take lessons for the fight for  . Is it true? 
 
 This correspondent decided to cross-check with General Shirreff himself. “There is no direct link. But the battle for Mosul highlights a fundamental fact of 21st-century conflict—it is fought among the people. This means that a commander has to ask the question: ‘What impact is my actions going to have on the minds of the people I’m operating amongst?’ Alienate the people and you gift the advantage to the adversary and this means people-centric campaign planning. In Mosul, look at how it is the humanitarian impact of Iraqi operations which has predominated in the media.” said General Shirreff, who was also the former Deputy Supreme Allied Commander Europe. 
 
 He added, “Of course, such considerations were the last thing on the minds of British commanders in Delhi in 1857, hence the terrible massacres which took place subsequently. But, of course, the past is another country.”
 
 The fight for Mosul is still on, but between Iraqi troops and ISIS fighters. And in India, on the 160th anniversary of 1857, hate seems to be winning again without a war. 
 
 
