CHANDIGARH: Punjab will probably become the first state in the country to introduce   to  , replacing the obsolete ways of analyzing the accident site. The first round of `Road Crash Investigator and  ' for traffic police personnel is on at Maharaja Ranjit Singh   in Phillaur.

 The new elements being taught in the training will help the police give a fair deal to two drivers involved in an accident, and this will rule out the general tendency to blame the bigger vehicle. The use of technology will also ensure that the survey of the accident site is completed fast, so that the area is cleared for traffic to continue flowing.
 
 Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija said Punjab was the first state in the country to start road safety crash investigation units in each district. “New features, such as use of global positioning system (GPS) for recording the exact location of the accident spot, the nature of scratch marks on the road -to establish whether the driver applied brakes and tried to steer away the vehicle -will be added.
 
 Weather conditions at the time of the accident will also be taken into account,“ he said.
 
 Apart from being helpful in investigating human error, the analysis of the accident site will also be used to make changes in road engineering and envi ronment, and also vehicle design for prevention of ac cidents. The system is likely to be launched in Ludhiana and Mohali shortly, he said. As of now, only five cities in the country -like Kolkata and Coimbatore -are using this scientific accident investigation system.
 
 “DGP Suresh Arora and ADGP Traffic MK Tiwari were convinced about the concept and pushed it,“ said a Punjab police official.
 
 Meanwhile, unlike other states like Haryana -where the state has decided to transfer almost half the funds raised from compoundable traffic challans for this fund -Punjab has limited the amount of the fund.
 
 Some states have also charged a nominal cess on every liquor bottle sold in the state. Had these two measures been included in the plan, Punjab could have raised around Rs50 crore annually.
 
 The training involves post-crash management, technology in traffic, vehicle safety standard, forensic evidence collection, crash investigation, and road safety audit.
 
 The state government had already prepared its Road Safety Policy that also highlighted the need for setting up of Road Safety Research and Development Centre, along with Road Safety Laboratory, in collaboration with the state's engineering and medical colleges.
 
 Punjab ADGP (traffic) MK Tiwari was not available for comments.
 
