AURANGABAD: The poll battle for the Marathwada teachers’ constituency is getting fierce, with the contenders trying their best to strengthen their candidature. Voting for the seat will take place on February 3.

 BJP-sponsored Satish Patki recently received support from tribal school teachers and a few other organisations, while Maharashtra Underprivileged Teachers’ Association (MUPTA) on Wednesday extended its support to NCP’s Vikram Kale, the outgoing member of the legislative council.
 
 “We are against those who dream of altering the Constitution and disrupting social reservation. We extend our support to the NCP candidate with the hope that our organisation will receive benefit in the upcoming state university polls,” MUPTA founder secretary Sunil Magare said. 
 
 MUPTA, which enjoys good membership in the region, also announced two rallies in support of Kale at the end of this month. The development comes close on the heels of a registered association of teaching and non-teaching staff from tribal schools in Maharashtra throwing its weight behind Patki.
 
 Govinda Gunjal, state president of the tribal teacher’ association, accused Kale and the previous Congress-NCP government of giving a deaf ear to the demands of the staffers for years. “As we have no hopes from the sitting MLC, we have turned towards the BJP-sponsored candidate. Patki has assured us that all our pressing demands would be accepted and therefore, we have extended our support to him,” he said.
 
  and Vocational Instructor Teachers Association along with RPI led by Union minister Ramdas Athawale and   led by Union minister   have also extended their support to Patki. 
 
 The Congress and the NCP have joined hands for the polls, but an accord could not be reached between   and BJP. The Shiv Sena has nominated Govind Kale, who has been leading the action committee of serving teachers seeking exemption from NET-SET for years by taking the battle for their rights to the Supreme Court. 
 
 V G Pawar, who is contesting the polls under the banner of Marathwada Shikshak Sanghatana, and Kalidas Mane from Latur are amongst the candidates who are eyeing the post.
 
 While the main focus is on the battle between established parties, Yunus Patel, who is fighting the polls under the banner of Shikshak Bachav Sangharsha Samiti, and Dilip Sahastrabudhhe, a retired government official from the education department, are being dubbed as dark-horse candidates.
 
 Election officials have said that voters for the teachers’ constituency polls would get the indelible ink mark on their middle finger instead of the index finger. The mark on the index finger would be done during the polls for graduate constituency. 
 
 As per official data, Aurangabad has maximum voters (10,789) for Marathwada teachers’ constituency polls, followed by Latur (10.120) and Beed (8,756). Other districts namely Nanded (8,545), Osmanabad (5,482), Jalna (4,465), Parbhani (4,374) and Hingoli (2,546) also have sizeable number of voters. 
 
