KOCHI:   tasted his first major international success under the watchful eyes of coach   when he led the Indian team to U-19 World Cup triumph in 2008 in Malaysia. The man who played a crucial role with the ball in that victory was  , who was also the vice-captain of the team. Almost a decade later, Dav Whatmore isn't surprised with Kohli's emergence as one of the leading batsmen in world cricket. The former Aussie international dwells on the positive impact of  , on Kohli and Jadeja and on Indian team's chances of winning abroad in a chat with 
 

 
 
 It is a domestic competition but more than a domestic competition and is a massive attraction for not just players but for coaches, support staff and umpires. A lot of other countries have seen the financial benefits of IPL and have tried to recreate something similar. IPL is a revelation and you can't just simply go around it.
 
 
 
 Absolutely. You are rubbing shoulders with the best when you play in IPL. And it's just not the big players from other countries, you get to play with in IPL, you get to know the big India guys as well. Indian cricketers have had the opportunity to do that for 10 years now. That to me is a major reason why you see the current generation of Indian cricketers play a fearless brand of cricket at the international level. And it's just not the Indians who have benefitted from IPL.
 
 
 
 I see no difference in his approach then and now. He is always physical, aggressive and leads from the front. Where he turned the corner was his conscious decision to reduce weight. By doing that he made a massive statement; you are telling everyone that I am doing everything on my part to ensure my performances go up. Earlier, the opposition teams would plan to get him outside the offstump. In England, Virat didn't have a good series (In 2014). But now when I see him play through the off-side, the bat comes down straight and the face of the bat is hitting the ball. He has been able to conquer the grey areas in his batting and the result is there for all of us to see. Virat has become a phenomenal player.
 
 
 
 He is still growing and learning in the job. I think essentially you are what you are and it is not an easy job. I think he will improve as a leader with time.
 
 
 
 
 Some of the stuff from the players went overboard, a bit too much of talking by players from either side. I would suggest that the   should leave the microphones switched on all the time. Let people hear what players are talking about. That would be interesting.
 
 
 
 Potentially yes, because they have the pace, they have spin and can bat deep. Converting all that ability from one set of conditions to another will be the challenge. I think they are going to South Africa at the end of the year and it would be a tough series. I would suggest that when they go abroad, they should go there early to get themselves acclimatised to the conditions. 
 
