Author and noted short filmmaker   is in seventh heaven these days. The 'Flat No. 101' director is set to return to the prestigious Festive De Cannes’ Short Film Forum on May 26 with his short film ' ' set for screening at the do.
Starring   and   as leads, the 11-minute-long film tells the story of a novelist who accidentally meets his childhood crush after 15 years in a cafe. “They start talking about how the last 15 years have passed in their lives. The story takes shape with their conversations which are heavy on nostalgia,” says the director, who had previously showcased his film 'Peek-A-Boo' in the Forum in 2014. 
 It doesn’t end at that, as the director has more reasons to cheer as his 21-minute short film titled 'The Decision' is receiving rave reviews from both critics and fans alike. Starring   in the lead role, it is a story that revolves around the trauma of a mother after she learns that her only child is suffering from Down syndrome. 
 The short film, which was shot in Washington and has director V   as its line-producer, was also officially selected in a number of film festivals across the country including Jaipur International Film Festival, Dada Saheb Phalke International Film Festival, Noida International Film festival and Mumbai Shorts International Film Festival to name a few and has garnered accolades from the short film enthusiasts all over.
 Hailing from Vizianagaram, Srinu, a BCom graduate, ventured into filmmaking with dreams of making it big in the field. “I barely knew anybody in Hyderabad when I moved into the city in 2007. Initially, it was very difficult to sustain myself but within three years, I started working on short films and told myself that I will become a feature film director by 2017. And here I am today,” he says.
 Today, Srinu has carved a niche for himself with his short-films. He has done more than 15 short-films in as many genres. His first documentary, 'We are Mothers' (anecdotes of 8 mothers including Lakshmi Manchu) was premiered on the occasion Mother's Day on Sunday. 
 
