NEW DELHI: The Indian cricket board (BCCI), under the supervision of the Committee of Administrators (CoA), formed a new four-member panel on Saturday to look into the remuneration of head coach   and other support staff members. It seems increasingly likely, though, that there may be a rethink on the appointments of   and   as bowling coach and overseas batting consultant respectively.

 CoA chairman   told reporters that the four-member committee, which has acting BCCI president   and Amitabh Chaudhary, CoA representative   and CEO  , will also consult Shastri on the appointment of the support staff on July 19, the day the Indian team leaves for Sri Lanka.
 
 While talking about the recommendations of the   on Rahul Dravid and Zaheer Khan, Rai said: "There is no such thing as a contract yet. A recommendation has been made by the CAC and the CoA has to act on it. That recommendation will be acted upon after consultation with the head coach."
 
 Ravi Shastri's appointment as head coach was approved in Saturday's CoA meeting, which was attended by Rai, Edulji and Johri. The committee also decided that the outcome of the July 19 meeting would be again taken up for finalization on July 22. "We have taken the recommendation of   (CAC) for Shastri as the head coach. We have decided that we should have further communication with Shastri, who is yet to come back from abroad. That is why we have formed a committee to look into it," Rai said.
 
 Asked if Shastri had demanded his own choice of support staff, Rai said: "The support staff has been decided in consultation with the head coach already. Now, there is going to be a core support staff and will be decided soon. So far, no contract has been made."
 
 Rai added that the newly appointed coaches can't have any conflict-of-interest issues. "Whether it's Rahul Dravid or Zaheer Khan, they all have other assignments also. So, we have to have a conversation with them. We have to get to the details of it. We have to ascertain their willingness and availability before making final contracts and ensure that there isn't any conflict of interest. All that will take a while," Rai said. 
 
