SHIMLA: With just months left for assembly polls in the state,   in Himachal Pradesh is heading towards vertical split with formation of two groups. While one group headed by   is camping in Delhi to seek changes in the organization, the other group assembled at Nagrota Bagwan to celebrate the birthday of transport minister G S Bali and to plan its future strategy.

 The camp led by Virbhadra Singh includes cabinet ministers Sujan Singh Pathania, Sudhir Sharma, Thakur, Singh Bharmauri, Prakash Chaudhary and Mukesh Agnihotri and all are camping in Delhi demanding free hand to Virbhadra Singh in upcoming polls.
 
 Meanwhile, state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu along with cabinet ministers including  , Vidya Stokes, Dhani Ram Shandil besides two chief parliamentary secretaries- Rajesh Dharmani and Sohan Lal had assembled at Nagrota Bagwan for birthday celebrations of GS Bali. 
 
 All these leaders are considered to be opponents of Virbhadra and their presence at one platform is an indication that rivals too have decided to gear up for the final battle ahead of polls. “All cabinet ministers were called by Virbhadra Singh to Delhi but in the end only five had gone. This shows that leaders are slipping away from him,” said a senior Congress leader who was present at Nagrota Bagwan.
 
 Six MLA and some block presidents had recently written a letter against Virbhadra to party high command but sources said that central leadership has not taken it seriously. Sources said that to resolve the dispute between the government and organization, Congress in-charge for state,   would come on two day visit in the first week of August.
 
 While rivals are uniting themselves before the polls, Virbhadra camp too is putting in all efforts to seek free hand for their leader in the coming election and they already have met Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi to apprise him about the current political scenario of state.
 
 With just months left for assembly polls, Virbhadra camp wants to have state president of its choice by removing Sukhu to have ticket distribution according to their choice. Right before 2012 assembly polls, Virbhadra camp had ensured removal of Kaul Singh Thakur as state president by pressurizing the high command.
 
