Mumbai: The $16-billion Larsen & Toubro (L&T) has extended the tenure of   by another three years by appointing him as its non-executive chairman from October 1. Naik, 75, is currently the executive chairman of the engineering and construction giant and, according to company rules, he will relinquish this position by September-end.

 There was little clarity on whether Naik will eventually retire in September or whether he will be redesignated when his term as executive chairman nears an end. Naik had earlier said that L&T will have a chairman, but whether it would be an executive or non-executive was something that was yet to be decided.
 
 On Friday, L&T said that its board of directors felt that given Naik’s rich experience and understanding of complexities in businesses, he should continue with the organisation providing advice and guidance to the next generation of leadership in the capacity of non-executive chairman for the enterprise’s sustained growth and profitability.
 
 There is no retirement age for non-executive directors. L&T, however, said that Naik’s term will be till September 30, 2020. A   awardee, Naik has been with the company for 52 years, becoming its CEO in 1999 and chairman in 2003.
 
 L&T has been restructuring leadership roles to accommodate Naik. In 2012, it split the post of chairman and managing director, allowing Naik to continue as chairman. And now it has redesignated Naik as its non-executive chairman.
 
 “A M Naik has been the soul of L&T, and has given his whole life to the organisation. We are delighted that he has agreed to continue to help the company for the next three years,” said Subodh Bhargava, chairman of L&T’s nomination and remuneration committee. 
 
 The company also said on Friday that  , 57, will take charge as its CEO and MD from July 1. Subrahmanyan, or SNS as he is called, is currently the deputy MD and president. Naik has been mentoring and grooming SNS for the last three years ever since he was identified as the former’s successor. Like Naik, SNS too is an L&T lifer. He has been with the company for 33 years, having joined as a project planning engineer in 1984.
 
 Subrahmanyan said, “Stepping into the shoes of a visionary and industry doyen like Naik is not easy. However, I have been blessed that Naik has agreed to continue as an non-executive chairman. This will bring continuity and stability into the organisation during this transition period.”
 
 
