Hyderabad: The   (IIP), which is headquartered in Mumbai and has branches in major cities including Hyderabad, is keen on expanding its presence in the city, IIP director N C Saha said here on Thursday.

 Addressing a conference on ‘Inno Vision in Packaging’ organised by the IIP, Saha said the institute will be approaching the Telangana government with a request to allocate an additional five acres of land. IIP is also planning to add four more centers at -- Bengaluru, Guwahati, Kakinada and Ahmedabad, he added.
 
 “The current center at Sanathnagar doesn’t have adequate space. Additional land will be required to expand our Hyderabad center as we plan to construct our building and hostel facilities. Our intake for PG Diploma courses too has increased from 35 to 100 here. We will submit a memorandum to state government soon,” IIP regional chairman Vagish Dixit explained.
 
 Even as IIP plans to expand its presence in the city, Telangana IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said IIP can explore possibilities of collaborating with starups at T-Hub. “There are some startups working on labelling. IIP can work with such startups,” he added. 
 
 Commenting on the activities of IIP, Saha pointed out that the government of India has mandated IIP to develop packaging standards for 500 export commodities such as tea, coffee, spices, flowers and fruits. “IIP developed packaging standards for nearly 28 fruits that were submitted to Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) recently,” he added. 
 
 Saha pointed out that the Indian packaging industry constitutes about 4% of the global packaging industry and is expected to reach $32 billion by 2020.
 
 IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan, who inaugurated the conference on “Inno Vision in Packaging” organised by IIP on Thursday, announced that T-Works, which will be an incubator for product startups, will be set up at the Osmania University. T-Works will be inaugurated by President Pranab Mukherjee, during the centenary celebrations of the university on April 26. T-Works will offer prototyping facilities for electronics, semiconductors and hardware startups.
 
 
