CHANDIGARH:   Committee (AICC) treasurer   has approached the   high court seeking directions to quash the money laundering case registered by Enforcement Directorate (ED) into   in the allotment of a plot to Associated Journals Limited (AJL), publisher of the ‘National Herald’ newspaper, in Panchkula in 2005.

 Founded by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, AJL is reportedly controlled by senior Congress leaders, including Gandhi family, through Young India Limited.
 
 The 86-year-old Congress veteran, Vora was recently questioned by ED along with former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. In his plea in HC, he has alleged harassment by the agency and has sought directions “not to use coercive methods against him in the case”.
 
 His plea, which would be heard by a division bench headed by the Chief Justice Shiavax Jal Vazifdar on Wednesday, has also sought directions “to stop the ongoing ED investigation forthwith”.
 
 Vora, who is chairman-cum-managing director of AJL, has also impleaded Surender Kumar Kantiwal, deputy director, ED, Chandigarh as party in the case.
 
 Former Union minister and senior advocate Kapil Sibal, along with senior criminal lawyer R S Cheema, are expected to appear for Vora to argue the case.
 
 On July 15, 2016, ED had registered Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in relation to the controversy and in October 2016, the agency had issued notice to Vora regarding investigation of the case. ED suspects that Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) abused its discretionary powers to grant out-of-turn favours, illegal extensions and concessions to Associated Journal Ltd (AJL) during Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress regime in Haryana.
 
 In April this year, ED had questioned Vora and Hooda regarding the case. ED has already taken into possession all the communications between AJL and Hooda regarding the plot.
 
 The CBI had also registered a case on April 6 against Hooda, who was also the ex-officio chairman of the Huda, and others. Matter is still under investigation.
 
 The entire controversy pertains to an institutional plot number C-17 in Sector 6 of Panchkula, which was allotted by Huda to AJL in 1982. It was taken back by Huda in 1992 as no construction had been done there in 10 years. The appeal and revision filed by AJL against resumption of plot were also dismissed by Huda administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner (town and country planning) in 1995 and 1996 respectively. However, when Hooda become the chief minister in 2005, he had allowed reallotment of the plot to AJL.
 
 After Manohar Lal Khattar came into power in October 2014, an FIR was registered by the state vigilance bureau into alleged irregularities in the allotment “causing huge financial loss to Huda”.
 
