An increasing number of students in Noida are flocking to food trucks, which are giving tough competition to their college canteens and nearby restaurants. The truck owners say they’re parked near private Noida colleges for most of the day because 80-90% of their business comes from the students of these colleges, who’re usually dissatisfied with the fare at their college canteen, don’t have restaurants nearby, and can afford to pay for the varied fare the food trucks dish out.

 
 
 Shobhit and Karishma Agarwal, co-owners of Burnout stationed near Sector 37, say, “90% of our customers are students from nearby colleges, who come from well-to-do families. Since we cater mostly to youngsters, we ensure that we don’t have the same old, greasy, desi khaana. We keep introducing offers to attract the young crowd. For instance, we have sombrero hats for our customers, who can wear them and click selfies, tag us and get discounts. Apart from this, we also have a TV screen and a sound system to give the feel and the vibe of a restaurant in an open space.” 
 
 Bhavik Bhatia, who owns a   called Being Truckers stationed outside a Noida university, tells us, "One of the major reasons why students are turning to food trucks is because one gets a variety of cuisines at these trucks with a new twist. College canteens hardly ever rework their menus."
 
 
  
  IT'S FOOD TIME, FOLKS (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Food trucks are gradually becoming the dating adda for couples who come here to relax, share a meal and have some private conversations. Rajat and Namita, who visit the food trucks near their college frequently, say, "When we want to bunk classes or have some private time, we go to the food trucks near Sector 150 and order a plate of chilli potato or quesadillas. Sometimes, we go to those food trucks even twice a day – for breakfast and evening snacks. Restaurants mein woh feel kahan hai? Yahan par khaane ke maamle mein hum blessed hain.” Tanisha Tiwari, a resident of Noida sector 37, who studies at a Noida university, says, “Eating near a food truck is less formal and more relaxed. It’s a refreshing break from claustrophobic college canteens." 
 
 
 
 Pulak and Meenakshi Aggarwal, who run a food truck called Flip on Wheels near Amity University, say, "Sixty-seventy per cent of our customers are college students. Our outdoor seating arrangement is what draws them to our truck.” Pulak adds, “After parking outside the university, we move to the market in Sector 50. Sometimes, we also move to Sector 45 market, where we cater to nearby residents, but the maximum sales are during peak college hours, from 10.30am to 5pm."
 
 Nakul Malik, who co-owns a food truck at Sector 125 with his brother Mukul Malik , says, "Eighty per cent of our customers are college-goers, while 20% are corporate professionals from nearby IT firms. There is a growing demand for   among youngsters. Since college canteens do not serve any such dishes, so students prefer going to the food trucks that not only serve Continental dishes, but also serve a great variety of Chinese, north Indian and south Indian delights." 
 
 
 
  
  Akanksha, Silky Singhal and Anushka Sharma prefer to take Continental cuisine from the food truck (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 
 Neha Yadav, 28, who runs three trucks in Noida and two trucks in Gurgaon, says, “Sixty per cent of my daily income comes from students. During the first half of the day, all my trucks are parked near prominent colleges in Noida, and the response that we get from the students is overwhelming.” Raghav Dembla, a student of Symbiosis Centre for Management Studies, who is a frequent customer at the food trucks near his college, says, “Hum sab kuch try karte hain at these food trucks. From biryani and burgers to momos and chowmein, there are different options available at these trucks. After a point, ghar ka khaana or the canteen food gets monotonous.”
 
 
 
 Shelly Sharma, a student at a university in Sector 63, says, “I prefer eating at food trucks over eating in the college canteen. College ka khaana boring hota hai. The food served at the trucks is quite filling, affordable and hygienic.”Aman Varma, owner of  , who parks his truck near Amity in the first half and later moves to Sector 51, opposite  , says, “About 80% of our customers are students from nearby colleges and universities. Even for food delivery, if there are 120 orders, 100 are from students during college hours.”
 
 
 
 
