Lucknow:   ideologue Indresh Kumar on Friday gave King George’s Medical University ( )   a lesson in the Hindu nationalist volunteer organisation’s rituals, as well as its brand of nationalism, at a doctor’s meet chaired by the university vice-chancellor (VC) Professor MLB Bhatt.

 Organised by the   unit of RSS at the Scientific Convention Centre which was decked with portraits of RSS founders Hedgewar and Golwalkar, the meet started with a RSS arm-salute and a prayer to the saffron flag, followed by a warm-up exercise, in which Kumar emulated iconic postures of great Indians like Swami Vivekananda and Mahatma Gandhi, with attending doctors obediently copying his every action. 
 
 Imitating Gandhi’s way of walking with a stick, with his back bent forward, he peddled the usual RSS narrative, “Bapu jhukte nahi toh desh baat ta nahi (Had Bapu not bowed down, India would not have been divided)”, followed by, “Addh jaate aamaran anshan par, toh koi taqat desh ko baat nahi sakti thi (Had he sat on a hunger strike to death, no force could have divided the nation.”
 
 Kumar said all those who live in India are Indians, Bharatiya, Aryan, Hindu and Hindustani, because it is the universal truth that identity is a factor of one’s birthplace. “Those born in America are Americans, those in Saudi Arabia are Arabs, those in Japan are Japanese, etc. Here in India, though, we have a multiplicity of identities. From Aryavarta, we’re known as Aryans, from Bharatvarsh, we’re Bhartiya or Bharatwasi, from Hind and Hindustan we’re Hindu or Hindustani, and from India we’re Indians. It’s not communal to say we’re all Hindu and Bhartiya,” he said, adding, “It’s our duty to bring back to the fold those who have gone astray from the path of divine truth.”
 
 Calling India not an assemblage of regions, religions, languages, civilisations and cultures, but a source of birth and life, Kumar said, “Those who sing that caravans kept coming and India kept getting formed are mentally unsound.” “Whoever was born here — be it Baudh, Jain, Ambedkarwadi or Sikh — was Ramlal. Sadly, the two faiths that arrived from outside changed Ramlal into Reverend and Rehmatuddin, which created confusion and trouble in India,” he said. 
 
 Kumar exhorted the audience to remember the army’s sacrifice at the border, and said, “If it’s not for their sacrifice, we wouldn’t be able to guard our freedom, education and employment. He then drew a comparison between Nehru and Bose, saying, “We can only compare big people to a certain extent, but for Bose, every inch of this land was motherland, and he dared to give his blood for it. For Panditji, the motherland only existed inland, and if there was no grass growing on it, China could have it.”
 
 Kumar also said Congress had not brought the country freedom, but only gifted it division, where people showed patience even after loss of lives, displacement and conversion. Referring to Kashmir and stone pelters, he said, “Pattharbaaz (stone pelters) have no human rights. They should be given inhuman punishment for acting against the motherland and hoisting the Pakistani flag. As for Pakistan, it will soon be wiped off the world map and become non-existent, as it was before 1947.” 
 
 Earlier, while unfurling the RSS saffron flag, orders were given to doctors and RSS affiliates to stand in attention, and then form neat queues. They were then to walk up to the flag and offer ‘Rajat Pranam’, which an associate demonstrated. Once in front of the flag, they had to place their hand horizontally on their chest and make a swift movement with the neck in obeisance, put a tika (mark) on the flagpole, offer flowers to it and submit donations in crisp white envelopes in a basket placed to the flag’s left.
 
 Orders were also given to the media and others not to take any photographs or video of the programme. Everyone in the audience, including medical professionals at KGMU — professors, administrative staff, a few students and even the VC — complied gingerly.
 
 
