KOLKATA: As the   (CBFC) continues to throw up censorship rows at regular intervals, many from the film industry have questioned the relevance of having a system that forces cuts and beeps in the digital age. At a time when the web has become a repository of unedited and uncertified content, does having an authoritarian scissor-happy   make much sense?

 According to actor Dhritiman Chaterji, and directors Suman Mukhopadhyay, Srijit Mukherji and Soumitra Dastidar, censorship doesn’t have any relevance now. “It is a tool that every government uses. Earlier, it was done discretely. Now, it is in your face,” Chaterji said. Mukhopadhyay, who has faced issues with CBFC over ‘Kangal Malsat’, said, “Censorship is a curse in Indian cinema. There should be a board that rates. It should not censor or give directives. ” Mukherji pointed out that it is the market that should accept or reject a film and not CBFC.
 
 The views are representative of what a majority of India thinks about censorship. Hence, the question being asked is why has the Cinematograph Act of 1952 been not been abolished as yet? Multiple attempts to amend it have proved futile. In 2002, when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was PM, Vijay Anand had wanted to present a new Act in Parliament that would be relevant for next 50 years. But it wasn’t allowed and Anand quit as CBFC chief.
 
 With Manmohan Singh as PM, a panel was constituted under the chairmanship of judicial expert Mukul Mudgal in 2013 to review CBFC’s functioning. Leela Samson (the then CBFC chief), Sharmila Tagore and Javed Akhtar were part of it. The committee met with leading producers to again decide that that the archaic Act needed to be amended. The government changed in 2014 and no one heard much about that committee any more.
 
 After   took charge, the   was formed. It submitted a two-part report advocating for a scissor-free grading system. Despite 2017 having seen at least five major censorship rows with ‘The Argumentative Indian’, ‘Indu Sarkar’, ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal’, ‘1946 Calcutta Killings’ and ‘Shunyota’, nobody, including Benegal, seems to know what’s happening to his committee’s recommendations. “I called up joint secretary of I&B ministry Ashok Parmer to find out. He said, he would let me know,” Benegal said. Director Goutam Ghose, a part of Benegal’s committee, said, “Perhaps, the sluggish pace of the system is responsible for the delay in implementation.”
 
