NAGPUR: With just a week left for  , candidates of different parties and even independents in the fray are organizing ‘small’ get-togethers to familiarize themselves among voters. 

 Autorickshaws and cars strapped on with loud speakers are going around localities seeking votes from people, Distribution of pamphlets and door-to-door canvassing are the traditional modes of  , which are also being undertaken in almost all localities.
 
 TOI visited many areas like Satranjipura, Wardhaman Nagar, Ganpati Nagar, Takli Sim, Mominpura, Boriyapura etc and found these get-togethers were giving an opportunity to citizens for one-to-one interaction with the candidates. It has some practical advantages too.
 
 This time with four member ward system, the area a candidate has to serve has increased almost four times. Naturally, number of voters too is higher. The candidates are trying to reach every voter through door-to-door campaigns. “With many voters leaving for work early in the day, it is becoming difficult for the contestants to meet every voter. We campaign early in the morning but not much time is available. Mohalla meetings are turning out to be a good option for us,” a candidate told TOI.
 
 Most such meetings are being organized at night. Besides the biggest advantage of personal interaction with voters, these gatherings give the candidates an opportunity to assess which areas they are strong in. “Food and liquor are also arranged at such meetings. This is not seen as bribing voters. Instead, it is described as socializing that’s not connected to polls,” explained another candidate, who is holding such meetings in slum areas of  .
 
 The contestants go to such events with their loyalists at specific time in the night. They spend a few minutes with the partying locals, seek votes and move to the next venue. “That saves a lot of time,” said a candidate from Pardi area.
 
 Though it is expensive, the goal of every candidate is to emerge victorious and many are not hesitant to walk that extra mile in organizing such parties to woo voters.
 
