BENGALURU: A heart touching performance of the native song of Tibet by students from   in the city, a scintillating show of Drogshey – native dance of Nomet tribe from Tibet and a throng of jovial Tibetans had turned the otherwise quiet campus of Tibetan Youth Hostel in Koramangala 4th block all bright and pompous on Thursday morning. Reason: around 1,000 Tibetans had gathered together to celebrate 82nd birthday of His Holiness the Great, Dalai Lama.
 
 Everyone visiting the campus was greeted with smiling faces of young and old in their vibrant chupas – the native dress of Tibet along with a delicious piece of cake marking Dalai Lama’s birthday on July 6. What followed were a fun day with mind boggling performances of music, dance and flute, a game show on Tambola, cart playing, fishing and a fair exhibiting T-shirts with a touch of Tibetan ethnicity and ethnic jewelleries from Tibet.
  
 The visitors, all mesmerised with Dalai Lama’s ideals in life of keeping oneself and others happy, poured their heart out to TOI about how their lives changed after coming in touch with Dalai Lama’s presence.
  
 Ann Britto, a freelancer translator of languages and a resident of Banaswadi, said: “Dalai Lama has been the embodiment of love and compassion and a source of inspiration to become a better human being. We Indians owe him so much for preserving our Nalanda tradition.” 
 
 Ann had embraced Buddhism which according to her is a way of life that trains one’s mind to live at peace and enable others to stay in harmony. Not even a year till now she has missed Dalai Lama’s birthday celebration at the Tibetan Youth Hostel campus.
  
 For young students, Dalai Lama is the sole window of knowledge. “Dalai Lama represents the whole world for us. We cannot think of living our lives without his presence,” said Pema Choedon who is undertaking a year-long air hostess course from Franfinn Institution at Koramangala.
 
 For Lhamo Tsering, a second year student of graduation from Jyoti Nivas College, Dalai Lama is the constructor of her life. “He has taught me how to be compassionate, tolerant and how to spread non-violence among others around.”
  
 The major attraction of Dalai Lama’s 82nd birthday celebration was a group of 24 monks from monasteries at Bylakuppe – 223 kilometers away from the city that houses one of the oldest Tibetan settlements in the country. They were in-charge of conducting the morning prayers pleading for a long and healthy life of Dalai Lama.
  
 “These monks have been picked and brought to Bengaluru by His Holiness the Great, Dalai Lama to learn English. They are few of the brightest and wisest minds and have done doctorate on Buddhism. Soon after their training, they will be sent abroad to take care of several Buddhist centres all across the globe,” said Tenzin Norzom, a second year student of Journalism from Christ University.
  
 Organised by Chompel La, the chief representative, Central Tibetan Administration, Bangalore and Tibetan community residing in the city, the event was graced by Malini Krishnamoorthy, Additional Commissioner of Police, Bangalore City, TV Subbarao, director at National Law School of India (NLSIU), Bangalore and Pema Delek, Tibetan Parliament member.
 
