By 
 

 The   took advantage of a   order asking   to conduct   at   in the wake of the  .
 
 No wonder black-listed contractors manage to secure new work orders and a company specialising in road construction gets to build the city’s first penguins enclosure by producing fake testimonials from US companies. It is just so ridiculously easy to take BMC officials for a ride.
 
 On Thursday, a group of fraudsters posing as Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officers managed to fool BMC health officials into accompanying them to raid hospitals and clinics across Mankhurd and Govandi in north-east Mumbai, looking for, among other irregularities, fake doctors.
 
 Ten BMC officials spent a day raiding hospitals and clinics, seizing material, sealing establishments and filing cases against doctors without realising that the FDA officials leading the operation were fake and belonged to an unheard of “social” organisation called Food and Drugs Consumer Welfare Committee – in all probability a set up to extort money from unsuspecting doctors.
 
 The BMC’s gullibility and the raids would have gone unnoticed if Mumbai Mirror reporters had not called the FDA office in the evening to get details of the operation. Not only were FDA officials unaware of any raids in Mankhurd-Govandi areas, they said only preliminary discussions for such joint inspections have taken place with the BMC.
 
 The fraudsters took advantage of a circular from Directorate of Health Services, Maharashtra, asking municipal corporations to conduct month-long surprise visits starting March 15 at all nursing homes and private hospitals in the wake of the Sangli abortion racket. A homoeopath in Sangli’s Mhaisal village was recently arrested for carrying out illegal termination of pregnancies.
 
 The group of fraudsters led by Jayant Damgude, whose calling card identifies him as general secretary of Food and Drugs Consumer Welfare Committee, visited BMC’s M-east office in the morning and met Deputy Health Officer Samina Azhar Shaikh. He identified himself as an FDA officer and asked for her help in inspecting nursing homes, clinics, and small hospitals in the area.
 
 Shaikh claims that she called the ward’s Health Officer Sudhir Salunkhe, who asked her to provide the necessary help to the visitors. Shaikh attached one officer each from her office to eight of Damgude’s men. By evening, the eight teams had inspected nine clinics, seized drugs, issued notices to doctors, and sealed medical equipment.
 
 As red-faced BMC officials went scurrying to figure out how they could have been so easily fooled, BMC’s Executive Health Officer Padmaja Keskar promised to conduct an inquiry into the entire episode.
 
 When Mumbai Mirror contacted Damgude, he said his organisation’s help was sought by the BMC in carrying out the operation. BMC, however, denied this. Salunkhe said Damgude and his men had identified themselves as FDA officers at the Meast ward office.
 
 Damgude’s calling card mentions a Vikhroli address as the orgnisation’s registered office. When our reporter visited the address, it turned out to be a coaching class. The Fort office mentioned as the organisation’s office was locked and did not have any board identifying it as such.
 
  
  
 
 FDA Commissioner Harshadeep Kamble said no inspections were conducted by his office anywhere in Mumbai on Thursday. “We haven’t sent any such team to conduct raid in M east ward. I have never heard of Food and Drugs Consumer Welfare Committee. They do not have any role with FDA.”
 
