Amritsar: A section of Sikhs in Pakistan have objected to the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) Muslim chairman leading a delegation of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) to Canada and the USA to seek funds from the rich and influential Sikhs settled there to develop a gurdwara in Pakistan.

 “The ETPB had announced that the Pakistan government will construct one hundred rooms at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib. Now, its Muslim chairman has not only backed out from his promise but has announced to lead a delegation to Canada and the USA to collect donations. It is highly objectionable and is direct intervention of the ETPB in the Sikh religious affairs,” said a rights activist and president of Peshawar-based Khalsa Peace and Justice Foundation of Pakistan, Radesh Singh Tony, while talking to TOI on Friday.
 
 ETPB chairman Farooq-ul-Saddiq had recently visited Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib along with the board’s additional secretary Tariq Khan, PSGPC president Tara Singh and member, Punjab (Pakistan) Provincial Assembly Ramesh Singh Arora.
 
 On the occasion, Farooq had said that the ETPB had made a policy to facilitate Sikhs from across the world to perform ‘sewa’ (voluntary service) in gurdwaras of Pakistan.
 
 “Whosoever wants to do karsewa in Gurdwaras of Pakistan are welcome but they should bring their own money and spend it on their own. We will provide them with technical assistance only,” Farooq had said, adding that he would lead a delegation next month to convince Sikhs about the ETPB plans.
 
 “Legally, the ETPB and the PSGPC are two different bodies and the ETPB’s chairman has no right to take decision for the committee,” said a Pakistani Sikh advocate Hira Singh. Singh, who is also president of the Karachi-based Sri Guru Nanak Satsang Sabha, alleged that the Sikh leadership of the PSGPC had their own vested interests for remaining quite. “They draw salaries and enjoy other facilities provided to them by the ETPB,” he said.
 
 While cautioning the Sikhs living in the USA and Canada who may generously donate to the ETPB for the cause, Hira Singh alleged that funds could be embezzled as there was no transparency.
 
 Radesh Singh said they had also demanded Farooq’s resignation since he had failed to live up to the expectations of the minority communities.
 
 
