AHMEDABAD: To deal with increasingly frequent assaults on police personnel, police officials resorted to the " " way of dealing with the problem.   tied three accused persons together and paraded them in public for an hour at noon on Friday. Police said this was to teach the accused a lesson by publicly shaming them in the area where they are a menace. 

 Hundreds of locals gathered on the road to watch the accused being paraded through the streets with their hands folded and made to do sit-ups at regular intervals. The incident was reminiscent of the public shaming of accused that used to be common some 30 years ago.
 
 About half-an-hour into the parade, family members of the men being paraded gathered at Gaekwad Haveli police station and shouted slogans against police. The cops had to make them leave the police station premises.
 
 Rajkot police had recently paraded several history-sheeters. Some of them have even gone to court over the public humiliation they were put through.
 
 According to inspector V A Rathava of Gaekwad Haveli police station, five accused were arrested for assaulting policemen on February 1, 2017. "Of the five, Nasirkhan Pathan, Bhupendra Kahar and Ravi Kahar were paraded through the streets of Raikhad from Khamasa police chowky to where they live," added Rathava.
 
 Rathava added that the accused worked for two alleged bootleggers sisters Parsis and Marsis, who are still on the run. "Their accomplices Kamla alias Kali and Ashrafkhan Pathan were also arrested," Rathava added.
 
 On February 1, Lok Rakshak jawans Mitesh Bharwad, Anubhav Tejbahadur, Jagdish Chothabha and Surendrasinh Amrutsinh were attacked by the bootlegger sisters and their men Samir, Ravi, Lalo and Ashrafkhan when they went to arrest the sisters at Sultan Flats in Raikhad, on the direction of  . The cops were beaten with their own lathis and their shirts were torn.
 
 Inspector Rathva added that the accused would openly threaten cops. "They said the cops were no match for them as they had not even allowed agencies like city crime branch and prevention of crime branch to lay their hands on them. Hence there was a need to teach them a lesson," added Rathava.
 
