JAIPUR: Now,   has a distinction of having the biggest emergency unit in the state among child speciality hospitals. 

 According to the hospital administration, it has upgraded its emergency unit to accommodate 32 beds.
 
 Aiming to develop   Hospital as 'centre for excellence', the government is expanding facilities for the ailing children. Since the hospital is the biggest among all child speciality hospitals in the state, it required a bigger emergency unit.
 
 In this regard, the hospital has upgraded it emergency facilities. “Increased number of cases of food poisoning among children, patients with diarrhoea and other stomach-related emergencies are reported during its outbreak. In such situation, we require a bigger emergency unit. Earlier, we had emergency unit, which has less than 10 beds. For better emergency care, we require emergency unit which should have at least 32 beds,” JK Lon superintendent Dr   said.
 
 He said that the new emergency unit is 32-bedded probably the largest in the state. It has a free access from JLN Road. “It has facility for emergency ventilation and monitoring. Each bed is supported with central oxygen and suction,” Dr Gupta said, adding that it has facility for resuscitation and emergency care of the new born. For newborn care, radiant baby warmer has also been made available.
 
 Moreover, the emergency unit is equipped with operation Theatre and backed up with an emergency lab. In case, a patient requires a surgery, the facility for operation theatre is made available within the emergency unit. 
 
 The emergency unit is staffed round the clock with a teaching faculty, post MD Senior Resident and a junior resident along with adequate number of nurses.
 
 The new emergency is a two storey building with facility of lift (elevators). It is connected with the main building of the hospital through a flyover for shifting the patient from emergency to wards. The building is equipped with ACs.
 
 Besides, upgrading emergency unit, the hospital is planning to develop a separate cancer care unit soon. Developing super speciality facilities is the focus of the hospital. Recently, it has introduced haemodialysis for children with renal failures.
 
 
