THALASSERY: The   handed over the probe into the murder of Fazal to the   after observing that police failed to conduct an impartial investigation under the political climate prevailing in the state at the time.

 Justice V Ramkumar, who delivered the verdict on November, 3, 2008, observed that the police probe so far was far from satisfactory . By the time police had arrested three CPM men including Kodi Suni in the case.
 
 The police version was that the CPM had animosity towards Fazal, who was a party worker, after he joined the NDF and was canvassing subscription for Thejas daily , which adversely affected the circulation of the party mouthpiece Deshabhimani.
 
 But the high court discounted the police theory . “A perusal of the case diary files suggests that there has not been any intelligent investigation so as to converge on the three accused persons...No investigation appears to have been conducted to pinpoint and confirm the identity of A1 to A3 (CPM men) as the assailants of Fazal. Even the witnesses by name Abdulla and Lulu Marjan who had allegedly witnessed the occurrence in dim light have not identified the assailants,“ the court said.
 
 It further noted that “there is no evidence forthcoming to show the conspiracy hatched to assassinate Fazal against whom the local CPM activist had an axe to grind for his defection from the Marxist Party."
 
 Based on the statements of the accused, police had recovered weapons allegedly used by the assailants from an open place near the Pankaj Talkies near Temple Gate many months after the incident. But the court had expressed doubt on the authenticity of the recovery .
 
 “The story of Section 27 recovery of the weapons from an open com pound adjacent to the Pankaj Talkies after months of the occurrence is too good to be believed,“ the court observed. But the same story of recovery of weapons reappeared in the chargesheet submitted the CBI.
 
 “The CBI has just parroted the police story. The agency has not moved an inch forward,“ said Abdul Rehman, elder brother of Fazal. “I demanded for a CBI probe hoping that the central agency will find the real culprits, but I am totally dejected," he said.
 
 Abdul Rehman said CBI had recorded his statement wrongly in the charge-sheet. “I have also applied for a copy of Subeesh's confession under the Right to Information Act. I want the CBI to conduct a re-investigation in the case to nab the real culprits and I will go to any extent to achieve the goal," he said.
 
 Sudheesh Minni, former RSS cadre who have joined the CPM, told TOI that he knew the operations behind the Fazal murder. “I have briefly mentioned it in my book on the role of the RSS. Subeesh is only a pawn in the operation,“ he said.
 
 Sudheesh said it was an RSS leader from Gopalapetta who identified Fazal as a good target. “But the actual conspiracy was hatched in the house of a Sangh Parivar leader at Aralam,“ he said. The CPM's influence among the Muslims was a cause of concern for the Sang Parivar in Thalassery . “They devised a strategy to murder Fazal and put the blame on the CPM," Sudheesh said.
 
