Every year when the Karnataka and BBMP budgets come out, a lot of vigorous public debate takes place on what this means for namma Bengaluru’s present and future. The city enjoys one of the most vibrant civil societies in the country – with a host of researchers, activists and do-ers. Much debate takes place on whether government plans and initiatives are effective, and whether the real challenge was planning or implementation or systemic corruption.

 Unfortunately, all participants in these discussions, myself included, are like the blind men of the Indian folk tale — trying hard to understand the elephant that is the Bengaluru government without a clue of its entire shape. Like those blind men, each of us has only the limited amount of information the government makes available and our understanding is based on that partial knowledge.
 
 It is easy to mistake Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, or the city corporation, for the Bengaluru government. It should be, but it isn’t. The BBMP is perhaps the ailing heart of this lumbering elephant of a city. Other parts of the elephant are the state government agencies and departments — Bescom is the electricity supply company, BWSSB or Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board manages water and sanitation, BDA and BMRDA compete on land use planning, Namma Metro (also known as BMRCL) and BMTC provide transport, Bangalore city and traffic police maintain some law and order, KSCB drives slum redevelopment. I can go on, but elephants take a while to describe — and the profusion of abbreviations doesn’t make it easier.
 
 We are all blind, because the budgets and financial flows are exceedingly complex, and the Karnataka government makes little effort to simplify it all. First, many agencies like BWSSB, Bescom and Metro have independent budgets, with only grants and loans linking them to the state budgets. Some agencies like BWSSB still have old, insufficient accounting systems that are completely hidden from public view.
 
 Second, many government departments — such as regional transport offices (RTOs) of the transport department, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and Lake Development Authority (LDA) in the environment department — spend significant resources on Bengaluru. But this expenditure is never calculated independent of their work outside the city. Third, the  , while wonderfully detailed on many aspects, does not attempt to show how much exactly it is giving as grants and loans to each state agency, and for what.
 
 The blind folk of Bengaluru get glimpses of vision when big projects or schemes are in the spotlight. More is known about a central project like JNNURM or a proposal like the steel flyover than about the many smaller projects that have direct impact on our daily lives.
 
 The blindness is at every scale. At the highest level, nobody really knows how much the Karnataka government spends on Bengaluru, and how much income Bengaluru generates for Karnataka. At the lowest level, we struggle to find out how much it cost to cover the drains on our streets, and how much property tax each locality generates.
 
 This impaired vision has been untreated for far too long, and it’s led to chronic disease in the city government. The single biggest budget reform the Karnataka government can do for the city is carve out a comprehensive Bengaluru metropolis budget. The city is home to one in five people in the state, and is responsible for the prosperity of many more — budgetary reform is but the first step. We need to be able to see everything clearly. We need better glasses and a lot more sunlight.
 
 (The author is fellow and faculty at Takshashila Institution)
 
