MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday said that a police officer cannot testify confessions made to him by an approver in the  . The court allowed petitions filed by Peter Mukerjea and wife Indrani, both accused of conspiring and murdering Sheena, her biological daughter from a former relationship, to prevent a police officer from testifying details of disclosures made by an approver, in this case their driver. The trial into the April 24, 2012 murder case had begun this February but has been on hold after Peter and Indrani moved HC to set aside an order of trial judge H S Mahajan who had ta ken Ganesh Dalvi's testi mony partly on record.

 The husband-wife accu sed duo wanted the HC to “prevent miscarriage of justice“.
 
 The court directed that the trial could resume. The trial will now restart after appointment of a special judge, which is awaited after CBI judge Mahajan's transfer.
 
 Justice Sadhana Jadhav began dictating the order on Wed nesday . The order comes as a relief to the Mukerjeas as CBI counsel Bharat Badami had brought in as its first witness Khar police officer Dalvi who had recorded an FIR based on a statement by Indrani's driver Shyamwar Rai in 2015. Rai had been arrested on August 21, 2015 for illegal possession of a firearm. That's when he allegedly recounted to Dalvi details of the Sheena murder, including the alleged role of Indrani and her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna. Rai, also a co-accused in the murder case later was allowed to turn approver and stands as a crucial prosecution witness against the three accused. When the trial began on Fe bruary 23, just as Dalvi began recounting in the trial court what Rai had told him, Peter's counsel Shrikant Shivade objected, as did Sudeep Pasbola, Indrani's lawyer. The objection was on the grounds that such deposition would be inadmissible as evidence. In HC, at the hearing on Wednesday , Justice Jadhav asked CBI why it wanted to examine the police officer as first witness. If there were any contradictions later in Rai's statement as approver, how would that be tackled, she said, adding CBI could not bring approver's confession on record through the cop.
 
