GUWAHATI: The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of   (NSCN-IM) has reignited the row over the Framework Agreement it signed with the Centre in 2015.
 
  In a statement issued after electing its office-bearers in Camp Hebron on Thursday, the outfit claimed that the Centre had recognised the ‘legitimate right’ of the Nagas for integration of all Naga territories.
  
  “The historic Framework Agreement recognises the unique history, the identity, the sovereignty and the territories of the Nagas. It also recognises the legitimate right of the Nagas for integration of all Naga territories.
  
  It also says ‘co-existence of the two entities and share-sovereignty of the two entities’. The agreement does not betray the principle. It is one of the strong foundations for amicable solutions for the Nagas at this given point of time, rejection of which will take the Nagas back to far behind others,” the statement said.
  
  Integration of Naga dominated areas of  , Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur has been a contentious issue in all three states, with non-Naga groups opposed to it. It was a major election issue in the recent  .
  
  The Framework Agreement will safeguard the present and the future of the Nagas, the outfit said and added that it will give the Nagas maximum sovereign power to grow into a developed political   and it will also strengthen India’s security.
  
  Speaking at the NSCNIM’s headquarter in Nagaland’s Camp Hebron, Muivah said that after years of negotiations, for the first time in history, the Centre had recognised the unique history and sovereign   of the Nagas.
  
  The path for Nagas future has been set through the signing of the Framework Agreement. He said the Centre has recognised the integration of Nagas as the legitimate rights of the Nagas basing on Naga history.
  
  “We have agreed that integration should not be through military but democratic process and at the earliest.” The outfit elected vice-chairman Kholi Konyak and general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah for another term of six years at its council meeting.
