LUCKNOW: The   he had honed over decades proved to be of little help when Zubair Khan, a   worker, got onto the drivers’ seat of an   and began ferrying passengers through the bylanes of Old Lucknow two weeks ago. With seven mouths to feed, Khan had little option but to take to the new job. 

 Khan is among thousands of zardozi workers in the city who are forced to seek other sources of employment after the implementation of Goods and   hit the already struggling trade and made the orders dry up. 
 
 On Monday, these   took to the streets to express their resentment against  . The silent march, which started from Clock Tower in the Old City, saw the turnout of over 2,500 people associated with the craft. 
 
 Mohd Dilshad, a third-generation zardozi worker, now sells gas and fuel burners by the roadside. 
 
 “Six members of my family, including my sisters and mother, were engaged in embroidery work. We were together able to make Rs 4500 to 5000 per month. But now, I’m the only one earning for the family. Over the past few weeks, I have barely made few hundreds. The situation is very difficult and there is little hope of things getting any better,” said Dilshad. 
 
 Similarly, Viqar, a 40-year-old karigar gets up every morning and leaves the house in search for some daily wage work. “Sometimes I work with street food vendors and on other days at puncture shops. There are also days when nobody employs me. Even when I find work, I earn just Rs 50-70 rupees in a day which isn’t enough to provide for my four kids. Now my wife too also started working as a maid servant,” he said.
 
 Raza Imam, a zardozi supervisor said a lot of workers have quit the work in past two weeks. “Earlier, I had over 100 karigars, but now, 80% of them have left their family profession. The move is justified because at the end of the day, people need food that only comes from money. The zardozi work right now is giving them no money at all.” 
 
 While it has hitting the workers, imposition of GST on the handicraft and raw materials required for it has led to a 30% rise in the cost of the garments too. 
 
 
