PUNE: From April, the state police department will adopt a new 'road accident recording form' that will specify weather conditions, road drivability and even the GPS coordinates of the spot where the accident took place, among other minute details.

 For the transition to happen, workshops are being currently held to train ground-level police force in objective reporting.
 
 The new format has been recommended by an expert committee set up by the ministry of  . The committee was headed by senior adviser of the ministry's transport research wing and also comprised experts from IIT Delhi, IIT Kharagpur, WHO, senior officers from the police and transport departments of states and ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 Currently, recording of accident data is done through first information reports (FIR) at police stations, which are liable to be subjective. The committee had expressed apprehensions about limited technical understanding of police officers recording the data. They may not recognize the role of road engineering defects and the nature of impacting vehicles among others that may have caused the accident, they observed. As a result, these aspects have been included in the new format.
 
 Satish Mathur, state's director general of police, said, “While there are no lacunae in the existing procedure, this detailed format will help to further speed up accident-related insurance claims. It's an integrated form and we are trying to keep it as simple as possible for the police department.“
 
 Also, the committee has developed a corresponding an nual  , which will include 17 forms to aid analysis of cause of accidents, identify black spots and taking corrective steps to eliminate the same.
 
 Geetam Tiwari, a professor at IIT Delhi and member of the expert committee, said she hopes the revised format would help bring about systemic changes in dealing with roadaccident cases. “Till now, most accidents are blamed on rash or negligent driving. By identifying and learning from specific conditions around the accident spot, such as poor streetlighting, inoperational traffic signals or even a flaw in the road design, we can hope to reduce road fatalities in the years ahead,“ she added.
 
