RANCHI: Momentum Jharkhand, the state government's maiden Global Investors Summit (GIS), is set to attract the country's top industrialists. 

 Hectic preparations are on to host Mukesh Ambani, Ratan Tata, Gautam Adani, Kumar Mangalam Birla and other renowned entrepreneurs from across the country. 
 
 The Raghubar Das government expects investment proposals worth Rs 3 lakh crores during the summit to be held here on February 16 and 17. Power, steel, textile, telecommunications and IT are some of the sectors that may get maximum attention during the meet.
 
 Sources in the state, industries, mines and geology department said Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of Tata Sons, has confirmed his participation at the summit. Tata Steel managing director TV Narendran will also be present.
 
 Chairman of Jindal Steel and Power Naveen Jindal, JSW Group of Companies chairman Sajjan Jindal, ITC chief operating officer Sanjeev Puri, Tech Mahindra boss Jagdish Mitra, Hindalco MD Satish Pai and Essar boss Sashi Ruia are among the top industrialists taking part in the meet.
 
 Speaking to TOI, additional chief secretary industries, mines and geology Sunil Kumar Burnwal on Monday said the state government are trying to confirm the presence of   chairman Mukesh Ambani and his brother, Anil. "Some invitees may not come because of prior commitments. But we want to have as many top industrialists as possible," he added. 
 
 The heads of Indian conglomerates are part of the   (JIPB) as advisers. The state government has sought their suggestions in formulating new policies in IT, MSME and other sectors and has also taken their views on its land-acquisition measures.
 
 Heads of several overseas companies have agreed to attend the event. The CEO of  , managing director of Japan's   Hideki Ogawa and others will also be present at the summit. Many industrialists from South Korea and Czech Republic are likely to attend the meeting, government officials said. 
 
 "The objective of the meet is to have as many investment proposals as possible. We will try to present the ground reality of the state and tell them about the policies and ease of doing business initiatives," Burnwal said. 
 
