GHAZIABAD: The issue of   is caught in a maze and is eluding a solution despite repeated complaints by residents.

 Residents of the township have told GDA such a dense cluster of   around residential societies also acts as a shelter for drug peddlers, snatchers and thieves. They also complained that a number of street vendors occupied a significant amount of road space, cycle tracks and footpaths around parks, causing traffic snarls on the roads.
 
 The regular anti-encroachment drives conducted by the enforcement department of the   (GDA) and police have proved inadequate. When an association of street vendors in Indirapuram approached the Allahabad high court against the GDA for its moves against the vendors, the court ordered the GDA to form a street vending committee for to designate a vending zone where they could be relocated and to regulate their numbers. It also ordered the GDA to play the role of a municipal corporation till such time that the Indirapuram zone is handed over to the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) for maintenance.
 
 On the other hand, The Street Vendors (Protection Of Livelihood And Regulation Of Street Vending) Act, 2014, forbids any authority from removing or relocating a street vendor before conducting a proper survey of vendors and issuing them vending certificates.
 
 The process is now stuck as the Indirapuram developmental area does not have sufficient space to provide a separate vending zone as it is already short of space for further development.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ishtiyak Ahmed, chief town planner of GDA, said its officials have conducted meetings with various stakeholders on the issue and formed a committee for conducting a survey of vendors. Ahmed said that lack of adequate space was the major obstacle to a solution. “Letting them conduct business on demarcated roads seems to be the only feasible way but nothing has been finalised yet. The issues will be further discussed in the meetings of the vending committee," Ahmed said.
 
 The legal stalemate, in the meantime, has led to a decline in the frequency of anti-encroachment campaigns.
 
