
My books tell stories, but what stories, meanwhile, do my covers tell? 
 
 Upon close inspection, my covers tend perfectly to mirror my own double identity, bifurcated, disputed. As a result they are often projections, conjectures. All my life I have been in conflict between two different identities, both imposed. No matter how I try to free myself from this conflict, I find myself, as a writer, caught in the same trap.
 
 For some publishing houses, my name and photograph are enough to quickly commission a cover that teems with stereotyped references to India: elephants, exotic flowers, henna-painted hands, the  , religious and spiritual symbols. No one considers that the greater part of my stories are set in the  , and therefore pretty far from the river Ganges.
 
 Once, after I complained that the cover of a book in which the protagonist was born and raised in the United States seemed too “exotic,” that a less “oriental” approach was better suited, the publisher removed the image of an enchanting Indian building and replaced it with an American flag. From one stereotype, that is, to another.
 
 
  
 
 For me, therefore, a wrong jacket is not just an aesthetic issue, because it retriggers a series of anxieties felt ever since I was a child. Who am I? How am I seen, dressed, perceived, read? I write not only to avoid the question, but also to seek the answer.
 
 I have the good fortune to have been translated into several foreign languages. Given that I am now the author of five books, I would guess that this means, in all, around one hundred different book covers. One hundred different interpretations.
 
 If I place the different jackets of just one of my books all in a row, it becomes obvious how they change in tone, spirit, identity.
 
 I see a lively one, a gloomy one, a bright one. I see birds of various kinds. I see designs, both intricate and minimalist. I see a jacket with just the title, my name, and nothing else. I see explicit allusions to the political aspects of the novel—guns, the hammer and sickle. I see landscapes that evoke Calcutta, and I see a bunch of flowers on a table. I see two boys who are diving into water.
 
 On the one hand, it is lovely to see them together, to take in the abundance of styles, the variety. On the other, I ask myself: How is it possible that one book, the same book, can generate this panorama of images? All of these covers have been inspired by the same story. Translations notwithstanding, every sentence is the same. And yet they seem like twelve different books, with twelve diverging themes, written by twelve different authors.
 
 The differences also reflect each nation’s identity and collective taste. It is very rare for the editor of my book in one country to like the book jacket of another. They usually say, politely, “how interesting,” then add that it would never work in their country, for their readers. A cover that one person cherishes is devoid of meaning to another. What does this mean? I fear that, even in a globalized world, it signals an inability to recognize oneself in the other. Like the language in which the text is written, the book jacket can constitute a barrier.
 
 — Excerpted from The Clothing of Books with permission from Penguin Random House
 
  
