IMPHAL: The   are headed for a straight contest for the   to the lone   of the state, slated for May 25. The ruling party has fielded state unit president   while Congress has pitched senior leader and ex-MLA Elangbam Dwijamani Singh. The by-election was necessitated after the   on February 28 this year after a brief illness. 

 The Congress candidate, a close aide to former CM Okram Ibobi Singh, is likely to face an uphill task with all of BJP's coalition partners in the state backing the ruling party's candidate. Kshetrimayum Bhabananda Singh, who was appointed state BJP unit president last year, came to the limelight after the party overthrew Congress's 15-year regime in the last assembly polls held in March.
 
 On Monday, the last day of filing of nomination papers, the two submitted their respective nomination papers to the Returning Officer, M Ramani Devi, who is also the secretary of the legislative assembly. The papers would be put up for scrutiny on Tuesday and withdrawal of candidature would have to be before 3 pm the following day.
 
 "As all the coalition partners including NPP, NPF and the independent MLA have vowed to support us, we are fully confident of grabbing the Rajya Sabha seat in the coming by-election," state unit BJP general secretary N Nimbus Singh told TOI. 
 
 The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), in its state executive committee meeting, has resolved to extend support to any candidate fielded by the BJP for the Rajya Sabha by-election. The decision was made taking into account the all-round development taken up in a fast manner by the BJP-led government in the state, said LJP spokeman N Ibohal Meetei.
 
 BJP, which won 21 seats in the 60-member assembly in the just concluded polls, now has 28 legislators in the assembly after six Congress MLAs defected to the party and the lone Trinamool Congress legislator joined as well. The BJP-led coalition government has 38 MLAs, including four MLAs each from the NPP and NPF, the lone winner of LJP and the independent MLA, while the opposition Congress that won 28 seats has now 22 MLAs.
 
 On Sunday, chief minister   convened a meeting with the MLAs of all alliance partners of his government to discuss the upcoming by-election, a source said.
 
 
