KOCHI: The special investigation team probing the conspiracy behind the   recorded the statement of  ,   on Friday at the Ernakulam guest house.

 The MLA was one of the first to arrive at director Lal's house where the survivor was dropped after the assault. The questioning continued for about three hours from about 12 in the noon.
 
 “I had given a complaint to the CM about Suni's involvement in instances of   and about him having  . I had also complained about him trying to abduct two other actresses but there was no response at all on these complaints. These issues would be raised in the upcoming assembly session,“ the MLA said.
 
 “If there are any faults in the probe then, a CBI investigation can be conducted. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had said that the CM's comment that there was no conspiracy in the case was to arrest the real culprits. It is a farce. If the CBI had launched a probe then the CM would have been asked to give an explanation,“ said the MLA.
 
 The MLA had said an information handed over by a Palakkad native who overheard a phone conversation was crucial in the investigation.
 
 “A co-passenger of a female advocate had given informa tion about what he overheard while he was in a train to Thiruvananthapuram. The police had then questioned the advocate. It is yet to be known whether the police looked at it,“ the MLA said.
 
 The MLA gave the statement before the investigating officer Baiju Paulose. He refused to divulge the details of the interrogation after the questioning.
 
 Meanwhile, the SIT interrogated Raju Joseph, the junior of Prathesh Chacko, Suni's former counsel again on Friday . Pratheesh Chacko was arrested on Thursday and was released on bail. SIT is also investigating whether the phone used by Suni to record the crime was destroyed by the duo. Meanwhile, the central police have got custody of Pulsar lice have got custody of Pulsar Suni's four co-accused in the 2011 actor abduction bid case till Monday .
 
 Hearing on Suni's bail plea was postponed to Monday by the Angamaly first class judicial magistrate court. A bail objection report filed at the court stated that Suni and his accomplice inside the jail used to hide the phone they used to contact Dileep's aides in the cells and the jail kitchen. Also, the shoe in which the phone was smuggled into the jail was burnt, the report stated.
 
 Police stated in the report that Dileep, the 11th accused, who was arrested based on Suni's statement, and who is seeking bail, is a popular film actor and there is a chance of the accused colluding with the 11th accused and influencing and threatening witnesses and thereby affecting the probe if he is granted bail.
 
