Nagpur: “Cinema is an experience in totality,” said professor Samar Nakhate, former dean of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), during the workshop ‘Understanding cinema’. Organized by the Orange City Cultural Foundation, the one-day workshop introduced participants not only to the important facets of filmmaking, but also film-viewing, thus helping to enrich one’s perspective of  . 

 The event was organized at Kavi Kulguru Kalidas Auditorium, Persistent Systems, on Sunday morning. Dr Jabbar Patel, director of Orange City International Film Festival (OCIFF), who turned 75 on June 23, was felicitated on the occasion. A small clip on the director was also showed. 
 
 Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram announced that the second edition of OCIFF will be held from February 1 to 4, 2018. Nagpur University (NU) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation will also be collaborating in organizing the festival, in which over 20 unreleased films will be shown.
 
 NU VC SP Kane was the chief guest at the event. “It is an honour in itself to share the dais with eminent personalities like Dr Patel and Nakhate. I have been fond of watching films since when I was child as even my parents enjoyed cinema a lot. I have been a witness to the increasing influence of films owing to changing technology,” he said. Mayor Nanda Jichkar was also present among others.
 
 Sharing his thoughts, Dr Patel said that the years in one’s life are not as important as the way those years are lived. “Bengali and Marathi theatre have always been forward. Training yourself to understand cinema and educating oneself in cinema are two different things,” he said, elaborating the curriculum of film institutes in Pune. 
 
 Dr Patel then spoke about the role of a production designer in making a film, adding that planning the budget of a film to each frame has made the process of filmmaking clinically efficient.
 
 Taking over, Nakhate began the workshop by saying that image-making established a relation between a person and the world. “Vision means not just to see, but to develop spatial art. Screen language is a nearly 120 years old subject which needs to be made a part of interdisciplinary studies,” he said.
 
 Nakhate screened a few short-films such as ‘Darshan’, Iranian film ‘Chorus’, ‘Lapandaav’, ‘Ankhon dekhi’ and more, taking the audience through concepts such as structural logic, narration, plot, and so on. “Cinema cannot be taken as an isolated form of art; rather, it is collaborative art. It is dictated by the prevailing culture,” Nakhate said.
 
 
