MARGAO: The directorate of urban development, in a recent order dated March 1, directed the   (MMC) to give effect to its council decision “to make the necessary arrangement of some portion of the existing burial/cremation grounds (in the city) for person professing any faith or arrange for separate common burial ground.” 

 The directorate, in the order, also directed that the two orders passed by the MMC based on the council resolutions, which were later withdrawn following objections from certain quarters, be restored. 
 
 The MMC had issued an order dated August 16, 2016, conveying the decision of the council to reserve one wing (1st wing) out of the four wings of the   cemetery at Aquem for those persons professing any faith. 
 
 The MMC had then issued another order dated September 16, 2016, addressed to the managing authority of all cemeteries/crematoria within its jurisdiction “to make the necessary arrangement by either demarcating some portion of the existing ground for any person professing any faith or arrange for a separate common burial/cremation grounds within their cemetery/crematorium.” 
 
 However, subsequently, the MMC issued an order dated October 3, 2016, mentioning that the both the earlier orders dated August 16, 2016, and September 16, 2016, stood withdrawn with immediate effect. The decision was challenged by a Margao resident Vincente Andrade, represented by advocate late Satish Sonak, before the directorate of urban development. 
 
 The MMC, in its submission before the directorate of urban development said that “the statutory duty of having a common burial place and cremation site for persons of all faith is being taken up with the seriousness the issue deserves” and added that it was following up with the South Goa and Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) “in getting the outline development plan approved” to set up a permanent burial facility for people of all or no faith.
 
 Director of urban development  , while passing his order, said that “the fact that there is no concrete action plan submitted by the (MMC) to provide suitable facility for cremation/burial of such people belonging to any of the faiths or none of the faiths, till the permanent facility is set up, is not acceptable.”
 
 “The order dated October 3, 2016, issued by the (MMC) withdrawing the earlier orders dated August 16, 2016, and September 16, 2016, giving effect to the decision taken by the council amounts to nullifying the decision taken by the council without the same being discussed by the council. Considering the above and also taking into account the responsibility cast upon the Council for providing suitable facilities for disposal of dead bodies irrespective of the religion or faith followed by them, the order dated October 3, 2016, issued by the (MMC) herein is set aside and the (MMC) is directed to give effect to the order dated September 16, 2016 and dated September 16, 2016 giving effect to the decision taken by the Council,” the directorate of urban development state.
 
