BENGALURU: Jailed AIADMK general secretary Sasikala’s lawyers are seeking her transfer from Bengaluru’s   jail to Chennai’s Puzhal Central Prison.

 “We are in such a position that we can neither confirm nor deny the information. All that I can say is that we want   to be shifted from Bengaluru to Chennai and have commenced the process,” a senior AIADMK functionary told TOI on Monday. 
 
 AIADMK spokesperson Avadi Kumar said it was a deserving case and the lawyers were rightfully seeking her transfer. “The effort to shift Sasikala is as per the provision under law,” Kumar said.
 
 On February 14, the Supreme Court had upheld the conviction of Sasikala and her relatives J Ilavarasi and V N Sudhakaran in the disproportionate assets case.
 
 As per the procedures, Sasikala’s lawyers have to apply either to the superintendent of Parappana Agrahara jail or approach the Karnataka law minister. “It is up to the consent of the two states. We will move the plea to   which will in turn forward our request to the Tamil Nadu government,” said N D S Kulasekharan, Sasikala’s counsel.
 
 A senior official said the law ministry is looking into the legal options. “It’s sort of an unprecedented case and we need to examine all options. We have to find out whether Sasikala can directly approach the Karnataka government or she has to come to us through the court. We haven’t been approached yet,” officials said. 
 
 B V Acharya, the special public prosecutor in the DA case, said according to the jail manual, shifting a prisoner could be decided among the top officials of the two prisons. “However, Sasikala’s case is different. She has been imprisoned in the Karnataka jail as per the directions of the Supreme Court. According to me, she cannot be shifted without the SC’s permission. If they do so without informing the apex court, then it can be challenged,” said Acharya. 
 
 
 
 “We are considering moving the Supreme Court with a review petition. The nitty-gritties are being worked out,” said Sasikala’s counsel. She has to file a review petition within 30 days from the pronouncement of the verdict. 
 
 “Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami wanted to meet Sasikala soon after the swearing-in but was asked by Sasikala to wait,” sources said.
 
 
 
 AIADMK deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran on Monday met Sasikala at Parappana Agrahara jail. Nephew of Sasikala, Dinakaran was appointed the party deputy general secretary soon after her conviction. Sources said the two had an hour-long discussion.
 
 Education minister   and forest minister Dindigul Srinivasan are expected to meet Sasikala on Tuesday.
 
