JAIPUR:  , arrested by the   on Saturday for duping a city girl of Rs 1 lakh, has revealed that as many as 100 foreign nationals staying in Delhi and Noida are running   of   though which they cheat people, mostly women, through  .

 Kunwar Rashtradeep, deputy commissioner of police (Jaipur east), told TOI that initial interrogation with Solomon, and his Indian aide Kaushal Gutpa has revealed that about 100 foreign nationals, most of them from African countries, are allegedly running a widespread racket of cyber fraud from different pockets of Delhi and NCR. 
 
 “When we quizzed Solomon, he said that about 100 foreign nationals are involved in operating multiple gangs with the help of localites. Many of these foreign nationals are based in Delhi and NCR and have overstayed their visa limits,” Rastradeep told TOI, adding that a letter will be sent to Delhi police informing them about the presence of suspected cyber frauds under different parts Delhi and Noida.
 
 While Jaipur police is yet to confirm the claims made by the accused, cops said that in the past, special cell of Delhi police had busted similar gangs which duped women through online dating and matrimonial website. The special cell of Delhi police in July 2015 had busted a similar gang and arrested three African nationals for allegedly conning women through same matrimonial website.
 
 Solomon (41), a resident of Lagos in Nigeria, had come to India on tourist visa which expired eight months ago. Police have found several mobile sim cards of different countries like UK from his possession. Solomon is suspected to have duped over Rs 10 lakh people across the country. 
 
 “Solomon posed himself as one Kelvin, a wealthy UK-based entrepreneur. He copied pictures of other people from social media accounts and befriended girls on matrimonial websites,” Rashtradeep said. Later, he would chat with his targets on WhatsApp and tell them anecdotes of his extravagant lifestyle in UK. 
 
 The accused copied pictured of luxury houses, villas and cars from internet and posted them on his profile on matrimonial websites. “At a later stage, he would exchange phone numbers with the target. Since Solomon used UK mobile number, the girl would also be convinced,” Rashtradeep said.
 
 Later, the accused would call the target and inform her that he was coming to India with expensive gifts. “A few days later, they used to claim that they had been booked by the customs officials at the airport, and money needed to be transferred as penalty for customs tax deduction,” Rashtradeep said.
 
