 Ajit Andhare, the COO of   Motion Pictures, on what the studio plans to offer to its audience over the next few months... 

 
 Our vision has been consistent — to back unconventional cinema. At the heart of our vision is a desire to create movies that break away from stereotypes. We’ve always looked at flipping the equation. When the industry focussed on heroes, we made films centred on heroines. When the norm was to make gangster films based on the Mumbai underworld, we made 'Gangs Of Wasseypur'. Our narratives have ranged from biopics like 'Bhaag Milkha Bhaag' and 'Mary Kom', and films inspired by real incidents like 'Madras Café' to standout thrillers like 'Drishyam'. Our 2017 slate, that features 'Toilet – Ek Prem Katha', ' ' and 'Lucknow Central', takes this vision forward.
 
 
 Big and small are simplistic labels to look at films in a nuanced way. For us, the story comes first. 'Padmavati' calls for a certain scale, cast and mounting. 'Toilet – Ek Prem Katha' is entertaining and ‘big’ in a different way. 'Lucknow Central' is unconventional too. The balance should be between genres rather than size.
 
 
 Ours is the only studio that plays in three major markets. We run a successful Hindi film business, an English slate through our Paramount alliance and we are poised to make a mark in regional markets like Marathi and Bengali. Our body of work stands out from the mainstream. The industry tends to overlook the key role we’ve played in shaping the renaissance of Bollywood. Our films, about 50 and counting, are atypical. We’ve innovated our way of working with talent. With a star like  , we went made films like 'Special 26', 'OMG! Oh My God' and 'Toilet – Ek Prem Katha'. The Kalpana Chawla biopic will go into a world that Hindi films haven’t explored. Sriram Raghavan’s next is a thriller that explores a unique theme.   brings Manto to life. We’ve made a mark in the last six-seven years by sticking to an unconventional path, forming a new normal that has shaped the industry. We see ourselves as content makers and so, we’re also working on big ticket web series through our brand Tipping Point. 
 
  
  
 
 The unconventional romance is among the studio’s most-sought after presentations. The Akshay Kumar-Bhumi Pednekar-starrer that releases on August 11 is the studio’s first collaboration with Kriarj Entertainment. The satire, directed by newcomer Shree Narayan Singh, is co-produced by Neeraj Pandey and traces Keshav and Jaya’s romance, set against the backdrop of the age-old problem of open defecation in our country. 
 
  
  
 
 
 The historical magnum opus, that opens in November 2017, toplines  ,   and Shahid Kapoor. The film, directed and produced by Sanjay Leela Bhansali, at the cusp of scoring a box office hattrick, promises a visual treat and a trip back in time. The film traces Raja Rawal Ratan Singh’s love story with his wife Rani Padmavati, and emperor Alaudin Khilji’s lust for the Queen of Mewar. 
 
 
 
 The studio has joined hands with Nikhil Advani’s Emmay Entertainment and Motion Pictures for this film that releases on September 15. It’s set against the backdrop of a jail and stars   and Diana Penty. It narrates a quirky and inspiring tale of a small town man, whose circumstances land him in jail. Inspired by true incidents, the film brings alive a prison sentence, where friendships were forged, enemies fought and dreams took flight. 
 
 
 
 Nandita Das’ Manto throws light on the life of Sadat Hasan Manto, one of the most irreverent story writers of his times. He left his glorious days in Bombay of yore and moved to Lahore. Here’s the tale of two emerging nations, faltering cities, and a man trying to make sense of it all. Nawazuddin Siddiqui plays Manto while Rasika Dugal plays his wife. This is the studio’s first collaboration with HP Inc. that has recently launched its content arm, HP Studios, and is co-produced by FilmZtoc. 
 
  
 
 In a bid to revisit a tough genre, the studio, along with Matchbox Pictures is backing director Sriram Raghavan’s next, a taut, unconventional thriller. Applauded for edge-of-the-seat films like Badlapur and Johnny Gaddaar, Sriram’s film featuring Ayushmann Khurrana, has gone on floors. 
 
 
 
 A girl from Karnal went to the US, pursued a degree in aerospace engineering at the University of Texas and joined NASA. She was part of the seven-member contingent that went aboard space shuttle Columbia that met with a tragic end on its re-entry into the earth’s atmosphere. Kalpana Chawla’s biopic, touted to be one of the most ambitious projects by far, brings to life the story of the first female astronaut of Indian-origin. 
 
 
  
 Here’s a nail-biting fantasy titled 'The House Next Door' in partnership with Etaki Entertainment Production. It follows the lives of Krish and Lakshmi, who are madly in love. Their perfect life begins to fall apart when a family moves into the house next door. Directed by Milind Rau, the Hindi-Tamil bilingual stars Siddharth and Andrea Jeremiah along with Atul Kulkarni and Bhavna Aneja. The film will be dubbed in Telugu too. 
 
 
 
 Over the last few years, some of the best stories have emerged from Marathi cinema. With a robust slate for 2017 with Hindi trendsetters, the company has added potential regional game changers to the mix. 
 
 
 Sachin Pilgaonkar joins forces with Swapnil Joshi for the film that narrates the story of a political-business family headed by Shamrao Deshmukh and his son Shlok. Rakesh Sarang will direct the film, produced by the studio with Karishma Jain and Joe Rajan, and co-produced by Swapnil Joshi and Gseams. 
 
 
 
 Ankush Chaudhari, after earning his place in the Marathi industry, will be seen in Aditya Sarpotdar’s next. The film depicts Mahesh’s journey who is trying to find a goal in life. Written by Upendra Sidhaye, it releases on September 29. 
 
 
 
 Set in a Konkani village in post-Independence India, 'Cycle', penned by Aditi Moghe and directed by Prakash Kunte, revolves around Keshav’s intense love affair with his cycle. Hrishikesh Joshi and Bhalchandra Kadam top the cast of this film that was screened at the Cannes Film Festival. 
 
  
  
 
 
