CHANDIGARH: The dastardly act of killing and mutilation of two   by   on May 1 in Jammu and Kashmir’s   has caught the ire of the family members of   who was also beheaded on October 28 last year in the Machhil Sector of the Valley. “Sarkar ki aisi kya majboori hai jo eent ka jawab patthar se nahi de sakti (What forces the government not to pay back in the same coin),” questioned Prerna (28), Sepoy Mandeep’s widow. She demanded “head for a head” for the incident which she termed as “barbaric.”

 While struggling to hide her emotions, Prerna, a constable with the Haryana Police at Shahabad police station, has a volley of questions. “Why are the two nations playing politics over soldiers? Why can’t India stop all diplomatic relations with Pakistan when the enemy country is continuously violating ceasefire? Politicians on both sides of the boundary have nothing to lose but who will take care of martyrs’ families?” she asked.
 
 A native of Antehri village in Kurukshetra, the 27-year-old Mandeep of the 17 Sikh Light Infantry was killed and his body was mutilated by Pakistani militants after infiltrating into Indian territory under Pakistani Rangers’ cover fire in Machhil sector of Kupwara in J&K. His mortal remains reached his village on Diwali last year. On the government’s apathy towards martyrs’ families, Prerna said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had attended her husband’s funeral and announced a Rs 50 lakh compensation and a job to one family member. “The compensation amount was released on February 26 after I gave representation in the Prime Minister’s office in person,” informed Prerna.
 
 Elavborating on the slodiers’ plight, she said, “Soldiers fight for the nation. Leave aside Pakistan, our government is not even able to tackle naxals within the country and soldiers are losing their lives every day like cattle are slaughtered. “How many politicians have their children in defence forces? Ask them,” she questioned. Prerna added, “Naib Subedar Paramjit Singh’s daughter wants her father’s head back which Pakistanis took away. Let’s see what government can do,” she rued.
 
 
