Since the roll out of   (Goods and Services Tax), the government has come up with a slew of measures aimed at troubleshooting the hiccups in the implementation of the new tax regime. The latest step taken in this regard is launch of a helpline to deal with 'unscrupulous elements posing as GST officers'.

 On Saturday, tweets by the official Twitter handle of the Ministry of Finance, alerted about conmen posing as 'GST officers' to harass shopkeepers and customers.
 
  
  
  
  
 In the same series of tweets,   also clarified that government officials are not in power to conduct any such visits to 'premises of traders and shopkeepers' without authorisation.
 
  
  
 
 In a bid to deal with this menace, the Finance Ministry has also floated a helpline number and urged people to complain in case of any such harassment. The government has urged the people to complain at the telephone number 011-23370115.
 
  
  
 
 Earlier this week the government started a series GST "masterclasses" aimed at addressing queries and clarifying any confusion or doubt regarding the new tax regime. These "masterclasses" are in the form of hour-long programs held across six days. They are telecast live on the state run television channel Doordarshan along with live webcasts. The "masterclasses" are primarily conducted by Revenue Secretary   who's joined by other senior government officials who'd be subject experts on the day's topic.
 
 (Read 
  about the first "masterclass")
 (Read 
  about the second "masterclass")
 
 On Friday, the government had launched an app called GST Rate Finder-- which as the name suggests is a ready reckoner for all the tax rates that are to be levied under the GST regime. The app has been developed by the Central Board of Excise and Custom ( ).
 
 (Read 
  about the app)
 
 GST is India's most ambitious tax reform since independence and subsumes over a dozen central and state taxes that were levied on goods and services earlier. Bringing the country under a uniform tax regime, GST is expected to add 2 per cent to India's GDP (gross domestic product).
 
 
 
  
