Ahmedabad: The   high court rejected a petition by   alias ‘Jai Maadi’, accused in a multi-crore ponzi scam, seeking directions to the trial court to conduct one trial by merging the cases on as many as 74 different FIRs.

 Jadeja is accused of criminal conspiracy and duping thousands of people of the Chhara community. The scam is said to be worth around Rs 550 crore. FIRs were filed against him and his associates between 2009 and 2011 in Gujarat and Rajasthan. He is still in judicial custody.
 
 After perusing the case papers, Justice N V Anjaria questioned, “Peculiar enough were the facts. Did they perhaps represent a pulse of criminalized conduct in our society?”
 
 Jadeja was accused of addressing large gatherings of his community at a particular temple. He assured that the goddess would make those present millionaires. Many of them deposited money and received three times in return. When the bubble burst and the goddess did not come to the rescue, people filed FIRs against Jadeja and others.
 
 During the hearing, the court heard that police has filed chargesheets in many cases. In some cases, the court has even completed the trial. This led Justice Anjaria to conclude that the petition filed in 2012 for a single trial had become infructuous.
 
 In this case, the investigating agency CID (crime) could recover only Rs 32 crore from Jadeja and his accomplices against huge amounts allegedly siphoned off.
 
 The victims of Jadeja’s scam also approached the state government and requested a   probe. After his arrest, Jadeja was remanded in most of the cases. In numerous separate remand periods, he spent over a year in police custody in connection with the various FIRs registered.
 
 After Jadeja’s ponzi scam came to the fore, people in the city fell victim to various other ponzi schemes. Imtiyaz Saiyed, a former bank employee, floated a scheme guaranteeing money back at more than 100% interest per annum. He also came to be arrested, but later jumped bail and is absconding.
 
