KOCHI: An accused in drug case, assaulted a lady doctor inside a court room at   first class judicial magistrate court on Monday. The accused, Raju Varghese (60) who was remanded in judicial custody for a ganja case and for assaulting another doctor during his medical examination earlier, attacked the doctor when he was brought to the court for a remand extension.

 The doctor with   was attacked when the issue of the accused being mentally unsound was brought up in the court. “The doctor who was inside the room turned and looked at the accused and this provoked him. He managed to hit the doctor but was brought under control soon. The magistrate ordered him to be shifted to prison,“ said a police officer. The doctor collapsed on the floor and was rushed to a hospital nearby.
 
 “The accused, a chronic drug addict, appeared to be in a state of delirium,“ said a senior officer.
 
 The man was booked by the magistrate for disrupting the court's proceedings and Kothamangalam police booked him again for assault, after recording the doctor's statements. 
 
 Raju was arrested four weeks ago for peddling ganja. Two weeks later, he assaulted a doctor when he was taken for a medical checkup.
 
 Miscreants create roadblock:
 
 Some miscreants have blocked the Azad Road by placing bricks, cylinders and bottles in the early hours of Monday. They have also put cable rolls and signage posts on to the road as well.This was noticed around 2 am by the police party doing night patrolling, who removed them. Police said that though there was no complaint in the case, a probe was being held to identify the accused.
 
 Two held with ganja:
 
 The city police on Monday arrested two Pathanamthitta natives for peddling ganja.They also seized 180gm of ganja from them. The accused, identified as Ajith (21) and Manish (23), were arrested by Central sub-inspector  , after a tip-off by shadow police S I Honey K Das. An FIR un der the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. Police said that the duo were on their way to sell the ganja when they were apprehended.
 
 Six arrested for gambling:
 
 Binanipuram police on Monday arrested six persons for gambling from a building near Panayikkulam. The police also seized Rs 98, 350 from the accused during the raids conducted by the police.
 
 The arrested are identified as   (48), Sabu (51), Babu (63), Baby (63), Kasim (53) and Antony (52). They were booked under the Kerala Gaming Act and were later released on bail. All of the accused are Binanipuram residents. Police said that the gambling racket was operating from a rented building owned by one Pailey.
 
 “The games are being played with such high stakes that the total amount transacted over these card games will run into several lakhs,“ said an official with the rural police.
 
 According to sources with the  , majority of the people addicted to gambling belongs to upper middle class.
 
