BENGALURU: Wednesday's rain in several parts of the city resulted in the collapse of   of  , plunging most areas in Bengaluru East and North into darkness for several hours from 6pm. With at least nine   to the city failing, some areas in West Bengaluru and the CBD too had   from 8pm onwards.

 Hoody station, which supplies power to areas like Fraser Town, Cooke Town, Banaswadi, Kalyan Nagar, HRBR Layout, Hennur and even parts of Hebbal and surrounding areas, could not re solve the issue until late night. KPTCL cited the sudden downpour on Wednesday evening as the reason for the station collapse.
 
 Bescom said the sudden power outage was due to incoming supply failure from various MUSS linked to the 400KV Hoody station. “The lines tripped due to heavy wind followed by rain. We hope to restore power supply before midnight. But the continuous strong winds are a concern,“ an officer said on Wednesday night.
 
 People's misery was compounded as a heavy downpour, accompanied by strong winds, started about 9.30pm. Darkness covered a large swathe of the city and its suburbs ­ from Hoskote and Whitefield to Murugesh Palya, Indiranagar, Ulsoor, Vasanthnagar, Malleswaram, Lingarajapuram, Thanisandra, Nagawara, Sanjaynagar, Hebbal, and Shantinagar, Cubbonpet, Chamarajpet, City Market and Sampangiramnagar.
 
 Citizens flooded Bescom helplines with complaints through the night. “They haven't told us when power will be restored... How can such a light shower disrupt power in so many areas? What will happen when the real monsoon hits the city next month?“ asked concerned residents.
 
 The power outage resulted in complete darkness on the streets, and collapse of traffic signals. Traffic clogs were reported on major link roads in East and North Bengaluru. “It took me two hours to cross a main road due to a huge pileup of traffic,“ said an office-goer in Marathahalli.
 
 The weatherman said Wednesday's rain was normal, and was characterized by strong and gusty winds which are likely to continue for the coming 24-36 hours. Four trees uprooted: At least four trees were uprooted owing to late evening rain, accompanied by strong winds that hit Bengaluru city on Wednesday .
 
 According to BBMP, tree fall was reported from Cox Town, Commercial Street, Sulthan palya and the Orion Mall area.However, there were casualties.
 
 
