We Gujaratis have been rightly outraged by former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav's jibe that Gujarat has failed to produce any martyr. But, here's the reality check: Freedom fighters are being treated with disdain. The   pays a measly Rs 100 per month as medical allowance to freedom fighters. To add insult to the injury, these freedom fighters' paltry medical allowance is not being increased from Rs 100 to Rs 300 per month though there's a provision for it.

 Gujaratis who participated in the Freedom Struggle and worked closely with Mahatma Gandhi have been facing red tapism and `sarkaari' lethargy. Due to lack of coordination and inherent apathy, the issue of increasing their medical allowance is being pushed from   office at   to Treasury department and from there to Health and Family Welfare and Finance departments.
 
 Most freedom fighters in Gujarat are above the age of 90. They are not mobile as they used to be and their medical needs require more and more attention. Most of them need medicines worth Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per month for one or another ailment. This is besides incurring hospitalisation bills worth lakhs, when they fall ill seriously.
 
 In 1990, the Gujarat government decided to make freedom fighters eligible for equal medical allowance as state government pensioners. A resolution was passed to this effect via GR no. MG-1085-2175-(90)-GH.
 
 In 2012, the state government passed a resolution (no. PGR2012345 CH) to increase medical allowance of the state government pensioners from Rs 100 to Rs 300 per month. As per health and family welfare department's resolution in 1990, the freedom fighters qualify for the same medical allowance that is paid to regular pensioners.
 
 
 
 
 Freedom fighter   is 93 and ailing. His fight for his right is an example of how we treat our freedom fighters. Desai, who retired as an officer in the housing department, is a man who believes in principles, integrity and nationalism.
 
 A Gandhian devoted to implementing Father of the Nation's philosophy in day-to-day life, he is a dejected man today. Because at 93, he's running around for justice. “This fight is not for money. It is for the respect and dignity,“ he tells Mirror.
 
 He first filed an application in 2013 with the pension office at Apna Bazaar to increase his medical allowance from Rs 100 to Rs 300 per month. However, the pension office did not act on it or furnish a proper reply. He visited the pension office on five occasions. Not to give up easily, Desai again wrote a letter on May 30, 2016, seeking increase in his medical allowance. The pension office took note of it and forwarded Desai's application to the Joint Director (treasury) seeking directions in the matter.
 
 AA Kadiwala, treasury officer at the Lal Darwaja Pension Office, said his office can increase the medical allowance of Jayanti Desai only after receiving directions from the treasury department.
 
 Talking to Mirror, State Director B M Chavda (Treasury) said: “We received a communication in this regard from the pension office at Lal Darwaja in Ahmedabad. We have forwarded it to the finance department to clarify on the resolution that stipulates equal medical allowance to freedom fighters and state government pensioners.“
 
 Chavda further said, “The finance department has forwarded the application to the General Administration Department which in turn has forwarded it to the health and finance departments. Once the health and finance department clarify on the matter, we will be in a position to address the issue raised by Mr Desai.“
 
 
 
 
 Talking to Mirror, Jayanti Desai said: “Inspired by Gandhiji's call, I joined Freedom Struggle in 1945 while studying at Poddar College in Mumbai. I went to jail for four-and-a-halfmonths at a stretch. During the course of the freedom fight I went to jail on se veral occasions. After the creation of the state of Gujarat in 1960, I came to Ahmedabad and worked in the housing department of the state government.“
 
 “I have been to the treasury department five times till now, escorted by my daughter Pinki Desai.
 
 Iam unable to even stand properly.Yet, the officials don't have the decency to resolve my case or give proper reply. I did not anticipate such a treatment,“ Desai added on an emotional note.
 
 There are 104 persons in Ahmedabad who draw pension as freedom fighters. Out of these, 76 are dependents of the freedom fighters who are no more.
 
