NAGPUR: To clear air on the much-debated topic of ‘triple talaq’ and equality for   in Islam, a Vidarbha level Islamic conference was organized by social welfare organization Munazzamah Falaahiyyah on Sunday, at Chitnis Park, Mahal. The conference was headlined by International Islamic scholar Dr Sayyed Fazlullah Chishti Sahab Qibla. He began by saying that Islam can’t be learnt on the Internet, and highlighted how Uniform Civil Code is different from Common Civil Code. He also stated the provisions in Islam where women too are entitled to give a divorce, and how giving ‘triple talaq’ in one sitting is invalid in Islam.

 Dr Fazlullah quoted Plato’s text which says that males are created directly by Gods from themselves. Those who are cowards change into women in their next births. “Aristotle, in his book ‘Generation of Animals’ says that its best that all tame animals are controlled. And in the same way, women also should be ruled,” he said, adding that despite highly noted philosophers being anti-woman, only Islam is targeted and talked about. Then quoting the Bible, he referred to a line by saint Timothy, which said, when a child is born, the pain borne by women is a punishment given to them. 
 
 Clarifying the teachings of Islam, he said, “Even though women are called the ‘softer gender’, they are in no way inferior to men. Both the genders are equal before God, and in Vedas, god is one. Both the genders have a degree over each other in different things.”
 
 In Islam, women are not inferior. If you want your family to succeed, don’t be harsh to women, he said. He slammed the media for discussing issues by inviting half-baked maulvi on television, those who don’t know how to read original texts.
 
 “Extra marital affairs is a sin. Before that happens, it is better to get a divorce. In Islam, women have all the rights to opt for a second marriage. Whereas in Hinduism, widows are asked to go to Varanasi or become a devadasi. Some sects in Hinduism have no provision for widows. However, here, it is encouraged,” he said.
 
 Divorce is demoted by Islam and it is the most reprehensible act. “Islam was the first to introduce the concept of a divorce, and only for when the husband and wife are frustrated with each other. After giving one talaq, there should be a waiting period of one year, as there is a chance of getting back. Even where a second ‘talaq’ is given, there is a chance of reconciliation. The wife becomes estranged after a third talaq. Giving   in one sitting is invalid,” he said, and quoted the 2011 census, which said that non-muslims practised more bigamy than Muslims.
 
 “In Islam, marriage is a contract. And if the husband accepts the clause that the woman will be allowed to opt for a divorce before marriage, than the woman is entitled to the same,” he added and appealed to the Muslims to be aware of the texts.
 
 
