KOLKATA: Who has been the most affected by the Trump administration's ban on electronic gadgets larger than cellphones in cabins of US-bound flights from certain countries?

 The mid-level executive rushing to finish a presentation that can make or break hisher career? The tardy student doing last-minute revisions to a term paper? The answer, according to parents and flight attendants, is children.
 It was initially felt that business executives would be the worst off, unable to get work done during long-haul flights. But in-flight experience revealed that while corporate travellers have grudgingly accepted the new reality or changed their flight schedules to avoid flights from the countries on the ban ned list, children were the most annoyed at their iPads having been taken away .
 
 Several passengers from Kolkata who flew to the US via the Gulf countries this past week saw parents struggle to manage their kids and keep them engaged during the 14 hourplus trans-Atlantic journey .Flight attendants, too, were at their wits' end on how to keep the little travellers amused.
 
 “These days, children as young as one-and-a-half years old use iPads and other devices. Take the device away , and they become irritable,“ said Nandini Bhattacharya, who flew to Virginia via Dubai last weekend.
 
 On her flight, she saw children being difficult. “One felt sorry for the parents, but also sad for the kids,“ she said. A runima Dasgupta, who lives in Chicago, recoun ted how a four-year-old boy turned temperamental immediately after the iPad was taken away from him during the stopover at a Gulf airport. His mother had a tough time keeping him quiet.
 
  resident Paulami Barua Roy , a mother of two sons aged three and four, cannot even imagine how nightmarish it can get on a flight that doesn't allow her kids access to their electronic devices. The two to five age group is the most difficult to handle on flights, she feels. “If the airline is taking away gadgets, they have to provide age-appropriate games and movies,“ she said.
 
 In the past week, airlines have spruced up their offering for young travellers with goodie bags that contain puzzles, colouring books and crayons.“We go to great lengths to entertain and occupy children. We know keeping the young ones happy is a key part of ensuring a smooth and enjoyable travel experience for the whole family,“ said Emirates vice-president, India and Nepal, Essa Ahemed. Airlines have also begun offering tablets on loan on board US-bound flights in first and business classes to allow passengers to work and may even consider extending it to families with children so they can play their favourite games.
 
 Mahuya Paul, who travels to India annually , doesn't know what her eight-year-old daughter will do during the journey .“Making a child sit through a 14-hour flight is a punishment.Taking away their gadgets is punishing her twice,“ she said.
 
 Unable to carry the Kindle for her 10-year-old daughter, Angshumala Tamaghna has to pack loads of books, which is inconvenient.  , also a mother, said electronic devices were a boon on longhaul flights and offered peace of mind to parents. “ Scientist Biplob Bhattachaya is enraged at children being caught in what many consider a high-stakes battle between American and Gulf carriers.“The underlying reason for the ban is not security, but discouraging travel on Gulf carriers that have been taking away traffic from US airlines. It's having the desired effect. One of my friends travelling to India was planning to fly on a carrier from the Gulf. But he opted to buy a higher-priced ticket on a US-based airlines after the ban to minimise inconvenience for his children.“
 
