BHOPAL: Hit by   and cash crunch, a robber who had been operating on trains in Vadodra, Surat and Ahmedabad sectors in Gujarat changed his area of operation to   only to be caught.

 Ajay Singh, 51, who was   by the general railway police ( ) admitted to have shifted targeting passengers in Bhopal just because there was severe cash crunch in Gujarat.
 
 Additional DG rail, G P Singh said accused admitted that he was not able to get any major catch in Gujarat post-November 8 and was forced to shift location.
 
 “It was a critical case to crack, as Ajay Singh, who was into theft since 1989 and he never ever had an identity proof. Moreover, he was an ardent newspaper reader and knew every prize amount on him. He knew everything about railways checking process and working, as his father was a railway employee,” ADG said
 
 “When we inquired more about him, he said he thought of shifting here as his theft business was hit by demonetization there and he was getting no money,” added Singh.
 
 The matter came into light, when on December 30, 2016, he boarded Thirukkal express’s women’s coach and hide himself in a washroom. As soon as the train left, he came out and terrorized the women passengers with a knife and looted them. He beat up the women who tried to resist him and fled as soon as one of the passengers called the police. He looted cash worth Rs 4,000 and gold jewellery.
 
 At Bina station the injured women passengers were given the first aid and a report was lodged.
 
 A team was formed to track the thief, who jumped from moving train near Vidisha. The team headed by additional superintendent of police (Rail) and deputy SP (rail) nabbed him Singh with the help of CCTV footage, vendors’ statement as he boarded a women’s coach of a train within a week to carry out another strike.
 
 On being caught Ajay Singh said his father was a railway employee and hence he chose to target train passengers to earn a livelihood.
 
 He has 7 cases registered on him in Ujjain, Dewas, Vadodra, Ahemdabad and had cash prize worth Rs 60,000 approx on his name.
 
