NEW DELHI: In a major step towards ensuring women’s   in the capital, Delhi Police has identified 165 spots across the capital, which will be brought under a “total surveillance system” comprising CCTV cameras, spotters and emergency response vehicles (ERVs). The move comes in the wake of instructions from the lieutenant governor.

 Earlier, an intelligence report had pointed out that not a single CCTV was functional at Old Delhi railway station. In all, 700 cameras were found to be out of order ahead of the Republic Day celebrations. The police chief has now instructed DCPs to fix the non-functioning CCTV cameras in their areas. A high-level meeting was called recently during which it was decided that an assessment will be carried out on the basis of crime data of each vulnerable spot.
 
 A team led by the then special commissioner (operations) Sanjay Baniwal has been formed to sift through the data regarding PCR calls and identify the stretches from which at least 10 calls per day were received. “We are working towards bringing a system, which would ensure a total surveillance on these stretches. There would be CCTV cameras and other equipment in place. This would be a deterrence for petty criminals,” said Baniwal.
 
 Delhi Police will procure 10,000 CCTV cameras at a cost of more than Rs 1,200 crore, which will be installed on these stretches. The cameras would be connected to a monitoring unit, which will again be linked to the district and central-level C4Is.
 
 The cameras will have high-resolution lenses to capture faces even after dark. Cops admit that in most cases, identifying the criminals becomes difficult due to the poor quality of the footage.
 
 A report submitted to the police commissioner last month has revealed that about 4,000 cameras have been procured by the force in the past eight years. Of these, 85 cameras have been installed in sensitive spots. According to the report, many of the cameras installed in the markets and roads were found to be non-functional.
 
 According to a Delhi Police study, on average 75% of the crime solved in 2015-16 had CCTV footage, which was later used as evidence. “It is a necessary tool, which not only acts as a deterrent but also helps in crime detection. Our aim is to harness this capability,” Baniwal said. Most recently, cops were able to track down a serial sexual offender on the basis of CCTV footage they had collected from a shop in east Delhi. Cops feel that   are a solution to curbing petty crimes.
 
 In the burglary case at Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s house in Kalkaji, the CCTV footage at the apartment offered a vital clue about the routes taken by the miscreants.
 
 
