KOLKATA: Preserving the past is fine, but the future is important too. A crumbling structure in  , which has been carefully restored to its original self, is one such example. 

 The building is probably the city’s first restoration initiative with a viable  . Come Friday, it’ll be home to a   called “Zs’ Precinct”, comprising curated contemporary offerings and galleries displaying fine art. The décor is made of the original red-oxide flooring, cupboards, furniture, doors, windows, light fittings, fans, air-vents and even an old wooden letter box. A series of engaging events on art and culture have been lined up to infuse life into 18/76A Dover Lane.
 
 The building is the trophy project on C.A.L-Legacies.com, the website created as part of a campaign by author Amit Chaudhury, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, Harvard professor-MP Sugato Bose and others to save “Kolkata’s distinctive architectural legacy”.
 
 Constructed in the 1930s in Art Deco style, sporting features of middle-class urban Bengali architecture, the house stands in a lane that ends in a leafy quadrangular enclave of residences built in the early 20th century. Some of these structures are in disarray and a few have been demolished to make way for nondescript apartment-homes. A similar fate was looming over 18/76A, owned by Sutapa Roy and Sumana Mukherjee, who’ve settled outside Kolkata. Passed on to them by their grandparents, the sisters found themselves holding on to the vacant ancestral home with its expensive upkeep.
 
 Luckily, family friend Rajesh Sen, who moved back to Kolkata in 2010 after 23 years, was looking “to create something that’d find a pride of place on the city’s heritage map”. The 54-year-old’s creative pursuits excited the sisters. 
 
 Accordingly, Sen and architect Bijoy Roy started transformation of the building in 2015. “My brief was simple — to restore the house, making it timeless, taking care not to erase its age or character,” said Sen. 
 
 His quest led him to C.A.L, and he became part of the movement to conserve the city’s architectural landscape. “The mantra is to restore and reuse. The house not only looks beautiful and original, it can also generate funds for maintenance,” Sen added. Author Amit Chaudhury echoed: “Our campaign aims at renewal and reuse. 18/76A is the best fallout of our movement so far; it brings hopes for many such privately-owned heritage structures.”
 
 The art space has two parts — Zarah’s Gallery and Zoyah’s Treasury — christened after Sen’s daughters. “Each and every item in the museum has an artistic appeal that is enduring. There are no geographical boundaries for sourcing the limited-edition stuff. The focus is on the eclectic,” said the curator-creator of Zs’ Precinct. “Our collections will stimulate the grey cells,” he said, referring to Showspace, a permanent gallery meant for miniature art and prints from places like RBU’s graphics department. Sen is working on an affordable format for the “objet d’art” to reach a wider audience, especially the appreciative Kolkata youth. 
 
 There is another surprise: a kitchen called “Moby’s Larder” that will dish out homemade food, as well as tea and coffee.
 
 “In a city used to enterprises overshadowing the ethos of the original premises, this ‘home’ is sure stand out,” said Roy. “Here the house takes centre stage,” the architect added.
 
 
