 India's "Great Indian Festival" offers is back to add more colour to the upcoming festival season in the country. The festival will start from September 21 and will go on until September 24. 

 For Amazon Prime users, the sale will start early at 12PM on September 20. During the Great Indian Festival sale, you can get amazing discounts and cash back offers on mobiles, laptops, fashion, shoes, TVs, washing machines, home and kitchen products and much more.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Amazon id offering up to 40 per cent discounts on various mobile phone brands such as Xiaomi Redmi, Lenovo, OnePlus, Apple, Samsung, Motorola, Honor, LG, Coolpad, Micromax, Nokia etc. Apart from mobile phone, there is offers available on gadgets like laptops, cameras, speakers, headphones, smart watches, activity trackers, Amazon Fire TV Stick, power banks etc. There is up to 50 per cent off on speakers, headphones, Amazon Kindle, grooming appliances, activity trackers and much more. 
 
 
 
 
 Electronic appliances such as washing machines, televisions, air conditioners, refrigerators etc. are available on up to 60 per cent discount on Amazon. You will avail up to Rs 15,000 discount on laptops, 40 per cent on television, minimum 20 per cent on refrigerators, up to Rs 10,000 off on ACs, minimum 25 per cent discount on washing machines, up to 60 per cent discount on networking devices and much more.
 
 
 
 
 You can revamp your entire wardrobe during Amazon Great Indian Festival with up to 70 per cent discount on popular brands such as Fab India, Adidas, Puma, Titan, United Colors of Benetton, Lavie, American Tourister and many more at Amazon.in. There will be discounts on clothing, shoes, watches, handbags, kid's fashion, jewellery etc. 
 
 
 
 
 Select from popular Home and Kitchen brands like Bombay Dyeing, Solimo, Prestige, Phillips, Usha, Orpat and many more at Amazon to get up to 70 per cent discount on the category. Home furnishings, home décor, lighting, cleaning supplies, garden and outdoor tools, kitchen and dining appliances are also available on great discounts during the Great Indian Festival. 
 
 
 
 
 Amazon is also offering impressive exchange offers with instant discounts on mobiles, TVs, Laptops, Tablets, Air Conditioners etc. There is also additional 10 per cent discount on HDFC Bank Debit and Credit cards and No EMI offer on almost all major banks.
 
