BHUBANESWAR: People must be partners in any welfare initiative meant for them. This was the consensus at the event 'Collective Social Responsibility is the New CSR for Holistic and Sustainable Development', one in a series of a nation-wide programme jointly organised by the  , a division of The   and ActionAid, a voluntary organization. 

 Attending the programme as chief guest, Bhubaneswar   member Prasanna Patasani said most social welfare activities were inconsistent with people's holistic development. "One day you hear about Swachh Bharat, next day there is something else..Moreover, one must understand whether people are actually using the toilets built for them. We must understand that more is needed so that people do in fact use these toilets," he said.
 
 KIIT and KISS founder Achyuta Samanta said any goal is attainable if one rises above one's personal agenda. Stating that quality education is a basic need which can take care of everything else, Samanta gave the example of KISS that has been bringing changes in tribals' lives through education, and bringing them on a par with the rest of the society.
 
 A N Verma, general manager, (HR),  , said people must be partners in progress and they must be at the centrestage of any planning meant for them. Anil Bhatt, consulting editor, Yes We Can, a voluntary organization, echoed him when he said CSR is a moral responsibility. Among others, Nabard Bhubneswar deputy general manager R K Behera, Regional Institute of Education principal K B Rath, and IPICOL official Kalyan Mohanty also spoke.
 
 Earlier, introducing the topic, ActionAid India director Dipali Sharma said the series of events are planned to evolve a productive model for CSR activities. Sumit Ashis of Times Foundation said these programmes are meant to come up with new ideas, build innovative CSR strategies and practices. "The collective brainstorming may help build dependable partnership for social and environmental priorities integrated into economic growth," he said.
 
