BENGALURU: The positive response to its proposal of opening   ­eateries envisaged to offer food at subsidized prices to the poor ­ in Bengaluru has spurred the state government to expedite the process of launching these affordable canteens in rural areas as well.

 Eateries in rural areas will be named   Canteens to distinguish them from their counterparts in Bengaluru. The government has decided to operate these canteens in 21 district hospitals across the state, besides 146 taluk hospitals, since these healthcare centres are frequented by the underprivileged.
 
 Commissioner of health and family welfare department   said that the canteens would be set up in 500sqft spaces. “We're in the process of starting work on these canteens and expect to complete it by the end of May. We plan to open them by the first week of June,“ he added. Official sources said that, on average 25,000 people across the state would benefit from these canteens daily. “The government is hoping to woo the rural poor with this move ahead of the 2018 polls,“ sources said.
 
 Unlike the canteens in Bengaluru, the eateries in rural areas would not entail any burden on the state exchequer, Yadav said. “Besides providing free electricity, space and water, the government will not invest anything. Since these outlets will be located at government hospitals, initial capital and regular expenditure won't be high,“ said Yadav.
 
 Under the proposed scheme, customers can have idly and sambhar for breakfast, while rice, sambhar, rasam and vegetable curry would be served for lunch and dinner. Contractors entrusted with operating these canteens can include more delicacies if they choose to.
 
 “We have not fixed the price, but   will select only those contractors who quote modest prices. If idly-sambhar costs Rs 3 in Raichur, it could be priced at Rs 5 in Hubballi. Although prices may vary in different places, it would still be cheaper compared to the market price,“ Yadav said.
 
 Guidelines issued by the department empower the Arogya Raksha Samiti in each district and taluk to invite tenders, and subsequently choose contractors for these canteens. The guidelines state that these samitis should give preference to voluntary organizations such as three Shakthi groups and other small NGOs, apart from widows and physically challenged individuals. Yadav pointed out that, besides extending meals at modest prices, the idea was also to provide employment.The government is also planning on providing rice, wheat and pulses through the state civil supplies corporation to contractors to reduce overheads for contractors.
 
 “We've received a proposal from the health department seeking subsidized food grain to run these canteens.But we are yet to take a decision,“ said  , secretary of the food and civil supplies department.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Although the public needs to be chary of populist measures, some initiatives can actually make a difference to people's wellbeing. The Karnataka government's move to open Indira Canteens across the state is one such initiative.
 
 However, the success of the government's initiative is contingent on implementation, and it's here that the government could emulate Amma Canteens in neighbouring  . The government's decision to extend the scheme to rural parts of the state is welcome, since it can also help solve the problem of unemployment in villages.
 
