  : Unhappy with the government's decision to send 733 government   to do a two-year   as dies-non and with  , various PU lecturers' associations on Sunday decided to meet   requesting him to revoke the decision. 

 ACICM convener M Lak shman, who is fighting for the rights of lecturers, held a meeting on Sunday with lectur ers and decided to meet primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait and chief minister Siddaramaiah and brief them about the problems likely to be faced by lecturers if they are sent with stipend amount for two years to complete the teaching course. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Lakshman said that as there was a shortage of candidates who had completed BEd for the lecturers' posts, so the government invited applications from non-BEd candidates to apply.
 
 "When the 2009 batch lecturers were sent for the BEd course, chief minister Siddaramaiah and the then education minister Kimmane Ratnakara had issued an order stating that the 2013 batch lecturers should also be sent to do BEd course with salary and attendance similar to 2009 batch. But the present principal secretary Ajay Seth has kept minister Tanveer Sait in the dark and brought new orders without consulting him," Lakshman alleged.
 
 Lakshman said that dies-non applies for only civil servants who are absent without approval and cannot be applied for lecturers. "Ordering to provide stipend for two years for lecturers is nothing but criminal thinking from principal secretary Ajay Seth," he said.
 
 With just a few days left to join the BEd course, the lecturers have taken a decision to meet all the MLAs and MLCs from Mysuru region requesting for their support to fight against the injustice.
 
 "We will meet Siddaramaiah and brief him about the situation. Even after that, if the government decides to send lecturers on dies-non and stipend, then all the associations and lecturers will hold massive protest in front of education minister's residence till we get justice," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Akhila Karnata ka Pre-University Lecturers Welfare Association president E Shivegowda said that on Sunday evening they are meeting MLA Vasu and former MP AH Vishwanath. 
 
 Earlier in the day, a few lecturers also met deputy chairman of the legislative council Marithibbegowda at his residence in Kuvempunagar and explained their plight. 
 
 Marithibbegowda called Tanveer Sait and principal secretary Ajay Seth over phone and requested them to do needful for the cause of lecturers.
 
 
