AHMEDABAD: The controversial proposals of the   which greatly reduce the eco-sensitive buffer zones around its sanctuaries -including Nalsarovar, Porbandar Bird Sanctuary, Gaga Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary among others-are ready.

 For five sanctuaries, muchsmaller eco-friendly zones have already been approved, at a meeting held on October 20.
 
 The Gujarat forest department went out of its way to get these reductions done. The old ESZ buffer zones extended from between 2km and 16km from sanctuary limits. The new zones range from 500m to 2km from the sanctuary boundaries.
 
 Officials in the forest department said: “Once the draft is given final approval, the state has no powers to revise it. Revision for already-cleared sanctuaries is now possible only through legislation in the Gujarat assembly . The government, taking advantage of the fact that the final notification has not been published yet, is revising these and trying to incorporate the changes into the notification.“
 
 The government was revi sing ESZs to please builders and now even local land owners are revising proposals.
 
 The meetings of the 23rd expert committee for eco-sensitive zones around wildlife sanctuariesnational parks, held on October 19 and 20, had cleared five of seven proposals to revise ESZs. The two that were deferred were for the Barda and Velavadar sanctuaries.
 
 The five others, include the only Ramsar site in the state, Nalsarovar, were cleared and recommended for final notification.
 
 The minutes of the meetings record: “The government of Gujarat requested the defer ment of proposals declaring revised ESZs around   and   due to huge number of objections received from local stakeholders.“
 
 “The political bosses who want us to revise these are putting forth excuses about them having received lots of representations against the draft notification, but if one reads the minutes it clearly states that no objections which were received,“ said a senior officer involved in the process.
 
 For example, the minutes for Nalsarovar clearly states, “No comments on the draft notification have been received by the ministry . The representative of the state government apprised the committee of the proposal. The presentation included the details of flora and fauna and GPS coordinates of the protected area and ESZ and list of villages. Chairperson Dr  , stated that the state government should promote green skills in the area.The committee recommended the proposal for publication of the final notification.“
 
