MUMBAI: Days before trial in the   is to commence, the victim’s fiance and son of   Mukerjea, an accused, took to   on Saturday to vehemently advocate his father’s innocence. Sharing copies of letters addressed to the offices of the   and the  ,   Mukerjea (34) shifted the blame on accused   Mukerjea, the victim’s mother and Peter’s estranged wife, and said that it was in the “interest of justice and fairness” to share the information. 

 Sheena (24) was murdered on April 24, 2012, allegedly by Indrani, her former husband Sanjeev Khanna and driver Shyamvar Rai in a conspiracy with media mogul Peter. Sheena’s body was allegedly disposed of on April 25, 2012, in a deserted spot off Pen-Khopoli Road, Raigad. The CBI alleged that both Indrani and Peter were against Rahul and Sheena’s impending marriage and had misled him into believing that she was alive and well. The investigating agency further stated that both had alleged that   had left Rahul on her own free will and moved to the US.
 
 However, refuting his father’s role in the conspiracy, Rahul claimed that Peter was clearly not involved nor was he aware of any crime allegedly perpetrated by Indrani. “In early 2012, when Sheena had contacted Indrani with a view to clearing the air, Indrani had told Peter that Sheena had, in fact, contacted her with a view to leaving the relationship and wanted Indrani’s help to do that (Peter was lied to). Therefore, any of Peter’s subsequent reassurances given to me that Sheena was fine, or must be fine, were as a result of him believing what he had been told, which Indrani also corroborated to make believable by sending a couple of SMS messages to herself and to Peter, from Sheena’s phone, claiming the same,” the microblogging post read.
 
 He also wrote that even after being confronted, Indrani refused to acknowledge before Peter that Sheena and her brother Mekahil were her children and not her siblings as she had portrayed to him and others over the years. “Peter was never allowed, by Indrani, to visit Guwahati to meet her parents, obviously, as that would have led to him becoming aware of the truth about Indrani’s past and her kids,” Rahul wrote.
 
 Seeking that the charges against Peter to be dropped, Rahul ends the two-page letter saying, “I greatly appreciate any steps that can be taken from your respective offices, to ensure justice is fairly and correctly applied in the matter.”
 
 
