MELBOURNE:   and Barbora Strycova - the fourth-seeds in the women's doubles draw of the Australian Open - put out Aussie   and China's Shuai Zhang 6-1, 6-4 on a cold, windy afternoon. The Indo-Czech pairing, who'll play the Japanese combine of Eri Hozumi and Miyu Kato in the third round on Sunday, came through in 1 hour and 22 minutes.

 Sania, who won the title here last year with Swiss  , and Strycova, trailed 0-3 in the second set after the Czech was broken in the second game of the set. They came back in telling fashion, breaking Zhang in the fifth game before the Czech served out the match in the tenth.
 
 “At this stage, there's no easy match,” Sania said of the third round clash. “It was good to be able pull off the first two matches in tricky conditions, particularly today against a very good team. The more you play, the better you feel, especially in these conditions.”
 
 
 
 
 India's   and   of Uruguay, the fifteenth seeds in the men's doubles, were done in by a poor call in their second round clash. Chair umpire Dane Christian Rask's decision late in the third set virtually shut out their challenge.
 
 The Indo-Uruguayan pairing was locked at three-games all against Alex Bolt and Bradley Mousley in the deciding third set. With Cuevas serving, the fancied duo saved a breakpoint opportunity at 30-40, but on the next chance, Bolt intercepted a Cuevas groundstroke and sent the volley wide, which the Indian did well to leave alone. The chair umpire ruled the point in favour of the Aussies, saying the Indian's racket had touched the ball.
 
 Bopanna tried to explain, saying had he touched the ball it would've changed the trajectory. Rask had made the call, handing the game to the wildcard entrants, who went from ruing a mistake to celebrating the break rather quickly.
 
 Wildcard entrant Bolt and Mousley won 6-2, 6-7(2), 4-6 in 1 hour 56 minutes. Bopanna and Cuevas won a greater share of the points 95-90, but lost the match.
 
 The duo, who came together this year, playing only their second tournament as a pair, sat stunned in their seats after the match. “Terrible decision,” Bopanna said.
 
