Thane: Nearly a hundred irate commuters travelling to Roha by a Central   shuttle service staged a   at   station late on Wednesday evening after the train got delayed by over an hour.

 The sudden protest was reported around 8:45pm after passengers waiting for the 71095 Roha DEMU passenger that operates on the Diva-Panvel route were waiting for several minutes. The train was running late but no information on the service was reportedly announced for the thousands of passnegers using the service.
 
 Frustrated about the inadequate information on the same, few passengers went to seek explanation from the railway staff but were met with alleged rude and unsatisfactory replies. The staff reportedly told the passengers that the train was running late but assigned no specific reason for the same following which few commuters spilled over to the tracks blocking path of local trains from platforms 1 and 2.
 
 Few services in both directions were dealyed due to the protest till the police arrived and cleared the agitators from the tracks.
 
 The train leaves Diva station at 8pm but is reported to run late daily thus inconveniencing thousands of passengers travelling to Panvel, Pen and Roha using its services. Passengers claimed they travel for three long hours to reach theit respective destination down the Konkan line, the delay leads to massive inconvenience for them. Further, the train often runs late and is always pushed on the loop line to give passage for freight and express trains on the route, complained regular passengers on the route.
 
 "The passengers were upset after the train was running late. They spilled over to the tracks and held up services on the slow tracks in both directions for nearly 30 minutes before the police arrived on the scene and cleared the tracks off the protesters," said Adesh Bhagat, a railway activist from Diva.
 
 "The down direction train arrived late at Diva following which the train got delayed for its return journey. The train arribed at 8:15pm and departed from Diva station at 9.15pm, nearly 75 minutes beyond its scheduled departure," informed a senior officer at the Central Railway.
 
 Meanwhile the railway police made few arrests in the incident. "Few commuters have been detained for causing nuisance on railway property and disturbing up railway traffic," said a senior railway protection force officer.
 
 Interestingly, a minor rail fracture between Diva and Kopar was reported Wednesday morning that delayed suburban trains for several hours. A breach was noticed on the down fast track around 9am and few services diverted on slow tracks. The section was cleared in few minutes but services were running with speed restrictions that led to cascading effect on the timetable.
 
 
