LAS VEGAS: The clock hadn’t struck 12 yet. The audience at the spectacular O show at Bellagio had just witnessed a breath-taking performance involving world-class acrobats, synchronised swimmers and divers. That’s when news broke out of the Las   shooting. A gunman firing from a Las Vegas hotel had rained a rapid-fire barrage on a huge concert festival on Sunday night. Thousands of people were fleeing the venue until SWAT units found him dead in his hotel room. Amid this chaos were we — tourists from Kolkata — numb, restless and swamped by the sudden turn of events.

 It seemed like waking up to a nightmare just after a pleasant dream. Sunday evening had started on an exciting note as we embarked on a Las Vegas by Night tour with a trip to the Volcano show, followed by dinner at Panda Express.
 
 Who would have known that a little later, the area around the restaurant, so close to the  , would see a bloodbath. The Bellagio, which is about 2.4km from Mandalay Bay, was our last destination. The show, which had begun at 9.30pm, ended at 11.10pm.
 
 There was a heady hangover of O’s tribute to the beauty of theatre. But within minutes, Bellagio changed drastically. There was panic all around with people running helter-skelter in the lobby. Initially, we thought some big movie star had suddenly dropped in leading to this mass hysteria. But the scared faces told a different story.
 
 Some of the 30-odd tourists standing ahead of us suddenly started gesticulating hysterically. Someone screamed about hearing gunshots. We could hear sirens of police vehicles and ambulances. Suddenly, resort hotels like Venetian and Bellagio shut their main entrances. We learnt there was shooting near Mandalay Bay but none could say if it was a terror attack. All of us rushed inside Bellagio and took shelter in the lobby. The internet was slow with limited access to websites.
 
 The Uber app wasn’t functioning. Unlike India, people in Vegas are a different lot. Trying to get any information met with blank stares. Not just the authorities, even the man on the street was quick to warn against spreading rumours. In desperation, I started messaging people back home on WhatsApp. For the next hour, I received information about what was happening on the Las Vegas Strip from friends back home. To my horror, the number of casualties outside kept climbing. One message said the toll had touched 50.
 
 After what felt like an interminable wait but was in reality a little over an hour we finally got a cab and left Bellagio with great trepidation. Even while leaving the hotel, I asked the janitor to share what had happened, but he wasn’t ready to share unconfirmed news. The cabbie, too, was equally protective. Constant radio feeds told us which roads to avoid and which to take.
 
 Vegas, it is said, never sleeps. On Sunday night too, it didn’t. Shops were still open while we were returning to our hotel. The cafes hadn’t downed their shutters either. But unlike other nights, there were no tourists or revellers thronging these places.
 
 Countless ambulances sped down flashing red and blue beacons as we negotiated the traffic to take a different route to our hotel. It was 1.15am when we finally reached our hotel. Exhausted and drained, we retired hoping the mayhem would end by morning.
 
 
