BHOPAL: For students and   of   (SPA), the road to institute is paved with problems. In past two years, a stretch of 900m road out of the 3 km  , is constructed. 

 The road, once completed, will connect Bhopal bypass with the main gate of the Union HRD ministry-run premier institute. 
 
 Senior professors at SPA are unhappy over slow pace of road work. "I never saw such slow pace of road construction. "I came to SPA three years ago. I am observing road construction for past two years. I think it will take another 30 years to complete road at this pace," said Professor Nikhil Ranjan Mandal. PWD is constructing the road
 
 Planning department head Mandal said, "Instead of thinking about classes, students first think about how to reach the college. As road work is not completed, students are forced to come from a nearby village, a cumbersome task. Villagers object and even stop students and others from using the dirt road to reach the institute from Bhopal. Villagers are right on their part as heavy vehicles, which pass from the village, damage kachcha road," Mandal said. Wordy duels with villagers are common every day. Students said the slow road construction affected quality improvement programmes and seminars in the college as many scholars in the past refused to visit the campus citing bad road connectivity. Teachers worry that the admission process would begin in next two months and it might have a bearing on admissions.
 
 Of the three SPAs in the country, one of the campuses is in Bhopal. SPA, an institute of national importance, has the strength of around 800 students. A student without quoting his name said, "Neither cabs nor ambulances are able to reach the SPA campus when urgently needed in the absence of proper road. I am fed up and regret the day when I decided to take admission. SPA is good, but such issues are quite frustrating for us."
 
 Students said state PWD was requested on many occasions, but to no avail. "A letter was written to PWD minister Ram Pal Singh addressing the issue, but there was no reply," said another student. The college comes under ward 3 of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC).
 
 When contacted, office of PWD minister Rampal Singh told TOI, the minister was not available to talk owing to health issues. PWD officers also refused to come on record despite repeated efforts.
 
