NAVI MUMBAI: Residents of  ,   and   have complained of acute pollution from chemical industries along the MIDC corridor of Trans Thane Creek (TTC) area in Turbhe, Shirawane and Nerul areas. 

 Foul smell coming out of the nullahs has become unbearable for the residents near Juinagar station and Sanpada. 
 
 Residents allege they are facing breathing problems at night and early morning, when the chemical wastes are allegedly released from the nearby industries into the water.
 
 The   adjacent to sector 11, Sanpada has not been cleaned for years, alleged residents. This nullah is used for dumping chemical waste and toxins, garbage which are being discharged illegally without treatment by the industries, they added.
 
 The residents suspect that the MIDC industrial units are behind this. “Apart from the foul smell, the daily foggy air causes stinging eyes, itchy throat, breathing discomfort and headache,” said Shirwane resident Rajesh Poojari.
 
 The nullahs flow from TTC industrial area, carrying chemical effluents. “The onus is on the   to check the industrial pollution. We need to see that if any pipeline has been damaged by the civic body while carrying out repair work in the MIDC area. The damage could have led to the release of  , as claimed by residents,” said P B Chavan, MIDC executive engineer. 
 
 Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) is clueless about the issue .“We appeal to the residents to send us their complaints so that we can start an inquiry. As per my knowledge there has been no lapse on our side in controlling pollution,” said Anil Mohekar, regional officer, MPCB.
 
  Ranjan Goyal, a Sanpada resident said, “We inhale poisonous gases like sulfur dioxide (SO2) and hydrogen dioxide (H2S) at night till about 8 am.” 
 
 The residents have complained of skin rashes and breathing problems. “We find it difficult to breathe,”said Juinagar resident Amey Singh. 
 
 NMMC maintained that industries are responsible for releasing treated effluents into the nullahs and MPCB should weed out the loopholes. 
 
 
