Recently, and finally, the Maharashtra Legislature has passed the much-awaited Public University’s Act. It was preceded by sufficient public deliberations by the education minister Vinod Tawde. MLAs and MLCs also contributed their might. That is how the consensus was established in clearing the Bill unanimously. The Government deserves kudos on this account. The Bill claims to put student’s interests and accountability of faculty members first besides proclaiming more autonomy (which autonomy is not clear) to the university.

 I have actively participated for more than 20 years in Nagpur University by way of getting elected on almost all the statutory bodies, right up to the management council, not once but number of times. I am therefore aware of the basic problems facing the university system. The university system has already degraded to its possible low. The surveys about the quality of graduates produced by almost all universities in India indicate very grim picture. Will it give solutions to such issues?
 
 It is erroneous to assume that social transformation would occur using the existing institutions. Had it been so the transformations would have been achieved long back. But social transformations require new institutions, befitting the time. Alternatively the existing institutions will have to be altered with paradigm changes to suit the timely requirements. In this respect there seems to be some paradigm changes in the new act.
 
 The new act no doubt has taken some of the requirements into consideration to meet the challenges of times. The suggested changes in examination pattern, the grading system, the flexibility in choosing the subjects of study across different disciplines, students elections, their participation in decision making in various academic bodies right up to the management council, more autonomy per se of the university, inducting educationists in the senate and academic council, faculty’s accountability, skill teaching and so on are no doubt in the right direction of improvement. They amount to some required paradigm changes.
 
 It must be understood that changes befitting the then requirements were made in the act at least twice in the past (1974 and 1994) but the situation moved from bad to worse as is the experience and of which I was the active witness. It was certainly not on account of absence of the above mentioned factors. The reasons were different. There was lot of subjectivity in managing the university then. Hope the same mistake is not repeated in implementing the new act.
 
 Let us first understand that the quality of graduates coming out of not only Maharashtra universities but all over India has gone down and is far from the quality needed for the modern-day world. This problem is not going to be solved by the provisions in the new act so readily unless the contents and quality of teaching is improved drastically. It is going to take time, energy and money to achieve it. The right structure is provided but life will have to be inducted into it by the faculty at all levels.
 
 It is populist to have student-centric act but such things have not worked in the past in raising the academic standards so readily. It requires maturity on the part of students and it is not going to be achieved by the provisions of the act alone. It is bound to lead to more agitations and disruptions in the university as are common in the polity in general. The requirement basically is that the university’s functioning must be more faculty-centric, rather than student-centric, and that faculty improvement should be the priority. That alone is sure guarantee of producing right quality of human resource suited to the modern world.
 
 Let us understand that each one of the existing university in Maharashtra is too big and does not have adequate staff of right quality and adequate financial resources to meet the requirements, as envisaged in the act. For example all India experts will be inducted in the academic council and senate. Will the university pay for their air travel and that too so often? They may in the beginning but might finally withdraw it on account of overall financial crunch in the state. What will happen to the quality then?
 
 The accountability of faculty is proposed to be improved. It is going to take lot of time, energy and money to do the job properly. Who and how it will be done and monitored? When the state government is unable to find financial resources for their developmental programmes, as a matter of priority for electoral gains, the guillotine has always fallen on the university expenses. Who can guarantee that adequate financial help will come from the state in such a situation? How will then the new act operate efficiently? Hence it is alright to pass nice act, perhaps ideal, but where is the government’s will to finance and run the universities as per the requirements of the new act on priority? Nobody talks about it.
 
 Finally a great majority of students would like to get degrees without putting right efforts to start with. They would also agitate to get all sorts of concessions to obtain degrees disregarding the interests of genuine students. The universities have not been able to stand such pressures in the past and as a result most compromised with the quality in the past. Where is the main safeguard in the act to ensure quality and yet peace in the university?
 
 (The writer is a former professor and head of metallurgy engineering and founder chairman of VNIT, Nagpur)
 
 
