A rise in incidents of miscreants troubling women on   pushes GRP to deploy special female squads during peak hours

 Even as much-needed dialogue has recently been sparked about sexual harassment in workplaces, railway authorities have observed a spike in such cases on local trains travelling to and from the city.
 
 Over the last few months, several complaints have filtered in on the Government Railway Police (GRP) helpline from running local trains, with women citing harassment and molestation — cops believe this rise is also spurred on by the increased student traffic on locals due to exam season.
 
 Such is the alarm that GRP has now formed a dedicated squad to tackle these incidents, keeping close watch on Pune-Lonavala local trains during peak morning and evening hours, to provide better security — especially to female passengers — by taking immediate action against troublemakers.
 
 Pune Mirror spoke to a plethora of women commuters, who had a long list of disturbing experiences to narrate. Komal Shah, a student who travels daily from Chinchwad to Shivajinagar station, shared, “In the evenings, when we are in a rush to catch locals, one tends to get onto coaches without double-checking. A few months ago, I was travelling around 8 pm with two female friends, when a group of boys was constantly staring at us. Later, one of the boys in that group started following me around for a couple of weeks. Finally, I had to complain to a policeman at Shivajinagar station, who gave the boy a warning. It was only then that he stopped stalking me.” Said Shreya Dharwadkar, a student of Wadia College, “Earlier, I often got onto general coaches in a hurry, but got tired of men staring at me. There were also groups of boys passing lewd or abusive comments about women. The women’s coaches are heavily packed during peak hours, which is why many women use the general coaches. But, for the last six months at least, I have been restricting myself to the segregated coaches because I have no choice.” Added Prasad Sawant, a student from S P College, “I have witnessed many evening journeys on which some miscreants get onto locals without tickets, from stations like Kasarwadi. They do it just for ‘fun’, making noise and harassing fellow passengers. I have personally complained about this to the GRP many times, but these scoundrels can still be found on the trains.”
 
 Dr Prabhakar Budhvant, superintendent of police, GRP Pune division, confirmed, “Now that exam time is on, a huge number of students travel to and from Pune, Pimpri, Chinchwad, Talegaon and Lonavala for their studies — a majority use convenient local trains. For the last few days, there has been a spike in complaints on our helpline, especially about students, by women travelling on these locals, both from running trains and at stations. So, we decided to deploy special squads on local trains, comprising three female and three male cops. The team will conduct random checks on Pune-Lonavla locals during peak hours, and if any suspicious activity is apprehended, the offenders will face action. Till now, we have not lodged any major complaint of any crime, but it is necessary to be alert for the security of passengers.”
 
 Most troublemakers are believed to be youths with previous records of crimes, especially on running trains. Many come from slum areas near stations at Shivajinagar, Pimpri, Chinchwad and Kasarwadi.
 
 The special squad is to start checks from Pune railway station in split smaller teams of two, then get on to different local train coaches. Their duty will be from 6 am to 11 pm every day, making continuous to and fro trip between Pune and Lonavala. Currently, there are eight local trains on this route, running from 5 am to midnight, used by at least 20,000 passengers every day — mostly students and office-goers.
 
 A female cop on one squad told Mirror, “We travel in ladies coaches and keep changing bogies when trains stop at stations to check on and interact with female passengers, and see if they need help. We try to understand their daily issues and submit a report to the police station. If we get a call on the helpline, our nearest police station’s cops rush to that train to get to the complainant.”
 
 Students have welcomed this initiative. Passenger Preeti Kulkarni said, “With the number of passengers on the rise in locals, many are using this opportunity to abuse women. There have also been cases of women fighting this harassment in the past, but most don’t want to get into any trouble, so they fail to lodge police complaints. It is good to hear that GRP has come forward for the safety of women by deploying such squads in local trains.”
 
