NAGPUR: On Monday, the   has shown the doors to all the officials who have been holding important posts in their respective state associations and the  . One of the objectives of   is to see that the funds reach the grass root level. While   (VCA) became the first in the country to adopt the Lodha Committee recommendations, its districts are still struggling to run the game. None of them are affiliated by   and they don’t have voting powers.

 TOI spoke to various district officials about the ground reality. Fearing victimization, none of them spoke on record but presented the actual picture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When the Residential Academy was about to start, there used to be a   in every age category. Those teams would play selection matches along with three Nagpur teams. VCA teams were selected on the basis of performance in those matches. Now, Vidarbha teams are announced before the selection trials. So, there’s hardly any motivation for the district boys. Besides, the selectors don’t look at their performances for next year unless there is any extra ordinary performance by anyone. While VCA has increased matches, they are of no use when they are not conducted on time.
 
 
 
 There are no facilities for talented cricketers now. They go to trial matches, come back and sit idly at home as there’s hardly any club cricket in districts. While a Nagpur boy plays whole year in Guzder league and other tournaments in the region, a district boy either stops playing or if his parents can afford, he shifts to Nagpur. Parents in district are cutting off from the game slowly.
 
 
 
 If you leave aside Amaravati, Akola and Buldhana, there’s no cricket in districts. I think it should be called a ‘Nagpur Cricket Association’ in place of ‘Vidarbha Cricket Association’. Many clubs in districts have closed down as there are no tournaments. VCA demands umpires’ fees before the tournament. Why do you need umpires from Nagpur when you are organizing tournaments in districts? If four clubs want to play locally, they don’t need officials from Nagpur. The host district has to arrange their lodging and boarding apart from heavy fees. So, there are hardly any tournament for the last four five years.
 
 
 
 We have a lot of expectations from Prashant Sir. He did a lot for district cricket when he was an Academy director. He was very approachable. He had started Inter-district and Inter-Taluka tournaments. Every Taluka had a team. Every district had two teams—one from rural and one from city. A rural team would play against rural, while a city team would play against city. They would select the talented players and organize their camps in Nagpur. Then those players would appear for the final trials of Residential Academy. The tournaments would ensure that those not selected can play and improve their games at their places. Prashant Sir and Neil (D’Costa) Sir would ensure that talent wasn’t lost. They would speak to district officials and check their progress on a regular basis.
 
 
 
 Things got worse. From 60 players in the academy, VCA trimmed down the list to 30, then they took only 20 players and slowly they closed the shop. We want the academy to be operational again. We want more cricket here. We need those officials who can understand our problems and work on those instead of dictating terms. VCA gets money from BCCI but we don’t get anything from them. It’s very difficult to run the game without money and support. There are many associations in the country like Andhra and Karnataka who have their own grounds in district places. VCA doesn’t have its own ground at any of the district. They can have at least one quality ground between two districts. VCA has formed a committee with six-seven members from district. They are their own selected few people. There are talented coaches, umpires, video analysts in districts too but the development programme is only for a selected few. Tournaments were organized in substandard conditions. If somebody raises the voice, they boycott them.
 
 
 
 Neil had formed an emerging district programme for every district. Under that programme, every district would give round the year coaching to 20 talented boys. That programme is badly needed now. VCA has given qualified coaches to every academy in Nagpur. We need that in all the districts. Earlier, anyone could directly contact Neil if he thought that talented boy wasn’t given a fair trial. He would see him again and if he thought the boy deserved to be in Residential Academy, he would get it done. Apoorv Wankhede wasn’t part of the academy initially but he was inducted after Neil’s recommendation. If Vidarbha teams are doing well, a lot of credit should go to Neil’s coaching programme.
 
 
 
 The likes of Jitesh Sharma, Apporv Wankhede, Darshan Nalkande, Akshay Karnewar, Aditya Thakare, Atharva Taide, Ankush Wakode were the products of the academy. They had the talent and when they got the facilities, they started performing. The whole Under-23 team that qualified for the knock-outs this year is from academy. WE don’t agree with VCA officials. There’s enough talent in districts.
 
 
