GURUGRAM: Manish Bhardwaj, alias Kala, the kingpin of the fake arms licence scam, has filed a complaint against jailed   and officials of Gurgaon’s Bhondsi prison, accusing them of running an   racket from behind bars.

 Manish, who recently walked out on bail, sent a complaint through post to the DCP (crime) office and alleged that gangsters Manjeet Mahal, Binder Gujjar and history-sheeter Vijay Bhardwaj, along with some other inmates of Bondhsi  , had forced him to cough up Rs 9.5 lakh and hand over his Audi car to “stay safely in the prison”.
 
 Further, he alleged that jail officials, including then deputy superintendent of jail Rajkumar Hudda, were hand in glove with the gangsters in this extortion racket.
 
 Soon after entering the jail on March 5, Manish had met Vijay, who then asked him to pay Rs 10 lakh as “safety money”. When Manish refused to pay, Vijay thrashed him, allegedly at the behest of gangsters Mahal and Gujjar, and threatened him to kill him and his family.
 
 Subsequently, then deputy superintendent of jail Hudda locked Manish in a special cell, where two night guards (convicted inmates) Rajesh and Gopi thrashed him badly. The next day, Vijay and Hudda took him to gangster Mahal’s cell, where he was brutally beaten up again. This time, the gangster demanded Rs 50 lakh and allegedly threatened to frame him in fake cases if he failed to pay up.
 
 Manish then called his family from their phone and asked for the money. His family paid total Rs 9, 45,000 in installments to Krishna, who worked for Vijay.
 
 Also, after repeated threats, Manish asked his cousin brother Harsh to hand over his Audi car to Sandeep Kataria, brother-in-law of Mahal.
 
 “The nexus between these gangsters and jail staff has made life of other inmates a hell inside the jail,” Manish wrote in his complainant, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR has been filed against 10 persons under sections 323 (causing hurt), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Sector 5 police station last Friday (July 28). The accused include Mahal, Gujjar, Vijay, Mahal’s aide Sanjay, Mahal’s brothers-in-law Devender Kataria and Sandeep Kataria, Krishan, Rajesh and Gopi, and jail official Rajkumar Hudda.
 
 “We have lodged an FIR and are verifying the allegations. The accused inmates will be taken on production warrant for questioning soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 Jail superintendent Rattan Lal said he took charge of the prison in May. “Rajkumar Hudda has already been transferred to Jhajjar jail. But, we are watching all activities in the jail,” Lal added.
 
 In this regard, Vijay is serving life term in the murder of Delhi’s super cop ACP Rajbeer Yadav, who was gunned down in 2008. Gujjar, a gangster-turned-municipal councilor, was arrested in December 2015 in connection with the murder of a rival gang member and is still lodged in Bondhsi jail.
 
 Mahal, who is involvement in many heinous crimes including the murder of INLD leader Bharat Singh, was arrested around six-seven months earlier in connection with a murder. However, he was shifted to Tihar jail recently. 
 
 
