PANAJI: Goa Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) on Monday are confident the party will form the next state government backed by 23-25 seats in its kitty, but party insiders seem to have a different opinion and raised doubts over these estimates.

 While Goa will find out if the Congress’ estimates turn to reality on March 11, the party has already decided to go into a huddle and hold an “introspection” meeting for its workers and candidates.
 
 “Looking at the trends and the support we received over the last few years, people have blessed us by supporting the new faces. The party is expecting, in a conservative estimation, 23 seats. And if the last three days’ wave was that good, we are looking at bagging 24-25 seats,” GPCC president   said.
 
 Party workers suggest that the Congress would better its 2012 results but was unlikely to come close to the magic figure required to form the government. Several within the party hold the opinion that a hung assembly was more than likely on March 11 when the election results are declared.
 
 Faleiro’s statements at the press briefing added credence to the suggestion that the Congress would struggle to get the required numbers in the state assembly. 
 
 “We will have an introspection and take necessary steps to ensure that the movement to build and consolidate the party, the process started in the all the 40 blocks, is not stopped. In future, we want a cadre-based party,” Faleiro said.
 
 Despite elections being wrapped up in the state, the party still appeared in campaign mode with Faleiro reassuring that the Congress would provide a clean and lean governance model. He added that the Congress would “honour every word of the manifesto”.
 
 The party is confident that it will be able to secure Valpoi, Poriem, Margao, Ponda, Nuvem and Velim for itself but questions are being raised over the party’s chances in other constituencies.
 
 Faleiro hinted that several attempts had been made by the BJP to ensure the Congress lost in Navelim. “Navelim has become rich as money has been poured into my constituency. It is also unfortunate how recruits were allowed to vote without verifying if they were registered voters in their home town. I was not allowed to meet them and even the BLO was not allowed to identify them,” Faleiro said.
 
 The Congress said that the 700 votes of the Army recruits could swing the election results and that the BJP’s “dirty tricks department” was behind the “unfortunate” incident.
 
 
