AHMEDABAD: Multiple teams of Ahmedabad rural police solved the robbery of 1,750 cartons of ghee worth Rs 1.11 crore by seizing the entire stock from two places in Kutch and Mehsana and nabbed two receivers of the stolen goods. Search for the robbers is on.

 According to investigators, Nafis Ahmed Malek, a resident of Mumbai, had registered a complaint with Aslali police regarding robbery of the cartons containing 21 tonnes of ghee. The stock of   was going from Mother Dairy in   to Goregaon (E) in Mumbai. Malek, an employee of Singh Road Transport, was asleep along with the cleaner near Lambha village when four persons got on the truck at 2am on September 8 and overpowered the duo.
 
 The group then drove the truck on Kheda-Dholka road and dropped the two with the truck near a hotel while decamping with the entire stock in smaller trucks.
 
 R V Asari, SP, Ahmedabad rural, said, “Working on human and technical intelligence, the teams led by inspectors J M Chudasama, D D Sodha and sub inspectors S N Ramani and V M Koladara visited a farmhouse near Varshamedi village near Gandhidham in Kutch and found 5 tonnes of ghee worth Rs 24.78 lakh.”
 
 Another success came in form of seizure of 16 tonnes of ghee worth Rs 66.52 lakh from the residence of Khodaji Thakor in Rampur village near Mehsana. Police identified Yatin Dodiya, 27, as the receiver in Kutch and Mahesh Parmar, 46, in Mehsana.
 
 Investigators said that Mahesh Parmar has confessed to receiving stolen goods worth Rs 2 crore in past one year. It includes garments, unstitched cloth, body spray, electronic goods, oil, automobile spare parts, dry fruits and so on.
 
 “Just before major festivities, one can see a spurt in open trucks selling all kinds of goods on the roadside at half the price of original items. We believe that the ghee was to be sold ahead of   in similar fashion,” said an investigator. “We started investigation on the basis of batch number and traced the cartons. As it was stolen from near Ahmedabad, they tried to take it as far away as possible,” he said.
 
