LUDHIANA: The rift among office-bearers of the two rival groups of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) seems to have grown deeper. As Rajeev Jain, general secretary of the association — who was barred by president   to represent UCPMA, after he gave a memorandum to GST commissioner on the association’s letterhead without the president’s knowledge — has now accused the president and other office-bearers of flouting the norms. Jain has also claimed that the office-bearers had everything in their knowledge about his meeting with the commissioner, and as per the   constitution, he had the right to represent the association at any platform, and in fact, he was the custodian of the association as well.

 Speaking to TOI, Jain said: “They are levelling baseless accusations against me, which is part of the politics they are playing against me. As per the UCPMA constitution, I am in charge of the association office, as well as of all sorts of correspondence. So, I do not need to take permission of any sort from anyone for giving a memorandum or letter to anyone on behalf of the association. Moreover, as per rules, I am the custodian of the association as well, and can represent UCPMA on any platform on its behalf. My meeting with the GST commissioner was not a personal meeting, but it was organized for addressing issues being faced by our members.The rest of the office- bearers had complete knowledge about this meeting, and one of the office-bearers even gave his inputs on what issues should be raised with the commissioner. The president and other office-bearers of his group are indulging in mischievous acts, and deliberately not including me in the day-to-day meetings of the association ever since the new managing committee was formed. They have not even disclosed the password of the official e-mail id of the association, on which I have the right as per the constitution.”
 
 Jain also disclosed that so far, he had not received any notice or letter barring him from working as the general secretary of the association. Speaking on the issue, he said: “I have not received anything in writing from the president, so I will not give them any explanation about the meeting, until I get any correspondence from them in writing.”
 
 Responding to the objection raised by Navyug on why Rajeev Jain mentioned Gurmeet Kular’s name as ex-president of UCPMA in his press note and memorandum to the GST commissioner, Jain said: “I do not know what problems they have with  , and objections like this smell of personal vendetta against him. By the way, what wrong has been committed by mentioning his name, as not only is he an hounourable member of UCPMA, but also the former president. Aren’t there other former office-bearers of the association who keep sitting in the office with the present committee, and exploit the association’s resources?” 
 
 
