KOLKATA:  , a fake doctor who passed himself off as an allergy   and even had a   to him at the OPD of one of the city’s top clinics, was arrested by CID on Friday. Pandey was picked up from a   in Entally by   who posed as patients.

 Confirming the arrest, ADG (CID) Rajesh Kumar said: “Pandey has told us that he is attached with the OPD of Belle Vue Clinic. We will investigate his claim. When we confronted him, he claimed he was a unani practitioner. We then asked him how he was prescribing allopathic drugs and he could not answer.” 
 
 In his social networking site profile, Pandey claims he studied at Xinjiang Medical University. He calls himself an allergologist and ‘asthmologist’ who functions as a consultant at Belle Vue Clinic and Mediland Allergy and Asthma Centre Moulali. 
 
 Belle Vue CEO Pradip Tondon admitted that Pandey was “allowed a chamber” in the OPD. “I have learnt about the case just now. We are conducting an inquiry,” Tondon told TOI.
 
 Pandey is the fourth fake doctor to be arrested in the state this month. A fortnight ago, CID had arrested three fake doctors in north Bengal, one of whom, Kaiser Alam, had worked as an RMO at Kolkata’s Ruby General Hospital for a year and half.
 
 Pandey has submitted his registration documents (with the West Bengal Medical Council) and other certificates to the CID. 
 
 “He claimed before us that he procured his degree from China but couldn’t produce a genuine certificate We are ascertaining how he managed to practice in the city for so long without getting caught,” said a CID officer.
 
 The incident has left the city’s medial establishment scurrying for answers. According to sources, there is no established protocol in private hospitals and clinics to “verify” testimonials submitted by doctors applying for various medical posts. CID officers suspect Pandey and Kaiser Alam could be part of a much bigger racket functioning in Kolkata and the state. 
 
 On Thursday, the CID had arrested Ramesh Chandra Baidya, a 52-year-old secretary of the Barasat-based Alternative Medical Council, Calcutta, who claimed to have issued 550 fake medical degrees.
 
 “There are several doctors from leading hospitals and attached with OPDs whose degrees are suspect. We will investigate all these leads,” ADG Rajesh Kumar said.
 
