Eleven days into the Vikram Chatterjee-Sonika Chauhan accident that shook the nation, Vikram, who was behind the wheel that night, has confessed to the police that he was indeed drinking in the wee hours of April 29. The catch? He maintains that he wasn't out of his senses. The car, he said to the police, must have skid off the tram line on Rashbehari Avenue resulting in the fatal accident, thus negating the first of all the claims that another car had taken an off course.

 Vikram and Sonika's common friend, actor  , who is also one of the prime witnesses of the case, is happy with the way the investigation is proceeding. When CT got in touch with him, he said, “ As a friend, I'm glad Vikram spoke the truth. No one is alleging he's a murderer. No one is questioning his intent that night. I just wanted him to own up to the fact that he was drinking that night, which he was.“
 
 Anindya also raised a very pertinent point with regards to drinking. He said, “We speak of being   as it depends on the amount of alcohol when really , it depends a lot on an individual and his capacity of drinking too. It is for the individual who's drinking to decide whether or not he is drunk enough. It was imperative that Vikram came out and told everyone the truth. The law will take its own course. Now that he has surrendered, I hope he comes out of it clean. Sonika was very close to me but I have never, for once, denied my friendship with Vikram.“
 
 
  
 According to police sources, though Vikram has admitted to having alcohol that night, he has clearly refuted allegations of speeding. He has maintained that he was driving the car at a speed of 60-70 km/hr. When asked about his claims of trying to dodge a collision with another car, he has said that he cannot remember any such thing. Instead, he brought up the possibility of his car tyres skidding off the tram line.
 
 Forensics reports are now being looked into to delve deeper into the functioning or the lack thereof in the car. The car's EDR (event data recorder) is also being looked into for answers. Even after 11 days of the accident, there are more ques tions than answers. The police is trying to look into CCTV footage to understand where all in the city Vikram went around before the journey ended near Lake Mall at 3.30 am.
  
 
