CHENNAI: Taking exception to ‘Y’ category security extended to the former chief minister  , the AIADMK (Amma) faction on Tuesday took a dig at   at the Centre by stating that rebel leader remains in the “clutches of saffron camp as a remand prisoner.” 

 While the leadership has refrained from making any direct attack on the BJP government till date, Dr Namadhu MGR, the mouth piece of AIADMK (which now favours the Sasikala camp), published a critical article in its Tuesday edition, taking on both Panneerselvam and BJP government. This is the second time in less than a week, the Sasikala faction flayed the BJP leadership after two leaves symbol was frozen by the election commission. Jaya TV, the party channel last week ran a bulletin with “views” of the public and cadres, slamming the Modi government for freezing the symbol. 
 
 Under the caption, “Y security Why?” the article written under a pen name, dubbed the Centre’s protection, unnecessary. It drew parallel to the security cover extended by the Centre to the leaders of Sangh Parivar across the country. “It is similar to providing Y and Z category security cover for leaders of RSS and other affiliated groups. Was Panneerselvam given this unnecessary protection considering him as being part of the RSS camp?” It alleged that the Centre’s move was to keep the ‘jackal’ under its surveillance with armed protection and to ensure it does not get away from its scanner.
 
 Wondering what made the Centre act, the article sought to know if OPS was indeed a saint in public life or a fighter, who retrieved natural resources from sand and quarry mafias or given away his assets worth hundreds of crores to the people of Tamil Nadu. “Nothing. So, what is the necessity for Y category,” it said. Party spokesperson Nanjil Sampath said it has only brought to light the alleged links of BJP-OPS in their attempt to split the party and destabilize the government. “The NDA government is only misusing its powers to protect a person, who has no mass support,” Sampath said.
 
 The Union home ministry on March 31 announced its intention to bring the leader under its cover. This came 10 days after the OPS camp met home minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi and sought protection for their leader. They cited the “grave threats” the former CM received after he turned rebel. Police has registered a case against former MLA and party South Chennai (North) secretary V P Kalairajan for allegedly threatening to chop off OPS’ hands. “Pannerselvam is a former CM and is entitled to have protection. We are a separate entity with an identity of our own. BJP is also in the fray, and is our opponent,” P H Manoj Pandian, one of the leaders of OPS camp said.
 
