LUCKNOW: Lack of  , protection and education are not the only factors that impede a child’s development, a biased syllabus and domestic violence could be equally to blame. Issues related to child well-being were discussed in a conclave on ‘vote for children’, organised by The Times group to draft ‘Children’s Charter 2017’ at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan on Saturday.

  on social issues, political leaders, NGOs and schools participated to discuss issues like nutrition, education, violence, syllabus, child labour, freedom and rights of children and speakers included Prof Roop Rekha Verma, Surojit Chatterji, Anil Agarwal, Deep Jyoti Da, Shri Devi and Rachna.
 
 As per records of   (NCRB), more than 11,000 cases of violation of child rights, domestic violence, harassment, child labour and others were registered in 2015-16. Roop Rekha Verma said whether privileged or not, no child was enjoying joyful life to the fullest.
 
 “People are parenting children like an authority, giving them a domineering mindset,” said Verma, adding that children were being taught lessons of communal difference, discrimination, religion and other unnecessary things in schools. “These books are major reason for children not developing and becoming ill-tempered,” she said.
 
 IPS officer Anil Agarwal said, “We received on dial 100 hundreds of complaints and domestic violence scored highest. Children and senior citizens are getting beaten up in their homes.” 
 
 A Millennium School student Ayushi asked Agarwal, why some personal problems go viral and the officer said it was a good thing because when it goes viral, the issue is taken up more seriously and the culprits are brought to books, while it becomes a precedent for all. Another member of the panel Rachna said stopping children from doing what comes to them naturally, for example, playing is also a crime. 
 
 Advocate Dev Jyoti Das spoke on child labour and said, “Under privileged children fail to receive proper education for lack of economic support and are forced into labour. Similar is the case of child abuse case, in which often relatives are culprits but now law is more helpful and supportive.” Another member of the panel Shri Devi said literacy could help prevent crime against children. 
 
 Rani Laxmi Bai awardee Muskan Khan presented a dance while children from Nav Jagriti Shelter home presented a group performance. Millennium students presented a play that presented the contrast between life of a poor family visavis their ich counterparts.
 
