New Delhi: About a month after it found itself in an embarrassing situation on realising that almost all 12 schemes supported by the central and Delhi governments for the award of scholarships to SC/ST/OBC and minority students had lapsed in 2016-17,   of the Aam Aadmi Party government have written to the departments under them to emphasise that no matter should be kept out of their knowledge.

 The letter sent to the departments alleges that some officials are not following the orders given by ministers-in-charge and, in certain cases, not informing the ministers of communication received from the Centre. The strictly worded letter says that any “deviation will be treated as insubordination and dealt with accordingly”.
 
 “No decision will be taken and no order will be passed by any secretary/principal secretary/chief secretary without the approval of minister-in-charge. Likewise, the views of the department on any issue shall not be communicated without the approval of minister-in-charge. Views from another department shall be sought only after seeking approval of minister in charge,” says the order.
 
 Sources in the government said that unlike during the tenure of Najeeb Jung as lieutenant governor when officials bypassed ministers and got matters cleared directly by him, there were no such apparent problems with incumbent LG Anil Baijal and hence, the order was not issued with any reference to that office.
 
 Instead, it referred to rule 21 of the Transaction of Business Rules, which says that all communication received from the central government, other than those of routine nature, should be submitted to the departmental secretary, minister-in-charge, chief minister and LG as soon as possible after its receipt. The letter said that this rule is not being followed in full.
 
 “The same shall henceforth be strictly adhered to. It has also been observed that some of the officers are openly flouting the orders/directions of ministers. All officers are directed to comply with the orders/directions of their respective official superiors,” the order said.
 
 The letter, in which the scholarship matter has been referenced as an example of issues that are getting side-lined, said that had the lapse of the schemes been “brought to the notice of CM or the education minister, this mess could have been avoided”.
 
 Reacting to the letter having been posted on a social media website, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia claimed that it had in all probability been leaked by the LG’s office. “This copy of the order has been leaked by the LG’s office. On page 2 of the letter, it can be seen that this particular copy was marked to the LG,” Sisodia tweeted. The LG’s office did not comment on the issue.
 
 Sisodia said that he discovered when holding review meeting as part of the outcome budget exercise that several matters were going “around in circles among officials without ever coming to ministers”. The letter said that files were being dealt with by bureaucrats, “keeping their minister and CM in the dark”.
 
 The deputy CM asserted, “Files have been pending for five to six months because of bureaucratic delay. The bureaucrats may know what is best for a project, but the ministers know what is best for the public and we need to be kept in the loop at all times to be able to take timely decisions,” asserted Sisodia.
 
 
