UDUPI: Magsaysay Award winner and convener of National Safai   (SKA) Bezwada Wilson said here on Wednesday that   was not a choice for workers and that the society has made the inhuman practice vital for their survival.

 Wilson inaugurated ‘Article-19’, India’s oldest core communication fest, at   here on Wednesday. “Manual scavenging is not a choice for a worker but a system imposed by the society wherein he and his family won’t survive if he doesn’t do it. We internalize them so much that their resistance is never recognized,” he said.
 
 A relentless warrior against the colonial-era practice, Wilson said, “Manual scavenging needs to be discussed openly and not passionately or shamefully. It’s an act against the very symbol of humanity. Our society does not treat human beings equally.”
 
 “Laws prohibiting dry latrines and manual scavenging haven’t been strictly enforced. Many villages still have separate colonies for the dalits. The inequality begins from the kitchen in our house, still meant to be a place for women. Women not allowed in mosques and even some temples. Instead of putting restrictions on what one should wear, eat, who to love, we must discuss and restrict malnutrition and hunger, which has 40% of our population starving,” he said.
 
 Wilson said that they have submitted a memorandum to the Prime Minister and President of India but there has been no response yet, and that building toilet was not Swachh Bharat, mechanized sewer cleaning plants are the need of the hour.
 
 “In India, waste flushed from coaches on tracks are cleaned manually. Our government has money for a bullet train but no money to tackle the crucial issue of sanitation. Until our sewers get mechanized and enough septic tank suction machines are put to work, Swachh Bharat cannot be achieved. The government’s budget for rehabilitation of manual scavengers is a mere Rs 5 crore. It was Rs 570 crore three years ago and Rs 10 crore last year,” Wilson said.
 
 He said the country’s youth must take charge of the society and bring social changes.
 
 
