LUCKNOW: Breaking hearts at the time of appraisal is not the only thing a   can do. One's manager can also be the cause of cardiovascular disease in subordinates, suggests a study on 'key barriers to stay heart healthy'.

 "Over 77% of Lucknowites feel that stress with their boss impacts heart health," noted the study conducted across 6 cities by AC Neilsen for Saffola Life, a not for profit initiative of Marico to create awareness on cardiovascular diseases. Released ahead of the World Heart Day, the study noted that work stress was one of the main barriers to the heart of health.
 
 Releasing the study here on Wednesday, executive committee member Research Society for Study of  , Dr Anuj Maheshwari said, "Body pumps out stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol in the quest to catch up with deadlines and live to the expectations of the boss. When this becomes a daily routine, body stays flooded with these chemicals which eventually gets converted them into cholesterol and manifests as heart disease.” 
 
 Boss also lends a face to work stress which also recorded a high prevalence in Lucknow. The survey showed that 77% of Indians (against 83% respondents in Lucknow) found job stress as a barrier to the health of their heart. This was in addition to long working hours and sleep deprivation which cause physical exertion while stealing time for relaxation.
 
 "Sound sleep of 6-8 hours is necessary for the body to rejuvenate itself. The survey showed that 74% Indians including 77% Lucknowites were not getting adequate sleep. Fatigue caused by long working hours is also linked to sleep disturbance," explained Dr Maheshwari adding, "sleep deprivation among Indians stands corroborated with their responses against long working hours. Over 80% respondents across six cities stated that they worked for long hours (or more than eight hours a day)."
 
 The saffola life survey only reflected what has been noted in various researches across the world. A November 2008 study by Sweedish researchers published in medical journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine, said that there was an association between 'perceived leadership of managers and the risk of serious heart problems among workers'. It also suggested that the relationship spoke about the leadership skills of the bosses and the competance of the subordinates.
 
 Similarly, an online article in Harvard Women Health Watch of Harvard Health Publishing (a unit of Harvard Medical School) associated an 'overbearing boss' with chronic stress. 'Chronic stress—whether from a traffic-choked daily commute, unhappy marriage, or overbearing boss—has been linked to a wide range of harmful health effects. It can interfere with your mood, sleep, appetite and cause broken heart syndrome.'
 
 Sharing more about the broken heart syndrome, secretary state mental health authority, professor SC tewari said, "Broken heart syndrome is a real thing. It is like a bombardment of stress hormones over the heart when someone breaks a bad news to a person." 
 
 Citing examples, he said, "sudden death of someone very dear can cause the broken heart syndrome. The event of lovers separating or boss coming with a pink slip can also cause the intense stress." Interestingly, even good news delivered all of a sudden can startle or shock the heart. "This means that one can also die of good news," he said.
 
