GURUGRAM: It’s Sunday morning and you’re feeling relaxed. Time, then, to tell you an interesting story, one that will get you thinking. It’s the story of   and  .

  Not too long ago there lived a handsome boy called Harry. Harry drove a red   and was often sharply dressed. And no prizes for guessing that he was quite a head turner. Sally was a cheerful and bubbly girl. She was the life of most parties and all her friends loved her.
 
  One day, Sally was sitting inside a coffee shop enjoying her latte and reading a book when in walked Harry. He ordered his coffee and from the corner of his eye spotted Sally. He picked up his coffee, walked up to her table boldly, and introduced himself, “Hi! I’m Harry. Can I join you?”
 
  Sally was also bowled over by Harry’s looks and immediately replied, with a smile, “Hi! I’m Sally and yes you may.” Harry now had all of Sally’s attention. So, he looks her in the eye confidently and says, “I live just a few blocks down the road. You must have seen me driving my red Ferrari. It’s quite an amazing car.” Sally was amazed. “Wow! A Ferrari? That’s awesome. I’ve never driven a Ferrari and would love to take it for a spin someday.” Just then, Sally’s friend   walks in and Sally waves at her. She gets up and leaves, promising to meet Harry again soon.
 
  A few days later, Harry bumps into Sally again, at the grocery shop. He makes a beeline for her and says, “Hi there. I’m Harry, remember me? I live a few blocks down the road and drive a lovely red Ferrari.” Sally is surprised to see him. “Off course I do Harry. How are you? I often come down here to the grocery store to pick up ingredients for baking cakes. I love baking cakes. Maybe someday you could taste my cakes and tell me what you think.” Harry nodded, smiled and the two went their ways.
 
  Harry keeps bumping into Sally. Sometimes at the mall, sometimes in the football stadium, and sometimes at the movies. Every time she tells him something new about herself but Harry, on the other hand, always gives out the same message – of how he lives down the block and how he drives his red Ferrari. Eventually, Sally loses interest in Harry and starts to avoid him.
 
  Now imagine, for a moment, that Harry was a brand and Sally your customer. Your customer often discovers you online. They fall in love with you. They also give you vital information about themselves (opt in). Sally told Harry that she would love to drive the red Ferrari, and that she loved baking cakes and even invited him to taste a few. She also introduced him to her friend Betty. What did the brand (Harry) tell her at every interaction? The same thing – that he lives a few blocks down the road and that he drives a red Ferrari. Which at first was interesting but became more boring with every retelling. It was information that Sally wasn’t really interested in.
 
  The same thing happens to our customers. They give us vital data with every interaction but if brands don’t use that data to their advantage, they land up bombarding the customer with the same message, over and over again. Which, beyond a point, is ineffective, and a waste of marketing dollars.
 
  So, if you have not thought about it this way, it’s time you did. Dive in and take a look at all the data your prospective customers are giving you, and use that to your advantage. It’s never too late. Because data-driven marketing is the future.
 
  Happy Sunday!
 
 (The author is Head-Digital, Cheil India)
 
 By Sanjeev Jasani
