HYDERABAD: Massive crackdown by the police have had little impact on drink driving cases in the city. The first 20 days of 2017 saw 627 tipsy drivers being caught! This comes after New Year’s eve notched up about 957 cases, the maximum ever in a single day. Of the offenders caught this year, 217 have been directed to take up social service on city roads while 407 have been jailed for a duration of 1-5 days. 

 Traffic campaigns, checks, fines, punishments and imprisonments appear to have failed to deter the city   drivers. Incidentally, the Road Safety Authority’s ongoing ‘Road Safety Week’, which is inching towards closure, plans to mark January 31 as ‘accident-free day’. But going by the number of arrests this year, drunk drivers are likely to keep the police busy. Experts attribute the rising drink driving cases to ‘belt shops’ and illegal liquor outlets. The ever increasing ‘pick-up speed’ of vehicles is also a reason for jump in drink-driving accidents, they say. 
 
 The excise department has the numbers for only licensed outlets, but it has no count of ‘belt shops’. Of the 2,216 retail outlets in the state, 621 are in Hyderabad and the city also accounts for half of the 805 bars in the state. 
 
 “The purchasing power in general has gone up over the years, leading to more consumption of liquor. Most importantly, the pick-up speed of motorcycles and cars has been on the rise. The newer versions are very responsive to acceleration and often users underestimate the speed it can reach within seconds, more so when drunk,” explained ex-DGP of united   under whose tenure in 2005 city cops had intensified checks on drink driving. Stressing on the need for excise and revenue departments to get involved in the enforcement system, he said that a detailed research should be done on proximity of liquor outlets and hotels to accident sites.
 
 Experts also reiterated the need for stricter action against offenders. As of now, driving licenses are suspended only for third-time offenders. No offence attracts cancellation of license. 
 
 “The only thing that can bring this under control is enforcement. But it has to be more visible. Messages specifying the punishment and consequences should be pasted across the city. Suspension of licenses is a big deterrent. It should be taken up for first-time offences as this is a life-threatening offence where the person knowingly endangers his/her life as well as that of others,” said  , director operations of Save Life Foundation.
 
