HYDERABAD: The case related to poaching of deer in   district on March 19, continues to throw up twists and turns that can put a Bollywood pot-boiler to shame. While a probe into the case and arrests have been progressing in fits and starts, it has emerged that the rot that resulted in the lack of progress into the investigations began at home, within the forest and police departments. 

 Multiple sources confirmed at least one field level officer of the forest department as well as the police department have been acting as moles for the gang of poachers who now officially include  , a powerful local ruling TRS leader from  . 
 
 More shocking was the admission by a senior officer in the forest department that some officers had got calls from TRS leaders in the government to go slow on the probe. This was confirmed by another official in the department.
 
 The confirmation of the moles came after two raids since this Sunday by a top forest department official ended with the teams returning empty handed. All it took was the 10 or so minutes lead time in both cases, the raid on Akbar Khan's residence in Mahadevpur on Sunday and the one on the house where  , one of the new additions to the list of accused in the case, also in Mahadevpur, on Monday.
 
 The raids were led by additional principal chief conservator of forests   who has been in the area since Sunday. On Monday, a raid on the house where Gattaiah lived that began with a 10-minute lead time, resulted in officials finding a locked door. However, a mobile phone soon rang from in the house that brought Gattaiah's wife rushing from a neighbour's house. It was learnt that officials overheard a man's voice asking her if 'the things from the other day' have been removed from the house. She told officials that she had been away from the house for more than an hour. It is learnt that officials, who found rice being cooked on a live stove lay bare her story. On Sunday too, it was the same case with Akbar Khan's house being locked and when officials called his wife - the local ZPTC member - on her phone, she came but 'failed' to provide any information on her husband's whereabouts. Officials did not find anything related to the poaching incident in the house during their inspection.
 
 
