JAIPUR: The Pink City has shown that they are no pushovers when it comes to CAT exams.

 Around 20 students scored 99 percentile and more when the   were announced on Monday. This is highest number of students making it to the elite 99+ percentile club in recent years.
 
 A good number of commerce students also made it to the 95-99 percentile bracket.
 
 Chartered accountant Ajay Agarwal of Jaipur, who completed his graduation from Rajasthan University’s Commerce College and CA from the city, scored 99.82 percentile.
 
 Agarwal’s passion for launching his own startup led him to studying management. “I am involved in my family business. While planning my own venture, I felt the need of have a proper training in management. Finally, I decided to take MBA degree from IIM,” said Agarwal.
 
 Preparing for the CAT exam was not that easy for Agrawal who is a ‘full-time worker’.
 
 “I went for coaching in the morning and then to my family business. I would then study till late at night,” said Agarwal. He is hoping for calls from  , Bangalore, etc. Having cleared CA, which is among the most difficult exams, he was confident of clearing CAT in the first attempt.
 
 The top slots went to engineering students, mostly from BITS Pilani. Raag Khandelwal of BITS Pilani scored 99.99 percentile to make it to the elite club of eight students in India to have scored the same. A native of Hyderabad, Khandelwal is pursuing integrated MSc maths and BE in civil engineering from BITS Pilani.
 
 Having cleared CAT in his first attempt, he is planning to become an entrepreneur. “This is my ultimate goal,” said an elated Khandelwal, whose parents are entrepreneurs.
 
 While explaining why engineers are making a beeline for management degrees, he said, “Both streams look apposite, but they complement each other in the present corporate world. My engineering background will give me an upper edge over others.”
 
 Shubham Goyal, another student of BITS Pilani, scored 99.94 percentile. Since engineering with a management degree would multiply his opportunities, Goyal left no stone unturned for CAT exam. “I studied simultaneously for engineering and prepared for CAT. My hard work paid off. But I am a little disappointed for missing 100 percentile by 0.05 points,” said Goyal.
 
 Another Jaipur student from commerce background also had a telling score. Samyak Bairathi, a final-year commerce student from St Xavier’s College, scored 99.41 percentile. “The MBA degree from a reputed IIM was my dream. I am excited and waiting to receive calls from IIMs,” said Bairathi. He wants to start a sports management company to live his dream of being a sportsman. “Sports awareness has increased in the country with new leagues and introduction of various sports. This will create a potential for sports management firms,” said Bairathi.
 
