CHANDIGARH: AAP candidate for the   Lok Sabha bypoll Maj Gen   (retd) is one of the 130 candidates who have applied for the six vacant coveted posts of Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC).

 A number of other serving and retired IAS, IPS officers, PCS, defence officers, lecturers and social workers have also shown their interest in these posts. Other most notable names include: Punjab IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang, retired IAS officer Achhru Ram Talwar, retired IPS officer G D Pandey, and retired PCS officer H K Nagpal.
 
 Khajuria (64) has done MPhil in defence and strategic studies from the University of Madras in 2008. He hails from Bungal village in Pathankot and in his 37 years defence service, he has served two tenures as brigade commander and division commander in Punjab. AAP had declared him as its candidate for the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll on September 17.
 
 Narang is presently holding the post of managing director of the state-run Pepsu Road Transport Corporation ( ). He is going to superannuate on January 31, 2019. In case he is selected, he would retire as PPSC member at the age of 62 years. PPSC, now headed by Lt Gen NPS Hira (retd), has 10 posts of members.
 
 Former IPS officer Pandey superannuated on August 31 from the post of DGP-cum-commandant general of Punjab home guards and director civil defence. Whereas, Talwar retired in March 31, 2014, and had earlier also applied for the post of information commission in the Central Information Commission and   in 2014. Nagpal had superannuated as PCS officer on June 30, 2015.
 
 The Punjab government had on August 16 invited applications from “eminent persons of impeccable integrity, high caliber and administrative experience” to fill up five vacancies of member (official) and one vacancy of member (non-official) of PPSC. Last date for receipt of applications is September 29.
 
 The state government has already constituted a search committee headed by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh for recommending a panel of names. The search committee would recommend 18 suitable candidates to the high-powered committee comprising of CM Amarinder Singh, vidhan sabha speaker Rana Kanwarpal Singh and leader of opposition Sukhpal Khaira. The high powered committee would further recommend names to Governor V P Singh Badnore.
 
 Anybody who has held office for at least 10 years either under the central or state government can apply for the post of member (official). Whereas for the post of member (non-official) any eminent person can apply.
 
