Mumbai: On a brisk, first day as chairman of  ,   chose to convey a clear message by underlining his plan to keep an eye on capital allocations and enhance shareholder returns across group companies.

 Chandra, an early riser, left his Worli residence to cast a vote in BMC polls before getting to   House to meet his successor, Rajesh Gopinathan. Having said his goodbyes at TCS, Chandra, who was wearing a regulation dark blue suit and red tie, headed straight to Bombay House, headquarters of the  . He arrived at 9.15 am in his blue Jaguar and was met at the steps by waiting mediapersons. He, along with  , garlanded a bust of Tata founder Jamsetji Tata. 
 
 Chandra’s first board meeting as chairman of Tata Sons started at 11am and lasted an hour and a half. It was attended by all members, some joining in via video links. The agenda, however, was routine, apart from Ratan Tata taking over as chairman emeritus. “I welcome Chandra, who has successfully displayed his leadership in his career at TCS. I’m sure he will bring considerable value to his leadership role in the Tata Group in the years ahead,” said Tata. 
 
 The 54-year-old Chandra spent the rest of the day working out of a make-shift office on the fourth floor of the heritage building, meeting key officials of the group. In statements to the media and employees during the day, Chandra said Tata firms need to deliver “industry-leading” performance, stressing on the point that group companies would have to be leaders in respective sectors and not followers.
 
 “As a group, we have enormous collective strengths. Working together, our (group) companies, Tata Sons and the Tata Trusts have been very successful in the past, and have created great value for all our stakeholders. Now, as we face the future, we have a huge opportunity to do so once again — in terms of our business performance,” said Chandra, adding companies should “lead, not follow”.
 
 Only two companies — TCS and Tata Motors — from the 100-plus group entities currently account for more than half of the conglomerate’s $104-billion revenue and about 90% of total profit.
 
 Chandra’s statements indicated a keenness to make group companies, Tata Sons and Tata Trusts work closely, “to bring the power of One Tata to bear upon our business”.
 
 Chandra highlighted that his immediate priorities include tightening capital allocation rules and boosting shareholder returns. Tata Sons and its principal shareholder Tata Trusts’ main income are from dividends. TCS’ dividend accounted for 91% of Tata Sons revenues. 
 
 Chandra finally logged out at 7 pm on one of the most important days in his 30-year career.
 
 
