PATNA: The research council of Vanijya Mahavidyalay organised a lively discussion on ‘The effect of political turmoil on business’ here on Saturday. College principal B N Pandey presided. 

 Senior commerce teachers N K Pandey, A K Singh, Ahmad Hussian, S B Lal and   pointed out that political instability weakens the economy of the state or country. College teacher Shiv Shankar Prasad proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 Cleanliness campaign: All the colleges and postgraduate departments of Patna University (PU) will launch a fortnight-long cleanliness and sapling plantation campaign from August 1 to 15, said   vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh.
 
 Addressing a meeting of National Service Scheme (NSS) programme officers, the VC said the   would connect with the newly admitted students and organize youth orientation programme in the new academic session. The NSS would also celebrate International Youth Day on August 12 on a grand scale, he added.
 
 PU NSS programme coordinator Atul Aditya Pandey and programme officers Ameeta Jaiswal, Pushpa Sinha, Ajay Kumar Pandey, Archana Katiyar, D K Paul, Sanjay Kumar, Sunita Roy and Kiran Mala attended the meeting.
 
 Memorial lecture: PU history department students Bhawna Singh and Arti Kumari received the V A   Memorial Awards for academic excellence at a function organised at Patna College seminar hall here on Thursday.
 
 National   retired professor Santosh Kumar delivered the V A Narain memorial lecture on ‘Water: The elixir of life from past to present’ and outlined the importance of water in our daily life. He said at the present rate of consumption, water is going to be a scarce commodity soon. It is estimated that by 2025, India will become a water stressed nation when the per capita availability of water would decline to 1,000 cubic metres per year, he said.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh recalled the valuable contributions of Prof V A Narain in the all-round development of the university and gave away awards to the students.
 
 Magadh Mahila College former principal Mala Ghosh and PU history department former heads   S Kumar, Prashant Dutt and Ran Vijoy Kumar also spoke on the occasion. A short film on ‘How the water came to Earth’ was also screened.
 
 
