CHURACHANDPUR: This year, the fiercest   is being fought in  , a   located  . Named after maharaja Sir Churachand Singh in early 1920, it is the only place in the state which bears the name of a Manipuri king. Churachand was one of the two kings to be knighted by the British. 

 Former Congress heavyweight and now National People's Party (NPP) candidate Phungzathang Tonsing and BJP's V Hangkhalian are fighting against each other from Churachandpur, the state's most developed hill town. With 53,000 voters, it is one of the biggest constituencies of the state. 
 
 From water supply, drainage system, congested market place to dusty roads, various issues have been raised in this urban constituency this election. People here are very critical of the ongoing economic blockade called by the United Naga Council as it has increased their cost of living significantly. 
 
 But for Paite tribals, who are in a majority here, the death of nine agitators in 2015 while protesting against the passing of three 'anti-migrant' bills by the assembly is the most important issue. Eight of the bodies still lay 'unclaimed' inside the morgue of Churachandpur district hospital. 
 
 The two main contenders, both Paites, are trying to ensure that they don't hurt the sentiments of the majority comunity. That's why Tonsing left Congress and joined NPP after Congress became unpopular among Paite residents. During the 45-minute chat with TOI at his house, which was burnt during the 2015 agitation, Tonsing mistakenly said 'our Congress'. However, he was quick to say, "I keep uttering the name of Congress. I have left the party and joined NPP as it is a secular party. I respected the wishes of my voters," he said. Tonsing was a senior Congress minister and state PCC chief.
 
 "I met chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh and told him about my compulsion. I will never criticise or praise Congress. But I was a little hurt when I was dropped from the ministry last year. I am the seniormost Congress leader and you can't treat me like this," said Tonsing. The CM dropped him from his ministry in a bid to tame rebellion inside the party early last year.
 
 Tonsing first joined Congress in 1972 by winning the district council polls. He won the assembly polls in 1980 from Thanlon and represented the seat in 1984 and 1990. He shifted to Churachandpur in 2000 after he lost Thanlon in 1995. But he lost again in 2000 to Hangkhalian. Tonsing then staged a comeback in 2002, 2007 and the 2012 elections from Churachandpur and became one of the most prominent tribal Congress leaders.
 
 Hangkhalian has been elected to the state assembly thrice - 1995, 2000 (Churachandpur seat) and 2007 (Thanlon). He lost in 2002 (Churachandpur) and also in 2012 (from Thanlon). 
 
 It's the third time that the two leaders are contesting against each other. "This time, BJP is placed well in Churachandpur. The wind is blowing on our side," said Hangkhalian, focusing on the issue of nine 'tribal martyrs'. He added, "They died for a cause for which we call them martyrs. The families of the deceased are still waiting for an honourable burial."
 
 Is this the only issue he highlights? "Just see any locality of Churachandpur, you cannot drive your car because of the dust. There is no drinking water in the town. The Congress government has failed to deliver," Hangkhalian said and repeated BJP's slogan of 'bandh and blockade-free Manipur'. But his priority is to give an honourable burial to the deceased.
 
 Tonsing, however, feels the issues have been politicalised. "I may be wrong but criticising the government will not help. A dialogue is the only solution," said the veteran politician. He added, "All communities make Manipur colourful. Past is past. Let Manipur be united and successful." He said Manipur's integrity is the most important at this juncture.
 
 Being the sitting MLA, he highlighted his achievements as the health minister. 
 
 Despite being a Paite-majority constituency, the other smaller tribes will also have a major say in the election outcome. While the 27,000 Paite votes would be divided because the two main contenders are from the tribe, the remaining 26,000 voters will call the shots. The other tribes are Hmars, Zous, Simtes, Meiteis, Mizos, Kukis, Vaipheis, Bengalis, Nepalis, Meitei Muslims and Tiddium Chins. 
 
 
