BHUBANESWAR: From engaging   to educate school and college students on importance of respecting senior citizens to mobilising volunteers at bus stands to guide the elderly to their respective buses, the state government has set out to prioritise senior citizens like never before.

 “We recently held a meeting where it was proposed that we will educate school and college students about significance of elders in their families. It is often seen that the elderly people are being neglected in families. We may engage Brahma Kumaris to instil moral education among children regarding respect to elders,” an officer of department of social security and empowerment of persons with disability (SSEPD) said. 
 
 TOI has seen proceedings of a recent meeting in which the government decided to name a welfare scheme of senior citizens as ‘Abadan’. The SSEPD plans to constitute   (CMS) in districts and appoint two counsellors at a consolidated amount of Rs 30,000 for each in every district to address the issues of senior citizens. Unlike senior citizen security cell (SCSC) functioning in police stations, the proposed CMS will function in district collectorate buildings. 
 
 “We also plan to form district committees for senior citizens and ensure free legal aids to them. We will also ensure that the private and government buses reserve some seats for senior citizens. Private volunteers will be engaged in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Sambalpur and Rourkela for assistance of the elderly at bus stands,” the officer said. 
 
 The SSEPD department said they are considering a proposal of the commissionerate police to sanction Rs 77.60 lakh towards safety and security of senior citizens. “We have strengthened the senior citizen security cells in police stations in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. The cells so far registered 6176 elderly people in Bhubaneswar and 4213 in Cuttack so far. We will soon launch a web-based application to make the registration process of senior citizens online. Senior citizens can also upload details of their tenants, domestic helps and drivers online,” commissioner of police YB Khurania said.
 
 Senior citizens said the police should be accessible during time of need. “We urge the police to deploy more police personnel for effective functioning of the SCSCs. Due to shortage of staff and overburdened duties, the nodal officers now are unable to visit us regularly,” said Jugal Kishore Sahoo, general secretary of Federation of Senior Citizens’ Association of Odisha. “The state government should first create a database of elderly persons, staying alone in vulnerable conditions. The government should ensure that lonely elders get different benefits at doorsteps,” Sahoo said.
 
