BHUBANESWAR: Apprehensive of brawls by revellers at some New Year parties in hotels, the   have laid down a set of guidelines for event management companies, who plan to   for Holi at different places in the city. 

 So far, at least 25 event managers have approached the city police, seeking permission to organzse Holi parties. "Earlier we used to grant permission to everyone. This time, we will examine safety standards, mostly for women, at the venues before granting permission," said DCP Satyabrata Bhoi. 
 
 Bhoi said the licensing cell of his office will inspect the venues and check the security measures. "We will strictly ask the event managers not to overcrowd the venues. They will also be asked to depute licensed private security guards. Special care should be taken to ensure safety of women. Separate arrangements should be made for female revellers and families in groups," Bhoi said. 
 
 Police said no event manager will be allowed to serve liquor at the Holi parties. "We will make surprise checks. The event managers will also have to ensure that the participants do not consume alcohol outside and enter the venue in a drunken state. The organizers should keep alcohol breathalyser devices," Bhoi said.
 
 The police were on toes during celebrations of New Year parties in some hotels on the December 31 night. Tipsy revellers had created a ruckus at some places and ransacked a hotel's dining space. Another hotel had sold tickets beyond the requisitioned food limits much to the chagrin of guests. 
 
 The commissionerate police said special teams will be formed to check drunk driving on Monday. "Though we will not take on helmetless bikers on Holi day, we will penalize drunk and rash drivers," Bhoi said. 
 
 In Puri, security arrangements are being chalked out for the safety of foreign tourists, who celebrate Holi with locals every year. "Though there has been no instance of any misconduct with any foreigner in the living memory, we do not want to leave anything to chance. Patrolling will be intensified on  , where foreigners stay in large numbers," SP (Puri)   said.
 
 "To prevent drowning incidents, we have asked hoteliers and lifeguards on the beach to keep a watch on swimmers. Tourists should take the assistance of lifeguards while bathing in the sea," Sarangi said. 
 
 
