JAIPUR:   High Court has disposed of petitions challenging the acquisition of land and award of compensation for the expansion of the Jaipur Airport at Sanganer by referring it back to the civil court.

 The single bench of Justice MN Bhandari’s order followed a petition by   and 20 other petitions challenging the acquisition and award of compensation. The petitioners also claimed that the authorities had not followed the Sections 4 and 6 of the land acquisition Act. 
 
 The court said the civil court would decide the quantum of compensation to be paid and those eligible to receive compensation.
 
 Besides, the lower court was called upon to decide whether the compensation would be based on the old land acquisition Act or the new one promulgated in 2013. The court said those who had made application for alternative land in lieu for the land acquired have no right to approach the civil court.
 
 The   (AAI) had acquired land for the expansion of the airport to facilitate the operation of bigger aircraft but some families have refused to part with the land claiming that the compensation and award was very insufficient. 
 
 Sources said that about 85% of the acquisition have been completed and only 15% remaining.
 
  lens on SMS payment 
 
  has taken suo motu cognizance of alleged irregularities in the hiring of computer personal by the SMS Hospital administration by favouring a particular firm.
 
 According to report, the hospital administration had made payment to a fake company for hiring computer personnel.
 
 As per the information, Ascent Computer Technology had obtained tenders for the supply of computer manpower for the hospital last year. After obtaining the tenders, Ascent floated another company in partnership with a politician and received reimbursement from the hospital.
 
 According to rules, contract to a new company could not be given without tenders. The Lokayukta said the hospital administration despite being aware of the irregularity continued to pay to the new company which is a dereliction of duty.
 
 
