PUNE: A major issue that   faces is the   into the college. 

 Students as well as teachers have expressed concerns about outsiders, who have easy access to the campus and are sometimes involved in skirmishes with the undergraduates. While the college has set up 80-odd   cameras, authorities seek further police patrolling in the area and trained security guards provided by the government.
 
 “The biggest problem the female students face is eve teasing. There are always groups of boys standing near the gate. The moment we pass, they rev their bikes or perform stunts. It is really irritating and it is intended to get one’s attention but there is no stopping them,” said a third year BSc student.
 
 The main gate of the college has two women security guards, who check students’ identity cards. However, it is not possible to check all identity cards. “Outsiders are easily able to loiter both inside and outside the campus. You will often find random people sitting on the parked bikes passing comments. Unlike other colleges, like   or SP College, our academic buildings aren’t situated deep inside the campus. Moreover, parking is allowed on the road outside. This makes it hard to legally question the hooligans,” said another first year student from the college.
 
 The students have also complained about small fights that have erupted between male students of the college and outsiders. “A lot of boys from the police lines and Wadarwadi come to our campus. They make noise and, if they’re questioned by any student, it turns into a scuffle. This happens quite often,” said a first year Arts student.
 
 Rajendra S Zunjarrao, principal of the college, said, “The main problem is that this is not a company that we can restrict entry of unautorised people. Some persons access the campus after saying they are coming to get admission. Some say they have work at the office. Even others state that they are searching for the best college to seek admission. If we start issuing passes to everyone without ID cards and start checking every ID card, then there will be a long queue that stretches all the way to the road.”
 
 Zunjarrao further added that it would be better if the government starts giving grants for the post of security guards. “Currently, we give money to an agency that employs the guards. They are not trained and they are paid quite little. They even work double shifts to earn more money but this only makes it harder for them to be effective. If the government makes security affordable to all colleges, it would make campuses much safer as the authorities would even train the guards. It would be good if the police starts additional patrolling in the area during college hours,” said Zunjarrao.
 
