Against the requirement of 2,500 traffic police personnel, only 750 are available to regulate the movement of over 12 lakh vehicles on the state capital roads. SP (traffic)   shares his views with TOI’s Piyush Kumar Tripathi on traffic management, alternative arrangements during the upcoming rehabilitation of   and parking problems in the city. Excerpts of the interview:

 
 In 2005, Patna had around 4.5 lakh vehicles and 950 personnel were required to manage the traffic. The number of vehicles increased to over 12 lakhs in 2016 and, accordingly, the required strength has increased to 2,500. But, we have only 750 personnel for the purpose. Moreover, we have very few sub-inspectors (not more than 20), who are authorized to take action against traffic rules violators. Thus, the existing workforce is heavily overburdened and we need more manpower for effective traffic management in the city.
 
 
 One pontoon bridge parallel to the Setu is already operational and we have been told that work has commenced on the second one. Besides, we have asked the road construction department to ensure lights on the pontoon bridges in order to allow vehicular movement during night. Besides, the state government intends to open the road of Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge in March for vehicular traffic over the Ganga.
 
 
 Not a single vehicle is towed away from the authorized space. People should understand that they should park their vehicles only within the yellow lines and not on white markings, which are for buses only. We have provided authorized parking spaces even in narrow lanes. Besides, we are soon going to put more signage to indicate the parking space.
 
 
 One-way traffic would be needed in future. In fact, in a report submitted in November last year, we have suggested to the authorities concerned to resume one-way traffic around Gandhi Maidan.
 
 
 
 We require either automatic number plate recognition system or public address system linked with the   cameras installed at the electronic traffic signals in the city. This would help us smoothly regulate traffic even with manpower shortage.
 
