NASHIK: The consumers should be judicious in choosing the products that they buy from the market, experts said here on Monday.

 Addressing a gathering on ‘sujan grahakatva’ (informed consumerism) during the six-day festival, Jeevan Utsav, Ajit Takke, secretary of  , said, “The consumers are at the risk of being flooded with products by market forces that actually are not required. They should go in for products that are not manufactured by rampantly exploiting the natural resources. The consumers should weigh products on three factors – economy, ecological effect, and social impact of the product.” 
 
 The festival was jointly organised by the Sarvoday Parivar, Marathi Vidnyan Parishad and the   Kendra.
 
 Takke said a section of the industries are bent upon mass production. “It is nothing but the sign of desire to ‘rule the markets’, which creates numerous problems for local businessmen, manufacturers and artisans. Such moves by the industries are having an adverse impact on the livelihood of the people involved in various trades as these trades are now being hijacked by the industries,” he said.
 
 Takke cautioned that many of the packed food items are loaded with preservatives. The ill effects of these preservatives are never explained to the consumers, he said.
 
 “These preservatives have harmful effects on the body and may even lead to cancer. But how many consumers make efforts to look at it?” Takke asked.
 
 An advocate of scientific lifestyle, Takke said that consumers should develop a social model which ensures that they get the basic requirements fulfilled by the local artisans. “They can tie up with farmers to get fresh and organic produce for consumption. This will contribute to sustainable development of the constituents of the society.”
 
 “The modern day consumerism model is based on building social prestige and social image. Instead, consumers should weigh humanity, and the social and environmental effects while buying goods. This will contribute largely to all-round development of society,” Takke said.
 
