Noida: A delegation of   of Noida Extension on Saturday met Alok Sinha, chairperson of  , who is also state principal secretary, industries, and sought his action against delayed occupancy of apartments.

 Members of the Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (Nefowa) urged Sinha to stop builders from offering possession to buyers without the mandatory completion certificates. The delegation also apprised Sinha of the problems being faced by homeowners who have taken possession of residential units without the compulsory completion and occupancy certificates. “Until the builders procure completion certificates, the possession of the apartment is illegal,” said Abhishek Kumar, of  .
 
 “We have urged buyers not to take possession of houses without completions certificates, but some buyers have already taken possession,” he told Sinha.
 
 Under the provisions of the Noida and   building bylaws as well as that of the UP Apartment Act 2010, no builder can hand over possession of residential units unless the developer has acquired the requisite completion certificate from the respective Authority. 
 
 “This is a violation of the building bylaws and the UP Apartment Act, which can invite strict action against the builder under these Acts,” he said.
 
 Sinha said that getting approvals was the builder’s responsibility. “If the group housing project does not have the approvals required for a completion certificate and residents are habiting the units, it could prove to be a safety hazard,” he said.
 
 Kumar told TOI that he also told Sinha that a call needs to be taken on the rate that would be charged for registration. “Most of us bought our homes in 2009-10. The circle   at that time were not so high. Since then the rates have been revised every year. When we register our property at the current rate, we will have to pay much more. We should be charged registry fees prevailing at the time of allotment,” he said. “The officer has agreed to look into the issue,” Kumar said.
 
 
