KOCHI: Ahead of launching   of Kochi Metro, the Kochi   Ltd (KMRL) will start service trials from   on Wednesday. The Metro agency has prepared a tentative schedule or time table for train operations. KMRL said as per the schedule the trains will stop at each station. The services will start at 6am and wind up operations by 9.30pm. 

 KMRL said that in the initial stage they will use four set of trains for conducting service trials, and would eventually scale up the number of trains. "On Wednesday KMRL will operate 142 trips. For commercial operations we require six set of trains. Already nine set of trains have arrived at Muttom yard," said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 The Metro agency said while the initial focus of service trial would be on rolling stock within a weeks' time they would incorporate ticketing systems. "After that we will create peak or rush hours and carry out testing," added the spokesperson.
 
 KMRL said that they have deployed enough staff required for the smooth functioning of operations control centre (OCC). The training and deployment of employees recruited through Kundumbasree has also been completed. The metro agency said that all aspects of metro operations would be tested during the service trials. "Except for commuters all other elements will be involved in the testing process," said the spokesperson.
 
 Meanwhile, officials with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said KMRL's crew would be operating service trails, and their job "would be limited to a supervisory role." Prior to this KMRL's crew was part of the speed trials and signal trials.
 
 According to DMRC there was no specific limit set on the time frame for conducting service trials. "KMRL can decide how long they have to conduct these trails. Service trials will help in the fine tuning of the entire metro system. While conducting service trials KMRL will get a clearer picture on the time taken by commuters to get down and get in the train. This will help in finalization of the train timings," said a  
 
 DMRC also said that experts from Alstom, the French company which has supplied the coaches and other technical systems would be present during the service trials. "Apart from their experts in signalling and traction, their representatives will be present along with DMRC staff at OCC," added the official.
 
 KMRL took the decision to conduct service trials once the commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) issued to start metro operations. As CMRS has made certain observations regarding rectifications regarding installation of security cameras and completion of installation of telecommunication systems, DMRC will have to take up these works and complete it immediately. DMRC will also have to submit a compliance report once the works are done. 
 
