PUNE: The  , in coordination with the Maharashtra government, would provide plots to the Indian Air Force for its administrative set-ups in lieu of the defence land for the expansion of the Lohegaon facility.

 A source in the Indian Air Force ( ) told TOI the state government would have to provide it some developed land in the city so that the Air Force assets developed on the land allotted to the Airports Authority of India ( ) could be shifted.
 
 The AAI is supposed to get an additional 16 acres of defence land for the expansion of the Lohegaon airport. Sources said the process of transferring the 15.84 acres of defence land announced for the airport was in a very advanced stage.
 
 A source in the defence said, “Our people will have to work and for that we need some space. Once the AAI and the Maharashtra government provide the developed land to the IAF and our infrastructure is shifted there, the said plot would be handed over to the AAI for the expansion of the airport. A specific time for the process cannot be given at this moment.”
 
 Sources said the IAF was giving land adjacent to the airport to the AAI. “The plot houses our offices and other infrastructure. If the AAI is given the land, the IAF’s infrastructure needs to be created again. The AAI will need land near the airport for its expansion but our infrastructure can be set up at a different place not too far from the facility,” another source said, adding that negotiations were on for the same. 
 
 The AAI and the Maharashtra government need to find a plot for the IAF and develop it with boundary walls and offices among other things. Once they finalize the plot and hand it over to the IAF, the Air Force will reciprocate. 
 
 After getting consent from defence minister   for transferring the land to Pune airport authorities in May last year, the Air Force Station (AFS), Pune, had constituted a Board of Officers to study the nitty-gritty of the case. The board had submitted its report to the   (DEO) a few months ago and had given its consent.
 
 The board’s report was submitted to Principal Directorate Defence Estates, Southern Command, for further procedure. Now, the directorate has asked the South Western Air Command (SWAC), Gandhinagar, under which the AFS, Pune, comes, to comment on the report. Once we get the SWAC comments, the final proposal would be sent to the ministry of defence, the source said.
 
 The expansion of the Pune airport involves many projects in addition to the construction of a new terminal building. There are doubts in some quarters if the existing facility would be used for civil flight movements after the new airport at Purandar becomes operational, but a source said the developments were making it more and more evident. “Pune should be ready for two airports in the coming time,” an official in the airport told TOI.
 
