NEW DELHI:   MP   is likely to fly   from Pune to Delhi on Monday - his first flight after the government directed all   to 
  on him last Friday.

 Gaikwad reportedly first booked the 7.40 am Pune-Delhi flight (AI 852) for Monday - the same one he had flown on March 23 when he had thrashed an AI staffer with his shoe 25 times and tried to throw him off the aircraft at Delhi airport. 
 
 But late on Sunday, he got the ticket converted to an open one, meaning it could be used to board any flight.
 
 If he takes AI 852,   will find a welcome change: AI will, from Monday, deploy its latest   A-320 Neo, with six business class seats.
 
 So he can fly in the comfort of business or J class. On March 23, 
  as he was upset at being seated in the economy class despite having a business seat. It was an all-economy aircraft.
 
 
 
 On March 23, Air India’s ‘winter schedule’ was in full swing, and hence, the airline had deployed an all-economy aircraft for AI 852. But in the current summer schedule, it is using a twinclass - business and economy - aircraft for this flight.
 
 The Shiv Sena had 
  that PM   is hosting on Monday night unless the flying ban imposed on Gaikwad was lifted.
 
 AI sources say they have not made any special arrangements for flying the VVIP. “For us, every passenger is a   and deserves the best possible treatment. Whoever chooses to fly us can expect best-in-class service and inflight treatment,” said an official. 
 
 However, employees across airlines are not too comfortable flying the MP “as he has not apologised for his behaviour to the staffer or the airline”.
 
 “For the first time airlines took a stand on an unruly passenger who can be a threat to everyone on board an aircraft. But the government gave in to the threats of Shiv Sena and directed all airlines to fly Gaikwad again,” said a private airline employee.
 
  
  at the way the aviation ministry meekly gave in to the strong arm tactics of Gaikwad - who continues to remain unrepentant for his behaviour.
 
 The ministry, on its part, is blaming Delhi Police for not acting on the three complaints filed against Gaikwad by AI and the staffer he beat up for criminal assault and illegally holding up an aircraft. “We will request the ministry to ensure safety of the flights Gaikwad takes and passengers and crew on them. 
 
 The government has allowed Gaikwad back on planes and should take responsibility for ensuring safety of everyone on the flights Gaikwad takes. We are all scared and other flyers won't be comfortable with him on their flights,” said a private airline official.
 
 
 
