HYDERABAD: With Telangana and   slated to complete three years of existence on June 2, the two Telugu states are staring at an even more complicated future with more than a dozen key issues still awaiting resolution.As per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, the deadline for the two states to resolve all contentious issues through talks is June 2, 2017. 

 The Act ruled that in the event of a failure to find a resolution to any of the issues, the Centre would take over and give its decision which will be binding on the two states.Though both the states have displayed some professionalism in resolving the issue of employees' division and sharing of power, issues like sharing of water, institutions, assets and liabilities distribution and division of High Court are making it impossible for them to move forward.
 
 Governor   chaired three meetings to iron out differences between the two states which resulted in partial success with an agreement having been reached on the division of only nine institutions out of the 142 listed under Schedule IX and X of the Reorganization Act. The sharing of electricity supply has been resolved by technology leading to both the states becoming near-surplus in the power supply position. The division of water remains contentious even as a crisis looms due to lack of water in two reservoirs of   and Srisailam to cater to the drinking water and irrigation needs of both the states.
 
 Apart from these, the prestigious   in New Delhi is still waiting for a suitable solution as both the states want the building for themselves because of its central location. Meanwhile, Telangana's demand from AP for handing over the Secretariat buildings that it vacated has not been considered by its counterpart forcing Telangana to look for an alternative site for its new Secretariat complex.
 
 Problems in division of teachers, police personnel and employees of the electricity department are still waiting to be solved along with secretariat buildings. To expedite the resolution of issues, Union home minister   has appointed A K Singh, an additional secretary in his ministry as the nodal officer for coordinating with AP and Telangana and the concerned central ministries for speedy implementation of the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. A team of officers led by AK Singh had visited Hyderabad on March 20 and held discussions with both the chief secretaries to resolve the pending issues.
 
