GREATER NOIDA: Four women, allegedly gang-raped in Jewar in the early hours of Thursday, stuck to the charge in their statement before a magistrate in   on Saturday, barely 24 hours after the district’s chief medical officer said their medical tests so far had yielded no evidence of  .

 The women were take to a court in Surajpur in the afternoon. The proceedings started at 2pm and ended at 6pm.
 
  The four women recorded their statements separately before an additional chief judicial magistrate. They told the magistrate they were raped in the fields and one of their relatives who resisted the criminals was shot dead.
 
 A 35-year-old woman, sister of the scrap dealer who was shot dead in Thursday’s ambush, later told TOI her sister was admitted to Bulandshahr hospital for delivery. “We were four women and four men travelling in an Eeco to the hospital. It was around 1.30am when we felt something striking the wheels of our van. All the male members got off car to check. They found the two right wheels punctured,” she said.
 
 She said her brother called the cab’s owner, Haneef, and informed him about the puncture. 
 
 He had called his younger brother and sought help. “We suspected someone had deliberately thrown some objects at the wheels of the car to deflate the tyres,” she said. Her son (16) and nephew (20) left for the spot on a bike, she added. But six armed men suddenly surrounded the family and took them into the fields, she said.
 
  “They took our cash and tied up the hands and legs of the men and forced them to lie on the ground. They also thrashed them. They snatched our dupattas and asked to remove our clothes. When we refused, they tried to strip us. When my brother protested, the criminals got furious and said he was spoiling their mood. One of them shot him. He died on the spot in front of our eyes,” she said.
 
 The men then took the four women further into the field and allegedly raped them.
 
  “After raping us, they told us to put on our clothes. They tied our hands and fled before the police arrived,” she said, adding she did not believe the medical report. 
 
 “The criminals held us captive at 1.30am. The police reached at 3.30am. We lost everything in these two hours. Had police reached on time, they could save us and our brother,” she said.
 
 The women also gave their statements to a team from the National Commission for Women.
 
