He is as realistic about his shortcomings as he is confident about his talent. While any non-dancer would have thought twice before matching steps with   on screen, he saw it as an opportunity to conquer his fear and insecurity. That’s   for you — a man who refuses to conform to norms, to give up on his dreams. In an exclusive chat with BT before the release of his next, ' ', he opens up about why he doesn’t want to be the flag-bearer of any particular kind of cinema, nepotism in the industry, and why superstars are necessary in Bollywood. Excerpts...

 
 
 I was apprehensive about matching steps with Tiger. He excels at dancing and I’m not even one per cent of that, but I gave this film a shot because it was a golden opportunity to fight my insecurities. I wanted to conquer my fear of dancing. Fortunately, I don’t have a ‘hero’ tag, so I can experiment. Having said that, an actor needs to know everything in today’s day and age. Also, I don’t wish to be the flag-bearer for a particular category of cinema, ki main artistic films se judaa hoon, main so-called realistic films hi karunga aur mera commercial films se koi naata nahin hai.
 
 
 
 Not exactly. Today, fraud films are being made in the name of realistic cinema. Some of them are so boring that their directors wouldn’t watch them again! I am very particular about the fact that even realistic films should appeal to everyone. The same applies to commercial cinema as well — picture wohi achchi hoti hai jismein har class ke aadmi ko engage karne ki quality hoti hai.
 
 
 
 No. You see, theatre actors have no issues with commercial films as they have dabbled in all forms of acting. I agree that in Mumbai, there are some theatre actors who say that they will support only certain type of cinema. Actually, it is all about leaning on an ideology when you don’t get work. Mujhe sirf do category ki films samajh mein aati hai; ek acchi aur ek buri, whether it is realistic, artistic or commercial, just like it is in the West. I just look at my role and my takeaway as an artiste. 
 
 
 
 The day I start worrying about box office, it will affect my instinct as an actor. I have never thought about it before, so why now? So many bad films make big money, while some great ones do not. An actor’s job is to act and leave the business aspect to the producer. 
 
 
 
 Not just star kids, even our superstars have changed a lot. Earlier, superstars would take stardom very seriously, but today’s stars are humble. The star kids are also approachable and they understand cinema well. They are more realistic both in terms of their personality and approach.
 
 
 
 As an actor, I have struggled in the industry. So, if my child wants to become an actor tomorrow, it’s only natural that I will help him. But that doesn’t mean ki woh mehnat na kare. Tiger is Jackie Shroff’s son alright, but we can’t overlook the hard work he puts in. It would have been his biggest mistake if he had thought, ‘Main toh   ka beta hoon, mujhe aaram se kaam mil jaayega.’ It is easy for star kids to get opportunities because of their parents’ goodwill, but that applies to every profession. It is also true that talented people from outside face problems while making inroads into the industry. By the time they get a chance to prove their talent, most of them are past their prime.
 
 
 
 Of course. The audience can’t be fooled anymore, as they are exposed to a lot of content on the internet and elsewhere. However, I believe that superstars are necessary. Their massive fan-following helps movies run and it’s with that money that we manage to make more films. Hollywood has taken over Europe because there are no superstars left there. So, until the time there are stars and superstars, our cinema will flourish. The day they are extinct, Hollywood films will grab our market. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs!) What can I say about that? I am happy, but also shocked. There was a time when people told me, ‘Bhai kyu jaa raha hai filmo mein? Shakal surat toh dekh le apni.’ And then, my mother would say, ‘Mard ki khoobsurti uske kaam se hoti hai.’ Today, if someone calls me hot, I know that it is because of my work and I take it seriously.
 
