NEW DELHI: Environment Pollution Control Authority rebuked oil refineries and Delhi Pollution Control Committee officials on Friday after it recently found widespread use of   and tyre oil in the capital’s industrial areas. The use of both these highly polluting fuels is prohibited since 1996. 

  chairman Bhure Lal asked how these fuels have been reaching Delhi. “I will show you a sample of furnace oil we collected during our inspection. Let’s see if you can smell it even for a minute,” Lal said. 
 
 EPCA had called an urgent meeting with DPCC, ministry of petroleum and natural gas (MoPNG) and oil refineries, following their surprise inspection of Wazirpur and SMA industrial areas in west Delhi. 
 
 “Tankers are freely roaming around with large sales of furnace and tyre oils. EPCA was told that these contained furnace oil that was sold by dealers in Punjabi Bagh. EPCA was also told by another dealer that any amount of FO could be made available from either Mathura, Panipat or Jamnagar refineries. It also learnt that tyre oil is being sold in large quantities in these industrial estates,” EPCA said in a letter.
 
 Lal asked the refineries to explain how companies were selling these prohibited oils. “There are several dealers in Punjabi Bagh, Palwal and Faridabad. They have told us they can supply tyre oil and furnace oil in Delhi without any issues,” he said. 
 
 Refineries maintained that their customers were not in Delhi. But they also said that the use of tyre oil was so widespread that it’s imported from Europe to meet the demand in India. 
 
 Another EPCA member said a tanker carrying tyre oil in Wazirpur had the name of a refinery on it. “How is this allowed? We need a foolproof plan to hold the refineries responsible,” he said. 
 
 The refineries said tankers were “illegally” supplying the oils. “We have bonafide customers outside Delhi. Even water tankers can carry fuel. There is no way to check,” said a representative. 
 
 The EPCA member shot back, asking what was preventing the company from taking action against such tankers. A Delhi Police officer said a criminal case could be registered against those selling such fuels. 
 
 DPCC officials acknowledged the lapse in monitoring. EPCA directed them to issue a statement and get industries to stop using these fuels immediately. A policy on how refineries could monitor sales would also be worked out in the next meeting on March 23. 
 
 
