CHANDIGARH: Hours after taking oath as Punjab's new chief minister, Capt Amarinder Singh carried out a mega reshuffle of 73 civil administration and police officials who had held key posts during the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP regime. This included 41 cops and 32 bureaucrats.

 Setting the new dispensation in place, the Punjab CM also shifted 18 deputy commissioners (DC), including those from Patiala, Bathinda -the bastion of Badals -as well all as those of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Deputy election officer Diprava Lakra has been posted as Bathinda DC. He also shunted out SSPs in 12 districts and brought a new police commissioner in Ludhiana, replacing the incum bent, Jatinder Aulakh, with Kunwar Vijay Partap. Aulakh was caught in a row last year due to SAD-Congress men clashing over an anti-drug campaign. Change in top levels of state bureaucracy came within minutes of change in power on Thursday. The first top bureaucrat to be replaced is the incumbent chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal, a 1982-batch IAS officer, who had earned Amarinder's displeasure in the middle of elections over alleged favours to SAD.
 
 Kaushal, however, oversaw Amarinder's swearingin ceremony before being sent as special chief secretary, Mahatama Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration. Kaushal's two-year junior and a 1984-batch officer, Karan Avtar Singh, was installed as the next chief secretary.
 
 The   has also brought Karan's batchmate N S Kalsi, who served as joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs (MHA) during UPA-2 regime, as the state's new home secretary .
 
 The home department is responsible for the transfer, postings and promotions of cops. He did not touch the key finance department and has allowed 1986-batch IAS Satish Chandra to continue with additional charge.
 
 Amarinder also shunted out former Punjab chief min ister Parkash Singh Badal's principal secretary and 1987batch IAS S K Sandhu to the low-key social security and development of women and child welfare department.
 
 Bucking the trend, a senior IAS officer has been made in-charge of the crucial excise and taxation that generates the maximum revenue for Punjab from sale of liquor (Rs 5,000 crore) as well VAT (Rs 15,000 crore). 1996batch officer Vivek Partap has replaced Varun Roojam of the 2004-batch.
 
 Amarinder also brought in ADGP Dinkar Gupta as the new intelligence chief.
 
 Gupta had held key posts during the Akali Dal regime with charges of traffic, security and law and order and the administration wing. He swaps posts with ADGP Gaurav Yadav.
 
 Gupta is also perceived to be the closest to DGP Suresh Arora, who has got a breather with an offer to continue from Amarinder despite his tenure being marked with failure to crack cases like assasination of RSS man V P Gangeja, Nirankari sect matriarch Mata Chand Kaur, recent killings of two Sirsa sect followers as well as no headway in Maur terror attack along with various gang wars.
 
