HYDERABAD:   was the first bowler to take 500 Test wickets and is famous for not `Mankading' last man   of Pakistan in a   match in 1987 which cost the West Indies a place in the semifinals. Here as the bowling coach of the   team, Walsh spoke at length on his experiences.

 Excerpts:
 
 
 
 We are very happy to come to India. It is a historic occasion. Obviously, India, being the No.1 team, will be a big challenge for us.We are up for it. Nothing is better than having a warmup game before a Test match.If we can play good cricket over those five days, it will be very interesting. India have everything to play for and we have nothing to lose. Hopefully, our guys will be relaxed and up for it.
 
 
 
 It is going to be challenging for the young fast bowlers. Depending on what kind of a track we get to bowl on, the adjustments will be made. I think this is good exposure and experience for them.
 
 
 
 I met them in the West Indies. They have a good steady pace attack. I have always been impressed with them. I think that they have done good work. They have been consistent. They seize situations pretty well. The MRF pace foundation has done a lot to create fast bowlers in India.That's paying off. With the academies in place, you will have fast bowlers. Couple of years ago I saw it in the ma king. I was expecting them to come through.
 
 
 
 We are playing against India so I try to not let our players think about batsmen. He is a special talent; a world-class cricketer.But if we start to think too much about him, we will lose focus on India.
 
 
 
 I have been trying to get them to work as hard as they can, think about the game and situation. I am happy with the progress and how receptive they are.
 
 
 
 I was impressed.They are a work in progress.This is another challenge.The experience that they gained there will help them here.
 
 
 
 
 He is very exciting. He has pace. He is explosive. On his day, he could be a captain's dream. These games will give him more experience. I am happy with the way he is working. He puts in everything for the team in the field.
 
 
 
 
 They are very impressive. Even those not here ­ Rubel Hossain and Mustafi zur Rahman ­ they were prepared to put in the work in New Zealand. They have gone back to the BCL to get match confidence. Guys who are here are prepared to put in all the work, all the time.
 
 
 
 It is a skill set. T20 cricket has exposed it a little bit. We have been discussing that we should work on different variations and shapes.
 
 
 
 
 Once you are in the game, catches are going to be dropped. I told them not to worry about it. Think about the next one.
 
 
