CHANDIGARH: The UT   department is planning to unveil its sports policy in July in a move that will bring top-grade sporting facilities to the city and help prevent migration of athletes to neighbouring Punjab,   and other states owing to lack of jobs, rewards and other provisions.

 TOI has learnt that the sports department has prepared a draft and it will be presented before a 10-member committee later this month.
 
 “Chandigarh will soon get its sports policy . We are intending to roll out the policy by July,“ Mahender Singh, joint director, sports department, told TOI.
 
 “Chandigarh players are winning medals at various levels but prefer to represent other states. In the absence of a sports policy , the system was unorganised. With the introduction of the policy , local players will be given more opportunities and exposure. It will also bring more transparency in the functioning of the department,“ he added.
 
 A source in the sports department told TOI that the draft has been prepared on the lines of Punjab and Haryana's sports policies.
 
 “We have given emphasis on quality infrastructure, including a synthetic athletics track and indoor sports facilities. The new sports policy will benefit meritorious sportspersons with job opportunities, cash prizes and other rewards,“ the source added.
 
 The sports policy , when implemented, will benefit players as well as coaches. City coaches have been demanding inter-departmental promotions since the formation of the UT sports council. The new policy will pave the way for inter-de partmental promotions.
 
 The 10-member committee will comprise UT adviser  , sports secretary  , sports department director Captain Karnail Singh, sports department joint director Mahender Singh, three eminent lawyers of the city and three representatives from   versity. The group will evaluate the draft and give their suggestions. The recommendations will be incorporated and a final approval will be given by the secretary sports and director sports department.
 
 The new policy will be added to the constitution of UT sports council and then followed by the sports department in future. The sports department currently follows the Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993.
 
 In 1997, the Union home ministry had instructed the Chandigarh administration to draft a sports policy.However, the authorities kept on dilly-dallying and failed to initiate the process despite repeated reminders.
 
