MYSURU: Thousands of devotees from various states thronged the ‘Dakshina Kashi’ in Nanjangud to take part in the famous Nanjangud Dodda Jathra Mahotsav here on Friday. 

 This year, due to byelections campaigning for Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly segment, many political leaders from Congress and BJP, who are camping in these two constituencies, also took part in the jathre. 
 
 The car festival commenced at 6.30am after deputy commissioner D Randeep gave his his nod to start the car festival. Chanting the name of Lord Srikanteshwara, the devotees pulled the ropes to set the chariots rolling. The cynosure of all eyes was the majestic main chariot Gauthama Ratha. At the Meena Lagna, the priest signalled the procession of the chariots to commence. As per the tradition,   carrying lord Srikanteshwara was the first to move, followed by chariots with the idols of Parvathi, Subramanya and Chandikeshwara. The five rathas were taken around the  , which is nearly 1.5km surrounding the temple. Panaka, buttermilk, sweets and food were served to the devotees. 
 
 Rain played spoilsport
 
 Due to overnight rain, one of the wheels of the nearly 100 tonne Gauthama Ratha got stuck in the mud near Gauri Ghatta Street. Later, with the help of two cranes and after nearly an hour, the ratha was lifted and then, it completed its journey. The chariot which was to reach the starting point at 8am, got delayed for nearly an hour and completed its journey at 9.30am. Later, Parvathi’s chariot also got stuck there, which was also lifted with the help of crane. Apart from this, the event concluded peacefully. 
 
 Venkatesh, additional deputy commissioner, Mysuru district, who is also the administrator of the temple, said, “The annual Dodda Jathre was held peacefully. We had made all necessary arrangements including security, makeshift health centre and toilet arrangements, changing rooms on the banks of the river Kabini and other necessary arrangements.”
 
 Insurance to staff members
 
 As a precautionary measure, for the first time, the Muzrai department insured 112 staffs who took part in the mahotsav.
 
 
