KUSHINAGAR: Jungle raj is not a rhetoric, it’s a reality in UP, said   for micro, small and medium enterprises   on a whirlwind tour of constituencies in the state that will poll in the last two phases. “Akhilesh has been boasting of UP 100 and 108 ambulance service but I have seen them being used by strongmen of the area as taxi,” alleged Kalraj.

 Be it the   brand of social engineering or the usual pattern, senior party leader and Union minister Kalraj Misra is the sole Brahmin face of the party in the assembly elections. Besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi and national BJP chief Amit Shah, Kalraj is one of the four leaders whose pictures appear on BJP’s main poster. BJP has fielded around 80 Brahmin candidates this time.
 
 Unfazed by the fact that he is nearing 75—age set by national leadership to retire leaders from Modi's cabinet—and amidst buzz that he would be relieved of his post of minister after UP assembly election, Misra is hopping from one place to another addressing rally after rally. 
 
 One of the most sought-after leaders, like UP BJP chief Keshav Maurya, Uma Bharti,   and Yogi Adityanath, Kalraj has so far addressed around 80 rallies ever since the election began in UP. It’s not only where Brahmin candidates are present but also at constituencies which have sizeable Brahmin presence to which Kalraj is being invited. 
 
 At Padrauna, the constituency where former leader of Opposition and senior BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya is contesting on BJP ticket, Kalraj exchanges greetings with the leaders, calling most of them by their names, as they welcome him when his helicopter lands adjacent to the rally ground at Kisan Inter College at Balsukhiya. The rally ground and helipad are so close that the crowd in the college gets divided with one group flocking to the helicopter—a rare sight in these parts—and rest waiting patiently for Kalraj to take centrestage.
 
 “He has been active in politics for four decades and has travelled across the entire state and has patronised many workers in almost all districts,” Sanjeev Singh, a local BJP worker tells TOI. Aware that Maurya was originally with the BSP, Kalraj tells TOI that they are good and capable leaders and have not only joined the BJP but have accepted even its ideology. 
 
 Addressing the crowd, Kalraj hits out at Akhilesh government for poor law and order situation and how he has been receiving phone calls from victims of their FIRs being not registered. Asking people to vote and support Maurya, who limps to the dais on a leg that got fractured during campaigning recently. Running away from the stage to the helipad, Kalraj murmurs “late ho gaya”, even as he tells TOI, “There is neither any dearth of candidates nor of leaders who could be projected as CM face”.
 
 On why contentious issues like Ram temple, closure of abattoirs and triple talaq are part of the manifesto, Kalraj said “Ram temple is not an election issue, it’s a national issue. Efforts are being made to reach consensus on the issue and with court decision expected soon, a solution would be reached amicably.” On why no Muslim candidates, he said tickets are decided by Parliamentary Board and keeping in mind their winnability. Kalraj named Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Shahnawaz Hussain as his representatives in UP but when reminded that Naqvi has been sent to Jharkand and Hussain is from Bihar, Kalraj is quick to quote the PM’s slogan “sabka saath, sabka vikas”.
 
 When asked to comment on Rajnath Singh’s statement that Muslims should have been given tickets and Uma Bharti's statement that Muslims would be taken care of after election, all Kalraj said was “Woh bade loge hain”. The helicopter lands next at another college ground in Kasya constituency where the party candidate us Rajnikant Tripathi . Kalraj is joined here by BJP secretary Santosh Singh and Kushinagar MP Rajesh Pandey. 
 
 On the dais, Kalraj hits out at UP cabinet minister Mohammad Azam Khan, who a day before had addressed a rally at the same venue. “I feel ashamed to prefix Azam Khan’s name with shriman and I am surprised what kind of ministers Akhilesh Yadav has. They spit venom and hurl abusive words at BJP leaders when such is the situation in the state that no one is safe,” said Kalraj, adding, “While family members are put behind bars for no fault of theirs, ministers like Azam Khan see political conspiracy in cases of rape.” He cites Amar Singh’s statement that terrorists were behind Muzaffarnagar riots. 
 
 Later, on way to Fazilnagar's Jaura Bazar Intermediate College, Kalraj said Akhilesh can compete with state leaders but not with the PM. “Elections are in favour of Modi’s good governance and UP BJP leadership Vs Akhilesh,” said Kalraj as he landed and was joind by former Uttarakhand chief minister Ramesh Pokhriya Nishank. 
 
 After addressing the rally, Kalraj flew off to Deoria to address another rally before calling it a day and getting busy with preparations for Prime Mnister Narendra Modi's rally on Wednesday. 
 
