VARANASI: Pramod Nigam (60), the secretary of Thela Patri Vyavasayi, was shot dead in busy Englishialine area under Sigra police station on Tuesday night. Angered over the killing and failure of police in nabbing the shooters, street vendors and petty shop owners of Englishialine and Cantonment railway station areas kept their   on Wednesday. 

 Nigam was associated with   and Bharatiya Janata Party and was playing active role in Clean India Mission. Police were clueless about the killers as well as the reason behind the killing.
 
 According to reports, Nigam, a native of Hukulganj area owned a shop of belt, eye optical and caps at Englishialine area. After closing his shop on Tuesday night he borrowed motorcycle of a neighbouring motor mechanic Pappu to leave his resident. He had travelled few meters only when two red jacket clad motorcycle-borne miscreants intercepted him and opened indiscriminate fire. The sound of firing led to chaos on the road. Taking advantage of the chaos the shooters fled. Locals rushed Nigam to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 Politicians, leaders of trader unions as well as street vendors and petty shop owners reached the incident site. District magistrate YR Mishra and SSP Nitin Tiwari also reached the site. During initial investigation local traders informed the police that few hours before the killing some youths were urinating near a shop in an inebriated state in Jawahar market which led to a scuffle between them and local traders. Nigam was also called to intervene into the matter. Police are suspecting this incident as one of the possible causes behind his killing.
 
 Nigam, had played active role in Ram Mandir movement of VHP and BJP. Presently he was actively participating in Clean India Mission and mobilizing street vendors and petty traders to contribute in this campaign. On Monday, he had ensured distribution of dustbins in Englishialine and Sarnath areas. 
 
 In   against the incident, the petty traders closed their shops on Wednesday. In view of huge participation of traders and supporters in Nigam’s funeral procession tight security arrangements were ensured. Sigra police claimed that the case would be worked out soon.
 
 
