LUCKNOW: An 18-year-old class XII   and his   when the scooter they were riding fell after colliding with the barricading put up for construction of   on  , early Thursday morning.

 The accident took place at 7:30am when Mohammad Ismail was on his way to school along with Mohammad Zain Khan (17) of class XI. The two were rushed to Vivekanand Hospital by school staff and some passersby where Ismail was declared dead. 
 
 Though no FIR was lodged by the families of the boys, Zain stated the accident took place when the metal barricading fell on the scooter. On the basis of preliminary probe, Lucknow   Rail Corporation denied the accident took place because of the barricading. 
 
 Pillars for metro are being constructed in the middle of the road opposite the Lucknow University. The site has been barricaded, allowing less space for vehicles to move on both sides of the road. 
 
 Son of M M Ashhar, a businessman of Hardoi, Ismail lived with his paternal uncle at Lalbagh in Lucknow. Zain, who lives in Lalbagh too, used to go to school along with Ismail on a scooter. 
 
 Zain Khan told TOI, “Ismail was driving and as we reached our school near gate number 2 of LU, a truck driving back from the construction site pushed the barricade and it fell on our scooter. Ismail lost balance and we both fell on the ground and I fell unconscious.”
 
 An eye-witness who resides near IT College, Ayush Yadav told TOI, “I was returning from Parivartan Chowk after a morning walk when I saw the Metro barricading fall and hit the mudguard of the scooter the two   boys were riding. I ran to their rescue and found both lying unconscious. I tried to call an ambulance but could not connect. Meanwhile, the school principal reached the spot and we took the boys to Vivekanand Hospital.”
 
 School principal Amar Bedi said, “Around 7.40pm, when students were gathering for morning assembly, security guards informed me about the accident. We took the boys to the hospital and informed their parents. Ismail was good in academics as well as sports and was a boarder till class X.”
 
 Vivekanand Polyclinic hospital superintendent Dr R N Rastogi said, “Two policemen, college principal and a teacher Mahesh Pandey brought Ismail to the hospital around 8am. The boy’s pulse was missing. He had suffered internal injuries and there was a bruise mark on his abdomen. CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) was performed for around half-an-hour but we could not resuscitate him and he was declared dead.”
 
 The doctor added, “We informed police at 8:50am and the family reached soon after too. The family took the body with them by noon after the formalities. Zain sustained minor head injury, for which he was given stitches on the scalp. There was a knee joint injury too and some abrasions and he was discharged after first aid.”
 
 Zain’s father Shahab Khan said, “As parents, we don’t want to lodge any police case, because no one can make up for the loss.” Ismail’s brothers Mohammad Usman and Mohammad Ibaad were also present at hospital. Hasanganj police inspector P K Jha said Ismail’s family members did not want post mortem of the body. The damaged scooter is in police custody.
 
 
