INDORE: Even though the wait at the   signal is over 100 seconds, several motorists never cease to jump signals and drive on wrong lanes. This has made the intersection one of the most accident prone zones in the city.

 Thousands of vehicles pass this area daily as it is also an entry-exit point of Indore. The vehicles also include heavy ones that go to Bhopal via the Bypass. 
 
 The square directly connects to Bypass road, Scheme Number 130, Mahalakshmi Nagar and Nipaniya among other areas. People often complain about the long wait at the signal as traffic remains heavy round the clock.
 
 Sometimes motorists do not stop at the red light and jump the signal especially during the mornings. They can be seen coming on the lane towards Vijay Nagar from the wrong direction.
 
 Traffic experts have stressed on decreasing the long wait at signals and the need for speed breakers at every lane before the intersection to slow down speeding vehicles at this intersection.
 
 “The square is one of the most well maintained and ideal intersections in the city. Ample space on the main lanes (of 80 ft width) and at turns helps in equal distribution of traffic at this junction,” said  , a traffic expert.
 
 He suggested that Issues like encroachment on service lanes, a well synchronised signal system and speed breakers before signals are some major issues at this square that need to be addressed.
 
 Since authorities have managed to close down three of the service lanes here, the fourth near ear   remains open and motorists are seen using it to cross the square.
 
 Encroachments and illegal parking spaces near Radisson Blu are other issues that have not been addressed so far. Both problems add to woes of commuters, forcing them to use the main road while putting their lives at risk. The service lanes that lead to   and   are also encroached upon by small passenger vehicles like cabs and auto rickshaws while some motorists are seen standing with their vehicles on service lanes.
 
 Part VI - Why has   become one of the most accident prone zones in the city?
 
 
