Actors like  ,   and   have all started out with theatre, where they got to   different characters and hone their craft of acting. It’s same case with shippie-turned-actor   who is performing the critically acclaimed play ' '. When asked about it, Ritvij brushes it off and says," I have only been doing theatre for 5 years and these are huge names. It would be a huge deal to even be mentioned in the same breath with these actors. But yes, Om Puri has been a huge influence in my life because he would seem to play his characters effortlessly.” 
Talking about the play 'Court Martial' and his character Captain  , Ritvij says, “I found that the character is very similar to what I perceive and wish that the world would be like. I have always imagined a world without borders where people are equal from within and not only without.”
 And how did he prepare for his role as an Army Captain? “I am a realistic actor. Realism is the essence of my performance. So , there is no need to draw any inspiration from other actors or personalities for me when i am playing my characters --- I just need to find a shade of myself in the role. To understand this character, it required me to spend a lot of time talking to my friends who are already in the Indian Army and spending weeks in various cantonments.” Besides that he elaborates, “I read a lot of books and did research on the concepts of socialism and capitalism because there lies the seed of thought behind the play. Also, I had to understand India’s role in bringing about the change from behind a predominantly caste based society to a democracy of the people, for the people.“
 
 Ritvij’s character Bikash Roy,is the protagonist of the play who is also the defending lawyer in this court room trial of a young army 
 . Talking about his character’s traits, Ritvij elaborates, “Bikash is a cool, composed, fearless and an extremely intelligent person and these traits allow him to attack the establishment and unravel the truth.”
 
 Interestingly, the play is also going to be made into a film where Ritvij will play the same role. He says, “I have been signed by Fool’s Paradise Studios to play the Lead character in there next Feature Film based on the same subject to be Directed by Mohneesh Kalyan. There are some rather interesting announcements to be made regarding the casting, so yes it’s quite an interesting time in my life!” 
 
 
