GURUGRAM: Following a protest by students of   in Sector 14,   (MDU) on Monday issued revised guidelines giving admission to students who have failed in half the number of exams in their first year.

 Earlier in the day, more than 150 students of Government Girls College protested against MDU, demanding an amendment of the rule that restricts admission of students in the second year if they failed in three of their six subjects.
 
 Carrying placards and shouting slogans, the students blocked MG Road outside the college for around an hour. The students staged an hourlong agitation, from 10.45am to noon, demanding admission in the second year. These students were later joined by students of two other government colleges —   and PG Government College in Sector 9. With commuters facing a long traffic jam, the police were called in to clear the road.
 
 The university, on Monday evening, released new guidelines assuring that students will be given admission from Tuesday onwards.
 
 Ranjana, a student, said, “First of all, the evaluation process of the university is not reliable. Many students have not cleared more than half the subjects in the first year. Now, they are being denied admission in the second year. These students should be given a chance.”
 
 “I scored 80% in Class 12. However, I couldn’t clear three subjects (out of six) in my first year of college. It doesn’t add up. This is not the first time that the evaluation process has been challenged. Every year, students protest against it,” said another student, requesting anonymity.
 
 The college principal assured the students of taking up their case with the university. The university later released a notification that rules have been amended. 
 
 “We have received an email from the university that the rules have been revised and now students will get admission from Tuesday onwards,” said Sushila Kumari, principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14.
 
 In 2014, Pinki Chauhan, a second-year student, set herself ablaze in protest against allegedly poor evaluation criteria of the university.
 
 
