AHMEDABAD: Leading hotels across the city are prepping up to cater to international delegates arriving for the   (AfDB) Group’s annual convention. Menus at their multi-cuisine restaurants have been spruced up to serve Gujarati delicacies such as khaman, khandvi, dhokla, fafda and handva, among others. 

 Hoteliers said they would serve authentic Gujarati dishes to the delegates, while some of them have even added dishes from the African cuisine in their menu, besides other dishes from the Indian and   cuisine.
 
 In fact, the hoteliers have interacted with the delegation, seeking specific food preferences so that the hotels can take care of their dietary requirements.
 
 “Since the delegates plan to stay in Ahmedabad, why not serve them with the local flavours and display the hospitality culture of our country. At the same time, we’d be importing a lot of meat including a variety of sausages and cold meat and even a variety of cheese to cater to the requirements of the international guests and make them available for a week,” said Tejus Jose, general manager, Novotel–Ahmedabad.
 
 Since most hotels serve guests from various countries on a regular basis, several of them already serve special international cuisine such as Japanese, Italian, Pan Asian and Swiss among others. Some of them, however, have decided to add African dishes to their menu for a week, specifically to cater to the guests. “Dishes such as peri peri chicken, African fried chicken, Nigerian lamb shank stew, sauteed pork and spinach, South African meat and vegetables, among others form the part of our menu. Our chefs have been interacting with the African guests for the past three months to try and understand local preferences and flavours,” said Aman Tandon, executive chef, Crowne Plaza–Ahmedabad.
 
 Despite prohibition, booze to flow
 
 While the prohibition policy is already in place in Gujarat, the recent ban on liquor permit shops operating within 500m from highways has led to shutting down of two permit liquor shops located in city-based hotels. “The AfDB customarily organizes gala nights wherein liquor is served to delegates. However, the same will not be organized due to prohibition,” said Sanjay Kaushik, general manager, InterContinental Hotels Group ( ), Crowne Plaza-Ahmedabad.
 
 Hotels have ensured that their guests are provided with cabs to travel to nearby liquor shops to purchase liquor. Some of them which have liquor permit shops have stocked up on high-end liquor. “We have stocked up on high-end brands of single malts such as Glenfiddich 15-year-old, Lagavulin 16-year-old, Jameson Irish whisky along with vintage wines such as   and Villa Maria and even champagnes such as Moet & Chandon and  , to ensure the guests have the required variety of liquor,” said Gaurav Apte, general manager, Courtyard Marriott, Ahmedabad. 
 
 
