NAGPUR: Till last month, the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) sought feedback through one of its unit regarding a draft it has prepared on learning outcomes for schoolchildren. Learning outcomes are assessment standards indicating the expected levels of learning that children should achieve for that class. 

 It has now been proposed to include learning outcomes in Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education ( ) Act, 2009. The NCERT unit, Central Institute of  , had kept the feedback window open till January 31.
 
 Since these rules will be applicable to all schools including government, aided and private schools, the impact is obviously going to be enormous. The draft covers learning outcomes for each class in Hindi, English and Urdu. The learning outcomes are expected to help teachers understand the learning levels of children in their respective classes individually as well as collectively.
 
 The draft outline suggests that learning outcomes should be the point of reference for conducting achievement surveys. “Hence, it is necessary that the defined Learning Outcomes are also shared with parents and community at large,” the document adds. 
 
 The draft stems from the  , and the Programme of Action, 1992, which emphasized that “Minimum Levels of Learning (MLL)” should be laid down and children’s learning should periodically be assessed to keep a track of their progress towards ensuring that “all children acquire at least the minimum levels of learning”. 
 
 These outcomes can be used as checkpoints to assess learning at different points of time. The learning outcomes developed by NCERT are the minimum levels of learning to facilitate the monitoring of students against expected benchmarks. 
 
 With constant feedback coming from surveys conducted by NGOs and other stakeholders regarding quality of education, the NCERT felt a need to take notice. The draft document says that reports of Joint Review Missions for   (SSA) in the past few years mentioned that the learning levels of children are not up to the desirable level in spite of all the efforts made by the states/UTs in terms of timely provision of teaching-learning and resource materials, teacher deployment and regular monitoring. 
 
 These report a decline in outcomes of reading ability as well as numerical/ mathematical ability which is a major concern at present. The draft also talks about learning outcomes for children with special needs. It says “learning difficulties mentioned need to be taken care of to help children with special education needs accomplish the identified learning outcomes under each curricular area. The accomplishment of learning outcomes by children with severe cognitive impairments (intellectually challenged) may be kept flexible, if need be”. 
 
