BENGALURU: Indian outsourcing companies are beset with rising demands from investors for a buyback of shares even as they grapple with slowing growth and the spectre of rising protectionism in the United States — their largest market.
 
  Inspired by the demand last November by hedge fund Elliott Management for an increase in share buybacks at  , both domestic and foreign institutional investors are seeking similar action from other information technology services companies, according to senior executives.
  
  “After the Elliott letter, we also got some questions about this, especially because the sector is not growing as fast as it was,” said Milind Kulkarni, chief financial officer at Tech Mahindra after the company’s third quarter results last week.
  
  “But this is something our board will have to take a decision on,” he said.
  
  The outsourcing industry has seen a steady dip in growth in recent times. The National Association of Software and Services Companies (Nasscom) has cut the industry’s growth target for fiscal 2017 to 8-10 per cent from 10-12 per cent for the same year.
  
  Companies such as Cognizant and Infosys have cut their growth targets while   has warned of slower growth. Analysts have also cut their price targets for IT stocks to factor in the tougher business environment.
  
  In his letter addressed to the Cognizant board and CEO Jesse Cohn, Elliott’s senior portfolio manager suggested that the IT services company should “immediately institute a long-term capital return program with a commitment to return 75 per cent of US free cash flow to shareholders.”
  
  
 
  For its part, Cognizant had said it was in discussions with Elliott but has not disclosed its response. The company is due to report earnings on Wednesday.
  
  These demands have opened a can of worms for Indian IT companies which are now besieged by similar requests from investors. Last year, Wipro
  announced its plan to buy back up to 40 million shares.
  
  “Given the current regulatory environment and investor feedback, apart from just dividends, we are also evaluating other options to enhance our focus on stakeholder value,” Jagannathan Chakravarthi Narasimhan, chief financial officer at Mindtree, said in a post-earnings conference call with analysts last month.
  
  In 2014, Infosys faced calls to institute a buyback, but it did not go through with the request.
  
  At that time, two of the company’s former chief financial officers,   and  , and current Infosys board member DN Prahlad wrote a letter to the company’s board asking them to begin a Rs 11,000-crore buyback.
  
  This time, however, it is a rare instance of several companies facing similar requests.
  
  “Many different investors sent me the link to the Cognizant letter. The idea is that if we have only single-digit growth, we should boost shareholder returns in other ways. Every company is facing similar requests and the calls are getting louder,” said a chief financial officer at a mid-tier IT services firm. He declined to be identified.
  
  
 
  Balakrishnan still believes that boosting shareholder value should be a key focus for Indian IT.
  
  “If you look over the last three years, IT shareholder returns have not been good. They need to start looking at ways to boost the returns and buybacks will help put a floor under the share price,” Balakrishnan told ET.
  
  He added that the companies should also give the investor a clear idea of how their transformation will play out. Infosys has said it aspires to reach $20 billion in revenue by 2020.
  
  Wipro’s aspiration is to reach $15 billion in revenue in the same time frame. To reach these targets, both companies would have to make large acquisitions, which have, so far, not materialised.
  
  
 
  Analysts point to global outsourcing companies such as Accenture, which has a strong buyback programme and has also spent over $1 billion on acquisitions.
  
  “What worries investors is that Indian IT companies are doing neither. There is too much cash on the balance sheet. Though Wipro has been more acquisitive and had a buyback programme last year,” an analyst with a Mumbai-based brokerage said.
  
  He declined to be identified. But buy backs, though more tax-efficient than dividends, come with drawbacks. “There are some restrictions associated with a share buyback.
  
  “For instance, the company cannot issue ESOPs for a period of six months after the buyback. Separately, if a company buys shares above their fair value, it is destroying value for the remaining shareholders,” said Sagar Rastogi, an analyst with  . Infosys, for instance, has been using stock options as a way to motivate high-performing staff.
