BHOPAL:   government’s interim ban on sand mining rivers across the state, except for Narmada will be lifted from Sunday.

 Government had on May 22 banned sand mining till September 30 and hoping to provide sand at cheap rates than open market and rein in the mining mafia.
 
 “During the ban state government seized mechanised mining equipment in all the rivers including Narmada. As the ban ends, mining in all rivers except Narmada, is likely to begin from October 1,” Manohar Lal Dubey, secretary and managing director, state mining corporation, told TOI.
 
 Chief minister   had stated that the ban on sand mining in Narmada will be in place until a government-appointed committee decides how much sand can be safely mined from the river without causing environmental damage to it.
 
 “We have appointed a committee headed by cabinet minister  . The committee has tied up with IIT Kharagpur which will recommend feasibility of sand mining. Till the time the committee submits its findings, there will be a complete ban on sand mining from river Narmada while mechanized mining will also remain banned in all other rivers,” Chouhan had said.
 
 The committee is likely to finalise the new ‘Sand Mining and Sale Policy 2017’ by the mid of October.
 
 “Presently, sand prices have soared from Rs 1,000 to 1,200 per cubic meter to Rs 3,500 to Rs 5,500 per cubic meter after the ban. For 10 cubic meters, the consumers are paying more than Rs 25,000 or upwards including royalty and transportation, which the government hopes to bring down to Rs 12,000 to Rs 13,000. A sum of Rs 1,250 will also have to be paid as royalty,” said officials in the mineral resources department.
 
 The government has decided to hand over sand mining rights to the gram panchayats, it was also stated that decision on the royalty would be taken by the panchayat itself. The panchayats will also engage transporters and labourers to extract sand from their own resources and a detailed feasibility report from the expert committee is awaited, said the officials. 
 
 With the lifting of ban, the mining department has cancelled the allotment of all 87 mining sites for a re-auction on the Narmada river basin. Similarly, 358 mines running in different river locations across the state would also be resold to new panchayat bodies, sources said.
 
