BHUBANESWAR: The   (BDA) has decided to relocate trees instead of felling them to make way for development work. As an experiment to kickstart the project, the BDA has relocated 450 trees by replanting them in several parks. 

 Though the trees were uprooted manually, soil required for the trees' survival was retained and plantation was carried out in a scientific way with horticulturalist experts monitoring the entire exercise. The operation was carried out at night so that the moisture content and freshness of trees could be retained. So far, all the replanted trees have survived.
 
 "In the future, for all projects that require felling of trees, this relocation process will be followed. Several projects will come up under the smart city mission, which will require space and subsequent clearing of trees," said a spokesperson of the BDA. 
 
 The trees had to be uprooted to create space for redevelopment of the railway station area and laying of underground cable. Among locations where the trees were relocated are   in Pokhariput, Buddhajayanti Park in Niladrivihar, Kharavel Nagar Park in Unit III and   Park. While some of these trees were uprooted in March and April, 25 trees were uprooted and planted recently.
 
 "We started the relocation process in October, 2016, on a small scale near the Master Canteen. Given the success of the first phase replantation, we have decided to carry out the relocation till the end of May," said the BDA's chief horticulturist N Dhar.
 
 The upcoming Smart Janpath project on the stretch between   and  , along with the street-scaping of   will require the uprooting of trees, Dhar added. 
 
 The BDA, which has been organising the weekly street festival Patha Utsav, has also been spreading awareness on the necessity for green cover in the city. Visitors to Patha Utsav are often gifted plant saplings. 
 
 The Odisha State Pollution Control Board (OSPCB) last year sent an advisory to the BDA to increase green cover in the city to check air pollution. It mentioned in its advisory that the city's ambient air pollution had exceeded the national ambient air quality between 2011 and 2015. 
 
