PUNE: Experts are divided on the   between   body in   when the Pune Municipal Corporation is drafting a ‘concrete’ plan to manage the city’s trash.

 The National Society for Clean Cities (NSCC) working with the corporation in garbage management does not want the civic body shrug its responsibility of collecting segregated garbage. “It is the responsibility of the PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) and the elected members to involve citizens in the entire process and make them segregate garbage at societies and homes. Citizens in many parts of the city, including Kalyaninagar, Koregaon Park, Kharadi and Boat Club areas, are segregating dry and wet garbage. While the PMC is taking away the dry garbage, citizens are using the wet garbage for composting. Here, there is no need of any third agency,” NSCC members stressed.
 
 The   Collection and Handling (SWaCH) — a cooperative of self-employed waste pickers — is working with the PMC to provide front-end waste management services to the citizens of Pune.
 
 New Delhi’s Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said it had always supported the SWaCH Pune model entirely managed by the informal sector, which covered almost 50% of the city and pushed for collection of segregated waste at source.
 
 The CSE’s waste management expert, Swati Singh, said, “The CSE supports the SWaCH model and the work the city is doing on solid waste management. We have always advocated for Pune’s model for waste management. There is no doubt from our side on the integrity of this model managed solely by 2,300 waste pickers, covering 50% of the city. This being the only model in the country run by informal sector, covering 5.4 lakh households, has all our support.”
 
 Experts consulting with the PMC on the garbage plan have, however, requested the civic body to not to mix poverty elevation programme with the city’s garbage management. “The urban community development programme must be kept separate from the garbage management, which must be done professionally and taxpayers’ money must not go waste,” they suggested.
 
