PATNA: Haunted by the memories of fire incidents in which at least 175 people were roasted alive and over 2,500 houses gutted, the Bihar government has asked the   (BSDMA) officials to pull up their socks for preventing such tragedies this summer.

 At a recent meeting chaired by CM  , the BSDMA was asked by the CM to chalk out a strategy focusing on prevention of fire incidents and communicate the same to district officials and mukhias so that they can educate people about the preventive measures.
 
 BSDMA vice-chairman Vyasji said on Thursday they have identified the districts which reported several incidents of fire. “We will soon hold a meeting with the district officials and discuss the action plan,” he said.
 
 Vyasji said the CM asked them to rope in the education department as well for spreading the dos and dont’s through schools and colleges. Hospitals will also be alerted to keep their burn wards on standby.
 
 According to Vyasji, most of the fire incidents in   are caused by the burning of leftover crops in agricultural fields and by live ash left after cooking. “As of now, we are focusing on preventive methods. If need be, we will certainly lodge FIRs against those who burn leftover crops in the agricultural fields,” he said.
 
 Fire outbreaks in urban areas, especially slums, were also discussed. “We have done a study on the slum fire in   in which a pregnant woman lost life last year. We found a major cause behind fire in slums is illegal electricity connection by hooking wire to the poles. Also, most of the slums are in narrow streets where fire tenders cannot go,” Vyasji said, adding a meeting with the urban development department has been convened to discuss measures for addressing this issue.
 
 DM sounds alert to circle officers: Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has issued an advisory of sorts to all circle officers in the district, asking them to take measures to prevent fire incidents. Underlining the import of prevention, the DM’s letter on Wednesday says most of such tragedies can be averted if inflmmable items are kept off flames, cooking fire is extinguished properly after preparing meals and leftover plants and leaves in farmlands are not burned when winds are blowing. The COs have been asked to ensure counselling of villagers in this regard.
 
 
