VIJAYAWADA: Three months away from writing their annual examinations, students of municipal schools across the state received a rude jolt on Thursday with the government asking these institutions to switch over to English medium from Telugu immediately. Only Class X students have been spared from the ordeal.

 After the day-long high drama and backlash from students and teachers, the government made a tactical retreat by suspending the controversial government order to facilitate continuance of Telugu as a medium of instruction for the current academic year. “However, the government will go ahead by switching over to English medium from the next academic year,“ municipal ad ministration minister P Narayana said here on Thursday night.
 
 But what has angered the teaching community and parents is the thoughtless move of the government in imposing English as medium of instruction at the fag end of the academic calendar. With teachers and students threatening to launch an agitation, sources said the government is now mulling withdrawing the GO. A relook at the “illogical“ decision is expected in a day or two after senior officials bring the growing opposition to the issue to the notice of chief minister  , highly-placed sources said here on Thursday .
 
 In the GO (MS No 14, dated January 2, 2017), the government made it abundantly clear that the medium of instruction should be English in all municipal schools with immediate effect. “The government, after careful examination, has decided to convert all the existing   into   from Class 1to 10 irrespective of the student and teacher strength,“ principal secretary , municipal administration,   said while issuing the GO.
 
 Claiming that its experiment of introducing English medium in some schools had received overwhelming support from students, the government said the latest decision was `a well thought out move' to improve English speaking abilities among students. The government even appointed special officer   to oversee implementation of English medium in 2,138 municipal schools in 16 corporations and 71 municipalities.
 
