 society had sent actor a letter regarding alleged irregularities in construction of his tower.

 The conflict between   and   over construction work on his Pali Hill land is about to get uglier. Ten days after the society sent a letter to the actor asking him to stop the work, the latter has threatened to sue the society for defamation. This despite the fact that most of the Daffodils residents have come out in his support.
 
 The society, in its letter, had claimed that the actor had illegally got permits to build a tower on part of its land and also said that the vibrations from excavation work put their entire structure at  . Interestingly, most of the residents of the society, located at Nargis Dutt Road in Bandra, have come out in support of the actor and claimed that the letter was sent out without informing the society members and the residents.They have even urged the secretary and the chairman to send an apology to the actor.
 
  
  
 Despite this, Kapoor is in no mood to forgive the society and has decided to drag them to court. "I have already spoken to my lawyers and will be filing a defamation suit against the society for defaming me and doing character assassination," said the actor.
 
 Claiming 'mischief by someone in the society', Kapoor added, "I am a law-abiding citizen and went through the grind like others to obtain permissions. We are aware of a recent builder's interest in Daffodils. But these are conjectures until proven."
 
 Meanwhile, Daffodils residents have protested against the chairman and the secretary for sending out the letter without their consent. Moti Khanna, a resident of the society who was given the task of doing a survey of the society land, said, "All this was cleared long ago when Rishi Kapoor bought the bungalow. There were some issues and he had written twice to the society to sort out the issues. No one replied at the time. Then why is the society objecting now when he has started the construction? I myself had surveyed the land and he is using only that part of the land which rightfully belongs to him."
 
 Another resident Benny Jacob spoke up in favour of the actor and said that residents were not taken into confidence before sending Kapoor the letter. "This is not fair. We don't even know who sent the letter. But we do owe him an apology. We have absolutely no problem with the construction work being carried on in his land," he said.
 
  
  
  
  
 
