 
 

 The   Fort   incident that shocked the city on New Year’s Eve, seems hell bent on putting the trekking community in murky water this year. Two weeks after a group of trekkers (families at that) were stripped, beaten and traumatised by self-professed vigilantes (aka bhakts), the authorities seem to have decided that the only way to ensure no further incident, is to ban trekkers from entering forts post sunset. 
  
  
 
  But with some forts like Lohagad and Visapur coming under the jurisdiction of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), and others like   and Raigad coming under the protection of the  , it will be a while before uniform ground rules are set. For now – and this has always bene the case – entry to forts is allowed only between sunrise and sunset. But as many of you are aware, several forts in the state like Tikona and Torna, neither have check posts or security personnel to ensure that this rule is enforced. And interestingly, many trekkers are not even aware that they are not allowed to enter these forts at night 
 
  
 
  Besides beefing up the security at the Visapur Fort (which has three entrances), the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is brainstorming to come up with other safety measures. “We have deployed extra forces at Visapur after the December 31 incident. We are also in talk with seniors about other measures can be taken,” says Vitthal Badiger, superintending archaeologist. Adding to this, B Yelikar, conservator assistant at ASI, says they have also started maintaining a register at all three entries to the fort. “Our members even climb up and check for people loitering after sunset and ask them to leave,” he says. 
  
  
  
  
 
  Trek organisers like Satish Marathe of the Giridarshan Trekking Club, feel that besides having a local contact in the area, one should inform the nearest police station if they are trekking or camping at night. But keeping the police in the loop is hardly a solution when they are going to be miles away from you in times of emergency, especially given the complex jurisdiction structure. In the case of Visapur, for instance, the police have written to the ASI and are waiting for them to do the needful. Sandeep Yede Patil, assistant police inspector of Lonavla police station says, “We have requested the ASI to make safety arrangements at the Visapur Fort. They will take measures as per their norms.” 
  
  
 
  Now, as the season for night treks (February to April) approaches, trekkers will have to start changing their plans. And while some groups are in support of this night ban on fort treks, others are not confident that the authorities can control trekkers. Sunil Gujar, a member of Explorers, a city-based trekking group, says, “It is good that the ASI is restricting entry of visitors post sunset. If we are planning a trek to Visapur, it will only be before sunset.” On the contrary, Pinakin Karve, the driector of Trek'Di Adventures, asks a valid question, “There are several forts across the state. Will the authorities actually be able to ensure that no one treks or enters these forts after sunset?”
 
 - with inputs from Anup Satphale and Swasti Chatterjee
 Pics: Thinkstock
 
 
 
  
  
