Madurai: District collector K Veera Raghava Rao scrutinised the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme at   on Tuesday after workers alleged that they had not received   for six weeks. The district rural development agency of Madurai implementing NREGS has spearheaded a number of projects in the village including a massive tree plantation drive, waste segregation unit with vermi-compost shed and nursery for saplings. The department is also working on projects like Amma Park & Gym, green house and construction of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). 

 As the collector inspected these works during a press tour, the workers alleged before mediapersons that their wages for six weeks are pending. After it was brought to the notice of the collector, he scrutinised the muster, ledgers and fund transfer details. It was found that fund transfer order had been issued on July 4, 13 and 20 for workers in separate batches but had to be credited in the beneficiaries’ accounts. Officials were instructed to take it up with the bank correspondent and it was communicated to workers that the money would have been credited previous day or will happen in a couple of days. 
 
 Addressing mediapersons during the inspection, the collector said that the district rural development agency carried out schemes of individual benefits like providing employment to rural people. It also implemented schemes of community benefits like constructing toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission, house building under PMAY, state government’s solar powered green houses and THAI – II scheme where Amma parks, gyms, minor irrigation tanks and infrastructure projects are being carried out. 
 
 Under individual benefits of providing rural employment, desilting of water bodies, avenue plantation of trees, tank bund tree planting and roadside cleaning works are undertaken. There is also a government order to carry out NREGS works converging it with agriculture. Horticulture sector is best suited where the workforce is used to construct goat shelters, for planting and watering, Rao said. 
 
 Village Poverty Alleviation Committee buildings have been constructed in almost all 420 village panchayats except 32 where works were under way. The buildings are constructed at two variants of Rs 17 and Rs 14 lakh. While the material cost is provided, the labour contribution comes from workers of NREGS, he said. The collector was accompanied by revenue and DRDA officials during inspection.
 
 
