BENGALURU: Parents of pianist  , who allegedly jumped to his death from a 12th-floor flat in Bandra, Mumbai, on September 9, alleged foul play in their son's death.
They said he was neither under depression nor in financial distress, as is being reported in a section of the media.
 
 Karan, 29, jumped off the window ledge of the flat belonging to his friend Rishi Shah, an Indian-American publisher and media entrepreneur. Karan's friends have accused Shah of harassing and abusing Karan.
 
 "We need a fair probe into my son's death. I filed a complaint of murder against an unknown person, but cops registered a case of abetment to suicide," Dr   Joseph, a Bengaluru-based paediatrician, told reporters here.
 
 Dr Thomas and his wife Tina said their son was an active musician who had been living in Mumbai since March 2013. He was living in a rented apartment, off Dr Ambedkar Road in Khar.
 
 Karan had just finished his contract with Oscar-winning music director AR Rahman, Dr Thomas said, adding Shah wanted his son to sign a contract with him. Shah came to know Karan in early Au gust this year, after he saw him per forming at a show. He desperately wanted Karan to join him and sign an exclusive business contract with him. He contacted us and requested us to come over to Mumbai to discuss the contract. We went to Mumbai and believed that Shah had Karan's best interests at heart. Now we realize it was not so," Dr Thomas said.
 
 "Karan was clearly being coerced by Shah into signing a music contract that would have dissociated him from the rest of the music industry ," he alleged.
 
 According to Dr Thomas, Rishi Shah "enticed Karan with the offer to buy him one of the world's most expensive keyboards, The Prophet". Dr Thomas claimed that Karan deferred signing of the contract in a hurry, despite Shah forcing him to do so at the earliest. "We need to know why he was living in Rishi's flat when he had a rented apartment in Mumbai," he said.
 
 Urging police to "set aside motivated statements and independently investigate Karan's death", Dr Joseph, in an eight-page police statement, has laid bare several incriminating details pointing at the IndianAmerican Rishi at the "root" of the tragedy .
 
 He also said Karan was never treated for any kind of depression, and a search of Karan's flat failed to find any evidence of alcohol, drugs or medication. Karan's mother,  , was in tears for most part of the press conference. "We will pursue the investigation till we get justice for Karan and the truth is known. We will not hesitate to move court for a monitored investigation or a   probe," Dr Thomas said.
 
 
 
 Dr Thomas said Vidhi Shah, Rishi Shah's t business associate, had sent a WhatsApp message to Tina Joseph on September 11, saying the situation was getting out of hand i and they required help. This was followed by another WhatsApp message that threatened hem with dire consequences if help did not come. We have forwarded the message to Mumbai police inspector Prabhale, who is nvestigating the case," he said.
 
