CHANDIGARH: A government school in Sector 47 has experienced the strictness that banks have adopted following demonetisation. The school’s account used on a daily basis was frozen after the UT education department transferred Rs 3 lakh into its account for mid-day meal.

 Once the amount was transferred in last week of December, the school received a call from the bank. “We were told not to issue cheques or make any transactions,” shared principal Renu Puri. As per the telephonic conversation of the school authorities with the bank, it was for want of PAN card number since the amount was huge. “They asked us to give the PAN number. We told them that it was not an individual account, but school’s account and so we only had TAN number. Then they wanted us to fill form number 60.”
 
 The amount was huge because from next week the school along with six others, that have their own mid-day meal kitchens, had been asked to start delivering meals to nearby schools as well. The six others were Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 26, GMSSS, Sector 10, GMSSS, Sector 15, GMSSS, Sector 44, Government   (GMHS), Sector 38 and GMHS, Sector 42. Amount ranging from Rs 2.80 lakh to less than Rs 3 lakh was transferred into the accounts of these schools too, depending upon the additional number of students to be served mid-day meal from their kitchens. All school have accounts in different banks.
 
 Later, the principals approached the education department. “We discussed the issue and advised the principals not to fill any form given by the bank but give in writing on the schools’ letter head that it was a government account and the money was transferred for mid-day meal from the education department,” said deputy district education officer Sukhneer Sekhon.
 
 The account was released later but the entire process took almost a week.
 
 BOX
 
 Meal from school-based kitchen
 
 After feedback from schools that the food being served by mid-day meal kitchens made in government schools are better in quality and served on time, the UT education department has decided to cover more schools through school-based mid-day meal kitchens instead of getting it from private institutes. The move is to ensure better quality of food being served in mid-day meal to schoolchildren. “These are the only schools where meal intake is 100%,” said officials from the department. From next week, these seven schools will provide mid-day meal to two to three schools in the surrounding areas. So far, the schools without mid-day meal kitchens get their midday meal prepared from Shivalik View (a unit of CITCO), Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management, Sector 42, and Dr Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management. Around 10,000 students are served meal through seven mid-day meal kitchens while around 48,000-49,000 get their meals through private providers.
 
 Three kitchens awaited
 
 There are seven mid-day meal kitchens at present and the department is in process to start three more in government schools but is waiting for financial approval from ministry of human resource development. Three more schools which will soon get mid-day meal kitchens were Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 23, GMSSS, Sector 40 and Government Model High School, Sector 29. These too will be cluster-based kitchens and will serve mid-day meal kitchen to minimum of four to five schools of surrounding areas.
 
