KOLKATA: The death of a 65-year-old Basirhat resident, who was brought to   and Hospital on Wednesday, triggered a political slugfest between   and   for several hours on Thursday morning. 

 Nearly 300 alleged Trinamool supporters barricaded the hospital gates, stopping senior BJP leaders from entering the premises.
 
 According to hospital sources, the victim was brought to the hospital late on Wednesday with multiple stab wounds. He was declared dead on arrival. The Bashirhat police had accompanied his kin to the hospital. The body was kept in the hospital morgue for post-mortem. His 36-year-old son told reporters that his father had "no political links". On Wednesday afternoon, the victim - a shop owner - got trapped in a clash close to his Kakra home, family sources claimed. He was later found lying in a pool of blood. With Basirhat being under prohibitory orders, the family couldn't find any ambulance or support to move him to a hospital. They called Basirhat police for help.
 
 Since Thursday morning, Trinamool supporters started gathering at the hospital. They barricaded the main entrance and closed other entry points. Around noon, state BJP leaders Locket Chatterjee and Jayprakash Majumdar tried to enter the hospital. But they were stopped. Stones were allegedly thrown at their vehicle. Chatterjee claimed that police remained mute spectators. She also said the victim was a party-loyalist. Later, police sent reinforcements when their repeated pleas to the Trinamool supporters to step outside the hospital premises failed.
 
 Minister Firhad Hakim said, "The administration will do its work. I do not know who went there. If there is anything, the administration will take appropriate steps."
 
 Later, Trinamool leader Shantanu Sen - also the hospital's   chairperson - had a meeting with hospital principal Suddhadhan Batabyal. According to sources, three more persons - all Basirhat locals - are also being treated in the hospital. Two among them, sources said, are suffering from splinter wounds. Their condition is stated to be serious. It was learnt that after Thursday's incident, the hospital authorities have urged Nabanna to shift these patients elsewhere.
 
 Around 3pm, BJP's national secretary and Bengal minder   and state president Dilip Ghosh reached the hospital. Their cars were allegedly stopped by Trinamool supporters. Two BJP supporters were arrested as they tried to take on their rivals. Vijayvargiya left telling reporters that all he wanted was to condole the death of a party worker. Ghosh said: "The deceased was not only a dedicated party worker, but was the party's ward president. I had come to speak to his family and the hospital super. We wanted to complete the post-mortem and ensure that he gets a decent funeral. But the ruling party supporters, and their leaders, stopped us. The cops have even taken his son to police station." Ghosh left after two BJP workers held by police were released unconditionally. He said he would take the issue to Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi and the Centre.
 
 The victim's son was reportedly taken to Tala police station. He was there till late evening. Police said his presence was needed to complete formalities.
 
 
