PATNA: As the entire country is anxiously waiting for the announcements to be proposed in the   on February 1, womenfolk seem to be equally anxious. Homemakers too have high hopes and expectations attached to the upcoming budget. They are looking forward to more reliefs in day-to-day essentials.

 Demonetisation came as a bad omen for many, including homemakers, who had to reveal their hidden savings to their family and deposit the scrapped notes in the bank from their piggybanks concealed in kitchen wardrobe. However, women now want the government to give them their dues by reducing the prices of essential commodities, such as milk and its products, oil and other fast moving consumer goods.
 
 Suman Maheshwari, a resident of Exhibition Road, said she was expecting some relief for homemakers in the budget. “Prices of milk, bread, sugar and other important food items have skyrocketed and our saving has become negligible,” she said. Asked how much she managed to save in the current financial year, Maheshwari said, “Not even 10% of what I used to save five years back. With the small savings, homemakers like me purchase home appliances and gadgets.” She added that the government should make allocations for improving civic amenities besides giving a fillip to the education sector. Another homemaker, Mala Jha, echoed Maheshwari’s tone.
 
 Saumya Prasad, employee of a private firm at Nala Road, whose annual income is Rs 3.75 lakh, said the income tax slab should be increased to at least Rs 4 lakh. “In his speech after demonetisation, Union finance minister   had said that the move would give tax relief to the honest taxpayers. The salaried people are the most honest ones when it comes to paying tax. Now it his Jaitley’s turn to fulfil his promise,” Prasad added. 
 
 Since going to salon, spa and restaurant has become an expensive affair, majority of women, especially young ones, said they were expecting some relief in service tax. Alamganj resident  , 22, said she used to go to restaurants and salons frequently along with her friends, but such outings have become a costly affair now. “The government should give us some relief in service tax,” she added. 
 
