BHUBANESWAR: BJD Lok Sabha MP Baijayant Panda's assertion that the party has been taken over by corrupt elements seems to have had its desired effect. Beginning this Sunday, party president and chief minister   is going to hold interactions with leaders from different districts. 

 More importantly, the meetings won't be held at Naveen Niwas - his residence where he generally meets the party leaders - but at the BJD headquarters. The exercise is likely to go on for nearly a month.
 
 While it is too early to say whether it will be Naveen 2.0, but chances are the normally reticent   could open up a bit, a fact which has been a major grouse among his own party members. 
 
 Leaders including the party's district presidents, MPs, MLAs, block level representatives and newly elected panchayati raj institution (PRI) members are expected to attend the meetings with the chief minister. 
 
 On Sunday, leaders from Jajpur and Koraput districts are scheduled to meet Naveen while party functionaries from Puri district have been asked to turn up on April 5.
 
 "More than a review, it will be an interaction session between the newly elected PRI members with our party president. The state government has a number of schemes for the rural people. So the focus would be about effective implementation of these schemes. Besides, the chief minister may also give some advice to the PRI members," party spokesperson   said.
 
 Asked why Naveen has selected the party headquarters instead of his residence to hold the interactions, Satpathy said since more people would turn up for these sessions it was not possible to do so at his residence.
 
 It would be the first instance that Naveen, who is the founder president of the BJD, would hold such an interaction with grassroots level workers.
 
 The development comes in the wake of the somewhat poor performance (given BJD's standards) in the panchayat election, a minister complaining about bureaucratic interference on the floor of the House and two MPs fighting it out on social media. 
 
 Following the panchayat election, a number of leaders had expressed dissatisfaction as they could not meet the chief minister to convey their grievances. 
 
 "If you can't keep the flock together, there are chances a number of leaders may switch over to the BJP, which is emerging as a strong force. It is high time the chief minister changes his style of running the party," a senior party functionary said, requesting anonymity.
 
 He said though many leaders are reluctant to speak about it openly, they support Panda's view that the party has been hijacked by a section of the people with vested interests. 
 
