JAIPUR: The bench of the   (NGT) in Bhopal has asked Rajasthan government to look for another site where the proposed power substation in Korna village, Pachpadra tehsil, Barmer district, could be located. The court expressed concern that the 400 bighas proposed for the substation “comprises water bodies which are habitat of various species of birds including migratory birds, as is evident from the photographs on record.”

 The order also noted that the livelihood of people in the area is predominantly animal husbandry, cattle and sheep rearing, for which pasture land is necessary. The February 14 order, signed by Justice Dalip Singh and Satyawan Singh Garbyal, expert member, said dependence on pesticides too was much reduced in the area because of the availability of birds. “In our view, therefore, every effort should first be made to find an alternate site.”
 
 Villagers had long been opposing the proposal to set up a power substation in an area that sustained so much biodiversity. This land also forms an important water catchment area, feeding even Gangawas, the largest lake in the Jodhpur division. About 9,000 cattle from 24 neighbouring villages thrive because of pasture lands available here.
 
 Despite the stiff opposition by villagers, the administration seemed determined to go ahead with the power substation. Speaking at a ratri chaupal on January 7, district collector Sudhir Sharma urged the people to allow the project, claiming it was in the “national interest”.
 
 Yashovardhan Sharma, district coordinator of the Indian National Trust for Art and  , said, “This order represents huge relief for the village and for nature conservation. It is a pity that we so often have to get to the courts for such relief and can no longer depend on the sound judgment of those in authority. Villagers had been opposing the substation from the time they first got to know of it but their resistance was suppressed and authorities were determined to go ahead. That is why we needed to approach the court.”
 
 
