NEW DELHI: BJP is preparing to do business with   CM Edappadi   even as it feels that he will lead a fragile AIADMK government, with its driving force VK   in jail. 

 The numerical support for Palaniswami made it evident that the Sasikala faction had won and O   had overplayed his hand backed by advisors who underestimated the jailed leader’s control over AIADMK. 
 
 Though the new government may take a while to find its feet and it remains to be seen how far Sasikala will operate the levers of power through her nephews, reports that Panneerselvam could be hobnobbing with DMK and Congress had worried BJP. 
 
 BJP leaders felt such a situation would have been politically adverse and resulted in heightened political instability leading to early elections at some point in time. 
 
 This was not a scenario the party wanted to unfold. As things stand, BJP sources said just how Palaniswami would function and how Sasikala’s influence would play out was not clear. The jailed leader may well bide her time, moving cautiously in the wake of her failed power grab. If the Tamil Nadu government is able to regain a degree of equilibrium, BJP would look for the party’s support for the forthcoming presidential election and on legislative matters in  . 
 
 At present, Sasikala remains an unknown entity even as it is clear that her powers have been checked by her disqualification from electoral politics for a decade. Her legal status is unlikely to change as a curative petition can challenge the verdict but the prospects of getting the Supreme Court to reverse is verdict are dim. Officially, BJP said political developments in Tamil Nadu with Palaniswami taking over as chief minister were an internal matter of AIADMK and maintained it had no role to play and the party only wanted a stable government. “It is an internal matter of AIADMK. Whoever they want to select as chief minister of the state is their internal matter. BJP and the Centre have no role to play in this,” party spokesperson Shrikant Sharma said.
 
