GURUGRAM: Necessity is the mother of invention, and the truth of this saying was brought home over the past week or so. 

 The December 15   order, which greatly inconvenienced hotels, restaurants and bars when it came into effect on April 1, also forced the establishments into ingenious ways of sidestepping the 500m liquor ban rule, to make sure patrons could continue to enjoy their tipple.
 
 Learning from the experience of  , followed by   and  , two prominent hotels,   and  , located a few hundred metres from  , swiftly closed down their main entrance gates and are now using a service gate on Udyog Vihar Phase V road, at the backside of the buildings.
 
  Trident had already closed its gate last week and diverted entry of guests through Oberoi, although even this didn’t take them out of the 500m range. Now, Oberoi has also closed its main gate.
 
 Both hotels have chosen aesthetics over minimalism to make sure their original entry points are well hidden. 
 
 While approaching from Delhi and taking a right turn from Shankar Chowk, one comes across the two hotels, located adjacent to each other, hardly a few hundred metres away from NH-8. But this week, even regular visitors might have missed the gates of both hotels, thanks to a wonderful (and leafy) cover-up.
 
 Last week, Trident covered its main gate with a green tarpaulin sheet, while Oberoi’s gate remained open. On Wednesday, the main gates of both hotels were covered with a row of plants to help merge the gate with the boundary wall and surrounding landscape. Guards are stationed in front of the main gate, now covered, to guide guests towards the new gates.
 
 In a city where concrete tends to dominate tree cover, this is a novel way of increasing the green cover of the area.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, no hotel official could be reached. When contacted, DTCP officials said approved entry and exit points of a commercial building cannot be changed without necessary approval, because they are approved after considering traffic flow, safety and other aspects. 
 
 “In this case, we have not received any complaint so far. If we do receive a complaint, we’ll conduct a spot inspection and take necessary action,” said the official.
 
 
