PATNA: The steep power tariff hike announced by the   ( ) on Friday rocked both Houses of the state legislature on Saturday. While the BJP-led opposition demanded rollback of the hike, state energy minister   remained non-committal on the issue and said the subsidy earlier granted to the power distribution companies (discoms) would now be transferred to the consumers to lessen their burden following the increase in electricity rates.
 
  Giving the government’s reply to the adjournment notice of the BJP members in the state assembly, the minister said the low power tariff payable by the consumers so far was due to the subsidy granted by the government to the two discoms (North Bihar and South Bihar power distribution companies). Now, the government has taken a policy decision not to pay subsidy to the discoms.
  
  The minister said CM   would formally make the statement in the state assembly on the revised power tariff after assessing the rates in the neighbouring states. He also informed the assembly that at least a week was left for the revised power tariff to be in operation and, therefore, the state government would make the statement on the floor of the House in the “next two-three days”.
  
  The BERC revised the power tariff to the higher side for the next fiscal starting on April 1, raising immediate concerns as the average hike is 55% in all categories. However, the urban consumers would have to pay power tariff 70% to 90% more than the existing rates, if the government did not announce subsidy.
  
  Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Prem Kumar, demanded government’s statement just after the House met. Speaker   assured him it would be made at a proper time. Prem said the power tariff hike would hit farmers, urban consumers and also lead to price rise.
  
  Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi said free power should be given to farmers possessing up to 5 acres of land. CPI(ML) member Mahboob Alam also said the poor and farmers would be hit the most by the hike.
  
  In the legislative council, opposition members disrupted the House proceedings demanding rollback of power tariff hike. BJP members said the party would take up the issue to the people of the state. “Only upright people who pay their electricity bill would suffer the most as they have to bear the burden of Rs4,700 crore, which the government should actually give to the discoms as subsidy,” leader of opposition in the council, Sushil Kumar Modi, told media persons.
  
  He also said the CM’s announcement that subsidy would be credited in the bank account would not help the consumers because even after that, they would have to bear the burden of 28%, instead of average 55%, tariff hike.
