MYSURU: For nearly a week, chief minister   has been campaigning intensely in   and   assembly segments, where   are scheduled on Sunday. In an interview with TOI on Wednesday, the CM said that wins in both the constituencies would amount to an endorsement of his governance model. 

 Leaders of both parties have been trading barbs about leaders getting desperate and pitching camps in the two constituencies. While you’ve called   desperate, he said you were nervous…
 
 Yeddyurappa’s been here for the past 22 days, and I’ve been here only six days. I attended the assembly session before coming here to campaign. They’ve become desperate, which is why they’ve been making false allegations at our leaders and party. They know they’re going to lose the bypolls. We are seeking votes on the merits of our development plan, while Yeddyurappa is seeking support by telling people he wants to become the CM in 2018. Is this an issue in the bypolls? There’s one year to go before the Karnataka goes to polls.
 
 
 
 
 How else do you explain his strategy? He has been telling people they should vote for the BJP to help make him CM in 2018. It shows he is hankering for power.
 
 Former CM   said that your government had no vision, and felt you were an 11am to 7pm CM, unlike Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is dedicated to his job 24x7
 
 All right, I have no vision. What happened to his government? Krishna left his home constituency in Maddur, and contested from Chamarajapet in Bengaluru. Why did he change his constituency at the end of his five-year tenure? Why did 30 ministers lose the polls? Under his leadership, Congress was reduced from 140 to 60 MLAs. Krishna was critical of both Modi and BJP. He should recall that. Can Modi be compared to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru? Just because he’s quit the Congress, he mustn’t talk this way.
 
 
 
 It’s neither a loss to us, nor is it a gain for the BJP.
 
 
 
 
 Visit the constituency, and you’ll see what we have done there after Prasad quit. It’s wrong to suggest we didn’t have a candidate. There was PWD minister HC Mahadevappa’s son Sunil Bose. But I advised Mahadevappa against fielding him. We fielded Kalale Keshavamurthy, since the local leaders were rooting for him. But tell me, if the BJP’s Nanjangud candidate is from the RSS? I don’t want to talk about Mr Prasad.
 
 
 
 
 They are different instances. Back in 2006, I quit the JD(S), joined the Congress and contested the election. The JD(S)-BJP coalition united against me and fought that election. It’s not the case now. The issues are also very different. Development is our poll plank. I don’t want to make any personal remarks, or comment on Prasad’s claim on dalit pride. It’s a fight between communal BJP and secular Congress.
 
 
 
 
 It would be an endorsement of my governance and programmes. I’ll lead the party in 2018, contest the assembly polls to contain the communal BJP.
 
 
 
 
 The high command will decide on fielding him in the assembly polls. I won’t object if the people want him to contest. He is not keen about fighting the polls. If he gets a ticket, we’ll have to decide on fielding him at either Chamundeshwari or Varuna.
 
 
