NAGPUR: After prohibiting all activities at   through an interim order, the Nagpur bench of   has allowed the collector to permit a function to be organized by the   to felicitate Union minister for road, surface transport and harbour   on his 60th birthday, on May 27. 

 On April 27, a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and Atul Chandurkar had passed the order asking the district administration, led by collector Sachin Kurve, from granting permission to any event, including exhibitions, fairs, circuses, on the historic ground.
 
 The application for staging BJP’s event was moved by the collector’s office in the court. “Taking into the consideration, averments made in the application, we see no impediment in collector considering the grant of application,” a single-judge bench of justice Gavai said.
 
 The court has clarified that the event would be included in number of days provided under Section 37A of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act, 1966, for determining the maximum number of days for permitting such events in a calendar year. “Needless to state, the collector shall also ensure the conditions shall be imposed while granting permission that necessary measures would be taken for ensuring the heritage structure (chhatri in middle of ground) is not adversely affected,” the judge stated.
 
 Asked why only application regarding Gadkari’s birthday event was placed before the HC, government pleader Bharti Dangre clarified that there was no prohibition on any events by the court, but it has only issued directions to seek its permission.
 
 Kurve told TOI that he had received many applications before the court’s order of April 27 and all of them were forwarded to the court. “I did not seek permission from the HC just because the function is being organized in the minister’s honour. The BJP had submitted an application before me, so I took HC’s permission, as per its orders. In future too, we will seek HC’s nod if any one else wants to use the ground,” he said.
 
 Dangre, however, said that she has received application regarding only BJP’s event.
 
 In November 2016, Kurve had permitted a circus on the ground, overruling the order of then resident deputy collector. He had also ignored the ban on such activities imposed by his predecessors.
 
 Social activist Dinesh Naidu of NGO Parivartan, who too had filed a PIL on commercial exploitation of the ground, expressed surprise over HC’s order. “The court had taken   of misuse not even a month back. Subsequently, permissions of several organizers were cancelled and they incurred financial loss too,” he said.
 
