Brawls involving bouncers are nothing new in Gurgaon, but an incident that took place last week at   left three customers severely injured. The victims' post about it and the news has since been widely shared and talked about. And for Gurgaon, it is not just another post going viral, as it raises some serious questions about the city's nightlife scene. The biggest debate being, that even if customers are misbehaving, can the staff retaliate with brute force? While the victims claim that they were attacked by the bouncers without provocation, the pub management says that their sommelier was assaulted by the customers first, after which the bouncers stepped in to escort them out. Even though the management claims that there was no force used by their staff, an eye witness tells us a different version of the story. The victims, one of whom is an NRI, filed an FIR at the DLF II Police Station. The pub's manager and another staffer were arrested and later released on bail, while the police is still looking for the bouncers. A candlelight march was also planned in support of the victims.

  
    shared a CCTV footage on their FB page, allegedly showing the customers assaulting their staff
 
  
 According to a post by the victims' friend, the three victims – Rahul Laxman, who stays in the UK, Ishant Aggarwal and Sidharth reached the pub on Monday at around 10pm. When the bill came at 12.30am, there were some inconsistencies, because of which an argument started between the three customers and the manager. The post further adds that after paying the bill, when the three started to leave, they were stopped by the manager, and then attacked by the bouncers and other staff members. 
 
 "We were at the bar and arguments broke out between us and the bar manager over the bill. We were trying to resolve the issue, but suddenly the bouncers attacked us. They even beat us with baseball bats, which left me with a broken tooth. Ishant sustained a cut on his neck," Rahul said in his complaint.
 
  
  
 
 
  Asking if it takes "15+ people to 'restrain' 3 cooperating men," the post further says, "In a calculated move, one of the bouncers picked up the sharp broken shards of glass from the bottle and attacked my friend leaving him with a life threatening deep cut on his neck." According to the victims' version, they were then dragged outside the pub and beaten more, before they were able to call the police.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Sharing their side of the story, the restaurant management put up a post on Facebook on Thursday, along with a CCTV footage that allegedly shows the customers assaulting the sommelier first. The post says that the customers had consumed excessive alcohol and when they placed an order for more at 12.50, they were informed that they can't be served since the place was shutting for the night. On hearing this, the customers allegedly began misbehaving with the staff and attacked the sommelier. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The post adds, "At this point, the two bouncers intervened to escort the guests out... They continued to fight, abuse and threaten... Once outside the premises of the restaurant, the three picked fights with passers-by and were injured in the subsequent scuffle. It was our manager who called the police as soon as the guests were out of the restaurant."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
