THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Businessman turned politician,   was sworn in as minister in the   government on Saturday. State governor P Sathasivam administered the oath of office and oath of secrecy to the NCP leader and Kuttanad MLA at a ceremony held in the Raj Bhavan premises here. 

 Chandy has been inducted to the state cabinet following the resignation of NCP nominee A K Saseendran after a TV channel aired an audio clip of the minister allegedly having a lewd conversation with an unidentified woman. Chandy had hogged headlines earlier when he made claims for the ministerial birth, immediately after the NCP leadership named A K Saseendran as its nominee in the state cabinet. Chandy had said that there was an agreement that he would replace A K Saseendran once he completes two and a half years in office. However, such claims were ruled out by the NCP leaders themselves.
 
 Like his predecessor, Thomas Chandy has also been inducted to the cabinet as transport minister. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former transport minister A K Saseendran and water resources minister   were among those who attended the swearing in ceremony. 
 
 Those who were conspicuous by their absence were veteran CPM leader and administrative reforms commission chairman V S Achuthanandan and BJP and UDF leaders in the state. 
 
 Later, addressing a news conference Chandy told reporters that his priority would be to improve the state road transport corporation's financial health. "I don't agree with the arguments that the state road transport corporation should ply buses only on the basis of profit and loss. At certain places, the service may be financially unviable, but being a state-owned corporation committed to the public cause, the corporation should not shy away from its responsibility. At the same time, there should be strict measures to improve the financial position of the corporation," he said.
 
 Chandy said his responsibilities as a businessman would not be a hindrance for him to perform his duties as a minister. Chandy owns a chain of educational institutions in Gulf countries, especially in Kuwait. 
 
 
