NEW DELHI:  , captain of the   cricket team, has sought to play down comparisons between the upcoming one-off Test match against India in Hyderabad and his country’s inaugural Test match against India back in 2000. But despite his strong views of this not being a historic match, there is an air of uniqueness hovering this match starting February 9 because it is Bangladesh’s first Test in India, more than 16 years on from when they made their debut in the five-day format. 

 Why Bangladesh have not been invited to play a Test on Indian soil remains a matter of conjecture - financial value is the likeliest reason - but Mushfiqur is determined to change perceptions of his team and force the BCCI to invite his team more often. Bangladesh are coming off successive defeats in New Zealand, but assume a tougher cloak in Asia and did, after all, beat England in their last Test at home in October. Getting his players to produce that sort of cricket is paramount for Mushfiqur, especially given the nature of this one-off Test. 
 
 
 
 There is also the issue of Bangladesh’s form away from home. They last won an overseas Test in Zimbabwe in 2013, and overall have only won three of 44 away Tests, the other two being against a severely depleted West Indies in 2009. 
 
 India, the top ranked Test team, have gone 18 matches without defeat. At home, under Kohli, they have swept South Africa, New Zealand and England. They have Kohli, R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja as forces to reckon with, and other players capable of turning matches in a session. They intend to continue an unbeaten home season with victory here, and then against Australia who will land soon for four Tests. The odds are stacked against Bangladesh. 
 
 
 : Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium, Hyderabad
 
 
 : February 9, 2017
 
 
 : 09:30 IST
 
 
 : Warm conditions with a maximum temperature of 33 degrees
  
 
 
 
 
 
 :
 
 
 
 
 The changes to India’s XI from the last Test versus England are straightforward. With Ajinkya Rahane returning, Karun Nair will have to make way and Jayant Yadav will return, taking the place of the injured Amit Mishra. In Mohammed Shami’s continued absence, Bhuvneshwar Kumar should slot in alongside Umesh Yadav. Wriddhiman Saha takes over the gloves, having missed three Tests due to injury. 
 
 
 : 1 Murali Vijay, 2 KL Rahul, 3 Cheteshwar Pujara, 4   (capt), 5 Ajinkya Rahane, 6 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 7 R Ashwin, 8 Ravindra Jadeja, 9 Jayant Yadav, 10 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 Umesh Yadav
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With opener Imrul Kayes ruled out with a thigh injury sustained during the warm-up game against India A, Soumya Sarkar is likely to be promoted to pair Tamim Iqbal. Mushfiqur and Mominul Haque both missed Bangladesh’s most recent Test in New Zealand but are fit now, and will rightfully claim their places in the batting order. With Mustafizur Rahim dropped, chances are that Shafiul Islam will be one of the fast bowlers, with Taskin Ahmed the other. Bangladesh are likely to play three spinners in  , Mehedi Hasan and Taijul Islam. 
 
 
 : 1 Tamim Iqbal, 2 Soumya Sarkar, 3 Mominul Haque, 4 Mahmudullah, 5 Shakib Al Hasan, 6 Mushfiqur Rahim (capt/wk), 7 Sabbir Rahman, 8 Mehedi Hasan Miraz, 9 Taskin Ahmed, 10 Taijul Islam, 11 Shafiul Islam
 
 
 :
 
 "The better I do the more help the team gets. The importance of a player differs from team to team. I will be happy if I get to contribute for my team in the role I am in." - Shakib Al Hasan 
 
 “We’d like to look at it [this Test] as continuation from where we left off against England. Its been a good home season so far and we’d like to built on that because we have a few more Test matches after this.” - Anil Kumble 
 
 
