HYDERABAD: Earlier concentrated in the   of Bengaluru and Gurugram, microbreweries, which   within their premises, have officially landed in Hyderabad. 

 While around five microbreweries have already started operating in full swing, around three more are expected to rear their heads in the city, in the next three months, say industry insiders. Around 20 microbrewery licenses were issued by the excise department in July, 2016. The areas on their radar include the usually favoured locations along Hyderabad’s ‘hi-tech’ belt. 
 
 “The excise department had identified locations such as  , Banjara Hills and Hi-Tec City as the most preferred areas to set up microbreweries. Of these options, Jubilee Hills, which while being a prime high street location is not situated too far from the bustling IT hub, seemed most viable,” said Anoor Paripati, managing director of Zero40 Brewing, a brew pub located on Road number 10, Jubilee Hills, which opened its doors to patrons in the new year. “Hyderabad, until six months ago, did not have many venues that brewed their own beer. This has led to interest among patrons who are eager to try different kinds of beer,” he said. 
 
 Alongside new entrants trooping in, existing pubs and bars too have applied for microbrewery licenses. They too are seen adding ‘microbrewery plants’ and ‘Bright   tanks’ to their premises. ‘Brewmasters’ from other countries are also being roped in. 
 
 “We have installed around six bright beer tanks on the premises. These can be used to store and serve beer. In addition, we have also put in other equipment such as hot water kettle, a mash tun and a fermenter. All these function together as a microbrewery unit. We have also employed a brew master from Austria. While patrons from Hyderabad used to earlier settle for the bottled beer, now they are seen coming especially in search of freshly brewed beer,” said M Rehman, manager of projects and operations at Over The Moon, Jubilee Hills, which threw its microbrewery setup open to patrons less than four months ago. 
 
 Though these microbreweries have already started to rake in profits of 60 lakh to 80 lakh a week and are seen drawing huge crowds, even on weekdays, some patrons complain about the quality of beer being served. 
 
 “It is always best to wait a few months, after a microbrewery opens, to try to beer they brew. While freshly brewed beer is great, it takes about a month for the beer to mature. This concept is lost among the new microbreweries in town,” said Harshit Jain, a member of the Hyderabad Foodies group.
 
