With his first Hindi film, ' ', running in cinemas,  , a front-runner in Punjabi cinema, talks about his journey so far and the road ahead. Read on...

 
 Well, I learnt quite a bit from  , Deepak Dobriyal and Rajesh Sharma. From the word go, I knew that it would be a raw film, which would require a strong performance from me. Yes, I could have started off in Bollywood with a lead role too, but a lot depends on what suits you. I’ve turned down Hindi films even without a narration, but with 'Lucknow Central', I decided to hear the story. 
 
 
 Yes, but I debuted in Bollywood with this film because the story revolves around five people and each one has a space of his own. I play a Punjabi character and it worked for me because I am familiar with that zone. 
 
 
 No, I am looking at doing lead roles, but I am not hung up on them. I am even open to playing a villain, provided the role requires a powerful performance. Acting is what I love the most, though I have been a singer, producer and director. I signed 'Lucknow Central' on instinct. I’ll continue to follow the formula.
 
 
 Though I am satisfied with my work in 'Lucknow Central', I am yet to find out what the audience thinks. Now, I’m busy with my Punjabi film, ' ', and I also have another project that will soon be announced by  . I play the hero in it. The idea is that even if I do one Hindi film a year, it should be brilliant.
 
 
 I want to sing, but I don’t want to playback for others. I want to either bring out my own singles or sing in films that feature me. When you sing for others, people seldom get to know the singer. For example, no one on 'Lucknow Central’s' sets knew that I had sung 'Angreji Beat' with Honey Singh’s music and rap. Aise gaa ke mujhe kya faayda? I’d rather focus on acting. 
 
 
 Yes. 'Subedar  ' is releasing in April next year, but we’ve already planned its release calendar. I would advise my friends in Bollywood also to follow this practice. These pockets have a lot of patrons of Punjabi and Hindi cinema. 
 
 
