CHANDIGARH: State power minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Saturday found himself in the midst of yet another controversy after   (AAP) accused him of using his   for withdrawing the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) appeal pending against him in the  .

 “Gurjeet is pressurising PSPCL to either withdraw the petition from the Supreme Court, or accept the judgement of the appellate tribunal of electricity in Delhi passed in favour of his company,” alleged AAP chief party whip and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira.
 
 Gurjeet, however, dismissed the accusations, saying that Khaira was referring to a five-year-old sub judice matter and should wait for the Supreme Court to order a judgement in the case.
 
 “I have challenged him in the past and I am challenging him now to bring evidence against me. My family-owned company   has not committed any wrong and has only followed a legal course to get justice. We, like any other citizens of the country, have every right to seek legal recourse and remedies and we have precisely done that,” said Gurjeet.
 
 Gurjeet’s family-run firm Rana Sugars Limited had set up a 12 MW capacity co-generation power plant in 2001 to supply 10.2 MW power to PSPCL for 20 years at a base rate of Rs 3.01 per unit with an annual escalation clause of 5% up to the financial year 2004-05 and thereafter no escalation was permitted.
 
 However, Gurjeet’s company approached the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and sought re-determination of tariff for supply of power to PSPCL. While the Delhi-based appellate tribunal allowed appeal by Rana Sugars, the PSPCL moved Supreme Court in 2015. The matter has since been pending before the apex court.
 
 “I have now been conveyed by the top authorities of the PSPCL, that he is misusing his official position. The modus operandi adopted by the tainted minister in this case is similar to his gross misuse of position to grab costly mines through benami e-auctions and to acquire 142 kanal (71,000 sq yards) of deh shamlat (common village land) of Seonk village, despite stay issued by Punjab and Haryana high court,” Khaira alleged.
 
 Gurjeet hit back at Khaira, saying he is desperate to become the leader of the AAP legislature party in Punjab. “I really wonder whether he does anything else other than try to find faults about whatever I and my family do,” said Gurjeet.
 
