NEW DELHI: The series is alive, and how, following India’s stunning turnaround win in the second Test to tie the scores at 1-1 and set up a tasty third match of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. And yet, as with the first two matches, the talk is not so much about individual battles and skill sets - or even the injuries that have hit Australia in the last few days - but instead on what type of surface likes in wait at the JSCA International Stadium Complex, which hosts its first Test match from Thursday. 

 The pitch in Pune, on which India were shellacked by left-arm spinner Steve O’Keefe in a crushing 333-run defeat, received a ‘poor’ rating by the ICC. The Bangalore track for the second Test, in which India beat Australia inside three days, was deemed ‘below average’ on account of its variable bounce. What lies in wait for India and Australia, the No 1 and 2 teams in the ICC Test Championship, in Ranchi then? 
 
 The first proper visuals of the four strips at the JSCA Stadium showed dark patches all over on what looked like very black soil, as if was muddy almost. A few hours later, under the sun, things looked somewhat better as the patches had dried out but the strong clay content has heightened expectations of a the slowest track so far. Word from the venue is that the pitch curator SB Singh is fairly tight-lipped about the track to be used, and the lack of grass has also got sections of the Australia press murmuring of conspiracy theories. 
 
 
 
 
 Which team will be take advantage of the surface better, with an unassailable series lead up for grabs? That isn’t so easy to call yet. 
 
 
 JSCA International Stadium Complex, Ranchi
 
 
 March 16, 2017
 
 
 09:30 IST
 
 
 Pleasant with a maximum temperature of 29 degrees
  
 
 
 
 Having missed the Bangalore Test with another injury, opener Murali Vijay will slot back for his 50th Test, putting Abhinav Mukund back on the bench. Vijay averages 55.90 versus Australia and his return solidifies the top order following Mukund’s failures on return to the side after nearly six years. Bowling-wise, there are no likely changes expected even given the surface’s possible requirement for an extra spinner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Murali Vijay, 2 KL Rahul, 3 Cheteshwar Pujara, 4   (capt), 5 Ajinkya Rahane, 6 Karun Nair, 7 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 8 R Ashwin, 9 Ravindra Jadeja, 10 Ishant Sharma, 11 Umesh Yadav
  
 
 
 Australia will be compelled to make at least two changes now that the Mitchell’s, Starc and Marsh, will not play any further part in the series. The Victorian allrounder Marcus Stoinis was flown in to replace Marsh, and   for Starc. Should Cummins get the nod ahead of Jackson Bird - already a member of the touring squad - it will complete a much-awaited return to Tests for the 23-year-old fast bowler, whose last match was five years and four months ago. Since bursting onto the stage with a fine all-round performance against South Africa in November 2011, Cummins has been sidelined from Tests owing to a series of injuries and lengthy rehabilitation periods. Given Australia’s five-bowler preference, Cummins looks the likeliest to replace Starc. 
 
 
 
 
 The nature of the Ranchi pitch is the prime consideration for selection, and Australia’s need for a seam-bowling allrounder could be nullified on another spin-friendly track. Glenn Maxwell and Ashton Agar are also in the mix, so Stoinis may not be an automatic pick for a Test debut in Marsh’s place. 
 
 
 1 David Warner, 2 Matt Renshaw, 3 Shaun Marsh, 4 Steven Smith (capt), 5 Peter Hanscomb, 6 Glenn Maxwell/Marcus Stoinis/Ashton Agar, 7 Matthew Wade, 8 Pat Cummins, 9 Steve O’Keefe, 10 Josh Hazlewood, 11 Nathan Lyon 
 
 
 
 “If you are winning constantly and keep performing the way we have been performing at home that helps. That's been the hallmark. You can't point just one individual in the whole series that has given us these results.” - Anil Kumble
 
 “It feels like so much has happened in that five or six years (since his debut in 2011), but I think since that day, this is easily the most prepared that I’ve been for a Test match. In terms of body, form, the length that I’ve been playing the last few months.” - Pat Cummins
 
 
