PANAJI: The   has written to the   (AAI) and airlines to see if the number of   can be reduced at  , Dabolim. 

 The move comes following a few air incidents that occurred at Goa airport, which is a naval airbase.
 
 A meeting was held between airlines, AAI senior management and the Navy in Delhi to deliberate and explore the possibility of a reduction in flights, especially during the peak time. No decision has been taken and AAI officials have ruled out the possibility of a reduction in flights. Ironically, in November, AAI had requested the Navy to permit more time for civilian flights. A meeting was held on December 27 in Delhi to deliberate over both the issues.
 
 , where representatives of several airlines were present.
 
 Goa International airport has seen a 48% increase in passenger traffic since 2013. Air passenger traffic is likely to hit 9.4 million per year by 2035, as per present projections. The government recently awarded the bid to GMR Airports Ltd to build a new greenfield airport at Mopa that will cater to the projected growth in air traffic demand.
 
 “They have requested the airlines to explore the possibility to shift the flights that land in the afternoon. But it is not feasible and operations continue as per schedule,” airport director B. C. H. Negi said.
 
 Goa International airport is controlled by the Navy and is operated by the Airports Authority of India. The Navy at INS Hansa uses the airport for training and routine sorties, hence the airport is closed for commercial operations from 8.30am to 12.30pm.
 
 In 2015-16, Goa airport catered to 5.8 million passengers and the number is expected to hit 6.2 million by March 2017. According to AAI data, 80% of the passengers are domestic tourists.
 
 Speaking on condition of anonymity, an official said that one of the reasons why the Navy sought a reduction in flights was the recent air traffic incidents reported at Goa.
 
 “There is a shortage of space for parking and infrastructure has not kept pace with the  . The Navy has its flying requirements and recently there have been incidents and near misses. The Navy is only trying to see the possibility of the reduction in flights,” an official said.
 
 Dabolim airport authorities had requested the civil aviation ministry to ask the Navy to shift its flying sorties schedule so that commercial flights could be accommodated in the morning hours and thus, reduce the afternoon rush at Goa’s lone airport.
 
