NAGPUR: Citizens wanting to lodge complaint regarding defamation on social media or even of mobile theft would not have to run between police stations and   City police chief   is set to open a ‘cyber complaint cell’ at crime branch where they could lodge their grievances. 

 Mumbai already has a separate police station for cyber crimes at Bandra-Kurla complex. In view of rising cyber crime complaints, Venkatesh has now decided to turn the cyber crime cell into a multi-functional unit with the new responsibility of receiving complaints, probing into them and later co-ordinating with respective police stations to ensure case is registered. Earlier, the cell used to only assist in the cases being probed by crime branch or registered at police stations. 
 
 Cyber cell was not receiving any complaint directly but now receipts would be issued to the complainants. Around 45 cyber cells in the state, including that of city and rural police, were upgraded with modern facilities and technologies on August 15 last year through an unprecedented effort by the Maharashtra government. The units received modern software for cyber forensics too. 
 
 CP Venkatesh said he had come across cases of citizens having cyber crime complaints having to shuttle between police station and cyber cell just to register the complaints. “The centralized place for receiving complaints for cyber crimes was a foremost requirement. We are now empowering the unit to investigate cases that would be registered at specific police station under their supervision just like by Economic Offence Wing (EOW) in the crime branch,” said the top cop. 
 
 “We are ready to formally commission the unit. Additional manpower would be deployed. Already the post of ACP cyber crime and DCP EOW under which the unit would be functioning have been filled. Some more officers can join later,” Venkatesh said. “The citizens would also come to know about the status of his or her complaint and stage at which the investigation has arrived,” said the top cop. 
 
 City police have started Bharosa cell for receiving grievances of women through ‘Bharosa cell’, Property cell for real estate related offences, Victim assistance cell to help the complainants and N-cops excellence as training unit. In another futuristic project, Venkatesh is also contemplating opening a centralized   system which would be first of its kind experiment in the nation. 
 
 
