Nagpur: Even as the tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in the state reopen from October 1 after monsoon break, carrying capacity of most visited Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur has been cut by 12 vehicles per day.

 Till last tourist season, the carrying capacity of   from six gates was 136 in both shifts but this norm was never followed. Considering discretionary quota of tourism officer, entry to VIP vehicles, four canters and a mini bus, the capacity went well beyond 170 vehicles per day. The overcrowding of park is evident from the   information available with TOI.
 
 The decision to reopen the park was taken late Tuesday evening after hectic discussions between principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) AK  , Tadoba field director  , APCCF (wildlife) N Rambabu and other wildlife wing officials.
 
 Even as all parks will reopen from October 1, Tadoba will be at the centre stage. Online bookings for Tadoba and other parks have been done from October 16. Now that the decision to reopen parks 15 days earlier has been taken, online bookings will be made available from October 1. However, while approving TATR’s Tiger Conservation Plan ( ), National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) now has fixed the carrying capacity at 122 vehicles from 6 gates. This includes four canters and a mini bus.
 
 According to Tadoba officials, now online bookings for 92 vehicles for both shifts will be done. This includes Mohurli (44), Kolara (24), Navegaon (10), Khutwanda (6), Zari (4) and Pangdi (4).
 
 According to official sources, apart from 92 vehicles, there will be entry to 12 VIP vehicles, 4 foreigners, 4 FDCM and 10 towards canters and mini buses. So the entire carrying capacity comes to 122 vehicles.
 
 “With a PIL being filed against excessive tourism in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, we will strictly follow the capacity rules,” said Tadoba officials on condition of anonymity.
 
 Misra said carrying capacity as per NTCA will be adhered too. “I find no reason why the parks should not be reopened from October 1, and why only from October 16. I agree that due to delayed rains some roads may be in bad condition but a decision to close these particular roads will be taken by the field directors and local officials,” said Misra.
 
 Misra added that even NTCA has asked to keep the parks closed for three months or in some states for five months. “When parks in neighbouring   are reopening from October 1, we also need to take a call,” he added.
 
 On the other hand, carrying capacity in Pench Tiger Reserve has not been curtailed but in   it has been brought down by 10 vehicles. According to Pench field director Rishikesh Ranjan, Pench carrying capacity has been put at 246 vehicles from six gates — Sillari, Kolitmara, Chorbahuli, Khubala, Khursapar and Surewani.
 
 “In Bor Tiger Reserve, 40 vehicles (20 each shift) from Bor gate and 30 (15 each shift) from Adegaon gate will be allowed,” Ranjan said.
 
 On the other hand, Nagalwadi in the buffer of Pench, will reopen from October 16 owing to bad conditions of roads. According to publicity department, night safari, machan sittings and walking track facility is available at Nagalwadi.
 
