 alumnus  , who received a special mention in the National Awards announced in April for his role in the recently released  , calls it a divine intervention as the news came on the day his film released in India. The English Vinglish actor might be fairly active in  , but he says he prefers living in Delhi over Mumbai as the capital helps him stay away from the usual trappings of the film industry – the parties, the award functions and 'what are you wearing' questions. 

  
 He says, "I am comfortable in the city. My friends are in Delhi and I have studied in NSD, to which I am emotionally connected. And the house that I have in Delhi is located on the edge of Jahanpanah forest. Living here saves me from the paraphernalia of the industry – those award functions, parties and the 'what are you wearing' questions. I am not a model, don't ask me what I wear. Delhi helps me stay away from all that."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  He adds, "I came to this city 27 years ago and in all these years, it has changed a lot. But I am sure it is changing for the better. It has also changed infrastructure-wise, and now I see lots of awareness among people about environment issues; even children are more aware. My son comes to me and says, 'Papa, no crackers' and I am like, 'but I never burst crackers'. I have problems with noise, I am sure Sonu (Nigam) has the same problem (laughs)."
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Adil says he likes to read the Bhagavad Gita and the Mahabharata, and presently, he is reading the Gita to prep for a play on the battlefield conversation of Lord Krishna and Arjun. He says, "I don't even get 10% satisfaction from movies that I get in theatre. So I am returning to theatre and my next play is on the Gita where I am playing both Krishna and Arjun. I like to read the Gita, and I know about its philosophy more than most of my Hindu friends. It has the answers to all the 'why me' questions."
 
  So does he think the Gita should be part of school syllabus? He says, "You don't have to learn everything in school. Wisdom can be accessed. But since we have embraced the British form of education, wisdom part has been taken away, intelligence part is what we have. No country has the wisdom that we have in India. I think children should be made to understand how to look at life through these books."
 
  
  
 
 
  He adds, "The problem with the intelligentsia in India is that they have little regard for it. I don't want to give any controversial statement, but children should be helped in understanding life."
 
  
  Adil Hussain posed for us at NSD, his alma mater, and a place that he is emotionally connected to
 
 
  
 Adil says that films like Masaan or Mukti Bhawan are not typical Bollywood movies, but the reception they have received from the audience is welcoming. Talking about his experience of filming Mukti Bhawan, he says, "Having experienced my father's death and then doing this film – it was similar yet different. When I went to Manikarnika ghat during the shoot, I saw some corpses being washed away, some being burnt. All this makes you feel bizarre. But then you realise, this is where you have to come, or in my case, for being buried. What changed in me was the fortification of the belief that I had about death – it came to me intellectually during shooting Mukti Bhawan."
 
  
  
 
  
 Adil says that he had this understanding of death which helped him deal with the loss of his father. He says, "Before my father's death, around eight months ago, I had a chat with him about life and death. I had asked him, 'Are you ready to go?' And he had said, 'Yes, I think.' He was 93. I asked him, 'But do you think there is something for you up there?' And he said, 'Well, not sure – it's 50-50.' We both laughed. There was a similar conversation in Mukti Bhawan when the son asks his father, 'Would you like to be born in this family again?' And he says, 'I want to be born in Australia as a kangaroo, so that I can have pockets!'"
 
 
 
