BHUBANESWAR: Contrary to speculation, only a handful of   leaders attended a demonstration here on Tuesday in protest against Centre's demonetisation and arrest of party MPs Tapas Pal and   in connection with Rose Valley scam. 

 Not a single TMC minister turned up at the meeting near Master Canteen, though West Bengal education minister   had on August 8 visited Bhubaneswar to oversee the preparations. This was the first time TMC organised such a protest rally in Odisha, where the party has little presence. Absence of TMC legislator  , wife of Sudip also raised many eyebrows even as she had been camping in Bhubaneswar for the past three days. 
 
 "I cannot say why ministers and Nayna Bandyopadhyay did not attend. They might have been engaged in some official meetings. But our protest meeting was a big success. A number of TMC MLAs and supporters attended the demonstration," said TMCs Odisha convener Arya Gyanendra.
 
 Among those present in around 500 crowd were party's general secretary and parliamentarian Subrat Bakshi, MLAs Manas Bhuyan, Akhil Giri, Bikram Pradhan, Dinen Roy and Produt Ghosh. Since the arrest of Sudip on January 3, some TMC supporters have been holding protests outside CBI office and local court when he was produced. 
 
 Presence of writer Mayadhar Nayak, father of actor-turned BJD legislator Akash Das Nayak, in the rally raised eyebrows. Mayadhar, while flaying Modi 's demonetisation, said he attended the rally on his personal capacity. "I am not part of TMC," he said. 
 
 At the protest rally, TMC slammed Modi and alleged he used CBI to terrorise the party leaders. "Our chief minister and party chief   has been vehemently opposing demonetisation. A jittery Modi used the CBI tool to browbeat us. Pal and Bandyopadhyay have been falsely implicated in chit fund scam," said Bakshi. BJP denied the charges. It is strange that the TMC is shielding scam-tainted leaders. "We have information that the ruling BJD in Odisha supplied manpower to TMC rally. The flags were of TMC, but those carried them were sent by BJD," BJP state president Basant Panda told media persons.
 
 BJD refuted the allegations.
 
