HYDERABAD: In a first-of-itskind enterprise in India, the   irrigation department has decided to put a major canal on double duty by also using it as a   to tide over the lean months.

 The 130-km Sri Ram Sagar Project (SRSP) flood flow canal is now being readied to become a reservoir in its own right. This is in addition to performing its original purpose of carrying water from   to   and Lower Manair dams, when SRSP receives heavy inflows it cannot hold.
 
 The proposal involves transportation of one thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of water a day for 60 days a year from the link between Yellampalli and Mid Manair projects to the SRSP flood flow canal. To make this happen, three pump houses, that can lift water over three sections of the SRSP flood flow canal, will be installed. The project is expected to cost Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 “We have set ourselves a one-year target to complete this project,“ irrigation minister Harish Rao said, adding that the idea was borne out of multiple meetings that looked at ways and means to figure out how to combat drought in the area ser ved by SRSP. The year before last, the severe drought that gripped the area got the government thinking on how to prevent such a scenario from recurring.
 
 “SRSP is the largest independent reservoir in Telangana and the plan was to find a solution to keep it `live'. And when all the options were discussed, it was decided to use the SRSP flood flow canal as a reservoir,“ Harish Rao said. “By using the canal to sto re water, we can provide irrigation facilities to about one lakh acres along the canal through a system of sluices and filling tanks along the route,“ he said. “This will also recharge the ground water in the area. This is truly a project with multiple benefits,“ he added.
 
 When the SRSP is in flood, the canal is expected to serve its original purpose of taking the excess water using gravity to Mid-Manair for meeting the irrigation and drinking water needs of Adilabad,   and   districts.
 
 And during the lean months, water that is available round the year at  , will be then sent to Yellampalli and towards Mid-Manair link, from where it will be pumped in three stages and stored in the flood flow canal. In all, 14 lakh acres are expected to benefit once this new project is completed, including solving the drinking water needs of towns and villages that are served by SRSP and along the flood flow canal.
 
