BENGALURU: For 30 years, Asha K (name changed) has been teaching English at a reputable government college. Known for her interactive lessons, the professor faces a challenge now: A video camera will soon record her lecture for quality assessment, and her students may be consulted on how she should dress up for class.

 The department of higher education has issued a circular to government, aided and private unaided colleges to record a one-hour lecture of each faculty member. The videos have to be sent to the department for assessment by February 15. The objective is to evaluate the quality of teaching.
 
 In a second shocker for lecturers of the 400-odd government degree  , the department has asked principals to discuss dress codes for faculty members with students. According to a circular issued by the department, lecturers must follow a uniform dress code and wear an identity badge. The circulars have triggered a series of meetings, with professors of government first-grade colleges opposing the proposals. “What I wear is a personal choice. As teachers, we believe in decorum, and we attempt to live up to certain standards. This is a gross violation of our rights as teachers,“ said Vani G (name changed), a college principal.
 
 “More bizarre is we may be judged on how we connect with students. All days are not the same in a classroom filled with 100 students. With a video camera on, everyone will be conscious. The student-teacher dynamics will be hit hard,“ she added.
 
 The government first-grade college in Jayanagar started in 2007. After eight years, the five-room campus got its first toilet, that too only for girls. Devoid of amenities, the lecturers are shocked at the government's decision of investing in video cameras.
 
 “There is a chemistry between teachers and students in the classroom. It's not always about teaching the subject; it's also imparting values. Knowing heshe will be recorded, a teacher will come prepared to the class and teach in a structured manner,“ said a lecturer.
 
 On the dress code circular, a government first-grade college professor said, “Instead of focusing on concepts we are aware of, the department must look at   initiatives for students and teacher principal appointments. We needn't be told about decorum. The identity badges and uniforms are a ridiculous idea.“
 
 Karnataka State Government College Teachers' Association president   told TOI: “We are against the circulars. Government colleges follow tradition on dressing. Our teachers instill such values in students too.The fact we have to consult students on how we should dress is outrageous.“
 
 “At least 380 colleges don't have full-time principals. Is the department bothered? it should take stock of the problems our institutions are facing,“ Prakash added.
 
