There has been a rush among students as well as researchers to apply for  . It looks good on their resumes and colleges proudly advertise the number of patent applications their students and faculty have made. While the rigour involved in applying for a patent may help the student acquire a deeper grasp of the subject, many of the applications have little or no commercial value.Patent lawyers say students and researchers don't really prioritise commercial viability.

 In  , Anna University is trying to tackle this through its recently set up state-funded Centre for Research Facilities and Training. The centre aims to help students evolve solutions for industries and social needs and will be actively involved in commercialising patents with industry applicability. “This will ensure fewer patents remain on paper, and are put to better use,“ said M Kanthababu, director, Centre for   Rights, from Anna University . He added that institutions need to emphasise on research and development at the undergraduate level to inspire more need-based innovation.
 
 The Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) has been screening its patents as well. It recently set up a review mechanism which analyses the potential and viability of each patent filed across its 38 research bodies across the country . Girish Sahni, director general of CSIR, reported that nearly 150 patents had been fast-tracked in the past six months, after the rigorous review mechanism was brought in. “These patents will be used in major research projects over the next three years,“ he said. The mechanism is not only for scrutinising a patent but averting financial losses from patents that aren't commercialised.
 
 Electrical and electronics, chemical engineering and bio-technology are some of the fields that have the highest number of patent applications and so also account for the highest dormant patents. Experts say less than 4% of patents make it to the commercial market. The ministry of commerce and industry's annual `Intellectual Property of India' report (20142015) put the number of patents at 43,256 but working patents were as low as 7,900.
 
 “Patent for patent's sake,“ T C James, president of National Intellectual Property Organisation calls it. “Many innovations have no manufacturer. They exist because universities abroad prefer students and professors with licensed innovations to their name,“ he says.
 
 Experts say most of these patents are not industry applicable or commercially viable, but this is not checked by the examiners who grant them. The checks can come from universities which can quash dormant patents by conducting a feasibility report. Also the government IPR bodies need to hire examiners with technical expertise.
 
