AHMEDABAD: From where did the affected   in the city pick up bird flu infection? City crime branch, which is probing the appearance of bird flu in the state, has found that   of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh got 1,438 birds examined by a veterinary doctor in Allahabad. And the doctor issued a certificate that the birds were not infected by any disease. Sonkar is being questioned by the officials of the city crime branch.

 Sources in the police said that during preliminary questioning, Sonkar said that after getting the medical certificate from a local veterinary doctor, Sonkar left Allahabad on December 20, 2017, for Surat and Mumbai to sell the birds. “We will soon send a team to Allahabad to verify the details given by Sonkar,” said a police officer. 
 
 The cop further said that Sonkar had told the police that he comes with such birds once a year. 
 
 “On his way he had stopped at Vastral and brought the birds out of his mini-truck to feed them. However, volunteers of   rushed in as someone had called phoned them and took the birds with them,” said the police official.
 
 Following questioning of different people, cops suspect that seven similar birds were brought from Mumbai by Asha Foundation on December 28, 2016. These too were infected by bird flu virus when birds from Vastral came in contact with the infected birds, the police said. 
 
 Police also said that Sonkar had first contacted Vivekanand police station to lodge a complaint that his birds had been forcibly taken away. 
 
 Inspector   of Ramol police station said Sonkar was then sent to them. “We have made a station dairy entry and recorded his statement. Now the probe has been handed over to the city crime branch,” Solanki said.
 
 According to the station dairy entry, the guinea fowl were found abandoned near an open place near BPCL petrol pump in Vastral on January3, 2017. It is also mentioned in the entry that Harmesh Bhatt of Asha Foundation had taken the birds with him.
 
 Inspector Solanki said that later the birds were found to be infected with bird flu and culled. It is mentioned in the entry that they have to probe why these birds were dropped in Vastral and whether Sonkar was acting on someone’s directions.
 
 Incidentally, Sonkar did not leave Ahmedbad after the incident. He is currently staying at Vatva with Dinesh Tripathi who is also from Allahabad.
 
