MADURAI: The acute water shortage in Madurai city is a major threat to rural water sources, already at the verge of depletion. With reservoir levels rapidly declining, the city corporation convened a meeting with private water suppliers on Tuesday.

 During the drought-like situation between 2012 and 2014, hundreds of private water suppliers mushroomed in the city. They procured water from agricultural wells in the outskirts for a meagre sum of Rs100 to Rs150 for 1000 litres and sold it to city residents, charging anywhere between Rs600 and Rs900 for 1000 litres. Though the rain was abundant in 2015, it did not improve the water situation much and private suppliers continued to thrive.
 
 The rural areas are staring at a parched summer due to the indiscriminate exploitation of ground water. For instance, the ground water table at   was at 20ft in 2007 but has depleted to 500ft this year. As wells dry up, private suppliers are moving farther and farther looking for water sources. 
 
 For the poor farmers who are unable to cultivate their land, the sale of water is a source of income. Desperate for money, they sell their water at paltry rates. “One truck load of water could be used to irrigate 50 cents of farm land per day. Moreover, the water percolates back to the well, remaining in the water cycle. When the water is sold, it generally ends up in city sewers and agricultural wells dry over a period of time,” said R  , a progressive farmer in the district.
 
 Such indiscriminate exploitation of groundwater also threatens small local bodies like village panchayats which don’t have water schemes and depend on their own water sources like agricultural wells and tanks. “Most often, the corporation only looks at short-term measures like sinking of bore wells in village panchayats. It should be a give and take situation where village panchayats also benefit. It is not fair for big local bodies like the city corporation to exploit local water bodies in the villages,” said K C P  , former panchayat president of  . 
 
 Though it is essential for the drinking water needs of the city to be met, it should not be at the expense of rural areas. Who will monitor private water suppliers and corporation officials exploiting ground water in rural areas? With the local bodies dissolved at the end of their term last October, it is essential that rural residents take some measures to safeguard their water sources.
 
 
