NEW DELHI: Fearing for their lives, panic-stricken families of two men who were killed within an hour of each in 1999, have approached the  .

 Jitender, the man who killed both and was convicted, has been freed by Delhi high court for having spent nearly 17 years already. 
 
 Jitender first killed a man who deposed as a witness in a murder case against him. In a wedding venue, in plain sight, he pumped three bullets into Anil   and while fleeing also shot and wounded another person.
 
 In the next one hour, Jitender shot a senior citizen,  , whose son was an eyewitness to the murder at the wedding and was at a local police station recording his statement.
 
 Taking a serious view of the killings, the trial court awarded 30 year rigorous imprisonment for the first crime and imprisonment for life for the second offence, since two separate FIRs were registered against him.
 
 The prosecution had told court that Jitender was also involved in nine other cases and was declared as ‘bad character’ of the area. The trial court had then noted that by threatening and killing witnesses, the eyes and ears of a court were under attack and the stream of justice polluted. 
 
  The letter written by brother of Bhadana, and son of Nayyar said HC has not considered threat to the lives of different witnesses who had deposed against Jitender. The letter added that the HC’s order was liable to be challenged.
 
 While maintaining Jitender’s conviction, since he never challenged it, a bench of Justice G S Sistani and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal gave weightage to “mitigating” circumstances in his favour, like the fact that he lost his parents and was only getting support from his 60-year-old sister. Jitender also told court that his sister did not have the financial means to engage a proper lawyer. 
 
 Modifying the trial court’s sentence, the bench noted that an eye for an eye approach towards justice was not the hallmark of a civil society. And that mitigating circumstances need to be considered as well.
 
 HC concluded that “to meet the ends of justice, the cap of 30 years must be removed” and released Jitender on having already spent 17 years.
 
 
