RANCHI: The fifth edition of TEDx IIM Ranchi was organised on Sunday with the theme - 'Square Pegs in Round holes' - aimed at celebrating the achievements of those who had dared to break all the stereotypes to carve out a path of their own. 

 Spiritual leader  , the first speaker of the day, spoke about contribution to society by bringing in change by transforming oneself. He said people should learn to focus more on values than valuables.
 
 The second speaker of the day, Samina Bano, who has been a crusader for reforming the educational system in India, talked about the inequality of opportunities caused by socio-economic disparities. She shared stories of her struggle to bring in a change in the governmental system and the highly commercialised private education.
 
  Secretary of chief minister, Sunil Barnwal explained how innovative measures can help tap the potential of nations and individuals.
 
 Archana Sardana, the most prolific scuba diver and base jumper in India, inspired many by sharing her experiences of achievements and near death encounters in the post-lunch session.
 
 Aparna Saraogi, vice-president, Risk at Royal Bank of Scotland and co-founder of Women   and Empowerment Foundation (WEEF), spoke about redefining gender roles and emphasized on learning and personal growth. 
 
 Russell Collins, who made smokeless stoves for villagers , discussed how he turned the rocket stove into a piece of equipment which could be sold for less than one dollar. Similarly, Ignatius Orwin Noronha, MD of Leowin Solutions Pvt limited shared the experience of creating cost effective and efficient products. 
 
 Sarandeep Singh, a motivational speaker engaged the audience with his eloquence and sense of humour. An ex-employee of Facebook and Google in California, Sanjay Mucharla who now works for a social project Wisen spoke about the difference between 'making a life' and 'making a living.'
 
 Author and scriptwriter Mahendra Jhakar was the last speaker of the day. He discussed the importance of detoxifying the mind and thinking freely, to come up with new ideas and brought the inspiring event to a fitting end.
 
