Women may have made headway into the sanctum sanctorum of the   temple, but gender equality still has a long way to go in places of worship.

 As if to underline this fact, a small Shani temple, situated only a few metres away from the   temple, has been attracting a lot of attention for the last few days due to a board placed right below the idol, asking female devotees to seek blessings from a distance. The message has already ruffled some feathers, with   chief Trupti Desai giving the caretakers of the temple two days to remove the board, pending which she will stage an agitation at the site.
 
 The temple in question is situated outside the   in  . It has a basic foundation without any walls surrounding the single idol of lord Shani. It’s been there for the last four to five years, but, according to local residents, the caretaker put up the board only a few days ago, asking women not to get too close to the idol.
 
 Residents and devotees were perplexed by the sudden message. A female resident, requesting anonymity, told 
 , “We spotted the board only a few days ago. It is unusual as there was no such discrimination earlier and nobody had any objections if women went close to the idol. Placing such a board was completely unnecessary.”
 
 Most of the other residents echoed the fact that the board bears no relevance and seems to have come without context.
 
 Another female devotee told 
 , “I don’t think there was any need to put up such a board. There are some women devotees who voluntarily do not go close to the idol and offer prayers from a distance. But, the temple authorities are attracting nothing but controversy with this blatant message.”
 
 Hari Suryavanshi, caretaker of the temple, seemed nonplussed by the reactions the notice has provoked and more than a little shaken with all the attention. He refused to divulge any details of how the notice came to be, only repeating that it wasn’t meant as an insult.
 
 “A local resident had placed the idol and built the temple nearly five years ago. However, he moved away from the area and I have been looking after the temple ever since. The board wasn’t placed with the intent of insulting women. If people are objecting to it, we will remove the board immediately,” he said.
 
 Whatever the reasoning, if any, behind the notice, the road to equality is evidently still very long.
 
 Bhumata Brigade’s Desai, however, refused to mince words. “Such boards are nothing but an insult to women. Our agitation for gender equality is far from over. I have warned the temple authorities that if the board is not removed in two days, we will carry out a protest at the temple next week.”
 
 Desai’s Brigade had spearheaded the protest against gender discrimination at Shani Shingnapur, Ahmednagar, in 2015-16. The issue had flared up in November 2015 when a female devotee offered prayers at the sanctum sanctorum, prompting temple authorities to perform purification rituals. The Brigade’s impassioned protest forced trustees of the temple to take a historical decision and allow women devotees to enter the inner sanctum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
