PATNA: Chadrakeshwar Prasad alias  , whose three sons had been allegedly killed at the behest of former RJD MP Mohammad  , on Wednesday said it’s time for chief minister   to prove that he is not a “CM of circumstances”.

 After stepping out of Bhagalpur jail on September 10 following the bail granted by the Patna high court, Shahabuddin had mentioned Nitish as the “CM of circumstances” and not by people’s support. The statement had created uproar and irked his JD(U). Later, the  , on the state government’s appeal, had cancelled the bail granted to him by the Patna high court.
 
 Reacting to the Supreme Court verdict on his petition seeking transfer of Shahabuddin from Siwan in Bihar to Tihar jail in Delhi, Prasad said, “Nitish must ensure that his government takes fair steps in all the cases lodged against Shahabuddin in Bihar and does not crumble under the pressure of his alliance partner (RJD).” 
 
 Prasad, whose three sons had allegedly been killed at the behest of Shahabuddin, said every person in Siwan, including the witnesses against him in several cases, would be relieved by the Supreme Court’s decision to shift the former MP to Tihar jail. “Shahabuddin’s men in the government will definitely try to weaken the cases against him and no one else but only Nitish can ensure that it does not happen,” Prasad said.
 
 Slain Siwan journalist Rajdeo Ranjan’s widow Asha Ranjan, who was also a petitioner in the apex court seeking Shahabuddin’s transfer to Tihar jail, said, “Witnesses in my husband’s murder case will not be threatened any more.” Shahabuddin is also an accused in the Rajdeo murder case. Asha had been threatened twice over phone to withdraw her petitions filed against Shahabuddin to seek his transfer from   and the related case to Delhi for hearing.
 
 Shahabuddin and four others have been convicted for the murder of Prasad’s sons Satish Raj (25) and Girish Raj (20). Both had been kidnapped and later drenched in acid on August 16, 2004. Later, on June 16, 2015, Rajeev Roushan, who was the sole witness of his brothers’ murder, was also killed in Siwan just three days before he was to depose before a court. 
 
