Gurgaon: The struggle to vaccinate children in Muslim-majority Mewat continues. So far, footfall at session sites in Round 2 of  , which began on Monday and will run till May 22, is extremely low. It has therefore been decided that the drive in Mewat will be extended, while the health department tries to spread awareness about the issue. Health officials on Thursday met with local clerics and sought their help in the matter.

 According to a WHO report, only 13% of Mewat’s children are fully immunized. On March 3, rumours broke out that the state-level de-worming and supplement programme, which was running at the time, was in fact “a conspiracy to control Muslim population”. Worried parents stopped sending their children to schools. A few incidents of assault on education officers were also reported, following which, all   and supplement drives were suspended for a month in the district. 
 
 Later, when Round 1 of Mission Indradhanush, Phase 4 was conducted in April, around 72% children skipped availing the shots, as parents feared for their children’s fertility.
 
 The health department had set an ambitious target for Round 2 of Mission Indradhanush, Phase 4 — to vaccinate 27,589 children and 11,434 pregnant women. But with suspicion still rife, the department is now planning to extend the drive in Mewat by a couple of days, while health officials make more efforts to spread awareness about the programme and convince residents to let their children be vaccinated.
 
 Amit Jha, principal secretary (health) and Amneet P Kumar, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), held a meeting in Mewat on Wednesday, and conveyed the importance of immunization to local clerics and religious leaders, requesting them to spread awareness for the benefit of society and children.
 
 “Meticulous planning of vaccination sessions will be ensured by districts, as it’s the key component for efficient and effective execution of the immunization programme. Effective communication and social mobilisation is needed to generate demand for immunization in all districts. Civil surgeons should ensure intensive training is given to health officials for monitoring, and frontline workers for better coverage,” said Kumar.
 
 
