MEERUT: A day after BJP MLA from Thana  , who is the party’s candidate from the seat in the upcoming elections, said that curfew will be imposed in  , Deoband and Moradabad if he wins the polls, Shamli police booked him for allegedly promoting enmity between classes and circulating rumours to cause fear to the public. Kairana, Deoband and Moradabad are Muslim-dominated areas. A video of Rana’s speech had gone viral on social media.
 
  Ajay Pal, Shamli superintendent of police, said, “A case has been filed against Rana under section 125 (promoting enmity between classes in connection with election) of Representation of the People Act, and sections 505 (2) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and section 171 (g) (false statement in connection with an election) of the IPC.”
  
  Rana, also the UP BJP vice-president, is named in cases related to the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013. A video that went viral on social media shows him addressing a BJP booth sammelan in Thana Bhawan area of Shamli district, wherein he said, “Main haar gaya toh Deoband mei jashn manaya jayega ki Suresh Rana ka ilaaj kar diya. Aur yadi maidan maar liya to Kairana, Deoband, Moradabad mein curfew lag jayega mitro..ki Suresh Rana phir jeet ke aa gaya. Isliye keh raha hu ki March 11 ka din hoga…Bharat Mata ki Jai ka naara lagate hue Shamli se Thana Bhawan tak juloos niklega (If I lose in the polls, there will be celebration in Deoband that they have found a cure for Suresh Rana, but if I win the polls again, curfew will be imposed in Kairana, Deoband and Moradabad. That is why I am saying that on March 11 start a procession from Shamli to Thana Bhawan with slogans of  ).”
  
  The matter was brought to the cognizance of UP police by   leader   – also a lawyer – who filed a petition to Election Commission of India, National Commission for Minorities and UP police alleging hate speech against Muslims. While no case has been registered for hate speech against Rana, police said that they are investigating the matter.
  
  Pal said, “He did not say directly mention any community. And Deoband, Moradabad and Kairana have a heterogeneous population. But yes, by his statements he has tried to influence elections by giving a false statement and spreading a rumour to cause fear.”
