MADURAI: In an order that may throw the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test ( ) schedule for MBBS and BDS admissions off the track, the   on Wednesday stayed all further proceedings with regard to the examination held on May 7. 

 The interim order restrains the   from continuing with the evaluation of answer scripts, releasing answer key and result declaration. While answer keys were slated for release on May 31, results were to be out on June 8. 
 
 CBSE officials said they were “seeking legal opinion on the case”. 
 
 Justice M V Muralidharan granted the interim stay on Wednesday on a writ petition filed by T Sakthi Malarkodi of  , seeking to scrap NEET-2017 on the ground of discrimination. The judge issued notices to Union health and family welfare secretary, director-general of health services, MCI, CBSE and Tamil Nadu health and family welfare secretary, seeking replies by June 7. A students’ group had filed a writ petition, praying for nixing the test as there was no uniformity in question papers set in different languages.
 
 The CBSE had set the question papers in 10 languages. The petitioners — S Jonila, P Surya, P Siddharth, K Ajay Sharan, S Nitin Prakash Sivasubramanian, Gauthaman Shankar, J Aditya, D Richard Rishaban Das and M Naveen Kumar — said they were shocked when they found out that the question paper was not uniform for all states and all languages. 
 
 "Within Tamil Nadu, the question paper in Tamil was easy compared to the one in English. They urged the court to order the CBSE to conduct a fresh examination in a uniform manner after cancelling the May 7 test. “One India, one question paper is a must for NEET,” they said. 
 
 Writ petitions from some other students are pending before the principal seat of the court in Chennai. They said that had they known that Tamil questions would contain state board syllabus, they too would have opted take the exam in Tamil. Unless the interim stay order is vacated, the CBSE cannot continue the evaluation process and this would delay the declaration of results as scheduled, on June 8. 
 
 It will also have an impact on the commencement of counselling for MBBS/BDS courses in states, more so because admission for both government and management quota seats is to be done by the respective state governments. 
 
 The National Eligibilty-cum-Entrance Test became the sole criterion for medical and dental admissions throughout the country after a Supreme Court ruling in 2016. The examination is conducted by the CBSE on behalf of medical and dental councils. While the CBSE, on its website, said its role was limited to conducting the examination, MCI officials also said they had no role to play. “The CBSE is responsible for setting question papers, issuing hall tickets, setting up centres, conducting exams, evaluating them, and declaring results and merit list,” said MCI vice-president Dr C V Bhirmanandham.
 
