BENGALURU:   (prisons) D Roopa, who recently exposed alleged corrupt activities in jail, submitted her   (Prisons) HN Sathyanarayana Rao on Saturday.

 In the report, she has highlighted the state of affairs pertaining to maintenance of the central prison, and alleged that   of VIP treatment to AIADMK general secretary VK  , who is serving a sentence, appear to have gone missing, a police source said.
 
 Roopa told the media on Saturday that she had submitted a second report, but declined to divulge any details. 
 
 “There are only two CCTV cameras in the visitors’ gallery. Camera number 8 and 9 fitted near the admission room have no recording facility. Sasikala was given a separate room with chair and tables so she can conveniently talk to her visitors. We had recorded all these on camera but it looks like they are deleted now,” reads the report, a source said.
 
 Roopa has been in the spotlight after she pointed to speculation about jail officials, including her senior, DGP Sathyanarayana Rao, having received a bribe of Rs 2 crore to provide special treatment to Sasikala. She had exposed several lapses in the prison's administration, which were, however, denied by Rao and the jail officials.
 
 
 
 
 TOI accessed pages in the prison diary where Roopa, during her last couple of visits, made some remarks on the prison’s maintenance. The diary is usually placed at the prison entrance.
 
 
  June 28, 2017, Page No. 158: Visited first time after taking charge as DIG prisons. Visited barracks and undertrials, hospital and kitchen. Talked to undertrials under the age of 24-kept in barrack-2. Read through their daily routine and suggested that they should be allowed for playing instead of watching TV. School text books should be given to them so that they can read and write. Talked to convicts of Roopantara program and heard their grievances. Talked to convicts and undertrials at jail hospital. Visited admission room and prison entry. I suggested that there should be details and addresses of the prisoners and if possible, cross check the address. Went through statistics. Overall is hygiene and maintenance is good.
 
 
  Next visit dated July 10, 2017, Page No. 159: Visited prison barracks and spoke to undertrials and convicts. Talked to staff and instructed them to shift punishment prisoners from hospital premises and keep a check on ganja. I found three under trials without advocate. Give them legal aid.
 
 It may be recalled that chief minister Siddaramaiah ordered a high-level inquiry on Friday by retired IAS officer Vinay Kumar into the prison affairs. The committee will submit its preliminary findings in a week and the final report in a month. The CM also issued a notice to Roopa for going to the media with her report details.
 
