COIMBATORE:   diggers in the city have seen a sudden spike in their business with demand for digging new borewells going up by almost 100% in this summer season. The prevailing scarcity of water in the region has forced residents in the city to look for alternate ways to meet the daily demand. In the past one month alone, the work on digging up new borewells has doubled in the city. Many residences and buildings, particularly in R S   and  , have either dug fresh borewells or deepened existing wells. 

 From the time Siruvani went dry and water levels in other reservoirs depleted due to poor monsoon last year, people have been worrying about meeting the water demand during summer. With the summer season set in, residents do not want to take risk by waiting till the situation gets worse and take last-minute arrangements that might otherwise prove to be expensive. 
 
 A proprietor of a shopping complex at R S Puram decided to deepen the borewell in the building earlier this month. “We have shops and offices in the building. We cannot rely on the scarce supply of water from the civic body. So, we decided to deepen the borewell by 200 feet,” said the supervisor of the building, not willing to be named. It has, in fact, become a common sight to spot borewell being dug in Town Hall and R S Puram. Due to lack of space on roads, digging works are carried out in the night time, preferably after 10pm. 
 
 Owner of Sri Karthik Borewell P Sathyamoorthy said the number of orders that they get now has increased by 100%. “It is a common phenomenon to see enquiries for borewells increase every summer. But this year, it is unusually high because of the drought-like situation prevailing in the region,” he said. 
 
 “Nearly 50% of the orders that we get now are for new borewells and the remaining for deepening the existing ones,” said Sathyamoorthy.
 
 Borewell contractors usually get 15-20 orders per month during non-summer seasons. “This month, we got almost 40 orders,” said the manager of Sri Balaji Borewells, A Mohan Kumar. “On an average, we dig 400-450 feet in Town Hall and R S Puram, if it is a new borewell. If we are deepening it, then we dig about 100-200feet,” said Mohan Kumar. 
 
 The cost of digging a borewell depends on the area. “In R S  , we charge Rs45 per feet and after 150feet, we charge Rs 4,500 per hour. The cost is calculated based on the consumption of diesel to dig the borewell,” said Mohan Kumar. 
 
 Graphics 
 
 Availability of water in R S Puram and Town Hall- 150feet
 
 Depth of new borewell - 400-450feet
 
 Deepening of the existing borewell – 100-200feet
 
 Cost - Rs 45 per feet till 150feet. Rs 4,500 per hour beyond 150-feet
 
 No. of borewell contracts in non-summer seasons - 15-20 per month
 
 No. of borewell contracts in summer season - 35-40 per month 
 
 Average rainfall in city during summer - 130mm
 
 City to receive more than 130mm this year
 
 Winter showers (Jan-Feb) - 26mm 
 
 Average winter showers in city - 15mm
 
