HYDERABAD: The   government's failure to address the issue of   has led to an alarming rise in its numbers in the state, said child   at a meeting held on Saturday.

 Addressing the meeting, members of Mahita, an NGO working in the area of children's welfare, said that 50 per cent of marriages in India are child marriages.
 
 “In the state, over 3,000 child marriages have been witnessed in the past one year. Telangana has the fourth highest number of child marriages in the country,“ claimed M S Chandra, director of another NGO, Centre for Action Research and People's Development.
 
 According to the NGOs, the government officials, despite the rising menace, have done little to address the issue. In fact, the reason for the steep rise in count of minor marriages is the lack of strict action by the government against culprits, they added.
 
 “Victims of child marriages are mostly of the age-group of 12 to 16 ,“ said Amoga Laxmi of Mahita. She added that there is also a rise in dropout rates in secondary education system, which eventually leads to child marriage.
 
 According to activists, the state government should promote secondary education which will help reduce child marriage in the state of Telangana.
 
 “Due to lack of government awareness on the issue, girl children are unaware of whom to contact during such situations and end up getting married at a very young age,“ Chandra said.
 
 According to National Family Health Survey-4, nearly 25 per cent of women surveyed were found to have been married before the age of 18. The same data also revealed that 10.6 r cent of the women between ages 15 and per cent of the women between ages 15 and 19 years were mothers or pregnant at the time of the survey .
 
 “Even if they contact the child marriage provision officers, it is of little help as these officials are either not active in rural parts of the state and fail to respond to such issues,“ said Ramesh Shekhar Reddy , director of Mahita.
 
 Activists also pointed out how the issue often leads to several health complications in girls.
 
 “Due to early marriage and pregnancy , 40 per cent of the children born in the rural parts of the state are malnourished. In a metropolitan city like Hyderabad also, 16 per cent of the children who are born are malnourished. This is because the city has also witnessed several child marriages. Not just the children even the women are observed to have been suffering from malnutrition and several after birth complications,“ said Chandra.
 
