LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief   on Saturday charged   supremo   of having entered into a pact with the   for UP elections and said she is siding with the saffron brigade to target his party’s poll prospects.

 This is the first time Akhilesh has accused the BSP directly of shaking hands with the BJP in the ongoing elections particularly after Mayawati claimed her party would prefer to sit in opposition than form a government in the state with the help of BJP. So far, he had talked about possibility of BSP shaking hands with the BJP by referring to the much publicised “Raksha Bandhan” of 2002 when the then chief minister Mayawati tied a rakhi to Lalji Tandon of the BJP, her coalition partner in the state.
 
 Akhilesh’s salvo at BSP comes days after Union minister Ramdas Athawale offered her chair of deputy CM in UP in the event of BJP-BSP forming a coalition government in UP after the poll results are announced on March 11. The Dalit champion from Maharshtra, who is Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment said BJP had helped Mawayati become UP chief minister thrice in the past and it was time she accepted the post of deputy CM if a BJP-BSP coalition took shape in UP after the polls. 
 
 Earlier, SP’s Muslim face and senior minister in Akhilesh cabinet Mohammed Azam Khan had targeted Mayawati claiming that she was hand-in-glove with the BJP. “Behenji (Mayawati) says she had given tickets to 97 Muslims but don’t go by the numbers. This has been done in connivance with the BJP to divide the vote of Muslims who have always supported the SP,” Azam had said, addressing a public meeting in Rampur earlier this month.
 
 Attacking the BSP while addressing a public meeting in Shohratgrah (Sidhartnagar) on Saturday Akhilesh said: “Kehne ko to hum hum unko Bua kehte hain….Lekin unhone BJP se samjhauta kiya hua hai…humari party ko nuksaan karne ke liye….Aap jaante hain woh kya sameekaran bana rahee hain” (Though I call her Bua (Aunt), she has sided with the BJP to damage SP…she is already aligning with them). The SP chief warned people of Mayawati’s promises of development. “When she got the chance…she decided to construct monuments and parks…who will believe her now,” he said.
 
 Taking a dig at the BSP supremo’s election rallies, Akhilesh said she is in the habit of reading out exhaustive written speeches which are so monotonous that people fall asleep while she is speaking. 
 
 
