AMRAVATI: BJP State Vice President and  , who has been given the party’s reigns for the February 21 polls to  , is confident of BJP emerging as the single largest party and installing its mayor. He promises to rid the   of the ‘golden gang’ that allegedly ate into the civic body’s coffers. He assures to provide clean, transparent and corruption-free rule to the citizens. In a chat with ToI he speaks about his plans. Excerpts from an interview.

 Q. You have been very critical of the ‘golden gang’ operating in AMC
 
 Yes, I firmly believe that the ‘golden gang’ of corporators that operated in the AMC during Congress-NCP regime spoilt the development of the city. These corporators threatened, pressurized officers, staff and contractors to get the things done as per their desire to serve their vested interests. Purchase of fibre toilets at phenomenal cost, construction of sub standard cement roads that did not survive a monsoon season are but a few cases in which the gang gobbled up AMC funds. This misrule of Congress-NCP needs to be rooted out and I have vowed to work in this direction.
 
 Q. Do you think BJP will gain majority this time?
 
 The picture in 2012 was different but much water has flown under the Amba bridge since. BJP has emerged as a force to reckon with. It has recently won seven out of nine Nagar Parishad president’s posts while the emphatic victory of Dr.   in Amravati Division graduates’ polls has sent a very positive wave down the voters here. The mood is upbeat for the party and the inclination of the voters is largely towards it. Further, Congress and NCP have become non-existent here in the absence of any worthwhile leadership while Shivsena has been marginalized. I am sure BJP will install its mayor this time.
 
 Q. Where this confidence stems from?
 
 My confidence comes from the selection of candidates. We are contesting 75 seats. Of these 61 are grass root BJP workers, eleven are from erstwhile Janvikas Congress which merged with BJP with my entry in the party and three are totally new faces. I am confident of BJP emerging as the single largest party with over 35 seats.
 
 Q. But that won’t help you install BJP’s mayor?
 
 I have good relations with   MP Anandrao Adsul and other leaders. Whatever may have been the relations between the two parties at the state, we will form coalition with them here to see our mayor installed.
 
 Q What are your dreams of city’s development?
 
 If BJP comes to the helm, it will be my endeavour to built water tanks for the areas on the outskirts. Under Amrit scheme, a Rs122.57 crore plan is ready to upgrade city’s water supply, keeping in mind the population of 2045. Integrated road development scheme of Rs. 174.70 crore, beautification of fort wall, improved health services, activation of the dormant underground drainage scheme and underground electrification, and gharkuls to all are some of the prominent projects that will be undertaken.
 
 
