CHANDIGARH: A man was arrested for hurling a shoe at   and AAP national convener   when he was addressing a public meeting in Rohtak on Sunday. The shoe, however, missed its target.

 The incident happened when Kejriwal was speaking at ‘Tijori Tod Bhanda Fod' rally against demonetisation, during which he targeted Prime Minister  . 
 
 The shoe-thrower has been identified as Vikas Kumar from Dadri in Bhiwani district. He is a graduate and unemployed, a police official said. 
 
 AAP workers and cops in civilian clothes overpowered Vikas and handed him over to police at   station. SHO   said the shoe fell some distance from the main stage. "He has been taken into custody. During interrogation, he said he was hurt by Kejriwal's stand on the SYL issue which went against Haryana's interests. Though we have not received any formal complaint from organizers so far, he has been put under preventive arrest for breach of peace," the SHO said.
 
 Asked whether Kejriwal was the target, AAP's Haryana in-charge Navin Jaihind replied, "During questioning on the spot, he (Vikas) claimed to have hurled the shoe to express his displeasure against demonetization. It has nothing to do with Kejriwal ji or SYL." 
 
 Before he addressed the rally in Rohtak, Kejriwal, in a symbolic gesture, broke open the locker safe to take out documents recovered during income tax raids on two corporates in 2013 and 2014.
 
 While attacking the Prime Minister on demonetisation, he said the move had "made common man stand in long queues for their own money". He added that "when a common man was standing in queues, the banks were writing off a bad debt of Rs 1,200 crore outstanding against now absconding liquor barron  ". 
 
 "If Prime Minister Modi is so keen to unearth black money, he should release the list of 648 whose black money is lying in Swiss bank accounts," he added. Kejriwal also targeted Haryana chief minister   and ex-CM  , accusing them of creating a divide in the society.
 
 Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who was also addressed the rally, targeted Modi and criticised demonetisation, claiming it had failed to achieve the desired objectives of ending corruption, black money, fake currency and funding of terror networks.
 
