PANAJI: Rejecting the government objection to a request made by a life convict to be released on parole for a month for his nuptials, the high court of Bombay at Goa held that Goa Prisons Rules, 2006, allow a prisoner’s release on parole for his marriage ceremony and directed a jail official to examine the request.

 The prisoner’s civilly married wife and another person had approached the high court seeking his release after jail authorities declined to grant him parole for his wedding in December 2016.
 
 Incidentally, the rules provide a convict’s release on parole on the grounds of marriage of brother, sister and children. The government objected to his release before the court as the rules did not provide for giving him parole for his marriage ceremony.
 
 The convict, who has spent 11 years in jail, had made an application before the additional inspector general (prisons) on December 1, 2016, seeking parole for his wedding ceremony on December 27, 2016. The prisoner had also submitted his civil registration marriage certificate dated November 28, 2016, to the authorities. Authorities rejected his plea on January 4, 2017, apprehending breach of peace if he was released on parole.
 
 During the hearing of the case, additional public prosecutor M Amonkar referred to Rule 324 of the Goa Prisons Rules, 2006, which provides for emergent situations to grant parole to a prisoner. He argued that marriage of the prisoner was not an emergent situation but his own creation and therefore he could not be granted parole.
 
 Advocate for the petitioners, R Menezes, pointed out that as per the Rule 324, parole can be granted for any other sufficient cause which includes the marriage ceremony of the prisoner.
 
 While directing the   to examine the request for parole, a division bench comprising Justice F M   and Justice   Sardessai observed, “The fact remains that the expression, “for any other sufficient cause” would take within its sweep the marriage of the prisoner to order his release on parole.”
 
 While noting that parole can be granted for any other sufficient cause, the court observed that that it is not limited to the marriage of the brother, sister and children which were earlier the emergent situations contemplated in Rule 324 of the Goa Prisons Rules, 2006 . The convict has rescheduled his wedding to Friday.
 
 
