 lived with AIDS, but he lived not to be ashamed,’ read his obituary in local newspapers in 1992, in keeping with the wishes of the 33-year-old.

 The first Goan to test positive for HIV in 1989, Dominic Marcus D’Souza from Parra was, unfortunately, also the first to bear the brunt of ostracism. But he chose not to play the victim and went on to become one of the first HIV positive activists in the country, setting up the   ‘Positive People’, which completes 25 years this month.
 
 A hospital discovered antibodies in his blood after he had made a donation a few months earlier. On the morning of February 14, 1989, a policeman came knocking at his door, asking him to report at the Mapusa police station. He was then taken to a hospital and only learnt of his condition when his name was being written in a register labelled, ‘AIDS’.
 
 His ordeal didn’t end there. He was accompanied by police and taken to a former TB sanatorium and subjected to forced isolation for the next 64 days, in keeping with the provisions of the  , 1985.
 
 “Can you ever understand how I felt at this time? Subjected to armed police escort, asked the most embarrassing questions, being denied my request to contact my aged mother, confined to a filthy room, forced to drink water from the toilet tap and left utterly alone with my helplessness and fright? Probably just a little, but you can never fully realize the depths to which I had been hurt, humiliated and broken. I prayed most fervently to God to strike me dead. I did not want to live a moment longer,” he recounted at his speech at the International Aids Conference in Amsterdam, a little before he passed away.
 
 “The treatment I received from the medical personnel at the sanatorium could be compared to the lepers of old. They were most ignorant and unsympathetic. Every day, a doctor would come, supposedly to check me, but would stand outside the room and ask me how I felt, leaving with a sigh of relief when I said that I was feeling well. Pills of Lymph 52 and Vitamin B complex were sent in with my meals,” he added. 
 
 The Parra panchayat, in a written statement, demanded Dominic’s immediate release. The issue was raised in the legislative assembly and he was permitted to be taken home, with the government using the excuse that his mother, Lucy, was a nurse.
 
 Lucy petitioned the high court of Bombay at Goa to get the mandatory isolation clause struck down. Advocate Norma Alvares recalls how Dominic’s counsel Anand Grover, with a background in biochemistry, patiently explained the intricacies of HIV and its transmission. “Justice Motha thanked him for enlightening the court about HIV,” she says.
 
 The state government amended the Goa Public Health Act, making confinement optional and Grover didn’t succeed in repealing the entire clause. Nevertheless, this first case on HIV to come up in the Indian courts paved the way for the battle against discrimination for those who tested positive.
 
 Following his release, Dominic went back to his job at the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Goa office, where he had been working for the past six years, only to find that his colleagues turned against him. He was asked to seek early retirement because of his HIV positive status and subsequently worked as a designer, setting up a small boutique in  .
 
 Alvares, impressed with his skills in the English language, gave him a job at her alternative publishing set-up, ‘Other India Press’. Unaware how the others in the office would react, she created a space in her own house, from where Dominic worked for a few weeks. On seeing him welcomed into the Alvares home, and watching the children interact with him, the staff dispelled their fears of Dominic. Soon enough, he moved to the office to work with them. Alvares remembers him as an extremely enthusiastic human being who “carried a terrible cross lightly”.
 
 Dominic was a good hockey player, athlete and also loved theatre. He is fondly remembered by the Mustard Seed Art Company, headed by Isabel Santa Rita Vas, as an artiste who stirred the group’s imagination both, on and off the stage.
 
 But he had his moments of agony and cried over incidents of discrimination. “There was extreme prejudice back then,” Vas says, recalling an instance when Dominic’s close friend invited his family members to a wedding but personally asked only him not to attend. This was among the many reasons behind his zeal to set up an NGO to support those infected with HIV.
 
 ‘Positive People’ was registered on May 8, 1992, after Dominic’s return from Amsterdam. He died less than three weeks later at Breach Candy hospital. Volunteers at the NGO continue to work with high-risk groups, including female sex workers. The group’s most significant contribution, Vas says, has been creating awareness and dispelling misconceptions at a time when people thought HIV could be transmitted through mosquitoes and when others were afraid to breathe the air Dominic did.
 
 “Despite doctors handing him a death sentence from Day 1, Dominic didn’t wear this pathetic, ghostly, sad impression. He was charming and an articulate speaker who raised funds for the NGO himself. There couldn’t have been a better ambassador for the cause,” Alvares says.
 
 ‘Positive People’ has lately begun helping HIV orphans with education, accommodation and finding employment. A function to mark 25 years of its yeoman service to society will be held at Kala Academy’s open air auditorium, Panaji, from 7pm onwards today.
 
 
