Nagpur: The decision of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra, a state-owned company involved in commercial extraction of timber, to allow a sporting event inside Gorewada reserve forest has caused flutter among wildlife buffs and naturalists. As part of the wildlife week celebrations to be held from October 1-7, FDCM & Rotary Club of Nagpur have jointly organized a host of events under ‘Gorewada Forest Festival’.  One of the events hosted by Rotary is a 8.5-km cross country run on October 6 on the safari track of Gorewada. The participants will run through the reserve forest which ideally is meant for vehicle safari. Regional manager Sanjay Pathak said, “We have allowed the run as Gorewada forest is not a national park or sanctuary. Our idea by allowing the run is to promote tourism and the subsequent attractions like Indian Safari that is coming up as part of Gorewada international zoo. As far as animals are concerned we will take all precautions and animals will not be disturbed. Besides, restricted number of participants will be allowed.” “However, as per the Indian Forest Act 1927, the Rotary Club event implies to trespassing. Besides, in reserve forest only forestry activity is permitted and a cross country run is not a forestry activity,” said wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar. “There are various ways to promote Gorewada. The similar sport event can be organized outside Gorewada so that people know about it. The proposed zoo can be promoted at various indoor and outdoor forums. It will set a wrong precedent,” said Bhamburkar. FDCM managing director Umesh Agrawal was not available for comments. Divisional manager Nandkishore Kale did not respond to TOI calls. According to sources, only on Monday some labourers involved in road repairs in the forest sighted a leopard cub near the track where the run will be held. There is presence of leopards in the area and there can be risk. It will also disturb other wild animals. Rotary’s event coordinator Rajendra Jaiswal said, “Our aim is to promote tourism in Gorewada. As FDCM approached us, we agreed to host the events. If it is in violation of law, we will reconsider our decision.” FDCM itself has taken action against trespassers on the safari route earlier. In 2011, forest officials had denied permission to store material like bicycles and mattresses by Laughter Club members at Seminary Hills reserve forest citing reasons that it was not a forestry activity and hence was not permissible under the Act.