 C Vijaya Baskar on Sunday asked people with   to approach government hospitals near their homes for treatment. 

 Speaking after inspecting the fever wards at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial(MGM) Government Hospital in Trichy, he said, “Absence of awareness and understanding about dengue fever still persist amongst the public. Attenders of fever patients are urging the medical practitioners to suggest intramuscular injections which are against protocols of World Health Organisation (WHO) to deal dengue fever cases.” 
 
 “We have purchased and dispatched around 837 blood cell counters to all government hospitals in the state at an estimated cost of Rs 23.50 crore. Trichy government hospital has got three such machines which could help in detecting dengue cases in a matter of seconds. The public can visit the government hospitals nearby if they contract fever,” the minister added. Government hospital sources said that for the purpose of treating fever cases, a special fever ward has been functioning in MGMGH 24 x 7.
 
 “1,113 doctors have been appointed in government hospitals across the state, 744 more doctors would be appointed by the government in the second phase of filling up vacancies in health department,” said Vijaya Baskar. Acknowledging the absence of awareness among people to eliminate breeding grounds of dengue causing aedes mosquitoe, the minister claimed that short-films to spread awareness on source reduction of such mosquitoes are being screened in movie theatres. 
 
 The minister checked whether necessary infrastructure and treatment were in place for handling patients with fever-related ailments coming to MGMGH. 
 
 Stating that 12 confirmed dengue patients were being treated at Trichy GH currently, the minister lamented the absence of awareness amongst the public which has been the major challenge to douse dengue infections.
 
 Health department officials added that blocks like Manapparai, Musiri, Aranthangi and Manachanallur in Trichy and Pudukkottai districts have been found vulnerable with high number of fever cases. 
 
 The health minister added that around 179 fever cases were being treated in government hospitals in Trichy.
 
 
