KOLHAPUR: The Shivaji University,   ( ) has come up with a noble thought of providing temporary accommodation facility to the students from drought affected areas. 

 Chief proctor of SUK boys hostel G B Kolekar told TOI, “Some five or six students have been accommodated in the hostel till Friday. We are waiting for formal requests from other students as well.”
 
 “As per SUK guidelines, it is mandatory for the students to vacate the hostels after the summer exams. But, an exception has made been made for the students from the drought prone regions across the state,” he said.
 
 These students will be charged Rs 50 per day and they stay in the hostel until summer ends. “If someone wants to stay for a week then he has to pay Rs 350 in advance, following which the accommodation arrangement will be made for the concerned students in the hostel. Since the summer semesters are about to end, students must make sure that their applications reach on time,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the students told TOI that they were unaware of the provisional accommodation facility in the hostel.
 
 MSc first year student at SUK Nawaz Tamboli said, “I am from   town in   district. I have already found a temporary shelter with the help of my friends staying outside the SUK campus. I was not informed about the provisional accommodation facility. This is way cheaper and I would have preferred it over a PG or a hostel outside the campus.”
 
 “I cannot go back to Mangalvedha because of the severe water scarcity at this time of the year. I would like to stay in the city until summers. Had I and my friends were informed about the accommodation facility, we would have preferred staying with the campus premises,” he added.
 
 Another student from MSc   from Akluj said, “Many students are staying at the SUK campus even during vacations so that they can relieve the burden from their parents be it financial or otherwise. If we can be given proper accommodation with fewer fees, it will be of great help during summers.”
 
 According to a last year TOI report on May 3, SUK had made a temporary accommodation arrangement for SUK students. After the summer examination the university had ordered the students to vacate the hostels on May 1. However after the TOI report, the university rolled back its order and made arrangements for 130 students in its hostel number 1.
 
