Chennai: Universities will now have stricter regulations for qualifications for the appointment of teachers and academic staff in universities and colleges. The University Grants Commission ( ) in a circular last week has directed that PhDs acquired under distance mode would not be permissible for those who want to be appointed as teaching staff.

 This is part of measures taken to maintain higher standard in education and has been notified in the Gazette of India on July 11, 2016.
 
 Academics across the state said that none of the public universities in the state offer PhD in distance mode. However, there are many students in Tamil Nadu who travel to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to get PhD degrees in the distance mode as universities allow it there. The Tamil Nadu government also has a similar rule where candidates with degrees obtained from Open University, cannot apply for jobs in Universities.
 
 Quality of teaching staff in University of Madras has been questioned recently by retired professor Syed Rahamatullah as an RTI showed that the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) has not been functioning properly. 
 
 “In distance mode PhDs, the guide sits in one location, the candidate in one and the university which offers the degree, is in another location. This is not the correct way to pursue it,” said a senior professor of University of Madras.
 
 “Research is not like a post-graduation which can be offered through distance mode. It needs to be more rigorous,” said professor SS Sundaram, head of department of Indian history at University of Madras.
 
  Some universities in Tamil Nadu are open to external registration for PhDs, which is similar to the distance mode. “Since they are worded differently, they will escape. UGC must bring these practices under their regulations too,” said a retired professor and syndicate member, University of Madras.
 
 There are a number of teaching and non-teaching staff who come under Open University System in University of Madras who are lobbying to get syndicate regularisation for this, but the syndicate has declined to approve it recently.
 
 
