NEW DELHI: A few   of Delhi University that were termed “unpopular” in the past have transformed into sought-after destination this admission season, all thanks to them achieving top rankings, getting revamped infrastructure, a new campus and a shift in timings of classes from evening to morning.

 Among the honourable mentions are Aryabhatta College, formerly known as Ram Lal Anand College (Evening). “It became a full-fledged morning college from academic session 2014-15,” said Manoj Sinha, principal of the college.
 
 Atma Ram Sanathan Dharma College (ARSD) achieved a top spot in National Institutional Ranking Framework rankings after revamping its infrastructure. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) College’s new hi-tech campus turned its reputation around within a year, while Maharaja Agrasen College reaped benefits of being an exclusive DU-affiliated educational institution in east Delhi.
 
 Suresh Garg, DDU college principal, said a shift from their Karampura complex changed their reputation. “Students are keen on studying here as we have state-of-the-art facilities, including hi-tech laboratories and air-conditioned classrooms with audio-visual aids to assist studies,” he added.
 
 “Our college became a sought-after destination this year because of its prime location near a Metro station and a peaceful and spacious six-storeyed campus,” Garg added.
 
 Maharaja Agrasen College shifted to its new campus in 2011 from a makeshift building it shared with a school. “We used to function from just 17 rooms earlier. Shifting to the new campus had increased our intake capacity, but the cutoffs have also increased marginally. Our flagship courses like journalism have seen a surge in admissions every year,” said Sunil Sondhi, the college principal.
 
 He added that being “a solitary college of   in east Delhi attracts students not only from this region, but the entire NCR.” The girls’ hostel is an added benefit.
 
 The principal of ARSD, Gyantosh Jha, said students started banking on his college after improvement of the faculty’s reputation, apart from a renovation drive. “We have 20 classrooms and 12 laboratories that will be made functional this year. The newly-constructed atrium caters to space requirement of students for extra-curricular activities,” he said.
 
 Jha added that ARSD will be providing a business incubation centre to assist creation of start-ups and involving students in research projects.
 
 A new seven-storeyed building is all set to change the look of Aryabhatta College. “Till last year, we had to share space with Ram Lal Anand College for sports practice. This affected the training of our players. Another building is expected to be completed in the next 18 months. However, we still need an auditorium and hostels,” Sinha said.
 
 
