BENGALURU: Amidst high-flying basketball action from some of Asia's and Oceania's finest teams in Division A, India will be eager to regain lost pride as they bid to win promotion to the upper division in the 2017   that tips off at the   here on Sunday.

 The hosts were relegated to Division B after a winless outing in the 2015 edition and till date, their best performance from 17 appearances in Asia's prestigious tournament was when they finished fifth in 2013.
 
 Though the relegation denies them a shot at the trophy and qualification for the 2018   Women's Basketball Cup, it also means that they avoid facing Asian powerhouses such as Japan, China, South Korea and Chinese Taipei, who are in Division A.
 
 However, India's road to promotion for the 2019 edition looks fairly easy, given the level of competition in Division B. But lack of consistency, which has often troubled the women in the past, could come to haunt them against tricky opponents such as Lebanon, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.
 
 Led by veteran playmaker  , India are drawn along with Sri Lanka and Uzbekistan in Group A, with American Samoa having pulled out of the competition. An unbeaten run in the group phase could help the world No. 40 team head into the quarterfinals with an advantage, but consistency will be crucial against their lower-ranked opponents.
 
 The recently-held   Cup in Taiwan proved to be a testing affair for new coach  's wards, who returned winless after battling some of Asia's higher-ranked teams. "It gave us a lot of experience, something that will help us here," the Serbian coach said. "Those teams, they played like men. Our girls are not too strong. So we understand the need to be more aggressive on the court."
 
 While India bank on Anitha's experience, the spotlight will also be on highly talented forward Jeena Skaria, who will look to emulate her performance in the 2015 edition, where she was the team's top scorer.   is set to replace forward  , who is yet to recover from the knee injury she suffered in Taiwan.
 
 On Sunday, the Indian women will begin their campaign against Uzbekistan, who will rely on the big-scoring Elena Khusnitdinova and the 6"4' Aliya Samatova's defensive might to stun the hosts.
 
 
 
 
 The upper Division A is where all the action is, and with the inclusion of Australia and New Zealand this year, the newly expanded format is set for a thrilling finale.
 
 Heavyweights China dominate Group A. Led by stars such as Sun Mengran and Shao Ting, the 2015 finalists will be early favourites to coast through. Giving them a tough fight will be neighbours Chinese Taipei - who finished third in 2015 - and New Zealand, who will look to put their height advantage to good use.
 
 Defending champions Japan, the feisty South Korea and title contenders Australia will headline Group B. The Aussies, led by  , will go big on their physical prowess while the nippy Japanese - under talented playmaker Asami Yoshida - will have their lightning pace to bank on. North Korea and Philippines will be expected to spring some surprises as well in Group A and B respectively.
 
 India squad: Anitha Pauldurai (captain), Anjana PG, Barkha Sonkar, Raspreet Sidhu, Grima Merlin Varghese, Anmolpreet Kaur, Navaneetha PU, Kavita Akula, Rajapriyadarshini R, Jeena Skaria, Shireen Limaye, Poonam Chaturvedi.
 
 
 
 
 New Zealand, Chinese Taipei, North Korea, China.
 South Korea, Philippines, Japan, Australia
 
 
 Sri Lanka, India, Uzbekistan. 
 
 Lebanon, Singapore, Kazakhstan, Fiji
 
