PUNE: On Thursday evening, two middle-aged women entered a   in Hadapsar and exchanged four   bangles for those made of real gold with surprising ease but when they attempted a similar con at another branch of the same jeweller’s store on   on Saturday, their luck ran out.

 The watchful manager of the shop, with the help of Deccan Gymkhana police, caught one of the two women. However, her accomplice managed to escape arrest. The suspect Kamaladevi Chourasiya (40), arrested under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, hails from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 AB Mali, sub-inspector of the Hadapsar police station, told TOI that on Thursday around 6pm, two middle-aged women entered the jewellery shop and told an employee that they wanted to purchase some gold ornaments by exchanging their old bangles. 
 
 “The women showed four gold bangles to the employee. He checked the bangles using a machine. Their machine failed to identify that the bangles where merely gold plated imitation jewellery. After reading the faulty results of the machined the employee confirmed that the bangles were made of pure gold and valued the old ornaments for Rs 98,000,” Mali said.
 
 Mali said that the women then selected gold ornaments worth Rs 96,000 from the shop and also took cash of Rs 2,000 from the cashier and left. “Later, when the goldsmith in the shop melted the ornaments, he found that the bangles were actually made of copper,” Mali said.
 
 Mali said the goldsmith immediately alerted the manager about it. The manager checked the CCTV camera footage. The images of the women were captured and the manager alerted all the branches across the city. “The shop owner did not lodge a complaint as he felt that the women may strike again in one of their branches and he could catch them,” Mali said.
 
 On Saturday around 7.30pm, a woman entered the jeweller’s Karve Road branch. The manager of this branch had the   with him and immediately identified her. Instead of raising an alarm, he alerted the Deccan Gymkhana police.
 
 Assistant inspector of Deccan Gymkhana police Suyash Joshi and his team rushed to the shop. By that time, the woman had handed over her old bangles to the salesman and was selecting the gold ornaments. “We caught her then,” Joshi said.
 
 Joshi said the woman has revealed the name of her accomplice. “We have launched a search for her. Further investigations are on,” the officer said. 
 
 The arrested woman was produced before court on Sunday and remanded to police custody till Tuesday.
 
