Out of all the special days in the calendar, Mother's Day is probably the one which makes us brainstorm the most. After all, making our mothers feel special is no mean feat. If only we could please her by singing all the songs that Bollywood has created or if gifting all the expensive saris could make up for the memories that she has gifted us. Let's hear from some mothers on how they would like to celebrate Mother's Day. 

 
 Everyone loves holidays, for it gives you another reason to feel happy. Lathika Vishwanathan, a mother of two, says, "I always envy my children when they have a holiday on Children's Day. I wonder why no one ever assigned a day for mothers. Since I have to go for work and there are very few leaves, I sometimes wish if Mother’s Day could be declared a national holiday. After all, mothers deserve that!"
 
  
  (Thinkstock Photos/ Getty Images)
 
 
 And some mothers won’t mind being pampered by their kids. Pushpa Chandak, a resident of  , says, "Every Mother’s Day, my children ask me how I would want to celebrate it. Every year, I ask them to pamper me. So what if I’ve two sons, I am still a young girl at heart!"
 
 
 No one would want to sacrifice on their morning sleep. So does this mother. Sonia Mehrotra, a resident of South Extension, says, "I know it is my duty to make breakfast for my kids in the morning, but just like them, even I don’t like to be awakened early in the morning at 6 am. On Mother’s Day, I would love if my kids could step into my shoes and make me breakfast without me having to wake up."
 
 
 Yes, order and discipline is not required only in the court, but at homes too. Anita Jain, a resident of Gulmohar Enclave, says, "Being a mother of young kids is a task, as the home never stays in order. The kids always fling things around. Mother’s Day will be the best if I am not required to keep cleaning the house all day."
 
 
 Mothers are special, and no one can understand it better than a mother herself. Rekha Tanwar, a mother of two, says, “When I was a kid, I was very naughty. My mother always said, 'You’ll know how it feels when you’ll be a mother'. And now when I am a mother to two grown-up children, I can totally understand her journey. This Mother’s Day, I would like to take my mother out for dinner along with my kids and my mother-in-law, to make all of them feel special."
 
 
 It is no fun if you don’t fight with your siblings, but not in front of your mother. Rekha Soni, a mother of four says, "The best day will be when my children don’t fight. They have so many ideas, so many opinions that when they come together it is like a Parliament session. This Mother’s Day, I would like to see them discussing things, but in a more civilised manner!"
 
  
  
 
 -- Vaishali.Soni@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
