Nagpur: Nearly two years back, the Accountant General’s (AG) office estimated that Rs3.26 crores was wasted due to shoddy plantation work done by agency BVG India. However, a year later, the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had issued BVG a certificate of excellence. Fast forward to today, and the civic body is urging the state government to appoint botanical experts to probe the alleged plantation scam. Documents provided to TOI by BVG, the agency involved in tree plantation for NIT in 2012-13, reveal that the civic body was satisfied with its work. The agency has shifted the blame to NIT for non-survival of plantations since “NIT was supposed to take care of the saplings after September 2015”. However, in May 2015, the senior audit officer of AG (Audit)-II had said that Rs3.26 crore given to BVG India for taking care of saplings had gone waste since many saplings did not survive. The audit officer had further directed NIT to impose a fine of Rs3,000 per failed plant on the agency. Then, on August 27, 2015, NIT wrote back that the agency should not be fined since it had done replantation against failed saplings. “Some plants could not survive due to heat, white ants in the soil, and digging work taken up by different agencies. But since BVG India has done replantation, it won’t be right to impose a fine,” the reply said. NIT also said that it was yet to pay Rs50-60 lakh to the agency and will clear final bill only after casualty replacement. The letter was signed by seven NIT officials, including executive engineer (west), divisional officer (west), executive engineer (north), divisional officer (north), executive engineer (south-east), divisional officer (south) and divisional officer (east). Then, the executive engineer (west) issued BVG a certificate on March 5, 2016, stating — “during the course of plantation and maintenance, the performance of contractor was found excellent. Contractor has sufficient machinery, technically sound manpower and it has good experience of plantation of big tree and maintenance”. BJP MLC Girish Vyas, who exposed the scam, blamed NIT officials for “favouring” the agency and not following audit officer’s recommendation. “The agency had not even planted 1.60 lakh trees in the first place, but NIT kept giving it a clean chit at every stage,” Vyas said. A BVG India spokesperson said that post-September 2015, the maintenance liability was with NIT. “Many trees got damaged as NIT did not make provisions for tree guards. BVG India is not responsible for the maintenance work after the completion date of project,” he said. The official added that during its tenure, the agency had carried out replantation against failed saplings in different areas of the city. Vyas, however, said that even till September 2015, the survival rate was abysmally low. “Action should be taken against senior officials rather than gardeners. I would now file a public interest litigation,” he added.