THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   on Monday asked the government to convene an   to discuss the   and crisis owing to drastic cut in ration rice quota to the state. If all parties are willing, the meeting will be held on Wednesday.

 The   which met here had a detailed discussion on the drought situation. Revenue minister E Chandrasekharan who attended the meeting as a special invitee briefed the leaders about the gravity of situation. The LDF asked government to initiate steps to rejuvenate all sources of drinking water in the state. “We are facing the worst drought in a century . Government initiatives alone can't solve the crisis.Local self-government institutions should unite all people and work towards relief measures,“ LDF convener Vaikom Viswan said. The LDF state committee appealed the Union government to provide maximum help.
 
 Finance minister T M  , who attended the meeting, painted a bleak picture of state's finances in front of the leadership.He said the hopes the state are pin ned on the GST regime which will be ushered in soon. However, Isaac said, the forthcoming budget will be in line with the principles upheld by the LDF .
 
 Transport minister A K Saseendran apprised the meeting of the situation faced by KSRTC. The LDF endorsed Saseendran's views and asked the government to take initiative for providing salary and pension without fail to corporation employees. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government was waiting for expert Sushil Khanna's report and once that is submitted, steps will be initiated to bring   on track.
 
 The growing tension between   and CPI was raised in the meeting by JD(S) nominees K Krishnankutty and C K Nanu. But, there was no discussion on the issue. Later, Vaikom Viswan said two parties might differ on a number of issues and whenever there were issues they would sort it out themselves, hinting that there would be mutual discussion between CPM and CPI.
 
 The LDF also decided to celebrate the 60th anniversary of first LDF government. The first LDF government came to power in the state on April 5, 1957. A week-long programme, starting on April 5, to celebrate the diamond jubilee of   government will be organized in the state.
 
