CHENNAI:   at   brandishing the faces of   to lure prospective students during the   will now be a thing of the past, with the   asking all schools to cease the practice with immediate effect.

 Citing a recent government order – which prohibited the districts and state from announcing toppers in the class 12 state board exam – the body has announced that all matriculation and state board schools in the state should pull down any advertisement or notice splashing the names of toppers and their achievements, effectively gagging the practice of schools marketing themselves using their toppers.
 
 The directorate’s announcement stated that this has been done considering the well-being of students, “in a bid to reduce the anxiety caused to students in school and to inhibit the growth of unhealthy competition amongst them.”
 
 “The main focus of the move is the avoidance of the 1-2-3 rank announcing system practised by schools. Now, schools can only make a general announcement about their performance, but cannot flaunt individual performers,” said school education secretary T Udhayachandran, speaking to TOI.
 
 Currently, several franchise schools in the state have the practice of putting up large banners after cherry-picking their ‘top performers’, displaying their photos, school/district/state ranking and even individual subject scores.
 
 “Despite the move to do away with topper announcements in the recent state board exams, these efforts are soiled by a section of schools which had privately published its toppers through either media or on their premises. This move targets this trend,” said another senior education official. The directorate in its announcement has also asked matriculation inspectors across the state to submit a report on this at the earliest.
 
 Educationists have given the thumbs up for the move, highlighting the amount of mental duress faced by students, which is amplified by this kind of ‘topper-branding’. Commending the move, Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of state platform for common school system, has called for this directive to be extended to all coaching centres which follow the same practice as well.
 
 “Many schools in the city have tie-ups with coaching centres which run classes on the school premises. They can very well put out announcements through the names of these centres as well. Such practices can be uprooted only if this extends to all private coaching centres,” he said. 
 
 Calling the practice of advertising using students’ names ‘highly unethical’, he added that it feeds cut-throat competition and pits students against each other, causing anxiety for many.
 
 
