HYDERABAD: Peak-hour traffic at the busy Tadbund crossroads came to a screeching halt in the early hours of Tuesday, after a portion of the road caved in. What started as a leak in the 25-year-old pipeline at the busy junction slowly turned into a gush, leading to loosening of the soil. The road finally caved in following passing of several heavy vehicles, leaving a huge cavity at the spot.“Water suddenly gushed out of the pipeline to a height of five to six meters. The incident occurred in the early hours when there was not much traffic. However, as the traffic picked up, vehicles piled up on the road," G Mahesh, a resident of the locality told TOI.

 Two home guards, who arrived at Tadbund crossroads at around 7am to regulate traffic, were not prepared for such a gridlock. “Seeing the source of traffic jam, we immediately alerted Trimulgherry traffic inspector R Rajeshwar Rao.The latter alerted the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and   (HMWS&SB) officials regarding the road cave-in and consequent flooding of the road," M Lakshminarayana, one of the home guards said.
 
 Since the incident occurred on the National Highway 44, which sees plying of hundreds of buses bound for several districts like Adilabad, Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Medak and cities in Maharashtra, besides innumerable city buses and private vehicles, we had a tough time in regulating traffic.
 
 “The damaged pipe is nearly two-and-half-decade-old 300-mm diameter trunk main.The road caved in suddenly due to water leakage from the broken pipeline. The pipeline was connected to Hasmathpet reservoir from   (HMWS&SB water supply network) to pro vide drinking water to some areas in the  ," said general manager, (O&M Division-IX-KPHB), HMWS&SB, R B Anil Kumar.
 
 Soon after receiving information about the damage at around 7am, we pressed into service an earth mover and workers to dig the damaged portion. The asbestos cement pipeline, which was at a depth of two-and-half-meters below the ground was removed.Though two to three-meter length of the pipeline was damaged, we replaced 15-meter length of pipe as a precaution, he said. The restoration work was completed by 7pm, said Anil Kumar.
 
 “Due to the pipeline damage, water supply to nearly 3,000 households at Hasmathpet,  ,  , Tadbund and adjoining areas was affected, said the water board official.
 
 It is difficult to pin down the exact reason for the damage to the pipeline. This could have been caused by heavy trucks which pass daily on the NH 44, carrying huge turbines weighing about 200 tonnes to BHEL and other firms, replied Anil Kumar.
 
 When TOI contacted HMWS&SB director (Operations), A Kirshna said instructions were given to the general manager concerned to prepare a proposal to replace the old pipeline to prevent similar accidents in future."
 
 
 
 
 A series of sinkholes across city streets is a grim reminder of how the age-old pipelines must be replaced immediately to avoid accidents. Authorities must take stock of the situation and take urgent measures to replace the old pipelines.
 
