MUMBAI: Central Railway’s  , which has the first 180-degree rotatable chairs, observation lounge for panoramic view and a glass roof, got about 20-30% bookings for the inaugural run with   to Goa on Monday morning.

 The lacklustre response for bookings this week could be because the train has higher fares than budget airlines to Goa. But senior railway officials, including general manager D K Sharma, were elated on Sunday when they learnt that the entire coach had been booked for the   weekend, with online booking for September 30 showing a waiting list. “This is a good response for us,” said Sharma.
 
 On competition from budget airlines, whose fares are Rs 1,850-2,000, when the   fare is Rs 2,235 (Dadar-Madgaon), he said, “Airline fares are dynamic and can fluctuate. The same airfare could be Rs 3,000 and more during the peak/festive season, but our fares will stay the same.”
 
 He said the train will provides a different perspective to travellers. “You can enjoy the scenic beauty on the Konkan route and there are many people who prefer to travel by train than air. They would love to see the train traverse through the beautiful landscape, which can be well enjoyed during the daytime through the glass roof, wide window glasses and an exclusive observation lounge for a panoramic view,” he said. The glass roof has a “switchable glass” that becomes transparent or translucent with the click of a switch.
 
 Another railway official said it may take time for the coach to attract more passengers. There were also three bookings of 40 seats for Thursday’s journey till 3pm on Sunday, sources said, adding that no seat was booked for September 23 and 25, while six were booked for September 28, and all seats were booked for September 30. Officials expect the coach to get more commuters from November.
 
 During the monsoon (up to October 31), it will run on Monday, Thursday and Saturday, leaving Dadar at 5.25pm. During non-monsoon months, it will run on all days except Wednesday.
 
 FARES FOR VISTADOME COACH 
 
 Dadar-Madgaon | Rs2,235
 
 Dadar-Thivim | Rs2,120
 
 Dadar-Kankavli | Rs1,870
 
 Dadar-Ratangiri | Rs1,480
 
 (Seats in coach | 40)
 
 
