New Delhi: The   on Thursday blasted the Centre for not complying with its order to frame rules for preservation of wetlands and warned that it would put the environment secretary behind bars if the government failed to give a road map within a week for conservation of wetlands. 

 In April, the SC had set a deadline of June-end for the government to notify the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, but the Centre sought six more months to implement the law. A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta got infuriated when told that its order had not been complied with. Without mincing words, the court said the government was not serious in conserving wetlands.
 
 Wetlands are defined as areas of land temporarily or permanently covered by water. They play a crucial role in storm and flood control, water supply, providing food, fibre and raw materials. They also support lakhs of migratory birds that come from colder regions in summers, apart from diverse local flora and fauna. 
 
 The bench noted that although the government talked about its commitment to the Paris Accord on climate change, it was not concerned about environment protection in the country. "You have taken us for a ride and you are making proceedings in the Supreme Court a joke," the bench said. 
 
 The court reminded the Centre that being a signatory to the 1971 International Convention on Wetlands, it was bound to frame a policy for their preservation. "How will you face the international community and what will you tell them about its implementation?" the court asked, slapping a fine of Rs 50,000 on the Centre. 
 
 With wetlands being encroached upon by builders and governments for various projects, some environmentalists had approached the SC. The court has been examining the issue since 2001 and has passed various orders. It had directed the Centre to take immediate steps to protect around two lakh wetlands across the country. 
 
 Senior advocate Jayant Bhushan and lawyer Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for the petitioners, said the Centre had been consistently flouting the court's orders and pleaded that action be taken against its officials. They said the government had released more than Rs 900 crore over the years but its expenditure was never audited.
 
 The Centre's counsel Ashok Panda said the court should seek explanation from states on how they had spent the money, but the bench was not satisfied. 
 
 In 2011, ISRO had prepared a national wetlands atlas on the basis of satellite images and mapped 2,01,503 wetlands. Total wetlands area was estimated at 15.26 million hectares, or 4.63% of the country's area. Lakshadweep had 96.12% of its area under wetlands followed by Andaman and   (18.52%), Daman and Diu (18.46%), Gujarat (17.56%), Puducherry (12.88%), West Bengal (12.48%), Assam (9.74%), Tamil Nadu (6.92%), Goa (5.76%), Andhra (5.26%) and UP (5.16%). 
 
 
