Since bursting onto the national racing scene in 2014, Hyderabadi racer   has been winning titles and making everyone sit up and take notice. His latest feat — clinching the F1600 class title at the recently concluded Indian National Racing Championship 2017 held at the Madras Motor Race track in Chennai — only cements his position further. such was his dominance on the points table, that   won the coveted championship a day before the finale without even completing the race. “There was only one race on Saturday and I was leading it when the driver behind me made a misjudgment and bumped into my rear wing. My wing was completely destroyed following which I couldn’t finish the race. I had another collision in the second race on Sunday with the same driver. I don’t exactly know what went wrong with his car. Of course the race didn’t go well for me, but I had the points to make it to the top of the podium,” says Anindith, crediting his consistent performance over the months for his edge over competitors. “The championship started sometime in January at the BIC ground in Noida, Delhi. Before last weekend’s three races, I had consistently done well in the other 13 races and had maintained a good points record,” he adds. 
The mechanical engineering graduate has some very interesting methods to keep himself race ready: “Racing is one sport for which we cannot practise on a tarmac every day. Also, there are limited number of tracks for racing in the country. So, I spend some time at the gym every day. I try to stimulate the situations of circuit trainings in my head and create the conditions I experience behind the wheel during the races through physical activity such as cardio exercises,” Anindith informs.
 
 
 Son of Chevella MP   and grandson of healthcare honcho Prathap C Reddy, Anindith’s love for fast cars and racing developed from a very young age. “My father, who’s also an adventure enthusiast, gifted me a go-kart on my seventh birthday. I’ve been hooked to cars ever since,” he says. However, while racing is an expensive sport, his lineage accounts for nothing on the race track, avers Anindith. “in comparison to a lot of other countries, racing in India is actually cheaper. on the race track, it doesn’t really matter whether you are rich or not. Wealth is not a criteria to be a racer,” he says, signing off. 
 
 
 
