VISAKHAPATNAM: There seems to be no let-up in fire mishaps or blasts in pharma units in the   and the industrial cluster on the fringes of the port city. While allegations fly thick and fast over poor  , what is worrying is the loss of human lives at regular intervals.

 The three north Andhra districts have around 200 hazardous industries and   district alone has around 75 hazardous out of 1,500 industries of all types. What has not stopped is the spate of mishaps even after a recent safety audit conducted by the   and series of reviews with the factories managements.
 
 The Left parties allege that the government favours the pharma industries and turns a blind eye towards the safety of the workers. But district collector Pravin Kumar claims that they have brought nearly 90 per cent of industries to comply with safety guidelines. 
 
 “The accident at Azico unit is a human error. The supervisor who has 12 years’ experience in the operations should have taken extra precautions. It was static charge and ignited in the process of cleaning with solvent,” district collector Pravin Kumar said. 
 
 The managements should also check internal safety of the men on a daily or weekly basis by interacting with them, he opined.
 
 Joint chief of factories K Varma told TOI that the pharma unit’s compliance was close to 63% in May last and it was close to 92% by the end of this year March. 
 
 He said there were ‘C’ and “D’ grade factories in safety norms. But now after the safety audit that was started in the month of May last year, the lowest grade is “B” in the district. “Now, we are in a process to enchance the safety further level by motivating them by giving A + and A++ likewise. The number of factories has increased,” he explained.
 
 CPM district secretary K Lokanatham alleged that workers have been becoming victims due to negligence of the factories and government. He accused that fire accident had taken place in Sainor, Mylan, Rampex, Lohit pharma units and alivera in SEZ recently. He said five workers died in Hetero unit blast in Nakkapalli in 2013 and two killed in Deccan chemicals reactor blast, three workers killed in Divis company accident and many accidents had taken place in the district. He accused that the inspector of factories had not taken any action over the safety norms violators till the date and also not revealing the investigation reports over the mishaps in the pharma units. He demanded that the government conduct an inquiry and pay Rs 50 lakh as compensation to the deceased families along with a job for the family.
 
