CHENNAI:   having parallel businesses may soon be a thing of the past with the Chennai city   commissioner asking officials to prepare a list of cops engaged in other occupations such as real estate, cab agencies and eateries. Departmental action will soon be initiated against   involved in other businesses.

 A confidential report submitted before the top brass of the city police said that at least four dozen police personnel from the rank of police constable to assistant commissioner of police are directly or indirectly involved in other businesses. The report said, "Many   have engaged blood relatives to run fast food franchises in the city." Earlier, many police personnel owned auto rickshaws to ply in the city. Now, Several police personnel have bought cars and enrolled drivers with leading cab agencies and a few officials in the rank of assistant commissioner of police are also involved in the real estate business, said the report.
 
 The report also noted that at least 15 police personnel with the roving squad of the city police in the Secretariat have been serving for 6-10 years now at the same police station. 
 
 Serving in the same police station for many years would help cops strengthen their clout with businessmen and criminals, leading to violations, said a retired police officer S Aravindan. "Police personnel can have long stints if they are in special units as they need time to develop informers in their respective beats. But police personnel in law and order and crime should be shuffled every three years," he said.
 
 Recalling an incident at the anti-vice squad, the officer said some police head constables turned a blind eye to prostitution centres after collecting bribes a few years ago. After the issue came to light, the entire unit was immediately replaced with new police personnel.
 
 The police top brass have asked officers for a list of personnel serving in the same police station, sub-division or range for more than three years. A senior police officer said, "Long-standing police personnel in the same positions will be shunted out of the zone to other places."
 
