COIMBATORE: The residents got a glimpse of designs of all the six model roads to be laid in the city as the commissionerate of municipal administration, G Prakash, inaugurated the Smart Streets Exhibition here on Saturday. The Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) put on display the designs for the people’s feedback.

 In another instance, the commissionerate of municipal administration and an official attached to the urban development ministry visited DB Road and T V  , where the architects have started a trial run of the  .
 
 The Rs5.47-crore project had been stuck in red tape, despite work orders being issued. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) and other organisations had failed to arrive at a consensus on removing the underground cables. Telephone lines, electricity cables, underground sewage lines and other pipelines need to be shifted to the ducts that would be set up on the footpaths. “We hope to hold meetings after the exhibition and start work on the project,” said one of the architects.
 
 Under the project, D B Road, T V Samy Road, Sanganoor Road, Masakalipalayam Road, Race Course Road and   would be developed as model roads. These roads would feature even and wide pedestrian pathways with some space for greenery, ducts, benches and designated parking spaces. The roads would be more pedestrian friendly and less congested.
 
 Several residents and commuters, meanwhile, visited the exhibition venue and interacted with the architects.
 
 Arun Kumar Kandhasami, architect incharge for D B Road, said they found 246 permanent obstructions and 324 temporary obstructions on the footpath. “We will ensure that the obstructions are removed and the roads are accessible for all,” he said.
 
 “Also, 622 cars were parked at any given time against the allowed occupancy of 260. Only 1,056 pedestrians used the footpath while 4,088 pedestrians avoided it,” Arun added.
 
 Architect  , who designed the T V Samy Road, said the main problem was that the footpath was uneven and not connected. “The elevated zebra crossings and bus stops will be the highlight of the newly-designed road,” he said.
 
 They found 53 temporary obstructions and 126 permanent obstructions on the footpath on TV Samy Road. Also, 1,070 extra vehicles were parked, causing congestion. “Our aim is to ensure that the road provides comfort, access and sociability to the commuters,” Sarfaraz said.
 
 Shreya Gadepalli, director of ITDP, said the model roads would change the face of the city. “We want all the roads to be re-designed and developed as model roads because there won’t be any need to build flyovers then,” Shreya said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan and G Prakash urged the public to give their feedback so that it could be incorporated into the designs.
 
