PATNA: Chief minister   on Wednesday asked members of the state assembly to exercise caution and give well considered thought in demanding representation on the management committees of private colleges which give +2 education and also get grants-in-aid from the state government, as they would also be held responsible for any financial and other irregularities committed in these institutions. 

 The CM said this while making an intervention in the government’s reply earlier given by education minister Ashok Choudhary to the call attention notice of senior Congress member Ashok Ram. Even as the minister had described the existing legal and related position, Ram pleaded with Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary that he either set up a House committee to make the recommendation on the demand that he had made, or take the decision at his level in consultation with a select group of House members, and also give necessary directive to the state government.
 
 “The state government does give them performance-based grants-in-aid in accordance with the number of first-division students they produce in the +2 examinations, but they are private colleges and they also have their own independent management committees,” the CM said, intervening in the reply given by the minister.
 
 The minister had earlier explained to the House that since 1992, the affairs of around 150 private colleges giving Intermediate education, earlier called ‘vitta rahit (financially un-aided)’ colleges, were regulated by Bihar State Intermediate Education Council (BSIEC), which was disbanded by the Nitish government in 2007. Accordingly, the affiliations of the private colleges concerned were transferred to Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). In the altered situation, these colleges began to be popularly called ‘vitta-sahit (financially aided)’ colleges. 
 
 Besides, as per the 1992 rules of BSIEC, MPs and legislators from the districts concerned used to be on the management committees of these colleges in particular district, but after the disbanding of BSIEC and the transfer of affiliation of the private colleges concerned to BSEB, the practice of putting the MPs and legislators on the management committees of the colleges became infructuous, the minister added. 
 
 The CM, in his intervention, said the affiliations of the unaided private colleges were transferred to BSEB that was also authorised to conduct the +2 examinations to comply with the uniform pattern prevailing in the country. 
 
 He said the takeover of these colleges was not possible, because the teachers and staff working in these colleges had not been appointed adhering to the reservation criteria. The state government also gives grants-in-aid to madrassa schools, but these private educational institutions cannot be taken over by the state government, the CM added. 
 
 
