
PATIALA: The   has now come up with a proposal to take into consideration hotels, restaurants and dhabas that could provide hygienic food to its passengers during night on long routes. It will tie up with these hotels or dhabas, where the buses will stop at the destined time. Besides, it will also install a board on which a phone number of the PRTC grievance cell will be given for passengers to file complaints if unhygienic food is being provided by restaurant or dhaba owners. 
 
 The proposal has been made by the newly appointed chairman   and his team comprising managing director   and others. The PRTC will tie up with these dhabas or restaurants to get discounted meals for passengers. The proposal is for long route buses like the ones which go till Manali and Delhi from different depots of  . The orders will soon be tabled across the state from where PRTC runs its buses.
 
 For long, the PRTC has been receiving complaints about bus drivers and conductors, who earlier used to stop buses at dhabas in return for certain benefits. However, this had left commuters with no option but to eat what was made available to them at these dhabas. Of late, passengers had been complaining about the bad quality food being provided by these dhabas, where PRTC drivers used to stop their buses. Moreover, many dhabas had no provision of washrooms.
 
 Sources revealed that the department received a number of complaints regarding PRTC buses making halts at dhabas before the completion of even half of the route. Now, the PRTC has decided that the buses will not stop at any dhaba on long routes before half of the journey gets completed. Instead, the PRTC would decide and tie up with the dhabas that would be providing proper facilities. 
 
 Managing director Manjit Singh Narang said that, "The priority is cleanliness and provision of toilets at dhabas, especially for women. We will tie up with these dhabas and get discount from them for passengers. The inspectors and other officials have been deputed on this work and they will submit a report within this week with a list of dhabas with which the PRTC can tie up."
 
