 before a   hearing   Jyotirmoy Dey’s murder, a senior journalist narrated a conversation he allegedly had with accused  , where the latter confessed to killing Dey.

 The journalist informed the special Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) court, presided by judge SS Adkar, that Rajan himself called him up months after Dey’s murder and told him that he regretted killing Dey and that he was ‘misinformed’.
 
 “He told me that he regretted killing J Dey. I identified his voice as I had received phone calls from him on earlier occasions also. I had heard interviews he had given to news channels as well. He said that he was misinformed about Dey (kisine mere kaan bhare the),” he said during his examination by Special Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat.
 
 The journalist then said that he wrote about this conversation in his blog and his statement was also recorded by the police. However, during his cross examination, defense lawyers Prakash Shetty and Santosh Deshpande questioned the authenticity of the blog as there was no recorded proof of these telephonic conversations.
 
 The defense also alleged that the blog was evidence planted by the police. Giving details of the earlier conversations he has had with Rajan, the journalist said that Rajan had told him he was responsible for killing two of Dawood Ibrahim’s men as well as carrying out the shoot out against his younger brother’s bodyguard.
 
 “In the earlier conversation he had told me that the firing on Chhote Miya and Asif Daadi was done at his behest. I knew Arif Sayyed and in one of our conversations Rajan told me that he ordered the firing on him,” he said.
 
 Giving more details he further recollected, “Rajan said that J Dey wanted to meet him in London but he did not meet him there beacuase Rajan’s informer had tipped him off of J Dey’s affiliation with Dawood and that Dey was going to meet Dawood’s men too, in London. He (Rajan) told me that he should not have killed Dey as journalists are free to write what they want.”
 
 Another journalist was also examined by the prosecution on Tuesday regarding an article he had written on the case. The article was about a former journalist who testified before the court but had to be declared hostile.
 
 So far over 70 witnesses have been examined in the case. It is the prosecution’s case that Dey, who was gunned down by a .32 mm pistol by four men on two bikes, was killed at deported gangster Chhota Rajan’s behest because of a book Dey was allegedly writing ‘against Rajan.’
 
