NAGPUR: The  , which is often accused of being dominated by Brahmins, has surprised all by giving tickets to only 8 out of the 151 seats in the local civic body. There are 68 seats in the open and 83 in the reserved categories. Candidates of all castes find berths even in the remaining 60 seats in the open category. 

 This has upset many RSS swayamsewaks who were wanting to contest the elections slated for February 21. A few RSS workers joined   and are contesting against the BJP as there is no alliance between them. Some workers are also contesting as independent candidates.
 
 Of the 151 seats, 41 seats are reserved for OBC while 30 for SC and 12 for ST and remaining 68 are open. 
 
 BJP’s Brahmin faces are Sandip Joshi (No. 16), Dayashankar Tiwari (No. 19),   (No. 15), Dilip Diwe (No. 37), Sumedha Deshpande (No. 18), Vishaka Mohod (No. 35), Shradha Pathak (No. 22) and Archana Pathak (No. 11).
 
 In the 2012 elections, there were over 15 Brahmin candidates in the 145 seats. Among the 62 winners of BJP, six were Brahmins. Earlier, BJP used to nominate many Brahmins in the open category.
 
 A glance at BJP’s list of candidates shows the party has selected candidates from all communities as per their strength in the respective wards. All four Muslim candidates — Nasim Bano Ibrahim Khan (No. 3), Jaitunbi Ansari (No. 8), Mohammed Farooq Sheikh Chota (No. 9) and Rabiya Lala Qureshi (No. 6) are contesting in the open category and fielded in Muslim-dominated wards.
 
 The Sindhi community falls under the open category and BJP has chosen three from this community. No. 1 comprises 15,000 Sindhi voters so BJP has fielded Vicky Kukreja and Pramila Mathrani from the open seat. The third Sindhi — Meghraj Mainani (No. 23) -- is also from the open seat. In 2012, there was only one Sindhi candidate   who lost.
 
 With 41 seats reserved for OBCs, the BJP has given many open seats to suitable candidates as per their population in the wards with No. 31 being the best example. Of the total 60,000 voters here, 30,000 are from OBC, 9,000 from SC, 2,500 from Brahmin and others. 
 
 BJP has fielded three OBC persons from No. 31 — Dr Ravindra Bhoyar, Satish Holey and Sheetal Kambde. The fourth candidate is Usha Pilot (SC). Similarly, three of the four candidates from No. 36 are from OBC. 
 
 In several wards like No. 18, the BJP has roped in two men from OBC — Pravin Datke and Sudhir Raut.
 
 There was a time when BJP would find it difficult to give tickets to ST candidates. For this elections, BJP has fielded ST candidate Deepraj Pardikar from an open seat in No. 20 which is dominated by Halba community.
 
 Denying that the BJP has allotted tickets as per caste or community, city president Sudhakar Kohle said, “Ours is a party that belongs to all.”
 
 He also denied any heartburn among RSS swayamsewaks. “Every member of BJP is a swayamsewak.”
 
 Over a dozen RSS swayamsewaks, many of who come from families of RSS bigwigs, are in the fray against BJP candidates after being denied tickets.
 
 In BJP-dominated No. 15, Vishaka Joshi, Pankaj Patel and Dr Dattatray Pitale (all Shiv Sena), and independent candidate Prasanna Paturkar are from RSS families. Also, all are office-bearers of BJP with Joshi being the president of BJP West Nagpur’s women cell, Patel vice-president of BJP’s West Nagpur unit and Paturkar a former secretary of BJP city unit.
 
 Vishaka is wife of AP Joshi whose cousin brother Ravi Joshi is RSS in charge of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa. 
 
 “It is a big injustice to our family and also BJP workers from West Nagpur,” said Vishakha. Adding that she has been working for the party for the last eight years, she said, “I was denied a ticket in the 2012 elections with a promise of being given one in the next. Again I have been ignored so we formed a panel and will show our strength.”
 
 Paturkar’s grandfather Rajabhau was among the five pracharaks appointed by RSS founder KB Hedgewar when the organization was formed in 1925. “Since the last three generations, we have been dedicated to RSS. We have served on many posts in BJP and the erstwhile Jan Sangh. Still, I was denied a ticket, and hence contesting as an independent,” he said.
 
 Sitting corporators like Girish Deshmukh, Rashmi Fadnavis, Prabha Jagnade, Gopal Bohare and others, all of who are RSS swayamsevaks, too have been denied tickets by the BJP.
 
