LUDHIANA: Even as   forms sizeable number of voters in various constituencies of the city, they have been facing many problems and will be voting for solution to many problems. Among the issues in these areas are security, better sewerage, water supply, proper disposal of garbage, and stoppage of express trains at Dhandari area where their concentration is high.

 Says Raj Kumari of Ranjeet Nagar who originally belongs to Purnia in Bihar, “There is severe sewerage problem in our area and water from sewerage pipes do get mixed with drinking water supply pipes due to leakage. The result is that every year we face this gastroenteritis problem. We need better water supply so that we don’t become prone to such diseases. 
 
 Also as water gets accumulated in the streets due to faulty sewerage system, we are at risk of mosquito borne diseases as well”. “In October last year my husband also had dengue and then my children had frequent fevers”. She added that though many candidates have been making rounds of the area but they will vote for a party which promises to solve this issue.
 
 Many Migrant voters from Sherpur, Gyaspura, Dhandari Kalan, Jodhewal, Chandigarh road also raise the issue of lack of sense of security as major election issue.
 
 “There is not much sense of security in our areas and police machinery has failed to bring in fear in the minds of criminals. Not only have the migrant factory workers become prone to attacks by looters especially in the night hours as they have to work late in factories, even many students have fallen to them. The women folk also don’t feel safe in our areas and many become target of anti social elements”, said a student from Dhandari who was recently attacked by miscreants near his home who snatched his mobile and five hundred rupees during broad daylight. “For us security is a major issue and we will vote for candidate who will address this issue”.
 
 Many migrant voters list better roads and proper disposal of garbage as major issues for them.
 
 “The roads in our areas are in such dilapidated condition that we need to replace tyres and shockers of our vehicles frequently. For last many years I haven’t seen much change in the roads in our areas even as people do talk of Ludhiana being declared as Smart City. We will vote smartly this time around to bring a change in the basic infrastructure in our areas”, said Manish Kumar, a factory worker from Gyaspura area, which has high concentration of migrant voters. He added that apart from roads disposal of garbage is a major problem in these areas as it poses a health risk.
 
 Many voters in the migrant inhabited areas say that they also face problems in getting the caste certificate made.
 
 “I faced lot of problem in getting caste certificate made which will help my four children in getting scholarship in future. Even as I had brought proof of my caste from my native state of Bihar but authorities were not too willing to grant me the certificate. It was only after I approached a political leader that they made the same”, said Sanjay Kumar of Sherpur who originally belongs to Samastipur in Bihar. “Not everyone from our state is lucky like me and they do have to face problems to get the document. It is a big issue for a lot of migrant voters”.
 
 “In almost all the constituencies in Ludhiana and Sahnewal, migrant voters do constitute a sizeable number of voters. Among the constituencies where migrant voters form sizeable number of voters, Ludhiana (South) has around 45% votes of migrant community whereas in Ludhiana East also has 30% of such voters. Sahnewal constituency too has high number of migrant voters”, said Shamsher Ahmed, who originally hails from Bihar and is Chairman of Inter State Welfare Council who is maintaining a watch on election process. “Apart from issues of lack of sanitation, water supply, bad roads, a major poll issue is non stoppage of express trains at Dhandari Kalan from where the areas inhabited by Migrants are nearby. Only two general trains from Bihar Jan sewa and Jana Nayak have stoppages at Dhandari Station”. 
 
