BHOPAL: Ahead of assembly elections, intense lobbying has begun for a party ticket from the coveted   with leaders, some of them openly claiming themselves as the successor of  , the sitting MLA. 

 Gaur, however, rubbished the demand saying there is ‘no tradition of making successor’ in the BJP and he would contest election again from the same seat.
 
 Taking a cue from the 75-year age bar, senior leader and chairman of MP Tourism, Tapan Bhaumik claimed last week he was the right person to get a party ticket from Govindpura assembly constituency as he had worked in the area for long time.
 
 “I am the right person for the Govindpura seat as I have worked there for last two decades. Given a chance, I will also win election with a clear margin, “ claimed Bhaumik while talking to reporters last week.
 
 Another senior leader and Bhopal mayor Alok Sharma claimed on Wednesday he had been working with Gaur for last 25 years in the area as a dedicated party worker. During his tenure as the mayor, he also initiated several development works in the region, so there is no harm in claiming ticket from Govindpura seat.
 
 “I am the real successor of Babulal Gaur. I worked for him and participated in election campaign since I joined politics. Even sometimes, I had to push his scooter during the tour of the constituency,” recalled Alok Sharma during inauguration of new office in ward 67, on Wednesday. Sharma was accompanied by minister of state for cooperatives (Independent charge) Vishwas Sarang. 
 
 Gaur, who had been demanding a ticket for his daughter in-law and former mayor Krishna Gaur made his intention clear that he would contest election from the same seat after the state leadership cold-shouldered the demand in 2013 assembly polls. Later, when he was removed as cabinet minister in keeping with the 75-year age bar criteria, he announced to remain active in politics and nurture the seat as long as he can.
 
 Recent developments indicated many from the party set eyes on the coveted seat despite signals that he would not like to budge from his decision.
 
 
