MUMBAI: PTA United Forum had filed a   in “unorganized“  .

  and  , lawyers for the forum, pointed out to a bench of   and   on May 5 that the latest notification issued by the road ministry defined school buses as only those vehicles with at least14 seats, including the driver.
 
 Schools, PTAs and vehicle owners must enter into a common standard agreement before the transport authority can grant a permit for a vehicle to operate as a school bus. The agreement specifies responsibility and accountablity of bus operators and routes to be displayed, but the petitioners complained that autos and small vehicles sometimes run without any such agreement.
 
 The PIL also complained that the state had modified its rules to grant permits to light motor vehicles (LMVs), including 12-seater mini-vans, to ply as "school buses".
 
 The argument in court was that the Centre's rules have predominance over state transport rules. The PIL also said that even buses belonging to MSRTC or BEST, which ferry schoolchildren, must comply with the safety guidelines.
 
 The bench directed the concerned state departments to redress the grievances raised and to “take proper care to stop such vehicles which do not come within the common standard agreement guidelines“.
 
 Advocate Jamshed Mistry for activist Indrani Malkani, a member of the state-appointed committee to look into school bus safety issues, said later, "The import of the order is that henceforth no bus with fewer than 14 seats may be issued a permit as a 'school bus'." An official from the transport commissioner's office said on Thursday that many vehicles with under 13 seats had got permits to ferry children, including vans. "No decision has been taken to ban the operation of these vehicles so far."
 
 A transport expert said it was not possible to run only bu ses with a minimum of 14 seats as many localities are "inaccessible to larger vehicles".
 
 A senior RTO official said that if private vehicles being used to drop students have a school bus agreement, "such a vehicle can be compelled to follow all safety rules, appoint experienced drivers, have proper seating facilities, display route maps, install fire extinguisher, grilles on windows, et cetera."
 
