As governments, hotels and malls play contortionists and bend rules and shift entries to escape the SC’s highway  , stand-up comics   &   suggest ingenious jugaads around the 500m rule. 

 "If Gurgaon can be renamed Gurugram, why can’t we rename metre as centimetre?” asks one. The other replies, "Nahin yaar, sabse easy hai, mummy ko khada kar do jab Excise wale measurement lene aaye. Woh convince kar hi lengi – ‘Puttar, raje, maan le meri baat, 500 metre se zyada hi hai, 10-20 upar neeche to chalta hi hai’."
 
 Restaurateurs, hoteliers and even the government are losing sleep over the  , and bending over backwards to get around the 500 metre rule. The capital’s party enthusiasts are worried about the fate of their favourite joints, too. As the Excise and pub owners try to figure out the motarable distance, Amit and Maheep add their own interpretation of the 500 metre distance and suggest some jugaads.
 
 
 
 Amit says, "Since the authorities believe ki 500m mein utar jayegi, toh parking 600m door rakhte hain. Ab agar meri liquor Cyber Hub mein mil rahi hai, aur mujhe gaadi   mein park karni pade, toh phir mujhe toh chadhi hi nahin hai!"
 
 
 
 The stand-up comics think that states denotifying highways is a brilliant idea. Maheep says, "Haryana mein toh shehar hi theke ke kinare basaya hai. First they finalised the location of thekas, and then decided to establish townships. Ab highways shehar ke bahar kar dene chahiye. Jise highway pe gaadi chalani hai, drive out of the city. Theka toh ji yahin rahega. Highway ko hum gali bulayenge."
 
 
 
 Amit says, "See, 500m in an SUV and 500m on a is not same. Toh iss pe bhi toh depend karta hai ki aadmi kis vehicle se aaya hai. The distance formula should be different for different vehicles. Koi toh justice ho!” He has another question about the ‘motarable distance’. “If you drink and you don’t have a car, you are not a danger? Joh car nahin afford kar sakta, jiske paas DTC ya Metro ka pass hai, he can drink, right?" asks Amit.
 
 
 
 
  
  Stand-up comics Amit Tandon and Maheep Singh decode the 500m rule for DT (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Maheep has another idea – change the unit of measurement. He says, "Why can’t we change centimetre to metre? And we can claim that in the ancient times they used to call centimetre metre."
 
 
 
 “There is no need to consider ‘as the crow flies’ or ‘as the fish swims’ or ‘as the tortoise crawls’,” says Amit and adds that the order can be implemented by building a tunnel! “Gurgaon-Dilli ke saare piyakkar ko saath lekar aate hain aur unko bolte hai tunnel banao warna liquor nahin milegi. Do din mein bann jayega. Aur uss tunnel mein sirf chakna milega, no sharab.” 
 
 Maheep even has a start-up idea – “How about mobile thekas? Agar lage ki 500m ke andhar hai toh thoda drive kar ke aage le ke chale jao. Let’s do a start-up!”
 
 
 
 Amit thinks that Kejriwal, who has been silent on the issue, will soon proclaim ki sab scam hai ji. He says, "For six months we will be arguing kisne 500 metre sahi naapa. We will deploy three-four different agencies and then Kejriwal will say, ‘Sab mile hue hain’. But it will create more government jobs for sure. We will need people to measure, verify, file review petition, resolve issues.” And since we have an opportunity to create so many jobs, Maheep suggests, “Let’s just create a Ministry of Measurement!'
 
 
 
 After exhausting their list of jugaads, Maheep comes up with a final solution. He says, “Yaar, kuch kaam na kare toh maa ko bula lete hain. Unhone joh keh diya, woh keh diya. Kya sarkaar, kya Excise, sabko samjha degi. Woh convince kar hi lengi – ‘Puttar, raje, maan le meri baat, 500m se zyada hi hai, 10-20 upar neeche toh chalta hai’.”
 
 
 
 "If they think that a distance of 500m will deter people from drinking, that is underestimating the willpower of people who enjoy their drinks," says Amit. He suggests that restaurants can try serving liquor only to people who come with chauffeurs. "Then there will be less drunken driving and more demand for chauffeurs," he says.
 
 
 
