Bengaluru: Serving humanity is their only mantra — be it through imparting education, providing free medical services to the needy or making orphans and the elderly feel loved. 

 Marking their New Year, Nowruz, around 350 members of the Baha’i community came together on Monday to spread the message of love and oneness. Observed on the spring equinox – when the sun crosses the celestial equator resulting in equal day and night — Nowruz also marks the end of the 19 days of fasting, which begins on March 1. 
 
 Radha Parikh, a professor at IIIT, Bengaluru, said: “I embraced this religion in 1989 to evoke a sense of unity among all. It believes that all prophets are from the same god, who shows us only one way — the path of humanity. We fast for 19 days to empathize with hungry souls who aren’t able to afford two scores meals a day.”
 
 “Before fasting, we celebrate intercalary days on the last four days of February, when we spend time feasting, visiting orphanages, old-age homes and slums. When the fasting begins, we eat only after the sun sets. On the gracious occasion of Nowruz, we break our fast,” she said.
 
 Baha’is have one common goal — transforming one’s inner self. It all began with Bahaullah, the Glory of God, their Iranian prophet. “God always wants to work with us. However, we are blind and deaf to the almighty’s ways. We become greedy, cruel and intolerant; we kill people and pollute nature. The Baha’is teach one and all to open their eyes, come out of the shackles of superstition, ignorance and prejudice, and serve humanity to work alongside god,” said Dr Sudhkaran K, a resident of Kengeri who became a follower of this faith when he was a PU student.
 
 Around 1,000 members of the community living in Bengaluru are either engaged in teaching needy children or organizing virtue development programmes for them, running free health camps for the poor, feeding hungry mouths and preserving the environment.
 
 Dr Ahmed Jaber Ansari, a cosmetologist, said: “On Nowruz, children and adults perform skits and dances with moral lessons. We sing spiritual songs and bhajans. Since 1990, we have conducted several free health camps in Tumakuru, Mandya, Belagavi, Kolar, Hubballi and Bengaluru.”
 
 
