CHENNAI: With a large number of hotels and restaurants facing closure for want of mandatory   facilities, as per the February 10 judgment of the Madras high court, the first bench has now decided to expedite hearing in the case.

 The first bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice   agreed to hear the case on Tuesday (April 4) instead of the originally scheduled date of April 13, after senior counsel P S Raman mentioned the matter on Monday. 
 
 Immediately after the court convened for the day, the senior counsel mentioned it and said hotels and restaurants were being issued showcause notices and closure orders irrespective of the fact that they still had their licence period.
 
 It all started with a PIL filed by S Raghu of Vyasarpadi seeking closure of restaurants/eateries if they did not provide adequate parking space and fire safety measures. 
 
 After realising that a series of orders and warnings during the past two years of litigation did not have the desired effect, the then first bench headed by the then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (since elevated to the Supreme Court as its judge) ruled on February 10 that the progress report filed by authorities revealed that the hotels and restaurants lacking adequate parking facilities had been taking the court and officials for a ride. Even its indulgence, permitting the eateries to have valet parking facilities had not been followed in spirit, the bench pointed out.
 
 Though its intention was not to close down such errant hotels, restaurants and eateries, “it now appears that these eating places have prima facie tried to take advantage of the indulgence we had shown, by not doing the needful, and thus will have to face the consequence,” the bench said.
 
 “The report shows that the hotels are taking everyone for a ride. Either there is no parking facilities, whether by valet parking or otherwise, or the spaces are inadequate,” the then bench had said, adding: “We make it clear that if there are no adequate parking spaces available, the authorities shall forthwith shut down the restaurants, and only when then provide parking spaces, would they be entitled to function.”
 
 However, after authorities started issuing notices and orders on errant hotels, the Chennai Hotels Association got impleaded as party to the proceedings and sought to modify the ruling. Claiming that the enforcing authorities had misconstrued and misread the judgment, the association said the Second Master Plan had suggested different parking requirements for different restaurants based on the size and category of the restaurants.
 
 The master plan required parking space proportionate to floor area and not based on number of tables seating capacity, it said, adding that the authorities misunderstood the court order and issued notices even to small eateries of 500sqft or less. Also, the Second Master Plan's parking criterion should apply only to proposed new restaurants applying for new trade licences, it said.
 
 
