THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government will   on January 26 in  . The resurvey will not be an easy task despite the use of   as both districts have their own core issues that need to be sorted out for a  .

 While Kasaragod houses one of the highest number of non-surveyed villages, Idukki needs to finish the process in only 26 more villages. But the trouble before authorities would be to weed out bogus titles before the land is given legality by entering them in the basic tax register after the resurvey.
 
 Of the 128 villages in Kasaragod, resurvey was possible in only 11 villages (8%) though the exercise began on October 6, 1965 with a deadline of seven years. “With the full use of manpower and technology, we are expecting that the resurvey will be completed in five years,” said revenue minister E Chandrasekharan.
 
 Sources cite that the main challenge at Kasaragod and northern Kerala in general (including Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode and Malappuram) would arise because of the absence of a concept called thandaper.
 
 “The thandaper register gives a clear idea of who owns the land and to what extent. But in most cases in these districts, those who are transacting the land, register it and they are concerned about the land tax payment. They hardly bothered about completing the mutation. When resurvey is done using the data in the field measurement book, many of the transactions will be absent and the sub-division sketch will be absent, and the ownership will be conferred on the erstwhile owner and not present owner,” sources said.
 
 In Idukki, of the 66 villages, resurvey was completed in 37. And of the 29 remaining villages, resurvey has been partially completed in 16. “According to the directive of the high court, the resurvey in Idukki has to be completed by August. So resurvey activities will begin in Idukki simultaneously,” Chandrasekharan said.
 
 But, resurvey in Idukki is easier said than done as the remaining villages are those that are known for encroachments. In Udumbanchola taluk, Santhanpara, Chinnakanal, Bison Valley and Rajakkad villages, all the villages of Peermade taluk (Vagamon, Manchumala, Peruvanthanam, Kumily and Peermade), villages in Devikulam taluk (Kanan Devan Hill, Munnar, Edamalakudy) are yet to be resurveyed. All these places are infamous for bogus titles and widespread encroachments.
 
