PANAJI: In March 1943, Goa got its taste of World War II action when a group of British commandos blew up four Axis ships — the German Ehrenfels, Drachenfels and Braunfels, and the Italian Anfora, off the Mormugao coast. 

 The ships sank and the survivors from the German and Italian ships swam ashore, with some of them remaining in Goa. The last physical remnants of that tryst with history could now be lost for posterity with   ( ) proposing to scrap the World War II shipwrecks that have lain undisturbed in Goa’s coastal waters for decades.
 
 As MPT goes ahead with its expansion and development plans, the port has come up with a proposal to salvage four shipwrecks, including wreck pieces on the seabed. The wrecks include the wreck plates of Ehrenfels and Brownfels, which sank at the Vasco bay inner anchorage.
 
 The other shipwrecks that MPT wants scrapped are MV Mother Pearl and M.V. Mariner IV which sank relatively recently.
 
 Camouflaged as innocuous merchant vessels, the German ships Ehrenfels, Drachenfels and Braunfels, and the Italian ship Anfora, were transmitting critical information about British ships through coded radio transmitters to Axis listening posts during World War II. The information used to be relayed to German U-boats that then attacked British ships that sailed out of Mumbai out into the  .
 
 “Mormugao Port Trust, Goa, is in process of removing all the wrecks present within the port limits. Once the contract is finalized and awarded, the work is expected to be completed in two months time,” a source at MPT said.
 
 According to the proposal, the shipwrecks will be removed completely and shifted to a location identified behind Berth 11 of the port. The port is considering under water cutting of the four shipwrecks to facilitate easier removal.
 
 While scientists and experts were cautious in their reaction to the developments, a scientist at the   did stress that shipwrecks do provide a micro-ecosystem for marine ecology.
 
 “Shipwrecks are often shelters for fish, especially for breeding. In Goa we see a lot of local fishermen heading to shipwrecks to fish. But this decision may have been taken with the port’s development projects in mind,” said a marine scientist on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The port will also carry out an independent underwater magnetometer survey at the existing wreck sites to ensure that no trace of the shipwrecks are left behind.
 
 The magnetometer survey is required to certify that no wreck pieces are present either on the seabed or embedded in the seabed, an official at MPT explained.
 
 
