CHANDIGARH: A 40-year-old notorious gangster was allegedly shot dead in  , Hisar, on Saturday night, following a tip off by one of his confidants. There are apprehensions that the murder could trigger a fresh gangwar in Hisar.

 With six bullets shot at him from a close range, gangster Pradeep Jamawadi, died on the spot. His friend Chandarjit aka   and his mother   suffered bullet injuries too. They were rushed to a private hospital.
 
 Police have started investigations after registering the case of murder and under the Arms Act at City police station. His namesake Pradeep alias Kala, who is a known close associate of the deceased, was present on the spot when the incident took place. He had allegedly come to meet the deceased to discuss an issue related to some liquor vend in the city.
 
 It is alleged that later he asked Jamawadi to accompany him outside the house. The   grab of the cameras installed at the house revealed that as the two came out of house, three persons, who were allegedly waiting for a signal in the nearby park, walked towards them. They pumped bullets into Pradeep from three different directions.
 
 Meanwhile, hearing the noise, Savitiri and Chandrajit came out of the house. Both of them also sustained bullet injuries. The assailants as well as Kala, fled from the spot.
 
 According to information, the deceased had been sentenced in a murder case and was out of Hisar jail on parole for the last three months. He was living with his mother Savitiri Devi and brother Mandeep Singh in the Urban Estate area. Pradeep was known to have turned to criminal activities at 23 years of age during the period of prohibition in Hansi as he was one of the main suppliers of illicit liquor. Later, he had turned into a hardcore criminal in the area.
 
 Hisar SP   said, “It was around 10.30pm we got the information about incident. Our teams have started the investigations. Few teams are conducting raids on the possible hideouts of Kala as well. We will know more once Kala is arrested.’’ She expressed ignorance about Kala being wanted in any criminal case presently.
 
