LUCKNOW:   and   leaders may have reached the Banaras Hindu University and even courted arrest in their bid to join the girl students' tirade against harassment on campus, it was Mayawati-led   which remained conspicuous by absence from the spot. Though   issued a statement terming UP government's attitude towards   students “arrogant", she did not send even a district level party functionary to the university.Varanasi district president Deep Chandra Chaudhary confirmed to TOI that there was no instruction from the party high command to go to the university and meet students. Political experts said while SP and Congress have been trying to connect with the youth, essentially university students, BSP's absence from the scene is surprising.

 Earlier, Mayawati had stayed away from JNU after its president Kanhaiya Kumar was booked on charges of sedition.She also avoided going to Hyderabad University where Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula committed suicide, alleging harassment by university authorities in 2016. It was only after Dalit representatives made hue and cry that she sent her MP Veer Singh to the university. “BSP does not have a student wing, which makes Mayawati uncertain she would receive support from students,“ said former head of political science department of Lucknow university , S K Dwivedi.
 
 He added that it was actually a big flaw on the part of BSP , which claims to look beyond its core Dalit vote base. “The opinions of students reflect the future political discourse and this is where Mayawati and her party is missing out,“ he said. BSP sour ces said the party did contemplate to come up with its own student wing but plan was drop ped following Mayawati's refusal.
 
 Analysts say that Mayawati's visits have largely been driven by caste-based incidents that ostensibly affected her core vote base of Dalits and MBCs. The Dalit leader, went all the way to Saharanpur which was hit by violence, following caste conflagration involving Dalits and upper caste Thakurs. Last year, months before UP assembly elections, Mayawati had stepped out of the comfort of her bungalow to reach Una, where Dalit youths were flogged by cow vigilantes.In 2014, right after her party's humiliating defeat in Lok Sabha polls, Mayawati visited Badaun, where two MBC girls were raped and murdered.
 
