Venturing out in the summers can weigh a person down. The rising heat affects your overall health, in some cases, caused Heat Stroke too! Dramatically elevated body temperature caused Heat stroke and is often accompanied by dehydration. With the recent change in weather patterns, maintaining a proper diet, consuming the right amount of liquids and using adequate sun protection is of great importance. Here are some tips to keep you cool this summer and avoid that dreaded Heat Stroke.

 
 Drink enough water; on an average one should drink at least 2L of water in a day. Carry a bottle of water when outdoors. Additionally, Coconut water, vegetable and fruit juices can be sipped on during the day. 
 
 
  Use sunscreen that has SPF 30 or higher, with UVA and UVB ray protection. Apply liberally to all exposed skin, at least 15 minutes before you plan to step outdoors. Wear a wide brimmed hat and sunglasses whenever possible.
 
 
 Eating fresh fruits and vegetables is one of the simplest ways to reduce the heat from your body. Eat healthy salads, fruits and vegetables which boast of high water content. This also increases your water intake. Carry a bowl-full of grapes or berries while travelling outdoors.
 
 
 Alcohol or sodas can make fluid leave your body faster, causing severe dehydration or heat strokes during the summer. Avoid consuming alcohol and opt for other cooler beverages or sports beverages instead.
 
 
  Cold showers increase the blood flow and are best for cooling off after being outdoors for long. It controls the nauseous feeling one experiences during the summer and also reduces the chances of skin rashes and outbreaks. Have a bath at least twice with cold water.
 
 
 Light colored clothes reflect heat where as dark colored clothes absorb heat, making you feel all the more uncomfortable. Cotton and linen fabrics are cool and comfortable; avoid synthetic fabrics as much as possible. Avoid wearing tight clothes as it restricts air circulation.
 
 
  Avoid being outdoors during the hottest hours of the day, i.e. 12 noon-3 pm. Relax, stay inside or under shade. Temperatures are at maximum and can suck all the energy from your body in no time. Avoid working intensively outdoors during this time. 
 
 
 The moment someone starts experiencing throbbing headaches, nausea, palpitations or vomiting sensation, start hydrating them however possible. They may be having a heatstroke. If you happen to be with or come across someone who is going through a stroke immediately take them to a cool place , hydrate them , if they have fainted try cooling their body with water and then rush them to the nearest hospital. Hyperthermia can be very fatal if not promptly treated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
