HYDERABAD: The   that was constituted in 1988 to prevent   in   and   has become a   and has been defunct for the last two years with not even the chairman being appointed to act as the chief judge. 

 Functioning from Hyderabad, and intended to be an efficient weapon in the hands of those who want to fight notorious elements grabbing public properties, this common court had been handling increasing cases of land grabbing from the city prior to the bifurcation, particularly from Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and other prime localities. 
 
 Following bifurcation, the court was placed in the tenth schedule of the AP Reorganisation Act and the two states were supposed to set up their own courts. Telangana decided not to set up a special court handling land grabbing cases, and instead, opted for the district courts to deal with such cases. It discouraged revenue officers from filing any cases in the special court for the last two years.
 
 For Andhra Pradesh, setting up a court in Hyderabad to deal with land grabbing cases in the residuary state does not make much sense. Sources in AP legal department said that if the TDP government had any sense of urgency, it could have set up such courts in either Vijayawada or Amaravati. 
 
 Now as many 70 employees working with the special court handling land grabbing cases in Hyderabad have been getting their salaries for not doing anything for the last two years, though there have been instances where the chairman, a retired HC judge, took suo motu notice of land grabbing brought to his notice by the media, booked cases against such grabbers and called for records from the concerned revenue authorities.
 
 Judicial sources claimed that with the special court being dysfunctional, there was no record of how many land grabbing cases were actually happening. They said they did not know how many thousands of acres were grabbed in the last two years in the twin states, adding that the special court, which was set up by then chief minister NT Rama Rao, before becoming defunct was handling more than 700 cases with more than two thirds of them pertaining to Telangana. 
 
 
