NAGPUR:   were baffled on Monday when they got a tip-off about a   rafter of an abandoned godown’s roof, with some bones scattered on the ground below, at a desolate spot near Koradi Naka. With almost no clues to start with, the cops have registered a case of accidental death, and plan to send the bones for special   to the   of   (GMCH).

 There was a flutter in the city police, prompting even senior officers to rush to Koradi, after the skull was found hanging with a rope made by joining the power cable of an iron and the drawstrings of a pyjama in the abandoned godown. Since the godown did not have a compound wall or even doors to restrict access, the cops are clueless regarding the person who used the premises to commit suicide, or kill a person, or merely adopt a unique means to destroy evidence. The bones scattered around the place had to be assembled by the cops in the presence of a special team of forensic experts.
 
 It’s learnt that government owned stock of grains used to be stored in the godown several years ago. Then, the godown fell out of use and the premises were abandoned. The cops are now trying to ascertain who owns the place.
 
 The cops have many theories about how the head was separated from the rest of the body. It is possible that an assailant hung the head after decapitating it from the body. However, the body could also have fallen to the ground as it decomposed after the person committed suicide. The cops also feel that stray dogs and pigs had eaten some flesh from the body, in view of the condition of the bones.
 
 A police officer, who visited the bizarre crime scene, claimed many ragged clothes were strewn all over the place, making it very difficult for the cops to ascertain which may have belonged to the deceased. The place, which had weeds growing around, is unlikely to have been frequented even by beggars or vagabonds.
 
 Police sources said that an informer first alerted some cops from Koradi police station regarding the skull hanging from the roof. After verification, the Koradi cops alerted senior police officers.
 
 Senior officers like DCP Abhinash Kumar, ACP Ramesh Tayade and others visited the place. The adjoining police stations and those in rural jurisdiction were also alerted. The missing persons complaints are being scanned to see if the deceased can be identified. The crime branch too has been pressed into action.
 
