BHOPAL: The state government has admitted delay in enacting a law to regulate school fees in private institutions and assured to implement the Act in next academic session. School education minister Vijay Shah said the government is serious to bring MP Private   to check hike pattern in school fees after due consultation.

 “Our department is serious on the issue and will follow directions of Supreme Court and Madhya Pradesh High Court (MPHC). But we would like to study every aspect of it before implementing any such law in order to avoid legal complications,” Shah told the House while replying to a call attention motion moved by Congress MLA Jitu Patwari, on Friday.
 
 Patwari and BJP MLA from Indore Sudershan Gupta asked the government whether the new law would be enacted from 2017-18 academic session. Debate on school fee hike had been witnessed in the past as the government prepared the first draft to clamp down on the practice of arbitrarily hiking fees by some private institutions eight years ago.
 
 Shah confirmed the House that the bill incorporating proposals of fees regulation committee would be tabled soon and the final draft of the proposed Act will be prepared after comparing fee structures of all private schools. He, however, denied government was lenient in controlling arbitrary decision taken by school management. 
 
 “We directed all private schools affiliated to CBSE and MP Board to submit their fee structures of past three years to check hike pattern. The final draft has been prepared. Getting the bill passed in upcoming session of the state assembly is on our priority list,” he said.
 
 Quoting fee structure, the minister revealed several schools hiked the fee from 10% to a shocking 33% in past three years.
 
 “This is true. Some private schools have increased school fee arbitrarily. DPS Indore hiked fee up to 12%, 13% and 23% in last three years. Similarly, Shishukunj School hiked 15%, 16% and 33%. But,   in Bhopal effected an average hike of 8-10%, St Mary School hiked 10%,  , Kolar hiked 9-10% in three years, which could not be dubbed as a steep hike,” Shah said.
 
 He said the government is making efforts to control hike in fees and ensuring quality of education in these institutions is not affected. The government has formed a special committee under General Administration Department (GAD) in 2015 to regulate issues related to fee and other problems in private schools.
 
 “In October 2016, the committee submitted a final regulation plan to the department, which has been forwarded to a committee of senior secretaries on January 6, 2017 for review and approval of the proposed law. The committee suggested some changes, which were effected after legal consultation. The proposal will now be forwarded to the state cabinet for approval and will be tabled in the assembly for enacting the law,” Shah told the House. Shah reiterated the government was trying to enact the regulation in from next academic session 2017-18. 
 
 BJP MLA from Indore Sudershan Gupta said the current academic session came to an end with many schools holding their final examination in March and April. If the government fails to get the bill passed in the assembly in current budget session, it would be further delayed and could not be implemented in the academic session 2018-19. Government should clarify its stand, he demanded. 
 
 Congress leaders said it was in 2008 a group of parents urged the school education department to enact a law to regulate the ‘exorbitant’ fee structure.
 
 Several ministers in the past committed to get the fees regulation bill passed. In May 2015, during the declaration of board results, former school education minister Paras Jain had announced fee regulation committee to enact the law. In March 2016, minister of state for school education Deepak Joshi said the Act would be enacted and implemented in the current academic session, but to no avail, they alleged.
 
 
