THANE: On the occasion of International  , which is celebrated on May 12 of every year, to mark the contributions nurses make to the society, TOI speaks to the   in the city who believe that the advent of technology in the health care industry has evolved the role of modern day nurses. They also feel that modern technology is one of the reasons they are no longer considered as primary care givers. Nurses these days are more involved in research and are undertaking theoretical training sessions. 

 According to  , principal of Thane’s nursing office at  , “Previously, a nurse was said to be a shadow of the doctor. Now, that phase is gradually changing. Their importance is being realized and highlighted by the staff in all hospitals. In the 1950s – 60s, after a maximum three weeks of training anyone would be hired as a nurse. There were no educational qualifications required. But today, given the demand for trained nurses and increasing prospects nurse professionals can even attain a P.H.D.”
 
 “It is the nurse’s duty to educate the entire hospital staff about the rules and regulation to be followed with regard to self-sanitation and hygiene. Once a week, the nursing professionals get together and attend training sessions wherein discussion of practical cases take place,” says the nursing staff of a city-based hospital.
 
 It’s not that nursing is becoming only a broader profession, but a deeper one too. Technology certainly has made the once cumbersome activities, procedures quite simple, but has contributed to a degree of stress too. While dealing with tech-savvy patients who think they know everything about their ailments, nurses have to be extra careful. They have to act as an informative guide. Modern day nurses also have to acquaint themselves with the new surgeries, procedures, fancy gadgets and the latest technology before assisting doctors in the operation theatre. 
 
 “Unlike before, there are machines now to monitor the vital signs of patients. We did everything manually. Also, we used to write three pages of report per patient and document every record. Our learning was mostly practical with lesser emphasis on theory,” says Sushama Pongurlekar, a retired matron at Railway hospital, Mumbai.
 
