GAYA: Union civil aviation minister   feels that only a good airport cannot attract foreign tourists. 

 Talking to media persons at Bodh   on Monday, Raju said, “We have to keep pace with global trends in the tourism and aviation sectors pertaining to the popularity of wide aircraft.”
 
 Raju said as per his information,   lacked in infrastructure and as such, despite the place’s international importance, the tourist footfall did not match its potential.
 
 He also regretted the inadequacy of good quality hotels at Bodh Gaya. “There is not even one 5 star hotel at Bodh Gaya,” he said. However, he had all praise for tourist-related facilities in Goa and said the world class facilities, including a congenial atmosphere, were required for the growth of Bodh Gaya as a much sought-after international tourist destination.
 
 He also referred to the increasing redundancy of the narrow-body aeroplanes and their replacement with wide aircraft. “We, too, have to accept the challenge and make airports compatible with wide aircraft,” he added.
 
 On the runway length at Gaya airport, he said it was not enough to accommodate wide planes. Tour operators also prefer big aircraft for reasons of operational economy. Gaya airport runway, as of now, is 2,286 metres long and an addition of at least 500 metres is required to make the airport compatible with wide-body planes.
 
 The runway expansion programme was held up on account of land issue. Around 100 acre more land was required to extend the runway by another 500 metres. For several years, there was a virtual tug of war between the   (AAI) and   government over the land issue. Whereas AAI wanted free land, state government wanted the AAI to foot the land bill. Ultimately, a compromise was reached on sharing the land price on 50:50 basis.
 
 The landowners subsequently put spanner by demanding compensation at an exorbitant rate and other benefits like jobs. The stand-off between the state government and landowners continues.
 
 The Union minister has reportedly directed the airport authorities to go for rainwater harvesting and execute the solar energy option. He was told that the Bihar government had yet to frame a policy on sharing power generated through solar plates. The airport officials favour sale/sharing of excess energy to  .
 
 The minister also directed the airport officials to install illuminated national flag at a height of 100 feet.
 
 
