PUNE: The sexual assault on a four-year-old girl by a   driver has been a wake-up call for the administration, which has decided to draw comprehensive school   guidelines afresh. 

 CCTV cameras, female attendants and special classes in schools regarding good touch and bad touch are already a part of the mandatory guidelines that are to be followed by all schools. However, with repeated cases of sexual assault, Regional Transport Authority chairman Saurabh Rao said they would involve the education commissioner to draw rules for schools as well for separate lessons in schools.
 
 “We will take serious cognizance of this issue as there have been several cases. We will now involve the education commissioner, who will suggest what measures can be taken from the school front on this issue. In our next meeting, the school transport committees would ensure that all the directives are followed and strict measures are taken,” Rao said, adding that the committee’s exhaustive guideline would have to be followed by all schools.
 
 Police commissioner Rashmi Shukla, chairperson of the district school committee, has insisted that there should be mandatory CCTV cameras in all school buses, which should be monitored by the school management. She also added that not one but two lady attendants should be in the bus.
 
  “It is the duty of the school transport committee of each school to ensure the directives are followed,” she told TOI.
 
 The committees meet twice a year and discuss issues and adhere to the guidelines issued. Regional Transport Officer B I Ajri said it is necessary to make the rules more stringent. “While action can be taken on our front to cancel permits and disqualify the driver, we need more thorough checks to ensure all rules are followed by the committees.” He also added that parents must inform the school authorities or police if they find any violation.
 
 School authorities agree that the schools should take all due cognizance of security measures. 
 
 Jyotsana Mishra, principal of Blossom Public School, said that all schools should take responsibility regarding the transport and keep a check on the drivers and attendants. “We have 70 school buses and we, as a team, have taken the responsibility to ensure due care is taken in checks and there are lady attendants in the bus,” she said. The principal of another reputed school said that the onus is on the school to keep a check on this issue. 
 
 Director of Childline, Anuradha Sahasrabudhe, said children should be empowered so they can tell their parents and their teachers if they are abused. 
 
 “Empower the child to report such cases and build in them the confidence that it is not their fault. I know of cases where principals feared stigma and told the parents to change the school, while there were cases where parents were told not to report the matter. Such things should change. There should be enough sensitisation in the school as well as the drivers. Nirbhaya chits, where children were able to share their secrets in a secret box, should be re-started in schools,” she said.
 
 Parents are, understandably, worried. “We want a separate authority that will only hear the concerns of school transport. These rising cases of abuse and   are a major concern,” a parent said.
 
  She added that her five-year-old son faced abuse from a school attendant and the matter was reported to the school authority but the school told her to just change the bus instead of addressing the issue.
 
