KOCHI: Two persons died on Saturday after consuming   and six others are undergoing treatment at Kozhikode medical college hospital.

 Eight persons had consumed methylated spirit, a diluted form of  , allegedly smuggled by a security guard of Koya's Hospital, Cheruvannur, on Thursday. Three of them started showing signs of ill-health from Friday morning.
 
 But the victims or their relatives were ignorant of this until the first death occured. Balan (52) hailing from   in Chathamangalam grama panchayat breathed his last at medical college hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday morning. Kozhikode, on Saturday morning.
 
  (38), a resident of Kakkur, who allegedly smuggled methanol from the hospital also died at medical college hospital, Kozhikode, a few hours later.
 
 The condition of their friend  , admitted to the same hospital, is critical.
 
 According to excise officials, the victims consumed the methanol after cleaning a well at Malayamma AKG colony. Sandeep, who brought the methanol from hospital, offered them `something special' after the work. Six of the workers consumed the `alcohol' and returned home.
 
 It is learnt that Balan, Chekkutty and Sandeep, who were neighbours consumed it again in the night. Though they had individually sought medical care on Friday after experiencing uneasiness, they did not suspect the role of alcohol behind their condition.
 
 “Balan's family members also did not suspect anything owing to his drinking habits. They took him to the medical college on Saturday morning, as he was found unconscious,“ said a police official.
 
 Sandeep and Chekkutty were also shifted to the MCH on Friday morning. Five more persons -Haridasan (48), Velayudhan (65) and Suresh (45), Vinod (38) and Shaju 40) -were also hospitalised by the excise team, said a statement by A Vijayan, additional excise commissioner.
 
 A few others, who had earlier consumed alcohol with Sandeep also underwent medical examination following the tragedy.
 
 Officials with Koya's hospital claimed that they had licence to store and use methanol and methylated surgical spirit for medical purpose. “We use methanol for laboratory and surgical purposes,“ said an official with Koya's Hospital. According to him they store a bottle containing 250 ml methanol in the causality for emergency purposes and Sandeep, who was a security guard on duty near the casualty, might have stolen the bottle from there.
 
 The remaining quantity is stored in sterile area where people do not have access, the hospital authorities claimed.
 
 The police have booked a case of unnatural death following the incident and is probing whether the hospital has licence to store methanol and how it reached the hands of Sandeep.
 
