Mumbai: As a generalist standing at the threshold of your career, are you worried that while the world is talking about specialisations in fields like data science, machine learning and analytics, you don’t stand a chance? Well, this may come as a surprise but hiring experts said a large number of companies today are actually looking for   at entry levels.

 A generalist is a person who has the aptitude and skills which can be applied in a variety of different fields whereas a specialist is one who takes up a certain subject matter of a larger field and gains expertise in the same. Generalists, at some point, can become   by upgrading their skills and rise up the hierarchy, but companies are keen to bring on board generalists who can be moulded into specialists.
 
 Paul Dupuis, MD & CEO,  , said, “A decade ago, specialists were in demand, but today, companies want generalists. The   degree which was extremely unpopular is now in demand. This is because companies today are looking for trainable people.”
 
 Rituparna Chakraborty, executive VP & co-founder,  , said, “While earlier at the time of hiring one would lay emphasis on specific qualifications — at the entry level —employers are focusing more on cognitive abilities than on specialisation. Liberal arts students have an edge in this new world because they are taught not to conform — to challenge facts, to have divergent view points, to seek solutions rather than prescribe one.” Given, the future of employment lies in one’s ability to create work rather than find a job, this could become the strong foundation each youth needs in the days to come.”
 
 In some sectors like pharma, where there is a quality assurance requirement, specialists are in demand, but across retail, FMCG and infrastructure, Dupuis said companies are ready to hire generalists at entry level and even at the second stage of hiring. “It’s easier to train generalists than specialists. Also, with mis-hiring costs rising to anywhere between 5-7 times annual salary, companies do not want to take that chance by hiring a wrong person,” said Dupuis.
 
 Chakraborty said an important trend that TeamLease has been noticing in the IT sector for almost over two years now has been around their reluctance towards hiring engineers while they remained open to hiring graduates at similar salary brackets. “At some level, I felt the industry was feeling restricted with the lack of flexibility that came in with hiring engineers. It was coming in the way of their adaptability as the business realities were changing around them,” said Chakraborty.
 
 The three most in-demand   are sales, customer service and logistics. Each of these have a basic requirement of an undergraduate or a graduate in any stream so that the learnability quotient is high. “70% of all entry-level formal job growth at this point comes from these three functions. Over the past five years, the figure has moved from about 45-50% to 70%,” said Chakraborty. 
 
 Some experts, however, believe while generalists may have wider array of jobs to choose from, these at times can be loosely defined roles. This may increase the job insecurity as replacing one generalist with another would be far easier. Also, the debate between generalists versus specialists is to a large extent dependent on the company. Thammaiah B N, MD, Kelly Services India, said: “A startup might require an HR person as a generalist as other than talent acquisition, they might be expected to look into aspects of payroll, employee engagement and organisational development. The need for a specialist also is dependent on the scale of work and the organisation’s intent.” 
 
 We see typical operations roles being handled by specialists as they need to understand the function thoroughly to bring in process improvements and ensure work is done optimally. We also see specialists where the emphasis is more on the process, know-how and tools. For eg, finance & accounting, design engineering and analytics.”
 
 A key advantage for those opting for a specialist career is the ability to earn more money. “Organisations usually have far fewer specialists and rely a lot on their insight and expertise. This gives specialists the power to participate in key aspects of business and emerge as thought leaders in their area of expertise, thus securing their positions within the organisation structure. Externally as well, this strengthens their career prospects and opens up different opportunities in the field,” said Thammaiah.
 
 Another stream of thought provides equal weightage to both generalists as well as specialists. With the world becoming increasingly interconnected, it will require a diverse range of people to work together and solve complex problems. With one million young people entering the workforce each month, fears of insufficient job creation is already a problem in India.
 
 
