PATNA: The   (BIADA)’s offer to allot industrial land to interested entrepreneurs has landed into a controversy as industrialists claimed a majority of the plots on offer are under litigation. Some of the industrialists also claimed that many plots with active industrial units have also been offered for fresh allotment.

 A close scrutiny of the details of land offered by BIADA on its website (http://www.biadabihar.in) revealed that more than 100 acres out of the total 197 acres of land on offer is facing litigation. In fact, the list of land on offer in every industrial area has two categories — vacant and litigated land. The land under litigation are pending at various levels, including appellate authority, Industrial Development Commissioner (IDC) and Patna high court, among others.
 
 Besides, there are industrial units like M/S Natural Dairy Pvt Ltd in  , which is still active, but the BIADA has listed them as “cancelled” or “closed” units and put them on offer.
 
 Hemant Kumar Das, managing director of Natural Dairy, claimed that BIADA simply wants to grab the land allotted to him. Das also claimed he has been successfully running his dairy plant for the past eight years. “In fact, a team from industries department inspected my plant on February 3 before releasing the next instalment of subsidy as it is a food processing unit. The total sanctioned subsidy amount is Rs1.70 crore, out of which I am still to get Rs50 lakh. Still, they have declared my plant as closed unit and offering the land for sale. How can the authorities sell off an active unit to which they are giving subsidy as well,” Das said. 
 
 Former   (BIA) vice-president Sanjay Goenka said BIADA was creating “legal mess” by trying to sell off active and litigated industrial land. “There are many units listed in the land offer documents of BIADA, which are active at present. Besides, there is no logical reason to explain how BIADA is allowing bidding for litigated land. All such cases are sure to go to the court. BIADA is creating a legal mess for itself, which would adversely affect industrialization in the state,” Goenka said. 
 
 On being asked how litigated land has been offered, a development official in BIADA said, “We are anticipating that most plots facing litigation would be cleared very soon. As far as active industrial units are concerned, most industrialists whose allotments have been cancelled or their plants have been closed, would say they were still running the units.”
 
 Industrialists are, however, irked over the BIADA move. “The state government is not interested in acquiring fresh land for industrial promotion and it still wants to create an impression that it is offering land to industrialists. Hence, BIADA is offering whatever scarce land is available with it, whether litigated or active units on that,” said Satyajit Singh, chairman of the   (PHD) Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Bihar.
 
