MADURAI: Madurai District Collector, K Veera Raghava Rao on Thursday officially announced that the rural areas of Madurai district are   free (ODF). He made the announcement in a programme titled 'Kanavu Meipadal' (Fulfilment of a dream) organised by   ( ). 

 Over last two years, DRDA has been working on the task of turning Madurai district as open defecation free with various programmes. One of the major initiative was Kanmai to Kazhiparai K2K (from water bodies to toilets), a campaign of behavioural change to take people from using water bodies to relieve themselves to using toilets. 
 
 Project director of DRDA, Rohini Ramdas said that "Kanavu Meipadal" is an event which celebrates the painstaking efforts taken by the stakeholders of "K2K Vazhikati" and Madurai DRDA over last 2 years to reach this watershed moment of presenting the resolutions passed by all 420 village panchayats declaring themselves ODF and pledging to sustain the ODF status. 
 
 DRDA took out variety of programmes to achieve this status like   campaign, special pongal campaign, postcard campaign, sanitation Mela, ODF Saturday campaign, mason training campaigns to construct toilets, beautiful toilet models, sanitation yatra,   students mobilisations, public-private partnership model, use of commuinity radio, capacity building measures like CLTS training to motivators, ODF Attendance board in schools, talking toilet, adam pidithal (Stubborn) campaign by school students, mission 21 for ODF monitoring, freedom from "jail of shit" event, health visit by doctors at villages, ODF selfie, ODF monitoring maps and many more.
 
 During the event, the panchayat passed resolutions to turn villages open defecation free were presented to district collector. 
 
 Field workers on ODF drive were honoured. The district collector also inaugurated a device, 'ODF Barometer' designed by DRDA to measure the status. 
 
 Addressing the event, district collector, K Veera Raghava Rao said that all 420 panchayats consisting 1946 villages have achieved ODF status over prolonged measures. Due to this measure, the sanitation coverage of district has escalated from 30 to 100 %, he said. 
 
 There are 3,44,592 individual household toilets covering 97 % people and rest of 3 % people in villages are facilitated to use public sanitary complexes in the villages, he said. Out of these toilets, DRDA alone facilitated 1,45,371 household toilets. He urged public to render their continuous support in maintaining ODF status of the district.
 
