JAIPUR: As   draws nearer, it has become a routine affair when people with injuries due to   (kite string) rushed for treatment at Sawai Man Singh Hospital’s Institute of Traumatology and Orthopaedics (ITO). On Thursday too, a person was brought to ITO with severe cut on his ear. 

 According to ITO officials, they administered three stitches to repair the ear. “Every day, we see patients coming to ITO with injuries due to manjha. Some have injuries on nose, hand, and ear and also two patients have already been provided treatment for cut on throat, which could have been fatal.”
 
 Besides, one more person suffered cut on his nose from manjha of snapped kite on Thursday. 
 
 However, in the market, Chinese manjha is being sold, despite the ban.  , along with district collector and Jaipur police have already issued separate orders banning Chinese manjha but still cases of injuries due to Chinese manjha have not stopped. 
 
 A senior district administration official said, “So far no person has been penalised for selling Chinese manjha in Jaipur rural.”
 
 He said that they are spreading awareness among the kite sellers not to sale Chinese manjha. “In Jaipur city, it is the responsibility of Jaipur police, while in rural areas, the district administration is taking all possible measures to prevent sale of Chinese manjha,” the official said. 
 
 However, in Jaipur city area, police have searched shops of kite traders in the Walled City area but they did not find any Chinese manjha. “We have searched shops but we did not find any Chinese manjha in shops in our area,” Kotwali station house officer Ashok Kumar said. 
 
 He said that to make kite traders aware about it, they had called a meeting of kite traders two days ago. “In the meeting, we have clearly instructed the kite traders, not to sale Chinese manjha. The traders assured us that they do not sell such kite strings, which cause injuries to people,” Kumar said, adding that in the meeting the traders talked about online sale of Chinese manjha. “There is an online site, which sell Chinese manjha, which could be the reason of influx of Chinese manjha in the city,” Kumar said. 
 
 He said that traders pointed out that Chinese manjha has affected their business. 
 
 However, city markets are all decked up for makar Sankranti. Kite traders from neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh, have also set up their shops in Handipura area of the Walled City. Alim Uddin, a trader from Aligarh, said that this year, the business has not picked up yet. “Still there are two days for Makar Sankranti, we hope that kite lovers will come to buy the kites. Most of the sale happens in two-three days before the kite festival,” he said, adding that influx of Chinese manjha has affected the sale of manjha made in Uttar Pradesh using traditional technique, which was safe. “It is good that the government has imposed ban on Chinese manjha,” he said. 
 
