BHUBANESWAR: A playground situated between the   and a busy main road has become a major cause for concern for parents of more than 400 schoolchildren studying at the Rental Colony Upper Primary School. 

 Situated in ward 15 of  , the school stands in front of a main road connecting the VIP area and  . A few months ago, speeding vehicles hit two kids while they were standing near the school. 
 
 With no boundary wall, the school often plays host to elephants, snakes, jackals and wild boars of the sanctuary, who stray into the school premises. While a trench has been constructed behind the school to keep elephants at bay, it is badly damaged. 
 
 Children of the school too often cross the trench and enter the sanctuary without informing the teachers.
 
 "Small children do not know the depth of the trench because it is covered with weeds. I had once seen a snake inside it," said Sunil, a class V student of the school.
 
 The front of the school is also not out of danger. "A major drain has no cover. If kids fall into it, they may be seriously injured. The BMC should cover the drains with cement slabs," said former school committee chairman, Malay Kumar Tarai. Sardar Sahu, headmaster of the school, said, "Some anti-socials enter into their school premises in the evening and drink liquor there. We see the empty liquor bottles on the ground regularly while entering school next morning. The boundary wall can solve all these problems."
 
 This institution came up in 1988 at a government quarter in Rental Colony. "Due to congestion, a new campus came up near the sanctuary in 2014. Students from Class I to Class V study in the new campus, while class VI and class VII kids attend their classes in the old campus," school committee chairman Bharat Chandra Sasmal said.
 
 Khurda district project coordinator of the  , Amita Patnaik, said there is no planned budget for the construction of school boundary walls. "But it can be constructed if other departments like panchayati raj department (for rural area) and urban development department (for urban) and local area development funds of MPs and MLAs come together," she added.
 
 
