NAGPUR: Suicide by a 45-year-old farmer Prakash Mangaonkar at Titwi village, 160 km from here, in Ghatanji taluka of   district has triggered a political controversy with  , BJP MP, and former minister   of   visiting the village to console the mourning family.

 On Saturday, Mangaonkar reportedly committed suicide by hanging from a teak tree in the village. Apparently before taking the step, he scribbled something on the teak leaves that has caused a political storm of sorts. On one leaf he wrote ‘Modi Sarkar’ and on the other ‘Karzmafi.’ This he scribbled using lime (chuna, that is commonly consumed orally along with tobacco). The two words are being seen to mean that the farmer died as he was frustrated with the Modi government and delay in rolling out the proposed farm loan waiver by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in the state. 
 
 The deceased farmer left behind 40-year-old widow, a daughter (16), son (6) and 66-year-old mother. He had in his name two-hectare land, half of which he sold to buy a mini-truck earlier this year. But the truck met with an accident and he was left with Rs 2.68 lakh loan taken for it along with Rs 1.25 lakh of outstanding crop loan.
 
 What made Patole’s visit to the village on Monday special is that it is being seen as yet another affront to Modi. During   campaign in 2014, Modi had visited Yavatmal and held meetings with farmers assuring them that if elected his government would bring farmer-suicide episodes to an end. 
 
 The farm crisis continues unabated and Patole claims suicides have only shot up in the last one year. Speaking to villagers on Monday, Patole said he was ready to resign from Lok Sabha if that is what is required to fight for farmers’ cause. He is in a rebellious mood these for political reasons of his own. He is worried that by 2019, BJP may join hands with the Nationalist Congress Party and give his rival and NCP stalwart Praful Patel ticket from Bhandara-Gondia seat, leaving him (Patole) in the lurch.
 
 Patole has become the first ruling party leader to speak out openly against prime minister Narendra Modi as well as state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, directly blaming them for the growing number of farmer suicides in the state. Interestingly, Titwi village is not in Patole’s constituency, yet he made the trip. Last week he also raised issue of bad roads in Nagpur where the civic body is BJP-controlled.
 
 After he left the village, Moghe landed there. Talking to TOI from there, Moghe said the young farmer’s death was a clear sign of increasing despondency among farmers against Modi government that has not come to state’s rescue and left Fadnavis to deal with the crisis.
 
 
