THANE: In a significant judgement, the   (MACT) awarded compensation to a man for losing his unborn child in a   exactly ten years ago on Jan 27, 2007 in Asangaon.

 SM Gavhane, the MACT president and the district judge, ordered the four respondents in the case to make the payment of Rs. 1.52 lakh to the claimant,   (then 25).
 
 Appearing for the claimant, Baldev Rajput, told the tribunal that the applicant’s wife, Tai, who died in the mishap, was 16 to 18 weeks’ pregnant at that time. 
 
 Tai was riding pillion on the two-wheeler of her cousin Sandip Bhoye. Around 12.30 pm, Sandip Bhoye was riding from Manas Mandir Road to Asangaon station when they met with an accident involving a tempo and a car. 
 
 Tai Dandekar sustained grievous injuries and died on the spot. “A car from the opposite direction hit the two-wheeler, which in turn hit a tempo. The pregnant woman fell down and died on the spot. The cousin who was riding the two-wheeler also died in the accident,” Rajput told the court. 
 
 While the insurer, the owners of the car and the tempo were represented, the tempo driver remained absent and case was decided ex-parte against him. 
 
 In his order, the judge noted: “It is not disputed that she (Tai) was pregnant at the time of her death and the post-mortem report mentioned that her uterus was enlarged and a foetus of 16 to 18 weeks weighing 400g was in her womb at the time of her death. The question arises whether the foetus in Tai’s womb can be called as a child.” 
 
 Rajput relied upon the following decisions, Shraddha v/s Bdresh and others (2006 ACJ 2067) of the Madhya Pradesh high court and another case of Rakhi Kothari v/s R Soundaapandian and others (2014 ACJ 353) of the Madras high court.
 
 The judge also mentioned in the order: “In the present case, Tai succumbed to the injuries sustained the accident. The child died in the womb. There is nexus between the accident and the death of the child in Tai’s womb. Therefore the applicant being the father is entitled to compensation,” Gavhane stated.
 
 The tribunal also disposed of two more claims arising out of the same accident in which it also awarded compensation to the claimants. In the same case, the tribunal awarded Rs 4.55 lakh compensation to Prakash for Tai‘s death in the accident. Sandeep’s parents, Kisan (54) and Anandi (50) got a payout of Rs 4.5 lakh. 
 
