On Sunday morning in Lonavla's Kurwande Village, over 50 horses rolled on the ground kicking up dust before grooms wiped them off, massaged their joints and checked their heart rates. The flurry of activity at the stable with its precisely-timed choreography resembled a pit stop in a Formula One race. 

 And in a sense it was. These horses had just reached the halfway point of Maharashtra's first-ever 40km Endurance Championship. Before being permitted to continue, they had to be presented to a veterinarian, who would check for dehydration, limping and ensure their heart rate didn't exceed 64 beats per minute. The horse declared fit in the shortest amount of time would get a head start. Thus, an army of grooms and riders was engaged in bringing down their heart rate by any means necessary including encouraging them to roll and de-stress. 
 
 "This race is won and lost at the vet gate," explained three-star international judge Colonel Ashok Yadav, who has judged 120km championships in other parts of the country. Since, each rider's final time includes the time taken to bring down the horse's heart rate after 20km and again after 40km, strategy plays a key role.
 
 Winner Krish Sehgal, who completed the course in 2 hours 25 minutes on Atlantic Star, reined his horse in for the first half letting her get used to the terrain. It was only at the end that he let her sprint ahead of the other riders. "I knew she cools down fast," said Sehgal, referring to her heart rate. "I had an advantage because I knew my animal." 
 
 This Championship was organized for civilians by the   Horse Owners Association to promote India's vanishing Marwari breed, who they assumed would shine in a sport that rewarded stamina over speed. And they were right. Becky, a black Marwari with a braided mane, came in second missing first place by just over a minute. 
 
 "Endurance is a superior equestrian sport because it's not just about speed," explained one of the organizers Khushru Patel. "It's about stamina, strategy and training the animal to compete just like in a marathon. In other races, no one cares if the horse is dehydrated or limping at the end."
 
 Since this was the first year, a relatively easy track with few uphill slopes was selected. However, riders could take a short cut through a shallow lake.
 
 To encourage owners to ride their own horses, the Association included a 20km Endurance ride. This persuaded 65-year-old Ajay Shah to ride his favourite mare Zara. And he wasn't the only senior citizen to compete. Navin Gada, 61, completed 40 km in 3 hours 21 minutes winning a special jury award for his feat. 
 
 The winner in the junior category was 15-year-old Anurag  , who completed 20km in 57 minutes. He rode Honey, who has a tendency to run wildly the moment you give her the signal. So,   galloped till the last check post slowing only at the end to bring down her heart rate.
 
 Perhaps the toughest job belonged to veterinarian  , who had to disqualify horses who were limping or dehydrated. Riding coach Laxmisingh Gautam was distraught when her horse Gatsby was declared lame after she'd finished the 40km ride. This decision was later reversed leading to jubilation in the stable with all her young students encircling Gatsby in a bear hug. 
 
 The close bond between horse and rider was on display even amidst the stress of the vet check. Becky, the black Marwari horse, nuzzled her rider, Bakhtyar Irani, as grooms raced to bring down her heart rate. "  , behave yourself," he teased. "Don't kiss me in front of my wife."
 
