AMARAVATI: All the 174 legislators in  , belonging to both ruling and opposition parties, voted for the NDA presidential candidate,  , in the legislative assembly at Velagapudi on Monday. The   legislator vote could not be exercised following Bhuma Nagi Reddy’s demise.

 Controversial TDP MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao, who could not make it to parliament, exercised franchise in the assembly hall. All other MPs of both the Houses voted in parliament. 
 
 The UPA candidate got the votes of four Rajya Sabha members from the state -- K Chiranjeevi, T Subbarami Reddy, Renuka Chowdary and Mohammad Ali Khan -- representing the Congress. The ruling TDP has three RS members -- T Devender Goud, YS Chowdary and T Seetharama Lakshmi. BJP, YSR Congress and TRS have one each. TRS member K Keshava Rao, YSRC member Vijaya Sai Reddy and BJP member Suresh Prabhu also voted for Kovind.
 
 TDP president and chief minister Chandrababu Naidu cast his vote first followed by assembly speaker Kodela Sivaprasada Rao. Naidu earlier conducted a mock voting for the party legislators and briefed them on voting.
 
 The number two name in the ballot - Ram Nath Kovind - received all the number one votes, first and the only priority vote this time, while the first name in the ballot paper,  , backed by the UPA and the left parties, received not a single vote.
 
 The TDP legislators joined the two queue lines and finished voting in just two hours after it began. However, the CM was angry as some of the legislators did not reach the assembly premises and directed the TDLP leaders to call them. 
 
 The CM directed the NDA election agent, Kaluva Srinivasulu, and party leader T D Janardhana Rao to coordinate with latecomers and ensure that they also voted this time.
 
 Minister Amarnath Reddy whose arrival in Amaravati was delayed after a vehicle in his convoy met with an accident while coming from Hyderabad cast his vote in the post-lunch session.
 
 Meanwhile, the YSRC legislators reached the assembly in a special bus from Vijayawada. 
 
 Accompanied by their leader YS Jaganmohan Reddy, the legislators first took part in the mock voting conducted by the party’s election agent  . Later, Jagan cast his vote followed by other legislators. Jagan coordinated with latecomers like Chevireddi Bhaskara Reddy whose arrival was delayed.
 
