HYDERABAD: Some  , who are on the radar of prohibition and excise officials for their links to drug peddlers, reportedly consumed drugs even during their foreign trips. They are not only in touch with local peddlers, but developed contacts with drug rackets abroad to ensure their   continues even when they were away from home, sources said.

 Though they have leads of substance abuse during foreign trips, the prohibition and excise sleuths were concentrating on proving links of the Tollywood personalities, hoteliers and others with arrested peddlers   and others.
 
 “After questioning Tollywood personalities and the arrested peddlers, we are piecing together information given by them in bits and pieces and we are mapping all the dots. As several others, who received notices, are yet to appear, we are sure we will crack the case,'' sources in the prohibition and excise department told TOI.
 
 After busting several rackets involved in peddling narcotics more than 15 days ago and arrest of Calvin and the  , other peddlers part of the same network, disposed of the drugs fearing they too would be caught. “We have information that one of the peddlers, who feared that he too will be nabbed, dropped narcotics in his possession in a commode and then flushed it,“ the sources added.
 
 Of the Tollywood personalities already questioned , one or two confessed to have met the peddler. However, they were ignorant what they took from them was a drug. They took defence that they met the accused for some other reason, but not for purchasing the dope. “The persons questioned so far have 'not' disclosed information, but gave some valuable inputs,“ the officials said. .
 
 The four Tollywood personalities, who appeared before the SIT sleuths, claiming innocence, disclosed the names of several other film personalities involved in substance abuse. Already, the officials made it clear that after the questioning of the 12 Tollywood personalities, notices might be issued to those whose names cropped up during the investigation. Till now, 15 persons were arrested and 3,000 bots of LSD, 45 grams of cocaine other narcotics were seized.
 
