SHIMLA: While Himachal Pradesh transport minister G S Bali is holding a big rally at his constituency   on Wednesday to thank the state government for giving unemployment allowance to   youth, chief minister   on his part has announced that unemployment   would start from Chamba on Friday.

 As per the schedule, Virbhadra on Wednesday morning would leave for Delhi as he has to appear before the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday. With this, there are bleak chances of his attending the Nagrota rally where Bali has claimed to ensure the gathering of around 20,000 to 25,000 unemployed youth.
 
 Even urban development minister and Dharamshala MLA of Congress Sudhir Sharma is likely to be abstaining from Nagrota rally as he has not been invited. Sharma is close loyalist of Virbhadra. Both Bali and Sharma are silently batting for supremacy in Kangra district.
 
 Sources said that though Congress had promised unemployment allowance in the manifesto of 2012 assembly election, the issue was put in the back burner after forming the government due to financial constrains involved. But it was Bali who earlier this year had raised the issue of giving unemployment allowance as per the promise made in the election manifesto and also announced to hold conclave of youth on the issue. As now finally government has decided to give the allowance, Bali is first to thank the government by holding a rally in his home constituency.
 
 When contacted, Bali said that on Wednesday around 20,000 to 25,000 would attend the rally to thank the chief minister and Congress government for giving the allowance. He said he was not trying to take the credit rather giving credit to the Virbhadra-led government. He said though Virbhadra on Tuesday has not confirmed about attending the rally but on Monday he had promised to attend it. “I believe his words and hope that he would come,” Bali added. He said that no leader has been given formal invitation as anybody can come to the rally. Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu has announced his presence in the rally.
 
 
