PATNA: With the rise in mercury level, cases of   have increased in the city. According to doctors, fluctuating temperature is ideal for the growth of all types of viruses, including that of chickenpox.

 Doctors said   have increased by at least 20-30% with the onset of summer. “We are getting a large number of such patients these days,” said a doctor at   and Hospital. The chickenpox (varicella) is a viral infection that causes an itchy, blister-like rash and high-grade fever. It is highly contagious to people who haven't had the disease or been vaccinated against it.
 
 “Chickenpox patients complain of rashes especially in trunk area. Apart from prolonged fever, such patients also suffer from decreased appetite. They develop blisters and rashes. Clusters of blisters around the trunk and severe itching are quite common among chickenpox patients. “Patients with fever should immediately visit a doctor as the virus is highly contagious and is carried through air,” said a PMCH doctor.
 
 Senior consultant paediatrician Dr   said parents should keep their children at home in case they contract the infection as it could easily spread to other children in school if precautions are not taken. 
 
 “The infection is self-limiting and the incubation period for chickenpox is generally 10-14 days. However, pregnant women must be protected from this serious illness by consulting the doctor. The newborns might suffer from deformities if the mother contracts chickenpox during pregnancy,” she added.
 
 Patients who have undergone organ transplants and those suffering from cancer are more prone to the disease due to weak immunity. “If the disease is unchecked in adults, it might escalate to pneumonia,” said the doctor.
 
 Dr   of PMCH said people resort to home remedies even after consulting the doctor and return back with more serious complications due to myths and taboos prevalent in the society. “We are not against age-old prophylactic practices, such as using ‘neem’ leaf, but one must have lots of fluids and home cooked food for timely recovery,” Dr Sharma said.
 
