JAIPUR: Replying to the notice for  , rebel   has said that fear for his life and repeated insults kept him away from party meetings.

 Tiwari sent across his ‘partial’ reply to the notice issued to him by the party’s  . Tiwari has to reply to the notice, dated May 6, 2016, within 10 days. On Sunday, he sent in his reply reasons for staying away from party meetings and functions.
 
 “It is true that I am not going for the party meetings. The main reason behind this is that there is a threat to my life. On October 2, 2015 I was attacked by hired goons of the chief minister at the gates of the  . That was a programme where I was invited to be the chief guest,” reads the reply. The MLA has enclosed related documents and prior letters sent by him.
 
 Tiwari claimed that he was attacked in a similar fashion four times earlier too. “As my security was withdrawn by the present state government, my family and supporters thought it was best for me to stay away from party meetings,” said Tiwari, explaining his reply. The senior MLA has pointed out that he had informed the party high command about these attacks but while he was served with a notice, no action was taken against the accused. Tiwari claimed that in meetings he was not attacked, he was insulted.
 
 “In a much-thought manner, I was side lined in the party. All responsibilities within the state party and at the national level were taken away from me. I was included in the national executive by national president Amit Shah. I received a call inviting me to Delhi but overnight, pressure was built and my name withdrawn,” said Tiwari.
 
 He has alleged in his reply that he was deliberately denied a ticket in the 2014   and was neither included in the state cabinet nor in the organisation. That apart, despite being a senior legislator, he was not included in any of the committees of the Rajasthan Assembly. He has alleged that all this was done due to chief minister’s pressure.
 
 In his reply, Tiwari has said that instead of him, the real ‘culprit’ should have been sent a notice. “A notice to me means a notice to every dedicated party worker. The notice disregards the dedication of a worker towards party,” he said.
 
 Tiwari is likely to make his reply to other accusations against him in the next couple of days. The senior MLA has already announced that he will not accept the present state leadership and has hinted at walking on a different path.
 
