AHMEDABAD: Yunus Sindhi and his family have been rearing cattle for six generations. But they have decided to wind up because of the atmosphere of fear created by self-styled ‘gau rakshaks’ (cow vigilantes). Sindhi, 42, and his family live in the crowded Muslim-dominated walled city area of  . He said that in the current atmosphere of fear it has become very difficult for Muslims to move out with cows even to get them treated for illness. “Look at how a cattle rearer, Pehlu Khan, was lynched by the so-called cow vigilantes in Alwar, Rajasthan. We don’t want to risk our children’s lives,” Sindhi said.

 Sindhi’s son, Mohammed Mazharullah, studies in class 10. He said they sometimes have to bring the cows home in the evening when they have been out grazing the whole day.
 
 “Here people and police know us but we can’t take them to veterinary clinics in vehicles. The so-called cow vigilantes can intercept us anytime and lynch us as we are Muslims,” Mazharullah said.
 
 Sindhi’s brother, Ashad, said they have to call veterinary doctors to their home even during emergencies. Naran Desai, a livestock officer at a veterinary clinic in Madalpur, said that he had been treating Sindhi’s cows at his home even in medical emergencies. Sindhi family has been in the cattle rearing business for more than hundred years. 
 
 “We used to have 150 cows and sold milk. Now we have two cows and four calves. We get about 8 litres of milk daily. Some of the milk we keep for ourselves and the rest is sold to people who come to us to buy cow milk,” Sindhi said.
 
 Sindhi’s brother Ashad remembers how his grandfather Gul Mohammed and Sakina would never keep a stick with them while milking cows. “Even now I don’t keep a stick while milking cows. Gestures are enough to control them,” Sindhi said.
 
 Sindhi’s younger brother, Yousuf, said they respect cows because it gives them milk. “We have all grown up on cow milk and look how fit we are,” Yousuf said. Sindhi said they are strictly against those elements who steal cows and slaughter them. “Cow slaughter should not happen as it is against the law and because the cow is a sacred animal for Hindus. Unfortunately, since 2002, I have lost more than 30 cows to cattle thieves,” Sindhi said. Sindhi and his family purchase cows from Tarja Desai of Vadaj who said he had known the Sindhi family for years . “We sell them cows for rearing. They respect cows and take care of them as their own children,” Desai said.
 
 Sindhi said that many times when he was herding cows back home, some people had called up the police control room to say that a bearded Muslim was going with cows. “The police come rushing but as they know me as a cattle rearer they don’t harass me,” Sindhi said.
 
 
