MUMBAI: India Inc has been largely compliant in adhering to a wide gamut of corporate and securities laws, as also allied industry-specific laws, according to an analysis of   reports of the S&P   500 companies for financial year 2015-16.

 From the basket of BSE 500 companies that were analysed, 480 were required to undertake secretarial audit for the year ended March 31, 2016 (the remaining were banking companies who do not have to undertake such an audit). Of these, only 93 companies (or 19%), as compared to 28% in the previous year, had qualified secretarial audit reports, according to findings of a study released on Thursday by  , a research and tech-solution company operating in the corporate laws space. A qualification denotes non-compliance with the prescribed regulations.
 
 Suresh Senapaty, chairman of CimplyFive, said, “Compared to FY2014-15, which was the first year where secretarial audit was mandated, the clean reports in FY2015-16 increased by 9 percentage points from 72% to 81%. This trend indicates substantial improvement in compliance.”
 
 Secretarial audit is mandatory for all listed companies and those having a paid-up share capital of Rs 50 crore or more, or a turnover of Rs 250 crore or more. Matters related to non-appointment of independent directors, improper composition of the board of directors or committees, non-compliance with the requirement of appointing women directors and also delay in filing of forms with the   (MCA) dominated the list of secretarial audit qualifications.
 
 A secretarial audit, which is carried out by company secretaries, requires the auditor to state compliance with all laws as may be applicable to the company. Variances in the ambit of laws covered by such an audit do arise.For the second year running,   took the top spot for listing 230 mandates that they comply with.   with 92 and   at 91 ranked second and third in the list of companies that had the largest mandate for secretarial audit. There were no secretarial audit qualifications in the reports of these three companies.
 
 
