GURUGRAM: It was his pen and passion for writing that kept accused number 14,  , going, all these years, even when odds were stacked heavily against him. 

 On Friday, he was nervous, sitting in a corner and uttering a prayer, as the court was waiting for 25 more accused to arrive before the proceedings could start. As the wait continued, Sharma, the writer, preferred to speak about his diaries that summarise his life behind bars. “I was always interested in writing, but never did it seriously until I landed in prison,” he said. 
 
 Sharma, from   in Rajasthan, had joined   as a technician soon after the plant opened in 2006. He used to work in the ‘press op’ line. He was arrested on July 18, 2012, the day of the violence, and granted bail in August 2016.
 
 “Initially, I used to write about myself. But when I started talking to people facing trial in different cases, I found many who were stuck inside for no fault of theirs. I heard their stories and included them in my diaries. I wrote about little things that happened in jail,” he said, providing a peek into life in prison.
 
 Though his inmates encouraged him in his pursuit, accessing writing pads was a problem. So, he befriended people who could bring him small notebooks for money. “I would pay Rs 50 for a notebook of 12 pages, and make use of every bit of paper, including the margins. Sometimes, I had to pay more, but I didn’t mind. It kept me going,” he said. 
 
 Once the proceedings ended on Friday, Sharma, who was acquitted along with 116 others, was the first to emerge, hands clasped in the air. “Thank God,” he cried, with tears in his eyes. “What happened is a slap on the face of the company. But what about the four years and 23 days I spent in prison? Who is answerable?” he asked.
 
 One of Sharma’s biggest regrets is that he could not be at home when his mother met with an accident. “I was the only earning member of my family and I wasn’t there when my mother needed me,” he rued. Now, after 11 years of his association with the company, he does not want to work any more. He is looking forward to publishing his prison dairies, written in Hindi, highlighting how he was wronged and how emerged victorious.
 
 
