CHENNAI: More than 1.8 crore children between 9 months and 15 years in Tamil Nadu - nearly a quarter of the state's population - will be given the   by doctors, nurses and trained workers in schools and health centres in February, said director of public health Dr  .

 The live, attenuated vaccine will be administered as a 0.5ml dose through the subcutaneous route on the right arm in one of the largest immunisation drives of the state. At least 1,200 doctors and 10,000 nurses, besides anganwadi workers and volunteers, will be involved in the programme, he said.
 
 The programme is the first phase of the vaccination drive by the Union ministry of health and family welfare in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Puducherry and Lakshad weep. After the month-long drive, the measles-rubella vaccine will replace the measles vaccine for children under two years in the state. The drive will be introduced in other states in a phased manner. Like in most developed countries, children in India will soon receive the combination vaccine at least twice before they enter school, said a senior Union health ministry official. “It is extremely important to vaccinate even older children in the first phase because it will help us wipe out the virus.“
 
 Rubella, or German measles, is a contagious viral infection that causes a distinctive red rash. Though there are no statistics on its prevalence, the health ministry says the disease is endemic in India. It spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes and can also be passed on from mother to the newborn. Experts say more than two lakh children in India and at least 2,000 in Tamil Nadu are born deaf, blind, or with heart or brain damage every year due to the congenital rubella syndrome.
 
 The vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum   will be purchased and supplied by the Union ministry , while the state health department will execute the programme. “We have trained health workers to counsel children and administer the injection. Each health worker will administer 100-150 injections a day ,“ said a senior health official. The vaccine has no major side effects, though some children may develop mild fever. However, vaccination should be avoided in children with fever above 102°F besides those who have immune-compromised diseases such as leukaemia, lymphoma or other cancers.
 
 The health department has requested directorate of school education officials to inform parents about the vaccination programme and its schedule. “A letter will be sent to all school managements soon. We are working out a schedule for the vaccination programme along with the health department,“ said a senior official in the directorate of school education.
 
 From March, children aged 9 months will be given the first dose of the combination vaccine instead of the measles vaccines and it will be followed by another dose before they turn two.
 
