Bengaluru: The new Universal Health Scheme that the   is likely to roll out in three months will come with a rider: Patients who wish to avail of the scheme’s benefits will have to be treated first at a government hospital. Regardless of income, all citizens can use the benefits of the new scheme, which integrates the benefits of nearly two dozen different policies. 

 Under the new scheme, a patient will first have to visit a government hospital, where he or she will receive treatment free of cost – there’s no cap on state-sponsored medical treatment. The patient can visit a private hospital only if the government institution is not equipped to provide him or her with the required treatment. Moreover, the patient needs to have a reference letter from an official at the government hospital in order to avail of free treatment at the private institution.
 
 The proviso attached to the proposed scheme is meant to act as a gatekeeping mechanism to prevent the public from visiting only private hospitals. Likely to be tabled before the cabinet shortly, one of the scheme’s objectives is to ensure that more people utilise services at government hospitals, given the amount of money that the state invests in them. The scheme aims to bring the many disparate   policies under one banner.
 
 Under the new scheme, the beneficiaries will be issued a single card that will be synchornised with their Aadhar number. This card can be used by the beneficiaries for cashless transactions at private hospitals.
 
 Currently there are government sponsored health schemes such as Arogya Bhagya, Vajapeyi Arogyasri, Yashaswini, Jyothi Sanjivini, Indira Suraksha Yojana, Mukhyamantri Santhwana Harish scheme, Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram, Police Arogya Bhagya, Rajiv Arogya Bhagya, Bala Sanjivini, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, Rastriya Bala Suraksha Yojana, Senior Citizen-Rashtriya Aswasthya Bima Yojana, Cochlear implant scheme, Central government health scheme. The idea is to bring together all the existing health schemes under one banner. 
 
 “The government spent more than Rs 1,000 crore for reimbursement of medical expenditure through insurance schemes. The sum can actually be used to strengthen government healthcare institutions. We will soon have 200 free dialysis units working in the state, and efforts are being made to set up ICUs in all taluk hospitals. When we’re asking public to come to government hospitals, it’s important to ensure that they can receive quality care there,” said officials in the health department.
 
 Officials added that the scheme would not be named after any leader or politician. “The scheme largely aims to increase confidence among the public regarding government healthcare service,” they said.
 
 Elected representatives not exempt from new rule
 
 The provisions of the proposed scheme also apply to elected representatives and politicians. To end the practice of erroneous medical bills, which get cleared without any questions asked, the health department is intent on ensuring that even MLAs, MLCs and MPs adhere to the rule, which stipulates that patients first visit a government hospital for treatment. 
 
 “Elected representatives will be entitled to free treatment at private hospitals, only if they are referred by government hospitals. The referral letters will be thoroughly scrutinised. Medical officer at a hospital will have to ascertain if the government hospital cannot provide the required treatment that the patient needs. Once the patient avails of treatment at a private hospital, the government will reimburse the amount directly to the institution. The era of fake bills has to end,” said sources in the health department.
 
 Pointing out that there was no cap on medical reimbursement for elected representatives, a source said, “The government reimbursed Rs 3 crore for treatment to a MLA, who suffered a prolonged illness. There are many loopholes in claiming reimbursement, and the department is coming up with a new proposal to plug them.”
 
 Proposed policy leaves many questions unanswered
 
 *With most government hospitals being serviced by a skeletal staff, will they be able to handle the additional load?
 
 *How will officials ensure the referral system remains fool-proof?
 
 *In cases of emergency, will patients have to wait for a referral letter from the government hospital?
 
 *How will the new scheme win the confidence of private hospitals? 
 
 *Will the new scheme reverse the principle governing existing schemes such as Yashaswini (insurance scheme for farmers with cap pf Rs 2 lakh per anum)?
 
 
