THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A committee appointed by the state government to study the   on   has recommended the government to press the union government to set up a 'national demonetisation  '. 

 The committee, headed by JNU professor C P Chandrasekhar, submitted its report to state government here on Friday. However, the committee refused to quantify the impact of demonetisation on the state's economy in general or on any sector in particular. 
 
 Adverse effects were found on tourism and agriculture, especially on primary agriculture cooperatives, the report claimed.
 
 Interestingly, the committee has recommended the government to take steps to modernise PACs. 
 
 "Initiatives from outside the cooperative sector should be accompanied to strengthen their institutional basis. Shifts to technological solutions that allow all PACS and their branches to be connected and networked and link that network to the scheduled commercial banks are needed. 
 
 "Technological modernisation should be accompanied by managerial and operational reform. Central to such reform must be the introduction of practices such as ensuring KYC compliance, requiring PAN card registration and   (TDS) on deposits that are eligible,"states the report.
 
 Relief measures that aim to address the pain caused by unemployment and loss of livelihood that have occurred as a result of the demonetisation were needed urgently. 
 
 "Kerala must take the lead and conduct a comprehensive study to assess the losses triggered by demonetisation and provide a template on how that is best done. 
 
 A similar study across the states should be followed by a conference of chief ministers," the report said.
 
 Even when digital payments are encouraged, a substantial cash economy would continue to exist, especially in large parts of the informal sector. 
 
 "The informal sector survives because of low overheads and low tax rates. For that reason, people in the informal sector may not be able to embrace the digital future. 
 
 "For them the ultimate solution is the return of cash. All the government can do is to offer some support in the interim to prevent demonetisation from triggering a collapse of the informal economy," the planning board's committee's report said.
 
  Thiruvananthapuram: A committee appointed by the state government to study the impact of demonetisation on state economy has recommended the government to press the union government to set up a 'national demonetisation impact relief fund'. 
 
 The committee, headed by JNU professor C P Chandrasekhar, submitted its report to state government here on Friday. However, the committee refused to quantify the impact of demonetisation on the state's economy in general or on any sector in particular. Adverse effects were found on tourism and agriculture, especially on primary agriculture cooperatives, the report claimed.
 
 Interestingly, the committee has recommended the government to take steps to modernise PACs. "Initiatives from outside the cooperative sector should be accompanied to strengthen their institutional basis. Shifts to technological solutions that allow all PACS and their branches to be connected and networked and link that network to the scheduled commercial banks are needed. Technological modernisation should be accompanied by managerial and operational reform. Central to such reform must be the introduction of practices such as ensuring KYC compliance, requiring PAN card registration and deducting tax at source (TDS) on deposits that are eligible,"states the report.
 
 Relief measures that aim to address the pain caused by unemployment and loss of livelihood that have occurred as a result of the demonetisation were needed urgently. "Kerala must take the lead and conduct a comprehensive study to assess the losses triggered by demonetisation and provide a template on how that is best done. A similar study across the states should be followed by a conference of chief ministers," the report said.
 
 Even when digital payments are encouraged, a substantial cash economy would continue to exist, especially in large parts of the informal sector. "The informal sector survives because of low overheads and low tax rates. For that reason, people in the informal sector may not be able to embrace the digital future. For them the ultimate solution is the return of cash. All the government can do is to offer some support in the interim to prevent demonetisation from triggering a collapse of the informal economy," the report said.
 
