

 The makeover of what was once derided as a suit boot ki sarkar seems complete. 
 
 Even before the demonetisation strike of November 8, 
  had been working hard to drive home the message that his government is for the poor and against the rich. This signalling was further amplified in the 
  on Wednesday. While India Inc was left waiting for the promised move towards lower taxes,   went where no FM has gone in two decades – by cutting a tax rate. 
 
 But this was confined to the lowest taxable income group among individuals – less than Rs 5 lakh a year – and to businesses with turnovers of no more than Rs 50 crore. The FM spent a large part of his speech, more than an hour, stressing that his ten focus areas included farmers and village folk, the poor and youth – which while not unusual, became even more necessary because of the criticism that 
  had hurt the informal sector and the rural economy. 
 
 Jaitley did stress though that the adverse effects of demonetisation would not spill over into 2017-18. “My overall approach…has been to spend more on rural areas, infrastructure and poverty alleviation and yet maintain the best standards of fiscal prudence,” Jaitley said in his 110-minute speech. A record Rs 10 lakh crore as the target for farm credit and increased coverage of the crop insurance scheme highlighted the focus on agriculture. 
 
 The continuing theme of attacking black money was evident in the move to ban all cash transactions of over Rs 3 lakh and the 
  . Parties will now have to disclose the identities of those donating over Rs 2,000, though electoral bonds will be introduced to allow anonymity for clean donors. 
 
 The Modi government’s appropriation of Gandhi and of successful UPA schemes continued apace. The Mahatma and his 150th birth anniversary were repeatedly mentioned. Jaitley stressed that the Rs 48,000 crore being allocated to MNREGA was a record.
 
 Those looking for radical reforms were not left entirely disappointed either, with the FM promising the 
  (FIPB), an agency that screens overseas investment proposals, would be wound up and also sharply hiking the target for disinvestment. Labour reforms, always a politically challenging issue, were also promised. 
 
 Rating agencies would be happy the FM resisted the pressure to loosen his pursestrings and the temptation to use the leeway given to him by a panel on fiscal reforms and restrained himself to a fiscal deficit target of 3.2% of GDP. Even better, he cut the revenue deficit – which measures the extent to which routine government spending exceeds its income – to 1.9% of GDP, lower than the 2% mandated by the law on fiscal responsibility. He has been helped in this by the fact that direct tax collections rose by over 17% for the second successive year and collections of advance personal income tax for the current year are up an impressive 34.8%. That gives the FM reason to believe that tax revenues will be buoyant. 
 
 Interestingly, while the Election Commission had asked the government to refrain from making proposals specific to the five poll-bound states, the FM virtually avoided any mention of specific states. The only exceptions were two new AIIMS hospitals for Jharkhand and Gujarat and tax sops on land acquired for building Andhra Pradesh’s new capital. 
 
 He indicated that the railways, clubbed for the first time in almost a century in the general budget, would work out its fares and freight charges on a sounder economic basis. While the FM promised a safety fund with a corpus of over Rs 1 lakh crore in five years, the concerns about its financial health remained unaddressed perhaps because the likely treatment could prove a bitter pill in election season.
 
