MANALI: When TOI asked   on Saturday about the decreasing number of population in the district, he said that local people, especially those living close to the border areas, are migrating to other districts of   as they have to spending harsh days amid weak  

 The MLA said that conditions of roads in the remote areas of Spiti are in bad shape. “The Central government should pay attention to the condition of roads close to the border with China.   have not been resumed for vehicular traffic so far. People are being lifted with the help of emergency helicopter service and over 1,200 people have availed the service this season,” he said.
 
 According to sources, Lahaul-Spiti is the only district of the country where population is decreasing despite being the largest in state, geographically. According to 2001 census, the district had a population of 33,224 and it was found reduced to 31,528 in 2011 census. While all districts of the country recorded population explosion in 10 years, Lahaul-Spiti district witnessed a decrease in population by 1,696 people.
 
 Almost all the residents of Lahaul have built their houses in Kullu and Spiti residents too are moving to other districts. The district has no regular electricity, telephone and internet services, while the roads are in dilapidated condition. Weak medical service is the main thing that worries residents. Heavy snowfall worsens the situation. While most people have migrated to other districts permanently, many will go back to the district in summer months.
 
 Thakur said that telemedical services are being provided to people at their villages and nearly 6,000 people have been treated. “Over a dozen bridges including Nalda, Salgran, Lovar, Miyar nullah, Khanjar, Karpat, Shashel, Jobrang, Chokhang, Teling, Yangla, Kir nullah, Chicham, Yoche, Rama and Lio have been built in the district. Power crisis in Spiti will be removed with help of a large solar project and 2MW hydel project on Rongtong nullah. Spiti will come closer to Kinnaur with the help of a new road over Bhaba pass,” he said.
 
