NAGPUR: The   of the region could look forward to ‘acchhe din’ this year.   prices ruled around Rs 5700 a quintal on Monday. Experts do not rule out the prevailing uptrend continuing and rates touching Rs6000 soon. If that happens, it will be a five-year high providing much needed relief to the ever-distressed  . The government-fixed minimum support prize is Rs4160.

 Farmers burned their fingers last year having sold the produce in a hurry at prices of Rs4000/quintal. Traders ramped up rates to around Rs5000 by the end of last season. Wiser now, farmers are playing the waiting game. So even as Sankranti, when arrivals in market are at peak, has passed only around 95 lakh quintals have come to the market. As per figures floated by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and Cotton Association which track availability, this year the yield is bumper and certain to be around 450 lakh quintal.
 
 So with more than 350 lakh quintal of crop still with farmers and demonetization having slowed down the business in most of November and December, things are getting to normal now. Traders from Gujarat have descended in large numbers in Vidarbha and are buying at farmer’s doorstep. Starting from Rs5000, rates have firmed up to Rs5700 a quintal.
 
 “The demand is high this time from Bangladesh and Pakistan that have developed into large textile, garment markets for the world. Also, rates of cottonseed and cake used as cattle feed have gone up benefiting the entire business,” explained N P Hirani, chairman of the   Cooperative Marketing Federation.
 
 “Indeed the demand is high and sentiment firm in open market,” confirmed Kishore Tiwari, chairman of the task force to address farm distress in 14 cotton-growing districts of Maharashtra. “CCI has now opened procurement centres and is paying Rs5400 a quintal in race with private traders who have cornered all supplies so far,” said Tiwari.
 
 “At Rs6000 a quintal, cotton growers can make some money. Anything less than that is a losing proposition,” said Hirani pitching in for farmers. “In fact, like Gujarat, which pays a bonus amount over and above the MSP, Maharashtra should also chip in to protect its farmers,” he said. For years, the federation ruled the roost in state but now their procurement centres are deserted as farmers prefer open market where private traders offer much more than the MSP at which federation purchases.
 
