NEW DELHI: The  's assurance at large that contentious league merger is off at least for now is heartening news. But before we begin to rejoice over it, we must pause and see beyond the smokescreen.

 While calling off the move which threatened to split Indian football right down the middle, appears to be a victory for India's clubs, in mooting a proposed dual league system we may have relegated the I-League to the second division even before the merger has taken its first steps.
 
 Furthermore, by anointing a similar status to the ISL, which in effect is still a franchisee-based inter-city event with its own set of rules on foreign player composition and duration, we are giving the event the status of a league and with the sponsor investment and lucrative nature, it becomes the top league of the country.
 
 Yet, following the discussions in Mumbai on Saturday between   president,   and the representatives of   and East Bengal, it was stated that the I-League continues to retain its position as India's premier league. But the worry is that it could still be losing more than its identity.
 
 Firstly, in the absence of a definite roadmap and guidelines so close to the planned year-end merger deadline, it must be pointed out that these criteria are proposals but have gained considerable traction over the past 12 months.
 
 Crucially, what emerged was that two parallel leagues would co-exist with the top four going on to a Super Cup playoff to determine India's champion club. A playoff again implies a victory for the ISL since it gives them the legitimacy to represent India in   competitions. That in effect, is what the ISL had been fighting for in the merger blueprint and the concerns had been voiced by Mohun Bagan after the meeting on Saturday.
 
 But the obvious and clear question is of the players' status. Till now, the I-League and the ISL co-habited with two distinct windows set apart for them, and the Indian players ­ however fatigued ­ could turn out for their I-League clubs too. With each league proposed to become a ten-team, seven-month affair, the I-League clubs are most certainly set to lose their big players to ISL. News doing the rounds is that with their ISL contracts having ended in 2017, the players are renegotiating with the ISL franchises and agents have been instructed not to look at I-League clubs.
 
 How will the AIFF top-brass and their marketing partners, Reliance-IMG, known better as the organisers of the ISL, arrive at a consensus in their AFC meeting in Bahrain, will be interesting to watch. Maybe Praful and Co have some unknown ace up their sleeve and that's why they are risking this hand, but as things stand when the dust clears, even  , their terrific I-League victory and their famed player-loyalty ­ touted as the happy complication in the merger plans - will be a thing of the past in Indian football's strange parallel universe of parallel leagues. 
 
