Manuja.Veerappa

 There is a quiet charm about Karun Nair. Take his celebration on reaching his triple century in the Test against England for example. There was no David Warner-like leap or excessive beating of the breast; just an almost-afterthought elevation of the bat and helmet.
 
 But beyond the shy-looking 25-year-old on the field, Karun is a fun loving youngster who loves his walks in Cubbon Park as much as he enjoys the baos at The Fatty Bao.
 
 In an exclusive chat with STOI, the Bengaluru boy, the son of an engineer and a schoolteacher, who moved to the city from Jodhpur when he was a few months old, opens up about five things he loves the most about his city.
 
 The People
 
 You hear a lot of languages and see a lot of diverse-looking folks in the city. There are people from all over India and a fair gathering from around the world too — Tibetans, Africans, Europeans. It gives the city a very rich international feeling, like a true world city. Yet everyone, no matter where they may have come from, quickly develop a bond with the city and believe it is their own Namma Bengaluru.
 
 The Weather
 
 It's not as amazing as it was 20 years ago, but still Bengaluru has the best weather for any big city in India.
 
 The parks and lakes
 
 The city is peppered with beautiful parks and lakes. While a lot of them have been lost to brick and mortar, there still are some wonderful places like my favourites — Cubbon Park and Lalbagh — for a morning run or a romantic walk on a sunny winter afternoon.
 
 The tree-lined roads
 
 This sadly is fast-disappearing, but it is a spectacle that you can still see in many pockets of the city. Driving or walking on roads which have huge, old trees on both sides forming a cool, shaded canopy over the road is a quintessentially Bengaluru feeling that I love. When the sun shines through a little patch in the canopy, it's a stunning image and one that I strongly associate with my city.
 
 The food
 
 While the dosas are undoubtedly the best in the world, there's a lot more that the city has to offer for foodies. I’m a foodie who loves to try out new cuisines. In recent years, food choices have become very cosmopolitan and the variety of cuisines from across India and the world that is now available in the city is terrific.
 
 
