It's been nearly two years since filmmaker   began work on his film  . It started as a simple philosophical thought that he believed would work out well on the big screen. 'The basic plotline of the film is about six major sins and the hero's search for moksha. Once that was in place, I began working on putting the rest of the production in place. For starters, there was a limited budget and I had to work within its constraints, and, considering that I came into the industry to become an actor, I decided to star in it,' he says.
Srinivas adds, 'For the rest of the team, I put out audition calls on social media, the response to which was phenomenal. I reached out to those who interested me, as the major criterion that I was looking for was young minds, who are smarter than me and who would not just stand by and nod in agreement to everything I say and do. I wanted a team that would question and criticize and help me make a superior project. The other, of course, was that they should not be looking at making money with this film, as I wasn't in a position to offer much, so I made sure that they were financially sound back home,' says Srinivas.
 Srinivasa Kalyana, as such, introduces a bunch of new talent to the Kannada film industry, including cinematographer  , choreographer   and music director Raghu Thane and the leading ladies,   and Kavitha. 'I called Ashwin after seeing his work on some of the short films he had done and when I spoke to him I realized that he was all set to pack his bags and return to his hometown in Kerala, as he wasn't getting any work. He has done an amazing job on this film, despite the constraints he had in terms of equipment that you would normally need on a film set,' says Srinivas. While Bhushan was known to the filmmaker earlier, having done a reality show together many years ago, Raghu Thane worked on the music along with Midhun Mukundan, who debuted in Kannada cinema with the Kahi last year.
 With his production team in place, the director-actor then began scripting, which, he says, took him nearly a year. 'On paper, the subject may seem simple, but the screenplay is quite complicated. A philosophical thought had to be presented in a commercial film, in a way that would not bore audiences, and, instead, have them relate to the subject and characters. Given that audiences today decide to watch a film based on its trailer, poster and songs and the success or failure of it then depends on word-of-mouth publicity, I had to ensure that my content is strong, which was one of the reasons it took so long to write this film,' he adds. 
 Today, Srinivas says that the team is like one big family and is eagerly awaiting the release of the film. 'Everyone on the team was so hands-on that they have worked on all departments of filmmaking. For instance, the heroines have held thermocol to bounce off light for the cameraman. That was the level of dedication that each one on the team had in making this film. In the past two years, I have learnt a lot from my team and we are now working on helping each other build a portfolio, by making short films and paving the way for everyone to do feature films,' he signs off. 
 
 
