BENGALURU: Five teachers were on Saturday honoured with the Teacher Awards for Innovative Teaching (TAFIT) awards instituted by The Times Foundation in collaboration with   and support partner  's. The awards aim to recognize and acknowledge the innovative strategies teachers have worked out as part of their classroom role.

 As many as 75 teachers from across the state had sent in their nominations and after three rounds of screening, five were selected as winners and five others as runnersup. TAFIT was open to private, government and special school teachers in the subject categories ---mathematics, science, social science, special education and languages ---Kannada, Hindi and English.
 
 The panellist for the selection process included Anita Nazare, deputy director, Education Cell, Karnataka; Padma Shastry , director,   and  , education consultant, among others.
 
 P C Jaffer, commissioner for Public Instructions and state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, stressed the need to incorporate technology into teaching and said it could not replace a teacher totally. “Technology and teaching must go hand in hand. Technology is important but we should not be a slave to it,“ he added.
 
 “Technology Assisted Learning Projects (TALP) are being intro duced in the state to improve standards especially in government schools. Studies have shown that the level of proficiency among stu dents is dismally low. To tackle this, remedial intervention has been undertaken as part of the Pratham Project,“ he said and added that there's a need to inculcate reading habit among children.
 
 On the relevance of teacher and the teaching tool in shaping the future, guest of honour Anita Nazare said teachers have to go beyond just the learning, reading, writing and speaking abilities of students. She pointed out that technology is not just about using a projector or audio visual elements but asking students the right questions and using appropriate evaluation methods.
 
 Christ University registrar Anil Joseph Pinto, dean Dr Mallika Krishnaswamy, head of   south regional head Kala Devi were present.
 
