KOLHAPUR: The   (KMC) on Wednesday refused to buckle under the pressure of traders to charge the   (LBT) as per the octroi rates for the period 2011 to 2015. 

 The civic body has initiated assessment of the local body tax paid or evaded by traders between 2011 and 2015. So far, it has issued demand notices to over 20,000 traders stating that during the period they have quoted the tax rates as per the octroi rates, which existed before the LBT came into existence in 2011. The government has abolished the LBT in August 2015 and had directed the civic bodies to assess the tax paid by the traders and recover the dues from the evaders. 
 
 A delegation of over 18 traders’ associations met civic cheif P   and other officials on Wednesday, saying that the notices are illegal as the demand to pay the dues are based on high tax rates. They said that while the LBT was being implemented in 2011, there was opposition, largely from traders, and the state government and the civic administration had promised to continue with the octroi rates. 
 
  of   said, “The LBT rates are arbitrarily increased by the KMC in the demand notice. For instance, the tax for vanaspati ghee is calculated at 6% instead of 2%. The authorities had promised that the tax will be calculated as per the octroi rates. The civic chief has discretionary powers to lower the tax rates.”
 
 While, the traders claimed that the rates of 58 commodities have been increased, the civic officials said that the rates are fixed by the state government by issuing notifications. After the octroi system was abolished, the government had increased the LBT for certain commodities such as spices, ‘kumkum’ and gold, officials said. 
 
 The traders demanded that the notices should be withdrawn and issuing of demand notices should be stopped. But, the civic authorities rejected the demand and stated that the legal aspects of the demands will be studied and demands will be communicated to the state urban development department. 
 
 Ram Katkar, LBT officer of the KMC said, “The civic chief does not have any discretionary powers to reduce the tax rates; it is the prerogative of the state government. The LBT for gold is increased in 2014, three years after the LBT came into effect. The demand notices are for the tax evaded during 2014-15 and the rest of the period. The demand to stop issuing the notices can’t be accepted since the government has directed us to complete the assessment work before March.” 
 
