
  Believe it or not but research has shown that the number of men dying from skin cancer is more than women. Sun can also prematurely age you which is why it’s time you start using sunscreen diligently. Apply sunscreen with minimum SPF 15 daily. If you spend time outdoors, apply it twice in a day.

 
 
  Contrary to popular belief, high-end skincare products are not synonymous to great quality. A healthy skin comes from better habits and not better products. Invest in a brand which you trust or ask for tried and tested recommendations. And of course accompany it with a healthy lifestyle.
 
 
 
  Many of you might not be knowing this but there are 4-5 different kinds of skin types that you should be aware of. It’s important especially with regard to which products you must or must not use, because certain ingredients suit one skin type and not others. For example, salicylic acid suits oily skin and not dry skin. Know your skin type before starting with a product.
 
 
 
  It may seem counterproductive to use oil/moisturiser on an already oily skin, but it is necessary. A moisturiser helps in keeping the surface of the skin supple and hydrated. In fact, more than hydrating your skin, the purpose of using a moisturiser for oily skin is about balancing and regulating the skin’s natural moisture.
 
 
  
 Constant touching and resting your hands on cheeks during the course of the day allows dirt, gunk and grime to settle on your skin. This leads to adult acne. Keeping your hands clean might help, but the truth is that your skin is always dirtier than it seems.
 
 
 
  For breakouts that are far and few in between, use over-the- counter products. But if you’re prone to zits, visit a dermatologist.
 
 
  
  Exfoliation is an important process of keeping your skin healthy. It can enhance the texture and complexion of your skin to a large extent by removing the dead skin cells, gunk and grime off your face. However, exfoliating more than twice a week or too much at a time can irritate and upset the balance of your skin. Your skin will dry out and in turn will compensate by over-producing oil; which is a signal for acne and blemishes.
 
 
 
 
