The stage is set for  's first concert in India on May 10 at Mumbai's DY Patil Stadium. Speculations have been rife about 
 , 
 , 
 , 
  and 
  being approached for the opening acts. Now, Mirror has learnt that 
  is one of the lucky few who will play host to the Grammy Award-winning artiste.

 "I am a huge Bieber fan and I've already thought of quite a few things that will make his visit multi-dimensional. While he's in India, I'd want to take him around and give him a taste of all things desi as his tour guide," informs the   who is busy with the shoot of Tarun Mansukhani's Drive with  .
 
  
  
 While the final itinerary is still being planned, a source close to the development informs that Jacqueline plans on taking the Canadian singer and songwriter on a tour of the city, pointing out landmarks like the Gateway of India and the Iskcon Temple in Juhu. They could drive down Colaba Causeway and around the Film City studio in Goregaon, maybe even take an auto ride through the buzzing streets of Bandra. 
 
 She would also like Bieber to spend some time with underprivileged children at the Dharavi slum. "She is also curating a multi-cuisine meal comprising of gourmet Maharashtrain, South Indian and Gujarati dishes at her new restaurant for him," adds the source. Mirror (March 14) had earlier reported that Jacqueline who already owns a restaurant back home in Colombo, is all set to start one in Mumbai with her bestie Mishali Sanghani.
 
 "We are working towards finalising the itinerary soon and we hope to give Bieber a multi-dimensional perspective of India and make it a memorable visit," says Arjun Jain, director of White Fox India who is bringing the 23-year old pop star's Purpose World Tour to India.
 
 Justin's set list will surely include chart-busters like 'Where Are Ü Now', 'Boyfriend', 'Love Yourself', 'Company', 'As Long As You Love Me' and 'Baby' among others.
 
 The 'Sorry' hit-maker is currently in the Australian leg of his tour. He performed at the Sydney's Olympic Park ANZ stadium on March 15, moving on to New Zealand's Auckland for another sold out show last Saturday.
 
  
  
  
  
 
