BHANGAR: The ruling Trinamool took a month to hold its first public meeting after the Bhangar killings on Thursday, keeping local MLA and minister   and his predecessor Arabul Islam away from the gathering. Senior Trinamool leaders — Subrata Bakshi, Sovan Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and   — made a desperate attempt to build bridges with the villagers yet to get over the trauma of police repression on January 17. Yet, there were few people from the affected villages — a reason why the Trinamool meeting was held at  , five kilometres away from the power project site at Machhibhanga village.

 Sensing the mood, Trinamool minister and in charge of the party’s South 24 Parganas unit Sovan Chatterjee began with a conciliatory note. “I have not come here to argue for the power project. I have come here to talk about Bhangar’s overall development. We are not going to do anything by force. The government will speak to the people of Bhangar over the power project. Work for the project will begin only if people want it,” Chatterjee said. The message didn’t go down well among the villagers. “Why is the minister talking in ifs and buts when Bhangar villagers want the project scrapped? The high-tension power lines have already affected our agricultural lands. Land prices are falling. We don’t want the project,” said Shiekh Ahidul from Khamarait village.
 
 Chatterjee, however, didn’t miss out to give a veiled threat to Ahidul and his ilk for coming in the way of Bhangar’s development. Without making a mention of the power project Chatterjee said: “I apologise if we have brought any distress to the people. Our CM has already said that the power project won’t proceed if people don’t want it. But we won’t tolerate those who are trying to break peace in Bhangar. Some such forces — CPM and Maoists — are instigating villagers to derail the development roadmap. Don’t take our patience for all these days as our weakness.”
 
 Minister Firhad Hakim saw the Bhangar episode as a “big conspiracy” against Mamata Banerjee’s development mission. Trinamool vice-president Mukul Roy wondered why villagers took the protest path four years after 40 bighas of land were purchased for the power project. 
 
