CHANDIGARH: Results today are going to decide the future  . As per the peoples’ perception, there seems to be a close contest between the Congress and   (AAP), precisely because of the anti-incumbency factor. The AAP seems to have an edge in the Malwa region, while Congress has an edge in Majha and Doaba. The final picture, however, will emerge only after the result are announced. Nevertheless, a hung verdict seems to be a remote possibility.

 Both Congress and AAP made drugs, corruption, unemployment, sacrilege, lawlessness and SYL/water as their main poll planks, while the SAD-BJP highlighted their achievements during the last 10 years of their rule. The issue of autonomy of states did not figure in any of the manifestos. 
 
 Already the competitive political populism and lack of vision has brought the state of Punjab to such a pass that 10 states/UTs are ahead of Punjab in terms of per capita income and we are basking in the past glory. In terms of gross state domestic product (GSDP), Punjab ranks 17th among all the major non special category states of India. Since 1992, the state’s growth rate has been below the national average. 
 
 The deceleration of growth rate for such a long period is a matter of serious concern and deserves the attention of all the political parties of Punjab, especially the one going to form the government in the second week of March 2017. Interestingly, none of the election manifestos gives a clear cut road map to mobilise the resources, accelerate growth and sustainable development, generate adequate employment and eradicate the menace of drug supply and addiction despite making them election issues. The deteriorating environment, depleting water table and water logging (with saline and arsenic elements) are other issues which need a time bound attention.
 
 The financial position of the state is so precarious that the debt burden is approximately Rs 1.85 lakh crores and the promised freebies in manifestoes would take this tally to a new height. This is particularly so as no political party has given a clear road map of resource mobilisation. The government at present is meeting even its current revenue needs by taking loan. There are hardly any resources with the government to undertake any investment leading to development. The government has been often resorting to ways and means and over drafting to meet even their committed liabilities. In fact, the very orientation of the state has changed from development to law and order ever since the decade of 1980s during the militancy period.
 
 Unfortunately, the state does not have any estimates of unemployment ever since 1998. There are no comprehensive study and estimates about drug addiction and abuse. Even we do not have the exact data about the closed industrial units and loss of employment and revenue because of that. The much hyped and advised crop diversification is yet to take place because of the absence of alternative crops and their marketing. Everybody talks about agro-based industrial development but the state does not have any industrial policy what to talk of agro-based industrial policy. So much so we do not have any agriculture and water policy.
 
 (The writer is a faculty at Crrid, Chandigarh, and former professor and head of economics at  , Patiala)
 
