
 
   Most consumer grievances in India are related to e-commerce 
 
 NEW DELHI: Smita Som noticed last week that she was sent a laptop skin by one of India’s largest e-tailers instead of an art print. She was furious and immediately called up the helpline and demanded a refund.

 As more Indians flock to the the internet to shop for their daily needs, 

 
   complaints are building up about e-commerce companies 
 
 .
 
 The National Consumer Helpline (NCH), a joint initiative of the consumer affairs department and   (IIPA), receives about 3.5 lakh grievances annually.
 
 This is only a fraction of the complaints registered by consumers, as there are other avenues for dispute redressal, including the consumer approaching the companies directly. But NCH said complaints relating to e-commerce overtook all other sectors since September.
 
 “Due to increased penetration of internet and more companies pushing for online sale of their products, the number of complaints has also increased,” said Prof Suresh Misra of IIPA. “We have tied up with 35 e-commerce companies for faster resolution of complaints and it’s doing well,” he added. E-commerce received the highest number of complaints this year, of the total complaints received by NCH. Most complaints against e-commerce companies were related to “paid amount not refunded”, according to data provided by NCH. Makemytrip, the country’s largest online travel agent, agreed.
 
 “Issues like customer requesting for full refund for airline tickets due to a personal emergency takes a while as it requires us to go to our partners for special waivers,” said a Makemytrip spokesperson. Most companies attributed the rising number of consumer calls to requests for cancellation and not complaints.
 
 The rising number of consumer grievances has not gone unnoticed by the government. In June last year, PM Modi had flagged concerns over the large number of consumer complaints relating to e-commerce including booking of tickets and hotel reservations. He had asked officials for a review of the nature of issues and had asked the consumer affairs ministry to list the number of complaints against each company.
 
 
