INDORE: In a state where dogs and ants often feed on corpses in hospitals, here is another shocker. The decomposed body of a man was found in the flooded basement of the government cancer hospital in Indore on Saturday — its arms and head having been either chewed off or simply rotten and merged with the putrid, stinking water that has been accumulating for 20 years.

 You read that right, the basement has been flooded for over two decades.
 
 The dead man is yet to be identified though some claim that it could be a fiftyish vagabond who used to roam the campus begging for food. People in and around the hospital — patients, families, medical staff and local residents — had got used to the stench from the basement over the years. But what was bothering them for the past two days was far worse. The stench hadn’t ever been this bad.
 
 “The smell was coming from the rear of the building since Friday. We thought a stray dog had drowned there. By this morning, it was unbearable. You couldn’t stand anywhere on the hospital campus and we informed the superintendent,” a senior nurse said.
 
 Hospital superintendent Dr Ramesh Arya asked his staff to begin a search. To their horror, they found the naked body of an unidentified man on a cooler in the flooded basement. The police were called in. A team from   station took away the rotting body for autopsy.
 
 “The staff claimed that he was a homeless man, who used to roam the hospital campus for food,” sub-inspector   said, adding that he had probably wandered into the basement and found the cooler a suitable place to sleep.
 
 “The body seemed to be around two days old. The victim’s head and an arm were mangled, with indications that it was reduced to pulp either due to maggots or external elements. The rest of the body was completely OK,” Bhadoriya said. Forensic experts have inspected the site and taken samples for investigation.
 
 The hospital has no CCTV camera and security guards are hard to spot in the building, which is a part of MGM Medical College’s 84-acre compound and wedged between the new OPD and MY Hospital.
 
 While police are investigating the bizarre death, the source of water gushing into the hospital’s basement is also a mystery. The basement area is always filled with 5 feet putrid water, which gets worse in the rainy season.
 
 “In the last 20-25 years, we have carried out many inspections to find out why water gushes into the basement but to no avail. We have installed a pump to drain out the water through the drainage line,” Dr Arya said.
 
 Adding to the misery, the pump is out of order and the hospital management has no other facility to evacuate water. It is damaging the foundation of the building and there is always the risk of waterborne and vector-borne diseases due to waterlogging.
 
 In 2012, the hospital management roped in experts from PWD to solve the problem. Even after spending Rs 12 lakh in replacing old tiles with a solid base of concrete, the eerie seepage continues.
 
