NAGPUR: Celebrity artist   (52), who hogged limelight, especially after Prime Minister   made his mention in ‘Mann Ki Baat’, a radio programme hosted by Modi himself, has called it a day from Indian Railways, to take art and painting to the grassroots.

 The breathtaking art of Biswaal has touched many hearts including none other than Modi, who after falling in love with it, made Biswaal’s mention on July 26, 2015 in ‘Man Ki Baat’.
 
 Biswaal opted for VRS on March 31 after serving railways for 26 years. “I was really finding it difficult to cope with pursuing my passion and field job as a chief ticket inspector (CTI). Getting unpredictable leaves for my engagements in and outside the country was an issue. Though I could have worked for a couple of years, I opted for VRS,” says Biswaal.
 
 “Now sky is the limit. May be after 60 years, when I would have retired, I may not have been able to concentrate what I have been doing now,” he adds. 
 
 The globally acclaimed artist says he was upbeat after getting blessings from none other than Modi whom he met at Railway Vikas Shibir in Surajkund near Delhi on November 20 last year. He had displayed his select paintings there and was directly invited by railway minister Suresh Prabhu.
 
 “I did not wash my hands that day after handshake with  , who recalled making my mention in ‘Man Ki Baat’ and had remarked ‘aage badho’ (go ahead),” recalls Biswaal.
 
 Unlike his ‘live’ painting of rain-soaked Korba railway station going viral over social media in 2015, his message about VRS, posted on March 28, too went the same way with his fans posting it further in various groups.
 
 After ‘Mann Ki Baat’ praise, Biswaal the very next day sketched the same Korba railway station painting taking liberty to sketch Modiji as a ‘man among common man’ in the painting. It was also displayed in the Rail Vikas Shibir.
 
 “Call it a coincidence, the same day when message of VRS went viral, I received a call from Prabhu’s office revealing that Korba station painting was going to reach PM’s house. I was really overwhelmed. It is like a return gift for me,” says Biswaal.
 
 Biswaal’s VRS message with his own caricature showing him left out in the last coach with all praise for railways drew wide attention of fans.
 
 “Railways gave me identity and fame. Don’t think that Biswaal has been derailed. Railway will continue to be my role model in my art. It is now real testing time for me,” he says.
 
 Biswaal says it was really getting difficult. He has been lined with many proposals. One of them was from   where he has been offered to run an art school. He is also visiting Turkey in April followed by Russia/Denmark in September. He also has offers in hand to be a visiting faculty in arts colleges in the country. Besides, commercially his paintings are in big demand.
 
 The day Biswaal opted VRS, he was among 11 personalities invited by   government for felicitation, who made the state proud. Hailing from Pallahara village in Angul district in Odisha, he was publicly felicitated there too on April 1, also the Odisha Day.
 
 Biswaal, who shifted from a small railway quarter at Ajni to his own house in Godhni, now has a studio where he has enough space to give justice to his art. His latest work is on Kathmandu in Nepal, which is spiritually connected with India. He showed painting of famous Pashupati temple, and here too, he connects it with India by rail.
 
