NEW DELHI: Seventy-year-old Dilip Bhatt has decided that enough is enough. 

 Having waited for decades for successive councillors to come good on their promises, he has finally taken the plunge into politics himself: he will contest the upcoming municipal elections from Rajinder Nagar. 
 
 Bhatt’s aim is to ensure basic services, such as smooth and clean roads, proper drainage and better sanitation facilities — things that have remained a pipe dream for his Kathputli Colony cohabitants. 
 
 Bhatt, an artist from Rajasthan, made this city his own years ago and it is in Kathputli Colony where he has raised his five children and become a voice of his community. “People from outside the constituency have represented us for a long time. They are hardly bothered about us. The poor don’t get pensions — even the basic facilities are missing,” says Bhatt, who claims that his day starts at 6am and he doesn’t go to bed before 12 midnight. 
 
 “People here have huge expectations from me and I cannot disappoint them. I have to deliver,” he says.
 
 Ruma Sikka is another senior citizen who’s defying age to bring about “change”. Sikka will contest the elections as an Independent from Vasant Vihar. Sikka says she has spent almost her entire life in the south Delhi locality and knows the area inside out. “I fought against a prostitution racket that was flourishing here and helped police drive out drug addicts,” she claims. 
 
 Sikka alleges that people tried to create obstacles in her way as she sought to put an end to unauthorised parking in her locality. “I want to become a councillor myself so that I can do things independently,” she says. Her ambitions haven’t found many takers in her family and, so, she has decided to hire professionals for her campaign. The 70-something Sikka claims that she works nearly 18 hours daily. 
 
 Devendra Singh Qurta, AAP's 66-year-old candidate from GTB Nagar, is a bit luckier in the sense that his son is managing his campaign. Qurta promises house-tax waiver, smoother roads and better drainage facilities. However, he faces stiff competition from BJP, Congress and Swaraj India candidates who have promised the same. “Given a chance, I will transform the area in a year,” he says confidently.
 
 Besides AAP volunteers, Qurta is relying on friends and neighbours to push his campaign.
 
 There are old guards on BJP’s list, too. Its candidate from Rajouri Garden, Colonel Oberai, is in his mid-70s, whereas Tilak Raj Katari, who is contesting from Shalimar Bag, is 65. A BJP functionary said that while many young sitting councillors have been denied tickets, the party has fielded at least 10 people who are above 60 years of age. “When we win the corporation elections, there should be adequate representation to experienced people too,” he said. Swaraj India has fielded Maheshwar Dutt (70), a retired DU professor, from Dilshad Garden. “I have been working for people in my area for 35 years on issues such as parks, sanitation and environment,” claims Dutt. 
 
 “I feel I will be better equipped to deal with their problems if I become a councillor,” he says. 
 
 Dutt also claims that he is putting in 18 hours of work daily and, like others, is confident of winning an election where the focus has largely been on youth.
 
 
