MUMBAI: India’s record   now have a distinct flavor of home: Local bankers, who are leading the charge on behalf of local investors.
 
  Indian funds and retail buyers of equity have knocked overseas investors off the leader-board this year, and the biggest beneficiaries of the changing trend have been local  .
  
  Four of the top five on the league-table for equity markets deals by volume and value in the six months to June are local banks. Unlike their global peers,  ,   or   have capitalized on the strong demand from domestic institutional investors — insurance companies and mutual funds — and from companies riding the boom to unlock value through share or bond sales.
  
  Data from Primedatabase show that IIFL, Kotak, SBI Caps,  ,  ,   and   are among the top 10 investment banks in primary market equity deal rankings in the first half of 2017. Together, these banks have cornered about 80% of the equity deal flow to the country.
  
  
  “Most of the IPOs and QIPs in the last several months have seen majority participation from domestic investors... and domestic bankers are much more equipped to sell issues to local institutions, compared with foreign bankers,” said V Jayasankar, senior ED & head of equity capital markets at Kotak Mahindra Capital Company.
  
  “Also, the current (low) fee structure is not adequate for foreign i-bankers”.
  
  
 
  Nudging out their global peers that have internal thresholds on minimum fees are domestic banks, which have mastered the art of cornering deals through undercutting. Indian clients, who are generally price sensitive, prefer the lowest bidder and this results in many global banks not making it to the final list.
  
  The three global banks that are in the top 10 are Bank Of America-Merrill Lynch, Duetsche Bank and Citi. The global banks, with their excellent worldwide network, have access to foreign institutional investors that have long have been bullish on the Indian markets. Some of the foreign bankers ET spoke to declined to comment. 
