Nagpur: All the specialities related to paediatric health care are set to come under one roof at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) soon, with the college proposing a  .

 Once approved, it will be the first such centrally funded institute in Maharashtra and fourth in the country after Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru.
 
 On March 15, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) had pointed out three loopholes in the proposed project. One of the loopholes was no view of the public works department (PWD) about the project. At present, IGGMCH is busy getting views of the department. About 15 days ago, a PWD team inspected the site.
 
 The institute will be set up in six floors on 4 acres identified at IGGMCH. There will be two floors for underground parking. The project will be completed in three phases.
 
 The paediatric department of IGGMCH has prepared a report while proposing the project. “The mortality rate at the IGGMCH’d paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) is 18-22%, while it’s 21-30% at Neo-Natal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), which is quite high. Such a rate is largely attributed to lack of infrastructure, including manpower, equipment and space. We can significantly reduce mortality by establishing the institute,” the report stated.
 
 The project was initiated by Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari. NGO Pandit Deen Dayal Institute of Medical Science and Research and Human Resources had proposed it to Gadkari on December 20, 2016. Gadkari had apparently written to Union health minister JP Nadda along with state medical education minister Girish Mahajan regarding the project.
 
 NGO director Dr Viral Kamdar, who is also advisor to Gadkari, said, “Several paediatric patients are referred to specialized care. At present, all of them are not available under single roof in Central India.”
 
 “The institute will also offer a platform to paediatricians across the country for dissemination of knowledge, publish periodic journals of the institute and also offer training to doctors, nurses, social workers and technicians,” he added.
 
 
