GURGAON: There are some ads that become a part of memories and often bring about nostalgia when discussed years down the lane. Marketers look for compelling stories to connect with viewers on an emotional level. 

 Samsung’s latest advertisement, conceived and made by the Gurgaon-based Cheil India, may have struck that emotional chord with viewers. The audio visual ad by the consumer durables major, with a ho hum title ‘We will take care of you, wherever you are’, is anything but unimaginative. It showcases a visually challenged girl as the protagonist in a television commercial for after-sales services of a product that sells on the sense of vision. The commercial has been a major hit on YouTube since its release late in the evening on December 30 in India.
 
 By then, it was already the most viewed advertisement on YouTube for December in India. According to the creative team at Cheil India, the creative agency behind it, the film has crossed all records for an ad film made in India ever.
 
 “The kind of response the commercial has received is overwhelming. Most of the feedback we’ve received goes beyond professional feedback and criticism, and connects at a human level,” said Tarvinderjit Singh, executive creative director of Cheil India, the Indian subsidiary of Samsung’s global marketing solutions company headquartered in Gurgaon. With nearly 600 employees across five offices, Cheil India is one of the fastest-growing marketing companies in south-west Asia. “The commercial, which is set in the Himalayas, shows a   engineer, Amit, receiving a call from a customer, a young girl named Drishti, who needs her TV fixed in time for her favourite show. Amit makes his way through difficult terrain, even clearing a herd on the way, to be on time. But when he reaches the hostel where   lives, he is taken aback to find out she is visually challenged. “Even during the narration of the brief, we had mixed reactions from the client about the fact the protagonist lacked vision,” said Singh. As the film continues, the young girl calls her visually-challenged friends to join her for the reality show, as soon as her TV is fixed. “The girl singing on screen is from our hostel, and she is my best friend,” says Drishti.
 
 It’s this moment that connects with viewers. “I’ve seen grown-ups cry after watching the film,” said Tarvinder. He added the film is an attempt to send a message that marketers and ad makers have not forgotten specially-abled people.
 
 Singh said Samsung had the merit to go with the brief, and has been paid back with the response the film has received. “We’re happy to receive an overwhelming response from consumers across India, who have given a big thumbs up to the campaign, with around 13 million views on YouTube in just 96 hours since its launch,” said  , chief marketing officer, Samsung India.
 
 
