Coimbatore: The general public is forced to wait for hours at regional transport offices (RTOs) across the state to get their licences as the parivahan website goes down almost every day. 

 The technical problem that began three months ago, when the website to upload documents shifted to parivahan.gove.in, also known as sarathi 4.0, from sarathi.nic.in, is yet to be rectified. RTOs across the state had on several occasions taken up the issue with the central government officials through mails and messages, but in vain. 
 
 “All the RTOs are facing issues and officials are forced to work till 12am everyday due to slow servers and outdated technology,” said an official with a city RTO.
 
 On Tuesday and Wednesday, people were forced to wait for more than eight hours at the central Coimbatore RTO because of slow server. R Ananthanarayanan, a retired official from RS Puram who reported at the RTO for vehicle test at 8am on Tuesday, had to wait there till 5pm. 
 
 “We were told at 12 noon that the server was slowed down and they were unable to upload documents. They said it will be rectified in an hour. I skipped both breakfast and lunch and waited in the queue as I didn’t want to be absent when my name was called out,” he said. 
 
 Just like him, R Rakesh, a businessman, had left his day’s work to get his driving licence. “The problem is that all of us lose a day’s work. At 4pm, the officials told us that we may have to come next day. This is very unfair. Before implementing a new technology, the government should ensure that they have the resources, technology and infrastructure in place,” he said. 
 
 Another senior citizen said he had been coming to the RTO for two days. “The server goes down every time,” said R Balasundaram. 
 
 Regional transport officials, who are clueless on how to handle the crowd, often end up getting involved in arguments. And sometimes, they end up exchanging blows. 
 
 “We do not know how to handle the crowd. Though we don’t want to make the people wait, we have no other choice. All the services, be it filing applications, making payments, getting pass order, taking photographs or issuing licences, require us to use the website. Since all the RTOs across the country use the same website, the server often slows down and we are unable to process,” an official said. 
 
 The facility comes under the ministry of electronics and information technology and RTOs across the country have to report their problems to the centre in Hyderabad. Showing the social media portal where RTOs across the country raise their issues, an official said the issue wasn’t city specific. 
 
 “The problem is faced by RTOs across the country. Our office alone receives nearly 350-400 applications a day for various services. Imagine the amount of work that gets held back because of the technical glitch. On top of it, we are forced to face angry applicants,” said an officer. 
 
 “Sometimes, the issue gets rectified within 20 minutes and sometimes it takes hours. The government needs to find a solution. We are under-staffed and 60% of vacancies are reported in all RTOs. The government should help us generate revenue for it,” said another official adding, “We sometimes work till 12am whenever the website works to clear the piled up applications.” 
 
 
