NAGPUR: The BJP and Shiv Sena not entering into an alliance for the upcoming civic elections has become a matter to rejoice for both the parties.

 After Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray made a statement of not forging an alliance with the BJP for the   (BMC) elections, party leaders celebrated the decision in a grand manner on Friday. Shiv Sena leaders even launched an open war against BJP and went on to level many allegations.
 
 Both the parties feel that the equations in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections are very different from BMC polls.
 
 On the other hand, though the Congress and NCP have decided to contest the elections separately, both the parties have still kept the doors open for each other. If the two parties remain firm on their earlier decision, the elections will be an all-party fight as the   (BSP) too has ruled out any alliance.
 
 “Thackeray’s decision came as a big boost for all Shiv Sena leaders and party workers in the city. The BJP took advantage of Shiv Sena in the past in the city and obtained power at the NMC. Now, we will show our strength. The BJP has failed in its ten-year rule at the civic body. The BJP-ruled NMC witnessed a series of scams. It is executing cement road works only for monetary gains, but it is a big loss for the citizens and city’s environment,” said Shiv Sena district president Satish Harde.
 
 “The BJP even failed to fulfil its promises. The city does not require Metro rail at all. Overall development of the city could have been done with the money being spent on the project,” Harde said.
 
 He said the party will contest majority of 151 seats as it could not manage a few in West and  .
 
 BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle said the party has nothing to worry and not entering into an alliance with Shiv Sena makes no difference. “Shiv Sena has no presence in the city. It’s good that the party took the decision to weigh its strength in the city,” he said.
 
 On Congress-NCP alliance, Kohle said the BJP has nothing to do any other party. “The BJP is contesting the elections on the basis of its party workers, a slew of developmental projects planned and executed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as well as Union minister   and the support of Nagpurians,” he said.
 
 Kohle added that talks were on with RPI (Athawale) for alliance and the final decision will be taken in a day or two.
 
 The BJP’s city parliamentary board will meet on January 29 in the presence of Fadnavis and Gadkari to finalize the candidates. The party is likely to release the list of candidates on January 30, February 1 and 2.
 
 Congress city president Vikas Thakre said alliance with Lokmanch has been executed and talks are on with  , Republican Front and RPI (khoripa). “The Congress is forging alliance with those coming with proposals. We are yet to receive any concrete proposal from the NCP. So, there is nothing to comment,” he said.
 
 Thakre said the Congress will gain if all the major parties contest separately. “The Congress won the NMC elections when it contested individually in ward with three seats in the 2002 elections,” he said.
 
 The NCP approached Congress for alliance over a week ago. The Congress passed a resolution not forge any alliance with NCP, following which the leaders of NCP replied with the same decision.
 
 Sources said the Congress and NCP are trying to tie-up in other cities and, hence, the chances of talks resuming between the two parties in Nagpur cannot be ruled out. “The Congress and NCP will reap benefits of an alliance if there is no tie-up between the BJP and Shiv Sena,” sources added.
 
 
