BENGALURU: Rekha, a techie, suffers from   (MPS), a rare disease caused by deficiency of the  ,   The 23-year-old has trouble hearing and breathing, her vision is compromised and she’s confined to a wheelchair. Despite the odds, Rekha is taking part in a unique race on February 26 and she’s thrilled about it.

 Race for 7 – a 7,000-metre run/walk to spread awareness about 7,000 documented rare diseases in the country — will be flagged off at St Joseph’s Indian High School. 
 
 Harshit Yadav, 9, is among the participants. The boy is afflicted with Gaucher’s disease, caused due to the accumulation of fatty substances in organs like liver and spleen. Liver enlargement, neurological ailments and anemia are some of the disease’s manifestations. 
 
 An initiative by Organisation for Rare Diseases India (ORDI), Race for 7 seeks to highlight the challenges faced by the likes of Rekha and Harshit. The event is open to all and intends to get 7,000 participants, each one representing one of the 7,000 rare diseases.
 
 Prasanna Shirol, founder member of ORDI and father of a patient with a rare disease, said: “Rare diseases are not as rare as we think they are. It is estimated there are 70 million patients with rare diseases in India; one out of every 20 Indians is affected.”
 
 “Through Race for 7, we want to amplify the voice of patients with rare diseases to create greater awareness about the needs and problems of the community. We invite Bengalureans to come out in large numbers to lend support to the patients and their caregivers,” he added.
 
 Dr Meenakshi Bhat, consultant, clinical genetics, Centre for Human Genetics, said: “The biggest challenges these patients face are to do with diagnosis, treatment and access to affordable care. On an average, it takes seven years for a rare disease to be diagnosed; 80% of the diseases are genetic while the rest are the result of infections (bacterial or viral), allergies and environmental causes. Also, 50% of the patients are children who rarely make it past their fifth birthday due to the complications.”
 
 
 
 
 Some rare diseases common in Karnataka and India: 
 
 Gaucher’s
 
 Pompe
 
 Muscular dystrophy
 
 Haemophilia
 
 Thalassemia
 
 MPS (mucopolysaccharidosis)
 
 Autism spectrum disorder
 
 Retinoblastoma
 
 Retinitis pigmentosa
 
 SMA (spinal muscular atrophy)
 
 Fragile X
 
 Rety syndrome
 
 PID (primary immune deficiency)
 
 MSUD (maple syrup urine disease)
 
 Handigodu syndrome
 
 Ichthyosis
 
 Marfan syndrome
 
 Down’s syndrome
 
 Myasthenia gravis
 
 Parkinson’s disease
 
 Osteopetrosis
 
 William disease
 
 Wilson disease
 
 Alkaptonuria
 
 Trysomi 21
 
 Sickle cell anaemia
 
 Scleroderma
 
 Cystic fibrosis
 
 
