CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu joined GST only under compulsion and not on its own volition, said state commercial taxes minister   on the floor of the assembly on Wednesday.

 He said when Narendra Modi was chief minister of Gujarat, he opposed implementation of GST, but after becoming Prime Minister, he wanted all states to join and also passed a Constitution amendment bill to facilitate it.
 
 “Amma opposed GST as she did not want states to lose their power. But after the Constitution was amended and all other states started joining the new tax regime, we could not be out of GST,” said Veeramani.
 
 The issue was raised by DMK MLAs E Ramar and   during a debate on commercial taxes department. “GST stinged traders as well as consumers like a scorpion after it was implemented. Many products and services which were out of the tax regime are now under GST. Some of them attract 28% tax,” said Ramar. He said even pencils, pens and other commonly used products are taxed at high rates.
 
 Ramar said one of the reasons for poor tax receipt in Tamil Nadu was the existing vacancies in the commercial taxes department. He also faulted the government for not appointing a full-time commissioner for commercial taxes.
 
 Eswarappan said even rice was taxed if it was packed in bags. “Traders and consumers are equally hit. Though GST is there in several other countries, only in India one finds five different tax slabs under GST. Consumers and traders are confused over the new tax system,” said Eswarappan.
 
 He criticised the government for not educating traders and other stakeholders before GST was implemented. “When VAT was implemented in 2007-08, DMK government under M Karunanidhi had 28 meetings with various stakeholders, but it is not known whether such meetings were held before rolling out GST,” said Eswarappan.
 
 Veeramani as well as finance minister   said it was only due to TN’s opposition that several products and services were not taxed. TN also forced the Centre to agree on allocating compensation to states that would lose revenue after the introduction of GST. “It is only after implementing GST that we came to know about the tax rate on various products and services. Since July 1, several stakeholders are meeting us as they meet you. All these will be raised in the next GST council meeting in August,” said Veeramani.
 
