CHENNAI:   operates more than 200 buses out of the   — built to accommodate 20 vehicles — and this causes passengers and bus crews no end of trouble.

 Passengers say they have to deal with long traffic snarls while searching for their buses outside the facility and then put up with traffic snarls that are a spillover of a sea of vehicles that come to a halt outside the tiny terminus. They say the terminus often creates traffic gridlocks on GNT Road during office hours.
 
 Space becomes even more of a constraint in the terminal in the north Chennai suburb when motorcycles encroach upon MTC bus bays.
 
 Fleets plying to rural areas parked outside halt the smooth flow of MTC buses from the terminus bound for different parts of the city, commuters said. Lines of paddy-laden trucks that halt on several stretches of   add to the problem.
 
 Red Hills is an important junction and officials estimate that around 50,000 people use the   every day. It is where people from several nearby villages and distant towns head to before boarding buses to destinations in the city. Residents in the localities near Red Hills and on Tiruvallur and GNT Road depend on buses departing from Red Hills to get to various parts of Chennai.
 
 MTC operates 210 buses out of the facility from where they head to different neighbourhoods in the city and rural areas like Gummidipoondi, Ponneri, Pulicat and Periyapalayam in Tiruvallur district. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corpn (Villupuram) also operates 10 buses from Red Hills and so do a few private service providers.
 
 Babu, a sales representative, who frequents Red Hills, said he wastes no end of time as buses approaching and departing from the terminus tangle among themselves and with other vehicles.
 
 “It happens during the peak hours, both in the morning and evening,” Babu said.
 
 MTC crews say they have to battle for space on a regular basis, while parking their vehicles and driving out of the terminus. “Two-wheelers in the bus bays add to the problem,” an MTC driver said.
 
 Naravarikuppam Town Panchayat officials, who maintain the bus terminus, said there is no scope for expansion because there is no vacant land left around the facility.
 
 “We have asked the owners of a theatre to shut an entry that its patrons use to park motorcycles in the terminus,” an official said.
 
 
