When you are in love, it’s natural for you to shower your loved one with lots of affection. But what if, unknowingly, you overdo it making your beloved start resenting you? Says clinical psychologist Varkha Chakravarthy, “Your love may know no bounds, but you must know that too much love can also affect your relationship and may not go down well with your partner.” Here’s how you can know if you are constantly smothering your loved one.

 
 
 If you are someone who constantly needs reassurance and is insecure about his/her relationship, it can end up smothering your partner. This can be caused by jealousy, fear or anxiety, but it’s the surest way to drive someone away. Says relationship counsellor Nisha Hamiz, “You must remember that love is supposed to make you feel secure and not insecure. Your partner shouldn’t have to tell you, time and again, that he/she loves you and is there for you.”
 
 
 
 Everyone wants to have a voice and say in their relationship. But if you are somebody who does not believe in giving the same opportunity to your partner, then your relationship will surely go down the drain. Says Arindom Sengupta, a 27-year-old banking professional, “At times, I get really irritated with my girlfriend because she constantly forces her way on me. For example, if I do something, she nags and tells me that this is not how it was supposed to be done. Due to this, we’ve had several conflicts and have also broken up quite a number of times.”
 
 
 
 Do you tend to text your partner or call them an insane number of times to keep checking on them? While it’s okay to check on your loved one a couple of times in a day, too many calls and texts can be pestering. Resist the urge to engage in this behaviour. This stems from fear and other negative emotions and can end up making the relationship feel more like a prison to the other person. A healthy relationship is supposed to offer respect and trust.
 
 
 
 Do you constantly feel the urge to discuss the state of your relationship with your partner? Though it’s great to be on the same page, if it’s your insecurity that’s making you seek reassurance, beware! You must realise that regular discussions are not about love, but being selfish.
 
 
 
 There are many couples, who are deeply in love, and are looking to take the relationship a step further. However, one often doesn’t understand that there is a right time to broach the topic. Marriage counsellor, Romi Saha says, ‘It isn’t restricted to women alone, there are many men who regularly pressurise their women to start thinking about marriage. There are a few checkpoints in the bond that you need to cross before getting to the final destination.”
 
 
 
 It is but fair to be transparent in any relationship, but you don’t really need a justification for what your partner is doing all the time. HR professional Mehul Ravjiani says, “My ex-wife would often ask me where I was going post work hours and would keep a tab on my outings with colleagues. I was answerable to her for everything that I would do on a day-to-day basis. After a point, it started getting claustrophobic and I eventually had to end the marriage.”
 
 
 
 It’s difficult for many people to differentiate between loving someone and stifling them with love. This not only leads to several conflicts in the relationship, but can also signal its end. When you love someone, you want what’s best for the person, even if it means that your relationship takes a different route than what you had in mind. In contrast, when you smother someone, you prioritise your own needs for connection, as opposed to what the other person needs or wants. 
 
