As he kick-starts his campaign for a big fight in Jalalabad, Congress nominee  , the sitting MP from Ludhiana and Congress nominee for Jalalabad, confirms that he volunteered to fight the Badals from Lambi or Jalalabad. Speaking to Vibhor Mohan, he said while Sukhbir Singh Badal's party was the root cause of the drug menace, AAP's Bhagwant Mann needed to take politics more seriously. As convener of the Punjab campaign committee, Bittu said Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is now in Congress fold, is a better communicator than Mann. Excerpts...

 
 After AAP nominated its leaders against Badal family, the party leadership asked me if I was interested in taking on chief minister Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi. The idea was to take on both SAD and AAP with one stroke for the sake of Punjab and the party . I readily agreed and the party leadership made me speak to  , who appreciated my decision.He said the party would field a formidable leader from Jalalabad too. However, there was a rethink in the party for both the seats. Captain saab took the call that it has to be him against the chief minister. That is how I was shifted to Jalalabad.
 
 
 Though both are on a weak footing, it has to be Sukhbir.He is the deputy CM and his party has a cadre here. I may not be able to spend thousands of crores on development works in the area, but people will trust me when I make a promise. Saving the young generation is the biggest question that Punjab faces. Given the fight I had launched against drugs as the   president and the legacy of my grandfather (Congress CM late Beant Sin gh) to have ended terrorism in the state, people of Jalalabad will believe that I have that track record of honouring my word.
 
 Bhagwant Mann tries to bring a smile on people's faces by making them laugh, but he is still not up to the mark in terms of serious politics. People want implementation of plans for lasting happiness. Though I do not doubt his intent, he cannot take politics lightly as is evident from his frequent goof ups. If Mann is an MP, I too take pride in my performance in the Lok Sabha. I top the list in terms of attendance and raising questions. I never miss a chance to raise youth issues. If you compare Mann with Sidhu, the latter is a better communicator. When he campaigns for Congress, he will have a richer vocabulary and better sarcasm at work. Sidhu is a serious politician at the same time.
 
 
 It is Sukhbir Badal's party that is the root cause of the drug problem and responsible for bringing Punjab to this situation. People trust Congress leadership for implementation of plans, and Kejriwal and Mann's party scores poorly on this front.Congress has the leadership to fulfil its promises. Winning or losing is not the question in Jalalabad, it is all about putting up a tough fight.
 
 
 
 I cannot understand their logic. How can the Congress be helping the Akalis in any way. It is an irrelevant charge.
 
