ROHTAK: Having learned lessons from the violence during   agitation last year, which led to law and order problem in Jat-dominated districts Sonipat and Jhajjar, the police have claimed to be prepared on many levels ahead of another stir quta by the community. 

 Close to the first anniversary of the reservation stir,   (AIJASS), an umbrella organisation leading pro-quota struggle, has given a call to renew the next round of protests from January 29. The call has been given to launch stir at all districts of the state in support of Jat community inclusion in the other backward classes (OBC) category.
 
 Rohtak superintendent of police,   said they had requested for 15 companies of paramilitary forces beside training eight companies of police with each having 100 personnel to deal with the situation.
 
 “The force would be equipped with rubber pallets, plastic bullets and a mini-Vajra vehicle used in anti-riots situation to enter in congested lanes at their disposal to be used to tackle the development,” Nain said.
 
 The force would not be called from police stations disturbing routine cases pertaining to public. The eight companies would remain ready with their specific roles in anti-riot situation.
 
 He said the SHO to deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and SP had been touring the sensitive areas to convince the people to not participate in any anti-social activity.
 
 He further added that their goal would remain to avoid confrontation. He said that a team led by inspector general of police (IGP) have been carrying out people connect program and were receiving huge response from.
 
 Notably, the maximum number of FIRs during Jat stir were registered in Rohtak at 1,212 followed by Sonipat (192) and Jhajjar (172).
 
  Virk said the police were fully prepared in the backdrop of Jat agitation call on January 29 in all the affected districts. Virk said they had prepared in a manner that stir should not get violent like last year, but if it occurs, then they are ready for it.
 
 
