Valentine’s Day is day to express your love towards that special one. However, lately, many have started to interpret this day in a broader sense. Therefore, Nashik collegians decided to show their love towards their city, and show others as well. Around 100 students of Chitrakala Mahavidyalala, KK Wagh Fine Arts College, KTHM College and MVP Architecture College said ‘I Love You’ to Nashik by painting   and paintings on the walls of Nashik Road   on February 14.

 “These students approached to me a few months back. They had some ideas about beautification of our railway station. I showed their plan to our senior officers. They also loved the concept and approved it. Therefore, we decided to go ahead with the activity,” informs MV Saxena, station manager of   railway station. 
 
 Graffiti and social messages on station walls
 
 Thousands of commuters from different cities and states arrive and depart from this station. Then what is the better platform to make our say heard? Lalit Mahajan, one of the organisers, asks. “We are painting graffiti centred on the themes of Swacch Bharat, Swacch station, prevention of child labour and empowerment of women among others,” shares Lalit Mahajan, one of the organisers of the activity. “Not only social messages, we are also focusing on Nashik’s unique identity in our paintings. We have themes like real heroes of Nashik, natural heritage of Nashik and cultural heritage of Nashik among others,” he further adds.
 
 
 
 Beautification of Nashik Road railways station is a massive task undertaken by these students. “It will take us a couple of days to complete the entire project. We will be painting 8-9 walls in the station premises and one wall is 15 by 120 feet. Additionally, we will be painting three crossover bridges also. I am hopeful that we will be able to complete it within time,” says Jay Chavan, a fine arts student.
 
 
 
 
 What if the commuters suffer while these young artists are at work? “No, commuters won’t be disturbed due to our work. We have volunteers for smooth functioning. We will be contently in touch with each other through walkie talkie,” informs Neha Sharma, another one form the group of organisers. 
 
