BENGALURU: The fate of 2 lakh students hangs in balance as the   (INC) recently removed   from its list of recognised institutes.
The trigger was a   issued in May that said   do not require the  .
 
 With the INC knocking these institutes off its list, nursing graduates from Karnataka won't be able to secure jobs outsi de the state and abroad. Besi des, the order has hit fresh admissions this year. Earlier, setting up of a nursing in stitute in the state required ap provals from INC, the state government, the Karnataka State Nursing Council and Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science. Also, it had to apply for renewal every year.Now, approvals from the state, KSNC and RGUHS are enough.
 
 Girijamba Devi, secretary, Trained Nurses' Association of India (TNAI), Karnataka branch, said: “With this order, the government has restricted students' opportunities. Besides, Karnataka, home to most nursing institutes in the country, is losing students because of the uncertainty.“
 
 The state government had passed the order in December, but withdrew it after TNAI's objection. “In February , the nursing council sent a letter to the government, stating if the government chooses not to make INC's approval mandatory , then it won't recognize the state institutes. We cannot expect all our students to work only in Karnataka,“ said Girijamba.
 
 P Bhattacharya, a fourth-year nursing student at a private institute in the city , said: “Besides limiting our scope of getting jobs, the order makes it impossible to get education loans since no bank is willing to give loan without INC's recognition.“
 
 While the Students Nurses Association has filed a case in the Karnataka high court two months ago, TNAI members have spoken to the law minister. They hope for a response by weekend.
 
 “If we do not get a positive response, 2 lakh students, faculty and TNAI members will protest the government order,“ said Girijamba.
 
 
 
 
 “The government order was issued based on the Karnataka Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors' Act.When it comes to running a nursing institute in the state, the INC's approval isn't required as the council focuses only on quality of education. Several cases have been filed in the high court and we are awaiting its order,“ a medical education officer told TOI.
 
