 shudders to think what would have happened to Goan   if the Delhi High Court had not directed All India Football Federation (AIFF) to consider   Sports Club for a place in the   on merit.
 
  Churchill Brothers have been fighting a lone battle against the AIFF – in courts and Fifa -- after they were left out of the I-League for their failure to meet the stringent club licensing criteria. They were out in the cold for two years and, four writ petitions later, AIFF were forced to re-instate the former champions.
  
  “Senior counsels who I met in court kept asking me if I will never give up (my fight against AIFF). It’s been a tough battle but we never gave up. My daddy’s ( ) faith in me kept me going,” said Valanka, the Churchill Brothers CEO who was at the forefront of this battle.
  
  Churchill’s return to the I-League comes at a time when three Goan bigwigs – Salgaocar FC, Dempo SC and Sporting Clube de Goa – have all pulled out in protest against AIFF’s plans to restructure domestic football. According to the proposal, three-year-old Indian Super League (ISL) will be the new top-tier league from next season while I-League will be relegated to League One with no promotion to the top league.
  
  Only three I-League teams – Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and Bengaluru FC – are guaranteed of a place in the top league. That leaves Goan football with a feeling of step-motherly treatment but Valanka feels there is an immediate need to look at the bigger picture.
  
  “I have immense respect for all three Goan club owners. They have contributed immensely but can you imagine what would have happened to Goan players, if Churchill Brothers were not part (of I-League),” asked Valanka.
  
  Valanka has a point. The exit of three clubs left local players without any option in Goa. Many of the top performers like Mandar Rao Desai, Lenny Rodrigues (Bengaluru FC), Romeo Fernandes, Rowllin Borges (East Bengal), Laxmikant Kattimani (Mumbai FC) have all reluctantly packed their bags, but for several others, Churchill’s return is welcome relief.
  
  “We want to provide Goan players with a platform to showcase their skills. We have tied-up with the Goa Football Development Council (GFDC). We have age-group teams, and if these kids cannot aspire to play for a top club, they will give up even before they start dreaming,” explained Valanka.
  
  Not with a reason, Churchill’s focus this season has been on Goan players. Thirteen of the 21 domestic players registered so far are Goans, and although many of them may not make your head turn, the likes of Keenan Almeida (captain), Brandon Fernandes, Clifford Miranda, Rowilson Rodrigues, Denzil Franco and Adil Khan are all established performers.
  
  “The time was (too) short to prepare a team but we have done our best. We have the passion, we have been champions before, and when the team takes the field, I am sure they won’t be blamed for lack of effort,” said Valanka.
