NEW DELHI: Kept under wraps but with its content regularly hinted at during the power tussle between the lieutenant governor of Delhi and the state government, the report of the three-member committee that pored through the decisions taken by the AAP government and found several of them suspect is finally in public domain. Procured by   through an RTI and released on Thursday, the report has roiled the political waters ahead of the April 23 municipal corporation polls.

 The committee was constituted by  , then the LG, soon after Delhi high court determined on August 4, 2016 that the Union government and the lieutenant governor had primacy in the governance of Delhi. In this context, Jung wanted the decisions taken by the AAP government scrutinised and, accordingly set up the panel comprising three former officials: comptroller and auditor general  , chief election commissioner N Gopalaswami and central vigilance commissioner Pradeep Kumar.
 
 The seed of the power struggle that eventually over took all functional niceties between the two offices was sown on February 25, 2015, a fortnight after the   assumed power for the second time. That day , chief minister Arvind Kejriwal issued directions that all files relating to “reserved subjects, i.e. public order, police and land will be submitted to Lt Governor by the relevant department through the chief minister“.
 
 The LG wrote to the CM on April 15 to say this was a misinterpretation of the rules.But disregarding this, on April 29, Kejriwal again told all departments that files pertaining to subjects transferred to the Delhi Assembly should be “decided at the appropriate level up to the office of the chief minister without bothering the office of the Lt Governor“.
 
 Subsequent to this, the various departments of the government, in following the CM's instructions, fell foul of the Transaction of Business Rules (TBR) that required the LG to be the approving authority in many matters.
 
 It was Kejriwal's directives of May 17 that actually heightened the clash. The CM informed all secretaries, heads of departments and state ministers, that the LG was bar red from issuing any direction to government officials “bypassing the council of ministersministers“. He instructed officials to submit any direct order by the LG to the minister concerned or the CM and “action will be taken only on the written direction of the CMminister“. A copy of the letter presenting the CM's interpretation of TBR was marked to Jung.
 
 A day later, five ministers issued “identical standing orders“. The scrutinising panel observed that these acts were in contravention of the norms pointed out by the LG in his letter to the CM and that the ministers had “exceeded their powers“.
 
 When the   members pored through 404 files, they noted the CM and his ministers didn't consult the law department while issuing ordersdirections. The government didn't confer with the law department when approaching Delhi high court and Supreme Court on Delhi's power structure.
 
 The approach to the court itself was the result of the Union home ministry precluding any role for the Delhi government in the administration of the controversial AntiCorruption Branch that the AAP regime had created. The Union ministry's notification of May 21 baldly stated that the “subject of service lay with the Union government LG“. A week later, the state government filed a writ petition challenging this notification.The Shunglu panel characterised this suit as the Delhi government's “attempt to rationalise“ its orders.
 
