BENGALURU: It was a scene reminiscent of last year's mass agitation against the proposed steel flyover along Ballari Road. On Sunday, over 300 residents from Kumara Park, Madhavnagar and neighbouring areas thronged   to protest the government's move to construct a steel flyover along Hare Krishna Road. There was no shouting of slogans, but the message was loud and clear, and the writing was on the placards and banners-`Steel Flyover Beda'.

 The 330-metre flyover is supposed to come up at a cost of Rs 50 crore to reduce traffic congestion at Shivananda Circle and the roads leading to it. However, residents claim that the bridge would be useless if the railway under-bridge (RUB) isn't widened. The road narrows from a comfortable 124ft to just about 50ft at the RUB.
 
 “This is the same road that goes towards   mall. When the RUB isn't wide enough to accommodate so many vehicles, another bottleneck will be formed down the road. Instead of building the flyover, they should widen the existing infrastructure by acquiring land on the roadside. We have made many requests in this regard, but all in vain,“ rued  , a resident.
 
 The demonstration that began at 8am and lasted for two hours saw participation from members of Citzens for Bengaluru (CfB) which had spearheaded the last year's protest too. Srinivas Alavilli of CfB said they were not protesting against the flyover because it's steel, but because it's not the right solution to the problem.
 
 “It is proven that flyovers don't resolve traffic congestion. We are fed up with the government's harebrained schemes. When citizens see soil testing taking place, they will get anxious. Though we may not use this road regularly, we care as we are all citizens of Bengaluru. We request the state government to pay more attention to public transport,“ he said.
 
 Won't benefit the common man
 
 Adding that the flyover would make it impossible for   buses to ply along the crucial arterial road, Tara Krishnaswamy of CfB said the flyover would benefit only VIPs.“When the majority of the public travelling by buses is stuck in traffic under the flyover, who will benefit from this? The non-uniform carriageway also makes it unsuitable for flyover construction,“ she claimed.
 
 Savitha Suresh, owner of the famous   that has given the circle its name, said the construction will bring the road to her shop's doorstep. “There should be a public-private partnership and we all should be consulted.We are also legal taxpayers. Moreover, 30 trees will have to be cut for the project,“ she said.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 It wasn't that long ago that Bengaluru saw citizens hitting the streets against the plan to build a Rs 2,000-crore steel flyover between Basaveshwara Circle and Hebbal. The uprising eventually made the government bow down to public opinion and shelve the project. However, the government doesn't seem to have learnt a esson. Now, the move to build a steel bridge in another area without consulting stakeholders is being met with stiff opposition.Residents are concerned about trees getting uprooted and the subsequent rise in temperature.These fears expressed earlier have still not been allayed. The authorities, must try to win the confidence of stakeholders before going ahead with the project.Working out a consensus is more desirable than confrontation.
 
