PATNA: Senior ministers in Nitish Kumar government on Thursday condemned the statement made by Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who had compared Mumbai with Patna and pointed out that the two cities got last ranking in transparency and accountability in civic bodies, which is embarrassing.
 
  Deputy CM   hit out at Fadnavis, saying the Maharashtra CM has insulted the rich history and talented people of Bihar. “Bihar is the land of Mata Sita, 10th Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, Gautam Buddha and Lord Mahavir. People of Bihar have been insulted and Fadnavis should apologise for his derogatory remark,” said Tejashwi.
  
  The Bihar deputy CM added, “Fadnavis does not know even the A, B, C, D of history of Bihar. The entire world recognises the talent in people of Bihar. Fadnavis should read history before making such comments on Bihar and Patna. It seems sanghi motiyabind is not allowing him to see Bihar’s history.”
  
  Earlier, addressing a public rally at Mulund in Mumbai on Wednesday, Fadnavis had said, “They may be making tall claims but they are sharing position with Lalu Prasad’s Bihar. That is where they have taken Mumbai to...Look at the development index of Sena’s (Shiv Sena) administration in the BMC...It has brought it down at par with Patna. Mumbai and Patna were the only two cities that got last ranking in category of transparency and accountability in the civic bodies.”
  
  As per Centre’s economic survey report released recently, Thiruvananthapuram ranked at top with 7.5% in transparency and efficiency, Bengaluru 3.9% and Hyderabad 3%, while Mumbai and Patna were at the bottom with 2.1% each.
  
    president and education minister   too criticised Fadnavis, saying such statements were not expected from a CM. “We live in a democratic setup and we should honour each other’s dignity and self-respect. Moreover, it is repetitive trait of political leaders from Maharashtra to demean people from Bihar and UP, which is quite condemnable,” he said.
  
  Patna Mayor Afzal Imam said it has been a tendency of leaders from Maharashtra to make fun of people from UP and Bihar.
  
  Former Bihar CM  , on the other hand, said Fadnavis’s statement was true to some extent. “It is true that Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration is quite bad. I have personally seen it when I was the CM of Bihar. Thus, if people are using PMC as a yardstick to compare worst governance, the fault is also with the government here as it should take steps to improve the scenario,” said Manjhi.
  
