MUMBAI: Three wagons and the brake van of a goods train derailed at Ravli Junction near Wadala station on the Harbour line before Monday dawn as it was crossing from the   territory towards GTB Nagar station on Kurla-bound tracks.

 The derailment came a day after the regular weekly maintenance block between CST and Chunabhatti stations -covering the accident site -was taken on Sunday . The cause of the failure is suspected to be rail fracture, which can occur because of a maintenance problem, normal wear and tear, and extreme climatic conditions, said officials.
 
 “A high-level inquiry should be ordered. It should have members from the railway board. Accountability should be fixed in case the findings reveal negligence,“ said CR's divisional rail user's consultative committee member  .
 
 The services were suspended from 4.10 am to 8.17 pm between CST and Kurla. Since Harbour doesn't have a slow as well as a fast corridor, any block on its tracks mean the line is shut down. CR ran shuttle services between Kurla and Panvel, but they took inordinately long. “The trains were overcrowded and it was quite a task to get off at Kurla. It took me almost 1.15 hours to reach Kurla as against normal travel time of 30 minutes,“ said Belapur resident Sanjay Biswas.
 
 Asked why it took over 16 ho urs to restart services, an official explained: “The derailed wagons had to be emptied before they could be cleared. The brake-van was re-railed at 5.50 pm.Thereafter, the Over Head Equipment (OHE) wire had to restored before the route was declared fit to run regular services.“
 
 The tracks too had to be checked and restored. (See box) The long suspension of normal services triggered chaos due to overcrowding at Kurla as CR had allowed Harbour line passengers to use main line trains to CST and vice-versa. CR had to deploy senior officials at Kurla along with a heavy contingent of   (RPF) personnel to ensure the overcrowding did not lead to stampede during the peak hours. “It took me almost 10 minutes to reach from the East side of the foot overbridge to the West side because of the crowds,“ said Kurla resident Sachin Rane.
 
 Panvel commuter Ashwini Patade said, “There was so much overcrowding that one commuter had to get off at Chembur as she felt short of breath due to lack of oxygen.“ Of the 75 lakh commuters in the city , nearly 1215 lakh travel by Harbour line, and the numbers have grown by 10% per annum.
 
