KOLKATA: The house in which   lived would have ceased to exist more than half a century ago had Netaji’s nephew   heeded then chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy’s suggestion that a multi-storied building be constructed in its place to house the museum, archives and library on the patriot.

 “One day in the early 1960s, Bidhan Roy was visiting 38/2 Elgin Road where my father Sisir had set up the Netaji Research Bureau in 1957. Roy suddenly turned to him and said: ‘Esho he, ei purono barita bhenge phele ekta bahutal bari banai. (Come, let’s pull down this old house and build a highrise).’ Roy had just presided over the demolition of the beautiful   with its exquisite Corinthian columns for the construction of the matchbox like Centenary Building a few years later. Fortunately, Netaji Bhawan lives on,” Sugata Bose said at a discussion on Humanizing Heritage, Connecting Histories on Friday. The convention was held by Bengal chapters of Indian Institute of Architects and Confederation of Real Developers Association of India.
 
 “Thank God my father said no. Or else, it would have been disastrous. This address, along with 1 Woodburn Park (the other Bose family residence) are among the city’s most important anti-Colonial heritage,” said the grand nephew of Netaji. Criticizing the rampant destruction of houses and neighbourhoods in the name of modernism and change, the MP and Harvard professor said: “I am in favour of new buildings in our city. I am simply against pulling down old heritage structures and needlessly destroying the character of old neighbourhoods.” He also felt planners and architects needed to be sensitive to the city’s rich anti-Colonial heritage. 
 
 British architect and former Briston mayor George Ferguson, who is visiting Kolkata after 30 years, said: “One can fall into the trap that the only heritage worth preserving are grand buildings like the Victoria Memorial. We forget day-to-day heritage. Even the commonplace houses where people live and make up neighbourhoods are heritage for they define the city. The new can enhance the heritage like the glass pyramid entrance to the Louvre in Paris. Or it can damage that inheritance,” he cautioned. 
 
 
