LUDHIANA: Hopes of many rebel candidates and namesakes of established candidates were dashed after announcement of assembly   on Saturday. Except Shiromani Akali Dal rebel Madan Lal Bagga, no other rebel candidate did well. 

 Although Bagga lost, he got 12,136 votes from North constituency, while Congress rebel Hemraj Aggarwal faced a crushing defeat with only 3,011 votes in his kitty. Bagga stood fourth after Congress candidate Rakesh Pandey, BJP candidate Parveen Bansal and LIP candidate Randhir Singh Sivia. Supporters of Parveen Bansal hold Bagga responsible for Bansal’s defeat.
 
 However, the remaining independent candidates failed to touch score with even 1,000 votes. Another Congress rebel from Gill constituency, Kartinder Pal Singh, who contested as an independent, got only 886 votes. The NOTA button had been pressed 1,647 times in Gill constituency, which is almost double the number Kartinder’ votes. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Madan Lal Bagga said, “Results were contrary to my expectations. During campaigning, we did not feel once that people would not vote in my favour. I lost from North constituency because of the Congress wave and public wish for change.” Bagga said people were disillusioned with the Akali government and there was a perception that he would join Akali Dal again after elections, which is why people did not vote for him. 
 
 As far as namesakes are concerned, in Dakha constituency, Manpreet Singh Akali, namesake of the SAD candidate, contested as an independent candidate but secured only 564 votes. Rakesh Jain, namesake of Congress candidate from North constituency, Rakesh Pandey, got only 245 votes. Parveen Dang, namesake of BJP candidate from North, Parveen Bansal got 624 votes. 
 
 Kuldeep Singh, namesake of Congress winning candidate from Gill constituency, Kuldeep Singh Vaid (Bulara), got only 414 votes while Darshan Singh, namesake of SAD candidate from Gill constituency Darshan Singh Shivalik, also got 406 votes.
 
 Parveen Dang, who contested as an independent candidate from North constituency, said he got 624 votes but he is not disappointed. He said he would continue working as a social activist. Dang that he was contesting elections for the first time and the votes he got were based only on the campaign, unlike prominent candidates who “distributed liquor to the public”. 
 
 Box: 92 candidates to lose their deposits
 
 According to norms, candidates must secure 5% of the total vote share of the constituency to save their deposits. This time, out of 136 contesting candidates, 92 will have to lose their deposits as they got few votes. Most of the votes were divided between three main candidates of Congress, AAP/LIP and SAD/BJP.
 
 
