The sanitation ministry issued an advisory recently, enabling the transgender community to break any stigma around them and use toilet facilities of their choice. This move has definitely given a greater sense of dignity to the community. And now as a part of exercising their right in spiritual sphere, more than 100 members of transgender community entered the   dargah yesterday and paid homage to Hazrat Syed Jalaluddin, a Sufi saint revered by all the communities. After exerting their right to pray, some of the prominent members of the community shared their happiness.

 
 Speaking about the need to enter the dargah,  , a senior leader of the community in the city said, “Our elders used to pray here and offered chaadar to Baba every year. But almost 11 years ago, we were stopped from entering the premises. The Constitution has given us equal rights, so we all decided to come and pay our respects to Baba. I feel as if I have met my long-lost father after ages. This time we have entered the dargah under police protection; I’m sure, soon we will be allowed without the cops too.”
 
 
 
 Interestingly, this group pilgrimage saw transgender leaders from all over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh coming together. Suhana Shah, one of the leaders from Raipur shared, “After entering the Meetha Neem, I feel a special connect with the divine power. This entry has become a symbol of fighting for our rights. In Raipur, at Banjari Baba dargah, we are given so much of respect. Now we need this acceptance in all the fields of life.”
 
 
 
 Initially, the khadims at dargah objected to the members of community entering the premises dressed in sarees and salwar suits. Strongly objecting to any discrimination between male and female clothing,  , who had come from Yavatmal, said, “Trupti Desai and other women activists have already entered Shani temple and Haji Ali, so nobody can stop anyone from entering a place of worship just because he/she is dressed in a particular way. So, this entry for us is also about exercising women’s right to worship at the   sanctorum.”
 
 
 
 Accepting that these measures are all a part of the bigger picture, Uttam Baba said, “Our ultimate goal is to get total acceptance. Jobs, education, housing needs and inclusiveness in the real sense of the word is what we ultimately need. We are motivating our youngsters to go for higher studies, get training in computers and adopt entrepreneurial skills. It is early days yet, but I can already see it happening in near future.”
 
