PUNE: Behind the nondescript, dusty entrance to the   in Aundh lies a   which has placed Pune on the industrial map of the country. 

 The newly-launched   is now among the few centres in the country to provide modular training in automating machinery and factory floors, to skilled industrial workers, advanced-level students and others.
 
 Set up using incentive funds provided by the World Bank, the long-awaited facility was launched in December. 
 
 The department is helping industrial workers upgrade their skill-sets, while giving students — many of whom come from economically weak backgrounds — the perfect platform to enhance their employability. It has already attracted workers from a couple of major companies for short, two-week courses.
 
 Prakash Sayagaonkar, ITI’s principal, is happy that the facility is helping the industry. “Skilled manpower is a serious requirement in Pune — demand for trained workers is sometimes greater than even that for engineers. This facility is thus timely and much-needed,” he said.
 
 The students are only too happy to learn from the latest technology. 
 
 “I am here practically every day from 10am to 5pm. I appreciate the facility as it gives me a platform to practise what I have learnt,” says Pratiksha Kailas Birhade, who has completed a three-year diploma in robotics and mechatronics and is now upgrading her skill-set.
 
 Hajarat Patil, a final-year engineering student, too is excited to avail the services of the set-up. “I am currently doing a PLC course (at ITI). This will improve my chances of getting a good job. My father is a farmer in Solapur but I want to work in the industrial sector,” he said.
 
 While keeping pace with technology, the institute is also championing civic causes through its students. It recently distributed several thousand cloth bags among vegetable vendors and residential societies in the area, under the message of ‘Say No To Plastics’. 
 
 “The students got practical training of making bags, while we also helped a larger cause. The idea was to go beyond mere preaching and help the students learn that it’s possible,” says a satisfied Sanjay Ghodke, vice principal.
 
 MLA Vijay Kale was all praise for this initiative. “Merely talking about environment is not sufficient. We approached citizens of the area to help us with their unused clothes and the response we got was phenomenal. Now all vegetable sellers in the area urge their customers to use only these cloth bags,” he said.
 
