

 
  Excerpts:
 
 
 
 It is really a matter for the Indian government rather than the EBRD management.We have been in India's mind for long time since the beginning of EBRD. At the end of the day , the government has to make a decision and then it has to talk to the other shareholders. It's a shareholder's issue. We will have to wait and see whether India ever makes an application. It's never made a formal application.
 
 
 
 That's going very well. We have now got about $1 billion worth of joint investment with Indian companies. For example,   in Georgia where there's a hydroelectric project. We have also worked with Tata Beverages, with SREI and the steel company JSW and now Mahindra & Mahindra in   . 
 
 This is beginning to spread. In future, we will be trying to do more with Indian companies as companies get to know us better. They can see the advantage of getting to markets they might otherwise be wary of because they don't know enough about that market, Kazakhstan, for example, where we are working on some solar projects. We have interests from Indian companies in Egypt and Jordan. Power & energy has been a strong theme. The companies are beginning to look outside of India as well.
 
 
 
 I can talk about central and eastern Europe. I think the mood has changed and to the advantage of Indian companies.If you look at it from 1991 to the financial crisis, most of eastern Europe thought that the only locomotive, economically and politically , was western Europe. So Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland & Hungary, their economies were geared mostly to supplying to Germany and other parts of western Europe. 
 
 What happened with the financial crisis is not just that they had to retrench and take some austerity measures but also to rethink their sources of investment. When we go to countries like Hungary , Serbia, they have now tended to market themselves to Asia, including India and not just rely on western Europe.
 
 
 
 The pie is undoubtedly big enough. We are only scratching at the surface. There is undoubtedly more need for capital for development efforts.The big issue is how to get in finance to meet those objectives and I don't think you can do that through the public sector.
 
 
 
 It's too early to tell. It depends on type of Brexit. We are focussing very much on our countries of operation. Our analysis shows that if it is a hard Brexit, then the shock is quite bad. If it is a softer Brexit, somehow, either UK is in the single market or it has trading rules which mimic single market and if the UK is contributing in some way to the EU budget then there is virtually no impact.
 
