ALIGARH: “Babuji ka pota hai — vote to padega hi (He is Babuji’s grandson — he will definitely win votes),” said Sajjan Singh. An elder in Kamalapur village, he recalled how his late father had voted for Kalyan Singh, revered as Babuji in this stronghold, way back in 1967 when the BJP stalwart and current Rajasthan governor first contested from Atrauli.
 
  Fifty years on, Kalyan’s grandson Sandeep is going village to village in Atrauli seeking votes and invoking the legacy of his grandfather, the two-time UP CM and 10-time MLA from Atrauli for 35 long years.
  
  At 25, Sandeep is the youngest candidate fielded in UP by BJP.   caught up with him as he left on Tuesday for his campaign drill of walking 25 kilometres through 15 villages daily.
  
  In Aligarh, everyone knows the way to Babuji’s palatial bungalow on Marris Road where his son and the Etah MP Rajveer Singh lives. The Atrauli constituency starts about 25 km from Aligarh city.
  
  “It is a new experience...I thought of joining politics at some stage as my entire family is in politics. But I did not think it will be this early,” Sandeep said, mentioning how he was in England till last year completing his Master’s from Leeds University.
  
  A phone call to his grandfather is a must for him for “guidance and aashirvaad (blessings)” on most days, he said. “Babuji tells me I have to work hard and it is good that I have got an early start and have a long road ahead. I have his blessings,” he said.
  
  His USP in the campaign remains his grandfather, who has not come here given his constitutional position as governor. Sandeep’s parents have turned his election managers. His father Rajveer Singh and mother Premlata accompanied him when he filed his nomination last week and are on his side for public meetings.
  
  His father turned teary-eyed when he gave a speech lately. “I was amazed that he could speak so well... he has Babuji’s qualities,” his father said.
  
  Sandeep said he does feel the “pressure” of winning Atrauli, especially since his mother who was the MLA from Atrauli from 2007 to 2012 lost it in the 2012  . She had fought as a candidate of Jan Kranti Party (Rashtrawadi), founded by Kalyan after he parted ways with BJP.   won Atrauli for the first time in 2012 and its sitting MLA Viresh Yadav is again in the fray, hoping to ride the   youth wave.
  
  “The   I visit in the constituency tell me I have to work like my grandfather. He served them a lot as Atrauli MLA from 1967-1980 and 1985 to 2007 continuously.
  
  I am getting a lot of love,” Sandeep said. Dismissing criticism of BJP choosing kin of leaders for tickets, he said: “If a person is able to work and has capability, he should be given a chance.” He hopes if he wins the credit will go to him as much as to his grandfather’s towering image. 
