KOLKATA: The first day of Madhyamik exposed the lack of proper vigilance in the districts with reports pouring in of  . The exaninations in the city, however, went without a hitch. This was the first time that candidates took the   according to the  . 

 News of   came in from Malda and North Dinajpur almost as soon as the examination started. North Dinajpur DM Ayesha Rani herself discovered students at a few centres cheating. Half-an-hour after the test started, the rural venues at Kalichak, Ratua, Manikchak and English Bazaar in Malda went free for all with answers in micro-photocopy format being handed to examinees through windows. At Sattari High school and Raigram High School of English Bazaar, the “suppliers” were active right in front of the police.
 
 At Itahar Girls’ School, the candidates used the toilet located at a distance to receive copies of answers from outside and at Thikribari High School, outsiders were seen supplying answers to examinees.
 
 The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, however, refuted the charges of mass cheating. 
 
 “We had taken additional measures this time. Impersonators were caught at Kaliagunj and Tufanganj and handed over to police. Everything else was peaceful,” said Kalyanmoy Ganguly, administrator of the board. 
 
 There were some emotional twists as well. Sagar Haldar, a bright student from Habra Saptagram Adarsha Vidyapith, met with an accident on Tuesday evening while returning from tuition. Bystanders got him admitted at Habra Hospital with deep cuts in the abdomen. He was supposed to take his test from the hospital bed itself, and necessary arrangements were made by the BDO and the district education officers.
 
 However, minutes before the test started, his USG report came in, stating he had a clot in the liver and had to be operated upon immediately. Haldar had to be shifted to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and missed his examination.
 
 The Madhyamik examinee from Sabong who was attacked with acid by her stalker early on Sunday, had wanted to take the test from her bed at Midnapore Medical College Hospital. Accordingly, an invigilator was sent to the venue with question papers and answer scripts, and cops, too, were posted outside the burn ward. on Wednesday. However, they had to return as she said she was too unwell to write.
 
 In another incident, examinees Shibnath Das and Piu Das from East Midnapore’s Nandigram tried to elope on Tuesday. But they were traced to Sutahata by a team from Haldia women’s police station, who sent them to their respective examination centres. 
 
 Their parents were told to carry their admit cards to the venues. 
 
