NAGPUR: Armed with the sentiment of ‘better late than never’,   of   High School are now coming together to celebrate hundred years of their alma mater. Nearly, one thousand pass outs of the school since the batch of 1964 are joining hands to undertake various beneficial activities for welfare of the school and their senior teachers. “It’s time to give back to this institution which has helped in making us what we are today,” says Rudresh Chakraborty, an alumni of 1986 batch and member of a trust which has recently been formed to carry out these works.

 The school will be celebrating the event on Jan uary19, 2018 and a get together of more than thousand ex-students from across the country and abroad is expected to attend it. But, various activities for the students already began from July this year. “We are inviting famous students of the school to give motivational talks and are holding other activities like medical check-up camps undertaken by more than 35 doctors at GMCH who are alumni too,” says Chakraborty. Blood donation camps, essay writing competitions have already been conducted. “On September 16, a talk will be delivered by a psychologist on stress management for students appearing for board exams this year. Nilesh Bharney, Dy SP, who is a 1990 pass out will also speak on the occasion,” he adds.
 
 Recalling the era of eighties, when not many students from the school got a place in the merit list, president of the alumni trust,   of 1981 batch says that, now many students score more than 90% marks. “Tripti Ghosh, who was our class teacher then has been retained by the school management as an administrator and has worked hard to help the institution attain better standards,” says Vyas who works in central railways. Another effort is to convince the school administration to take CBSE or ISSC accreditation to keep the school abreast with competition.
 
 Getting all alumni together has not been an easy task says Chakraborty. “Those from 1983 to 1990 batch could be found on social media. We tapped on those from the ’75 batch for senior siblings and then relied on year wise batches to compile our list,” he says. The objectives of the association are to connect professionals of different sphere, carry out benevolent activities for the institution and to create a corpus from donations taken from alumni to help senior and retired teachers pay their insurances. “We are roping in famous alumni’s like PC Das of 1975 batch, who has created a new software language which is being used by many firms. Their presence will inculcate a sense of pride in the students,” feels Vyas who also takes pride in the fact that more than 70% of the students from the school are in government jobs.
 
