LUCKNOW: There is a fall of nearly 12% in number of candidates for the assembly elections this time compared to the 2012 polls, according to figures released by the ADR (Association for Democratic Reforms) on Saturday. The data also reveals that BSP has highest number of ‘crorepati’ candidates in the first phase, while BJP has maximum candidates who have declared criminal cases pending against them.

 Most of those booked for heinous crimes are from BSP, while   is number 4 in fielding candidates who have declared criminal or serious criminal cases filed against them.
 
 UP Election Watch co-ordinator Sanjay Singh said, “Thanks to pressure mounted by media and other sections of society, the first phase of 2017 UP assembly elections will see only 168 out of 836 candidates who have declared in their affidavits being named in criminal cases, which comes to around 20% of the total number. In 2012, 32% candidates declared there were criminal cases against them.”
 
 Singh added that 839 candidates are in the fray from 73 assembly constituencies in 15 districts of the state. Affidavits of three candidates Parmesh Vashishtha (Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Party candidate from Anoopshahr in Bulandshahr), Jile Singh (  from Meerut Cantonment) and Chahan Singh (Shiv Sena from Meerut South) were found illegible.
 
 As many as 143 candidates (17%) have notified they are serious criminals with cases pertaining to murder, attempt to murder, crimes against women and kidnapping pending against them. Singh said, “In their nominations, 15 candidates have declared cases related to murder, while 42 have declared cases of attempt to murder.” He added that five candidates have declared cases of crime against women and two are booked for kidnapping.
 
 One candidate out of three in the first phase of UP assembly election is a crorepati. “In figures, 302 out of 836 candidates (36%) are crorepatis. The average worth of assets possessed by a candidate contesting the first phase of UP election is Rs 2.81 crore,” said Singh, adding that independent candidate Parvez Ali with zero assets is contesting from Thana Bhawan.
 
 As many as 186 (22%) candidates did not declare PAN details, while three have declared total income of more than Rs 3 crore.
 
 The report says 432 candidates (52%) have not declared income tax details.
 
