THIRUVAVNTHAPURAM: The   on   death case and the melee which broke out in front of the police headquarters by issuing a detailed advertisement in newspapers on Saturday has boomeranged as the student’s parents took strong exceptions to the government’s assertions.

 While Jishnu’s mother Mahija Asokan expressed concern over the “government’s lack of faith” in her complaint, Asokan, Jishnu’s father, told reporters that he doubted whether the government was actually with them. 
 
 Mahija told reporters that the government should have at least heard her version of the events before issuing such an advertisement. Jishnu’s family were CPM activists and Jishnu was an ardent follower of chief minister   till his death. 
 
 The advertisement, which stated that the police did not manhandle Jishnu’s mother, said that they only gave a helping hand to the woman sitting on the road. No visual aired by the media attests to the claim that Mahija was dragged by the police on the road. Outsiders joined the group of Jishnu’s relatives and sparked violence in the police headquarters premises, claimed the advertisement issued by the   in all vernacular and English language dailies. 
 
 The day’s happenings also prompted Mahija to refuse to take IV fluid and intensify her fast. The 45-year old woman, who has been on a hunger strike, had taken juices and liquid food in the past three days. However, there were reports from certain quarters that she was faking the fast. Subsequently, Mahija’s has decided not to have any kind of food and by Saturday evening, she was shifted to the critical care unit. Medical college sources said her health was stable and she has started to respond positively to medicines. Mahija’s brother Sreejith, admitted to the medical college, has also intensified hunger strike by refusing to take water and IV fluid. 
 
 Opposition UDF came down heavily against the government over the ‘unwanted advertisement’. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala likened the advertisement to the one used to be given by chit companies which are on the verge of closure. 
 
 However, the real impact of the advertisement was seen on dissenting leaders of the LDF. CPM PB member M A Baby who had earlier criticised the police said the government has done whatever it can in the case. He said his earlier statement was an emotional one. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran also toned down his criticism against the government. 
 
