DHARAMSALA:  's frenzied hitting on Tuesday beautifully showcased this India team's rush to improve on shortcomings, a quality which has made  's bunch, since 2015, the most improved team in the Test arena.

 Asked if he was getting into IPL mode a few days early, Rahane was quick to assert, "No, not at all. I was thinking of the Galle Test, where we got into a shell. In a low-scoring game, it is important to strike early . I told KL (Rahul), I don't want to give them a chance. I am going to attack."
 
 Rahane has exhibited such counter-attacking tendencies in the past, notably against   at the MCG, and though it may not always come off, it is emblematic of India's new-found aggression when pushed into a corner.
 
 Tuesday's win capped off an unforgettable season for the team, in which they only lost the one Test while consolidating the core of the unit. Kohli's instincts were on point; he led with commendable passion and batted imperiously till going off the boil against Australia. Pujara, Ashwin and Jadeja showed they were the engine drivers of the unit in home conditions, while Rahul came of age as a Test batsman.
 
 Most importantly, though, India laid the foundations of a pace attack, led by   and Mohammad Shami, which offers promise of victories away from home. There is nothing to hold this team back now.
 
 "The fast bowlers throughout the season have bowled brilliantly . The main positive has been adapting to conditions," said coach  . "Even the new home venues, we didn't know how those pitches would behave."
 
 India's seven successive series victories since 2015 have seen them lose only twice, in the aforementioned Galle and Pune Tests, but there are only two away victories. One was a commendable win in Sri Lanka, but again in subcontinental conditions, while the other was against West Indies, one of the whipping boys of the Test arena. Some big overseas Tests loom from 2017-19, where spinners won't play as big a role as the pacers must.
 
 This is why Umesh Yadav's development as a bowler who can intelligently use his pace, swing and control to fox batsmen is probably India's biggest takeway from this home season. Apart from, of course, the well-talked about rise and rise of Ravindra Jadeja. "On pure pace, striking ability and making dents in the game, Umesh would be at par with Shami. We have worked hard on the fitness levels of the guys over the past two years. Umesh was always a fit guy, he probably used to bowl them quicker than he does now. But he has understood his game, become smarter. 80% of credit belongs to Umesh for the execution, for taking his game to the next level," said Kohli.
 
 "When teams prepare only for your spinners and fast bowlers come in and bowl those sort of spells, it can really shake the opposition. Not just Shami and Umesh, even Bhuvi given the opportunity has picked up five-fors. That has been the one factor responsible for us winning all these series instead of drawing a few."
 
 The biggest hurdle was a spunky Australia, and Kohli appeared relieved the team had seen the challenge through. Some big decisions, like playing Kuldeep Yadav in the decider, paid off spectacularly in Dharamsala. "I spoke to Jinx (Ajinkya Rahane) and he asked me what I felt (about playing 5 bowlers). He and Anilbhai decided Kuldeep was the X-factor."
 
 Kohli appeared to have already set his sights on overseas challenges. "This is not the end of anything. No need to get over-excited with what we have done. We are very happy with the No. 1 ranking but out main challenge begins now. If we can conquer the overseas season, then you will see a broader smile on my face."
 
