NEW DELHI:   Ravindra Gaikwad may soon find it impossible to fly in India. The Federation of Indian Airlines (FIA) – an umbrella organisation representing IndiGo, Jet Airways, SpiceJet and GoAir – is examining if the MP can be barred from flying in their planes. A decision to the effect may shortly be taken, said an FIA member.

 Ironically,   left FIA some years back as the organisation often opposed government policies which the state-owned carrier’s management could not do. AI is planning its own no-fly list on which Gaikwad is likely to find a place.
 
 SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh said: “SpiceJet supports a no-fly list to bar unruly flyers who are a safety hazard for not just the crew but even the traveling public. The government needs to act on this soon. An attack on our employees and crew is an attack on us and we strongly condemn such incidents.” 
 
 IndiGo also said it supported a no fly list for unruly passengers. The FIA is examining if it is possible to have a no-fly list of airlines or does the same have to be issued by the government to ensure people deemed as unsafe passengers do not fly any airline.
 
 Indian carriers have, so far, never barred any individual from flying and Gaikwad’s may be the first case of its kind here. “Airlines staffers – cutting across all carriers – are very upset with what Gaikwad did on an Air India plane. He may get violent again. We also fear that other passengers and/or airline/airport staff may return the favour to the MP. In the interest of safety, he may have to be barred from flying,” said an airline official.
 
 That airlines will take a tough stand was made clear by AI’s no-nonsense chairman   late on Thursday night itself. Lohani had said in a Facebook post: “One MP assaulted an Air Indian at Delhi just because the aircraft did not have executive class. The airline in response filed 2 FIRs in the local police station, one for assault and the second for forcibly occupying and detaining the aircraft for 40 min. Last year there was a similar incident at Tirupati and it too was taken up in all seriousness. We would not permit anyone to misbehave with Air Indians on duty and would go all the way to ensure that justice is done.”
 
 Aviation minister A G Raju had tweeted: “We are also working on creating institutional mechanisms to check undesirable flight behaviour or unruly passengers. Such regrettable incidents should never happen again.”
 
 Upset at being seated in the economy section of an aircraft with no business seats, Gaikwad had beaten up an Air India staffer “25 times” with his sandals and tried to throw him out of the aircraft on arrival in Delhi Thursday.
 
 
