COIMBATORE: S Nithya, a 21-year-old woman cricketer from Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology in Pollachi, has played only three matches in the last three years. The reason - theirs is the only   team in the district. But this will soon change. The   ( ) is planning to conduct tournaments for women cricketers like her.

 S Gowthaman, secretary of CDCA, said they had already begun work on it and had requested colleges and universities to send details about players. “We will soon curate information and create a database on women cricketers in the district. Apart from Mahalingam college, we have got to know that there are many women interested to play cricket in arts and science and other colleges. But, they do not have a team so there are no opportunities for them. We want to create that opportunity for them to create their own team and play open tournaments,” he told TOI.
 
 So why are there no women cricket teams in the city? P Aruna, a physical education teacher and coach for the cricket team of Mahalingam college blamed the lack of awareness as one of the major reasons. “We have had a team for more than seven years. But every year, it is very difficult for us to get these players on the field to practice. In schools and colleges in the district, sports like cricket are not given any importance at all. In some cases, though students are passionate, they are not given leave to play,”said Aruna.
 
 D Shalini, a former cricketer, said the number of women cricket teams in the district had come down from four to one in the last four years. “Since we do not play more matches, many of us lose touch and cannot practice. This promotion, awareness and tournaments should start from the school level,” she said.
 
 Deepa Rathinam, a a women cricketer from Salem said she would welcome the move by the association as it would help her pursue her dream of becoming a bowler. “We have all the infrastructure but no practice session or matches to play. Even though university selection is very easy, not many take part in it. If tournaments are held and colleges are urged to bring teams, the State team’s strength would grow,” she said.
 
 Media manager of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association RN Baba said when it comes to women’s cricket, Trichy, Tiruvalluvar Kanchipuram and Cuddalore are the only districts that have many women cricket teams. “Organising tournaments for the women cricketers is in the pipelines but several times, many of the players do not turn up and it becomes difficult for us to find replacements in the last minute. Also, during selctions, only 50 players turn up. Only if more players come forward can we organise more tournaments. We hope that the women’s cricket team reaching the finals of the World Cup will help promote the game among more young women,” he said.
 
