VARANASI: Ruling  's former MLA Abdul Samad Ansari will contest the Assembly election from   constituency on the symbol of  . 

 With the release of list of nine candidates of Congress for UP polls by Congress general secretary Madhusudan Mishtry on Saturday Ansari came in the fray. Claim of Ansari for SP ticket had been overlooked by the chief minister Akhilesh Yadav when the latter had declared   Singh as party candidate for City North seat before the formation of SP-Congress alliance.
 
 Ansari said, "It is the decision of top leadership of SP-Congress alliance. I am in SP since the beginning of my political career and I am a Samajwadi. But I accept this decision of the alliance led by my leader Akhilesh Yadav. I consider it as the decision of Akhilesh Yadav, who will be my leader forever."
 
 Congress had won the City North Assembly seat in 1985. In 1989, 1991 and 1993 polls the BJP emerged victorious from this seat. But, in 1996 late Abdul Kalam of SP won this seat and retained it again in 2002. Kalam died due to ailment in 2005 leading to by-election in which his widow Rabia Kalam emerged victorious on SP ticket. But, in 2007 election SP replaced Rabia by Ansari, who won the election. In 2012 Ansari retained the SP ticket while Rabia contested as Congress candidate but both of them lost and stood at third and fourth places, respectively.
 
 Rabia was strong contender for the Congress ticket by baging over 31,000 votes in 2012 polls. SP preferred Om Prakash Singh over Ansari. 
 
 Regarding surprising move of fielding Ansari the UP Congress Committees spokesman Satish Rai said, "The SP-Congress alliance looked for a candidate who can ensure victory and Ansari was found ideal in this regard. As the City North seat is in the quota of Congress the alliance decided to field him on Congress symbol." He said that the alliance wanted victory on all seats of Varanasi to give a message to PM Narendra Modi that people in his parliamentary constituency had become upset with his false promises.
 
