BHOPAL: National Green Tribunal ( ), central bench, on Wednesday asked the state government to file a reply in three weeks on biomedical waste (BMW) being disposed of through in-house facilities in various hospitals, which under the new rules of 2016 being prohibited.

 “The state government shall submit its response in three weeks on the status of new facilities under BMW Rules 2016 with regard to the disposal being undertaken and implemented,” the bench said.
 
 Earlier, the green bench had asked the state government in addition to the above that the Pollution Control Board (PCB) should take note of the provisions contained in the BMW Rules enlarging the scope of definition of BMW and assess the quantity of BMW generated in respect of all installed facilities for disposal of waste.
 
 The panel had directed to take into account the quantity of BMW being disposed of through in-house facilities in hospitals in the city.
 
 “The additional quantity needs to be added to the quantity of bio-medical waste, which was being generated and collected by the incineration facility providers and after taking into consideration the installed capacity in case there is excess quantity then requirement of providing viable option for disposal of the excess BMW shall be calculated,” the green bench earlier told the state government.
 
 The tribunal said the PCB along with the state medical and health department shall work out a mechanism for its proper disposal.
 
 In the recent past, notices were issued to   on a petition filed by two of its employees claiming they had developed gangrene after being injured during work.
 
 The NGT also issued notice to the director of medical and health education for ensuring the compliance of BMW rules in each of the medial colleges under it in the state.
 
 The state health department is drawing flak over improper compliance of BMW rules and lack of trained staff handling BMW in hospitals and healthcare facilities (HCFs), especially liquid waste.
 
 The NGT also directed that coloured dustbins as required under the rules are procured and supplied to all government HCFs. Besides, training of all staff handling BMW whether permanent or contractual, should be completed.
 
 The MPPCB was tasked to conduct surprise inspection regarding manner of segregation, collection and disposal at source from hospitals. The matter has now been posted for August 16.
 
