MUMBAI: The   that swept across the city in September has claimed 12 lives of which six were   aged between 2 and 16 years. With this, the city's   for the year has touched 14, making it the highest in the last five years.

 Deaths this year have nearly tripled when compared with 2016 when the casualty count was five. The last time a double-digit death figure was reported was in 2014 when 12 lives were lost to the viral infection. Around 705 confirmed cases of dengue have been reported this year, of which 412 were detected in September alone. As per the civic report, there were 3,721 admissions to various BMC hospitals last month.
 
 A civic official told TOI that a majority of the deaths and admissions were reported in the beginning of the last two weeks of September.Nine of the 12 deaths happened between September 15 and 30. “However, the deaths of so many pediatric patients has been intriguing. It was discussed with several experts though there doesn't seem to be a single cause responsible,“ said the official, adding the   have started declining.
 
 The youngest among the deceased was a two-year-old boy from Andheri who had fever for four days along with convulsions at his home. He died in one of the public hospitals.
 
 Another casualty among young children was a 10year-old boy from Dadar who was admitted to a private hospital with a healthy platelet count of 1.3lakh. However, as per the civic report, the boy was shifted to a public hospital in a critical condition when his platelets had dropped to 10,000. He passed away on September 19.
 
 Among the deceased were also four teenagers from Santacruz, Kurla, Dharavi and Agripada, of which two were also battling tuberculosis.The 14-year-old boy from Santacruz, who was treated in a private hospital, was undergoing treatment for multidrug resistant tuberculosis.The 16-year-old boy from Dharavi too had MDR-TB. Infectious disease consultant Dr Om Srivastava said all infections end up playing with immunity and the immune system ultimately decides how to respond to treatment, comorbidity and complica tions. “It is a little premature to assume whether dengueTB are going to follow defined responses and requires a more detailed evaluation,“ he added. The other victims of dengue were a 30-year-old man from Goregaon and a 57year-old woman from Kurar.The latter was also a known case of hypertension. During the four months of monsoon, dengue has contributed to nearly 8,000 hospital admissions in the public sector alone.
 
 Leptospirosis too claimed the life of a 32-year-old man from Chinchpokli. The patient seems to have taken symptomatic treatment.Two cases of cholera were also detected in September from C and F north ward.
 
