While speaking at a conclave in Delhi recently,   commented on the   and rallies which were happening on university campuses in the city. "Ye har saal hota hai, koi naya mudda saamne aata hai and we discover how much politics is involved in students' lives, aur kitni galat cheezein hoti hai uski wajah se. Politicising education is so harmful and I always think that there are so many issues, itna kaam hai iss desh mein karne ke liye, why do we waste our time in hate? Why have we forgotten how to debate healthily, positively? I may not agree with your opinion, you may not with mine, but why can’t we communicate with dignity and do it without harassing people and spreading hate? Our idea of debate has been distorted, everybody wants everyone to agree with what they are saying. They do not realise that everybody has the right to freedom of expression. We make everything a personal attack and that’s a problem," she said. 

  As one of the speakers at the conclave organised by the   (FLO), the actress also talked about issues that women face, saying, "I don't think that women in our country should allow anyone stopping them from voicing their opinion to become a deterrent, they should continue to speak up. They should become proactive about seeking security, but continue to voice their opinion. I think women are the nucleus of any society, them becoming aware will empower them. I am a big believer in equality, main nahi maanti ki auratein mardon se zyada achhi hai ya zyada khaas hai, main ye maanti hoon ki jo respect main logo ko deti hoon, woh hi respect mujhe mile."
 
  Dia is a proactive campaigner on environmental issues, and she touched upon the topic here too. "Air pollution or smog is not a problem that Delhi is facing, every urban center in the country is facing this problem, because industries flout environmental guidelines, people do not respect environmental guidelines, they always think that following them is inconvenient, when, in fact, those guidelines and rules exist to ensure our well-being. We all should recognise that air pollution is a severe threat to our progress and we should do everything we can do to change the situation we are living in. Other countries have enforced laws to ensure people maintain better public practice. The only way we can is through awareness and active communication and demand for change," she said.
 
 
