PATNA: The state education council on Monday reviewed the current status of the universities and constituent colleges in Bihar for National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation. The review committee emphasized the need for the   accreditation by each university and college to avail UGC grants under the RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan) in 2017-2018.

 According to sources, the review committee expressed satisfaction that most of the universities and colleges had come forward to apply for the NAAC accreditation this year. Out of 262 constituent colleges in Bihar, 45 have been awarded NAAC gradation. 
 
 The UGC had already issued directives to all Bihar universities to get their colleges accredited by NAAC, failing which the UGC would stop grants to them. The UGC Regulation of 2012 has made it mandatory for each university and college to get NAAC gradation for availing UGC grants under the RUSA for their development, sources said.
 
 According to K Senthil Kumar, additional secretary of higher education department, faculty (teachers) crunch has a telling effect on higher education in most of the Bihar universities. The state government is, however, serious to fill all vacant posts of teachers soon. Selection process for appointing teachers in the colleges has been completed in a few subjects, but the process is going on to appoint teachers in other subjects by the Bihar Public Service Commission, he said.
 
 According to state RUSA vice chairman Kameshwar Jha, the NAAC has revised its rules and regulations under which it has become mandatory for the accredited colleges to upload their annual quality assurance reports (AQAR) each year. The university and institutions, which are going for second cycle for accreditation, have been asked to upload the AQAR to the NAAC and the college website soon, he said. 
 
 According to sources, universities and colleges will be assessed for A++, A+, A, B ++, B+, B, C and D grades. The maximum point the NAAC peer team would award to any institution is four CGPA (cumulative grade points average). These points would be awarded on the basis of academic and infrastructure availability on the university and college campuses. Grade C and D are the lowest, which can lead to denial of any grants from the UGC.
 
 
