NEW DELHI: Whether it comes to reviving local water bodies or increasing the green cover, these   seem to know the value of “do it yourself” better than anyone else. And, so, with the aim of bringing to life the age-old system of self-governance called “tapa”, representatives of some 17 villages from in and around   and Dwarka congregated at Chhawla on Sunday. 

 The villagers had been working on reviving the old panchayat model for some months now, even setting up a special group called   to make people aware.
 
 Diwan Singh, one of those in attendance and at the forefront of the “mission”, said: “People have realised that political parties only pursue short-term populist goals at the expense of long-term objectives. The  , which was so effective in the good old days, aims to give more power to people in decision-making.”
 
 Prominent among the villages that found representation at the meet were Bhartal, Dhulsiras, Kakrola, Pochanpur, Chhawla, Ambrahi, Nawada, Khyala and Tatarpur. Residents of Dwarka sector 22 and 23 were also present. The villagers had earlier met in February to decide on the naming of an ‘Adhyaksh’, or elective head, to spearhead campaigns related to environment protection and other issues.
 
 “We found that despite orders from courts as well as the lieutenant governor, no steps were taken to revive the 33 water bodies in Dwarka. Five years on, rain water continues to be wasted when it could have easily been tapped and guided towards water bodies,” said Singh.
 
 He claimed that the residents had even petitioned for getting a biodiversity park built in Dwarka; instead, an urban park came up at the spot. The villagers held a special panchayat on Sunday to name an elective head of the tapa. The honour went to Mahesh Kumar, a resident of Kakrola. Kumar said the self-governance model would empower people by giving them the opportunity to have a say in all major decisions. “Governments are chosen by the people but people have very little say in the decision-making. Here, the voice of every single person will count. This will also help solve problems quicker,” he claimed.
 
