LUCKNOW: Involvement of teachers in abetment of   in the ongoing   is turning out to be a bigger challenge for authorities than students using unfair means. So far, the board has lodged FIR against 111 centre superintendents and 178 invigilators for facilitating cheating across the state. Though number of students using   has crossed the 1,400 mark, only 70 FIRs have been lodged. 

 UP Board has also cancelled examinations at 54 centres, while 57 centres have been debarred. According to UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) director A N Verma, 327 centre superintendents have been changed and FIR has been lodged against the management of four examination centres for facilitating mass copying. In a first, the UPMSP has, on the directions of deputy chief minister and secondary education minister Dinesh Sharma, decided to submit answer copies of seven examination centres (to be chosen randomly) for screening. Toll-free number 18001806760 has also been launched in the state capital for the ongoing board examinations. 
 
 Teachers have been found abetting use of unfair means in several ways. Some were caught supplying chits with answers or dictating answers to students, while some were booked for helping students smuggle answer sheets out of the examination centre, getting answers written by a facilitator and smuggling copy back to the exam hall. Many were caught for turning blind-eye to students exchanging answer copies and copying from books and guides in the exam hall.
 
 In Lucknow, on March 28, RBM Inter College, Gomtinagar centre superintendent Uday Bhan Yadav, who is also the school principal and another invigilator Rajendra Verma were caught facilitating cheating. FIR was lodged against the two. On March 27, English question paper was leaked on WhatsApp hours before the examination in Bareilly and Ballia. FIRs were lodged in both districts.
 
 The practice of using unfair means by teachers is rampant in private and self-finance institutions. UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh’s state secretary R P Mishra said, “Some secondary education department officials are hands in glove with the education mafia. Top officials are corrupt and involved in open and mass copying.’’ 
 
 A government school or an Inter college should be the first priority followed by aided schools when it comes to allotting exam centres, says the rulebook. The last preference should be given to self-finance institutions. “But things are completely reverse,” said Mishra. 
 
 Meanwhile, reviewing the situation, Sharma, who via video-conferencing, directed the education officials to tighten the noose around education mafia who facilitate mass copying ensuring “sure success” to students. All officials have been instructed to inform the board secretary and director immediately about the examination centres which have been debarred and also re-examination where the papers have been leaked. 
 
 The minister has also asked education officials to re-constitute Madhyamik Sanskrit Shiksha Parishad (secondary Sanskrit department) and include Yoga as a compulsory aubject in physical education course. 
 
