JAIPUR: Moving towards becoming a ‘Smart City’, the Jaipur police on Thursday became second force in the country to have a Smart command and control centre which is well-equipped with various gadgets to facilitate city police. The centre which is a move to intensify surveillance and keep a tab on various activities in the city was inaugurated by the chief minister,   at the Jaipur police commissionerate. 

 Raje speaking at the occasion said that the centre will enable police to have smart policing and making the state safe. 
 
 “This year, we are coming up with similar command and control centres at six other divisional headquarters. In the next phase, district headquarters would also be connected. I think this is a good move for better crowd and traffic management and will also help police in controlling the crime,” she added. 
 
 At this occasion she also suggested the policemen to be public-friendly so that the commoners not only trust them, but remain fearless. 
 
 Talking about the centre, a senior police officer, said, “This is connected with 464 CCTV camera which are installed at the city’s busiest roads. The centre has various softwares which would be used in various kind of tracking through LCD monitoring. It also has 16 receivers to take this much of calls at a time.”
 
 “The CCTV footages would be stored safely for at least a month. The centre also has face detection software and in case of any emergency or suspicious activity the men at this centre can intimate the nearby Chetak Van and police stations,” the officer added. 
 
 The command and control centre is managed with the support of  . “High definition videos would be captured, video surveillance would be intensified and it will also enable call recording, vehicle tracking, crowd management, crime detection and monitoring of crime scene. Likewise, videos, call records and other data available at the centre could be analysed for identification or tracing criminals, forensic investigation, traffic management, crime detection and control of criminal activities against women,” an officer added. 
 
 The CM also launched Intelligent Traffic Management System and 100-Men Barrack at Jaipur Police Lines from the Command Centre itself. She also laid foundation of another new 200-Men Barrack. 
 
 On this occasion, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria, social justice and empowerment minister Arun Chaturvedi, Jaipur mayor  , MLA Mohan Lal Gupta, DGP Manoj Bhatt, Jaipur police commissioner  , principal secretary (home) Deepak Upreti, principal secretary (IT) Shri Akhil Arora, ADGs of police, other officials of police and civil administration were also present.
 
