Actress and entrepreneur   tells us how she lets happiness find her on a daily basis.

 
 It’s a way of life. To me, it means spending time with family and sleeping at your will, whenever you feel like. Happiness is not being stressed out about anything, and to live in the moment.
 
 
 I will definitely like to spend less time on my phone.
  
 
 I think becoming an entrepreneur has been the biggest challenge for me so far. Keeping up to maintain a certain quality of work, concepts and ideas takes a lot of time, discipline and focus. Most importantly, it takes courage – the courage to be different. 
 
 
 My parents have always told me: whatever it is, it’s going to pass, and as long as you have a healthy mind and healthy body, there’s nothing that can hold you back. It’s just about being back on your feet and starting again. I don’t mull over drawbacks for more than an hour, or two maybe, on a bad day.
 
 
 I think time and experience teach you a lot, and my evolvement comes from this huge sense of detachment from things that are not necessary for me. I choose my battles.
 
 
 The best lessons in life are taught either by your family — I mean parents — or by life itself. You can’t sit around and wait for things to happen. Life gives you opportunities, make the most of them and along the way, you will see success, at times, even failure; but don’t worry about it. Happiness is the most important thing that you should work towards.
 
 
 When I learnt not to take stress over small stuff. When I used to, I was unhappy. 
 
 
 Oh, there’s a lot to say about that. I love working out and keep looking for different ways to stay fit. As for adventure, I look for it in the smallest and the largest things in life. 
 
 
 I think life has got you here and the purpose is that you need to learn how to live it. If you are not doing that, then you are extremely foolish. 
 
 
 I think every time you have setbacks, you should not get bogged down. Always tell yourself there’s more and if there’s any negative sound in your head, detach from it, because the mind can be a very misleading place. If it’s working overtime, it can be quite scary. 
 
 
 My spirituality comes from everything, taking the learnings of my parents forward, doing yoga every second day, focusing on my work and staying energised all the time. I think of spirituality in the smallest things, like being at home and spending time with myself or travelling to a new place to detaching myself from things that aren’t necessary. 
 
 
 Well, I detach myself from both. I don’t take either too seriously. I’m on social media so that I can follow people I love and adore, and also to see what’s happening around the world. It keeps you well informed. 
 There is a flip side – people can track you down and put you down for everything you say or do. So, you just have to be careful. We should know where to draw the line.
 
 
 - Don’t eat out of a bag 
 - Everything with preservatives is bad for you
 - Stay away from sugar
 - Focusing on meal timings is a great step towards being fit
 
 
