THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has launched a chief minister’s   fund that aims at providing financial backing to the six missions unveiled on the occasion of the   completing 100 days in office. The new fund, with  , will be in operation in addition to the existing chief minister’s  .

 The finance department order constituting the new fund on January 4 said that since present government funds are insufficient for improving the basic facilities of those who are being side-lined in the society for various reasons, the new fund is being constituted. This will aim at combining development and welfare activities of the government.
 
 As per the guidelines for the new fund, a maximum of Rs 3 lakh can be provided for the construction, maintenance or renovation of any public facility, Rs 2 lakh for the rehabilitation of neglected senior citizens and those residing in poramboke, Rs 1 lakh for those in financial trouble and a maximum of Rs 10,000 for any other financial aid.
 
 Any requests for aid beyond the prescribed limit will be cleared only with the concurrence of the cabinet. Though there is no fixed format for applying for financial aid under the new care fund, any individual, organisation or volunteer organisations can apply, with the full details of the applicant and the requirement. Also, anyone can bring to the notice of the government the cases of any deserving individual or organisation.
 
 The district collectors are required to submit a report within 10 days of receiving an application, after assessing the income of the applicant for the last six months. Also, in the case of construction of houses or purchase of land, the revenue authorities have been instructed to ensure that the beneficiary is not transferring the land or house for the next 12 years. The collector will also have to certify that the applicant has not received any aid from any other organisation for the same requirement, in the past. Once an application is approved, the government will transfer the funds to the Aadhaar-linked bank account of the applicant within 30 days.
 
 
