KOCHI: The   (NGT) has issued an order to   (NGIL) to ensure zero discharge of chemical waste from its factory at Kathikudam in Thrissur district into the  , in six months. NGIL has also been asked to remove all the sludge stored at Muthlamada in Palakkad as well as the waste stacked on the factory premises at Kathikudam near Chalakkudy within that time.

 The order is based on petition by   leaders that the company , which process bone, is flushing out chemical waste, including chloride and total dissolved solid (TDS), in to the Chalakkudy river.
 
 The NGT has set 24 conditions to be followed by the NGIL. The court also asked the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to file a status report within a month.
 
 “The NBT also asked the company to remove all the un derground pipelines which carry the effluent. The pipeline should be over the ground and visible. It was based on the petition that the underground pipelines help the company to discharge waste above the permissible limits that the tribunal gave the verdict,“ said Vincent Panikkulangara, one of the counsels who appeared in the NGT on behalf of the petitioners.
 
 “Now, the company's effluent pipeline pass 1.5 metre below ground level and outlet opens in the middle of the river. This leaves no scope for the public to check the volume of discharge,“ he said. The NGT, in the verdict, upheld the fact that the Chalakkudy River is a source of drinking water and so it should not be polluted.The tribunal also ordered that separate meters should be installed at the intake and outlet points of the effluent treatment plant to know the amount of water being used and discharged.
 
 Residents in the area have been agitating against the pollution caused by the company for decades. “Earlier the KSPCB and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had given clean chit to the NGIL.But an inspection conducted by National Pollution Control Board (NPCB) identified several lapses on the part of the company . It is the report submitted by the NPCB that paved way for current verdict by the NGT,“ said NGIT Action Council president  .
 
 “As per norms, the permissible limit of chloride content in the effluent is 250mglitre whereas the level of discharge is 4,000mglitre. The maximum permissible limit of TDS discharge is 500mglitre.But TDS content in the company's discharge is 7,000mg litre,“ Jaison said.
 
