MUMBAI: The   (CoA), administering the game under directions from the  , distributed among the   members an operating handbook prepared by leading audit firm   this week.

 Smouldering over the "remarkable ordinariness" of what the professional firm has submitted, members of the Board fumed at a range of issues mentioned.
 
 "Deloitte points out core policies for BCCI that will cover areas of operations such as organization structure, cricket operations, game development, human resources whereas they are competent - by way of market authority - to comment on fixed assets, treasury, compliance and procurement," say members.
 
 The BCCI members have serious objections to the new funds disbursement policy that has been distributed among the members and makes for the Special General Meeting (SGM) agenda on July 26.
 
 "The new proposed Funds Disbursement Policy appears to have been drafted by someone who has either no clue about or is attempting to ignore the basic foundations on which the edifice of the revenue structure of the BCCI stands," says a member. "We have had professionals engaged with the BCCI over the last 2-3 years who themselves seem to be unaware of the nature of funds of the BCCI and the State Cricket Associations."
 
 The policy with regard to disbursements, listed as 'Amounts Due to Association', has been developed on the basis of the following tenets: a) Clear emphasis on utilization of funds only for cricket activities; b) Defined mechanism for determination of entitlement nature, using objective criteria; c) Right to claim the amounts when the underlying obligations are met; d) Maintaining transparency in spending and accountability to the Board for the same.
 
 There is a separate appendix with regards to "amounts due to association".
 
 "We are all aware that the BCCI is an association comprising of various associations and each of those associations have certain rights. Some of those rights are of a pecuniary nature. Historically, when an international team would come to India, matches would be allocated to associations to host in different parts of the country. The associations would give guarantee money to BCCI for such a game to be organized and the associations would take all steps to earn revenue from the same," say state members.
 
 Members say in order to change the system that has existed for years, associations will have to give up their rights, which is bound to have other legal repercussions. 
 
