HYDERABAD: The   will become operational by the end of this year, said municipal administration minister  . 

 Replying to a discussion on demands for grants to the municipal administration department in the legislative assembly on Wednesday, KTR said that the Miyapur-LB Nagar Metro corridor (29 km) and the Nagole-Raidurg Metro corridor (29 km) will be opened to the public by December-end. The minister was, however, silent on the   (JBS)-Falaknuma corridor covering a distance of 15 km.
 
 The Metro rail project began in April 2012 and a major portion of the work on Miyapur-LB Nagar and Nagole-Raidurg corridors has been completed. Earlier, it was expected that the Metro would be operational by June 2, the day Telangana state was formed.
 
 Traffic woes in Hyderabad are likely to ease with the launch of the Metro. 
 
 Work on the 72km Metro rail project-it includes the JBS-Falaknuma corridor II-began in June 2012 and was to be completed in five years. Till February, about 78% of work had been completed. As per the concessionaire agreement signed between   and Larsen & Toubro in 2010, the entire project was to be completed by June 2017. While the project cost was Rs 12,132 crore when the agreement was signed, it was revised to Rs16,375 crore. 
 
 In a related development, the state government has also decided to go ahead with its   covering two JBS-Thumukunta and Patny-Suchitra corridors.
 
 "We have sought funds from the Centre. Even if the Centre does not give money, we will go ahead with the skyway project to end traffic congestion," said KTR, adding strategic road development programme will be implemented at Uppal and major junctions.
 
 KTR gave an assurance that Hyderabad would get a lion's share in the budget allocated to the municipal administration department. The budgetary support to   is Rs 1,000 crore in the 2017-18 budget. This is the highest budgetary support to the civic body since its inception in 2007. He said the government would also focus on sanitation, water supply, modernisation of slaughterhouses and regulated growth of the city.
 
