PUNE: Two Chinese academicians speaking at the `Pune Dialogue on National Security-2017' on Friday said India and China must take conscious efforts to improve bilateral ties.

 Wang  , an associate professor with the   and deputy executive director of the Institute for China and the US, and  , professor and vice-dean of Fudan University's Institute of International Affairs, were speaking to TOI on the sidelines of the event at Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration.
 
 Dong said, “The Doklam standoff was not the first case of tension between the two countries. We have had much more serious issues in the 1980s, but they were negotiated amenably .The striking difference this time was that the standoff was highlighted extensively by the media.“
 
 He said the Doklam issue showed a trust deficit between the two countries. “The top leaders of India and China need to initiate more efforts to improve bilateral relations,“ he added.
 
 On why China has not been able to resolve territorial dispute with India when it has resolved similar disputes with other neighbours, Dong said, “It requires political will. I believe sooner or later the dispute will get resolved. But, I don't know how long will it take. Both the countries together can do much more globally.“ He said the India-China-US triangle should stay stable for the good of the region. “India's proximity to the US should not be seen as against China,“ he said, adding, “China has taken an aggressive approach towards terrorism. We believe that this is one issue we should fight together.“
 
 Meanwhile, Dingli said China should not build any infrastructure on the disputed territories without consulting India.
 
 “While constructing ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor, China should consult India because the corridor is going through the disputed territory (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir). Why does China fail to ask? We should consult together and build it together. Why only consult Pakistan and not India?“ Dingli asked.
 
