NEW DELHI:   strongly supported the   government’s initiatives like demonetisation and GST even as the party said “teething problems” associated with big reforms will be addressed and assured that the government is working on a “war footing” to quicken growth.

 In a resolution adopted on Monday, the   thanked PM Narendra Modi and finance minister Arun   for accomplishing two “great achievements” of demonetisation and implementing GST. 
 
 The need to address concerns over slowing growth that have given opposition ammunition to attack the government saw the political resolution taking the economy as the first issue even as it hailed the measures to create a transparent economy.
 
 Jaitley assured the government is already “taking steps to improve the situation and is in the process of addressing the issue of a dip in the GDP,” which he said, has only happened “in the last quarter, after three years of showing sound growth like never before, going broadly by the macro-economic data”. He was replying to questions on how the government plans to deal with the present slowdown in the economy.
 
 Roads and highways minister  , who addressed the media on the political resolution accepted there are “teething problems” with GST but said, “When big reforms take place, initial problems do crop up. But the government is working on a war footing to resolve it.” He said the PM has asked every department to resolve GST-related issues and giving his own instance, Gadkari said shipping and finance departments had faced many problems which were resolved by going into every detail.
 
 Giving examples of future moves to boost the economy, Gadkari talked about the cement industry that was picking up because of road and other construction. He also said there are many new projects coming up in railways and power sectors, indicating more jobs being created and spending going up. He assured the government is working on “time-bound projects and transparent systems” that would help boost the economy.
 
 Rejecting opposition charges that economy had been adversely affected by demonetisation, Jaitley said the Congress-led UPA had not “taken a single step” against black money and corruption and added that tackling graft and eliminating black money were never a part of the UPA’s political and economic agenda. “It is obvious that any step against black money and corruption will never be supported by any UPA leader,” he said.
 
 The resolution said the government had “delivered” on its promise on corruption and black money, adding that demonetisation, a move which invited sharp criticism from opposition, “broke the backbone of black market as well as the black money hoarders”.
 
 “The overwhelming public support for demonetisation needs to be underscored,” it said, adding that it paved the way for strengthening the foundations of a transparent economy. The Centre’s policies had brought rewards for honesty in public life and the government deserved rich compliments for bringing in a transparent economic system, the resolution said, praising the rollout of GST which led to “one nation, one tax” system.
 
 BJP also adopted a six-point agenda, seeking to rid the country of poverty, terrorism, casteism, communalism and corruption, to realise PM Modi’s vision of a new India by 2022, said Gadkari.
 
