PUNE: The Nationalist   (NCP) started its election campaign with party leader   accusing the election machinery of favouring BJP candidates. He castigated the party's MLC Anil Bhosale whose wife Reshma is in contesting as a BJP candidate.

 The NCP had refused Reshma, a sitting NCP corporator, a ticket. She then went over to the BJP at the last moment. The BJP approved her nomination and gave her a ticket ignoring a party loyalist.
 
 “What Bhosale has done will shame the word dishonest itself. After a Bhoslae family member got the MLC ticket, the chance for a corporator's position was expected to be given to another person,“ Pawar said at a rally to launch the campaign.
 
 Pawar said his party has sent a notice to Bhosale and his reply is expected in a day or two. A decision on his membership will be taken later, he added.
 
 Reshma Bhosale will be the BJP's official candidate for panel 7. However, there were problems with her candidature as her nomination form ran into controversy during the scrutiny process. The election officials had objected as her nomination form said she is an NCP candidate, but the B form which she had submitted was of the BJP.
 
 The matter was routed via municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar to the state election commission which ruled in Bhosale's favour. After the order, she has been allowed to contest the election as a BJP candidate.
 
 Kumar and election officer   did not give the status of Bhosale's nomination. “The right to appeal is not with the commission.Even then election officials ruled in her favour allowing her to contest on a BJP ticket.The election commission is being misused. It is harmful for democracy ,“ Pawar said.
 
 He blamed the ruling BJP and   government for poor law and order in the state. He said demonetisation has badly affected people, especially the farmers.
 
 Congress to approach court
 
 The Congress on Monday blamed the election commission of “bias and misuse of their powers.“ The party has decided to approach the courts against the rulings of the commission. “A number of candidates of the Congress party have been disqualified.The commission is working for the BJP's benefit. We will go to the high court against the order. If needed we will go to the  ,“ Ramesh Bagwe, city unit chief of Congress, said.
 
