ROHTAK: Residents of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s native village   in Rohtak district have alleged a scam in the purchase of dustbins installed in the area. The villagers have alleged that the dustbins put up by the state government were purchased at an inflated price, which was three times higher than the market value.

 As many as 150 dustbins were installed in Baniyani at a cost of Rs 9 lakh in 2015. As the panchayat elections were to be held, they were being administrated by block development and panchayat officers (BDPOs).
 
 The matter came to light when Baniyani resident   filed a complaint at the chief minister’s window cell in June 2016. To make the matter more embarrassing for the government, the complainant alleged that he had to file the complaint more than once as the first one could not get the administration’s attention. 
 
 In his complaint, Rajesh has alleged that the dustbins that would have cost Rs 1,200-1,500 each were bought at the rate of Rs 5,100 per piece. The complainant also stated that the village sarpanch did not act on his complaint when it was brought to his notice.
 
 “Sarpanch Bansi Lal tried his best to thwart the issue as he maintains close proximity with top officials in the administration,” Rajesh stated, adding that a BDPO and a panchayat secretary were involved in the scam. However, Bansi Lal said he too had written to the administration for a probe in the irregularities.
 
 A senior official in district panchayat office said a probe had been prompted after issuance of an order from the government and it had brought forth a scam of at least Rs 5 lakh in the purchase of dustbins for Baniyani. 
 
 The official also said the probe panel had found similar scams in several other villages of Rohtak district. District development and panchayat officer (DDPO) admitted that several irregularities were detected during the probe and a report had been submitted to the Rohtak deputy commissioner for further action in the matter.
 
 
