NOIDA: Two minor girls were allegedly raped in separate attacks on them in   in the past two days. While a 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a neighbour in   on Thursday night, a 13-year-old mentally challenged girl was raped by a local barber in Jalpura village on Friday morning. 

 According to police, the minor in Jewar village was sexually assaulted by Yashpal. “The accused, who does odd jobs, stays in the neighbourhood and used to visit her house frequently. On Thursday around 9pm, he again visited her house and told her that he had some important things to share. Yashpal took her to a deserted location and raped her,” said a police officer. The girl returned home and informed family members about the crime.
 
 The family registered an FIR against the accused at Jewar police station. Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO, Jewar, said they had registered a case of kidnapping and rape under sections 363 and 376 of IPC. 
 
 The accused has also been booked under  . Though the police visited the accused’s house, they found him absconding. The girl has been sent for medical examination in district hospital and the medical report is awaited.
 
 In the other case, a 13-year-old mentally challenged girl was raped by a barber in Jalpura village under EcoTech police station area. According to her family members, the accused, Arif, had raped her on different occasions in the past as well, after finding her alone at home.
 
 The victim lived with her father, step-mother and step-sister in a rented accommodation. Her father works as an auto driver in Greater Noida. The family members said that the girl is in a state of shock. 
 
 A family member said that they were outside when Asif entered the house and raped her on Friday morning. The victim’s sister suddenly visited the house and found the accused committing the crime. She raised an alarm and alerted neighbours. The local people came to the spot but the accused fled. Avdhesh Awasthi, SHO, EcoTech police station, said that a case under Section 376 of IPC has been registered in this regard. 
 
 
