NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old youth was kidnapped, murdered and his body thrown in   river by his friends for offering one of their girlfriends a ride back home from office. The body is yet to be recovered.

 The victim’s brother, Deepak, lodged a complaint at   in   on April 2 after he did not return home the previous night. Probe revealed that he was last seen with his friends Ranjeet and Sourabh.
 
 “When cops went to the houses of the two youths, they could not be found. They were finally detained at a bus stop,” said DCP (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad.
 
 During interrogation, they admitted to having murdered Deepak. The three youths had met at a call centre in Kaushambi a year ago. Soon, Ranjeet and Sourabh quit the job. Ranjeet had been in an affair with a colleague, but after he left the job the woman became friendly with Deepak.
 
 Ranjeet told the police that on March 31 he called his girlfriend and offered to drop her home. However, she lied to him saying that her brother would be coming to pick her up. He decided to track her after she left office.
 
 The woman went with a female colleague to a nearby mall where she met Deepak. While they were about to leave, Ranjeet and Sourabh intercepted them on a motorbike. He asked the woman to go home while he sorted the matter with Deepak.
 
 The duo took him to a desolate spot under a flyover and started having liquor. Ranjeet then confronted Deepak about his girlfriend and attacked him with his helmet. Deepak was hit 20 times with the helmet after which he fell unconscious. 
 
 The men then carried Deepak between them on the bike and drove to a bridge on Hindon where Ranjeet pushed him into the river.
 
 The youths returned to Delhi and hid their motorbike. The next day, when Deepak’s family members went looking for him, Ranjeet tried to mislead them. 
 
 His lies were nailed when cops traced his locations on the day Deepak went missing. A case of  , abduction and criminal conspiracy has been registered against Ranjeet and Sourabh.
 
