CHARMINAR: A day after six male nominees were elected unopposed to the  , there are questions on why the lone female candidate in the fray was denied a seat on the board.

 Sources from the board and the government's   (MWD) said a subsection of the Wakf Amendment Act of 2013 says “Provided at least two of the members appointed under sub-clauses (i) to (viii) shall be women.“ However, there are different interpretations to this rule. “While the word “shall“ is being interpreted as mandatory , the word “provi ded“ is being interpreted to mean that if women members are available in the four categories to be nominated to the board,“ a source from the board requesting anonymity said.
 
 Female activist   had sought to be considered as a government nominee to the board, which is a catego ry in addition to the the four from which candidates were elected this time. In all, the Waqf Board has10 members, of which six have been elected; the remaining four are to be named by the government. The issue is whether Sarwath or any other potential woman candidate has the political support or acceptance to be inducted on the board, which has traditionally been male-dominated.
 
 MWD secretary   who is also board   , implied that the word “provided“ is the key to the discussion. “The section is like a directive principle.There are no Muslim women legislators or parliamentarians or members of bar council so that women members from these categories can be a part of the board. Ultimately , it is up to the government,“ he said, adding that a file has been “circulated“ to appoint governmentnominated members to the board. He declined to comment on the candidates who are being considered for these posts.“The government will decide who to nominate to the board,“ he said.
 
 Activist Lubna Sarwath who had approached the government with her profile for consideration said, “Act is in place and has to be implemented. Adopted and has been accepted in toto. It has to have women members. There should be no ambiguity .“
 
