NEW DELHI: India slammed Pakistan on Sunday for making a martyr out of   terrorist  , who was killed on July 8 last year. 

 Criticising the Pakistani government for glorifying the dead terrorist, MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay tweeted, "First, Foreign Office of Pakistan read from banned LeT's script. Now, Pakistan COAS (army chief) glorifies Burhan Wani. Pakistan's terror support and sponsorship need to be condemned by one and all."
 
 Baglay's comments came a day after Pakistani army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa praised Wani. Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif too paid tributes to Wani, saying his death "infused a new spirit in the struggle for freedom" in Kashmir Valley.
 
 Meanwhile, Pakistan summoned India's deputy high commissioner in   for the second consecutive day on Sunday over alleged ceasefire violations along the LoC, claiming that more civilians were killed in firing by Indian troops. J P Singh was summoned to "condemn and lodge protest over more civilian casualties at the LoC due to unprovoked ceasefire violations by India", Pakistan's Foreign Office said in a statement.
 
 A Pakistani spokesperson alleged three more civilians were killed in Chirikot and Satwal sectors on Saturday by Indian troops, taking the total civilian toll to five.
 
 Director-general (South Asia and Saarc) of Pakistan's Foreign Office Mohammad Faisal, who summoned Singh, "condemned further unprovoked ceasefire violations" by Indian forces. He said "the deliberate targeting of civilians is indeed deplorable and contrary to human dignity and international human rights and humanitarian laws". However, the Indian official told Pakistani authorities that ceasefire violations were started by Pakistani troops in Poonch and Krishnaghati sectors and Indian forces only responded. A strong protest was also lodged over the death of two Indian civilians in Saturday's ceasefire violations by Pakistan. 
 
  The glorification of Wani comes on the heels of a G20 resolution on terror in Ha- mburg, where India played a big role in the final language of the document, according to Indian sherpa Arvind Panagariya.
 
 
