KOLKATA: In a judgment that is bound to have far-reaching consequences on   meted out to officers and other ranks in India’s  , the   has ruled that an airman in the   ( ) can’t be denied   on the grounds that he is not an officer. 

 The bench of Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Anil Kumar Chawla, directed the Centre to frame non-discriminatory leave rules and reconsider the application of Corporal B K Verma.
 
 Verma had applied to the IAF, seeking study leave to enable him to pursue an M.Tech course in IIT Dhanbad. On July 5, 2016, his application was rejected on the grounds that there is no provision to grant study leave to airmen in the Defence Services Regulations (India) Leave Rules. The corporal challenged this order in the high court where the government and IAF submitted that study leave is only restricted to serving officers to enhance their usefulness in the branch.
 
 In their defence, counsel for the government and IAF pointed out that no leave can be claimed as a matter of right. While agreeing that leave can be refused by an employer, Justice Banerjee observed on February 20 that: “In this case, however, leave has been declined on the sole ground that study leave can only be granted to permanent commissioned officers and not to airmen.” 
 
 “Leave has not been declined on the ground of any administrative or operational exigencies. The concept of equality before law means that among equals, the law should be equal and should be equally administered and likes should be treated alike. Aricle 14 guarantees similarity of treatment. The guarantee of equal protection of law and equality before the law does not, of course, prohibit reasonable classification. Equality before law does not mean that things which are different shall be treated as though they are the same. However, the classification has to be reasonable.”
 
 “It is very difficult to appreciate the rationale behind differentiation between officers and airmen in the matter of granting study leave. It is, in our view, preposterous to assume that only officers would have aspirations of improving their knowledge and educational qualifications, and not the airmen. Equality before the law is fundamental to the concept of the rule of law. Equality and good conscience should be at the core of all the governmental functions. The executive cannot interfere with the rights and liabilities of any person, particularly his right to equal treatment,” she observed.
 
 The court also appreciated the fact that Verma’s academic records are outstanding and he was awarded a gold medal for his B.Tech course from a reputed engineering college. He appeared for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and secured admission to the M.Tech course in IIT, Dhanbad. Many of the senior officers, under who the corporal was posted, recommended that he be granted study leave to pursue the course. 
 
 “The respondents should appreciate intellect and erudition and encourage the talented and the meritorious by giving them adequate opportunity to improve their knowledge skills, their educational qualifications and not deny them equality by refusing them leave to pursue higher studies only on the ground of their rank and status,” the judge directed.
 
