NEW DELHI: One of the most consistent team in the history of the  ,   head in to the tenth edition of the tournament as the most rounded unit with the addition of a formidable pace battery to go with their deadly spinners. With   at the helm of affairs, KKR seemed poised to lift the   trophy for a record third time this year. Last year, KKR started well only to falter at the later stages of the tournament before being knocked out in the Eliminator by eventual winners, Sunrisers Hyderabad. KKR’s patchy form owed mainly due to the inexperienced middle-order crumbling under pressure, but by retaining the core team, the team management has put faith in the youngsters to come good.

 Kuldeep Yadav, Sunil Narine, Piyush Chawla and Umesh Yadav will have support of Trent Boult, Chris Woakes and Nathan Coulter-Nile, while in the batting department reinforcements have come in the form of two West Indians in big-hitting Rovman Powell and experienced Darren Bravo. If at all KKR will have problem, it will be regarding the team composition, more specifically trying to fit in four overseas players in their playing XI. Absence of   (out with a one-year suspension) will be a worry, but that will shift the focus on either Chris Lynn or Chris Woakes to fill the charismatic West Indian’s void. KKR have added New Zealand allrounder Colin de Grandhomme, who had a T20 career strike-rate of 171.04. 
 
 
 
 
 The move to make Gambhir captain of the franchise in 2011 has paid rich dividends for the team as KKR’s two title triumphs have come under the Delhi batsman and KKR have made it to the playoffs four times in five years under Gambhir. The opener has been in rich vein of form with the bat of late and when it comes to IPL, the shrewd captain in him takes control.
 
 
 
 
 The former KKR player turned coach has morphed in to the role of a mentor for the youngsters but they will miss the services of Wasim Akram who has opted out of participating in the IPL this year
 
 
 : Gautam Gambhir (c), Sunil Narine, Kuldeep Yadav, Manish Pandey, Suryakumar Yadav, Piyush Chawla, Robin Uthappa, Shakib Al Hasan, Chris Lynn, Umesh Yadav, Yusuf Pathan, Sheldon Jackson, Ankit Singh Rajput, Trent Boult, Chris Woakes, Rishi Dhawan, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Rovman Powell, R Sanjay Yadav, Ishank Jaggi, Darren Bravo, Sayan Ghosh.
 
 
  Gautam Gambhir (c), Robin Uthappa (wk), Manish Pandey, Ishank Jaggi, Suryakumar Yadav, Yusuf Pathan, Shakib Al Hasan, Chris Woakes, Sunil Narine, Trent Boult, Kuldeep Yadav
 
 With Umesh Yadav most likely to miss the first two games, KKR will be forced to sit our Bravo, who could lend stability to the middle-order and add Jharkhand’s Jaggi to make way for the fourth overseas player in Woakes. Once Umesh is fit, only one from Boult and Woakes will make it to the XI. Bravo will also have to stave off competition from big-hitting Lynn.
 
 
 : Gautam Gambhir and Robin Uthappa will continue to be the key players at the top-order for KKR. Uthappa has not had the best of domestic season, but come IPL, the Karnataka batsman, similar to Raina, finds his footing. Kuldeep Yadav’s meteoric rise in the last one year will make him Gambhir’s go-to man in the spin department despite the likes of Narine and Chawla at his disposal. The form of Woakes will be crucial for KKR as he is the perfect replacement for Russell. His batting and bowling prowess would mean Gambhir will have the option of adding one specialist bowler or batsman in the XI according to the match condition.
 
 
 : 2016 - playoffs; 2015 – fifth place; 2014 – winners; 2013 – seventh place.
 
 
 : If they figure out their best four overseas players in the XI and if the likes Boult, Umesh, Kuldeep and Shakib can carry forward their international forms, KKR will be a tough team to beat. A lot will also ride on the trio of Pandey, Jaggi and Suryakumar Yadav on whether they can step up to the plate and support the international players.
 
 
