KEONJHAR: Tomato farmers from several villages in the Mahdeijoda panchayat in Sadar block, staged a protest in front of the collector's office on Monday. Farmers hurled the tomato harvest to the ground, demanding access to cold storage facilities and compensation for losses. 

 Later, they submitted a memorandum to the additional district magistrate,  . "We have received their demand letter and have asked the horticulture department for an inquiry. We will take necessary steps after we get the report," said Swain.
 
 Farmers alleged that they have been unable to sell their produce and have not been able to store them either, without cold storage facilities. Most of them had taken loans from different banks and SHG groups and have not been able to repay them, as a result. "While earlier, traders from Sambalpur, Rourkela and Khurdha procured tomatoes to avoid distress sales by farmers, after the intervention of district administration, this year no agencies have done that," said farmer, Debabrata Mohanta.
 
 While the rate of tomatoes per 30 kilograms is about Rs 30, the plucking wage is about Rs 10 per 30 kilos. "Hence, we could not engage labour to pluck the tomatoes as there is no market to sale. Tomato on acres of land is gradually rotting," Debabrata said.
 
 Processing units like Bilati Orissa Limited used to procure the major bulk of tomatoes earlier for production of sauce. Problems started after the closure of the firm.
 
 Worst affected are farmers from villages like Mahadeijoda, Tikarpada, Salarapenth, Naupada and Dalimapur, which cater to the district's vegetable market.
 
 "If the tomatoes could be stored now then they could be saved and after about one month, we could get their value. But there is no cold storage here to store vegetables and other products," said farmer Sarat Mohanta of Mahadeijoda. 
 
 "We are making an investigation on the quantities of production and the causes of distress sale. Due to favourable climate all over the state, no one has been coming to these villages to buy tomatoes," said the Keonjhar deputy director of horticulture,  . "Farmers can process the tomatoes by setting up a small scale processing unit with an investment of Rs 2 lakh. We can provide technical support if they need. They can preserve the extract of tomatoes for weeks this way," Mohapatra added.
 
