TRICHY: The   against the proposed   is expected to resume shortly as the   passed a resolution on Saturday for the same as well as the demand for cancellation of the memorandum of understanding signed by the Union government with a private firm for exploration.

 The committee resolved to stand firm on its position to protest until the MoU was cancelled at the consultation meeting attended by the villagers at Neduvasal, the focal point of the month-long protest against hydrocarbon exploration.
 
 Saturday’s resolution was prompted by the permission granted by the Union government a few days ago contrary to the assurances gievn to them not to take up the   in Neduvasal, Nallandarkollai, Vadakadu and Kottaikadu in Pudukkottai district.
 
 A plan to hold protest in 70 villages in the area to condemn the Union government was part of the resolution. They also planned to conduct black flag protest in farm fields and houses.
 
 The protest against the hydrocarbon exploration had commenced on February 22 following approval from the cabinet committee on economic affairs for awarding contracts for exploration at 44 small oil fields in the area. The intensity of the protest increased as students joined them, prompting the Union government to put on hold the project.
 
  Accepting assurances from the Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan and state minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar, the villagers had temporarily withdrawn their protest on March 9 while stating that they would resume it if the project was not fully cancelled.
 
 On March 31, the protesters had sent a set of demands including the cancellation of the hydrocarbon project to the Union government. On Saturday, they decided to send the demands to all the government departments.
 
 After passing the resolutions, the organisers said that they would again meet on April 15 to decide further on taking the protest forward. Since Saturday’s meeting had been scheduled, police personnel were deployed at the venue since morning. As many as 200 people from various villages attended the meeting.
 
