Actress   Lakshmi, who became a household name through her character Paathu in the TV series  , has been having golden run of late.

 While her role in the film Minnaminingu clinched her this year’s National Award for Best Actress, she has been winning acclaim from the beginning of 2017 with her performance as   in the play, Bombay Tailors. The drama, which was organised by Atheethi School of Performance in the city recently, has been garnering a lot of attention.
 
 On how she landed the role, Surabhi says, “I was not active in theatre for the past three years. I wanted to do something beyond Paathu and that’s how I got the chance to do the play.”
 
  The pick also made her role Muthu Mozhi special. “It fetched me my ‘kanni’ award of the year as I was adjudged the Best Actress during the amateur theatre contest of Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi. Ever since Paathu became a household name, I have been anxious if I would be limited to just one character. However, my role in the play re-established me as a theatre person,” she says.
 The drama also has Binoy Nambala of Kismath and Indian Rupee fame, playing the male protagonist Peerubhai, a character inspired from a Telugu play titled New Mumbai Tailors.
 
 The play’s scribe and director Vinod Kumar says, “Bombay Tailors delves deep into the life of Peerubhai, covering the period from 1960 to 2016. The love story between him and his wife Muthu Mozhi is its core. While tailor shops and barber shops were places where vibrant conversations happened, a lot has changed over the years for him, and now such people are tagged archaic.”
  When Peerubhai seeks a job as a tailor in an international company, he is asked for his resume by an associate. That’s where Muthu Mozhi comes in and provides information about Peerubhai’s achievements and sets off the narrative. “She recounts how she fell in love and lived her entire life with him,” explains Vinod.
 
  Like the audience, the director too is impressed by Surabhi’s performance in the play. “Minutes before delivering a particular scene as an oracle, she asked me if she could get into the crowd. I told her to do it if she was confident that she could pull it off. She ran among the audience for the scene – much to the surprise of everyone.”
 
  Surabhi plays two phases of her character – as an 18 and a 50-year-old in the play. “Her transformation from a cupid struck youngster to a bold woman is amazing, and you feel that the character is tailor-made for her,” says Vinod.
  The actress also tells us after winning the National Award, the reception of the audience has been “overwhelming”. “While the recent play started at 6.30 pm, the audience started coming in as early as 5pm. It was surprising for me to see them waiting. While the sea change in perceptions and expectations from their side, I still have the same zest for theatre,” she says.
 
 Surabhi also pushes for more audience to watch theatre. “People should share the same enthusiasm for theaters as they have for films,” she says.
 
