THANE: In a run-up to  , the highest number of voters are found in the wards dominated by the   in the Wagle estate area or the hilly terrain pockets located adjacent to the SGNP or Yeoor forests, states the statistics compilation of the final voters list.

 The fate of 131 corporators spread across 33 wards in the   (TMC) shall be decided by the 12.28 lakh voters depending on the voting percentage during the polls.
 
 Among the total of 12.28 lakh (12,28,584) voters nearly 54.32 percent are the males i.e 6.67 lakh whereas the total female voters are 45.66 percent and 15 voters are from the third gender.
 
 The major chunk of voters, going by the final voters list is found majority in the slums pockets of Wagle estate area. Ironically, such pockets have mushroomed in the last several years as unauthorized chawls and buildings which have no Occupational Certificate and known as the ‘vote-banks’ for the political parties are seen in numerous city areas.
 
 During the elections, these pockets prove to be the deciding for adding numbers to the ruling political party as against the voters from the gated complexes.
 
 “The candidates irrespective of the political parties rely on the voters from the slum pockets as they are easy to lure with ‘minimal’ efforts. Also the voting percentage is higher from the slums pockets possibly due to political patronage than that of residential complexes which is why the slums pockets acts as a decider for the candidates even if the difference is in few hundreds,” said a former bureaucrat from the city.
 
 According to the final voters list it is found that the Indira Nagar, Sathe Nagar, Ambe Wadi, Jai Bhavani Nagar has highest number of voters of 50763. Whereas the second on the list is the Kopri colony, Chendani east, Parsik colony which also has selective slums pockets and the voter population consists or to 46699 which could be the deciding factor for paving the way to winner.
 
 The third on the list is the blend of slums and residential complexes of Balkum, Majiwada and highland with nearly 24782 of males and 21719 of female voters, the list reads.
 
 Surprisingly, the plush residential complexes spread across the city falls in the mid category of the voters in the city area especially on the Ghodbunder road.
 
 The ward which is the tail of the south of the city consists of the developing --Ovala Kasarwadavli and Bhayenderpada have only 29359 voters.
 
 The least voters are in found in the rural belt of the TMC limits way towards the Khardi, Dawale, Padle, desai, Khdikali, Daighar villages etc which has a miniscule 20410 voters.
 
 
