BHOPAL: When  , 25, was brutally done to death on January 17, a jeep first hit his bike and later the youth was stabbed to death in Pawai tehsil of Panna, it was 18th murder related to election enmity in 17 year in the same village. Yadav's 2-year-old son, also died after the kid fell down from the bike. 

 Fearing backlash and violence after the ghastly incident, additional police force was deployed in the village. SP   said, "We deployed force as a precautionary measure. Election enmity is a serious issue in the region."
 
 Murder of Raghvendra and his son were not isolated case in this dusty town in backward Bundelkhand region of the state. 
 
 Election rivalry and animosity sparking violence after panchayat elections have been a recurrent theme in Pawai since 2001. Yadav lost election to the wife of Raj Kiran Patel, who was involved in a litigation over panchayat election that took place in 2014. The issue had not died down despite his defeat. Yadav was murdered after he appeared in a hearing related to same panchayat poll-related case.
 
 Police fear the other community may retaliate as and when it gets an opportunity.
 
 In 2001, in a similar incident, four persons, including then then sarpanch Ishwerdin Uppadhaya of Rehota region of Pawai was travelling in a tractor with his three supporters- Prahalad, Rajputiye Ramesh and  , a community in the region whose surname sounds like Rajput, but are not Thakurs.
 
 Raghvendra, then only 17-year-old and four others attacked Uppadhaya with swords, knives and country-made guns. All four died on the spot. "The attack was made to take revenge of election defeat," said a cop, who investigated the case.
 
 The incident triggered a spate of murders in the area, all poll-related cases. Supporters of Rajputiye and Uppadhaya also murdered supporters of Surendra and Raghvendra, who later became a dacoit carrying a reward of R s 1 lakh on his head. 
 
 Facing charges of murder and dacoity, Raghvendra was caught in a Chhattisgarh village. He was on parole these days, said  , a sub-inspector posted in Pawai. SP Panna said, "Four people were arrested, including the main accused after January 17 incident. We have confiscated the vehicle, which was used for hitting the bike of Raghvendra." 
 
