PUNE: The Anti-Corruption Bureau of  , Pune has claimed to have recovered Rs 70 lakh   assets from a serving army colonel during searches carried out at five places, including New Delhi, Panchkula in Haryana and Goa.

 The   (CBI) had on April 7 filed a first information report (FIR) against the officer and his wife for allegedly possessing illegal assets to the tune of Rs 1 crore disproportionate to their known sources of income.
 
 CBI officials said the officer had allegedly misused his official capacity to earn these assets, especially between 2008 and 2017 when he was posted in Pune, Jammu and Sriganganagar in Rajasthan.
 
 Searches were carried out at the officer’s current residence at Sriganganagar, two houses at Panchkula in Haryana, his ancestor house in New Delhi and flat in north Goa.
 
 During the recent searches, the agency found five cars, including a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), gold and silver jewellery worth around Rs 25 lakh and around Rs 13 lakh worth of fixed deposit receipts in various banks. The agency has also found some documents related to the case.
 
 Acting on specific information about an army officer depositing huge amounts in his bank accounts regularly, the probe agency gathered bank details of the person and his wife.
 
 Superintendent of police (CBI) M R Kadole told TOI, “It is a crystal clear case wherein the officer has misused his official capacity and earned these assets while serving at different places during those nine years. We have tallied the assets with his declared sources of income and found that the couple has earned illegal assets.”
 
 He added, “We will interrogate the officer as to how he had earned the money. At this juncture, I cannot comment further.”
 
 CBI sources said they may accesses the officer’s service records where he was posted, including as a catering officer at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in 2009.
 
 The CBI has already gathered information about the couple’s expenditures and savings from 208 to 2017. Besides, they have found multiple accounts opened in various banks, including a private bank in Kothrud.
 
