LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister 
  on Sunday, dislodging his father   as 
  and installing himself as the boss at an “emergency convention” of the party. 

 While this caps three months of acrimonious manoeuvres and counter-manoeuvres that the two sides claimed would not lead to a split, Sunday’s developments have torn the party asunder, 
  , SP (Mulayam) and SP (Akhilesh) likely to contest the assembly polls. 
 
 Akhilesh took the precaution of not appearing to be ungrateful to his father by making Mulayam the ‘margdarshak’ or mentor, but this would hardly mask the fact that party founded by the 77-year-old former UP CM has gone out of his control. The special convention, called by Mulayam’s cousin Ram Gopal, also moved two other proposals: sack 
  from primary membership of the party and remove Shivpal, Mulayam’s younger brother, as state president. 
 
 The   is likely to freeze the ‘bicycle’ symbol as it doesn’t have enough time to verify the claim of either of the two factions as to which one is real. The freezing of the symbol would further erode any leverage Mulayam has left with the MLAs, and level the playing field between him and his son. 
 
 Sources said Mulayam would reach New Delhi on Monday along with his brother Shivpal for a meeting with the Election Commission. ‘Sacked’ party MP   too is back from London and sources suggested there could possibly be a meeting between the three in the national capital. 
 
 MSY showed he wasn’t ready to give up by sacking cousin Ram Gopal, who had called the meeting — for the third time in less than two months. He also declared the meeting “unconstitutional”. Mulayam then called his own national meet on January 5, possibly the last ‘dangal’ (bout) of his political career. 
 
 Sunday’s convention, presided over by SP vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda, a known Mulayam loyalist, was attended by many of his confidants: Naresh Agarwal, Reoti Raman Singh, Ahmed Hasan and Awdhesh Prasad. They were all subsequently ‘expelled’ by Shivpal, who flashed a letter purportedly signed by Mulayam, for anti-party activities. Agarwal, however, said, “Mulayam Singh Yadav ji does not have the authority to sack me. He is no longer party president.” 
 
 Later, in a dramatic turn of events, ‘Akhileshwadi’ (CM supporters) laid siege to the SP headquarters, bodily ousting Shivpal’s supporters from the office. Sources said a revamp of the national executive will also begin in two days. Akhilesh is tipped to nominate cousin and Lok Sabha MP Dharmendra Yadav to the national executive. 
 
 According to Article 14(2) of the SP constitution, a special convention can be convened on the back of a demand for it by 40% or more members. A senior party functionary said, “The SP constitution was written by Ram Gopal Yadav and there is no one who knows it better.”
 
 
 
 
