You may be paying toll on the   till a ripe, old age, or till the year 2059 to be precise, if the   (MSRDC) has its way. The  , which was thrown open in 2009, was supposed to be for a period of 30 years, till 2039, but now MSRDC wants to extend this period by another 20 years, till 2059.

 MSRDC spent Rs 1,634 crore on building the 5.6-km  . The corporation now wants to extend the toll collection period to raise funds for other projects such as the   (BVSL).
 
 The BVSL is expected to cost around Rs 7,500 crore.
 
 MSRDC joint managing director K V Kurundkar said, “We have sought permission from the state government to extend concession period (toll collection period) as MSRDC will need a steady stream of revenue to raise loans from financial institutions for other projects such as BVSL and we are awaiting the state government’s response.”
 
 Around 35,000 vehicles ply on BWSL every day. Currently, the oneway toll for a car is Rs 60, while a return trip costs Rs 90.
 
 From 2009, when it was thrown open, till now, MSRDC has managed to collect around Rs 575 crore as toll. The MSRDC has now floated a tender for toll collection and maintenance for the next three years. The chosen company will have to shell out Rs 380 crore upfront to bag the contract. A back-of-the-envelope calculation reveals that even if MSRDC gets Rs 380 crore for every three-year contract, then by 2039, it would have earned approximately Rs 2,800 crore. This is a very conservative estimate as the toll and the contract amount are expected to go up every few years.
 
 Explaining the mathematics behind the toll collection vis-à-vis the cost of the project, a senior official from MSRDC said, “The amount of Rs1,634 crore which we have spent is the upfront amount. Over this, we have to pay interest to banks as we have raised loans from them. So, the real cost of the project is Rs1,634 crore plus interest. So, our profit can be calculated only after we recoup the original cost plus interest.”
 
 Another MSRDC official justified the long toll-collection period saying, “When we approach financial institutions for loans for projects such as BVSL, they seek guarantee from the state government. However, the state has stopped giving guarantee to loans raised by its undertakings as it puts a burden on its finances. In such a scenario, the only recourse available to us is to extend the period of toll collection on assets we have, so that banks are assured about our loan repayment ability.”
 
 Responding to Mirror’s text message, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “No decision on MSRDC’s proposal has been taken yet. We are discussing the issue internally.”
 
 Both BWSL and BVSL projects are part of the coastal road which the state government wants to build between Nariman Point and Kandivali.
 
 The MSRDC hopes to complete the bidding process for BVSL in the next two to three months and start work on the project after the monsoon.
 
 Currently, one-way toll for a car is Rs 60, while a return trip costs Rs 90
 
