KOLKATA: A nondescript tea stall on   at  , near the airport, has become the cynosure of attention, and its recently deceased owner and his widow the toast of the town, for being a beacon of selflessness by giving, in death, the gift of life. 

 Krishna Dutta pledged the body of her late husband,  , and ensured that his corneas got lifted in time for re-use. Krishna, a cancer patient, has also pledged her own body. 
 
 Haripada and Krishna led a hand-to-mouth existence at the tea stall, which doubled up as their home at night. He was a refugee who came from   in Bangladesh with his father when he was just two. Haripada was a construction labourer, and set up the shack when he could no longer do that. 
 
 Since the two would open their stall in the early hours of the morning and keep it running till late at night, it became a favourite with the elderly, who would chat with the couple over tea and discuss the day's news. 
 
 It was during one such discussion that the couple got to know about the state-wide campaign for body donation.
 
 Of late, Haripada had been reminding his wife about the pledge, and made her promise never to take him to the crematorium after his death. “It wasn't as if he was detected with any ailment. We didn't have any money for check-ups, so we didn't get to know it even if he had developed complications. So, that day when he was feeling uneasy since morning, I didn't pay much attention and attributed it to acidity. There were customers to take care of, after all. But he suddenly blacked out and passed away ,“ Krishna recounted. The customers called in a local doctor, who declared Haripada dead. But Krishna lost no time in telling the locals Ganadarpan should be contacted and the body be sent for donation.
 
 “You had to see to believe Krishna's grit. She was broken with grief but stood firm in her resolve,“ said Dum Dum north MLA Tanmoy Bhattacharya, who the local police also contacted to facilitate the donation. “Ganadarpan got in touch with the state hospitals within its network and NRS Hospital arranged to receive the body .“
 
 “There are hundreds who pledge their bodies, but when it comes to donation after death, their families often dither. Not so in the case of Krishna Dutta, who treated it as her husband's last wish and followed through till the end,“ said Brojo Roy , a Ganadarpan spokesperson. She even got   to collect the cornea by an hour.
 
