NAGPUR: As   lashed the city on Wednesday morning, schools across the city received calls from harried parents on whether or not a holiday had been declared.

 With no communication from the  , many principals consulted each other to take a call. But with the heavier part of the rains coming around 8.30 am, it was too late for schools to declare a day off. As a result, a majority of schools in the city remained open with some deciding to shut down their afternoon shift.
 
 So, should schools declare a holiday if it’s raining heavily with the meteorological department predicting more of it? No, according to the local education department.
 
 While the answer might sound harsh and illogical, in reality it’s a derivative of the bureaucratic protocols that have been put in place to ensure uniformity in decisions. A senior official from the deputy director of education’s (Nagpur) office said when it comes to weather (rains, cyclone etc), schools can be closed only after the district collector orders so.
 
 “If the situation is grave, then the collector will issue orders for closure of institutions which we are bound to follow,” the official said. 
 
 For Mumbai schools, education minister Vinod Tawde declared a holiday which made many in the city wonder if the local education department would take the cue. But with protocol dictating the latter to wait, nothing happened. Speaking to TOI early in the morning, district collector Sachin Kurve said , “No holiday has been declared for Nagpur schools by my office.”
 
 Though no official holiday was declared, the decision was not that easy for schools as they had to look at multiple factors. A principal said, “My school is on the outskirts and roads are in horrible condition after heavy rains. Parents dropping kids by two-wheelers are risking their safety while buses might get stuck in the muddy road.”
 
 Also, if they declare a holiday, then it becomes a problem in homes where both parents are working and no caretaker is available. “School is the best and safest daycare parents have nowadays,” said another principal.
 
 While education officials won’t say it officially, they advised schools to use their discretion. “Some schools may have bad approach roads, some maybe in waterlogging-prone areas, making it unsafe for kids. Schools know what’s the best course of action and we have to trust them,” the official said.
 
 Hence, it’s no wonder that neither anyone complains nor any objection is taken to a school’s decision to remain closed. Regardless of the reasons, schools just did not have enough time to react on Wednesday. A principal said, “Heavy rains started around 8.30am by which time majority of kids had already arrived on campus. Hence, it was too late to declare a holiday.”
 
 Another principal said, “In the morning, it’s so hard to predict how the rains will hold up later in the day and that’s why we always want to know what the education department’s stand is.”
 
 Principals told TOI that it’s very rare for rains to cause havoc in Nagpur and force everything to shut down. “Frankly, it’s the parents who panic a lot and the recent situation in Mumbai has aggravated the situation,” a principal said.
 
 
