Nagpur: With the online preference submission deadline coming to an end on Friday, the admission process for health sciences courses, being conducted by State CET Cell, progressed to next stage.

 According to provisional merit list of National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) UG 2017, 50,623 candidates would be vying for a place in 10 different faculties in health sciences at 300 colleges in the state. Among the 10 faculties, medical, dental, ayurved, unani, physiotherapy, BSc Nursing, Occupational Therapy are the popular ones.
 
 As on June 29, 900 MBBS including 50 BDS seats are available across six government medical colleges (GMCs) and one dental college in Vidarbha. The GMCs are located in Nagpur, Gondia, Akola, Chandrapur and Yavatmal. While GMC Nagpur has 200 seats, IGGMC has 150. The only government dental college of the region having 50 seats too is in Nagpur.
 
 In five private colleges of the region having three in Nagpur, 300 MBBS and 350 BDS seats are available.
 
 Two days after displaying the provisional merit, the cell had activated the link for online preference filling on the website www.dmer.org and www.mahacet.org on July 15. The cell has set July 21, till 3pm, as the last date for preference submission and no extension would be given for the process.
 
 Officials had urged candidates to not to wait till the last day for filling their preferences. Delays due to power failure or technical reasons too wouldn’t be accepted if any candidate misses the deadline. They have also asked students to keep a print out of the preference form after submission, though it doesn’t have to be submitted.
 
 Officials said students also need to keep in mind that preference of college and course has to be opted carefully and after due consideration since it can’t be changed once the form is submitted online.
 
 The candidates can opt for a minimum of 1 and maximum of 300 preferences in the form.
 
 The submitted preferences will be used for two (or more) round of admission process. In the second or subsequent round, preferences will not be asked for.
 
 Officials said it is likely that the All India Quota will be surrendered by the central government to the state. For this, separate online preferences will be collected from the candidates.
 
 The State CET cell had prepared the provisional merit list on the basis of information submitted by students. But, the eligibility and final assigned categories and region of candidates will be subject to document verification.
 
 
