The UK-India Year Of Culture kicked off with a grand reception at   by  , which was also attended by Prince William and Kate, among other royals. The cream of sports, fashion, the arts and showbusiness from India and of Indian-origin was invited to celebrate Indo-British ties. Among the guests was sitarist  ,  , Asif Kapadia, Kunal Nayyar, Manish Arora,  , Kamal Haasan and Kapil Dev.

  From London, Anoushka tells us, "It was really lovely. It was nice to see a selection of people from India and of Indian-origin from here, all in one room." About meeting the   with her mother, Sukanya, and her husband, filmmaker Joe Wright, she says, "There was a queue to meet the Queen – she’s amazing, she was standing for so long meeting everyone, shaking everyone’s hand one by one, very quickly. When our turn came, I told her that I had met her when I was a little girl, with my father, and she asked who my father was, and then suddenly she broke the queue and spoke with us for a few minutes. She had some lovely memories of my father’s performance – he had done a private concert for the royal family when I was seven or eight. She was speaking with my mum very warmly."
 
  Did she meet any other interesting people? "There were lots of people I know from different walks of life. It was interesting meeting Asif Kapadia. Joe was very much there as my husband that night, and I finally found Asif, someone that he knew from long back. It was nice to get to know him a little bit. And it was nice seeing Manish Arora, who is a friend of mine, after a long time," she says.
 
  
  Anoushka Shankar and her mother, Sukanya, with Queen Elizabeth at the Buckingham Palace reception
 
 
  As part of the Year of Culture, the British Film Institute (BFI) is restoring the 1928 silent film Shiraz, which tells the tale of the building of the Taj Mahal. The Indo-British-German production was made by and stars the iconic Himanshu Rai, and now, Anoushka is composing the background score for its restored version. "I’m really excited about that," she says, "This whole event at the Palace was kicking off the Year of Culture between India and the UK. There are various things going on, and one of them is that the BFI is also focusing very much on India. Their big premiere will be the restoration of Shiraz, and they’ve commissioned me to write a new score for it. So I’m really excited and really nervous, because writing a score for a silent film, it's a really big, solid piece of music!" After this, she adds, she's "very open" to doing music for more films, and also reveals she has collaborated with Arijit Singh for a song for an Indian film, though she can’t say which one. "I just worked with Arijit Singh a couple of weeks ago after he came to London to record me for a song that he’s doing, so that’s my, kind of, collaboration on the Indian side. He's making a film, and he came to London to record me for a week for the film’s soundtrack. It was lovely to record with him, he’s a sweetheart," she reveals.
 
  Anoushka was also nominated for the sixth time for the Grammy Awards that happened recently, but she was sixth-time-unlucky. She says, "You know what, I had the best time I've ever had there. My husband was there for the first time, and we just had a really lovely time together. We were given the most incredible seats somehow, we were in the third row, in the main section. We were across the aisle from Beyonce, and we were two seats behind Adele, and I was right behind Katy Perry and Lady Gaga. It was all crazy, like we were in the middle of this amazing group of people. The disappointment of not winning was for a few minutes, and then I just kind of made a decision to enjoy being there. And it was really great fun."
 
 
