DEHRADUN: A day after TOI reported about death of 17 Char Dham pilgrims in 19 days, 16 of them due to  , Union health minister   spoke with   Trivendra Singh Rawat and offered Centre’s medical assistance for the six-month-long pilgrimage. Taking into account the seriousness of the matter, the CM ordered a cardiac ambulance and a cardiologist to be stationed immediately at Guptkashi.
 
  Meanwhile, three more deaths have been reported on the Yamunotri route, all of them due to cardiac arrest, taking the toll to 20.
  
  When asked, CM Rawat said, “The Union health minister called me up and we spoke on the issue. He has offered medical assistance for the Char Dham yatris.” During a video-conferencing session with top state and police officers on Wednesday, the CM said that special attention needs to be given to the healthcare facilities for devotees coming to Uttarakhand for the Cham Dham yatra.
  
  Rawat maintained that heart patients among pilgrims need to be given the right advice and asked not to continue ahead. At the same time, he laid thrust on maintaining the record of pilgrims who continue with the yatra despite being told not to, on health grounds. Soon after the CM’s orders, a cardiac ambulance and a cardiologist were deployed at Guptkashi.
  
  Meanwhile, the health department has decided to improve the medical facilities on the Kedarnath route which is more challenging and dangerous, especially for old-age pilgrims.
  
  Officiating director general of health department, Dr D S Rawat, said, “Since we have seen more casualties on the Kedarnath route, we have decided to deploy a cardiologist there. And as we don't have any cardiologist, we will try to hire one from private hospitals.”
  
  Dr Rawat strongly suggested that the pilgrims must listen carefully and adhere to the medical advice offered by the officials deployed in 60 health check posts across the Char Dham yatra route.
  
  Health department officials claimed that pilgrims don’t adhere to dos and don’ts of the yatra and the elderly among them are getting struck by hypothermia (abnormally low body temperature) and hypoxemia (low concentration of oxygen in blood) resulting in cardiac arrest.
  
  Dr  , health department nodal officer of Char Dham yatra, said, “Of the 20, one died due to head injuries while all others succumbed to cardiac arrest triggered by hypothermia, hypoxemia and in some cases due to undetected disease (not known to pilgrims) as the autopsy reports revealed.”
  
  Unlike Amarnath yatra, the health department has yet not made health certificate mandatory for Char Dham pilgrims. Dr Rawat, however, said, “We suggest all those above 60 years of age to bring their fitness certificates and undergo medical tests at different health check posts set up on the yatra route.”
  
  The pilgrims, on the other hand, had blamed the spike in cardiac arrest cases to lack of cardiologists in health facilities set up on the yatra route. For the record, Uttarakhand doesn’t have even a single cardiologist in any of its government hospitals, though 23 posts of cardiologists are sanctioned. Currently, there are two diploma-holder cardiologists (those who obtain a diploma in cardiology after their MBBS and are not MD or MS) in the entire state and both of them have applied for voluntary retirement.
