Released a week ago and already a  , Paula Hawkins’s second novel 
  is another interesting domestic suspense novel, adding more volume but perhaps less substance to this overworked genre. Most books dealing with domestic suspense have an unreliable narrator, preferably a woman, with a view to reveal one shocker of a moment towards the end, when the reader realizes that his perspective in reading the book has been wrong all along.

 
  begins with a shocking moment and goes on to delve into the past life of a dead woman and a dead teenage girl eventually revealing the sinister reason behind a murder and an apparent suicide.
 
 Unlike Hawkins’s previous book 
 , which had a small number of characters limited to certain neighbouring houses, Into the Water opens on a larger canvas and portrays an entire community. Told from 11 different perspectives, the narrative gets untidy and somehow fails to deliver what the arresting start promises. Often, the tones of certain characters do not seem quite distinct from some other characters, thereby leaving little scope for character development.
 
 The story has a great plot. The mystery is indeed gripping but it keeps loosening along the muddled narrative. The fact that this book has already sold millions is a tribute to Hawkins’ storytelling genius and the promising prospect she illustrated with her first book. Following through expectations with a second novel is indeed hard, but 
 , despite some structural flaws, overcomes the curse of obscurity, and with flying colours! Paula Hawkins’s magnetic linguistic performance ensures that. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  writes in 
 , “Into the Water chugs off to a slow, perplexing start, but it develops a head of steam at an unlikely moment. It has exactly one smart, perfectly conceived Hitchcockian page: its last.”
 
 Reviewing 
  for 
 , crime author 
  writes, "Hawkins had a mountain to climb after the success of 
 and no doubt the sales of her second thriller will be massive. I suspect her readers' enjoyment may be less so." 
 
 
  writes for 
 , “Like a washing machine stuck in spin cycle, without the sudsy emotion that would give it pulp appeal, 
  goes over and over the same ground for nearly 400 pages, tossing its large cast of narrators together to confusing effect.” 
 
 
