AHMEDABAD: Following orders from the Ahmedabad district collector, around 1 pm, illegal encroachments within   began being demolished. This was a sweet victory for the Bodakdev residents’ association which has been raising issues of parking and traffic chaos outside, as well as within school campus since November last year.

  “This has now set a precedent for almost 16 major schools in the city and other such institutions that eat up parking space and force students to park vehicles and organize pick-ups outside the school premises, thus causing traffic chaos,” said a key member of the association, Shailesh Maheshwari.
 
 Maheshwari had lodged a complaint with district grievance redressal forum called SWAGAT, led by collector  , on March 23. 
 
 “The city traffic police, district education officer,  , AUDA and revenue officials were present during the hearing. I had apprised them, with photographs, that a major portion of the playground was being used for parking,” said Maheswari.
 
 “The underground cellar parking was reduced by 40% and used for staff parking, and there was no way a fire tender could enter the school in event of a fire, as there were steps at the entrance,” Maheswari added.
 
 On April 15, a joint site visit was conducted by police, revenue, DEO, AMC, AUDA including Singh, who saw first-hand that certain parameters were not met by the school in terms of fire safety, parking, primary school rules and revenue conditions. 
 
 “The land for playground was given to the school on a token rate by the government under certain conditions. But the school had made permanent constructions for parking on a large part of the playground,” said Maheswari, adding, “The ground should have been open for general public during non-school hours.”
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 It’s not a Bodakdev school alone, but several schools in the city are violating norms, causing chaos and inconveniencing their neighbourhoods. A crack team of AMC, AUDA, fire department, traffic police, revenue and DEO should conduct surprise school visits to witness how schools flout norms and take action on spot. Resident welfare associations around large school premises should start raising these issues with local authorities.
 
