KOLKATA: Two days after  's poem, which invited an FIR against him, was removed from Facebook, the social networking site on Sunday sent the poet an apology mail. The poem, "Abhishaap", which   posted on March 19, is now back on his page. 

 "This is our moral victory. I always had faith that the poem would be restored on my wall," Srijato said.
 
 After the poem was removed on March 24, at least two users shared screenshots of emails in which Facebook reportedly stated: "We reviewed the share you reported for displaying hate speech. Since it violated our  , we removed it. Thanks for your report. We let Srijato Bandopadhyay know their share has been removed but not who reported it".
 
 Going by its policy, Facebook removes hate speech, which includes content that directly attacks people based on their race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, sex, gender, or gender identity or serious disabilities or diseases. 
 
 On March 25, author Sunil Gangopadhyay's US-based son Shouvik put up a post on Facebook, protesting against the move: "I am re-posting a poem that I am told was removed, based on Facebook policies of 'abuse'. I am not sure what kind of diligence is usually conducted to accompany your actions but I would like to submit this post was not abusive at all. It criticized some very hateful speech by a politician and did contain an oblique reference to a Hindu god which could be considered by some as derogatory... However, it did not contain any abusive language, nor any incendiary speech that would incite violence... I am hoping it was not a knee-jerk reaction based on what has been a public display of chumminess between Mark Zuckerberg and the current Indian ruling party." 
 
 Facebook had a change of heart on March 26 and sent a mail to Srijato, saying: "A member of our team accidentally removed something you posted on Facebook... we sincerely apologize for the error. We've since restored the content, and you should now be able to see it". 
 
