COIMBATORE: Financial marketplace  .com has announced the launch of its paperless and presence-less   ( ) platform. With this, investors would be able to evaluate, select and purchase the product within minutes.

 BankBazaar’s MF platform has OTP (one time password)-based eKYC process which makes investment instant, paperless, and presence-less. Markets regulator SEBI currently permits investment of Rs 50,000 in a financial year per asset management company for investors using Aadhaar-based eKYC using OTP-based authentication.
 
 BankBazaar’s MF platform offers mutual fund products on one-time investment model. The company said that its MF platform will present mutual fund products of all major fund houses and include monthly investment SIP (systematic investment plan) option by the end of this quarter.
 
 “The platform is based on advanced technology to provide real time portfolio options to customers based on their current financial profile,” BankBazaar said. “The search results are optimised based on the inputs provided by the customer and consist of funds that have fared well in a long-term performance analysis,” it said.
 
 In addition, BankBazaar will offer a personalised dashboard that will allow customers to track all their investments at one place. Customers can also invest more or redeem anytime through this dashboard. With this instant customisation option, BankBazaar.com said it has de-jargonised the entire mutual fund purchase, making it simple especially for new investors.
 
 “MFs allow for goal-oriented wealth creation. As an inflation-proof investment that can be invested in both debt and equity asset classes, MFs provide varying degrees of returns for customers across all levels of risk appetite,” said Ajit Narasimhan, head- savings & investment categories, BankBazaar.com.
 
 The instant, paperless, presence-less MF product by BankBazaar comes with a simplified application process and portfolios for everyone—from the highly risk averse to the more adventurous investor, he stated.
 
 BankBazaar said it gets an average of 10 million visitors per month. The company raised $80 million through funding from investors such as Amazon, Fidelity Growth Partners, Mousse Partners, Sequoia India and Walden International.
 
 
