

 In what is one of the most bizarre decisions in judicial history of the world, the   of Pakistan has disqualified a sitting PM by holding him guilty of not being honest, sagacious and truthful, and after first holding him guilty, ordered a trial against him for his misdemeanours. 
 
 In most parts of the world, the judicial system works the other way around. But then the Pakistani judiciary is sui generis.
 
 Worse, it has become a power centre in its own right, arrogating to itself the right to make and break governments:   is the second PM who has been dismissed by the judiciary. The impact of this judgment will be very destabilising for Pakistan’s fledgling democracy.
 
 The courts have set a precedent which will henceforth be used against every PM because, as many Pakistani thinkers have said, ‘except for  , no one else can stand the scrutiny of Article 62 & 63 of the Pakistani constitution which lays down who is truthful, sagacious, non-profligate and honest and therefore legible to become an MP’.
 
 Already, the very same clauses that have resulted in the guillotining of Nawaz Sharif are also sought to be applied on his bête noire,   and his cronies. 
 
 The courts could, of course, turn a blind eye to Imran Khan’s alleged peccadilloes and his undisclosed assets — after all, he has willingly become the cat’s paw of the Pakistan army against Nawaz Sharif. Even so, a virus has been unleashed in Pakistan’s body politic that will leave a lasting impact on democratic consolidation and political stability.
 
 Sharif’s options are limited. He could enter into a collision with the judiciary, and by extension the army. 
 
 But this would be disastrous course to adopt. What is better for him is if he appoints a loyalist as PM and follows the Sonia-Manmohan model, pulling the strings of power from his Raiwind Palace. That way he will be able to influence the court cases that he will now have to face once again. 
 
 While legally Sharif has suffered a grievous blow, politically he is still a force to reckon with. He will now present himself as a political martyr and with his formidable party machinery and patronage network in place, go into the next elections as a front runner. 
 
 Chances are that in a relatively free and fair election, he would win once again. As far as India is concerned, the political drama in Pakistan changes very little. It wasn’t as though Nawaz Sharif was very well disposed towards India. Ever since he came to power, he started raising the issue of Kashmir in international forums.
 
 Worse, the jihad factory in Kashmir restarted under his watch. In any case, Pakistan’s India policy isn’t made in Lahore or Islamabad but in Rawalpindi. It is the deep state and the military that formulates policy on India, and nothing has changed on this front. 
 
 
 
 
