NEW DELHI: A Muslim police constable, under suspension for the last five years pending disciplinary action for not adhering to Maharashtra State Reserve Police Force’s no-beard policy, on Thursday rejected the Supreme Court’s offer for his reinstatement if he agreed to keep his beard only during religious periods.

 Zahiroddin Shamsoddin Bedade was appointed as a constable in State Reserve Police Force on January 16, 2008. While posted in Jalna in February 2012, he applied to the commandant to keep a beard. In May 2012, he was permitted to do so. But five months later, the permission was withdrawn in view of the amended guidelines on beard issued by the Maharashtra home department.
 
 
 
 
 Challenging the withdrawal of permission, Bedade moved the Aurangabad bench of Bombay HC. The state responded to the petition and said he could keep a beard for a temporary period as per religious requirements. Accepting the state’s stand, the HC dismissed Bedade’s petition in December 2012. He filed an appeal against the HC judgment in the   in January 2013.
 
 Bedade’s counsel on Thursday requested a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul to list the petition, pending for the last four years, for early hearing. After consulting his colleagues on the bench, the   said, “We really feel bad for you. You should not remain out of work. If you wish, what we can do is to allow you to join back as constable if you undertake to keep a beard only during religious periods and not otherwise. It is your choice.” Bedade’s counsel said the constable was not fine withshaving off his beard. The bench said, “Then we cannot help you.” It also refused early hearing of the petition. Bedade had said in his petition, “ ...a citizen is free to practice his religion and the commandant of Reserve Police Force cannot interfere or violate his fundamental right.”
 
 In a December 15, 2016 judgment on a petition filed by IAF corporal Mohammad Zubair, the SC had said, “No material has been produced before this court to indicate that the appellant professes a religious belief that would bring him within the ambit of Regulation 425(b) which applies to ‘personnel whose religion prohibits the cutting of hair or shaving of the face of its members’.”
 
 
