LUDHIANA: The two-day 21st Annual   in the memory of former vice chancellor Dr M.S. Randhawa kick-started on Wednesday, with a large number of visitors and school students appreciating the wide variety of flowers and ornamental plants on display. 

 The flower show-cum-competition has been organised by the department of floriculture and landscaping,  , in collaboration with the Estate Organisation and the Department of Family Resource Management. Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice Chancellor, Punjab Agricultural University, inaugurated the show and emphasised the role of the university in promoting floriculture in Punjab by developing new varieties, production technologies and providing a platform for flower lovers through this show. 
 
 “Keeping in view the diversification plan of the state government, emphasis is being laid on commercial cultivation of flower crops,” he stated, while adding that currently 2150 hactare area is cultivated under floricultural crops. Dr Dhillon while paying tributes to Dr M.S. Randhawa recalled his contributions as an author of several books on ornamental trees, shrubs and gardens and towards beautifying the campus. 
 
 The vice chancellor urged the visitors to participate in various competitions at the flower show and grow plants to improve the quality of breathable air around their surroundings.
 
 Senior floriculturist H.S. Grewal, while giving details about the event, said that the competition is open to hobbyists, individuals, amateurs, private, government, semi government institutions and nurseries. There are nine different categories of fresh/dry flower arrangements, seasonal flowers, foliage plants, cacti, succulents, ferns and bonsai in the competition. A total of 1300 entries of 85 different sections have been received from various participants. The competition will award 92 first prizes and 106 second prizes.
 
 The prize distribution function will be held on the second day, where R.S. Sidhu, director, extension will be the chief guest. Ajmer Singh Dhatt, head, department of floriculture and landscaping said that the flower show and the chrysanthemum show have become a regular feature of the university attracting people from all walks of life.
 
 The show is open for public on March 1 and 2, 2016.
 
