With enviable salaries, social status and prospects to move abroad, the IT sector has been the vanguard of job security for the ‘medicine-engineering’ obsessed Malayali, for the past two decades. However, the $150 billion industry of the country has been going through a phase of transformation and as a result, the jobs of many are in jeopardy.

 In Bangalore, the country’s IT capital, alone, 30% of the techies are reportedly  , and most of them are caught unawares when their companies present them the pink slip. We talk to a few techie youngsters about what went wrong and their plans ahead, as   analyse what resulted in 
 the crisis.
 
 
 
 Employees reveal that the companies are going for cold-blooded job cuts, giving ridiculous reasons as excuses. Joseph Thomas*, who works in a multi-national company’s Kochi centre, says, “Many employees in our office have been asked to leave, especially at the associate and senior associate levels. The ‘firing’ is not over yet. As of now, those like me in projects are forcefully released from it saying either it is in loss or the company is wrapping it up. We are now moved to a group called talent pool. If we aren’t given a project in the next two months, we will be automatically out of the company as per the existing system.”
 This also gives companies a legal way out to say that these employees didn’t have any work, which is why they were ousted. “It’s all chaos around us now and I’m unsure how to proceed!” says Joseph.
 
 Apparently, it’s in this quarter that the most number of employees were given the lowest performance ratings, opines Reena Rose*, another techie from Kochi. “Even people who got relocated from a centre were awarded poor ratings blindly. A few others like me were given low rating citing that we have an hour or two less in the total time expected to be spent in office. This is so deplorable; we are thinking about moving legally.”
 
 Funnily enough, a few who were on maternity leave have also been put on notice period by some companies. Anitha Menon*, a techie, narrates her experience. “I got a mail saying that I won’t have a project when I am back after maternity leave. I was told that I will be given two months’ salary if I resign now or there would be a red mark on my termination letter. The company seems to also have randomly picked people whom they feel won’t object or raise their voices, regardless of the performance. People in my position won’t have time to oppose this decision, especially with a newborn baby at hand. I don’t know what’s ahead of us, at least for now.”
 
 For Vineesh Rajendran* from Kochi, who was waiting for a promotion at his company in Bangalore, the pink slip came as a slap on the face a few weeks ago. “Probably because they fear legal action from employees, everyone who was laid off was given ‘poor performance’ and related excuses. One of my senior managers was also asked to leave, and he is thinking about starting a new company with a few of us, who want to continue in the IT field.”
 
 Performance might have been the most quoted reason for the lay offs, but employees say that a few managers have also taken this opportunity to pack off those who didn’t share their ideologies. Aashish S V* from Trivandrum, who has been working in Chennai, says, “Along with a few of my colleagues, I have had some professional differences with my project manager on and off. We had even heard rumours that he is looking for reasons to send us packing and guess what, this was the perfect opportunity. Though we are in a fix now, we are thinking of ways and means to deal with this legally, if possible.”
 
 A few mention they are also thinking of involving labour unions in the issue, though everything is in the discussion stage currently. 
 
 
 
 Many techies accuse that though their employers claim to rate them in international standards, the HR departments aren’t following them diligently, especially now when employees are packed off sans sensible reasons. Twinkle Thomas*, a techie from Trivandrum, says, “We are now randomly given projects and performance ratings, hunting for reasons to fire us. For instance, I am someone who has worked in Java for the past 10 years and I was recently asked whether I can do administrative jobs in Oracle database. I said I can, if I am given training. Then, I was told, ‘Sorry, that is not possible, but you can start working on it tomorrow if you are ready!’ Where’s the logic in that? Doesn’t this amount to harassment?”
 
 
 
 The   has always followed the ‘bandhs, hartals, strikes don’t affect us’ policy and thus, people aren’t used to coming together for a common cause. Soorya C Nair*, a techie from Kochi, says, “IT is considered some sort of holy cow that should not be questioned. You have no right to form unions or even object to anything, for the fear of losing your job.”
 
 Some companies have apparently told their employees that if at all they are fired, their managers who are in touch with other companies will help them get a job. “We are asked not to talk to media, public or other outfits about the details of the firing, as otherwise we would lose that scope too. Even those forcefully terminated are scared that if they speak against the company, tomorrow they won’t get a job anywhere,” says an employee.
 
 
 
 In addition to the routine annual culls based on performance, the reported reasons of the IT majors to significantly reduce their workforce include a handful of irreversible, long-term industry trends,   on Indian engineers at the client sites for work, slow revenue growth, protectionist politics in major economies and even some ugly boardroom struggles in certain major Indian companies.
 
 However, employees have a different picture to give. “Projects in the companies are taken up quoting resources and telling the client that there are ‘n’ number of people working on it, offshore. For this, they do bulk recruitment, without following the necessary hiring guidelines. Resources get hired for projects, not companies. After the project is completed, the employees are treated like curry leaves,” says Reena. Now the reasons they give are the US president Trump’s new policies, robotics, digitalisation and the like. They will have to reduce some resources in India and recruit more in the US and probably this is the best way to do it, she adds.
 
 However, experts have a range of different observations on the same. Start Up Village Chairman Sanjay Vijayakumar says, “This is not an overnight or solely Indian phenomenon. Now, it’s also visible to the public, that’s all. Over the past eight years, the IT industry has moved to a digital cloud, from a physical data centre, because of which many job roles are no longer needed. Most of them are easily replaceable, low-end jobs. True, there are   in the senior management too. They are asked to leave as they are paid too much for their old job roles – they had business viability till a point and now it’s over. Moreover, most of them are in their late forties and not in an age to adapt and learn further. That is the reality.”
 
 While experts say that the companies will continue to grow as the service industry is still relevant, the number of people required to do these jobs will tremendously come down.
 
 G Vijayaraghavan, Technopark’s first CEO, says, “As per the recent studies and industry interaction, the system needs substantial re-training if many of them have to retain their jobs. Those who are trainable will get opportunities in areas like machine learning, artificial intelligence, data analytics and the like, which are picking up.”
 
 
 
 While a few among the laid off lot already have plans to either study, shift fields or search for other jobs, many say that they are clueless about what to do next. Vidya Nair*, a techie, puts it, “I am as clueless as ever, now. I am already tired of studying enough for engineering. Currently, I am just sending my CVs to as many head-hunters as possible – the picture is too bleak and worrisome.”
 
 Aashish observes, “Many I know are now thinking of pursuing their hobbies seriously, like baking, teaching and the like, as they don’t have another interim option in mind yet.”
 
 Career expert B S Warrier says, “The top tier companies might be laying off, but these techies still have opportunities as many other players are also hiring, parallelly. The fields of banking, management and research are also fields to which these BTech holders can consider switching, if interested.”
 
 
 
 
