HYDERABAD: Orders of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Lokayukta and other restrictions imposed by cops failed to deter the stick-wielding revellers at   Festival in Kurnool district on Saturday night. Around 15,000 men wielding sticks and logs attacked each other to take control over the idol of Lord Shiva in Holagunda mandal, leaving one man dead and 34 injured in its wake. The   sees men from border villages of Karnataka and Kurnool clash with one another as part of  . Over 1lakh people gathered to participate and witness the festival, leading to a near-stampede like situation. In the midst, a 60-year-old man suffered a he art attack and collapsed.

 In 2012, Lokayukta asked officials to ensure that the festival at   is violence-free. Police claim that drone cameras,   and awareness campaigns have decreased the violence, but it did not prevent it.
 
 “We followed the orders of Lokayukta, due to which number of injured came down from 35 last year to 11 this year,“ Kurnool district collector SSatyanarayana told TOI. But the 1,200-strong police force led by district SP , two additional SPs, 23 inspectors and 40 subinspectors were no match for the crowd.
 
 “We will issue FIR against the revellers for resorting to violence. Despite CrPC section 144 being in place, partici pants violated the rules and carried deadly weapons like sticks with steel rings. Mainly three villages, Neranaki, Kotapeta and Neraniki Tanda, fight over taking control over the deity during the procession,“ Holagunda sub-inspector E Maruti told TOI, However, top cops believe there is no fighting involved.Kurnool SP Gopinath Jetty , who witnessed the festival, told TOI, “Before watching it, I thought it was a fighting festival. But revellers are well disciplined. When they throw torches, people run to escape the fire, resulting in injuries. I believe in the next five years, there will be zero injuries.“
 
 Though the temple falls in category C of endowments department, attempts made by officials to take over control have failed, reportedly due to interference of local TDP leaders. The temple revenues are almost nil. “We participate only in coordination meetings during the festival," said endowments department (Kurnool) assistant commissioner D Anand Kumar.
 
