HYDERABAD: The new rule put in place by central government, making   card mandatory for school students to get free mid-day meals at government schools, may deprive scores of underprivileged children of the hot meals.

 In  , about 35% children below the age of 5 and about 15% people between 5 and 18 years do not have a UID number. All these kids can be denied their mid-day meals at schools when the new rule will be implemented, beginning June.
 
 “I have heard of the new rule and I am very scared that my daughter will be denied mid-day meals at her schools from the next academic year. We have no address proofs and don't know whether we can get an Aadhaar card before school reopens,“ said S Kumar, whose child is studying in a government school in   area.
 
 Meanwhile, child rights activists lashed out at the central government for taking steps that are likely to deny a child his basic right just because he or she does not have an Aadhaar number. “The central government should immediately withdraw this initiative. It is inhumane for it to say that children will not be provided with food if they don't have Aadhaar. It was the government's responsibility to give Aadhaar to everyone and poor children should not pay for government's mistake,“ said Achyuta Rao, a child rights activist.
 
 In fact, the Centre's decision is also in conflict with the  's directives related to Aadhaar. The latter had ruled in 2014 that in the overall scheme of things, Aadhaar card would not be mandatory and that no person shall be deprived of any service for want of Aadhaar number in case heshe is otherwise eligibleentitled.
 
 As a consequence, it requested all the national institutes to ensure that the Aadhaar card was mentioned in their forms as a document which was not compulsory. In 2015, SC reiterated, “The Aadhaar card scheme is purely voluntary and it cannot be made mandatory till the matter is finally decided by this court.“ 
 
 Meanwhile, Telangana government officials said that they would make sure that all children receive Aadhaar cards by June. “If needed, we will conduct special drives at educational institutions,“ said a senior official from education department.
 
