NAGPUR: Just 72 hours after its launch, the   initiative has been put on hold indefinitely by the   due to  . The education department’s decision confirms TOI’s report on Monday which stated that the selfie feature of the mobile attendance app will be scrapped soon. 

 On Wednesday afternoon education minister Vinod Tawde told TOI that improper implementation of the app was the reason for his decision. “Our initiative ‘selfie with out of schoolchildren’ is being put on hold until further notice due to lack of clarity on its implementation,” said Tawde. The education department says the selfie initiative was supposed to be for ‘out of school’ children along with regular ones, and had to be taken in groups of 10 each. 
 
 Schools were extremely pleased with the decision but wanted the minister to go a bit further. A senior teacher said, “I am not comfortable with handling these smartphones. I could not even take that selfie and instead asked another teacher to do it for me. We are glad that it’s gone and now even the mobile attendance process should be scrapped.” A principal said that replacing registers and muster books is an   but a bit ahead of its time. “Lot of people won’t like what I am saying but the fact is that we are still a pen-and-paper kind of establishment. Transfer certificates and attendance registers are needed in hard copy for records. The education department must first start trials for schools storing data online and then accessing it at click of a button. Let’s see if it works or not and whether we face technical challenges,” she said. 
 
 An education official told TOI that schools are unnecessarily resisting change which is going to be beneficial in the long run. “Digitalization of data is going to help us all. Now if in December we ask schools to give us attendance records of last four months they will take photocopies of their register pages for entire school, which will be hundreds of pages. Now we can check attendance instantly of any school in the state in almost real time. So technically we are saving both time and money of schools, hence it is surprising why they are protesting,” he said.
 
