DHARAMSALA: They were supposed to be pushovers for India. But Australia proved anything but that, giving the hosts a scare in the Test series they lost 1-2. Just when the visitors required one more gritty performance, they slipped and India won inside four days in Dharamsala reclaim the  .

 On Monday evening, after India bowled the Aussies out for 137 in the second innings and were just 80-odd away from the 106-run target, there was "pin-drop silence in the Australia dressing room" ­ as batting coach   put it.
 
 A day later, captain   echoed the same sentiment in his final tour presser, though he retained a sense of pride that his side wasn't outplayed in the series. "We have fought very hard throughout this series. To fall over at the final hurdle hurts and the boys are disappointed," the Australia captain said.
 
 "We've certainly had our opportunities but we haven't taken those. India will get back in the game and make you pay. From that aspect, it's disappointing we haven't been able to take advantage when we have been in front. But I am really proud of the boys for the way we have competed in this series," Smith said.
 
 "This team has grown so quickly. We are still a very young side. It wasn't too long ago we were at Hobart (against South Africa) and it was the end of the world. So I am proud of the way we have been able to turn things around and really compete in these conditions," Smith said proudly.
 
 Talking about individual performances, besides his own 499 runs in the series including three centuries, Smith lauded   and Cummins in particular for their ability to adapt and perform.
 
 India captain  , who missed the fourth Test due to a shoulder injury, said Australia came here with a lot of belief which helped them perform the way they did.
 
 "I think they had the belief of making things happen in these conditions. That's something I sensed in their body language. They believed they could win sessions and that was the most challenging thing for us. Teams lose their morale once they lose a Test in India, but they kept bouncing back," Kohli said.
 
