Last year, Pune’s Sir Parshurambhau (SP) College made history by winning the   for the fourth time, a feat never achieved by any other college. This year, it was time for another first-of-its-kind feat — Ahmednagar’s New Arts, Commerce and Science College winning the Karandak.

  “Our hard work seems to have paid off. We are feeling very confident now,” an elated   Walke said. Krushna was part of the 16-member winning team. Their play Mic, showed how agenda can be pushed forth for personal gains with on a stage built by and for common good. “In the play, we showed how a stage was built by people hailing from different backgrounds who come together for a common cause. However, when there was a mic placed on the stage it is exploited to feed the biases of few. All it results into is cacophony,” Krushna added.
 
  The Hari Vinayak Karandak, given for the second place in the inter-collegiate one act play competition, went to Modern Engineering College. Their play, ASL (Age, Sex, Location) Please, was based on the theme of chatting with strangers. “There were two characters who are acquainted via chatting. What happens next with their relationship is what the play deals with,” informed Siddhant Patil, who directed the play.
  
  
 Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC) won the   for the third place. Their play stemmed from the removal of Ram Ganesh Gadkari’s statue in Pune a few months ago. The play titled Sorry Paranjape put forth a strong point in mere two scenes. “After the incident, I spoke to the writer Chinmay Deo and both of us came up with the play. In the first scene, we had some students discussing how they would ideate for the upcoming drama competition. The peaceful discussion soon takes a turn where it comes to caste and creed where some people allege that they have always been pushed on the back foot by some others. It culminates into some students stating that their symbol of culture, the statue of a great litterateur, has been demolished which were hurtful. It concludes with the fact that to respect any litterateur, one needs to rather follow his/her work rather than merely erecting statues,” informed Rishi Manohar, who directed the play.
  
  
  “The competition is known to bring forth socially-relevant topics which are explored by the students through their plays. All the three winning teams worked on topics that were relevant in today’s time. It was interesting to see BMCC student’s take on the Gadkari statue controversy. In Mic, we saw how people from every religion, demographic have built the country,” says  , one of the judges and theatre actor. 
 
  -Mayuri Phadnis
