PUNE: The Pune rural police on Monday moved a magisterial court at  , near here, seeking additional time of 45 days for filing a chargesheet in the murder of Capgemini techie   on December 23, 2016.

 Senior inspector Ram Jadhav of the crime branch told TOI, “The plea for extension of deadline has been moved primarily on the grounds that the narco-analysis test of the lone arrested suspect,  , is expected to be conducted at the forensic sciences laboratory (FSL) in Kalina, Mumbai, towards the end of April or early in May. Besides, the FSL report relating to cellphone data is also awaited.”
 
 Antara Das was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant on the night of December 23, 2016, barely a few metres from the Capgemini campus in Talawade while she was walking her way back home. 
 
 In the probe that followed, the police arrested Gupta, a former colleague of the victim, from Bengaluru on December 28, 2016 on the charge of alleged conspiracy to get her eliminated by a hired killer. The actual killer has not been arrested yet. Antara’s parents had complained that Gupta was harassing and stalking her when the two were working in Bengaluru before she shifted to Pune six months prior to the incident. 
 
 The police were expected to file a chargesheet within a period of 90 days from the date of the suspect’s arrest. As the period ends on Tuesday, the police moved the plea for more time. 
 
 In a related matter, a sessions court in Pune was expected to pass an order on Gupta’s bail application after arguments over the plea by the defence and the prosecution lawyers completed last Friday. But the order was not passed on Monday. 
 
 Jadhav said, “Gupta has given his consent for undergoing brain mapping and narco-analysis test and the police have secured the court’s order for the same. However, there is a long waiting list for these tests at the FSL in Kalina and Gupta was likely to undergo the test by end of April or early in May. His cellphone is password protect and the FSL authorities have to decode the same for securing vital information which can be critical to furthering the investigation.”
 
 So far, the police have not been able to pinpoint Gupta’s role beyond the suspicion that he conspired to get her killed by a hired assailant. The sessions court too had asked the prosecution, while hearing the bail plea last Friday, as to whether any proof existed about Gupta having hatched the conspiracy. The police’s inability to file chargesheet within the 90-day time may result in the suspect getting the benefit of bail. 
 
