 students voted for their new union as ABVP, NSUI and AISA candidates contested the DUSU elections on Tuesday. The Ramjas incident was probably the biggest incident that shook the entire university earlier this year, and so the demand has been a violence free campus. That reflected on the voter turn-out too, as more students turned up to vote for the right candidate. For the police, who try to keep the campus violence free round the year, the day of polling is even more important as they stay alert all day to ensure a smooth election. 

  The 'sensitive areas', like the   and Law Faculty, were blocked as entry was only permitted to those who had identity cards. Traffic was diverted to avoid any chaos at these places. The work of police personnel who were present in and around the campus had doubled due to the elections. Some of the officials on duty told us that the day of polling means extra duty hours along with keeping an eye on the slightest of developments and action of the party members. 
 
  
  You know it's election day when you see lots of police personnel and barricades put up in different parts of campus
 
 
  
 One of the officials on duty near Arts Faculty told us, "Polling started at 8:30am but we reached here at 5am. Arrangements had to be done before the elections. For us, it is a long day with two shifts. Since the polling was expected to happen in two shifts at the Law Faculty, we are definitely going to be here till the second round of polling ends. It is the biggest day for all these parties, that is why the security personnel are more in number, to avoid any chaos."
 
  
 Another official on duty near the   told us, "We make sure that party members or a large group of students do not gather near the college area or anywhere today in campus. If we see that the two opposing parties have gathered at the same place, we ensure that there are more police officials in the same area. Though we avoid having two or more contending parties in the same area, but if that happens, we make sure that nobody starts fighting or does anything that can lead to a verbal or physical exchange. Humari koshish rehti hai ki peaceful tarike se sab ho jaye."
 
  
  
 
  
 Keeping in mind the Ramjas incident, when violence broke out between members of AISA and ABVP in February this year, a police official on duty near Ramjas College told us, "There are police officials on duty at all colleges of North Campus on the day of polling. But the security is higher at Arts Faculty, Law Faculty and Ramjas College this time. Arts Faculty aur Law Faculty pe toh har saal zyada security hoti hai. All the protests take place at Arts Faculty and it is close to the VC's office as well. As far as Law Faculty is concerned, most of these party members are from the Law Faculty. It is like a hub for most of them, that is why the security is higher. Ramjas is also one of the sensitive areas this time because of the incident that happened. Ab yahan kuch bhi hota hai toh security chahiye hi hoti hai, aaj toh fir bhi elections hain."
 
 
 Another official on duty near   told us, "We started our day at 5am. Aur 3 baje tak toh shayad colleges ki voting khatam ho jaye. Par Law Faculty pe chalegi voting second half mein toh shayad rehna pade tab bhi. Voting aur results ke din yehi hota hai, kab tak duty chale kisi ko nahi pata. For parties, it is a big day because they want to win the elections. For us, it is a day of extra hard work to ensure that everything happens smoothly without any untoward incident in any part of the campus."
 
 
