NAGPUR: After his thumping victory by nearly 14,000 votes, probably the highest among all 151 corporators in the city, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) former standing committee chairman   aims to continue the development agenda of his party in his new term. He romped home with a margin of 13,967 votes over Congress’s Vijay Majrikar. Such a margin is usually seen in assembly parliamentary elections. His popularity in the area also helped other three BJP candidates, largely unknown to the voters, win with good margins.

 “It was mandate for huge developmental works being carried out under chief minister  . Additionally, overall coordination and organizational skills as well tremendous work put in the last few years by the party activists prompted the people to vote in our favour,” an elated Joshi told TOI.
 
 Considered a close aide of Fadnavis, 47-year-old Joshi has been active in politics since 1990, when he was a teen. He was first elected a corporator in 2002 from Laxmi Nagar ward and second time from NEERI ward in 2007. He completed a hat-trick from Jail ward, also including Laxmi Nagar and Dhantoli, as people from the area reposed faith in him for good work carried out in the area. Though he was expected to win, it was thought anti-incumbency may reduce his margin this time. He proved all predictions wrong by recording a thumping win.
 
 He has now set his vision on pending works in the area and setting up libraries for the youngsters. “We are also exploring possibilities of starting coaching centre for competitive examinations for the youths from area,” he said.
 
 Joshi is also the only corporator in NMC to have occupied the prestigious seat of standing panel chairman twice in 2010 and 2011. He was also appointed a trustee on Nagpur Improvement trust (NIT) from 2010 to 2012. During his tenure as chairman of  , he introduced the 24X7 water supply scheme in city. He was brain behind Rajendra Science Exploratory for schoolchildren and ‘Vision Next Foundation’ for youngsters. Currently, he is chairman of Nagpur District Basketball Association (NDBA) and  .
 
 His two tenures as standing panel chief were considered one of most productive ones when a lot of developmental works were started and also NMC’s revenue surged by Rs143 crore. He granted funds for construction of indoor stadiums at Vikas Nagar and also for Suresh Bhat auditorium coming up in Reshimbagh. Even removal of overhead electric wires started at same time and cement road works of about 26 kms worth Rs100 crore were completed. The popular Nagpur Mohotsav was started by him and also introduced one-time settlement scheme. 
 
