BENGALURU:   said a 30-year-old techie who alleged on her   that a   and passengers in it had misbehaved with her on Thursday near Uttarahalli,  , has backtracked, saying she had exaggerated it and was withdrawing the allegation.

 The woman later deleted the post and became incommunicado after police took suo motu cognizance of the case and sought to get in touch with her.
 
 Subramanyapura police on Friday questioned the driver and conductor of Route 600, and both rejected the allegations.
 
 The woman, who is from Andhra Pradesh, deleted the Facebook post and switched off her phone the minute they tried to contact her, police said.
 
 Police officials said they tried to reach her through Facebook, and requested her to make herself available to give a statement. But the woman deleted her FB profile, they added.
 
 “We tried to reach her for a statement. Unfortunately, we were unable to trace her. With help from the cybercrime department, we found the company she was working with and approached the HR personnel, her friends and colleagues, requesting them to share her details and contact number," police said.
 
 Later in the evening, two women police officers knocked on the doors of her house. The woman apologized and requested that she be pardoned, as she had exaggerated a minor exchange of words and was withdrawing the allegation, police officers said.But she declined to give the same in writing, they added.
 
 Earlier in the day, BMTC officials visited Subramanyapura police as well as cyber crime police to discuss the issue.
 
 “We read the Facebook post and cross-checked with the route number. The woman had wrongly mentioned the Route No as 500. In fact, it is Route No 600 and plies on Outer Ring Road," BMTC officials said.
 
 BMTC managing director Ekroop Caur said she had summoned the conductor and driver. “We spoke to them and sought their explanation.They denied the incident, saying the woman alighted from the bus when it was slowing," Caur told reporters.
 
 “We will never compromise when it comes to a woman's safety and will punish the accused stringently if we get evidence," she added.
 
 
 
 
 “After boarding the bus from Ragigudda near Jayanagar, I had taken a ticket of Rs 14 and had given Rs 20 to conductor. When asked for the change, he just smiled and walked away.Little later, I saw him misbehaving with another woman who got down near Kadirenahalli. At this time, I was alone. When he came near, I asked for the change again and he replied: Give me a love letter, I shall give you the change. Irritated by his reply, I shouted and asked the driver to stop the bus. Driver answered saying he shall stop the vehicle near my house. By then, four men from behind came near me, one tried to snatch my bag while others tried to touch me. I ran towards the door. The bus had stopped as an ambulance was passing. I jumped down and reached a traffic constable, explained to him everything. He noted down the bus number and lodged a complaint with Subramanyapura police."
 
