NAGPUR: Around 30 members of   (NSUI) staged a   of the  , which is being handled by  , in front of the university building at Civil Lines on Thursday.

 Over the last week, TOI has been reporting about NU’s blunders in results of Master of Science (MSc) chemistry, mathematics and electronics. Earlier this year, the exam section committed several goof-ups in law, arts, BBA, MEd results.
 
 The NSUI protesters insisted that they be allowed entry from the main gate, which has been closed for thoroughfare since the ABVP members brought cycles inside the premises in December last year. 
 
 When the guards asked them to use another entrance, the NSUI members climbed the main gate raising slogans against the vice-chancellor and the Pro-VC. Finally, they were given entry from the main gate with a condition that only five members would be allowed and no placards or slogans would be raised inside.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane held a meeting with the protesters for nearly half-an-hour. Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, Neeraj Khaty was also present.
 
 The NSUI claimed that though both VC Kane and Khaty admitted exam section’s blunders, they blamed it on students. “The VC said there is confusion among students over credit-based system (CBS) and choice-based credit system (CBCS). He claimed students don’t check if they are attempting CBS or CBCS. We demanded that it is NU’s job to clear the doubt of students regarding the exam pattern,” NSUI vice-president Ajith Singh told TOI.
 
 Contrary to the VC’s statement, Khaty had told TOI on May 9 that the confusion was due to the software.
 
 Singh said that Kane has assured them that corrective measures would be taken so that students are not made to suffer. “We asked them why such blunders are taking place regularly. The website is displaying a marklist with a different date while the results are declared on some other dates. We told them that if the exam section continues with this, we will stage a big protest,” Singh said.
 
 The NSUI also raised the issue of wrong numbers and lack of helpline to address grievances of outstation students.
 
