She was an average looking girl but she loved and lived fiercely. We lived close-by and soon became friends. We took tuitions together, discussed our crushes, and snacked on spicy food. Smile on her face and spring in her feet - that’s how she was. After her board results, she went to an engineering college and I joined a journalism course. We lost touch over the years. But it was a few years ago while writing a blog on my best buddies, I thought of her. I tried finding her on social media networks but no luck. We didn’t even have any common friends whom I could call so I gave up all hopes of finding her…

 This New Year’s I got many messages from unknown numbers and I blankly replied ‘Thank You’ to each. But one number reverted with a “Pehchana?” I checked the display picture and saw her - posing in a basic salwar kameez, she still looked the same. I was excited and started asking rapid questions. She was taking time to reply. Then I received a book cover on WhatsApp. It was her on the cover and the title read, Let Life Be Light, The benefits of IgA   - autobiography by Jyoti Saini. The term nephropathy didn’t sound right, so I Googled about the disease and was quite shocked to read about it. I asked many questions but she insisted I first read the book. I ordered it and finished it in two sittings.
 
 We had last met in 2003 and the book traced her life from 2004 to 2016. She went through a lot. Diagnosed with a rare   disease when she was ready for an exciting career. Finding a job. Fighting the disease. Finding love in the midst of it. Fearing dialysis. Trying every doctor that promised some hope. Succumbing to depression, and then emerging out of it. Turning to God for strength. Going through painful dialysis to her journey to getting a kidney transplant.
 
 It pained me to realize that all these years when I was whining about lost love, politics at work, demanding in-laws, stressful work deadlines, weight gain and more, she was bravely fighting a life threatening chronic disease.
 
 She started with allopathy but steroids scared her. During that duration, she turned to homeopathy. Someone promised hope in naturopathy and she tried that too; didn’t even leave out Ayurveda. But when everything else failed, she surrendered herself to allopathy. In the most difficult situations, she was finding humour and hope. On one visit to a homeopath in Pune, she writes, “He kept on sleeping between our discussion. I didn’t even know if he understood the situation. But while leaving I couldn’t stop laughing about it.” Another time in the middle of dialysis, she asked the attendants to play some Bollywood music as she wanted distraction from the pain and process. Not only that, a night before her transplant, she was sharing the room with a patient who was in immense pain. She couldn’t stand the noises and so removed her patient’s robe and put on her night wear. "I couldn’t afford to be spotted. I asked my husband to wait for me outside the hospital and sneaked out in the middle of the night. I was back before the shift changed the next day. No one noticed my absence.”
 
 Inspired, I asked her how she got so much strength, she replied on a lighter note – a bit of insanity helps. It helps you with the will to go to any level to fix a problem. Rightly said, we give up too soon and she never gave up and happily told me today – ‘I recently got cataract but nothing to worry. I will soon get this corrected too.’
  
 
