PUNE: The   here has ruled that a   between a   is not binding upon the   who buys a vehicle from such a dealer. 

 The court has directed the Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company in Yerawada here to refund a premium of Rs21,053 — along with an annual interest of 9% since September 20, 2014 — and a Rs5,000 fine to a Daund resident for failing to renew his car insurance despite the latter having paid the renewal premium through the online NEFT transaction. The interest component payable so far works out to over Rs4,700. 
 
 The company argued that the consumer did not route the payment through the vehicle dealer by way of a demand draft, as was required under an agreement between the company and the vehicle dealer. 
 
 Shankar Raghunath Chavan, a resident of Kusegaon in Daund, had purchased an insurance policy from the company for his car on September 21, 2012. A year later, the policy was renewed for the period between September 21, 2013 and September 20, 2014. At the end of this term, he had received a reminder from the company for the renewal of his policy. 
 
 Through the netbanking facility, Chavan made a payment of the renewal premium, worth Rs21,053, for the term between September 21, 2014 and September 20, 2015. He then made repeated requests to the company for the issuance of the policy document. 
 
 However, in December 2014, when he approached the company, he was shocked to learn that his policy had “expired due to non-renewal”. The company did not renew his policy even after his repeated reminders. This prompted him to move the consumer court, seeking refund of the premium amount and appropriate costs towards physical and mental agony. 
 
 The bench observed in its order, “It is not denied by the insurance company that the complainant (Chavan) had paid the premium. It is the case of the insurance company that as per practice prevailing between the company and the dealer, the payment should be made by demand draft through the dealer so that the policy can be renewed conveniently. It is true that the dealer of the vehicle was not aware about the payment of premium made by the complainant. However, a tie-up between the dealer and the insurance company is not binding upon the consumer.” 
 
 “Documentary evidence which is produced by the complainant is sufficiently eloquent and speaks about inaction on the part of the insurance company. Even after sending documentary evidence as regards to payment of policy premium, the insurance company has failed to renew the policy. Definitely this act on the part of the company amounts to deficiency in service,” the bench ruled.
 
 
