Jassia (Rohtak): Members of All India Jat Arakshan Sangrash Samiti (AIJASS) started their dharna along with   on Sunday by performing a havan with the  .

 AIJASS president   who was invited to start the dharna remained absent to the disappointment of many present there.
 
 Addressing the crowd arrived from nearby villages in tractor-trollies, Ashok Balhara, general secretary of AIJASS warned the government of not trying to scare the community by deploying posse of  .
 
  
  
 
 
 “Yashpal Malik would arrive at the dharna on February 1 on Basant Panchmi day. That day, Jat protesters would celebrate birth anniversary of legendary peasant leader Ch. Chottu Ram”, Balhara added.
 
 Much to the amusement of visitors, they were offered desi ghee made halwa, poori, vegetable by the organising members.
 
 “We have arrangements to cater to five thousand protesters on a single day. Our daily budget is over Rs. 2 lakh per day and confectioners team have especially been called from different places to make the food ”, said Ram Chander in-charge of Samiti’s kitchen.
 
 He said that kitchen would run round the clock for the protesting community members. Many of the visitors who came to show solidarity offered donations to Samiti for organising dharna in the interest of society. Their names were called out from the stage on the loudspeaker.
 
 Meanwhile, SUVs with loudspeakers atop it were witnessed racing in village lanes encouraging youths to assemble at dharna site and prove their salt to the community.
 
 “Present government has betrayed the community repeatedly. They promise and then backtrack but this time, Jats would not retreat till they get their demand accepted”, said an elderly woman who had come with her grandson.
 
 Om Prakash, a retired government official said that community youths were deliberately put behind bars just because they belonged to a specific community.
 
 “We are being discriminated but we know how to snatch our rights if not given politely”, he claimed.
 
 To prevent any law and order situation, a posse of police force and para-military personnel including women battalion was deployed along with national highway. Superintendent of police Pankaj Nain said that dharna has been peaceful but if it gets out of control, force would be used.
 
