LUCKNOW: India’s ‘Green Girl’  , a final year engineering student is the youth representative in the ongoing   Framework Convention on Climate Change in Bonn, Germany. She will be part of the negotiations and discussions on climate change. Yugratna, 20, had earlier represented India’s youth in the Conference of Parties, COP21, the climate summit held in Paris in 2015. There, she was the only youth who got the opportunity to interview UN secretary-general  .

 The Paris agreement, which was adopted in December 2015, sought to accelerate and intensify the actions and investment needed for a sustainable low carbon future. The Bonn conference focuses on strategies to reach these ambitious goals, appropriate financial flows; an enhanced capacity building framework before 2025, which includes an initiative for capacity building,   told TOI from Germany. 
 
 Yugratna became the youngest person to address as many as 100 world leaders at the 2009 United Nation summit on climate change in New York. At COP21, she represented youth on global warming at a ceremony where 150 countries signed the Paris Agreement on climate change. 
 
 It was in 1992 when many countries joined an international treaty — the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change — as a framework for international cooperation to combat climate change by limiting average global temperature increase, and coping with impacts that were, by then, inevitable. By 1995, countries launched negotiations to strengthen the global response to climate change and two years later, adopted the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol legally binds developed country (Parties to the treaty) to emission reduction targets. There are now 197 parties to the convention and 192 parties to the Kyoto Protocol.
 
 The aim of the Paris agreement is to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. The agreement also aims to strengthen the ability of countries to deal with the impacts of climate change. The Bonn conference, therefore, is to take the decisions forward, Yugratna said.
 
