BHOPAL: A month after its start,   that offers sumptous meal just for Rs 5, has become a hit among students as well as locals. 

 Deendayal Rasoi was started by the state government in Bhopal on April 7. A month on, from students who are preparing for civil services to local daily wagers, the rasoi seemed to have attracted all. As such, the footfall has increased from an average 400 in the initial days to a good 1,100.
 
 “It is not just about a meal for Rs 5. The overall hygiene is what attracts us for having lunch here everyday,” said Neelam, a civil servant aspirant who lives in a PG nearby and a regular at the eatery.
 
 “We are staying in PGs and used to take tiffins. But the quality of food there was not good and hygiene too was a concern. We once tried the food here and since then, we come here regularly,” she added. 
 
 Another student, Deepika whose mother is admitted to the nearby Sultani hospital said, “It is better to eat here instead of eating in other unhygienic eateries near the hospital. As my mother is admitted to the hospital, I prefer having lunch here.” 
 
 It is not just students and youngsters who have become regular at the Rasoi. The beneficiaries include daily wagers as well as destitute people. “The aquantity is good. What else can you ask just for Rs 5. With such a down-to-earth rates, I come here for lunch daily since the inaugural day,” says Bhura, a daily wager who works with the BMC’s dog squad.
 
 On Saturday, the footfall at the Deendayal Rasoi situated opposite to Sultania Hospital, was close to 1,100 people. “Our average footfall now is between 800 and 1,100. It was only 400 for the first few days. And the number is still increasing,” said Anil Sharma, zonal officer of Bhopal Municipal Corporation. 
 
 The civic body has provided for the infrastructure, including space, building, electricity and water supply. Daily expenditures are maintained by an NGO, Ghanshyam Seva Samiti run by Lalchand Jain. 
 
 “We get Rs 5,000 to Rs 5,200 per day from the Rs 5 charge that is taken for the food and remaining amount of funds are managed by our organisation,” said manager of the volunteer organisation, Abhijeet Asthana told TOI. 
 
 The local representatives and officials are now trying to encourage people to donate to the Rasoi so that the quality could also be improved and the facility does not face any problem in case the number of visitors rises. 
 
 A local corporator who was celebrating his marriage anniversary on Saturday, made it a point to visit the Rasoi and donated a sum of Rs 1,000. “On our children’s birthday or any such occasion, we often throw a party. But making donations here will help serve the needy,” said local corporator, Manjushri Barakia. 
 
 
