HYDERABAD: Although the common entrance test for postgraduate courses is aimed at simplifying the admission process for students, colleges fear that the online test and admission process may lead to vacant seats in MA, MSc and MCom courses. Students, however, feel a common test will help streamline the process and make admissions a lot more easier.

 There are nearly 50,000 seats in PG colleges affiliated to different state universities. In the forthcoming academic year, Telangana   (TSCHE) has decided to hold a  .The decision has left college managements jittery as they claim that the council must take into consideration various factors before conducting the examination.
 
 “Authorities need to first consider variance in curriculum in each state university and make students aware of the academic reform before issuing the notification for the exam,“ said Ramana Reddy, president of Telangana Degree and PG Colleges Association. College managements fear that like undergraduate courses, where 1.83 lakh seats were left vacant last year due to sudden academic reforms, the same may happen for PG courses as well. “Already, there are very few students who are pursuing post-graduation. Nearly 40% of the seats are vacant for PG courses. The council must factor in all this before going ahead with the examination for students,“ said Dr G Nagaiah, secretary correspondent of Siddhartha PG College.
 
 The Telangana Degree and PG Colleges Association plans to submit a memorandum to the TSCHE with their views. “The government did not consider several factors before taking the decision to have online admission process for UG courses. For reforms into PG courses, the council should have consulted us as we are the ones who have to implement it,“ said Reddy, demanding mock examinations for students before conducting the final test in June.
 
 Students, however, welcome the move as they say a common test will make it easier for them to seek admissions. “It is a positive move as we will be able to choose colleges of our choice by appearing for just one examination,“ said Punem Srinu, who wants to pursue MSc Economics. Apart from the common entrance test, the council has decided to digitise the admission process.Cashless transactions for payment of admission fee will be promoted.
 
