PUNE:   of Cummins College of Engineering for Women, Rutuja Budukh and Sania Kulkarni, saved the life of Aniket Barwekar (21) who was knocked down by a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus near Karishma Society in Kothrud on Tuesday. 

 They took Barwekar to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital where he was operated upon immediately. Their quick action saved his life. 
 
 “We were on our way home after gymming and had halted at a traffic signal near Karishma Chowk when we heard a loud crash. I parked my scooter and went over to the accident spot. I saw a man lying unconscious and bleeding profusely. He was hit by a PMPML bus. People said the bus driver had jumped the signal and the crowd was busy yelling at him but no one bothered to help the victim,” Budukh, who lives in Karvenagar, said. The victim was not wearing a helmet and shivering as if he was having a seizure. 
 
 “We called for an ambulance but when we saw that the victim’s condition was worsening, we put him in an autorickshaw. The driver refused to take him to a hospital. No one stepped forward after he demanded that someone accompany him. So we decided to go with him,” Kulkarni said. She said there were at least 50 people who had gathered around the injured man.
 
 On their way, they saw the ambulance pass by and moved the victim to it and he was administered first aid. 
 
 “We had two of his cellphones but both were password secured and there was no emergency number displayed on the screens. So we put one SIM card in our phones. We dialled a few numbers saved on the card. We could contact his father and a friend,” Kulkarni added.
 
 The administrative staff of the hospital also contacted Barwekar’s father. “The family was extremely grateful to us, especially his parents. They must have thanked us a million times,” Kulkarni, a computer science student, said. She added the police were polite. “They too appreciated our act and did not ask for any information apart from the details of the accident,” Kulkarni added. Barwekar’s father could not be reached despite repeated attempts.
 
 Every hospital should take in emergency patients, Sanjay Patil, vice president IMA’s Pune chapter, said.
 
 The Alankar police have filed a case of rash and negligent driving against the PMPML bus driver. Inspector Kishore Mhaswade said people must help accident victims. “The first response should be to rush a victim to a hospital. The police cannot harass citizens who have helped a victim. Samaritans don’t have to reveal their identity to the police,” he added. 
 
 
