MUMBAI: Every morning, Fort resident   takes a brisk walk in the lanes of   with a bunch of   in hand before office-goers crowd the place. As he trudges down a tree-lined road opposite  , he bends a few wires and throws them by the edge of the road. In no time, a   circling above swoops down, picks the wires with their beaks and flies off. A little further, near  , Aher hurls some more metal wires. Another flock of the black birds flies down to pick up the metal strips. 

 Aher (42) has been doing this during the summers to help crows build their nests woven with straw and feather and fortified with the metal wire strips.
 
 Every year, soon after Gudi Padwa, Aher goes about this exercise daily until mid-June. “Most of these crows seem to know me,” says Aher, an insurance agent. “They wait early mornings and come flying down for their share of the nest-building material.” 
 
 Sujit Narwade, scientist at Bombay Natural History Society, told TOI, “Crows are known to be intelligent creatures and are said to have the ability to recognize human faces.”
 
 Aher claims to be supplying this nest-building material for the last 25 summers. “As a schoolboy, I often found crows trying to grab metal hangers from our house. My grandfather then told me that crows scout for such tough material to build their nests,” said Aher.
 
 Every morning, he chooses one route to drop the wires — down Bombay Gymkhana road, the tree-lined JJ School Of Art campus, Nariman Point, Marine Drive, Churchgate, Ballard Pier and around St George Hospital. Once he finishes throwing the metal strips, he retraces his steps along the same route to pick up wires left behind by the birds. “I don’t want anyone to be hurt or vehicle tyres to get damaged,” says Aher who spends at least Rs 15,000 a month despite getting the wires at a discount.
 
 Hardware store owner Ali Lokhandwala, who supplies the wires to Aher, says the wires are cut into thin slivers of equal size. “What Aher does is a form of humanitarian service. I am only contributing to it,” says Lokhandwala.
 
 Crows also fly into Aher’s house near the General Post Office. “They perch on the window sill and caw until I give some metal wires,” Aher says, adding, “Some even take the wire from my hand.”
 
 The dwindling number of trees worries him. “If we keep trimming and hacking them, where will crows build their nests?” says Aher. “Some day, crows too may become extinct.”
 
