PUNE: A special court here on Tuesday sentenced a 48-year-old man to life imprisonment for repeated sexual abuse of his two minor   over a period of two years. 

 The prison term will remain effective for the rest of his life, the court ruled. 
 
 The convicts’s wife had lodged an FIR with the Mundhwa police on June 26, 2014, stating that he was   their two daughters, aged 17 and 16 years, for almost two years when she would be away from home at work. While the woman was working as a domestic help, her husband was a telephone operator with a private firm.
 
 Special judge A G Bilolikar found the man guilty of offences punishable under Section 376 (2) (n) of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with repeated rape on same woman, and sections 4 (penetrative sexual assault) and 8 (sexual harassment) of Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act. Besides, he was held guilty of assault, criminal intimidation and causing intentional insult. 
 
 Public prosecutor Ramesh Ghorpade told TOI, “The life sentence has been given for the offences of rape and penetrative sexual assault, while the court has pronounced varied sentences for the other offences. These sentences will run concurrently with the main sentence of life imprisonment.”
 
 According to the complaint, the two minors continued to suffer as her husband would threaten them with behaving in a similar manner with the third daughter. It was only when his act became unbearable that the eldest daughter narrated the experience to her mother on June 24, 2014. 
 
 The Mundhwa police arrested the man soon after the complaint and senior inspector   investigated the case. 
 
 The man has been in Yerawada jail ever since his arrest. The accused had taken a defence that he was falsely implicated in a case owing to a property dispute with his wife and that their daughters took her side. 
 
 The court, however, relied on the evidence on record, including the deposition by the witnesses, medical reports and allied aspects. 
 
 The convict’s lawyer said an appeal will be filed against the special court’s ruling in the Bombay high court in the next 30 days.
 
