MYSURU: One more migratory bird was found dead in Mysuru zoo on Thursday, taking the toll to seven in 10 days. 

 At least six migratory birds were found dead in the space of three days in the last week of December due to avian influenza.
 
  Spot-billed pelican dead On Thursday afternoon, patrolling zookeepers noticed a spot-billed pelican lying dead in a pool. The staff informed zoo executive director   and veterinary officers. 
 
  Authorities said the carcass and droppings of the bird will be sent to the Institute of  , Bengaluru, to ascertain whether the death was caused by avian influenza. 
 
  The zoo authorities who had sent samples of the caged birds to the   and Animal Diseases in Bhopal, are now thinking of seeking a second opinion. 
 
  Mysore zoo has three ponds: One spread over two acres and two small. The migratory birds were found dead in the big pond which is covered by a canopy of lush green trees, officials said. 
 
    chairperson Mallige Veeresh told TOI: "While seven migratory birds died at a pool inside the zoo, we haven't found such incidents in Karanji Lake, Kukkarahalli Lake, Ranganatittu bird sanctuary or other waterbodies in the region. To know the cause of death of these migratory birds, we are planning to seek experts' opinion." 
 
  On their part, zoo authorities have intensified the spraying of disinfectants at the biological enclave to prevent spread of the virus to other animals housed there. Officials of the animal husbandry and veterinary sciences department have intensified surveillance in a 10-km radius around the zoo. 
 
  Department deputy director Dr PM   said: "We will start collecting samples of bird droppings from 12 poultry farms in the area. We'll send them to the Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals in Bengaluru." 
 
  Sample collection on: Murthy said the department routinely collects samples from poultries and houses all breeds of chicken in the district once a month and sends them to a Bengaluru lab. HD Kote has 10 poultry farms and Nanjangud 12. 
 
  The poultry owners have now been advised to report any unusual occurrence of bird deaths. 
 
