PUNE: As many as 97 of the 162 corporators will enter PMC for the first time, outnumbering their experienced seniors. 

 Though the first-timers are from all political parties, the   and RPI alliance has the highest number (71), followed by NCP’s 16 of the 38 elected. As many as five of the 10 Shiv Sena corporators are new, while one of the nine Congress corporators is a first-timer.
 
 Of the two Maharashtra   corporators one is a new face. MIM opened its account in PMC with one winner and two of the four independents will represent their areas in PMC for the first time.
 
 “Training the newly elected members in the functioning of the house is important. Corporators have to follow a certain code of conduct while working,” Mukta Tilak, a senior BJP corporator and former leader of BJP in PMC, said.
 
 Her party has organized a training session for the rookies. Officials of the legal, water, tax departments and other important sections of the civic administration will guide the new members.
 
 “Working in the civic body is a complex job. I have not worked in such a set-up. Guidance from senior party leaders and those who have worked in the corporation will be needed to function efficiently,”  , a newly elected member of NCP, said.
 
 Vishal Tambe, a three-time NCP corporator, said the mix of new and old corporators will help in the better management of the civic body. “The experience of old members and the enthusiasm of the new lot is a good combination. Our party had decided to provide candidature to new people with this purpose,” he said.
 
 According to political observers, many factors have led to a surge in fresh faces in PMC. It includes the reluctance of old corporators to contest again, change of parties by political workers, lack of experienced candidates for some parties and the breaking up of alliances.
 
 The four-ward panel system too added to the election of new faces. A majority preferred to vote for a party rather than candidates. 
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, 77 newcomers of the 128 elected will enter the new house.
 
 The BJP has 57 fresh faces, the largest group. Of the 36 NCP corporators, 10 are newcomers. The Shiv Sena’s tally was nine of which seven are fresh faces, the lone MNS corporator is a newcomer as are the two independents.
 
 Many of these 77 newcomers have defeated veteran sitting corporators. Four-term RPI corporator Chandrakanta Sonkamble contested on the BJP symbol from Kasarwadi-Dapodi but was defeated by newcomer Raju Bansode of NCP. 
 
 Six-term corporator and former mayor RS Kumar contested from   gaothan but was defeated by newcomer   of the Shiv Sena. Congress corporator Bhausaheb Bhoir, a three term corporator, joined the NCP and contested from Walhekarwadi-Bhoirnagar but was defeated by BJP’s Sachin Chinchwade.
 
 
