Task is unpleasant. Instant suo motu proceedings are unfortunate. This has never happened. This should never happen." These are a few sentences from the first paragraph of the  's judgment, delivered by the CJI and the six senior-most judges, explaining the reasons why it was forced to send Calcutta high court judge   to jail for committing gross contempt of court. 

 There were two concurring yet contrasting judgments. One by CJI  , with whom Justices Dipak Misra, Madan B Lokur, Pinaki C Ghose (since retired) and   concurred. The other judgment was co-authored by Justices   and Ranjan Gogoi.
 
 For the captain, punishing a member of his team, when that member holds a constitutional post, is a Pyrrhic task. CJI Khehar's judgment reflected the pain. But it did not deter him from going ahead with the painful surgery to remove a growth that was turning cancerous and clouding the lustre of the shining scales of justice.
 
  Coming from a Dalit family, Justice Karnan must have endured a lot of hardship and in the process suffered scars of ill-treatment. When a person goes through such trials and tribulations in life and he becomes an HC judge, it offers him a great opportunity and authority to reach out to the deprived classes with nuanced justice. He suffered from an acute persecution mentality. Suspicious of each and every action of his colleague judges, he saw attempts to undermine him because of his Dalit origin. Once a person becomes a victim of suspicion, he sees a ghost behind every action of every person. 
 
  Second, he forgot the basics tenet of law - howsoever high you are, the law is higher than you. He was convinced that an HC judge was immune from the process of law and that the only punishment for an HC judge was his removal through a cumbersome and near impossible process under Article 124(4) of the Constitution. Instead of focussing on justice delivery, Justice Karnan made it his prime duty to teach his colleagues a lesson by writing complaints incessantly to the President, the CJI, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and even to leaders of political parties which boasted of sizeable Dalit following. 
 
 The law catches up with a person and seeks answers when he/she is at his/her weakest. The law caught up with Justice Karnan just four months before his retirement. Instead of realising his faults, he became more audacious. Adopting a devil may care attitude, he threw the gauntlet at the seven-judge bench of the SC. The consequences he suffered were entirely of his own doing.
 
 But who will compensate for the ignominy faced by the judiciary as an institution because of the manner in which a judge defied the SC for nearly three months - from February till his conviction in May? And did the episode not dent public faith in judiciary's ability to select impeccable persons as judges of constitutional courts?
 
  Justices Chelameswar and Gogoi dealt with this issue. They raised two vital issues - need to revisit the process through which senior judges of the SC and HCs select persons for appointment as judges and second, a regime to keep sitting judges grounded. 
 
  Two paragraphs from their judgment summed up the gravity of the situation faced by the judiciary and, in turn, its authority in the public mind. "Conduct of Justice Karnan ever since his election to the bench has been controversial. Obviously, there is a failure to make an assessment of the personality of the condemner at the time of recommending his name for elevation. Our purpose is not to point fingers at individuals who were responsible for the recommendation but only to highlight the system's failure in not providing an appropriate procedure for making such an assessment," Justices Chelameswar and Gogoi said. 
 
 "There can be deviations in the conduct of the holders of constitutional courts which do not strictly call for impeachment (Constitution says removal) of the individual or such impeachment is not feasible. Surely, there must be other ways of dealing with such cases. The text of the Constitution is silent in this regard. Maybe, it is time for the nation to debate this issue," they added.
 
  Devising a mechanism to rein in constitutional court judges, while keeping intact the independence of judiciary, is a difficult task, especially through a national debate. The solution is squarely in the hands of the judiciary as it will have to devise ways to strengthen and make stringent the process of scrutiny of candidates before recommending names for appointment as judges. 
 
  Making merit, ability and knowledge the prime criteria for selection of a person for appointment as an HC judge could mitigate much of the problems faced by constitutional courts. At present, selection of a person as a judge, apart from merit, is largely based on seniority. Unfortunately, it also happens to give equitable representation to states and minority communities. The moment merit-based criteria for selection of judges gets mired in so many irrelevant considerations, the sanctity of temples of justice gets diluted. 
 
  The national debate, proposed by Justices Chelameswar and Gogoi, must focus more on making the process for judges' selection transparent, fair and merit-based. Products of such a process will have the inner strength not to deviate from their constitutional duty, unlike Justice Karnan. 
 
 
