NAGPUR: Even before other banks have begun charging a   fee, announced recently, a leading cooperative,   (NNSB), deducted a levy for handling banned currency it accepted as deposits after note ban. It was a special measure to deal with the crisis arising due to huge inflow of scrapped notes after demonetisation, says the bank. The charges have been withdrawn now. 

 TOI inquired at a couple of other cooperative banks of similar size where the officials said no such charges were deducted despite them facing the same crisis.
 
 Shiv Agrawal, one of the NNSB customers, approached TOI with the case He saw an unexplained debit of Rs300 each on two different deposits of Rs2 lakh made in current accounts on November 11. It was mentioned as cash handling charges. 
 
 As a miffed Agrawal went to the bank asking under what rule was the money deducted, the staff at NNSB’s   branch did not have a satisfactory explanation. Agrawal said there was no prior intimation by the bank about any such charges.
 
 An official in the bank’s top management said, this was done out of compulsion. Demonetization had led to a huge inflow of banned notes as deposits. Being a cooperative, NNSB does not have a currency chest of its own to store the cash. It’s linked to a chest belonging to a nationalized bank. 
 
 The bank charges a substantial amount for using its currency chest. In normal course, the expenses are recovered as the funds parked in the chest are quickly redeployed as loans or investment in securities bringing in income for the bank.
 
 However, after demonetisation, it led to a crisis situation. NNSB’s cash was piling up at the chest and the   was not lifting it. This led to mounting of the charges levied by the other bank whose currency chest was used. The outgo had to be recovered and finally it was decided to pass it on to the customers. The matter was put up in the board of directors which gave its approval. Deposits within Rs50,000 were spared. After things normalized the charge was withdrawn, said a top official. 
 
 “Services charges are out of RBI’s purview,” he said. On intimating the depositors, he said, “The notices were stuck in the branch offices.”
 
 Funds lying at the chest could not be deployed as it was not credited in the bank’s account with RBI. For this, it was needed to shift the funds from the chest to RBI. However, even RBI was running out of space at that time. Since the lifting was not happening due to a huge inflow of scrapped currency in all the banks, NNSB’s funds in old currency were nothing but dead cash. NNSB had deposits from other cooperatives too, he said. 
 
 However, the bank had to pay interest to the depositors on their amount. The cooperative had to pay the currency chest charges over and above it. 
 
 There was a 15-day period in between when banks were supposed to maintain a cash reserve ratio (CRR) up to 100% of the incremental deposits. Despite sitting on huge cash, it was of no use and the bank had to borrow funds to meet the CRR requirement with RBI, said the officer in the bank’s top management who preferred anonymity. 
 
 Agrawal said the bank’s staff simply failed to provide any document saying that they had oral orders from the higher ups. 
 
 
