Mumbai: Loans for   have registered a compounded annual growth rate ( ) of 23% over the last five years and are expected to grow over 25% in 2017 due to the special incentives announced by the government.

 One indication that financial inclusion is taking place in home loans is the shrinking loan size. The average size of the loan has dipped from Rs 4.8 lakh in 2009-10 to Rs 4.1 lakh, currently, according to an analysis by  .
 
 The total loan amount sanctioned in the affordable housing segment (loans below Rs 10 lakh) in 2016 rose to Rs 30,407 crore, which is around 7.64% of total home loans of Rs 3.97 lakh crore.
 
 This year the growth is expected to be even higher because of incentives announced by the finance minister, which translate into small loans becoming a couple of percentage points cheaper due to a government subsidy that will be in place until December 2017.
 
 According to  , the reason behind this growth is the increase in lending towards the bottom of the pyramid. The fact that loan size has been shrinking even as home prices have risen indicate a positive trend on improved access to finance for the grassroots and low income groups.
 
 “The golden lining is that there have been low delinquency rates on affordable housing loans over the last 5 years. The essence of these trends indicate a very promising growth potential for lending in this segment. Looking at the average ticket size, we can expect to witness more and more small banks and MFIs participating in affordable housing lending in the coming years,” said Harshala Chandorkar, chief operating officer, TU Cibil.
 
 This year sales of affordable home loans are set to take off due to Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme for Middle Income Groups — CLSS(MIG) announced by the finance minister. The scheme provides for an interest subsidy of 4% on home loans of up to Rs 9 lakh for those with an income of Rs 12 lakh per year, and of 3% on home loans of up to Rs 12 lakh for those having an income of Rs 18 lakh per year.
 
 According to an HDFC official, what makes the scheme different from other affordable schemes in the past is that it covers more people because of the annual income limit up to Rs 12 lakh. Also, the earlier definition of affordable housing had a ceiling on the size of the dwelling which excluded many medium-sized properties. To ensure that citizens take advantage of this scheme HDFC has held 600 on-site training for developers to increase awareness.
 
 
