NEW DELHI: The passenger service fee (PSF), which is a component of the airfare, may be raised in view of the higher cost of security and facilitation at all airports guarded by the   ( ). 

 A high-level meeting on airport security, attended by Union ministers of state for home and civil aviation Kiren Rijiju and   respectively and national security adviser Ajit Doval, earlier this week asked the ministry of civil aviation to find out ways and means to recover the cost of security arrangements at airports.
 
 The home ministry will work out the total annual cost of providing security at 143 functional airports across the country, a government functionary said. Based on this, an increase in the passenger service fee, particularly its security component that has remained unchanged at Rs 130 for the past 15 years, will be suggested. 
 
 The reports from the two ministries are expected to be submitted within two months, after which a decision will be taken on increasing PSF.
 
 A government functionary told TOI that since the cost of providing security to airports had gone up manifold, there was a valid case to raise PSF.
 
 Currently, there is no unanimity on who should pick the Rs 800-crore tab on deployment of CISF at airports across the country. While the civil aviation ministry argues that security being a sovereign function, the money should come from the Consolidated Fund of India, the finance ministry is keen to pass the burden on to the air travellers. 
 
 The home ministry disagrees with the finance ministry's suggestion, contending it would lead to hike in airfare.
 
  Out of the 98 functional airports in the country, 59 are protected by CISF. Among them, 26 airports, including those in New Delhi and Mumbai, are in the hyper-sensitive category. 
 
 Of these hyper-sensitive airports, 18 are under the CISF cover, while six like Srinagar and   are being guarded by the  , the state police or other paramilitary forces.
 
 The list of airports has gone up to 143 with the inclusion of 45 small airports after the launch of regional connectivity scheme, named 'Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik'(Udan).
 
 
