The board at the entrance of the famed   proclaimed that the famed tourist was welcome from 8 am to 8 pm. It was already 10 am but the gates of the museum were firmly padlocked with absolutely no signs of readiness to welcome visitors inside its well advertised premises!

 As a local Telugu, I felt rather apologetic to see two families of tourists from Bengal waiting haplessly for the museum to open, with no official in sight in the near vicinity. These enthusiastic visitors would probably have meticulously planned each moment of their holiday; given the fact that sanctioned leave from office, train reservations and hotel reservations are not easily available during the holiday season. Therefore, every minute of an unwarranted delay for a tourist (and that too at a much-hyped tourist spot!) leaves bad memories of a holiday gone sour. Handicapped by a lack of knowledge of the local language, the milder ones grin hopelessly and bear it. The short tempered ones can at best stomp their feet in despair!
 
 Could I be blamed for taking my self-appointed role as an ambassador for Andhra Pradesh Tourism a bit too seriously buoyed by Incredible India’s slogan “Atithi Devo Bhavah” (The guest is a God)? I unleashed my wrath at a museum official who appeared to be sauntering in from a distance. I pointed out as to how their callous disregard for punctuality had caused anguish to tourists coming to Araku with high hopes and expectations for a memorable holiday. Worse still, it dents the image of the hospitality of the local Telugu community, deterring prospective tourists from visiting our state. The ticket counter official tried to mollify me with a “Please bear with us; we are opening shortly in a few minutes.” assurance! This, coming two hours after the scheduled opening time, could not have been very reassuring for people like me, who were preparing for the return journey to Vizag. We were now ‘shelterless’, having vacated our rooms at the outer limit for the check out time. For some peculiar reason, the previous evening, the   (which is just opposite the  ) was closed at 6 pm. It therefore prevented us from managing our time more efficiently by combining two visits in one drive.
 
 What really got my goat was the nonchalance of a transporter associated with the Coffee Museum. On my questioning, as to whom I should speak to redress the problems of a tourist, his cut and dried answer was “This is not a government undertaking to keep a complaint book. This is a privately-owned museum. We do not have a system of complaint book!”
 
 Welcome to the breed of the new brash private operators in the field of tourism in Araku!! Could we residents of AP, as hosts, get more insouciant to the needs of our guests from far and wide? It is all the more tragic considering the fact that Araku is the only place that can qualify as a ‘hill station’ offering a tourism fare different from the temple centric tourism of Andhra Pradesh. (I would not like to exaggerate the beach tourism potential of AP considering that the rough seas and receding shorelines in our state have their own limitations for offering bathing friendly spots). 
 
 My experience at Coffee Museum became all the more difficult to digest as it was preceded by me being let down by the service standards of the government-owned Araku Valley Hotel of Haritha Resorts (run by AP Tourism). I had deliberately chosen a non-AC room to satisfy for myself whether a budget traveller found any place in the priority list of  . On being ushered into the room with a defective main tubelight, I was assured by the bell boy that he would be back in 15 minutes. He was not to be seen for the rest of the night. I had to be content with the night light serving as the sole illumination during my entire stay. My relatives, who had checked into the best rooms (the AC Suites) too did not get their money’s worth of service. They had a restive night getting bitten by bed bugs and mosquitoes.
 
 A tourist’s memory has to be deliberately short and he/ she should selectively retain only the good memories. We had come to Araku not to get cooped within the four walls but to enjoy the camp fire on a cool December night of AP’s only hill station worth the name. As local people my family could afford to be tolerant of the lapses in service of our own people. But could I expect the same magnanimity from a group of non-Telugu tourists, whose loud complaints early in the morning was enough to wake up everyone in the block?
 
 In our downhill journey, my mind was assailed by a number of conflicting thoughts. In future, if I were to have a non-local resident guest at my home in Vizag, should I bring him all the way to Araku as a self-appointed ambassador of AP Tourism? Or, should I behave like a Pan-Indian professional diverting him to more tourist friendly places outside Andhra Pradesh where he would get his money’s worth of satisfaction? In all fairness, let me first record the improvements that are now visible at Araku after I voiced my criticisms in my article “Looking Beyond Glossy Tourist Brochures” (Waltair Musings dated February 1, 2015).
 
 i) The lighting in Borra Caves is now multi coloured lending a cheerful look as compared to the staid mono coloured lighting earlier.
 
 ii) The campus of the Tribal Museum has expanded and offers a more diversified fare. The larger area allows families to have a leisurely stroll and have a shop for both tribal and non-tribal artefacts.
 
 iii) The Coffee Museum has added many new features and offers a very interesting and educative audio visual history of the production of coffee all over the world. There are now many options of savouring various types of coffee and coffee products besides buying souvenirs related to coffee.
 
 I must confess that I would have lost out on a very pleasurable experience at Araku, had I left the Coffee Museum in a huff when it did not open on time. My patience and doggedness in getting it opened for the sake of other tourists did pay rich dividends. But would everyone do it? I did it because during my travels, I have savoured the hospitality and efficiency of several people, known and unknown, belonging to various cultural backgrounds in India and abroad. I feel that it is my duty to reciprocate that hospitality when I am at home and I thank whenever I get that opportunity.
 
 But it requires that each one of us owns up our local tourist spot with a sense of belongingness. Only then, can we work at a high energy level and with a missionary zeal to ensure the following in the following crucial building blocks for the success of any tourism venture (the 4 C's in short):
 
 i) Courtesy, punctuality and promptness in service of any kind.
 
 ii) Customer sensitivity and sincerity in our efforts to redress a tourist’s complaint/ genuine demand
 
 iii) Cleanliness of the surroundings of our tourist spots; & above all
 
 iv) Conscientious and honest effort by us locals to ensure that a tourist leaves our hometown with pleasant memories. 
 
 For the above to happen, each local resident has to walk that extra mile to fulfil the true spirit of our traditional hospitality “Atithi Devo Bhavah!”
 
 (The writer is a retired   official now involved with rural education. He can be reached at himakartata@gmail.com)
 
 
