AYODHYA, FAIZABAD: One of the very few Khatri traders in the local market here, Vardhaman is careful of what he speaks about the Ram Mandir, but he is vocal about one thing:   gets attention only on paper and it is the only tourist place with no tourist spot. “Yahan koi videshi nahi aata (no foreign tourist comes here). It is only natural that Ayodhya feels envious of Mathura,” Khatri says.
 
  The exasperated trader points out that unlike Mathura that has several temples apart from a ‘jail transformed into a Janmasthaan of aastha (faith) and prathista (devotion)’ Ayodhya has none, and survives on the three melas (fairs) that are held every year wherein devotees trickle into the town from all over the country.
  
  “Ayodhya is the only town where every shop will sell everything— from handkerchief to photos of gods to sarees. That is how meagre the earning is and we don’t want to lose any customer. The economy of this place isn’t growing despite it being such a political attraction. Both state and Centre keep sending money to this place, wonder where it goes?” Khatri laments.
  
  Traders in the market point out that a majority of Hindus will vote for the   this time. “Ram mandir Ayodhya ki naak hai. (Temple is an issue of prestige). It has to be built. The town will grow. Khuli naaliyon ka bhi kuch kar de toh accha rahega (they must do something about the open drains too),” said  , a government employee here.
  
  Ayodhya in Faizabad is politically crucial for the BJP as well as the RSS and they believe the area is the birth place of lord Rama. Building a Ram temple there has been a matter of faith for the party. The BJP held this seat for almost two decades till 2012, when it lost to Samajwadi Party’s Pawan Pandey.
  
  In Faizabad, of the five Vidhan Sabha seats, the SP rules in four (Ayodhya, Bikapur, Milkipur and Gosainganj) and BJP won only Rudauli. Barring Rudauli, from where sitting BJP MLA Ramchandra Yadav is contesting, all the other candidates joined the party only a few months ago.
  
  BJP has fielded Ved Prakash Gupta, a veteran of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, who had joined the Samajwadi Party and then shifted to the  . He had returned to the BJP only last year.
  
  There is resentment in the party ranks over an outsider being awarded the ticket but he is popular among the locals. “He has a car agency. He is a trader who understands business and politics,” said Praveen Gupta, a trader. Jayashankar Dubey disagrees. “Ramnagri ko jitne ke liye bhi Bajpa ko Sapai ki zaroorat padh rahi hai. They should have selected Gupta’s brother who has built AC toilets in the market. He is more popular.”
  
  At Bikapur in Faizabad, the party has given ticket to Shobha Singh, wife of former RLD minister Munna Singh. Here, caste could play a big role as summed up by Ashok Mishra: “People haven’t forgotten how Munna Singh had defeated a brahmin in the block election. Some traditional BJP voters were hurt by that.”
  
  In the temple town here, there is palpable anger against SP minister and candidate Pawan Pandey, who wrested the seat from BJP in 2012. “He became a minister not once, but twice in Akhilesh cabinet only because he defeated the BJP. Unki toh puri lanka sone ki thi, par unhone use jaladi (everything was going good for him but he ruined everything),” said Rudraman Singh, a resident, on how Pandey could have done more for the town and the party. Traders in the market, however, feel Pandey is still not out of the game as it is a “trikoni (triangular) fight”. Pandey was accused of thrashing Ashu Malik in CM Akhilesh’s house after the stage drama during the 25th anniversary of the Samajwadi Party. He was expelled by the then UP SP chief   from party. Apart from his, SP has given ticket to mafia don Abhay Singh from Gosaiganj and Anand Sen from Bikapur. Both have a good chance of winning, say locals, considering the clout.
  
  Muslims of Faizabad seem to be veering towards the BSP that has fielded 31-year old Bazmee Siddiqui.
  
  This is for the first time a Muslim is contesting from a main party. “SP ne sirf naam diya hai, kaam toh kuch kiya nahi hai (they say they do work for us but they haven’t). Graveyards in many villages are without boundary even after five years, “ said Subair Mohammed, a shop owner.
  The BSP has fielded 31-year old Bazmee Siddiqui to take on BJP candidate Ved Gupta and Pandey. This is for the first time after independence a muslim is contesting from a main party. "SP ne sirf naam diya hai, kaam toh kuch kiya nahi hai (they say they do work for us but they haven't).
  
  Graveyards in many villages are boundary-less even after five years, " said Subair Mohammed, a shop owner in Ayodhya, who added that he wanted a sarkar where there was "sunwai and suraksha" (redress and safety). "Bazmeesaab has been funding a lot of hindu and muslim events.
  
  Zameeni nahi hai par par paiso ki takat hai, aur candidate acche hai (He is not a mass leader but has the power of money)," said Ashraf Mohammed, a lawyer in Ayodhya, adding, "Around 55,000- 60,000 Muslims live peacefully in Lord Ram's birthplace. Security matters for us and Behenji can give us that." 
