ALWAR/JAIPUR: The   of Alwar and other areas in the Mewat region are panic struck after the death of 50-year-old Pehlu Khan who was thrashed to death by   vigilantes. Having spent more than five decades as milkman keeping cows, they are jittery with the changed atmosphere in the country.

  Forty five year old Deen Mohammed Meo family is been selling milk for the last 45 years at Mannaka village in Alwar district. “I got three cows and all of them are giving ample milk. We run a small dairy in which people of every caste, creed and religion drink cow’s milk which is good for health. Majority of our customers are Hindus. But the way in which Muslims have been projected as cow haters or killers is not justified. After the death of Pehlu Khan sometimes we feel that someday by some rumour may be spread about us too and we may not get killed,” said Mohammad while talking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 Other Meos in the village said that keeping a cow is not a birth right of the Hindu community. “Things are politicised and moulded in a manner as if it is the birth right of Hindus to keep a cow. Our ancestors have been keeping 12 to 15 cows. But with inflation and shrinking grazing areas the number of cows kept for milking has come down. We urge the people and society at large to have a sense of trust irrespective of caste, creed and religion,” said Mohammed.
 
 At Mannaka village 90 percent of the Meo Muslim compulsorily have a cow. “If such shameful incidents continue, we would be jittery and fearful while keeping a cow. I think it becomes a responsibility of the government to help develop a sense of trust among people,” Faqir Ahammad of the same village.
 
 Fifty five year old Hanif Khan of Laxmangarh said that his family is dependent on what they earn by selling milk. “Ab Aiso mahaul Kar Diyo hai ki Gai Rakh hi naa sakan(The scenario is made such that we can’t keep a cow),” said Hanif.
 
 Meanwhile, Rastriya Muslim Mahasabha have demanded a CBI probe into the death of Pehlhu Khan. The office bearer of the muslim body has submitted a memorandum to the governor of Rajasthan,  , former chief minister  , Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria and Director General of police Manoj Bhatt.
 
 It may be recalled that Pehlu Khan was among 14 others who were thrashed badly by people who claimed to be “Gau Rakshak” on April, 2. Khan later succumbed to the injuries on April, 4.
 
