ITANAGAR: Police on Thursday found three bodies at the spot where an IAF chopper crashed on Tuesday during flood rescue sorties, while a search operation for another is on, a top police official said. 

 Police had initially said there were three crew members on the ALH chopper. It was later confirmed that an IRBn jawan was also on the helicopter, assisting the crew in flood rescue sorties at Sagalee and Dambuk. "Police found the bodies of two crew members and the IRBn jawan. Search is on for the other crew member," DGP Sandeep Goel said.
 
 The three crew members include wing commander MS Dhillon, who was the pilot of the helicopter and the commanding officer of the unit, flight lieutenant PK Singh and flight engineer Sergeant Gujjar. The IRBn person was identified as Nada Umbing from Hija village at Ziro in the Lower Subansiri district. A search team comprising state police, NDRF, Army and IAF personnel, a medical team and locals went to the spot at the break of dawn on Thursday, the DGP said.
 
 Papum Pare SP Tumme Amo, who was leading the team on Wednesday, said a team of 14 police personnel along with a few local guides halted at the spot for the night and were joined by a big team on Thursday. The bodies could not be retrieved on Wednesday after it turned dark, he added. An   police team had spotted the debris and the bodies of two of the crew members' on Wednesday.
 
 The helicopter had taken off on Tuesday from the Pilputu helipad near Sagalee, also in Papum Pare district, around 30 km from Itanagar. It lost contact with ground staff within minutes of takeoff at 3.48pm. Arunachal and parts of the northeast have been witnessing heavy rainfall in the past few weeks.
 
 Arunachal is known for its unpredictable weather. There have been a series of aircraft crashes over the past few years.
 
 This was the second aircraft crash in the state in 40 days. In the last week of May, a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet, with two pilots on board, crashed along the Assam-Arunachal border.
 
 In 2015, a   helicopter with three persons on board including Tirap deputy commissioner  , crashed in a dense jungle. Joshi was killed in the crash.
 
 In 2011, then Arunachal Pradesh chief minister   and four others died after their Pawan Hans chopper crashed at a remote location in the state. A few days before, another helicopter crashed while landing in Tawang, killing 16 people.
 
 
