The city is set to get its second cablestayed bridge after the  .

 The  's plan for a bridge connecting Bhayandar and   (West) received sanction from the   ( ) last week.
 
 The MMRDA has estimated that the project will cost Rs 875 crore, and work on it will begin in October, and is expected to take four years.
 
 Currently, the bridge over   -connecting Mumbai and the satellite town of Vasai-Virar -is the only link.
 
 “At present, there is just one bridge over Thane creek at Versova, near Bhayandar, and this posed problems. The MMRDA's bridge will benefit people travelling from the western parts of Bhayandar to Naigaon and Vasai-Virar, and will also provide an alternative to the existing bridge,“ said the MMRDA's superintending engineer, Mahadev Narkar.
 
 “Vasai and Virar are developing very fast and there is only one bridge.This will bridge will help connect faster with the mainland,“ said MMRDA commissioner UPS Madan.
 
 On the Bhayandar side, the bridge will connect with Subhash Chandra Chowk, and on the Naigaon side, due to the height of the bridge alignment, it will lead on to Contino Road.
 
 The bridge will have six lanes ­ three on either side -and two cablestayed spans of 100 m each, with singly pylon. The rest of the structure, with 50-m spans, will have cantilevered box girders. “It will save approximately 10 to 15 km to travel from Bhayandar West to Vasai-Virar,“ Narkar said.
 
 Nearly 49,432 sq m of land is CRZ-I and saltpan land. But the MCZMA has allowed the land to be used to build the bridge.
 
 The MMRDA project will affect 29,304 sq m of mangroves and a 23,680-sq m mangrove-buffer zone.
 
 The MMRDA has also begun talks with the salt commissioner for the plot, and has been told to plant five mangrove trees for every single one destroyed in the construction phase.
 
 They have been told that the natu ral course of the creek water must not be disturbed. The MMRDA has also been instructed not to store construction material or machinery in the CRZ area, and not to build camps for labourers close to the mangroves. The agency has also been told not to disturb fishermen in the area.
 
 “At present, if we have to travel to Naigaon or even Bhayandar, we have to travel via Sativali. This bridge will offer us direct connectivity and save time,“ said Vasai-Virar Municipal Commissioner Satish Lokhande.
 
