KOLKATA: The Alipore court on Wednesday granted actor   Chatterjee bail even as police strongly opposed the move. 

 The court, however, imposed stiff bail conditions, asking him to provide two bail sureties of Rs 25,000 each, to surrender his passport and he has been barred from leaving Kolkata without the explicit permission of the Tollygunge police station officer-in-charge. 
 
 The court also directed him to appear in court every day his case is heard.
 
 Vikram is likely to step out of Presidency correctional home — where he is now lodged — as soon as his bail orders are formally handed over to the prison authorities.
 
 Opening the argument on behalf of the defence,   harped on the two important points that had attracted the IPC Section 304 — knowledge of the act and the allegation that Vikram was drunk at the time of the accident on April 29 around 3.30am.
 
 “It is strange that the prosecution is trying to build a case on the fact that Vikram was drunk that night. As per Supreme Court’s orders, drunkenness cannot be proved unless urine and blood tests are carried out. Mere condition of pupils is not enough to prove that a person is under influence of alcohol. Incidentally, neither the case diary nor the statements of doctors who treated Vikram suggest they even suspected so. The seizure list shows a vial of blood was drawn from him and yet, there is no report of the same in the chargesheet,” said Guha Thakurtha.
 
 Aware that there were several witnesses who reportedly saw Vikram consume alcohol in at least two bars, Guha Thakurtha stressed on the “knowledge” part of the crime. 
 
 “The witnesses cited here are mostly common friends of Vikram and Sonika who were with the two even two hours prior to the accident. For a moment, even if it is presumed that Vikram was drunk, the fact remains they had as much knowledge as the actor about the possible after-effects of his actions. Yet, none of them stopped either of them when Sonika willingly agreed to accompany Vikram,” he said.
 
 Some of these friends were earlier called up by the actor and they together drove to the nightclubs. “And yet today, by some strange fate and circumstances, these same people with same set of knowledge are police witnesses while Vikram Chatterjee is an accused,” said Guha Thakurtha.
 
 The defence lawyer went on to claim that though the FSL and crash data details show the high speed of the car just seconds before the accident, the only knowledge Vikram had was that he was driving a costly car that can protect him and his co-passenger in case of an emergency situation. “But in this case, the airbags did not open,” argued the lawyer.
 
 Guha Thakurtha also questioned the prosecution claims that Vikram was influential and that he was eluding investigators and might threaten witnesses in the case.
 
 “Between May 10, when Vikram was last questioned for more than four hours, and July 6 when he was eventually arrested, 42 witnesses recorded their statements, seven of them before a magistrate. Police cannot cite one example where anyone was threatened. Neither can police cite one legal notice (CrPC 41C) that Vikram flouted after the IPC sections were amended to slap culpable homicide against him on May 30,”challenged his lawyers.
 
 Public prosecutor   stated Vikram’s arrest was a necessity given he was “planning to flee the country” and was “eluding the investigators”. He had even passed his father’s mobile number instead of his own to cops, claimed sources. 
 
 Mukherjee said witnesses came out on their own to talk about how he consumed alcohol at the Phoenix and Underground nightclubs. “Based on his questioning, we have secured two new CCVTV footages which will prove Vikram indeed consumed alcohol. In fact, we are planning a supplementary chargesheet in this matter,” he said.
 
 “After May 30, when he began to elude us, it seemed only custodial interrogation was the way out. The witness accounts proved he acted irresponsibly, and, as a man of the acting world, felt he was on an aeroplane while driving. An alcohol bottle was recovered from him, that shows he consumed alcohol in the car, a fact he hid during his initial questioning. The state would thus firmly oppose his bail,” said Mukherjee. 
 
 Police had also pleaded they wanted Vikram's custody till the trial is completed since he could “intimidate witnesses”. 
 
 The bail order was passed around 3.45pm, almost two hours after judge Suranjan Kundu heard the bail petition arguments. The judge said he needed to go through the evidence and the submissions before arriving at a conclusion.
 
