NEW DELHI: In a rare action, income tax has restrained defence dealer   from disposing of properties abroad, including London and Dubai, and served him a provisional attachment order on Monday. 

 This action is in addition to attachment proceedings the department has initiated against half-a-dozen other assets belonging to Bhandari and his associates in Delhi and Gurgaon. The politically connected dealer has been facing the heat from official agencies since his name surfaced in the context of UPA era defence deals. 
 
 A senior I-T official told TOI that the department has also attached 12 bank accounts and lockers in India operated by six companies associated with Bhandari and a few accounts operated by him and his wife. The properties identified in Delhi-NCR are his residence in GK-1 and other premises in Panchsheel Enclave, Shahpur Jat, Vasant Vihar and Gurgaon.
 
 Bhandari's lawyer was intercepted last week at the Delhi international airport on his return from Dubai, the officer said. Information recovered from him helped the I-T investigation to initiate attachment proceedings to restrain the defence dealer from selling off his foreign assets.
 
 Last year in April, I-T searches were conducted on the premises of Bhandari where officials had seized documents of his assets in India and abroad besides some sensitive classified papers related to defence deals. The I-T had later involved the   to probe his foreign remittances.
 
 The I-T department had also recovered a chain of e-mails from Bhandari, some of which were exchanges between one of his associates n London and secretary of  , son-in-law of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The e-mails hinted at refurbishing of a house in London but Vadra and his lawyers had denied any such connection with Bhandari.
 
 Based on the classified defence papers recovered from Bhandari, the Delhi police crime branch had booked him under the Official Secrets Act and a request has also been made for a red corner notice against him and his associates in the case. Bhandari is believed to have left the country and is currently in London.
 
 Further investigating the London property and its actual beneficiary, the I-T investigation had unearthed Bhandari's interests in Dubai and some of the assets he had purchased there. I-T had traced a shell company registered in UAE which owned several foreign assets, including the properties in London. The I-T official said that a provisional attachment order on the London and Dubai properties have been served to Bhandari and his lawyer so that they are not able to sell them off till the investigation is over.
 
 Bhandari had managed to flee the country recently just after the Delhi police booked him under the OSA.
 
 
