Meerut: Vedpal Rathi has a small plot of land in Muzaffarnagar, on which he grows sugarcane during the rabi season. However, the long-standing problem of delays in payments from sugar mills continued to plague him this season too, despite repeated assurances of the central and state governments.   “They (sugar mill) gave me sugar instead of cash as payment,” a distraught Rathi said. The sugar mill owes him Rs 1 lakh. He in turn owes creditors in the village around Rs 3.5 lakh – as loans which he had taken for his daughter’s weding, loans for fertilisers, pesticides and crops. The situation is similar to many farmers who have committed suicide in the past.    Farmers growing wheat, potato and paddy in the region have been suffering similarly, or worse. “Modi promised that he would increase farmers’ income one-and-half times when he came to power in 2014. But income has not even increased in proportion to inflation. Now, he has shifted the goal post to say that farmers’ incomes will double by 2022. Nothing of the sort will happen. There is no policy on the ground. Farmers are suffering and are only a means for the BJP to get votes. Nothing else,” said Raj Kumar Sangwan, organising secretary of the Rashtriya Lok Dal.    The lack of increase in minimum support price (MSP) of crops has also irked farmers. “The MSP has not gone up to the level promised. The MSP of wheat has only increased about 10-12 per cent, and that of paddy about 8 per cent. The case with sugarcane is also bad. The central government announced a fair and remunerative price (FRP) which was Rs 230 per quintal for the past two seasons. That was much lower than the state advised price (SAP) which was Rs 280 per quintal. The price announced by the Centre would not even cover the cost of growing sugarcane,” said Pushpendra Singh, president of the Kisan Shakti Singh.    The MSP of wheat in the 2014-15 season was Rs 1,400 per quintal, and increased to Rs 1,525 per quintal for 2016-17.    “The figures are in front of you. Nothing has happened. The farmer has only become a tool to get votes, that is all. When someone comes to power, their only concern seems to be to get elected against next time. They will not work for the farmers, or anyone else, for that matter,” said Rakesh Tikait, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.    Rathi, meanwhile, is hopeful that things will improve. But his hopes are set on the monsoon, not on the government. “I hope there is good rain. That could really help me out and give me a good crop this season. Otherwise, I will be ruined. And no, I do not have any expectations from the government. The BJP has cheated us, like all other parties in the past,” he said.