Last week, students and teachers of   were divided over the inclusion of  's 'Five Point Someone' in DU's syllabus. However, that is not the only new addition. The new batch of students will also be studying cinematic adaptations of books, like 'Omkara', 'Maqbool', 'Bride And Prejudice', 'Haider', 'Angoor' and many more as per the modified syllabus. 

  Under the Credit Based Choice System (CBCS), two papers on cinema have been added – Literature and Cinema for BA(Hons) English students, and Cinematic Adaptations of Literary Texts for the Generic Elective course. While students were earlier recommended to watch some of the screen adaptations to get a better understanding of the text, this is the first time when movies will be a part of the course. While most teachers are quite happy with the films that have been introduced in the syllabus, some feel that the paper for English (Hons) students could have had more options.
 
  
 
 Gorvika Rao, assistant professor, English Department, Miranda House, says that since this is the first time that these papers are being offered, it is important to start with the screening of these movies. "We plan to screen the movies first, and then discuss the plot and complexity of the characters. The purpose of these papers is to teach students how a text is modified for the screen. When a text is adapted for a film, we contextualize it. For example, when adapting  , you cannot set the plot in the 16th century. It has to be changed according to the current political, social and economic background. When we discuss a movie, we also discuss the difference between a text and the movie. In that context, Vishal Bhardwaj is able to use the politics of his own time in his movies ('Haider', 'Maqbool', 'Omkara', etc). As far as Chetan Bhagat is concerned, it is very easy to adapt his books. Bhardwaj is looking at complex characters. He does not make the hero a god-like figure who cannot do anything wrong. They are complex, and are often grey characters."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Kuljeet Singh, assistant professor, English Department, SGTB Khalsa College, says, "The audience gets Vishal Bhardwaj's movies, irrespective of whether they have read the original plays by Shakespeare. With these papers, students will understand the difference between an adaptation and a translation. In an adaptation, along with the translation, the cultural/political background of the text is also changed according to the surroundings. I think only Bhardwaj and Gulzar have been able to adapt Shakespeare, and that is really commendable. The other movies in the course will give students a different perspective apart from academic knowledge."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Amrita Ajay, assistant professor, English Department, Maitreyi College, adds, "The colleges can pick these subjects according to their preference. These are not compulsory papers. Students can choose from a wide variety. In these papers, students will be taught how characters are designed, and how the plot and scenes are modified for the screen. The paper will teach students how filmmakers use the original texts. In Indian cinema, the only exposure that we have of Shakespeare is through Vishal Bhardwaj, and I think the inclusion of 'Angoor' as well as 'Omkara' or 'Haider' works well. It shows how two Indian directors – Vishal Bhardwaj and Gulzar – can use Shakespeare in different ways, using their ideas in their own setting."
 
 
 
 Ahmer Nadeem Anwer, associate professor, Sri Venkateswara College, says, "The paper, Cinematic Adaptations of Literary Texts, has many options. It has adaptations like Pride And Prejudice and To Kill A Mocking Bird, as well as Vishal Bhardwaj movies. These options will give a new perspective to the students who are doing specialization in other courses. The Literature and Cinema paper, which is for English (Hons) students, has limitations. It could have had more movie options. But I think the papers can encourage students to take up film studies or other subjects that can get them into the field of cinema in the future. Bhardwaj studied English (Hons) from Hindu College, and I think that might have influenced him to adapt so many Shakespearean texts."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Earlier, students of English (Hons) were recommended to watch these adaptations by their teachers, and they tell us that the movies also help them to revise the syllabus at the end of the course. Devika Gupta, a third-year student at Miranda House, says, "There are students who do not want to read the whole text, so when they watch the film adaptation, they understand what the text is about. But the movie adaptation has a different social and political context. They can help you revise the course at the end of the session. If you watch the movie at the end, then you are able to recall some of the instances from the original text that you may have forgotten."
 
  Anitta Jose, a third-year student at Jesus and Mary College, adds, "Not everyone can understand Shakespearean English, but they can understand the plays by watching a movie adaptation. All these things supplement the teaching of the text."
 
  
  
 
 
 
