BADAUN: If   was the rallying point in the first phase of UP polls, Badaun is set to be the center stage for the second phase. Two main issues dominating the poll narrative in Badaun, whose six assembly seats go to poll on February 15, are the alleged gangrape and murder of two teenage girls here in 2014 and the recent disappearance of JNU student Najeeb Ahmed who belongs to the district. While Prime Minister   and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati have already addressed public meetings in Badaun attacking the ruling Samajwadi Party (SP) government on the state's law and order situation, chief minister   will address five public meetings here on Monday.
 
  The shocking crime had earned Akhilesh Yadav all-round flak, including international opprobrium. The United Nations had condemned the “brutal” crime, calling for immediate action against the perpetrators and to address violence against women and girls across India. The SP leaders have long claimed that the opposition has maligned the image of Badaun in particular and the state of UP in general by highlighting the alleged rape and murder case for political gains in 2014 and were still trying to rake up the issue when the CBI, which is pursuing the case, has found that the incident was that of suicide. In fact, the CM, who was in Bareilly on Saturday, said the infamous case “which later turned out to be fake” could not be the parameter to judge the law and order situation in the state. "We have introduced the best police practices in the state including Dial 100 and will continue doing that once we are re-elected," he said.
  
  The area is considered a SP bastion due to Yadav-Muslim domination. Even in the 2014 general elections when   and allies won 73 out of UP’s 80 seats, CM Akhilesh Yadav’s cousin Dharmendra Yadav won the Badaun   seat. In the 2012 assembly polls, SP had won four seats here while BSP got two. The BJP is trying hard to make a comeback in the district.
  
  Another incident which is finding frequent mention in the political debate in the district is the disappearance of 27-year-old JNU student Najeeb Ahmed, a native of Badaun who has not been traced ever since he was allegedly assaulted by ABVP activists on the campus on October 15 last year. After local cops lodged a case against Najeeb’s mother and brother who along with 150 others took out a protest march in the city on February 8, many local residents blame the state government for not doing enough to find him.
  
  Sitting BSP MLA from Dataganj seat, Sinod Shakya, said, “We have been highlighting in our campaign that two families of Badaun – of two sisters of Katra Sadatganj village and Najeeb Ahmed -- have not got justice. If the SP government was serious about Najeeb, they could have pressured the Centre or set up an SIT probe to find him.”
  
  Mahesh Gupta, BJP candidate from Badaun Sadar constituency, said, “Criminals are sheltered here by SP netas who openly threaten to transfer cops who go after them. We are confident of getting even Yadav votes this time due to poor law and order here.” 
  
  Asaduddin Owaisi, who was in Badaun recently, appealed to the Muslims “to remember Najeeb and how SP government didn’t help his family before casting their votes.” He also claimed that there has been a 200% rise in rape cases in UP.
  
  Erratic power supply and absence of link roads in rural areas are the other main poll issues here. Fatima Raza, chairperson of Badaun municipality and wife of local SP MLA Abid Raza, however, said that the law and order scene here had improved in the past few years. “After the SP government came to power, it controlled criminal activities here. Girls feel safe here after we installed CCTV cameras in schools and colleges,” she said.
