BEIJING: Foreign secretary  , in Beijing for bilateral talks, has countered China’s demand for “solid evidence” against Pakistan-based terrorist  , saying the “burden of proof” was not on India as the   chief’s actions were well documented.

 During a seven-hour dialogue with Chinese officials on Wednesday, he said India had overwhelming support from the international community for Azhar to be sanctioned by the UN Security Council’s 1267 committee, and that Beijing’s may be a minority voice. “This time around, it’s not India but other countries (that moved the plea for sanctions). So, there’s a body of world opinion,” he said later, referring to a recent move by the US, France and the UK. Jaishankar said these countries “seem very well convinced, else they would not have taken the initiative to move that proposal... The burden of proof is not on India.”
 
 Another reason cited by China for stopping the UNSC committee from censuring the Jaish chief is what it describes as a lack of consensus in the committee. To this, Jaishankar said, “There isn’t a consensus because China hasn’t joined it.” 
 
 The Chinese officials Jaishankar met were led by executive vice-minister for foreign affairs Zhang Yesui. Jaishankar also had a separate meeting with Chinese foreign minister  , after which the two sides agreed to work on the reconstruction of Afghanistan and coordination on international affairs.
 
 China also indicated that it was not yet ready to significantly change its stance on India’s entry into the Nuclear Suppliers’ Group, but said it has an “open approach”. Chinese officials said “there are still issues of procedure and processes” that needed “further clarification and discussion” because of which they were “not in a position to bring it to a definite conclusion”. 
 
 The Chinese also raised the issue of President Pranab Mukherjee inviting the Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama, whom China regards as a separatist, to a function at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Indian officials said that the event was not political, and that Dalai Lama was one of the Nobel Laureates invited to discuss a social issue.
 
