NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court added State Election Commission (SEC) as a respondent in the PIL praying for compliance of Maharashtra government’s resolution of 2005, which mandated  .

 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice   directed the election commissioner to make a statement on next hearing on facilities like ramps and handrails to be provided to the specially-abled persons, to enable them to exercise their franchise rights.
 
 The court also told assistant government pleader to take instructions on providing facilities at 37 buildings in the city, the proposal of which was already dispatched to the  . The central government through counsel AM Joshi was asked to take instructions on progress regarding similar facilities at various post office buildings in the city. 
 
 All the respondents were told to file their replies before February 2, fixed as next date of hearing. 
 
 The PIL is filed by NGO Indradhanu through president PN Andhare, who is himself disabled, and secretary  , praying for directives to the local authorities, including   (NMC), to make efforts to implement by-laws, guidelines and measures to ensure a barrier-free built environment and non-discrimination in transport for the handicapped and senior citizens.
 
 Their counsel Anup Gilda contended that besides NMC, even the banks failed to set up ramps or a guide rail for such persons. Pointing out several lacunae on the roads and footpaths, he claimed that they were laid in such a way that it becomes difficult for both disabled and elderly to move and the encroachment on all the footpaths obstructs their movement.
 
 The petitioners contended that despite Lokayukta’s recommendations, the master transportation plan for the city has no provisions for disabled and there is no monitoring system by which the implementation of the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016’, can be verified. Additionally, there is no grievance redressal mechanism by which these issues can be resolved. Citing RTI query, they claimed that NMC could not cite even a single government building where facilities are provided for the disabled.
 
 During one of the hearings, the court had asked NMC commissioner to take stern action, including the departmental enquiry and also police complaints against such erring officers, if they failed to comply with its orders. Afterwards, the Maharashtra government assured that it will immediately remove all barriers from all buildings under its jurisdiction for smooth entry of such persons.
 
 The court had then asked the government to inform about efforts taken in this regard and also to furnish details regarding expenditure of Rs7.60 crore funds released by the centre for every state for welfare of handicapped and senior citizens. These funds were allocated in October 2011 for construction of handrails and ramps in the government buildings, which are frequently used by the people.
 
