HYDERABAD: There are more than 400 ‘eve teasing hotspots’ in the  , according to SHE team   Most of these hotspots, where the maximum number of offenders have been picked up, are bus stops or crossroads.

 “We have identified nearly 400 eve   where the maximum number of eve teasing incidents occur or the maximum number of offenders have been caught. Most of these spots are located at bus stops and crossroads. We have also noticed that the menace of eve teasing is especially rampant around educational institutions and college premises. Most of the offenders are in the age group of 18 to 30 years or are students or unmarried men. 
 
 A few offenders are even older than 45 years,” said Saleema Shaik, in-charge of the Cyberabad SHE team. She identified the KPHB bus stand as one of the eve teasing ‘hotspots’ within Cyberabad limits.
 
 A look at the few cases that were handled by the SHE teams this week and in April show how cellphone stalking and cyber crimes are the two categories that received the maximum number of complaints. Many women complained of being ‘blackmailed’ with nude photos and videos. 
 
 Official figures indicate that in the first week of May alone, 11 complaints from women were registered with the Cyberabad SHE teams, based on which five cases were registered and seven accused counselled at the Crime Against Women (CAW) cell in the Cyberabad Commissionerate. In April, 86 complaints were lodged by women, out of which 12 accused were remanded to judicial custody while 15 were counselled. Nine decoy operations were conducted in April and three offenders were caught red handed while indulging in eve teasing.
 
 The situation seems to be no different in the neighbouring Rachakonda commissionerate, which has also identified bus stops and crossroads as places where a majority of eve teasing incidents occur.
 
 “The eve teasing hotspots in Rachakonda commissionerate include the LB Nagar Chowrasta and bus stop, the ECIL bus stop, Kushaiguda bus stop and the Uppal ring road. Eve teasing incidents occur at these spots round the clock,” said M Snehita, assistant commissioner of police and in-charge of the SHE teams, Rachakonda.
 
