NAGPUR: To prevent disappointment spreading among the party workers, BJP conducted assembly constituency-wise   those who sought tickets for contesting in the upcoming   (NMC) elections. Joining the league, Congress, which is famous for rebels, have also started counselling workshops in all 38 wards.

 Meanwhile, chief minister   and union minister   have organized a meeting of BJP MPs, legislators and party leaders at 6pm on Monday at Ramgiri. The meeting will be the first since the announcement of NMC elections.
 
 In a strong position in the centre and state, BJP had received massive response from party members when forms were invited for selection of candidates. Sensing the chances of resentment among the party workers after the release of candidates’ list, BJP conducted workshops of ticket seekers in all six assembly constituencies and hosted a lavish lunch between January 15 and 20.
 
 BJP MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh and Krishna Khopde told TOI appreciated the initiative taken by the party. “Everyone in the party aspires to become a public representative but it has limitations. Therefore, legislators, party leaders spoke to ticket seekers during the workshops. There are no chances of rebels in BJP but need was to advice the ticket seekers not be disappointed if they are not given tickets,” Khopde said.
 
 Deshmukh said there is an excitement among the party workers about good work being done by the BJP government in the centre and state and everyone is collectively working to regain power in the NMC. “BJP parliamentary board talked one to one with ticket seekers during interviews. Views of presidents of various units were taken. BJP is the only party that takes everyone’s advice when it comes to selecting candidates for election. Earlier, BJP used to organize one programme for all ticket seekers. Now since response is huge, constituency-wise programmes were held,” he said.
 
 Congress, which always sees party workers rushing for tickets in NMC elections, too received good response from all wards in the city.
 
 Congress city President Vikas Thakre said programmes are going on in all wards. “Purpose of such workshops is to bring all aspirants in one place and mitigate the differences among themselves, if any. Party workers are eager to see Congress regaining power in the NMC as they are fed up with corrupt governance of BJP. Our ticket seekers are visiting people in wards. Therefore, there are less chances of rebels in the party this time,” he said.
 
 Movement for selection of candidates in BJP is likely to gain momentum with Gadkari returning back to the city after a long foreign tour on Monday. Fadnavis and Gadkari are likely to take stock of pre-election process and take final decision on few corporators and leaders from other parties who wish to join the BJP.
 
