KOLKATA: For Bengal’s newly-appointed advocate-general  , age is just a number. Dutta’s staple refrain to anyone asking him whether at 49 he is Bengal’s youngest ever A-G is, “How does it matter? I guess merit does.” But for most part of Thursday, however, the only question in everyone’s lips in the Calcutta high court corridors, is whether Dutta or Dipankar P Gupta — appointed in the   regime — is (or was) the youngest A-G.

 “It’s an onerous responsibility,” the media-shy Dutta said. “I hope to do my best. But first let me understand my role and responsibilities better only then I can speak on it more,” he told, as colleagues walked up to him to convey their wishes. A younger lawyer quipped, “Good for you Sir. But it is a loss for us. You won’t be taking up our (private) cases.” Dutta replied, “Frankly, I have just heard of the (government) notification. Please give me a two-three month breather to understand my role better.”
 
 But if Thursday was any indication, Dutta may not get such long a time. He had to plead his first case for the state today itself before the bench of acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty. The bench first conveyed its wishes to Dutta in his new position. Dutta told the bench that it is a huge responsibility and he wants to be evaluated on merit. But it was perhaps Justice Mhatre who summed up Dutta’s predicament in a short sentence, “It’s your last day as a free man.”
 
 Assisted by government pleader Abhrotosh Majumdar, Dutta took up his first formal task — to justify why the state is reluctant to permit the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association to organize the 507th birth anniversary of Gurudeb Bir Surjya Biswa Mahabir Chila Roy. The state’s decision was upheld by a single-judge bench of Calcutta high court on February 7. The association, therefore, moved before the division bench against it. The HC reversed the earlier order and allowed the two-day festival beginning Friday with some riders.
 
 Dutta said, “The bench ordered that the association first deposit Rs 5 lakh. They have been directed not to cook on the premises and to vacate the premises immediately after the two-day festival. Damages if any, the court said, would be forfeited from the advance deposit.”
 
 
