MEERUT: Eyeing on the 19% vote share of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, BSP is leaving no stone unturned to woo voters for the upcoming assembly elections. While BSP has already announced 97 Muslim candidates on the 403 seats in UP, now special campaigning to woo Muslims have started.
 
  New office bearer positions have been created for Bhaichara committees to woo Muslims and as many as two Vidhan Sabhas are being covered in one day for public gatherings of the community.
  
  Speaking with TOI, Ram Kumar Asnavade, the newly appointed general secretary,  , West UP, said, “We are trying to hold as many Bhaichara committees as possible in each Vidhan Sabha until polling starts. The plan is to cover at least two Vidhan Sabhas every day so that all the constituencies in West UP are covered by the time elections begin. The districts where polling has to begin first are on our priority right now.”
  
  The assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases between February 11 and March 8 and counting of votes will take place on March 11. According to 2011 Census, Hindus share a majority of 79.73%, Muslims (19.31%), Sikhs (0.32%), Christians (0.18%), Jains (0.11%), Buddhists (0.10%) and the remaining 0.29% did not state their religion.
  
  By announcing Muslim candidates on 97 out of 403 assembly seats in the state, BSP has cleared Mayawati’s focus on the Dalit-Muslim combine. Dalits and Muslims account for 38.5% of the state’s population, which is more than enough to give any party absolute majority in the assembly.
  
  It should be noted that in August 2016, Afzal Siddiqui – son of Mayawati’s trusted lieutenant Naseemuddin Siddiqui – was given the responsibility to woo Muslim voters in West UP. Recently, Shahid Akhlaq, former BSP MP from Meerut was given the same charge.
  
  Talking to TOI, Akhlaq said, “It is a known fact that SP did not stand by its promises of giving reservations and jobs to Muslims. Also, the situation of law and order worsened during SP rule. People know that BSP is the best option for them because the law and order situation is the best under Mayawati’s rule. In the Bhaichara Committee meetings, we ensure that our strong points and weak points of other parties are communicated to the masses.”
