CHAWINDA DEVI: Sunday saw Majitha assembly constituency getting transformed into a battlefield by supporters of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress with NRIs campaigning for their respective candidates ahead of the assembly and Amritsar Lok Sabha byelections slated for February 4.

 While AAP’s national convener   addressed a series of rallies at Dayalpura, Boewal, Bhilowal, Chiwandi Devi and Nag Kalan villages, NRIs, aboard the NRI Express, toured villages of Majitha assembly constituency, urging people to vote for Congress nominee Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia.
 
 Blaming both Congress and SAD-BJP alliance for plundering wealth of Punjab and making Punjabis suffer, Kejriwal especially targeted Akalis for allegedly implicating innocent peoples in false cases. Later, speaking at a rally at Chawinda Devi, Kejriwal said, “Both parties have looted Punjab for decades and their leaders have common business interests. Now, with AAP emerging on the political map of Punjab, they fear that their illegal trades and misdeeds will be exposed in public. This fact stands proved as neither Rahul Gandhi nor   mentioned the involvement of Bikram Majithia in drug trade during the recent rally of Congress in Majitha.”
 
 Taking a jibe at the “Congress and SAD responsible for sacrilege in Punjab: Sukhbir Badal”, an erroneous press note released by SAD, Kejriwal satirically reacted, “God has forced Sukhbir Badal to speak the truth.”
 
 On the other hand, the NRI delegation was not happy visiting the constituency. “Our observation is that under the present regime, Punjab’s development has fallen back by three decades, which is unfortunate. Only the Congress can revive the good old days of Punjab,” said Kanwalpreet Singh from UK while talking to TOI.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 At Veerum and Johal villages, a group of NRIs from Canada, USA and UK, interacted with local residents and enquired about the issues troubling them. “We are peeved at the rampant drug abuse in Punjab,” said Gurmeet Gill from the US. They also went from door to door in favour of Lalli Majithia. Meanwhile, Kanwalpreet laughed at the reports that some NRIs were campaigning for AAP candidates. “Who will come all the way to canvass for candidates whose leaders ask for $200 per plate for dinner,” he said.
 
