LUCKNOW: Living a story of fraud inspired by the film Bunty Aur Babli, a   was arrested for duping banks of Rs 4.5 crore in the name of loans.

  arrested Suraj Mishra (38) and his wife Shalini (36) from Jankipuram on Thursday. A model of highend automobile brand Audi, a Scorpio car, identity card of a news magazine, five voter IDs, and two   were recovered from the couple.
 
 Suraj, who had studied till class II, was a `journalist'. His wife had studied till class V. The couple frequented five-star hotels in Nepal and Bangladesh.
 
 It was while studying pending cases of bank frauds worth Rs 10 lakh that STF came to know of the couple. Four cases of fraud, cheating and dishonesty are registered against Mishra and his wife in different police stations of Lucknow.
 
 ASP Arvind Chaturvedi said Mishra had taken loans from various banks in connivance with bank officials.The couple would use fake certificates of government institutions to secure these loans. This continued from 2011 till this year.
 
 According to the police, Mishra had registered a piece of land in Jankipuram in two parts. One part was on his name and the other on his wife's. He had taken a loan of Rs 39 lakh on the latter.He then got an ad published in a newspaper stating that he had lost his registry papers. Following that, he fleeced another bank and took a Rs 1-crore loan on that same piece of land on fake documents.
 
 A little later, he contacted an assistant general manager of a government bank in Hazratganj and obtained a loan of Rs 1.1crore by depositing a fake certificate `approved' by the commercial tax department. According to the fake document, Mishra was a businessman with `stock of fresh vegetables' and `black salt' worth Rs 1 crore and needed trucks.
 
 The bank loaned him the money and transferred the amount to a truck company.However, Mishra connived with an accountant from the truck company and got the amount transferred in his bank account.
 
 “He deposited registration papers of some autorickshaws in the bank and bank officials failed to even verify them. With the money obtained, Mishra bought an Audi. On that car, he took another loan of Rs 20 lakh from a financial institution without obtaining registration papers of the car from RTO. In this way, he took loans worth Rs 4.5 crore from various institutions,“ said Chaturvedi.
 
 Mishra had also taken a loan of Rs 50 lakh by showing a solvency certificate from the DM's office. “We are probing the cases against him and also the involvement of other persons,“ Chaturvedi added.
 
 Whenever an inquiry was made for loan recovery, Mishra was never found on the address he had given.SSPDIG (STF) Manoj Tewari said the involvement of the bank official and accountant was under investigation.
 
