LUCKNOW: Chief minister   didn’t show any sign of a newcomer, observing over   on his   in office. He started early in the morning with a long meeting with the   and continued till late in the evening with an informal one-on-one interaction with ministers.

 Having completed his morning spiritual session and the daily puja, the CM started calling top brass of the government to brief them what he wants and what is the agenda of his BJP government. He is still putting up at the VVIP guest house which has been completely fortified and made inaccessible for the routine visitors. No one has been appointed in the CM’s secretariat, but he started working from an impromptu office with the help of five personal assistance.
 
 After a 90-minute meeting with Bansal, reportedly to discuss the portfolio, Yogi sat with his two deputies for some time. Thereafter, the first one to be called by him was principal secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal. Chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar and DGP Javeed Ahmed also reached guest house soon. With them, he discussed the agenda of his first meeting with principal secretaries and departmental heads later in the afternoon.
 
 While Sehgal was seen making several round to guest house to discuss various issues, the DGP was called thrice as Yogi gave him instructions to solve the BSP leader murder case in Allahabad. Former chief secretary Deepak Singhal was also among those who met him. Before 3 am meeting with officer, he met several ministers and MLAs, besides party workers and even common people were dropping in to seem him.
 
 After holding a meeting with officers, he went to 5 Kali Das Marg for the first time around 3.45 pm to perform a brief puja, which was going on there since morning. He then led his 46 ministerial colleagues to Raj Bhavan to attend a get-together hosted by Governor Ram Naik.
 
 From Raj Bhavan, he went back to guest house, where he started informal interaction with ministers, reportedly to gauge their orientation and aptitude before allocation of portfolions. This continued till late in the evening before he retired for the day. On Tuesday morning, he would go to Delhi to meet PM Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah.
 
 GFX
 
 ALL IN A DAY
 
 The newly appointed CM hit the ground running on day one 
 
 4.00 am | Wakes up and performs his daily chores and puja at VVIP guest house
 
 7.00 am | Hold first meeting of the day with org secy Sunil Bansal reportedly to discuss portfolios
 
 9.30 am | Starts meeting with chief secy, DGP, principal secy, home and information 
 
 10.00 am | Dy CM Dinesh Sharma arrives for meeting
 
 11.00 am | DGP called again for giving out instruction on Allahabad killing
 
 11.30am - 1.45 pm | Meeting with some other ministers and legislators
 
 2.00 pm | Sharma and Maurya arrive again at VVIP guest house
 
 3.00 pm | Reaches Lok Bhawan for a meeting with IAS officers 
 
 3.45 pm | Arrives at 5 KD Marg for puja
 
 4.00 pm | Reaches VVIP guest house, followed by Sharma and Maurya. The three again hold a meeting
 
 5.00 pm | Arrives at Raj Bhavan for the get together hosted by the governor
 
 7.00 pm onwards | Starts meeting ministers for an informal interactions over portfolios at VVIP guest house before retiring for the day
 
 
