Nagpur: With 21   positive cases and one death in the last 18 days, private hospitals in the city are gearing up to tackle any situation arising out of outbreak of the disease.

 On the other hand, the   (GMCH) seems to be ill-prepared.
 
 The GMCH’s infectious ward on the TB ward premises, where a swine flu section would have ideally been operated, is in a shambles. At the time of outbreak of the disease in 2015, the 10-bedded ward no. 25, known as the female ward, was converted into swine flu ward. But after the GMCH stopped receiving swine flu cases, the ward was reconverted into a female ward.
 
 The GMCH had proposed a swine flu ward over the land besides the occupational therapy department adjacent to its main building.
 
 However, the GMCH has not managed to complete even 50% of the construction work till date. A source from collector office told TOI, “The District Planning Committee (DPC) had sanctioned funds worth Rs 1.90 crore, of which Rs 1.42 crore was released in the 2011-12 financial year. The ground was built at a cost of Rs 25 lakh. The remaining funds were returned to the DPC. The project remains incomplete and the swine flu ward could not be operated there.”
 
 Citing no swine flu positive cases at GMCH, the college plans to set up a cold ward at the existing structure this summer.
 
 Dr V S Shahastrabhojane, head of the medicine department at GMCH, said, “Till now, the GMCH hasn’t reported a single positive swine flu case, but we are prepared if such a situation arises. We have all the required staff to handle the situation. We also have enough stock of medicine to treat the patients as well as H1N1 vaccines for the hospital staff.”
 
 “If we start getting cases, a decision on where to operate the patients will be taken accordingly,” she added.
 
 Private hospitals which had handled swine flu cases in the past said they are prepared to handle any situation.
 
 Dr  , director of KRIMS hospital, said the hospital has kept a 10-bedded swine flu ward ready. Dr   of Suretech hospital, which is currently treating two swine flu patients, said the hospital has kept a separate 4-bedded swine ward.
 
 Dr Ashish Shukla, chest specialist at   (OCHRI), said, “OCHRI has four isolation chambers at the ICU. If the number of patients grows, we are prepared to have a separate ward.”
 
