CHARMINAR: Preliminary data collected through   in several areas of Old City reveal that the burden of disease and debt is quite high, creating a negative impact on the socioeconomic aspects of people like education, employment, women empowerment and general wellbeing of families.

 The   is being carried out by a non-government organisation,  , to study the gravity of ill health and financial constraints of families, mostly from the principal minority community . About 100 households are covered daily by a team of volunteers.
 
 The survey began on May 2 and it will conclude after assessing socio-economic and medi cal data of about 5000 families.The preliminary results of the survey gain significance as the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan is round the corner.
 
 “The primary intention of the field-level and door-to-door survey is to understand the health and socio-economic parameters of the Muslim population in the Old City and other minority clusters of Hyderabad,“ said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, founder of the Helping Hand Foundation. He said the preliminary data points to the fact that the minority population particularly in urban slums is living with a double edge sword -disease and debts. “These parameters are interwoven. They have a negative impact on the socioeconomic aspects of life like education, employment, women empowerment and wellbeing of families,“ he added.
 
 Areas like Shaheen Nagar, Hasan Nagar, Hafiz Baba Nagar,  , Asad Baba Nagar, Pahadi Shariff, Errakunta, Nawabsab Kunta, Talabkata, Vatepally , Bhavaninagar, Yakatpura, Kurmaguda, Sultan Shahi, Hussaini Alam, Rein Bazar, Madanapet, Moin Bagh, Kalapather, Falaknuma, Golconda, Karwan, Tapachabutra, Rajendranagar and Shaikpet have been covered under the study .
 
 “Apart from basic bona fide data, we are seeking details from households on the incidence of disease and access to medical facilities, debts on account of treatment in private hospitals, monthly expenses on medical treatment and the net impact of disease and debts on the wellbeing of the family . We are also trying to study the awareness level and utilization of targeted government schemes for minorities like Shadi Mubarak and housing,“ Askari said.
 
 The study of the socioeconomic conditions of the minority households ahead of Ramadan will provide the much needed data for charity organisations to effectively plan and channelize the spending of Zakat collection.
 
 The NGO is also making a   on the economic and health conditions of the community in the Old City 
 
