AHMEDABAD:   in the state are shedding tears as against the production cost of Rs 7.5 per kg they are unable to get prices more than Rs 3-Rs 8 per kg. A glut of onions in the market has forced the Mahuva   (APMC) to suspend purchasing onions since Friday. Trading will start again from Monday, but the lack of minimum support price (MSP) for onions is also hitting farmers hard.

  The secretary of  , Jaydeep Vaja, said, “Traders had no place to stock the fresh crop purchased and hence we had to stop trading since Friday. We will again begin trading from Monday.”
 
 “The APMC on Saturday had a stock of nearly 90 lakh kg. The transportation cost of onion has also increased due to demonetization,” said Vaja, adding, “The cost of transporting onion by road to Punjab and Rajasthan has increased from Rs 2.70 per kg to Rs 3.30 per kg.”
 
 “Moreover,” said Vaja, “transporters from   don’t want to go to northern parts of the country as they unable to get any business on their return trip. Each truck carries 21 to 35 tonnes of onion depending on the size.”
 
 He further said that of late the railways have given one open wagon daily which loads nearly 50 tonnes of onion and the cost comes to just Rs 66,000 for 50 tonnes.
 
 Ghyanshyam Patel the chairman of APMC Mahuva said that though there is little interstate trade, traders from   are pushing their onion into Gujarat’s markets resulting in less purchase from Bhavnagar. This year’s crop in Nasik is almost double that of last year.
 
 Patel further said that demonetization has increased labour cost and pushed up production cost of onions in the state to Rs 7.50 per kg, while good quality onions are not fetching prices higher than Rs 5 per kg. Lower quality onions are going at Rs 3 per kg said Patel.
 
 Patel said that he has written to the state agriculture minister, Chiman Sapariya, and Mansukh Mandaviya the minister of state for chemicals & fertilizers, and even to Parshottam Rupala, the Union minister of state for agriculture, farmer’s welfare and have urged them to have support prices also for vegetables. “We had even demanded a wagon every day and now we have been getting it for the last three days.”
 
 He said that for the last three days, Mahuva was getting nearly two lakh 50-kg bags resulting in a glut. The farmers this year may not get more than five to six rupees per kg this year, said Patel.
 
 Not just Mahuva, but even Bhavnagar APMC was also getting around 80,000 bags of onions daily and the price hasn’t risen more than Rs 6 per kg for the best quality onion. D S Royla, secretary of Bhavnagar APMC said that red onions are heading to Punjab and Delhi while the white onions are reserved for the dehydration plants. There are several farmers who have gone in for sowing in February, too, and hence the market would be getting fresh crop till May.
 
 
