BHUBANESWAR: As the capital city turned into a fortress ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two-day visit, starting Saturday, the massive security arrangements resemble the annual  . It will be a testing time for the police as Modi apart from at least 100 other  , including 13 chief ministers, are scheduled to attend the party’s 
  committee meeting at Janata Maidan. 

  “The way we prepared the security arrangements for the  , it is nothing less than Rath Yatra preparations. During Rath Yatra, we deploy around 4,000 police personnel at Puri. For the security and traffic management on April 15 and 16, we will mobilise at least 3,000 cops,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Police said Modi’s security is being looked after by the Special Protection Group, whereas Z Plus security arrangements will be made for the 13 chief ministers. Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s security will be supervised by the national security guard, police sources said. 
 
 On Thursday, DGP Kunwar Brajesh Singh and police commissioner Y B Khurania oversaw the security drill and rehearsal of the movement of Modi’s convoy along airport-Raj Bhawan-Janata Maidan routes. “As per security protocol, the airport area will be made no-flying zone nearly one hour before the PM’s flight landing. The PM is scheduled to arrive at the airport at 3.30 pm. We have made adequate security arrangements for the smooth conduct of the two-day meeting,” Singh told TOI. Police will block the traffic along airport—AG Square--Janata Maidan during Modi’s movement. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Singh said total 100 platoons of police force and two companies of the Central Reserve Police Force will be garrisoned during the two days. Four inspector-general ranked officers and 15 SP-ranked officers will monitor security arrangements. Starting from the airport, Raj Bhawan to Janta Maidan, the entire route has been divided into five sectors from the security point of view. Several police officers from other districts have been mobilised in Bhubaneswar. 
 
  The DGP said that the PM and his carcade of 23 vehicles will head towards the Raj Bhawan from airport. Later on, he will start for the BJP national executive meeting venue at Janta Maidan. Modi is scheduled to visit Lingaraj temple at 9 am on Sunday.
 
