PATNA: Eminent geologists of the country on Wednesday recalled the marvels of water supply system developed in medieval period (17th century AD) to address problem of potable water for which almost every part of the country is passing through a tough time now. 

 “It is an irony that in spite of recent advancements in science and technology, a vast portion of the country’s population is clamouring for potable water, though our ancestors had developed their own indigenous system to tap   and surface water resources for meeting their requirements,” said Indologist Prabuddha Biswas at a seminar on ‘Geological and historical account of tunnels in north India’, organized by   on the World Water Day. Biswas happens to be an alumnus of the geology department. He discussed at length about kareez, a system to bring groundwater to the surface, used in those days.
 
 Biswas said the development of kareez on the Indian mainland was first conceived in Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh. The intricate underground system, thousands of kilometres in length, was conceived by  . This 17th century engineering marvel of Burhanpur was executed by Persian ‘geologist’ Tabukul Arj by capturing the flow of rainwater from the Satpura hills towards Tapti and storing it at various junctures. 
 
 He said the system involved construction of long lines of underground tunnels with vertical air shafts to tap the underground water flow from the nearby Satpura hill ranges to the Tapti river lower down. It’s main purpose was to meet the drinking water need of its 2 lakh strong army and the 35,000 inhabitants of the city situated along the banks of the Tapti and Utavali.
 
 Similarly, the17th century ‘panchakki’ (watermill) of Aurangabad (Maharashtra) is another example of meeting drinking water needs through kareez, he said. 
 
 ‘Stepwells’, ‘Baoris’ or ‘Baolis’ are Indian contributions to the water management system. Elaborate water management system was evolved to tap groundwater through the development of vertical and horizontal drainage tunnels.
 
 By the 17th Century, the ‘kareez-architects’ from Iran and central Asia had already arrived in India and kareez techniques were simply adapted and applied in making ‘escape tunnels’. In many forts, the ‘drainage galleries of Baolis’ were evolved into ‘escape tunnels’, Biswas added.
 
 In his presidential remarks, PU geology department head observed that even though tunnels or underground structures have been fascinating, people right since ancient times and have also been part of the common folklore tradition and these engineering marvels have been serving very useful purposes nowadays. They are not only important means of communication and travel, but also used to carry water from mountain springs and dispose sewage or waste water, he added.
 
 Geological Survey of India’s former deputy director general Binod Kumar, Magadh University former pro-vice-chancellor   and geology teachers Ramesh Shukla and   besides postgraduate students participated in the deliberations.
 
 
