MADURAI: The government of India is investigating the probability to strengthen the civil   requirement so that it could identify its travellers in a crystal clear manner by linking their PNR with the passport or Aadhaar numbers, and if any of them behaves in a   it could lead to him or her being put on the ‘no-fly list’ of domestic or international travel, said  ,   here on Saturday.

 The minister was interacting with mediapersons at the Madurai airport after participating in events in Karaikudi. He said that the person who behaves in an unruly manner while flying would be put on the ‘no-fly list’ based on the category of the offence and the ban period would also be based on the nature of the offence.
 
 To a question on BJP leader Tarun Vijay’s offensive remarks, he said that Vijay had already apologised for the same. He also said that the BJP was celebrating its founding day, as a part of which he was in Madurai and Karaikudi to interact with the cadres and explain the programmes of the government.
 
 Stating that 33 unserved airports had been added to the airport network at a cost of Rs 200 crore in just one year, he said the government was open to adding more if the airlines were willing to serve these airports.
 
 Meanwhile, in a memorandum submitted to the minister the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry sought additional facilities for the Madurai Airport. They said that there was an imperative need for further expansion of the present terminal building at Madurai airport in view of the increasing traffic.
 
 They also said that the lack of comprehensive international air service connectivity at the airport was retarding industrial growth and economic growth of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Non-inclusion of Madurai as a point of call in the bi-lateral airports treaties with other countries except Sri Lanka has been restricting airlines like Air Asia, Singapore Airlines, Tiger Airways, Malindo Air, Air Arabia and Fly Dubai though willing to operate direct service to Madurai fully convinced of the potential from commencing such service. There was also an immediate need for commencement of cargo operations at the Madurai Airport, the memorandum added.
 
