MUMBAI: A shoe-maker has lodged a police complaint against two   (RPF) constables for assaulting him after he asked them to take action against two men who were selling general coach seats on a long-distance train for Rs 100 each at   recently.

 One of the two men accused of extortion has been arrested while investigators are in the process of identifying the  .
 
 The incident took place on July 8 when Baldev Chauhan (31), a resident of Chembur, went to Bandra Terminus on July 8 to see off his father, sister and her three children. Chauhan's family was to board the Aravalli Express, which leaves at 9pm. As the family did not have reserved tickets, they stood in a queue for general coach commuters. This queue is supposed to be monitored by the RPF to avoid any unruly behaviour by passengers as seats in the coach are unreserved and anyone can sit anywhere.
 
 According to Chauhan's complaint, he saw two men, dressed in civvies, going around asking for Rs 100 per passenger for seat allotment.Chauhan found this odd and immediately dialled the railway helpline with details of the location. After a while, two uniformed RPF constables arrived and Chauhan informed them about the two men.
 
 However, the shoe-maker has alleged the constables took no action against the two men and instead picked him up. He has stated that the constables took him to an RPF chowky, where they assaulted him.Chauhan then approached the Bandra GRP, where separate complaints were lodged against the men selling the seats and the RPF constables.
 
 Investigators said that they had scanned CCTV camera footage of the spot but it wasn't very clear. “After a preliminary probe, we identified and arrested one of the men who was reportedly selling seats. He is Aslam Sayed, a 23-year-old welder, who works at construction sites. We are looking for his aide," said a senior GRP official.Aslam does not have a past crime record. The RPF personnel have been booked on charges of assault and wrongful confinement. “We have zeroed in on the duo but need Chauhan to identify them independently," said the official, adding that a report of investigation will be sent to their chief once they are identified.
 
