Twinkle, twinkle, not-so-little star, how I wonder what you are. Each time I ask you why, you turn around, and wave ‘good bye’. No, it doesn’t pan out exactly that way. But stars, whatever they are worth in salt and pepper, and with whom we journos share a love-hate relationship, fancy the idea of evading questions. Otherwise, what explains their generic stance on relationships, movies and the galaxy in general? Don’t believe us? Here’s what you’d invariably get from a star if you asked…

 Journo: Apparently, you are dating the co-star of your next film?
 Star: Oh, these rumours always surface while promoting the film.
 Methinks: Yeah, right! 
 
  
  
 Journo: You were seen dining with a hottie last night. What’s brewing?
 Star: I don’t talk about my personal life.
 Methinks: Oh no, it’s making me queasy already!
 
  
  
 Journo: Hearsay is that you are in the family way…
 Star: We’ll talk about it when we get there.
 Methinks: Aww, look at you trying to evade the question… How cute!
  
  
 Journo: There’s gossip making the rounds that you wish to call off your   of many years...
 Star: Don’t ask me this or I’ll call your boss.
 Methinks: Boss, kya daring hai. That really scared us!
 
  
  
 Journo: We’re told you’re charging the skies for your next project...
 Star: I don’t divulge what I earn.
 Methinks: Yeah, you can only reveal the income tax figures, right? 
 
  
  
 Journo: Buzz is that a businessman has proposed to you.
 Star: Oh, we’re just good friends.
 Methinks: Can you please explain how good is good?
 
  
  
 Journo: Rumours have it that you are getting married next month?
 Star: We’re doing this interview for my next film. Let’s stick to that…
 Methinks: Is there really anything left to talk about?
 
  
  
 Journo: Talk is that you have   with your partner.
 Star: We never confirmed we’re dating, so how can I talk about break-up? 
 Methinks: You really think anybody cares about a confirmation with those pictures doing the round?
 
 
  
 Journo: Are you   or seeing someone?
 Star: I’m already married... to my work!
  Methinks: Grrr!
 
 
  
 Journo:   is that you’re working with a renowned director in his next?
 Star: I don’t confirm a film till I sign it…
 Methinks: Or till the money pours into the bank account…Till then, happy meetings to you. 
 
 
  
 
 *PS: This article is a work of jest and irrespective of what you might think it implies, we journos absolutely adore our stars. 
 
 
