BATHINDA: Hot and humid weather conditions, which can lead to build up of pests and disease incidence in  , for the last over 10 days have put the Punjab   on its toes. Sultry weather has led to whitefly reaching the economic threshold level (ETL) of five adults per leaf in cotton plants at many places in Bathinda, Mansa and Fazilka districts. Six adults of the pest per leaf is considered a threat.

 Agriculture department officials stated that the pest build-up was an indication of probable whitefly attack, so they had advised the cotton growers to start spraying potassium nitrate on the crop and irrigate the fields to help the plants gain height. The issue was also discussed at the inter-state consultative monitoring committee’s meeting held at Abohar on Saturday. 
 
 Punjab   (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon, state agriculture commissioner Balwinder Singh Sidhu, agriculture director J S Bains and farm scientists from Haryana and Rajasthan attended the meeting and gave suggestions to control the situation before the pest attack.
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh had earlier in the week directed the agriculture department to maintain a strict vigil to check any probable attack of whitefly on the crop and ensure that only best quality pesticides were sold in market. Dhillon said that, “Though the situation is under control, going by the hot and humid weather conditions we need to be extra vigilant and suggest farmers to use recommended chemicals for spray on cotton crop.”
 
 Bains said that deficient rainfall in the cotton belt had increased the possibility of the pest attack. “If the weather remains dry for a few more days, the situation could turn serious. The field officials have been strictly directed to keep a check on the crop and visit fields,” he said.
 
 Joint director (cotton)   said that at some places the ETL had gone beyond six whitefly adults per leaf on cotton plants. “However, with sprays the situation has been brought under control. We are keeping a constant watch. All chief agriculture officers of the cotton belt districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Fazilka, Faridkot, Moga and Barnala have been alerted,” he maintained.
 
 Flying squads to check spurious pesticides
 
 Concerned over reports of spurious pesticides and insecticides being sold in the market, the Punjab agriculture department on Friday conducted raids at pesticides shops in four districts of cotton belt in Malwa region. Punjab agriculture director J S Bains has set up four teams under joint directors that were sent to Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilkia and Muktsar districts to collect samples of pesticides and insecticides. He also accompanied one of the teams. He said the flying squad teams collected 80 samples on Friday and Saturday. “We have asked the laboratories to test these samples on priority so that we can know the quality of pesticides as we have reports of some spurious pesticides being sold in the market,” he said.
 
