PATNA: The Bihar Police has written to the   (MHA) to stop rape accused   from fleeing out of the country.

 State police’s ADG (HQ)   on Wednesday said the immigration authorities had been requested to detain Nikhil if he approached any of their checkpoints. “We have even requested the MHA to issue a lookout notice for the absconding man,” he said.
 
 Nikhil along with father  , brother   and friend Sanjeet Kumar Sharma have been named as accused in an FIR lodged in the SC/ST police station in Patna on December 22 last year by a girl. Sinha is a retired IAS official of the Jharkhand cadre.
 
 The Dalit rape survivor is the daughter of a former Congress minister of Bihar. She has alleged her sexually exploitation and assault by the accused.
 
 Police have now also included Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee’s vice-president Brajesh Pandey (who has since quit the party post) as a non-FIR accused as the girl during investigations told police that Nikhil, Sanjeet and Brajesh were running a high-profile sex racket and attempted to push her into flesh trade. The former IAS official and Manish abused her when she complained to them about Nikhil, she alleged.
 
 The girl, who was a minor at the time of her sexual exploitation, also alleged Nikhil’s proximity to certain senior police officers in Bihar, and added these officers helped Nikhil escape after she lodged the FIR. “A senior police officer stopped junior officials from arresting Nikhil when he was boarding a plane to fly out of Patna,” she also told newsmen.
 
 Talking to newsmen, ADG Kumar said the accused have been booked under non-bailable sections of POCSO and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “Police will act against Brajesh according to the findings that surface against him during further investigations,” he said.
 
 On February 7, special POCSO court of Parwez Alam rejected the anticipatory bail petition of Nikhil’s father, brother and friend. They have, however, eluded the police net.
 
 The anticipatory bail petition of Nikhil is likely to come up for hearing before the special court on February 27. 
 
 Nikhil and Sanjeet are also accused in other cases of forgery and cheating. Nikhil’s automobile showroom at Saguna Mor on the outskirts of Patna was confiscated on February 17 on the orders of Bombay high court in connection with non-payment of a loan to a Mumbai-based finance firm.
 
