Accelerating the pace of modernisation of the national transporter and ensuring safe rail travel seems to have been on   Arun Jaitley’s mind when he was presenting the first 
  , after doing away with the 92-year-old colonial practice of having a separate annual railway  . 

 After a 17-year wait,   finally got the green signal to set up a Railway Safety Fund of Rs one lakh crore over a period of five years. The NDA government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee had raised Rs 17,000 crore as a special safety fund in 2001, when Nitish Kumar was the railway minister. The recent spate of train accidents have highlighted the vulnerability of the national carrier, which is running its operations using very old assets and outdated technology. 
 
 The Budget proposes to eliminate all unmanned level crossings on the broad gauge network by 2020. With the government keen on giving a massive push to infrastructure, the FM announced the highest ever allocation of Rs 1.31 lakh crore for capex and development expenditure in 2017-18 against Rs 1.21 lakh crore last year. 
 
 The Budget sets an ambitious target of commissioning 3,500km of new railway lines against 2,800km in 2016-17. It also gives a push to long pending accounting reforms as Jaitley announced that accrual-based financial statements would be rolled out by March 2019. Indian Railways has kept its operating ratio at 94.57% for 2017-18 compared to 94.9% in revised estimates and 92% in budgetary estimates for 2016-17. The operating ratio shows how much of revenue goes into meeting expense. The lower the ratio, the better it is for the railways. The transporter failed to meet the ambitious target of 92% due to a huge liability arising from the implementation of the seventh pay commission and negligible growth in the freight loading business. 
 
 Sources said the FM wanted to raise passenger fares for all classes other than the general category, but the plan was shelved considering the assembly elections in five states. “The tariffs of the railways would be fixed, taking into consideration costs, quality of service, social obligations and competition from other forms of transport,” Jaitley said in his speech, hinting at a possible revision of fares after the elections. 
 
 Making rail travel more comfortable and maintaining cleanliness were the other focus areas as the railways plans to spend Rs 2,100 crore on enhancing passenger amenities. Redevelopment of at least 25 stations into world-class structures during 2017-18, making 500 stations friendlier for the differently abled through lifts and escalators, a new ‘coach mitra facility’, and a single-window interface to register all coach-related complaints and requirements were the key promises made by the FM. 
 
 He said all rail coaches would be fitted with clean bio toilets — which contain anaerobic bacteria that break down excreta into methane and other gases that escape into the air as well as the water that falls on the tracks without affecting the cleanliness of the area — by 2019. The FM also announced withdrawal of service charges on tickets booked through the IRCTC website to encourage digital transactions.
 
