Tapping into capital markets to fund infra projects is a smart move but shouldn't finance minister Dr   have also used the   he presented on Friday to bring down revenue expenditure? Is he split between mai-baap populism and Marxist rationalism, has the politician in him trumped the trained economist that he is?

 The crucial and contentious part of the Kerala budget presented by finance minister Thomas Isaac on Friday in the state assembly, which the LDF government has touted as an “alternative development“ path, lay buried in the fine print. In 201718, the state will receive loans worth Rs 21,227.95 crore from various agencies, but 75.6% of this - i.e., Rs 16,043.14 crore -will have to be spent to bridge the state's revenue deficit. A state which has to spend threefourths of the loan amount, meant for capital expenditure, to address revenue deficit is certainly not in the pink of economic health. Rather, it may be moving to an inexorable debt trap.
 
 Isaac justified this state of affairs by citing the stagnation that has arisen as a result of demonetisation and the corresponding need on the part of the state government to increase its budget expenses considerably. He even drew a parallel with his own 2008 budget which was announced at the time of global recession.
 
 The finance minister's budget speech of course contained a raft of welfare schemes. The spending in health, education and social justice sectors has certainly witnessed steep growth ­ the creation of 8,000 posts in health sector and devising a Rs 1,000 cr project for infrastructure up-gradation of government schools in tune with promises made by LDF during the assembly poll. Similarly, the four ambitious missions launched by the government to uplift public schools and hospitals, promote green movement and provide houses for all received handsome allocations in the budget.
 
 Experts analysing the budget have notably dwelt on   (KIIFB), which was rejuvenated by Isaac in his last budget and was his centerpiece this time too. The board, which has already approved projects worth Rs 4,004 cr and is set to approve projects worth another Rs 11,000 cr in the last week of March, will be the source of funding for projects worth Rs 25,000 cr announced in the budget. As the status of Rs 15,000 cr projects approved in the current fiscal is still on paper, the coming year will technically witness the birth of Rs 40,000 cr worth infrastructure development projects financed by KIIFB.
 
 Nowhere in the budget has Isaac mentioned how he is going to raise this humongous sum. The only hint is the chit scheme for NRKs to be launched by KSFE which would indirectly fund KIIFB. Interestingly, the path taken by the state to go forward in the time of demonetisation is in stark contrast to the path taken by the Union government which took exceptional care to bring down expenses by 0.7% in its budget presented on Feb 1.While the fiscal deficit was contained at 3.2% by the Centre, the state chose to keep it at 3.44%, just below the 3.5% upper limit prescribed in the fiscal responsibility and budget management act.
 
 The finance minister didn't touch the tax pattern, except for correcting a few anomalies, as he expects the rollout of GST regime in July. He also announced a VAT amnesty scheme for traders as the tax would be out-of-date soon. The budget also announced a bill to amend the lottery act for taxing lottery draws. The introduction of gender budgeting and the move to make basic internet access a right of citizens has provided the sheen of political correctness to Isaac's eighth budget and the   government's first full budget.
 
