LUCKNOW: Three days after two sisters were brutally murdered in  , a cousin duo in Gomtinagar was critically injured by a machete-wielding man on Friday. Had it not been for alert neighbours, 30-year-old Prakirtita Pandey and her 29-year-old cousin Smriti Tripathi would not have survived the  . 

 Their   help Rajnish Gautam confessed to hitting them with a machete. He had lost his temper when the women asked him to sweep the floor in the morning. He had been hired as a cook just a day ago. He has been arrested and the weapon recovered from him. The cousins are being treated at a private hospital in Gomtinagar. They are critical but out of danger. 
 
 CO   said that at 9.30am, neighbours of M-24 of   heard shrieks from the flat. When they reached there, they spotted blood at the door. They broke into the flat to find the two women injured while Rajnish brandished a machete.
 
 Prakirtita had sustained head injuries while Smriti had gashes on arms. The neighbours managed to overpower Rajnish. “We have arrested Rajnish for attempt to murder,” Yadav said.
 
 ASP (north) Anurag Vats said Prakirtita had been living in the flat for six months and owned a software company in Vibhuti Khand. Smriti had joined her recently and also worked in her company. “They had employed Rajnish on Thursday. He had been introduced to them by the guard at their office,” Vats said. 
 
 Gomtinagar police inspector Vijaymal Yadav said Rajnish appeared to be mentally unstable but that needed to be proven. “He told us that he had met with an accident in 2016 and was in coma for over a month. Since then, he cannot control his anger,” Yadav said.
 
 Later, on gaining consciousness, Prakirtita told police that Danish Mustafa, Sahil Mustafa and Gulnaaz Praveen were actually behind the attack. She alleged the three were her business partners and she had fired them after she got evidences of them committing fraud. 
 
 Inspector Vijay Mal Yadav said, “We will probe this tomorrow. The trio has been booked for criminal conspiracy.”
 
