NEW DELHI: A four-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by the driver of her school van in southwest Delhi’s   on Tuesday afternoon. The accused, Pawan Kumar (25), has been arrested.

 According to the complaint filed by the girl’s family, residents of the area had hired a   van to ferry their children from school. On Tuesday afternoon, the girl was the last one to be dropped. After dropping all other children, the accused parked the vehicle in a secluded area and raped the minor inside the van. After the assault, Kumar dropped her one kilometre away from her house and fled.
 
 The child, a nursery student, started crying and complained of stomach ache and pain in her private parts after coming home. She was also bleeding. She was then taken to a hospital where doctors confirmed sexual assault, police said.
 
 She told her parents about the driver “hurting” her, after which a complaint was filed by the family. The police filed an FIR under POCSO and also informed the Delhi Commission for Women.
 
 Kumar, married and father of a child, was detained for questioning and subsequently arrested. Police have also seized the van. Officers are probing if he abused other students as well. They are also examining Kumar’s mobile phone to check whether he filmed the girl or any other children.
 
 He will be produced before the magistrate on Thursday. The girl’s family has been assured that the case will be tried in a fast-track court.
 
 The girl is undergoing treatment at DDU hospital in west Delhi. She will be discharged in a day or two and provided counselling to overcome the trauma.
 
 There have been several incidents of children being assaulted by private drivers. In May, a school cab driver was charged with repeated sexual assault of a four-year-old girl in northwest Delhi’s Model Town. The abuse was discovered after the girl refused to go to school for some days. 
 
 Police have urged the residents against hiring unverified private vans to ferry their children to school. Officers said there are guidelines for transport of schoolchildren. The cab should have a female attendant travelling with the children apart from a video recorder that is mandatory for school vehicles as per a court order.
 
