KOCHI: The   (KMRL) has started the process of putting in place alternative sources for generating revenues. It has invited tenders for station-naming rights, setting up ATMs and to place advertisements on pillars supporting the transit system. 

 The agency said its focus was to get these aspects ready as the Metro begins commercial operations. "We will be dependent on revenues from alternate sources for operations and maintenance," said a KMRL spokesperson. The Metro agency would also issue tenders for leasing out spaces in the stations and inside the compartments. 
 
 However, the KMRL said as it hasn't received any communication regarding launching of the commercial operations of the rail project it has not put in place feeder services and security systems. "Unless we have clarity on the launch it wouldn't be possible for us to introduce feeder services and security systems. If these systems are put in place before the launch of the service it would result in unnecessary expenses and wastage of money," said the KMRL spokesperson. She also reassured that "everything would be ready" by the time the Metro begins running.
 
 Sources close to   said the state government has not decided on a date for commissioning commercial operations. "It seems that the government wants to inaugurate the project after completing work from Aluva to Maharaja's College Ground. There is even a possibility that the inauguration would happen only in September," said the source.
 
 KMRL would also grant licences to install 34 ATMs at pre-identified spaces at Metro premises from   to Maharaja's Station. The agency has been considering to set up two ATMs at the entrance of each station. 
 
 In order to garner revenues the agency would provide licence for advertising rights for piers, portals and medians. Specifying the standards set for advertisements, the KMRL said drilling or nailing would not be allowed on Metro's structures. It is also stipulated that materials and lighting used for advertisements should not cause any disturbance to the traffic flow or road users. The Metro agency has stated it would not permit audio advertisements under any circumstances. 
 
