NEW DELHI: Soon colleges will become an outpost of the transport office. In an effort to digitise the transport department, the Delhi government is planning to allow colleges to conduct the learner’s   test. Speaking at the launch of 100 new buses for the cluster system, transport minister   announced the initiative. “Since a large number of learners driving license is issued to youngsters, we are planning to authorise colleges to conduct the online test. For a permanent license though, applicants will have to visit the regional transport office,” said Jain.

 This is besides a host of other measures that the transport department is undertaking to turn digital. Calling it an effort to make the department an “e-transport authority”, Jain said that like learners dricing license are being opened up, several other services of the   (RTO) will be made online as well. “People will no longer have to stand in line at RTOs, they will only need to go there for services that can’t be digitised, like a driving test,” said the minister. For those who can’t access a computer, the transport department will offer a service where an official can visit the applicants home for documentation. “A call centre will be started for the service, which will be available from 9am to 10pm, including Sundays. It will be a door-step service, which will be hopefully be available in 2-3 months,” added Jain.
 
 Jain, who was speaking at the launch of 100 new buses for the cluster bus scheme, also spoke about plans to augment the public transport system. The minister said that 450 air-conditioned and 250 non-AC clusters buses will soon be added to the fleet. The new buses, which were flagged off by Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Jain, are GPS-enabled and passengers will be given tickets through e-ticketing machines.
 
 “Delhi government wants more buses on roads so that people who have cars and bikes, can use public transport,” said deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who flagged off the new buses.
 
 With the induction of the 100 buses, the cluster fleet strength is now 1,725 buses while Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), the state-owned bus agency, has around 4,000 buses. Jain said that at present, there are around 6,000 buses including DTC and cluster, but there is a need for 10,000 buses to cater to commuters in the capital.
 
 He said that government has plans to develop   as multilevel buildings. In Narela, Bawana and East Vinod Nagar, three depots are being developed as multilevel depots. “Seven new bus depots are being developed to cater to more buses. 3,000 new buses will be added to city's roads by the end of this year,” added Jain.
 
 The transport department is also planning to develop 31 depots are commercial units, which Jain said the government was working on.
 
  (Delhi integrated  ) operates cluster buses. Under cluster scheme, private players buy buses and run them but these vehicles are operated by DIMTS which pay them as per kilometres.
 
