KOCHI:   Rail Corporation (DMRC) principal advisor   said the delay in executing   works between  's college and Tripunithura would affect ridership. He said the metro's ridership hugely depends on the populous regions of Tripunithura. As metro service would not reach this point initially there would be ridership issues, he said.
Explaining the delay in carrying out work in this stretch he said: “There is difficulty in land acquisition."
 
 He also confirmed that the tenders invited by DMRC for carrying out works between Maharaja's college and   were cancelled as there was just one contender. “We have decided to retender these works,“ said Sreedharan. He said that Kochi metro would be operational between Aluva and Palarivattom in March. The date for inauguration would be confirmed after obtaining clearance from commissioner of railway safety.The metro service would be extended to Maharaja's college in June. Sreedharan said the state government would take the initiative to renew or extend the contract between   (KMRL) and DMRC. The existing contract would end in May.
 
 Sreedharan was delivering Chavara `excellence for social transformation' lecture series at Sacred Heart college in Kochi on Tuesday.
 
 He pointed out that no metro in the world was profitable and Kochi Metro was no exception. “Metros have to be financially sustainable. They won't make profit,“ he said adding that it would be possible to repay loans and meet maintenance and operations cost.
 
 On a question regarding his comfort level while working with Delhi Metro and Kochi Metro he said: “Any metro for that matter is uncomfortable“.
 
 He said though Delhi Metro had its own shares of problems he found it “more peaceful and satisfying than Kochi Metro“.
 
 The DMRC principal advisor said the metro authority was so far able to save around Rs 400 crore in Kochi. He said that DMRC was able to achieve this because they could bring in contractors who quoted lowest rates.
 
 Regarding the extension of Kochi Metro to other regions like Mattancherry and southern areas of Ernakulam district he said it would happen gradually, but not immediately.“ Sreedharan said metro expansion was happening at a slow pace in the country which builds only 20 kms of metro every year. Out of this 16 kms are done by Delhi Metro. Meanwhile, in countries like China they build 300 kms of metro every year.“We have to make up this gap,“ he said.
 
 Hinting at the safety of women passengers he said Delhi Metro transports three million passengers per day, and it is the only metro with a ladies compartment. “Steps are being taken to introduce more such com partments,“ he said.
 
 Sreedharan also expressed his dissatisfaction over the state-of-affairs with Indian railway. The railway budget was completely abolished, and this was a retrograde step. “Railway has to completely depend on finance ministry. Everything has to get the checks and approvals by finance ministry.“
 
 He said the work culture at railways should also change for the better.
 
 On a question on privatisation Sreedharan said it wouldn't be possible for railways to continue depending on government funds. Except for freight movement, train fares have not been changed in past seven or eight years. “Anyone will be prepared to pay if services is good. But, that is not happening,“ he said.
 
