AHMEDABAD: The blazing sun turned Ahmedabad into a furnace as the maximum temperature touched 43.6°C on Thursday. The   ( ) issued an orange alert, urging citizens not to venture out between noon and 4pm to prevent themselves falling prey to heat-related illnesses. 

 According to Met officials, there is little respite in store for people of the state as severe heatwave conditions are likely to continue till April 19. 
 
 Director of the   (Gujarat) Jayanta Sarkar said, “Some respite in the maximum temperatures is expected on Saturday and Sunday when the winds are expected to bring some moisture. But from Monday, the severe heatwave conditions will continue in the state till Wednesday. 
 
 “From April 20, there will be some relief as the winds will become south-westerly to westerly and bring moisture to the state”. 
 
 Weatherman said that currently north-easterly winds are blowing over the state which are bringing extremely dry and hot winds to Gujarat. 
 
 The effect was visible as people virtually shrivelled in the scorching heat. Ahmedabad’s 43.6°C maximum temperature was 4.3°C above normal while the minimum temperature was 22.2°C, and remained 1.4°C below normal. In fact, the city has reported the highest temperature in a decade in the first half of April. 
 
 While the temperatures have gone beyond 43 degrees in April in previous years, they were so towards the end of the month.
 
 Severe heatwave has enveloped Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch regions of the state, which are reeling under extreme temperatures. 
 
 Bhuj recorded the highest April temperature in 124 years and was the hottest place across the state settling at 45.8 degrees. It was on April 30, 1893, when temperature had touched 45.6°C.
 
 AMC has issued the orange alert as the temperature is likely to reach 44°C on Friday. 
 
 As part of its heat action plan, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has set up 600 water stalls across the city and has ensured that all urban health centres and hospitals are equipped with primary healthcare facilities to tackle cases of heat-related illnesses.
 
 “Hospitals have been asked to keep up their supplies of IV fluids, ice packs and even oral rehydration supplements to be able to tackle heat-related emergencies,” said  , in-charge medical officer-health, AMC.
 
