SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: A young   officer, on leave to attend a family wedding, was abducted and brutally shot dead by three to four terrorists in   district of south Kashmir late Tuesday night, triggering widespread outrage in strife-torn Jammu & Kashmir and across the country.

 An unarmed Lieutenant  , commissioned into Rajputana Rifles barely five months ago, was at his maternal uncle Mohammad Maqbool’s house at Batapora when the terrorists barged into the marriage ceremony and dragged him away at about 10pm. Police said the terrorists took the officer, who would have turned 23 on June 8, around 4km from the venue of his cousin Shafiqa Akhtar’s marriage ceremony before mercilessly pumping several bullets into him. The bulletriddled body of Lt Fayaz, who belonged to Sudsuna village in Kulgam district, was found on Wednesday morning. “He was shot several times in the face and abdomen,” said a doctor at the Shopian district hospital. There were also injury marks on the body, indicating that the young officer had put up a stiff resistance against his abductors. The Army vowed to act against the perpetrators.
 
 Lt Fayaz’s funeral was marked by full military honours with many expressing anger at the murder of a “local hero”. There were, however, also reports of some unknown youths pelting stones at policemen outside the graveyard. Nearly a thousand people from Sudsuna attended the last rites.
 
 Though militants have been regularly targeting Kashmiris serving in J&K police and other government jobs, this is the first time since the early 1990s that an Army officer on leave has been killed in the terrorism-hit state. “It’s a clear message by the Pakistansponsored terrorists to intimidate Kashmiri youths into not joining police or security forces, as part of the larger gameplan to shatter the social fabric,” said a senior Army officer. The horrific crime seems intended to deter the large number of local youths who turn up at police and Army recruitment camps despite protests against government.
 
 Intelligence reports said   terrorists were involved in the killing of Lt Fayaz, who was posted with his battalion in Akhnoor in Jammu, after tracking him for some time.
 
 Describing the killing as "a dastardly act of cowardice”, defence minister Arun Jaitley said, “This young officer from J&K was a role model. He was an exceptional sportsman. His sacrifice reiterates the nation’s commitment to eliminate terrorism from the valley.”
 
 J&K chief minister  , in turn, added, "What was more painful to note is that the young officer had come home on vacation where he was attending the marriage of his cousin." The Army, on its part, vowed to take action against the “the perpetrators of the dastardly act”.
 
 Lt Fayaz’s family was terrified by the threats issued by the terrorists while they took him away. “We did not immediately lodge any report with police due to fear. We also presumed he would be let off soon after he was dragged out from our uncle’s home in Shopian,” said Manzoor Ahmad Parray, cousin of the slain officer.
 
 
 
