WASHINGTON: Taking its name from a US-born British merchant who made a fortune in Madras (Chennai) and was involved in slave trade from India, the storied   is drawing attention to its origins this week after agreeing to rename one of its colleges named after a former US vice-president who was also a slave advocate.

 Yale University President Peter Salovey announced on Saturday that scrapping the name of Calhoun College and renaming it in honor of Grace Murray Hopper, a 1934 graduate and   rear admiral who made pivotal advances in computer science.
 
 ''The decision to change a college’s name is not one we take lightly,'' Salovey wrote in an email to the campus community. ''But John Calhoun’s legacy as a white supremacist and a national leader who passionately supported slavery as a ‘positive good’ fundamentally conflicts with Yale’s mission and values.''
 
 The announcement was not only greeted with cheers among the liberal campus community, but brought renewed attention to the name of the university itself and how it came to be founded.
 
 Elihu   was a Boston-born Briton who who was sent by the East India Company to India to prospect for and extend its trading rights in the subcontinent in the 1680s, long before the U.S was even founded. Basing himself in what is now Chennai during the Aurangazeb era, he amassed a fortune, cheating both his employers and the people of India, while going on to become the Governor of Fort St. George. 
 
 The East India Company eventually cottoned on to his rackets and he was packed off home in 1699 after some two decades of rapacious excesses in India, but not before he became known as a slave trader who decreed that every outbound ship from Madras would be packed with ten slaves.
 
 In between his savage capers in India, Yale gave a modest contribution of about 800 pounds through auctioned goods to a group of ministers trying to set up a college in Connecticut, US, and in return was honored with naming the college after him, never mind his unsavory reputation that included hanging a local stable boy to death because he stole a company horse.
 
 There have been sporadic efforts in the past to question this aspect of Yale’s past but the Calhoun controversy overshadowed this in recent months. The social commentator Roger Kimball was among those who recalled Yale’s dark past pointing out that ''In the great racism sweepstakes, John Calhoun was an amateur.''
 
 ''Far more egregious was Elihu Yale, the philanthropist whose benefactions helped found the university. As an administrator in India, he was deeply involved in the slave trade. He always made sure that ships leaving his jurisdiction for Europe carried at least 10 slaves. I propose that the committee on renaming table the issue of Calhoun College and concentrate on the far more flagrant name Yale,'' he wrote in an op-ed last year.
 
 Yale is not the only institution facing a naming crisis. At Princeton, Stanford, Georgetown, Harvard among other schools, liberal students have demanded that the names of buildings, programs and legacies be reexamined to take into account modern sensitivities. Even Thomas Jefferson, among the country’s Founding Fathers, has had his slave-keeping past scrutinized.
 
 The three-century plus Yale is now one of America’s storied and wealthiest universities, with an endowment of more than $25 billion. Among its Indian and Indian-origin alumni are former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s daughter Amrit Singh and former finance secretary Rakesh Mohan. Then there are Yalees like   President Indra Nooyi, Newsweek International Editor Fareed Zakaria, Hillary Clinton’s chief staffer Neera Tanden, and U.S Constitutional law expert Akhil Amar, and his brother Vikram Amar, also a legal scholar.
 
 Of course, there’s the small matter of four of the last seven American presidents - Ford, Bush Sr, Clinton, and Bush Jr - being Yale graduates. 
 
 
