Madurai: She meticulously ensures that the body fits well inside, then ignites it with a wick and closes the chamber. That was body number 1,646 consigned to flames in her five years of service as an undertaker of the crematorium. K Murugeswari, 29, is now comfortable with the job which a woman rarely ventures to take up, but it has come at a price too — her family has been ostracised by her community. 

 Murugeswari has been struggling to make a living with her husband and two sons on the banks of the Kottakudi river in Bodinaickanur. One day, members of the Periyar Sevai Maiyam, a trust entrusted with the task of operating the gas crematorium by the Bodinaickanur municipality, asked her husband, a dhobi, if they could take up the job. “I was scared, but we were finding it difficult to make a decent income that my husband accepted the job. We were given a room on the crematorium premises for our boarding and lodging purpose,’’ she said.
 
 She had to spend many sleepless nights as people of her community too warned against it. They said she would encounter ghosts and spirits. But it has been five years since she occupied the place and she was “yet to encounter a single ghost.” Director of the Trust M Suruliraj acknowledges that it was indeed a tough job for a woman but that she has mastered it by now.
 
  Though there are two more persons, including her husband to help her, it is now Murugeswari who handles most of the bodies as her husband is not capable of working continuously. She earns a monthly pay of Rs 4,000 besides Rs 100 for every body she cremates.
 
 As for the cremation process, they load chips of the juliflora tree, about 600 kilograms of it, into the boiler. As the wood is ignited, it starts releasing methane gas which is let into the cremation chamber through pipes. After placing the body, the burning wick is thrown into it and the chamber door is shut. Murugeswari opens the door twice to check if the cremation is complete, and then collects the remains in an urn to be handed over to the relatives. 
 
 She says that neither of her two boys — 14-year-old Palpandian nor ten-year-old Veerabadiran who studies in sixth standard in the local school — are fearful of her work or place. “They play and sleep without any problems and we cook, eat and watch TV at the house inside these premises,’’ she said.
 
 Her only regret was that the people of her community had ostracised them and as they were doing a job that was not in line with their community’s practices. “But, it is this job that is helping us to live comfortably,’’ she added.
 
 
