BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh minister and BJP MLA from Panna, Kusum Mehdele kicked up a row after the exit of international mining giant   from Bunder-Buxwah diamond mines saying the company exited by donating diamond dust and not the precious stones mined by it in the last decade.

 On February 7, Rio Tinto decided to “gift the Bunder diamond project to the government of Madhya Pradesh.”
 
 “Under a government of Madhya Pradesh order signed in January 2017, the government will take ownership and responsibility of the Bunder assets. The inventory of assets and associated infrastructure handed over to the government comprises all land, plant, equipment and vehicles used at the Bunder project site. The inventory will also include diamond samples recovered during exploration”, a Rio release on February 7 said.
 
 About a week later, the plant manager of Bunder diamond site Gajanand Nayak “donated” 2,700 carats of diamonds to the district mining officer (Zila Hira Adhikari) of Panna.
 
 “They are small and micro rough diamonds and majority of them are 1 to 10% stones. Almost 90% of the diamonds deposited with us belong to this category”, Ratnesh Dixit the diamond officer told TOI. “We have weighed them, noted their size and kept at our office, he said.
 
 On Sunday, BJP minister demanded an inquiry. Talking to TOI, she wondered, “they were handling the mines for the past 10 years and have deposited only diamond dust. Mining department should carry out an inquiry and register an FIR, she said,
 
 She also said that she would meet the chief minister in their regard.
 
 After “comprehensive review of the project”, the multinational mining giant decided to “gift” the project the state government.
 
 In August 2016, Rio Tinto announced it would not proceed with the development of Bunder mine due to commercial considerations and would be seeking to close all project infrastructure.
 
 The Bunder site is in Buxwah village of Chhatarpur district, about 143 kms away from Panna district headquarter.
 
 When the project was underway, it was believed that there were 53.7 million tonnes of Kimberlite deposits—the rocks that contain diamonds—at the site with 34.2 million carats of diamonds. Royalty and taxes to the state exchequer would have amounted to Rs 2,052 and Rs 208 crore, respectively.
 
 After diamond was discovered in the area in 2004, the state government and the Rio Tinto Exploration India Pvt Ltd (RTEIPL) signed an agreement in 2010.
 
