KOLKATA: Education minister   on Monday declared that recruitment of 74,400 teachers in primary, secondary and higher secondary schools will be done within March 31. Chatterjee had earlier thought of engaging retired teachers as guest teachers as a 'stop-gap measure'.

 The state education minister also mentioned that the student-teacher ratio in Bengal is skewed. In some schools, there are greater number of teachers than students, while in some schools there is severe paucity of teachers.
 
 “We need to rationalize this imbalance. Each district inspector (DI) has submitted a report on this imbalance in their district schools. Now, our plan is to redistribute the teachers according to the basis of student strength,“ he added.
 
 Out of 74,400 teachers, 42,400 will be recruited for primary schools while the rest will be hired for secondary and higher secondary schools. Chatterjee mentioned that the recruitment will not only be based on merit but also on credentials and verifications will be done before a person is recruited. The mini ster, however, did not elaborte on what kind of verification will be done.
 
 Applicants without BEd degree were also allowed to appear for TET, but the last date for such relaxation was fixed for March 31, 2017. “The state's decision of allowing non-BEd applicants to take the exams was challenged in the court and as a result of that the appointment process was stuck,“ he added.
 
 Under the new norm, eligibility for junior secondary teacher (for Classes VI to VIII) is graduation with 50 per cent marks; for senior secondary teacher (Classes IX to X), it is graduationPG with 50 per cent marks and for higher secondary teachers (Classes XI and XII), it is PG with 50 per cent marks.
 
 The governing bodies of the schools were asked to justify the new recruitments in the schools. On the basis of the report, the district inspectors prepared the list of vacancies.
 
 Singur in Bengal's history syllabus
 
 Kolkata: The Singur land movement -which brought   to power, ending the 34-year Left regime -is being introduced in the history syllabus of Class VIII in Bengal's government and government-aided schools from sessions starting in 2017, said education minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday.
 
 He described the movement as a “historic win“ for the farmers. “Alongside Singur movement, the   and   will also feature in the syllabus,“ added Chatterjee. 
 
