HYDERABAD: The two Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are all set for the   war which is expected to be ever more intense this time. At stake is the irrigation and drinking water needs of over 3 crore people on both sides of the divide. 

 The total available water at   reservoir is 3.4 TMC and this has to be stretched for the next 60 days or till such time when the inflows happen post-monsoon. 
 
 River Krishna has been the major water source for more than 3 crore people living in Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts in Andhra Pradesh and Nalgonda, Ranga Reddy and Hyderabad in Telangana. 
 
 The water level at Nagarjunasagar as of Wednesday dropped to 504.8 feet which is just 0.8 feet above the last draw level. Last year on May 3, the water level was 507 feet.
 
 The fight between the two states to capture the remaining water at Nagarjunasagar for themselves has heated up with AP and Telangana filing complaints. C Muralidhar, engineer-in chief, Telangana, said, “We have informed the KRMB that whatever water that has been allocated to AP has been released and their quota is over. Against 22.59 TMC feet allocation to AP , we have released 22.69 TMC which includes evaporation and supply losses.“
 
 But AP denies this stating that it still has to get one TMC water from the remaining 3.2 TMC. One TMC water, if converted into liters, will work out to 28.316 billion liters. AP has to supply drinking water to Guntur, Narsaraopet, Sattenapalli, Macherla, Gurajala, Bapatla, Chirala towns. Some of the towns are already facing acute shortage of drinking water with their borewells having dried up and tanks empty.
 
 “We want to resolve the issue amicably as the reserves are meagre. We should use the 3.2 TMC by considering the needs of each state and we are ready for a negotiation with Telangana on this,“ AP irrigation minister Devineni Uma Maheswara Rao told TOI.
 
 In Telangana, the situation is under control but fall in the water level at Nagarjunasagar will hit the drinking water supply to Hyderabad city. The normal drinking water requirement of the city is aro und 320 to 340 million gallons per day (MGD) drawn from five sources that include Krishna, Godavari, Singur, Manjira. But the principal supplies are from Nagarjunasagar. It supplies drinking water to city in three phases, each with 90 MGD. The minimum draw down level is 510 feet but there is a buffer to go up to 504 feet. Beyond 504 feet, the water will not flow with gravity but should be pumped from the reservoir.
 
 “In the last 20 years, only twice has the water been pumped from below 504 feet.During the NTR regime, water was transported in railway wagons from Vijayawada. In 2001 and then in 2005, water was pumped when the level touched 504 feet. The pumps have not been used here in the last 12 years because of which we are not sure of their working condition,“ said a senior official in irrigation department.
 
 “The issue has arisen because Telangana is not following the KRMB decisions. The Centre has to notify the jurisdiction of at least two reservoirs and hand over the supervision to the board immediately. The problem will be solved by handing over the water release duty to KRMB,“ said Koneru Gangadhar Rao, irrigation expert and retired superintending engineer.
 
