NEW DELHI: At a time when media giants in the west are struggling to cope with the digital revolution,   is a startling outlier. Its edgy, “immersive” content has made it a cult brand with the much-sought-after millenials. As a result, Vice has gone from being a single-magazine firm in 1994, the year it was launched, to a news and entertainment group valued at over $4.2 billion. 

 Why has Vice succeeded in attracting a young audience when so many others have failed? TOI put the question to Vice’s charismatic founder and CEO,  . “Young people today have the most sophisticated bullshit detectors, because they’ve been marketed to since they were babies. If there’s something fake, they’ll smell it. Whether it’s news, music, or fashion, you have to keep it real,” said Smith, who is in India to address the ET Global Business Summit.
 
 Vice’s willingness to trust young employees helps it generate authentic content, according to Smith. “We were a Gen X company when we had just a magazine. When we moved to online videos, we became a Gen Y company. We started hiring millenials straight out of college. We’d go to deans of various colleges and say, ‘Who’s your best shooter? Who’s your best cutter?’ and hire them. The deans liked it because their good kids were getting jobs and we liked it because we were getting great talent cheap. Our secret is that we’re the only ones who’ll give $10 million to make a TV series to a 23-year-old who’s never made anything in his life. We joke that sometimes they end up in Buenos Aires with our money, but most of the time we end up with a series that really resonates with the young.” 
 
 By his own admission, Smith doesn’t believe in fake humility. He tells you upfront, “Vice is the world’s top New Media company, and my goal is to take the ‘new’ out of that description.” He also makes no bones about wanting to be 10 times the size of ESPN, CNN and MTV combined. He concedes that a statement like that “gets a lot of rolled eyes”, but adds that all these brands were great success stories on cable, whereas Vice has a big presence on digital, so there is no limit to the potential upside.
 
