BHOPAL: Brace for disruption in public transport tomorrow as auto-rickshaws will be off roads in the state capital. Around 15,000 auto-rickshaw operators and drivers in the city will be on strike in protest against increased fitness fee, and illegal operation of app-enabled cabs from midnight on Tuesday.

 In a statement auto-rickshaw operators have not only refused to ply, but also threatened to stop IT-enabled cabs from entering the railway station and bus stands to pick up passengers.
 
 On Monday, hundreds of auto-rickshaw drivers went on a two-hour flash strike refusing to ferry passengers from Habibganj and Bhopal railway station premises between 11.30 am and 1.30 pm. 
 
 “According to a January 2017 notification, fitness permit fee has been hiked from Rs 300 to Rs 600,” said Pappu Rajput, president of Habibganj railway station auto union adding that it was beyond their reach as their business already took a hit due to illegal operation of app-based cabs. He alleged that many cabs do not have city permits, still they were allowed by the RTO to operate.
 
 The auto-rickshaw drivers demanded a complete ban on registration of app-based taxi cabs in capital, with immediate effect. Alleging discrimination, the auto-rickshaw drivers said the RTO has been charging various fines and taxes from them, while they were allowing the cabs to run without proper permits, which have eaten into their share of earnings.
 
 Rajput said, “The strike will continue until the government rolls back its decision and ban the app-based cabs.” Rajput has been leading the  .
 
 Sajid Khan, president of Bhopal railway station auto Union said, “School and Tata magic vans plying from city to outskirts have no rules to follow. They move in areas not designated to them and have no uniform code or identity proof. Traffic police and RTO always remain mute spectators.”
 
 “My family is into driving auto and dependent on livelihood from the earnings from it. In such condition even if we ask for Rs 10 extra, we are labelled as rogues misbehaving with passengers and overcharging,” Khan lamented.
 
 "Auto drivers had come to us and we have written to the higher authorities to get the matter resolved. It’s not in our hands to make changes in fee, as they have been hiked by the Union government," Sunil Rai Saxena, RTO told TOI. 
 
 Shailendra Shrivastava, state transport commissioner said, “I don’t know about the protest of auto drivers in Bhopal. As far as their fee issue is concerned we have taken the consent from Central government to implement the old fees for fitness. If there is any other issue, we will look into the matter.”
 
 
