KOLKATA: A 29-year-old senior analyst with Tata Consultancy Services was killed in a freak   outside his uncle’s home at Paikpara on Sunday evening.

 Jeet Ghosh was about to enter the uncle’s house, located on a narrow stretch at Chandranath Simlai Lane with a dead end, when a brand new  , parked barely 6m away, started moving at a high speed, hit a cyclist and crashed into Ghosh. He was caught between the iron gate and the front portion of the car.
 
 Police suspect a youth sitting in the parked car belonging to a friend had possibly switched on the ignition — with his foot on the clutch and the vehicle on first gear — and had accidentally pressed the accelerator. As a result, the car lurched forward at a very high speed and went on to ram Ghosh. “The car came to a stop after hitting the iron gate but by then Ghosh was caught between the iron rails and the car. The youths in the vehicle fled the spot,” said an officer of Chitpur police station.
 
 If a car is parked in gear without the handbrake being applied, there is a possibility that if the ignition is turned on while a foot is on the clutch, the vehicle will begin to roll or lurch forward if the foot is taken off it. In this case, the youth’s left foot was possibly resting on the clutch that he may have released in panic when the ignition got turned on. He may also have compounded the error by pressing the accelerator with his right feet while attempting to brake. The car then plunged straight ahead and rammed into Ghosh.
 
 Younger of two brothers, Ghosh was a resident of Paikpara who had completed his MBA and joined TCS in 2015. On Sunday evening, he came on a bike to his uncle’s place to finalise the itinerary of their Himachal Pradesh family trip during the Pujas.
 
 “He was waiting outside the gate and had asked for the keys to the main door. My aunt was about to throw the key from the second floor when the accident happened in front of her. Jeet did not even have the time to react and move as the car hit him,” said Udayan Biswas, Ghosh’s cousin.
 
 Ghosh is survived by his mother Kakoli and elder brother Dhiman, a civil engineer at  . After the accident, local residents made hoardings and posters, expressing their grief over the untimely death of Ghosh, and demanded strict punishment for the culprits. Some of them even raided the home of the car owner, Suman Malakar, four houses apart, that made cops position three policemen outside the house for security. Malakar and his father had already surrendered before the police on Sunday.
 
 Police said Malakar has told them that he, along with four friends, had gone for a joyride to Dankuni with the 15-day-old car and had returned around 6.30pm. “He claimed he had parked his car outside Ghosh’s uncle’s house and had gone to his shop, leaving the keys attached. When he came back, Ghosh was already dead. He suspects one of his friends was behind the wheel but all of them are absconding as of now,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Police have booked Malakar under IPC Sections 279 (rash and negligent driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (causing death by negligence).
 
 Gopal Saha, the cyclist who was also hit by the car before Ghosh, confirmed Malakar was not at the wheels at the time of the accident. “There was a youth in pink shirt who came out of the driver’s seat and fled the spot as the car hit Ghosh. I could not recognize him but possibly it was not Malakar,” said Saha.
 
 
