Nagpur: To focus on primary health care needs of the urban poor, the central government had proposed National Urban Health Mission four years ago. Within the scheme, 50 urban public health centres (UPHCs) that would act as outdoor patient departments (OPDs) and 10   (CHCs) that would be indoor hospitals were to be established in the city. However, till date, only 26 such PHCs have been set up, while not a single CHC has been created.

 NMC’s medical officer (hospitals) Dr Anil Chiwane told TOI, “Till date, we have been able to set up 26 PHC which are being operated with proper staff. Things could be running more smoothly if the centre would have given CHCs in the district. We are pursuing the issue with the government. However till now permission has not been granted to set up any CHC throughout Maharashtra.”
 
 In absence CHCs, OPD patients have to be shifted to NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) or Pachpaoli Maternity Home and even to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and Daga Hospital.
 
 According to the model proposed under NUHM, there should be one PHC for every 50-60,000 population, one CHC for five to six PHCs. Applying the same model to the city, which has a population of 25 lakh, there should be at least 50 PHCs and 10 CHCs. However, there are only 26 PHCs. By this calculation, the city should have at least six CHCs, but, in reality, there is none.
 
 Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had sent the proposal to convert three of its existing hospitals into CHCs. Initially, NMC had proposed its diagnostic centre at Sadar, following which proposals were also sent to convert its maternity home and IGR into CHCs. Till date, there has been no reply from the centre. 
 
 NUHM was proposed in 2013, while the centre had launched it in 2015. The plan was to develop facilities in 779 cities of the country including Nagpur, while 2017 was the deadline to set things up.
 
 In 2015, staff recruitment had begun in the city and, by 2016, the 26 PHCs has been established. For that purpose, NMC’s three dispensaries were upgraded and 23 reproductive and child health (RCH) centres that were idle were converted to PHC. As per NMC, one doctor, three nurses, one attendant and a data entry officer have been recruited to all the 26 PHCs.
 
 Dr Chiwane said, “The general OPD is being run at the PHC while the staffers also have to visit the slums and organize awareness sessions and camps. They also provide immunization in their areas.”
 
 
