Lucknow: Taking a strong note against mass copying during UP Board exams, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma convened a video-conference meeting with collectors and police chiefs of all districts on Thursday.

 Issuing orders to ensure that no copying takes place, the deputy CM said, “Ensure that no-copying orders for the ongoing board examinations are implemented effectively.” 
 
 He stated that news of copying during exams was a question on the functioning of the system as prohibitory orders were into effect. “While prohibitory orders are enforced, how come there was news of copying during exams? The sanctity of examinations should be ensured,” Sharma said, adding that strict action be taken against the copying mafia.
 
 However, he cautioned that innocents should not be affected. “Invigilators should ensure that innocents are not caught in their activism,” Sharma said. 
 
 Referring to reports of mass copying in Hardoi, Aligarh, Kanpur, Kaushambi, Mathura, Kasganj, Unnao, Agra, Faizabad, Gonda, Barabanki and other districts, he directed DMs concerned to act immediately to check the menace.
 
 The deputy CM also warned officers against letting anyone misuse their name or his own. “You all should alert me if someone calls you in my name or any of my relatives’ name,” he asserted. 
 
 Engineers, and not contractors, must run PWD: Maurya
 
 Lucknow: “PWD ko thekedaar nahi engineers chalayein...(Engineers, and not contractors, must run PWD),” came a stern warning from deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya as he presided over a meeting of PWD officials on Thursday.
 
 Maurya, who was allocated the PWD portfolio a day before, reached the department headquarters at sharp 9.30am on Thursday and summoned engineers and other officials to Vishwaraiyya auditorium. After an exchange of greetings and administering an oath of cleanliness to the PWD staff, Maurya asked PWD chief engineer VK Singh: “Jitne bhi thekedaar gadbadiyan karte hain unki list banao (prepare the list of defaulting contractors)”
 
 Even as some of the engineers, apparently alerted about the minister’s visit, came prepared with reports and other papers, Maurya said all department work will be reviewed.
 
 The minister said the state government would investigate complaints of anomalies by the previous government. He later went to Vidhan Bhawan and met senior PWD officers and party supporters before leaving for Delhi.
 
 
