NEW DELHI: The 2017   awards list promises to be a mix of eminent and well-known achievers as well as unsung heroes across various fields. While the big names in the shortlist include former Indian skipper Mahendra Singh  , Olympic silver medallist P V   and her coach P  , the lesser-known likely to be honoured are social activist Alok Sagar who once taught former RBI governor   at IIT, folk singer from Uttara Kannada’s Halakki tribe Sukri Bomma Gowda and sitar and surbahar player from Kolkata Imrat Khan.

 “Of the nearly 120 names cleared for Padma awards -- which are conferred in categories Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan -- around 50% could be achievers whose contributions in their respective fields of expertise or talent have not received ample recognition. The stress this year is to reward such unsung heroes,” said an officer involved with the Padma awards selection process.
 
 Former IIT Delhi professor Alok Sagar, who quit academics and started working with tribals in Hoshangabad and Betul districts of Madhya Pradesh around three decades ago, is a case in point. Said to have groomed several students including former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan at IIT, he now lives a simple and austere life, working full-time for the tribals of Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The Nightingale of Halakki tribe Sukri Bomma Gowda is a brand ambassador for the singing community from Uttara Kannada. The Halakkis have songs for all occasions, be it paddy cultivation, festivals, weddings or childbirth.
 
 Imrat Khan is the lesser known brother of famous sitar maestro Ustad Vilayat Khan. He has been playing both with Vilayat Khan as well as solo.
 
 Among the big names on the shortlist, Dhoni, who recently quit as captain of the Indian ODI and Twenty-Twenty cricket team, is likely to be conferred the Padma Bhushan. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2009.
 
 Sindhu, too, is in line for the Padma Bhushan, having won the Padma Shri in 2015. If her coach Gopichand, who was instrumental in grooming her to clinch the Olympic win, is also honoured, he will get the second highest civilian honour: Padma Vibhushan.
 
 The Padma awards 2017 are set to be announced on Wednesday, coinciding with Republic Day eve.
 
