MUMBAI: Bombay high court has directed BMC to reply why it withheld occupation certificate (OC) to a Nagpada highrise and also what action it took after learning that flat-owners were residing there illegally for six years.

 The court was hearing a public interest litigation by activist Atmaram Mirke regarding violations at the 35-storey Dar Al Mawadda on Dimtimkar Road.His petition said that an old cessed building was redeveloped and contrary to the sanctioned plan for 32 floors, the builder, Ms  , constructed three additional floors.The refuge areas on four floors is occupied, the lift well closed and converted into bedrooms enclosed in the habitable flats and the duct area amalgamated to increase flat area. Pointing out floor space index and fire safety norm violations, Mirke urged for demolition of the three illegal floors and restoration of the lift well, the duct and refuge areas.
 
 The judges took the residents to task for occupying the building without an OC. The advocate for   said the builder had stopped paying them rent and that they were helpless and had no option but to get into the flats. “Why didn't you come to court saying that the builder is telling you to enter the building without occupation certificate?“ asked the bench.The advocate said the society was formed only last year. But Mirke's advocate   pointed out that residents began occupying the flats since 2010 and the society was registered in 2011. The builder's advocate blamed BMC for delaying the OC and maintained that he has not committed any violation. “ About 200 families are staying. There are 60,000 buildings in Mumbai without occupation certificates,“ he added. The bench retorted, “It cannot be a ground to claim equality in illegality . You didn't bother about your responsibility six years ago.“ Asked why OC was not granted for six years, senior advocate  , representing BMC, replied that the building was not according to the sanctioned plan. “Once the Pandora's box is open, skeletons will come out,“ said the bench.
 
 Adjourning the matter, the HC, on April 7, said: “We want a detailed affidavit from the corporation as to what procedural hurdles and defects in construction prevented it from granting occupation certificate in favour of the occupants. We also direct the corporation to place on record action taken, if any .“
 
