BAREILLY: In the past couple of days, there has been a rush of excitement at  . Eyes screwed up in concentration, around 100 inmates can be seen   with   in hand, smoothening rough edges or driving small nails into pieces of woodwork. These prisoners have been working day in and day out to meet the deadline for a consignment of furniture worth Rs 1 crore, to be used in different courtrooms across UP. 

 After the Allahabad high court's approval in March for courts to procure furniture made by jail inmates, the central jail has bagged the substantial order. The furniture being made by convicts here will be used in Bareilly and other districts. Furniture at Allahabad high court itself and several other district courts is often sourced from prisons such as the Naini Jail near Allahabad.
 
 "We have been getting orders for furniture from various places in the past as well. It has helped in the rehabilitation of inmates. Although we cannot match the finesse of high-end products in the market, our furniture is unbeatable when it comes to durability," said P N Pandey, superintendent of Bareilly central jail.
 
 The order comprises furniture such as tables, chairs, bookshelves, computer shelves and sofas to be used in court premises. "We have hired trainers who have been teaching the inmates weaving, stitching and other skills. Many prisoners involved in furniture-making are also dreaded criminals," said Pandey.
 
 There are more than 2,000 inmates lodged in the Bareilly central jail. Orders have come from districts courts in Shahjahanpur, Rampur, Badaun, Moradabad, Urai, Hapur and Hardoi. Most of the orders were received in the last week of March, said Pandey.
 
 "It was only after the Allahabad HC's approval that district courts started sending in their requirements. We will be able to deliver the products in a month's time or by the first week of May," said Pandey. In the past, the central jail has supplied furniture to various places, making considerable profit. The jail administration made a turnover of Rs 12 lakh from the sale of furniture during 2015-16. The money was utilised in the rehabilitation of inmates, officials added.
 
 
