Pune: Close to  ,000 Ola cabs in Pune will switch to CNG in a year’s time. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed to this effect by the online cab aggregator and Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MNGL) recently.

 According to the MoU, CNG kits will be installed in Ola cabs during the next 12 months in a phased manner. MNGL is providing incentives to Ola for converting to green fuel.
 
 Santosh Sontakke, director, commercial, MNGL, told TOI that the city has close to 35 lakh vehicles — including two and four-wheelers — most of which run on petrol and diesel. “The cab population is over 50,000 in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Of these, Ola vehicles form a sizeable chunk of automobiles plying in the city. With increasing number of vehicles in Pune, conversion to CNG has become a necessity to curb pollution,” he said.
 
 Instead of approaching individuals to switch to CNG, MNGL decided to approach Ola, which has a substantial number of vehicles under its wing. “Consequently, close to 2,000 Ola cabs will install CNG kits during the next one year. MNGL will give incentives to the cab aggregator in the form of Rs 4,000 for every Ola vehicle that converts to CNG,” said Sontakke.
 
 This in turn will not only curb pollution by reducing dependence on polluting fuels such as petrol and diesel but also push up CNG sales in the city. MNGL officials said that after the tie-up with Ola, the gas distribution company was also approached by other cab aggregator platforms.
 
 Under the recent alliance, both MNGL and Ola will work closely to promote use of CNG cars and will roll out several initiatives to create awareness about the benefits of running CNG vehicles among drivers and customers.
 
 The alliance will also result in financial benefits for Ola’s driver partners. The MoU was recently signed in a function attended by MP Anil Shirole; independent director of MNGL Rajesh Pande; MNGL managing director AM Tambekar; vice-president-strategic supply initiatives at Ola, Rahul Maroli.
 
 
