Cleared/505 Words (Francis)

 Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday imposed a strange punishment on a headmistress (HM) of a government higher secondary school in Ramanathapuram district by subjecting her to remove seemai karuvelam (prosopis juliflora) trees to an extent of 2,400 sq.ft (one ground of land). 
 
 The headmistress Prema is working in the SSAM Government Higher Secondary School, Thirupulani in Ramanathapuram. She wanted to wreak vengeance against three teachers - P Mugendiran, E Shanmuganathan and Sundaramoorthy, for sending representations about the poor quality of teaching and for gathering information about her that she obtained forged community certificates for her two sons and daughter.
 
 For that she obtained a false complaint from one former girl student of the school stating that they had sexually harassed her. Subsequently, the teachers were transferred to some other schools. Thus, the teachers filed petitions before the high court bench seeking to set aside the transfer orders.
 
 Justice S Vaidyanathan heard the case. The judge, who also conducted in camera proceedings said that it is apparent that Prema with an ill-motive and in collusion with other officials stage managed the whole thing against the teachers. 
 
 “The job of a teacher is equivalent to that of a sculptor, who with his profuse efficiency shapes a material like stone or wood, by witting away at it. Likewise, a teacher brings out the dreams of students into reality so as to shine in the society like stars. Because of involvement of reckless and unprincipled reprobate like the headmistress, the teachers lose their reputation in the society,” the judge said.
 
 The judge said it was of the view that if good teachers are branded as bad by the inefficient person like the headmistress, normally, good teachers will not prefer to continue in the contingent atmosphere and that she should be transferred to some far off place for the welfare of the school, because transferring skilled teachers will definitely be detrimental to the students.
 
 Accordingly, the judge set aside the transfer orders and directed the education officials to allow the teachers to work in the same school. Besides, the court also wanted to impose a cost on the headmistress. 
 
 “For creating restlessness among students and teachers through her unwarranted act, the HM is directed to arrange for uprooting seemai karuvelam trees (prosopis juliflora) to an extent of 2,400 sq. ft. The state government should identify the land in and around Ramanathapuram, preferably near the school. The expenses for removing the trees should be borne by her,” the judge said adding that the principal district and sessions judge of the district should inspect the area and send the report about compliance along with photographs to the high court bench registry. 
 
 In case, the HM fails to obey the order, the government shall do the exercise and recover the amount from her salary, the judge said. 
 
 The judge also made it clear that if the court order is not complied with the joint director (higher secondary) will have to face the disciplinary action for not discharging of duties.
 
 
