CHANDIGARH:The state transport policy unveiled by the   government on Wednesday promises little to revive the moribund  , say experts. There is a shortfall of nearly 50% buses, which means the state needs to at least double the number of the buses on its roads but the policy does not touch upon this and many other burning issues.

 The state is able to transport only 1.2 million passengers daily through its formal bus-based public transportation system. This is just 2% of the total 60 million trips generated in the state daily, says an official of the state transport department. 
 
 Sources said that due to various reasons, there has been virtually no addition to the existing fleet capacity in last 10 years. This shortage of formal modes of public transport travel has resulted into enormous rise in the numbers of private two- and four-wheelers over the years.
 
 Besides, Punjab has 10 municipal corporations administrating as many cities where robust bus-based public transport system can be introduced with about 3,900 buses for a population base of 65 lakh. Punjab requires 9,700 buses for semi-urban and rural population of around 24 million.
 
 At present, the state has just 6,600 buses in operation, which means there is shortfall of about 7,000 odd buses. As per global service level benchmarks, urban area requires 600 buses per million of the population and rural, semi-urban on intercity travel requires 400 buses per million of population.
 
 In addition, public information system is still missing. State traffic adviser  , meanwhile, said he has already taken up the matter with the state government. "Information of all buses such as their stoppage time, name of the owner, bus number, fare details, location of registered office of permit owner and their customer care number can be made available to public via both interactive online and offline systems," he said.
 
 For the safety of women passengers, the Punjab and   high court had earlier suggested introduction of third gender as bus conductors in the buses of Punjab. An affirmable affidavit was also filed by the transportation department, but the latest policy makes no mention of it.
 
 Asija said, "As per the 2011 census figures, transgender constitute 2% of the total population of Punjab. For city bus service, proving employment opportunity for them would definitely result improvement in the women safely and bring down incidents of harassment in buses. Learnings of   can be adopted in order to overcome the social stigma attached," he said.
 
 An official, meanwhile, said these suggestions can be included when the rules of the transport policy are finalized.
 
