MUMBAI:  , a private equity firm with stakes in  , has invested $50 million in   through the  , its global social impact fund.
 
  This is the $2 billion Rise Fund’s first investment in India after it was set up in December. “The deal involves largely a secondary component. We will own significant minority stake in the company post the deal,” said Vish Narain, a partner at TPG Growth.
  
  US-based investment firm   was looking at selling its 23 per cent stake in Dodla Dairy and had mandated investment bank Edelweiss to look for a buyer, ET was the first to report on November 29. Proterra, formerly Black River Asset Management, purchased the stake for Rs 110 crore in 2012.
 
  Hyderabad-based Dodla Dairy, founded in 1998, procures, processes and sells milk and milk products across 66 regions in south India and Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal.
  
  The company was founded by Sunil Reddy of the Dodla family of Nellore. According to the company website, it sells about 900,000 litres of milk and six tonnes of milk products every day through more than 50,000 outlets. Almost all of Dodla’s milk is procured locally from smallholder farmers. The company sources milk from 250,000 farmer across 7,000 villages every day.
  
  “The idea of delivering change, coupled with the mission of driving the business successfully, resonates with entrepreneurs. We are seeing even more inbound interest in the Rise Fund from entrepreneurs than we had expected,” said Bill McGlashan, co-founder of the Rise Fund.
  
  McGlashan, who is TPG Growth founder and managing partner, along with U2 lead singer Bono and Jeff Skoll, a global entrepreneur and film producer, co-founded the Rise Fund.
  
  The founders board includes Richard Branson. India’s dairy sector continues to attract private equity and strategic investors who see a huge opportunity in the growing milk and milk products market.
  
  According to the National Dairy Development Board, demand for milk in India is expected to grow to 200 million tonnes in 2022. The Rise Fund is managed by TPG Growth, the growth equity and middle market buyout fund of global alternative asset firm TPG.
  
  The fund focuses on investments in education, energy, food and agriculture, financial services, growth infrastructure, healthcare, and technology, media, and telecommunications.
  
  “India has more dairy farmers than any other country and is the world’s largest and fastest-growing producer of milk. Yet, many small farmers who produce that milk do not have access to the basic tools and networks necessary to sustainably and reliably generate profits. As a result, most of India’s smallholders are only earning a few dollars a day, surviving on the brink of poverty,” McGlashan added.
