NEW DELHI: Raising an alarm over “a huge shortage of staff in all Delhi government hospitals”, chief minister Arvind   has put the onus on lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal to   up vacancies on an “urgent basis”. In a letter to the LG, the CM said the situation was so bad that there were hospitals with ventilators but no one to operate them. Pointing out that the   was directly in-charge of Services, Kejriwal has said that a proposal prepared by bureaucrats to fill up the vacancies was sent to Baijal without consulting the health minister, finance minister and him.

 “Today, we have a situation in many Delhi government hospitals where we have ventilators but no ventilator staff to operate them; we have machines (X-ray, CT Scan, MRI) but no staff to run them. In many hospitals, there are long queues outside medicine dispensing counters. More medicines counters cannot be opened due to lack of pharmacists. And many posts of pharmacists are lying vacant in many government hospitals,” Kejriwal said in the letter sent to LG on Saturday. He said the situation was equally bad in other categories of staff too.
 
 The LG’s office told TOI that it had no knowledge of any letter from the CM’s office till late in the evening.
 
 “I do appreciate that with best efforts, it would take a few months to fill up all posts. In the meanwhile, we cannot allow our hospitals to work without staff even for a day. I am told that a few lives could have been saved if staff was available to operate ventilators in some hospitals,” the CM stated.
 
 He said he had convened a meeting of medical superintendents of all government hospitals on August 16 and almost all of them complained of serious shortage of staff. “A decision was taken at that meeting that each MS should fill up the vacant posts immediately by hiring requisite experts from outside on a contract basis till these posts were filled up on a regular basis. The chief secretary was directed to seek your approval to empower medical superintendents to be able to do that,” said the letter.
 
 The CM has complained that he has learnt that in the proposal sent to the LG, the bureaucracy had imposed such conditions that no hiring would be possible. “Before the file was sent to you, I called for the file. To my utter surprise, the senior officers refused to show me the file saying that they had been instructed by the LG not to show this file to any minister, including the CM,” he said.
 
 He has urged the LG to send the file to him and his ministers so that they could offer their comments on the basis of their “extensive visits to various hospitals” and their interaction with several patients, doctors and hospital staff. “The final decision would, of course, be taken by the LG. Our objective is the same i.e to provide best quality healthcare to people in Delhi. It is in the best interest of Delhi that all of us work together and in a transparent manner,” said Kejriwal.
 
