Indore: I-buses, which have been regarded as the safest and fastest public mode of transport, is not as safe as you feel, suggests a report of a committee constituted to inquire into an incident of an I-bus catching going up in flames on March 18. Atal Indore City Transport Services Ltd (AICTSL) run I-buses need special care and must not be attended to by regular mechanics at the bus depot. The servicing of these buses is part of an agreement signed between a private agency and AICTSL.

 The committee, led by additional district magistrate Ajay Dev Sharma, has in its high level inquiry found that a lack of regular servicing and maintenance was the primary reason behind the vehicle catching fire at the bus stop in front of Holkar Science College on the BRTS. The vehicle was gutted in the incident while the bus stop was also damaged. Though the fire spread fast, no one was hurt due to the driver’s alertness as he managed to evacuate all the passengers.
 
 An official release issued by the district administration on Monday stated the accident took place due to a short circuit in the bus’s engine compartment. “The bus manufacturing and operational maintenance company has in its report confirmed that the cause of the short circuit was poor maintenance,” said the release.
 
 Additional district magistrate Ajay Dev Sharma told TOI the cause of the short circuit has been established on the basis of technical inspections. “The heavy short circuit had caused the fire in the engine compartment. This was established by the weld in the battery and cable unit of the bus,” he said.
 
 After the report, Indore district collector P Narahari issued instructions regarding recovery of the loss incurred by AICTSL in the incident which is to be recovered from the agency engaged in servicing and maintenance of the buses. The company can also think of terminating the contract between the agency and AICTSL over inadequate maintenance.
 
 Highlighting the condition of other buses, the report states that a technical inspection of other I-buses of AICTSL proves that they are operated without adequate servicing.
 
 “Regular maintenance and servicing is done by our maintenance and depot staff. An internal inquiry is to be conducted and adequate action will be taken against those responsible,” said Mala Thakur, PR official of AICTSL.
 
 
