MEERUT/SHAMLI/SAHARANPUR/BIJNOR: A 16-page booklet titled ‘Muslim Samaj Ka Sacha Hitaishi Kaun? Faisla Aap Karein!’ (Who is Muslim community’s real wellwisher?
 
  You decide!) is doing the rounds in   as Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party seeks to woo Muslim voters to forge a winning combination in addition to its core supporters among Dalits.
  
  The booklet, written in Hindi and Urdu, not only highlights the work done for the community by the BSP governments but also targets incumbent   on various issues. “We have distributed this booklet in every village which has a considerable population of Muslim voters,” a BSP worker said in Siwalkhas, Meerut.
  
  BSP is fielding 97 Muslim candidates. About 48 of these will contest the polls in the first two phases. The party’s concerted efforts to reach out to Muslims face a tough   as the ruling   has tied up with the Congress in part to hold on to its Muslim base. The BJP, on the other hand, is seeking to bring non-Jatav Dalits such Kori, Balmiki and Khatik to erode BSP’s hold over Dalits. It is also reaching out to the Most Backward Castes, particularly Shakya, Maurya, Saini and Kashyap.
  
  BSP, however, showcased its success in garnering support of both Dalits and Muslims early on in Mayawati’s political career. Harora, the reserved assembly constituency that she retained after winning her first election from two seats, including Bilsi in Badaun, in 1996 and won again in 2002, is no longer a constituency since delimitation and is part of Saharanpur Gramin. But BSP hasn’t lost in this area since 1996.
  
  In 2012, BSP’s SC face Jagpal won from the general category seat of Saharanpur Gramin. Jagpal, who had won Harora reserved seat in 2007 polls, is again the party’s candidate from this constituency.
  
  A closer look at BSP’s list of Muslim candidates reveals that most of them are either from wellknown families or the nouveau riche. So Nawab Kokab Hameed is hoisting the party’s flag in Baghpat while Haji Yaqub Qureshi is its candidate from Meerut (South). The family of Rampur’s erstwhile nawab is once again back into the party fold, with Nawab Kajim Ali Khan as its candidate from Rampur’s Suar seat.
  
  BSP candidates are largely dependent on its ground network. The party selected its candidates a year ago itself.
  
  A BSP candidate is known as ‘Vidhan Sabha Sanyojak’ or ‘Vidhan Sabha prabhari’ and meets the district unit first. In BSP, the lowest unit is booth committee, then there are sector committees. These committees are formed under the close watch of the Vidhan Sabha committee.
  
  Every Vidhan Sabha committee sets up bhaichara (brotherhood) committees of different castes. “Obviously, the areas which have Muslim population have their Muslim bhaichara committees,” said a leader close to BSP Deoband candidate Majid Ali.
  
  “Zonal coordinator, a representative of Behanji ( ) , keeps a close eye on all such bhaichara committees.
  
  In western UP, BSP has given special focus to the formation of Muslim bhaichara committees in the recent past,” the leader said. “If you plan to visit a village, you will get support from the organisation there. Inke paas sabhi samaj ke bhaichara committees hain (they have formed brotherhood committees of different communities),” a BSP candidate said.
  
  Alongwith Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Baghpat and Saharanpur, BSP is focusing on Bijnor. Mayawati had entered the LS for the first time in 1989 from here. “We won all the assembly seats in Bijnor in 2007 polls. This time, our party has selected Muslim faces for all the six general seats,” Vijay, a BSP worker, said. BSP had won the Najibabad seat in Bijnor in 2012.
  
  However, Najibabad’s MLA Tasleem Ahmed joined SP. He is SP’s nominee for this seat. “BSP has made the task difficult by selecting Jamil Ahmad who is from the dominant Ansari community. So, BSP has played a good card to counter SP,” said Anwar Ahmad Ansari, a shopkeeper.
  
  From Deoband, known for its Darul Uloom Deoband seminary, BSP has fielded Majid Ali. The Dalit-Muslim combination helped BSP with its nominee winning twice. Mavia Ali, who won this seat in the by-election, is SPCongress candidate this time. BSP didn’t contest then. “Muslims have options to select a candidate from their community. So, this is going to be interesting battle,” said Hasan, a labourer at Deoband.
  
  Saharanpur Gramin is set to see another candidate in former MP Mansoor Ali Khan’s son.
  
  “My son Sad Ali Khan is going to contest as an independent candidate,” said Mansoor Ali Khan of Saharanpur’s most prominent nawab family at his residence. 
