Gurgaon: The fight against the proposed   of wards of Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon will now be fought in the Punjab and Haryana high court. On Monday, Indian National Lok Dal ( ) leader and former councillor of   number 1, Rishi Raj Rana, filed a petition in the court against the recent delimitation exercise. The   of DLF Qutab Enclave, on Wednesday last, also expressed its decision to file a petition in the high court in this regard.

 Earlier this month, the Haryana government published the proposal of delimitation of   wards and it invited residents to send objections or suggestions to it by January 22. A total of 46 objections were filed. A majority of the objections were recorded from the DLF area. District officials also met the residents who filed the objections. However, the representatives, who are ready to move the high court over the matter, said they are sceptical if the suggested changes would be implemented.
 
 “The entire delimitation process has been carried out in an undemocratic manner. The   leadership ensured that all the members in the ad hoc committee that redrew the boundaries are from the party, and all of them have drawn the boundaries in a fashion that suits the party’s interest, keeping in view their chances of winning,” alleged Rana.
 
 He added, “It is a fact that all of them, or their family members, will contest in the upcoming MCG elections. Also, details such as population figure and number of voters in my ward are incorrect. The ad hoc committee has also reserved my ward for an SC/ST candidate. However, the ward does not have a significant population from the SC/ST community.” Rana said he was hoping that his case would be taken up in the next two days.
 
 Pointing out the discrepancies in the formation of the committee, Sumit Bhasker, general secretary, DLF Qutab Enclave RWA, said, “As per Section 4(2) of Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994, the ad hoc committee is supposed to be constituted as per specific rules and regulation. However, the state government bypassed the rules for their vested interests by appointing all members from a political party.”
 
 
