PUNE: The traditional bull-taming sport of Jallikattu got a new lease of life on Saturday with   promulgating an ordinance in its favour, leaving city activist Manoj Oswal aggrieved. 

 The Supreme Court in 2014 had banned the sport for using bulls as ‘performing animals’ and for cruelty based on a report of animal welfare officer Oswal. He had submitted the report before the SC after being designated observer for the court. 
 
 As a part of his task, he had studied all   between 2009 and 2013. “There are many aspects of the sport that remain hidden from public eye. This is why people do not realise the cruelty that is meted out to the animals behind the scenes,” he said.
 
 Oswal also said the thought that the ban would lead to the end of breeding of rare bull species was only a myth. “There are close to 90 lakh bulls in Tamil Nadu, of which 20 lakh bulls are slaughtered every year as they do not serve any purpose, while cows can be milked. Of this 20 lakh, only about 2,000 are registered for Jallikattu. So, stopping Jallikattu will neither affect the slaughter nor the population of bull species,” he told TOI.
 
 The activist said he intends to challenge the ordinance and amendment that removes bulls from the list of ‘performing animals’. “I am individually aggrieved by the order and I will move the apex court in my individual capacity,” Oswal said.
 
 He added, “Such an ordinance in defiance of the apex court judgment opens the door not only for other similar cases of cruelty, but will also empower states to make changes to law in their respective capacity in cases of all kinds.”
 
 
 
 
 Abuse and violations hidden away from the main arena, so they are not seen
 
 Between 200 and 400 bulls come to each venue, but the facility of pens and shelter are just symbolic, holding at the most 10-12 animals
 
 Bulls held tightly by ropes, no possibility to move even an inch to lower itself to its natural position, without food or water
 
 Bulls start queuing from 1am and are held that way till 4pm, when the event usually ends
 
 Bull is made to run by way of giving it immediate pain on sensitive parts, including the tail, nose and eyes
 
 Despite ban, people are seen giving alcohol to animals on the sly. Symbolic testing done for alcohol (actual testing done in only one arena, while it was simply a cover up at others)
 
 Parallel Jallikattu happening in areas designated as bulls yards. So instead of resting, the bull yards are the areas where the bulls get tortured the most
 
 
 
 
 Oswal on Saturday announced the launch of a website, www.jallikattuexposed.com, to showcase the reality of the traditional sport. He said the support for Jallikattu is based on perception rather than the facts of cruelty.
 
