PATNA: A day after the declaration of Bihar Teacher Eligibility Test ( ) results, over 120 examinees, whose answer sheets were declared invalid due to various reasons, blocked the road outside the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) office on Budh Marg on Friday, disrupting movement of traffic for several hours.

 Answer sheets of 11,351 examinees of the two papers – lower primary (Class I to V) and upper primary (Class VI to VIII) – were declared invalid due to several reasons, including use of whitener. However, the protestors claimed they did not use whitener in OMR sheet.
 
 “I did not use whitener or shade option more than once. Yet, my answer sheets have been declared invalid. I will apply for the scrutiny of my answer sheets. It is the last opportunity for me to clear the test as I will turn 38 next year,” Gopal Singh, one of the examinees, said. The age relaxation for general male candidate is 37 years.
 
 Another protestor wondered how his answer sheets were declared invalid although he followed all the dos and don’ts mentioned in the BTET admit card. “I’m getting anonymous call and being asked to pay Rs 50,000 to clear the test,” he alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, BSEB chairman Anand Kishor has once again warned the candidates against entertaining fake callers. “If the candidates have any doubt regarding their results, they should contact the board office. A help desk will start functioning at the board office from September 23 and students can collect scrutiny form from the desk. Candidates can also apply online for scrutiny of their answer sheets till September 30,” Kishor said, adding the students can get the copies of evaluated answer sheets under the Right to Information Act. “More than 11,100 candidates used whitener in answer sheets,” Kishor reiterated.
 
 Of the 43,794 candidates who appeared for BTET, only 17% passed. Just 16.07% candidates passed paper I, which was meant to test the eligibility for appointment as lower primary teachers and 17.84% cleared paper II, meant to assess the eligibility for appointment as upper primary teachers.
 
 
