JAIPUR: The state has been put on high alert ahead of the  . Rajasthan police headquarters (PHQ) on Wednesday said that district SPs and range IGs have been directed to keep a tight vigil to ensure that no untoward situation takes place.

 Director general of police Manoj Bhatt told TOI that though there is no state specific intelligence input from the central agencies, the state police are carrying out regular search operations. 
 
 “We have made elaborate security arrangements across the state for   celebrations. Our men are guarding all important locations of their respective districts,” Bhatt said.
 
 Security was also heightened across Jodhpur where Republic Day celebrations will take place on Thursday. It is for the first time that such celebrations will take place in Jodhpur.
 
 The sources within state intelligence told TOI that districts which share borders with poll-bound state of Punjab, have been asked to take extra efforts on January 26. “Districts near international border have been preparing for the Republic Day since last two weeks. We have been sharing real time information with the local police,” an official said.
 
 On Wednesday too, the police across the state carried out mock drills for   movements and searched hotels and dharamshalas. 
 
 “At several places, we have sent cops in plain clothes to keep an eye on miscreants, ahead of every important national festival, we keep an eye on people who have cases of public nuisance registered against them,” the official added.
 
 While the police are keeping an eye on bus stands and railway stations, the quick reaction teams (QRTs) were deployed across all major cities of Rajasthan to quickly neutralise any armed attack.
 
 “There is enhanced patrolling and surveillance on highways. There are some vulnerable areas which are being looked into. The main task would also be to ensure VVIP security on the Republic day,” the official said.
 
 The Jaipur police also held a high-level security meeting on Wednesday to discuss security arrangements. 
 
 
