JAIPUR: Rajasthan   has on Thursday asked the chief secretary to be present in the court on April 7 explain the lackadaisical approach in implementing its directions for improving the condition of the jails in the state.

 The division bench of justice M Rafique and VS Siradhana gave the directions during the hearing of the suo motu petition on the pathetic condition of the jails in the state.
 
 The court was not satisfied with the report of the superintendents of the jails and directed the director general (DG) of jails to visit the jails and cross check the report submitted by the jail superintendents and submit his own report. The court had also summoned chairman and managing director of Bharat Electronics Ltd (BHL) which has been given Rs 20 crore contract to install Jammers in the jails. The report said the jammers are not effective in controlling the use of mobile phones in the jails.
 
 The court directed amicus curie to randomly conduct surprise inspections in jails to verify the claim of the jail superintendents and report back to the court. 
 
 The high court gave 45 directions to the government covering various aspects of jail administration, including general hygiene and sanitation, vocational training, health, food and recreation. The court also proposed to set up five more Central jails in the state to decongest the existing ones.
 
 The court directions include screening of a movie every fortnight for the entertainment of the inmates. It also asked the government to sanction Rs 50,000 per annum for the purchase of sports material and sports activities to be encouraged to reduce aggression and improve mental health of inmates. In order to keep the mental health of the inmates, it asked the jail administration to introduce yoga and meditation on a regular basis.
 
 Notice to govt over Jolly LLB 2: Rajasthan High Court issued notice to the Union ministry of information and broadcasting, the producer Fox Star Studio and director Subash Kapoor over alleged derogatory depiction of lawyers and courts in the movie.
 
 The single bench of Justice   order on a petition by a lawyer  . They were asked to reply by March 30.
 
 A similar petition is pending in the Sanganeer court which will come up for hearing on Friday.
 
 ‘Form panel over patwari exam row’: Rajasthan High Court directed the state subordinate selection baord to constitute a three member committee to decide the dispute over four wrong questions in the patwari main exam paper 2016. The court direction followed one Chitralok Prajawat approached the court.   counsel for the petitioner said, the court directed the sub-ordinate selection board to constitute a committee of subject experts one each from Rajasthan University, Jai Narayan University Jodhpur and   Udaipur and get their report within three days. It directed the subordinate selection board to declare the result based on the report.
 
 
