MUMBAI: While most Indian football enthusiasts have been singing praises of the national team reaching 100 in the   ranking, coach   isn't content to say the least. "We haven't won anything or haven't qualified. Why are we getting so excited?," he said at the Andheri Sports Complex, on the sidelines of the team's training camp for the   Asian Cup qualifying match against Kyrgyz Republic.

 Try to reason with him that fans finally have something to be excited about, and the Englishman says that we should see the bigger picture. "From the time I've taken up this job in 2015, we've had a lot of success. But my greatest achievement in these two and a half years is building a team that will be around for the next 5-6 years. We're no longer relying on one player. If a player isn't able to give what the teams needs, that player will be replaced. We could never do this before. This camp has eight U-22 players, so you can get the drift," he said.
 
 The team will play Nepal in an international friendly at the Andheri Sports Complex on June 6. The match against Kyrgyz Republic is slated to be played at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru on June 13.
 
 'Suggested   be a knockout'
 
 The long Indian football season has taken a toll on the players. After the  , the players played the I-League and immediately after that, they had to play the Federation Cup. As a result, players are not in their best shape physically. India talisman   is out with at Grade 1 hamstring tear.   too injured his hamstring. And rightfully,   isn't too pleased about it. "The players had to play three games in five day, that too in 45 degrees heat. How can you recover after that? I had suggested the tournament be a knockout, but because of prior commitments, they couldn't. Maybe next year we'll have a knockout.
 
 While   is definitely out of the Nepal tie, he could just make it back in time for the Kyrgyz Republic game. "I won't play him is he's not 100 per cent fit. We would love to have him, but we must also realize that we will have to play without him some day. As long as he is fit and does what I expect of him, he will always make the team," Constantine said.
 
 Kyrgyz game will be the test
 
 India's qualifier against Kyrgyz Republic will be a kind of a litmus test for the team in transition. "They are a physically stronger side so we'll have to be good at defending set plays. We need to be focused even when the ball goes out. They will be a tough team, but so are we."
 
