DHARAMSHALA: The self-effacing   is an anachronism in the glitzy, showbiz-fuelled, endorsement-obsessed rat-race that is Indian cricket. It's worth polling how many cricket-loving teenagers have his poster on their boardroom walls.

 Indeed, the fine art of image-making seems to have passed Pujara by .He isn't Virat Kohli, ruling a million hearts and used to blank-cheque wielding brand managers lining up at his doorstep. As chasing trends go, Pujara is that most uncool of things: a cricketer without an IPL contract. He doesn't even play ODIs and T20s.
 
 Yet here he is, in spite of everything, managing to be that rarest of breeds: a modern Indian Test batting colossus who has just won his fourth Man of the Match award. Who has just scored his second double century against Australia and 'saved' a Test, a subtle art at the best of times. Who has just faced 525 balls in Ranchi, the longest innings ever in terms of balls faced by an Indian batsman. Whose day begins at around 4 am with some yoga. Who retires religiously to bed a bit after 8.30 pm. Who sticks to his post-match routines and diet no matter what. And who is too shy to speak about the laudable   move to upgrade his central contract, in a promotion to the premium Grade A which will fetch him Rs 2 crore, four times the amount he was getting paid earlier. 
 
 “See it's good to be recognized, but at the same time we are in the middle of a series and I don't really want to think about the contract,” Pujara said on Thursday. “We have an important game coming up and I would like to focus on that.”
 
 Indeed, Pujara is good at staying “in the zone”, that favourite mental playground of top sportsmen. It's almost a meditative state, as he admits. “I am in that zone where I know what to do, how to focus, how to switch off and switch back again. When it comes to patience, it is all hard work. I started playing at the age of eight and played my first game for my state at 13. I am in that zone where things are happening for me...because of my experience, because I know how to do things, how to continue concentrating.”
 
 It can't be easy, being a Cheteshwar Pujara. The job requires monk-like devotion; a blank canvas, as Pujara says. “I don't really think when I am in the middle, I try and keep my mind blank. It's the experience. I've been doing it in domestic cricket for a long period of time. I just believe in preparing well.”
 
 That's a cue most aspiring cricketers would do well to take. And with every knock, every marathon effort, every daily routine, a few more posters will go up in those bedroom walls, and Cheteshwar Pujara would have enlightened a few more young minds, for there is no better role model in Indian cricket today.
 
