CHENNAI: P R G Arun Kumar, the   MLA from Coimbatore who abstained from the trust vote on   seeking to be neutral a fortnight ago, had a change of mind and joined the   camp two days back.

 So did former minister   and ex-MLA from Omalur Palkappi Krishnan, who extended support to OPS few days ago. As OPS said, the battle over grabbing the seat of chief minister might be over but definitely not the war to capture the party . There seems to be an intense competition between the two factions of the AIADMK in wooing district committees, functionaries and MLAs of the party .
 
 In the past few days, former chief minister O Panneerselvam's residence is full of cadres from various districts. They in turn fan out to their respective regions mobilizing cadres for the March 8 hunger strike. OPS hopes to make the protest demanding the truth behind the death of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, a show of strength.
 
 OPS meets all these cadres personally , receives shawls and sometimes gifts one to them as well. He poses for photographs, selfies and has a chat with them.
 
 “We were asked to come and meet OPS sir today .Around 500 of us from Salem and   districts are here to meet OPS and S Semmalai,“ said M Maruthakasi, a cadre from a village in Salem district who visited his house on Saturday last.
 
 The same day , TTV Dinakaran was holding a similar meeting with office-bearers from Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai and   districts at the AIADMK headquarters.
 
 AIADMK sources said Dinakaran spoke to all district secretaries personally and has asked them to talk to all the defectors.
 
 But for much of the party functionaries it is political and economic calculations that are at play rather than loyalty for the party. It is evident from the fact that all those with postings hold on to the   camp while former functionaries, ex-MLAs and those sidelined are moving to the OPS faction. Cadre sentiment though is by and large against Sasikala. Of late, posters of the AIADMK have appeared without her image.
 
