 
  MUMBAI:  , chairman of Tata Sons, gave the first glimpse of his plan for the $104-billion conglomerate by advocating “group leverage” as a “force multiplier,” to chart the next phase of growth. 

 The event is held every year on July 29, to commemorate the birthday of former Tata Sons chairman, JRD Tata, but this year’s event was important as it was Chandra’s debut town hall, as chairman of the group. The event was more muted unlike in the past few years and some said it followed the regimen practised by his predecessor   of focusing on JRD QV awards and doing away with strategy presentations. But it had Chandra’s signature on it when he spoke about the present leadership inheriting a “great brand.” 
 
 “We have to live up to our byline of leadership with trust,” Chandra told mandarins of the   which last October saw a coup of sorts when the then chairman   was unceremoniously sacked from Tata Sons, the main holding company including its leading operating companies. The venue was the main hall of National Council for Performing Arts and Chandra kept his speech short and took questions. 
 
 “It was a pristine JRD QV award function as used to happen when RNT was chairman,” a senior executive who attended the function said.
 
 Chandra spoke about the perceived strengths in the 149-year old group. “I believe the most important thing that can make a huge impact for all of us is what I call as Group Leverage.” He pushed for individual operating companies to “leverage each other’s strengths and collaborate in a manner that creates a force multiplier for the entire group.” 
 
 There were about 100 initiatives underway in the group, Chandra told them and revealed that the group will focus on a simplistic and digitally collaborative approach to build businesses that met the needs of the nation and community.  , noted historian, was the keynote speaker and told   later that his 40-minute speech revolved around, “JRD Tata, the patriot, philanthropist and institutional builder.”
 
