MUMBAI: In a significant order, a   has directed a juvenile in conflict with law--and found   a five-year-old to spend one year at a  .

 Refuting the plea of the applicant to suspend the stay as he was now a major, the court said, “Only because BJ (former juvenile and applicant) has completed 18 years of age it cannot be said that he is not required the proper guidance, training for avoiding of criminal activities. The case which is beneficial to the BJ needs to be completed for the benefit of himself,“ the judge said.
 
 The court also said that during the one year, the applicant needs to be kept in proper custody in a proper disciplinary manner.
 
 The applicant had moved the sessions court after the juvenile justice board pronounced its verdict in July 2013. Seven witnesses were examined before the board and the applicant had pleaded not guilty . The board had said that the applicant was to be released on probation of good conduct and placed under the care of a “fit institution, namely Borstal School, Nashik for the good behaviour and wellbeing of the juvenile for one year with a direction to provide him necessary vocational guidance and counselling during such period.“ In the court, public prose cutor Sumesh Panjwani had said that the victim's father had registered an FIR.The father had alleged that when he arrived home on the night of October 3, 2010, he found a mob gathered outside his house. His wife then informed him that when their daughter was playing outside the house, the applicant who was around 13 at that time sexually assaulted her.
 
 The mother saw that the child's private parts had been bleeding.
 
 The sessions court relied on the victim's father's testimony . Refusing to interfere with the finding of the board, the sessions court said that there was not a single word on record suggesting any rivalry that would prompt the father to file a false report and to depose falsely. The court further referred to the post-incident conduct where the father of the applicant had slapped him in front of the victim's father. The victim's father had gone to their house to confront the applicant. The court said, “There is no explanation to this specific evidence why the BJ was beaten by his father in presence of complainant and others.“
 
