HYDERABAD: Candidates attending a job mela at   (LFJC) near   staged a rasta roko on Sunday as they were not happy about the jobs on offer.

 The mela was organised by   (ASF) and Getmyjob.co.in. Thousands of job aspirants, who had paid `200 registration fee online, turned up at the venue early on Sunday. There was spot registration too. “About 10,000 job aspirants turned up at the venue and we sent a team headed by an SI to the venue,“ Uppal inspector Y Narasimha Reddy said. Though 56 human resource (HR) managers from 20 companies including some   like   and   had turned up to conduct interviews, the aspirants were not happy as all the MNCs listed in the job advertisement did not participate in the event.
 
 “Many aspirants were BTech, MTech and MBA graduates. They had expected jobs that will pay up to Rs 1 lakh salary, but the companies were trying to recruit mainly security guards and te le-callers at BPOs and KPOs,“ the inspector said.
 
 When the company representatives started conducting interviews, some candidates picked up an argument with the organiser, Nemali Kumar. One of the candidates sought a refund of the registration fee. As the number of agitated aspirants rose, police intervened and the organisers managed to refund the registration fee of some candidates. However, by 11 am, Kumar sensed that he was surrounded by too many angry people and left the venue. At 12 noon, the agitated aspirants, who came from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, staged a rasta roko on the Uppal-Habsiguda road for 20 minutes halting traffic. Police convinced them to call off the protest.
 
 One of the aspirants, K Raju, lodged a complaint with police. “The organiser cheated us by saying MNCs were coming for recruitment,“ Raju said in his complaint. The organiser told police that he expected a turnout of only about 500 job aspirants. “The company, which promised to organise the crowd, failed to fulfil the promise and the number of volunteers hired at the last minute were not sufficient,“ Kumar told police. Police registered a case against Kumar under sections 188, 406 and 420 of the IPC. Kumar has been taken into custody.
 
