PANAJI: To ensure the number of emergency deaths due to cardiac-related problems are brought down, health minister   announced the signing of an MoU with   (STEMI) India. The organization, he said, has a protocol to handle cardiac emergency cases where such cases will be dealt with at the point of contact through the GVK 108 service.

 Doctors will be trained to operate within the protocol he said, adding that it will help increase the window period after a cardiac attack and give treatment to a patient. “The whole idea is to save lives and if the window period is extended it will help saving lives of patients,” he said, adding that significant damage happens to a patient’s heart if the heart problem is not addressed.
 
 “The problem is all casualty cases are referred to medicine and not directly to cardiology.” These, he said, should immediately be looked at by the cardiac team, he said, adding that a proposal has gone to the chief minister to add three more cardiac consultants to the cardiology wing so that 24 x7 services are made available for patients. 
 
 New fleet of 108 ambulance with trained personnel including motorcycle ambulances will be pressed into service by the end of June and first week of July, he said.
 
 He also promised to address the issue of shortage of technicians at GMC’s wet lab where blood testing is carried out. The contracts of those technicians whose contract has lapsed will need to be renewed he said, adding that after the technicians are in place, doctors at   will not be permitted to refer blood analysis outside GMC. The file to this regard has already gone to the government and will be cleared at the earliest, he added.
 
 “I’m not going to privatize anything. At the most, we can outsource a few facilities with the consent of the government and with unanimity among the cabinet,” he said.
 
 The blood bank will also be strengthened where stem cell banking, one of the priorities of the government, will be introduced. All the other initiatives taken up by the health department in the past will be put back on track including free insulin, new born baby screening, a diabetes registry etc he said. Oncology surgeons will also be brought in to the hospital.
 
 The Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana will also be relooked at to ensure that it will not affect the functioning of GMC, Asilo hospital or the new district hospital. He said he has moved another file to enforce the one year bond for medical college students, but only if this doesn’t come in the way of their studies. “If they get admission for any other course, we will automatically relieve them and not enforce the bond. But, after completion of postgraduation they will have to come back to GMC and complete the bond,” he said, adding that there is no committee that will review this.
 
 
