Deepika's mother asks her son about making bio data for marriage bureau. Her mother asks her to bake cooker cake so that she can send it to the owner of marriage bureau. Deepika's brother photoshops her photo in order to make her look slim but   says this is not right.
 
  On the other hand   joins yoga class in the morning but is unable to join because of high fees. He dreams of dancing with Sarika who teaches yoga at the camp.
  
  Sarika asks her friend Deepika, who is busy eating, do some yoga asans but she is not interested in it. Deepika comes to know of Piyush being there so she runs to thank him but instead comes across a person who she thinks is the same guy from Bareily.
  
  She gets scared and runs away from there but is relieved to discover that he is not the same guy. There is something wrong that happened to her in Bareily but it hasn't been revealed in the show.
  
  Later, Deepika's younger version comes to life, whom she keeps talking to over and over. Her younger version calls her 'darpok' but she says she is fine.
  
  Sarika says she is always worried about Deepika.
  
  
 
  
  Piyush's mother is at marriage bureau office when Deepika arrives and she hands over her new bio data and cooker cake to her. Deepika says she wants to ber accepted by someone who loves her for being she is.
  
  Janaki offers the cooker cake to Piyush's mother and back home they relish it. Piyush speaks about marrying Sarika but doesn't reveal her name and keeps enjoying his piece of cake.
  
  Piyush's younger brother Tusshar fakes his illness to avoid going to school. His father gets angry and taunts his sons especially Piyush for not doing anything and stops them for eating breakfast.
  
  Deepika's mother wants to check her weight but she makes excuses and runs away with her father.
  
  Tusshar is being scared by a few goons since he hasn't paid their money, which he taken for betting.
  
  Piyush is at his father's shop but he wants to run away from there for the yoga classes. He is helped by their servant to do so.
  
  Keep watching the space for all the updates.
  
  
 
