BATHINDA: It was Badal, Badal, and Badal all the way in the Malwa region of Punjab on Thursday, while filing nomination papers for the February 4 assembly elections. The three Badals -- chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his son and  , and his nephew and former Punjab finance minister   -- chose the same day to file nomination papers from different assembly constituencies. 

 Another Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also filed papers as a covering candidate to both her father-in-law and husband Sukhbir. 
 
 Badal filed nomination papers from his traditional Lambi assembly constituency at the office of returning officer in Malout, Sukhbir filed his papers from Jalalabad assembly constituency, and Manpreet in Bathinda Urban assembly segment.
 
 Badal has won consecutive four elections from Lambi in 1997, 2002, 2007, and 2012, whereas Sukhbir has won twice from Jalalabad in the 2009 byelection and 2012 general election. Manpreet had won four times and lost in 2012 from Gidderbaha, when he parted ways with SAD and formed his own People’s Party of Punjab. This time, he is contesting for the first time from Bathinda Urban segment.
 
 Badal and Sukhbir had kept the people guessing about contesting from their assembly constituencies and announced their candidature quite late. Shoe thrower Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh is challenging Badal from Lambi on AAP ticket and AAP MP Bhagwant Mann is challenging Sukhbir from Jalalabad. Congress is yet to announce candidates from both the assembly constituencies. It has announced candidates for 100 constituencies but is still to decide on 17.
 
 Manpreet contested his first election from Gidderbaha in the 1995 bypoll on SAD ticket, and went on to win in 1997, 2002, and 2007. “We both will win our respective seats, and Akali Dal will form the government for the third straight term in Punjab,” said Sukhbir, while accompanying his father in filing papers from Lambi assembly. 
 
 “People are fed up of this misrule of 10 years. People are looking towards Congress, and it is only Congress which will end the 10 years of misrule of the Badal family, during which they have filled their coffers,” said Manpreet, after filing nomination papers from Bathinda Urban. 
 
