HYDERABAD: The Arts College building of   is a marvel in granite. It has its own architectural style and elegance and stands as one of the best examples of what has now come to be known as  . Perhaps, it was the last grand building constructed by Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan. All major landmarks including the high court, Osmania hospital, Moazzam Jahi market,   (City College), and   ( ) were constructed earlier.

 The Arts College building is the culmination of the grand initiative of the Nizam, who launched the City Improvement Board in 1912. The construction of new buildings for the general improvement of the city ultimately resulted in the evolution of a new architectural expression ­ Osmanian style.
 
 A blend of the Qutub Shahi and Mughal architecture, it has local elements and a touch of Ellora and Ajanta architecture. The use of granite as well as brick in mortar or lime is a new feature, says Fazalullah Khan, who holds a doctorate in the architecture of palaces of Hyderabad. In fact, the Nizam had declared, during the inaugural ceremony of the Arts College building, that it was one of the greatest achievements of his regime. “The Osmanian architectural style is characterized mainly by three features. They have an onion-shaped dome, heavier at the bottom and tapering upwards with a relatively large capital.The second feature is pointed arches but generally without an ogee arch. The third important feature is the large rectangular kiosk with a domical cupo la that decorates the corners of the para pet. The eaves pro ject on all sides of the kiosk,“ Khan ex plains.
 
 Archaeologist Ghulam Yazdani in his writings in 1940s coined the term `Osman Shahi' style ­ “modern in conception and planning yet retaining traditio nal details based on the old architecture of Hyderabad“.
 
 The Arts College building with 164 vast rooms and a plinth of 2.5 lakh square feet is a granite structure designed by Belgian architect Monsieur Jasper.
 
 The building is also a living testimony to a clear harmony of the most beautiful features of Hindu and Islamic architecture.“The main entrance is an immense portal in a vertical oblong, standing out from the façade and rising higher than the wings of the structure. The Islamic character blends perfectly with the rock-cut architecture of the Deccan, inspired by Buddhist cave architecture. The 24 ornamental pillars in the central Durbar hall are a superb representation of Kakatiyan architectural style.
 
