JALANDHAR: RSS-affiliate Rashtariya Sikh Sangat has urged the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) not to defend the wrongs done by the   government and should rather take the “pain” expressed through a motion passed by Ontario provincial assembly on April 6, which recognized the anti-Sikh violence of November 1984 across India as ‘genocide’, positively.

 “From the very beginning,   never considered the massacre of November 1984 as riots as in riots two groups (communities), driven by hatred or reaction, are involved in attacking each other, but there is no example that any group of Sikhs attacked others after operation Blue Star. Even during happenings of October-November 1984, there was no instance of Sikh groups attacking those who were lynching Sikhs,” said Sikh sangat president  .
 
 “It has also clearly come out in investigations of different commissions and committees that it was a one-sided massacre executed at the behest of a party,” he said.
 
 Different Sikh groups and even   (AAP) have welcomed the motion passed by the Ontario assembly, which was moved by Liberal member of provincial parliament (MPP) Harinder Malhi and was supported by MPPs of different parties.
 
 However, MEA issued a statement “rejecting” the resolution and terming it “misguided”, “based on a limited understanding of India, its constitution, society, ethos, rule of law and the judicial process.” It provided ammunition to AAP to put BJP alliance partner SAD in the dock, which reacted to the issue after remaining silent for three days, even as SGPC and DSGMC welcomed the motion on April 7.
 
 Sangh affiliate also recalled that even Union home minister Rajnath Singh had termed the massacre as “genocide” when he attended a function to distribute cheques of compensation in Tilak Vihar (in December 2014).
 
 “Our sister Harinder Kaur Malhi’s motion manifested this pain considering that a large number of Sikhs are settled in Canada and they feel strongly connected to India,” Gill said in a statement issued on Monday.
 
 “We shall speak to the Union government and MEA to bring the entire issues raised in the Ontario assembly motion and at the same time we request the Canada government not to interfere in internal matters of a sovereign country,” he said.
 
 Rashtariya Sikh Sangat national president also urged the Sikhs that the happenings of 1984 should be taken as a massacre at the behest of one party and it should not be taken against the Government of India. He said the current leaders of the country including the Prime Minster and Union home minister had been repeatedly saying that Sikhs played a crucial role in protecting the honour of the country and Union government was also celebrating the 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. 
 
