CHENNAI: Puzhal police apprehended a TNEB employee, who is under suspension for slapping his assistant engineer, for committing a series of robberies for over two years with the help of an autorickshaw driver.

 Police identified the man as S Mahesh, 56, who was placed under suspension in 2000. Mahesh, a former foreman, was arrested based on a complaint from Sundaram, who was robbed of two gold rings and cash a week ago.
 
 Mahesh’s modus operandi was to hire an autorickshaw as early as 5.30 am every day and target elderly men and women.
 
 He intercepted Sundaram, a resident of Perambur, who was on his way to Perambur Railway hospital. Although Sundaram refused Mahesh’s offer to drop him, the latter compelled him to board the vehicle. Mahesh then took Sundaram to Kathirvedu and at knife point took the rings and Rs 1,800 cash from him. Police refused to accept his complaint in Sembium and T V K Nagar so Sundaram filed a complaint at Puzhal police station, where a team headed by inspector S Ramesh Babu and sub inspector Mariappan checked   footage from different spots to nab the auto driver S Sudhakaran, 40, of Aminjikarai.
 
 “The key suspect did not share any phone number or address to the auto driver, though he offered a share in the booty,” said an investigating officer.
 
 “His job is to wait near a tea shop, where Mahesh, boarded the autorickshaw at 5.30 am,” he added.
 
 Sudhakaran told the passengers that his was a share auto, in which Mahesh pretended to be one of the passengers, and offered to drop them for a minimal sum. They chose routes with poor bus frequency.
 
 Mahesh sold the valuables to a pawn broker and covered petrol costs for the auto in addition to giving Sudhakaran Rs 500 a day.
 
 Police set a trap for Mahesh and waited near the tea shop for two days. He finally turned up on the third day when police caught hold of him. Interrogations revealed that he had robbed women in Porur, Otteri, Aminjikarai and Red Hills. Mahesh and Sudhakaran have been remanded in judicial custody.
 
