MUMBAI: The 26-year-old Dongri resident, arrested for rash and negligent driving and killing two persons, had tried to overtake a private bus when he lost control and met with an accident on Thursday. Ehtesham Kapadia was tracked down to his residence after police went through the vehicle papers and got details of its owner from the regional transport office (RTO). Kapadia’s medical examination showed he was not drunk at the time of the mishap.

 Kapadia, who runs a travel agency in Byculla, had planned an outing with his girlfriend. Kapadia, who was unable for comments, was produced before the   court on Friday and released on  . “Eyewitnesses said Kapadia tried to overtake the bus when he lost control and the car hit two   repairing a hoarding on the bridge,” Bandra police senior inspector Pandit Thakare said.
 
 On Thursday morning, according to Kapadia’s statement, he left his residence along with his girlfriend to Thane, where he completed his work and after spending some time left for Bandra Bandstand. “From there, they left for Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL) before Kapadia drove towards Jogeshwari to drop her home. He lost control on reaching the junction. Kapadia said it was the second time he had taken his friend’s car,” police said.
 
 The car first hit the labourers and then fell off the bridge. “It hit a tree, which slowed down its fall, before landing on the road, killing Sandeep Gaud and Lala Bansi. Kapadia and his girlfriend came out of the car with the help of locals. They took an auto-rickshaw and left the spot,” police said.
 
 Five workers were welding the hoarding on the north-bound stretch of WEH, near Bandra (W). In the complaint, a witness, Vinod Gaund, said, “Four of them were behind the tempo and Mohammad Shakil was managing traffic on the stretch below the bridge when the car was at high speed and the driver could not control it in time. It rammed into the tempo, flinging me and Bansi off the bridge. It then hurtled 20 feet below.”
 
 Kapadia has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving), 304 (A) (causing death by negligence), 338 (grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and under the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
