KOCHI: The city has pinned a lot of hopes on the  , with   and the   lining up plans to attract even more  .   is viewing the upcoming event as a long-term investment that will bolster the sector's fortunes.

 “Rather than the immediate flow of tourists for the World Cup, the mega event is expected to promote tourism in the coming years. Kochi will become a more familiar name among tourists coming to India. Now you know why countries compete to host international events like Olympics,“ said CEO of CGH Earth group Jose Dominic.
 
 State's nodal officer for the event, APM Mohammed Hanish said authorities will join hands to make it a grand event.“Brazil, Spain, Italy and Germany teams are playing in Kochi and tourists from across the globe will fly down to the city. Add six teams, officials and members of international media who cover the event and the number of international citizens would come to around 500.Fans and domestic tourists flying down will add to this total. We will chart out proposals to make the event a tourism fest,“ he said.
 
 Tourism department said that the machinery would work in full swing once the order is given. “We foresee a huge tourist flow, both domestic and international. We will rollout tourist information centres and help desks at major destinations. We have prototype of the action plan we used during National Games,“ said an official.
 
 The tourism industry has been witnessing a dull phase for the past three years.
 
 “Now, the volume of business has come down (20%) compared to 2014-15. French holidays begin on July 15 and we can expect a steady inflow of tourists from Italy and Spain.Most of them visit Kochi and Kerala. Most hotels haven't got many bookings this year,“ said Antony Pius, an authorized travel agent.
 
 But, Dominic said the introduction of GST will affect tourism sector now.
 
 “Earlier, the liquor policy of the UDF government had affected the sector. Later, the state government revised it and gave the sector a push. Now, GST has become an impediment as the new rate for services at airconditioned hotels have risen to 28%,“ he said.
 
 
