As a boy of fourteen, sculptor Shreehari Bhosle painted road dividers and billboards. He’s worked as a house painter and designed Ganpati mandals. His first clay sculptures were fashioned by the side of the road below a jamun tree. Now at 38, his name is etched on a plaque below the prestigious black horse installation at  . “I was passionate about this project from the start,” says Bhosle, a self-taught artist. “From the time I was a child, I’ve wanted to make a big statue that generations of artists after me would admire.” 

 It’s this passion that convinced the Kala Ghoda Association, that commissioned the Rs 50 lakh project, to bet on a young, unknown sculptor. “He had a fire in him,” says architect Alfaz Miller, whose firm, ABM Architects, designed the surrounding landscape and the granite pedestal. “Even before the first meeting, he had made a small 2.5ft mock-up of the horse.” 
 
 The city’s art district, which hosts the popular Kala Ghoda Festival, gets its name from a bronze equestrian statue of the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII), which graced the precinct till 1965. The original sculpture was moved to Byculla’s Rani Baug in a midnight operation after the Samyukta   warned the government that it would forcefully remove the statue on Independence Day. It was replaced by an equestrian statue of the Maratha King Shivaji, which later galloped off to Gateway of India. 
 
 It was Kala Ghoda Festival director   who came up with the idea of returning the black horse to the art district. The project, which was proposed in February 2016, got resounding support from the BMC. However, the heritage committee was concerned that placing the horse in the same location as the equestrian statue of the late monarch might “distort history” and confuse future generations. Thus a different location and orientation was chosen for the 2.5-tonne sculpture, which was envisioned as a “young, riderless, energetic horse”. 
 
 In order to meet the December 31 deadline, Bhosle used the metal casting technique, which involves creating a clay model, then a fibre glass mold, then a fibre glass model and then sand mold press casting the bronze sculpture in pieces, which are later welded together. Sculptor  , who came on board as a consultant and has designed the dolphins near Worli’s MA Podar Hospital and the INS Vikrant installation at Lion’s Gate, overlooked the project and occasionally tweaked the design. However, he says that Bhosle did 98% of the work.
 
 
