KOLKATA: On Rabindranath Tagore’s 156th birth anniversary, Visva-Bharati has decided to pay tribute to some of the most talented women of the   household, who are pioneers of societal change in 19th century Bengal. A museum — Thakurbarir Kalyani-ra — has come up inside Rabindra Bhavan in Visva-Bharati to celebrate at least 25 of these women whose achievements were not well documented all this while.

  Interestingly, in most of cases it was Tagore who was a catalyst to help them achieve their greatness.
 
 Starting with Tagore’s mother Sarada Devi, the museum takes visitors through the lives of his sisters, sisters-in-law, daughters and nieces who thought ahead of their times. 
 
 The environment of free thought within the household was pioneered by Tagore’s sister-in-law, Gyanadanandini Devi, who was the country’s first woman fashion designer — she designed the modern way of wearing the saree, accompanied with the chemise- jacket. Together with Tagore, she started ‘Balak’ magazine, converted two popular fairy tales into plays and regularly wrote essays for ‘Bharati’ magazine.
 
 Two of Tagore’s elder sisters, Soudamini Devi and  , were at that time considered to be equally good writers. While the former translated Hafez, wrote a treatise on father   and penned songs, with Tagore dedicating his ‘Bouthakur-anir Haat’ to her, the latter was the first novelist of the Tag-ore household. 
 
 Among the others who have been included in the exhibition are Tagore’s sisters-in-law Kadambari Devi and Prafullamoyee Devi, his wife Mrinalini, daughter-in-law Pratima Devi, nieces Indira Devi Chowdhurani and  , and sister Barna Kumari Devi.
 
 “As we delved deep into the lives of these brilliant women, we were amazed at their depth and their contribution to modern Bengal. Very little had been known about them so far and this is our tribute to Tagore this year. However, this is just the beginning and we will keep adding to the collection,” said Visva-Bharati VC Swapan Kumar Dutta.
 
