After producing 72 films and winning numerous National Awards under his banner Percept Picture Company, Shailendra Singh is now looking forward to his next innings in the world of entertainment — making short movies and directing full-length feature films. “In the past, I took up some of the biggest challenges in Bollywood and created a niche for myself in the industry by producing movies like 'Firaaq' and 'Kanchivaram', which were stories that had a social impact. It gave me a high. But that journey has ended,” says Shailendra. In a quick chat with BT, he talks about how he is back in the business with his new film studio, the story of his upcoming directorial 'Apsara' and more.  Shailendra is currently in a celebratory mood as his company Long Story Short Films, which has made mini movies like 'Sexaholics' and 'Techsex' among others, has garnered a large number of views and subscribers online. The stories, written and directed by Shailendra, have a social message. He reveals why he has embarked on this new journey. “Nowadays, people consume content on their smartphones and it has to be short, crisp and edgy. There isn’t any relief of half-a-dozen songs, so the script has to be intense and gripping. It’s more complex than making a full-length feature film,” he says. Shailendra believes that short content has the power to reach a larger audience. He adds, “Mainstream actors like Manoj Bajpayee and Raveena Tandon are also getting into it because of the visibility it offers. We want to expand, get more artistes and create a talent pool for the company. Going forward, we’d also like other short films to be showcased on our platform.” It’s not just his short film journey that’s got the director-producer excited. He is once again making his foray into Bollywood with his upcoming directorial venture, 'Apsara', which has been shot in Varanasi. “I am back in the business with a studio called Bollywood4Good. Our first movie, 'Apsara', is about devadasis. It takes inspiration from films like 'Pakeezah', 'Umrao Jaan', Utsav', Lal Patthar and 'Kamasutra'. Though it’s a period drama, it’s very relevant in today’s times. I love the conflict between sensuality, romance, culture and tradition.” He is also looking for projects to produce. “I want to make films where the concept is bigger than the cast and budget,” he says. Ask Shailendra if he’s nervous about venturing into the industry again, given all the competition around and he says, “Not really. But I feel like I am starting all over again in Bollywood. I am a newcomer who has a lot of experience. Today, at 50, I am an interesting package of energy and knowledge!”