SHIMLA: Giving another jolt to former BCCI chief and current Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) president  , the state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to cancel the agreement dated May 5, 2012 between the youth services and sports department and HPCA to lease out the outdoor stadium at Nurpur in Kangra.

 The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister   in Shimla. It was during the previous BJP regime headed by the then chief minister   that the Cabinet had granted approval to lease out the Nurpur stadium owned by the state government to HPCA for operation and activities for a period of 30 years.
 
 HPCA had to develop this stadium by creating required facilities. Sources said the government decided to cancel the agreement citing that no basic facility was created in this stadium.
 
 In other decisions, the Cabinet approved to rationalize rate of tax of AGT on lime stone and fly ash, which are raw material of finished goods, by reducing it to 25% as per the budget announcement by the chief minister. This would give major relief to the industries which are paying taxes both on the transportation of raw material and as well as on finished goods.
 
 The Cabinet gave nod to lease out government land in favour of Himachal Pradesh City Transport and Bus Stand Management & Development Authority to pave way for the construction of bus stand at Sunni in Shimla rural constituency.
 
 It also decided to frame the Himachal Pradesh Right to Fair and Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation, and Resettlement (Compensation, Rehabilitation, and Resettlement & Development Plan) Rules, 2016.
 
 The Cabinet decided to create new patwar circles –– Bataad-Galoo in Jubbal tehsil in Shimla district; Kandi in Thunag tehsil in Mandi district; Ribba, Rakcham and Namgaya in Moorang Tehsil; Sangla and Pooh in Kinnaur district –– and create posts of patwaris for the all the above patwar circles.
 
 It gave its nod for opening primary health centres at Kharapathar and Bholar in Jubbal tehsil along with creation of three posts each of medical officers, pharmacists and class IV employees.
 
 It also decided to create three posts of senior assistants in the ayurveda department, one for each zonal office, by way of promotion and three posts of junior office assistants (IT) to be filled on a contractual basis.
 
 The Cabinet gave its approval to fill five posts of peon in transport department. Approval was given for the creation and filling up of 20 junior office assistants (IT) on a contractual basis and filling five vacant posts of clerks through LDR.
 
 It also approved to convert 12 posts of office in-charge-cum-superintendent/manager to that of junior office assistants (IT) on a contractual basis and creation and filling of 12 posts of labour welfare officers (on contract basis), four posts of data entry operators, four posts of chowkidars and four posts of sweepers (part time) on outsourcing basis in HP Building Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
 
 A decision was taken to fill one post of personal assistant in the department of information and technology. It was decided to fill up four posts of secretariat/supporting staff for State Resource Centre for Women.
 
 Approval was given to fill 18 posts of skilled grafters in the horticulture department through direct recruitment on a contractual basis.
 
