Nagpur: President Ram Nath Kovind will be just some meters away from Smruti Bhavan, Reshimbagh, during his maiden visit to the city, but he is not scheduled to visit the Hedgewar Smarak. The President’s official programme does not mention a visit to the RSS founder’s memorial, a must-visit location for all RSS and BJP members. Kovind, a RSS swayamsewak, will dedicate Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Suresh Bhat auditorium adjacent to Smruti Bhavan compound wall at 4.15pm on Friday. Many BJP activists were expecting that Kovind will pay tributes to RSS founder Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar at Smruti Bhavan since he is coming to the neighbourhood. However, NMC sources told TOI one of the office bearers inquired with the President’s office about Kovind’s visit to Smruti Bhavan a couple of days ago. “NMC got in touch with the office of the President for his schedule. A staffer at Rashtrapati Bhavan told the NMC office bearer there was no formal invitation letter from RSS or Dr Hedgewar Smarak Samiti for the President to visit Smruti Bhavan. This invitation is required as part of protocol,” sources said. It is common practice for RSS swayamsewaks and BJP leaders to visit and pay tributes at Hedgewar Smarak at Smruti Bhavan during a visit to the city. Many noted industrialists too have visited the memorial over the last few years. However, the then President APJ Abdul Kalam too had not visited Smruti Bhavan during his tenure as nation’s first citizen. Kalam later visited Smruti Bhavan in 2014. Even PM Narendra Modi did not visit Smruti Bhavan during his maiden visit to the city in September 2014. Shridhar Gadge, vice president of Dr Hedgewar Smarak Samiti, told TOI there was no system at Smruti Bhavan to invite anyone. “It is a memorial place and people come as per their wish and devotion. I did not get any information whether the President is coming or not to Smruti Bhavan,” he said. Rajesh Loya, RSS city chief, said it totally depends upon the President or any person to visit or not visit Smruti Bhavan. “The RSS did not invite the President since there was no event. As far as Smruti Bhavan is concerned, it is a memorial where people come of their own wish and devotion, and it is not a formality,” he said. Meanwhile, Kovind’s scheduled helicopter trip to Ramtek and Kamptee has been cancelled. The President’s final schedule mentioned he would travel to all these places by road. It is learnt that the helipads made at Kamptee and Deekshabhoomi were not satisfactory as per the pilots and security teams. Also, weather conditions were not proper for these temporary helipads, sources said.