 
  
 
 While most Amdavadis are blessed with an almost in-born business acumen, no one can deny the fact that the business savvy minds of Amdavadis can be stimulated by food and paisa-vasool shopping options. After all who doesn’t love to indulge in some pocket friendly shopping moments and eating out? After November 8, 2016’s DeMo, businesses at every scale and at every level took a hit. With ‘going cashless’ being the need of the hour, the average Amdavadi has started using various modes of electronic payments. However, the question here is that in this moment of cash not easily being available are shop keepers actually using e-wallets and are open to e-payments? We find out more:
 
 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been urging Indians to go   and opt for digital modes of payment. Surprisinly in his home state, there are many street shop-food laari owners who are dealing only in cash. “We only accept cash payments and haven’t switched to other modes of e-payments yet. The main reason is even after the whole demonetisation situation, most customers still prefer to pay with cash,” says Ujabhai, a cloth vendor at Law Garden adding, “Initially we did try using electronic modes, but there were times when due to connectivity issues, the apps would work slow or completely shut down. And while the payment gets delayed we lost on other customers just to get right the e-payments.”
 
 However, the heartening news is that a lot of laaris are open to varied modes of electronic payments. Rahul Vyas who owns a food laari shares, “We keep both options open. Also, post DeMo, most customers are keen on paying their bills through e-payments. In case of cash transactions, getting change for new notes is difficult for us.”
 
 One of the biggest reasons why many shop keepers are still stuck to receiving payments in cash is because many of them do not have proper bank accounts. The money in these e-wallets apps are usually transferred either through debit cards or are connected to one’s bank account. Niravbhai Bhutiya shares, “We still have no proper bank accounts so how can someone expect us to have e-wallets? Also we have been dealing in cash payments for years and wish to stick to this method.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Although the situation has improved a lot since November 8, 2016 (post DeMo) there are many who do not want to spend their cash on small trivial things and are now saving cash for contingencies. Monica Shingala, a city based professional admits, “Now when we come for shopping, we come with limited cash. Also the number of places that accept e-payments has increased. There are high-end food stalls at various places in the city that accept e-payments. While it is a little slow, soon even   will become cashless.”
 
 And in the midst of all this, it is difficult to ignore the trend of online shopping. With every website offering varied discounts and sales, many prefer to shop online only, asserts Meghna Vyas, a content writer. “I used to do street shopping quite regularly. But since DeMo, I have gone slow on street shopping and prefer online as online payments is user-friendly. I did try shopping on street with e-wallets, but most of the shopkeepers either do not have an access to the apps, or do not have bank accounts or there’s always some kind of network issues which leads to delay in the payment process.” 
 
 Well, even though talks of digital India and cashless economy gather momentum. the process will take its own sweet time to realize.
 
 
 
 
 
 
