GURGAON: The much-awaited   is finally on its way to becoming a reality with   signing an   with infrastructure agency   on Tuesday to successfully roll out the public transport system in Gurgaon.

 MCG commissioner V Umashankar, who signed the   as a representative of the Haryana government, said the   should start before the year-end, connecting all parts of the city — right from Huda sectors to Metro and railway stations and as well as parts of the old city.
 
 Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS), will collaborate on various aspects — to set up multi-modal transport hubs, bus terminals and related information and communication technologies — to help MCG implement the mass mobility system for the city. DIMTS MD-cum-CEO M Ramsekhar was present at the event where the MoU was signed.
 
 “DIMTS, which is operating the cluster bus service in Delhi, possesses knowledge and expertise in urban mobility planning and solution implementation. Through this MoU, we aim to leverage their resources and adopt the best global and local practices in creating an integrated transportation system,” Umashankar, who also holds the post of GMDA officer on special duty, said.
 
 Last year, the Manohar Lal Khattar regime had given its approval to Greater Gurugram Urban Transport Service Limited, a special purpose vehicle (SPV), to run the proposed city bus service. The MCG is to be at the helm of the bus service and part of the SPV with a private firm (DIMTS has been selected).
 
 With a fleet of 500 buses, the service is likely to run on 21 routes at 5-15-minute intervals. Out of these 500 buses, 175 are likely to be standard non-AC buses, 175 standard AC buses, 50 midi buses, 50 mini buses and another 50 midi AC buses. 
 
 The cost factor, which had been delaying the bus service, was also settled last year. The government recommended adoption of the gross cost contract (GCC) model, under which MCG would pay the bus operator an agreed sum (typically on a per km basis).
 
 
