Coimbatore: One can hardly miss or pass by the huge potholes in the city without stopping and staring at them. Most city roads have them, causing much inconvenience to commuters.

 The Thadagam Road maintained by the state highways department, NSR Road maintained by the Coimbatore corporation and Mettupalayam Road maintained by the national highways are just 2 km apart.
 
 All three roads have potholes that are nearly one foot deep and 5 feet wide. TOI measured the depth and width of the potholes and found that their size put motorists in danger.
 
 On NSR Road, a corporation road, the residents said a huge pothole was first formed a month ago after a water pipeline broke and there was leakage. “The hole became wider and deeper with each passing day, but the corporation officials did not take any step to level it. The rain has worsened the situation. We are tired of informing the officials about this,” said R Bharathi, a shopkeeper on N S R Road. TNSTC bus drivers said even they feared driving through the pothole as it was very deep.
 
 Nearly 20 metres from this junction, opposite Avila convent school, there is a huge pothole on the Thadagam Road which is a state highways road. “School students ride their cycles and heavy vehicles also pass through the road,” said Angamuthu, a commuter. State highways officials, when contacted, said they patched up the pot holes using mud. “We cannot lay tar or concrete right now as rain will wash it away. We can only dump debris and mud into these potholes temporarily for now,” said the engineer.
 
 Nearly 2.3 km away is a huge pothole on the Mettupalayam Road right opposite the Saibaba Colony police station. The road laid by the highways department about a year ago is totally damaged. “We believed that highways roads were better than corporation roads. But now all roads in the city are in the same condition. This pothole is right at the signal and yesterday more than 10 people stumbled and slipped here. Cars and two-wheelers are getting stuck. A differently-abled person’s vehicle too got stuck and people had to help him out,” said Gunasekaran, a commuter on the road. 
 
 Rajashekar, a resident, said engineers lay only one inch of small gravel on the roads. “First 1.5 inch sized metal should be laid and later the smaller gravel should be laid. But norms are not followed and none of the engineers or corporation commissioners checks the road laying process. They do not even inspect the roads,” he said.
 
 Civic activists said they had been seeking a committee for road quality control for several years, but in vain. 
 
 The corporation commissioner said the city engineer will prepare a report on all major roads that were damaged in the rain and would seek funds from the state government. “We will also use the disaster management fund for the purpose. Meanwhile, engineers will be instructed to patch up potholes,” he said. National highways officials could not be reached for comment.
 
 
