NAGPUR: SSC   (history and political sciences) examination, which was held on Wednesday, evoked positive response from majority of students.

 VP Dakhole, principal of  , Ramdaspeth, gave good review of the paper and was satisfied while analyzing it. She said, “Right from the type of questions to the timing given to solve them, everything was relevant.”
 
 “If I had to compare the paper with the one of last year, I can say that previously we had some tricky questions. But this time, the entire paper was set up keeping the average student in mind,” she said.
 
 Dakhole also said that she spoke to the students and all were happy and had no complains about the paper.
 
 Student Pallavi Tikale too was happy with the paper as she managed to solve all the questions. Expecting good marks, she said, “As soon as I saw the paper, I was relieved because all the questions were familiar to me. Before entering the   hall, I was very nervous. But this paper was much simpler than the one we used to get in school exams. I appeared for many test series before the exam and had enough practice.”
 
 Similar was the reaction of another student, Rohan Meshram. He said, “The exam was quite easy and I completed the paper before time. Overall, it was good and to the point. Right from the objectives to long questions, everything was simple and easy to understand.”
 
 “The most important thing was that I was familiar with the questions asked. The language of the paper was not complicated,” said Poonam Sharma.
 
 “By reading only once, I was able to understand the question. I thought that paper would be difficult as it is board exam , but it was so easy. I am very happy that I can start my preparation for the second paper with full energy and fresh mind,” she added.
 
 Prabhat Nair said, “This paper has given me the kind of positivity for the  . I mean to get such an easy paper in board exam is unexpected.”
 
 Sheena Mahajan said that despite less preparations, she managed to attempt most of the questions. “Earlier, I was nervous because of less study, but then as I saw the paper and all the tension went away. The timing was proper as well,” she said. 
 
 
 
 
 Paper toughness: Easy
 
 Relevance: Straight forward
 
 Length: Proper
 
