BATHINDA: Faridkot police have booked the chairman Sukhsagar Avenue Welfare Association, which runs Adarsh schools at Pakka and   villages under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode, for sexual harassment. The state government had entered into a partnership with Sukhsagar Avenue Welfare Association in this regard in 2016. 

 The case was registered against   on Tuesday, following a protest by five teachers of the school at Pakka outside the SSP’s office for action against the chairman.
 
 Faridkot deputy commissioner M S Jaggi said that the state education department was entitled to take any decision regarding reviewing the arrangement to run such schools. “We had handed over the inquiry report to the police and education department, wherein some irregularities were found in the functioning of the school.”
 
 An education department official said that the task of managing Adarsh schools could be reviewed. He claimed that many women teachers and students had complained against the present management. 
 
 A school teacher, Geetanjali, said, “The school management had allegedly misbehaved with us on January 24, when we tried to enter school after our transfers. The chairman also used foul language and passed lewd remarks against teachers.” 
 
 Five teachers were shifted by the school management to the other school also being run by the same management a few months ago, which was resisted by the former. They claimed that as per the recruitment rules, they could not be shifted to another school and approached the court in 2016. On January 16, 2017, the HC had stayed their transfer.
 
 Faridkot SSP Nanak Singh when contacted told TOI that “As per inquiry report of district administration case has been registered against Narinder Singh Randhawa and efforts are on to arrest him”.
 
 The management of   at Pakka village in Faridkot district is already under fire over allegations of sexual harassment and forcing students to do menial jobs. Earlier, the school was mired in controversy after some teachers had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court over their transfers some months back. 
 
