Goa is known for its varieties of mangoes and the season of the king of fruits is upon us.
 
  The   or the mango is traditionally used in Goa to prepare pickles in its raw form and to make juices or mango flavoured shrikhand, and such other sweetmeats once the fruit is ripe. But the fruit in its raw form in Goa is also used to make a refreshing drink known locally as panh or panak, or panna in  .
  
  To prepare panh, raw mangoes of a good variety are selected, so that there is enough flesh to extract pulp for the drink. The raw mangoes have to be then washed clean and cooked either in water in a pot, or in a pressure cooker. These cooked mangoes are then cooled and skinned, after which the pulp is then extracted from the seed and the skin.
  
  Adding powders of cumin seeds, pepper and crushed cardamom seeds adds deliciousness to the concoction. For the pulp of every two big mangoes, around 250 grams of jaggery helps with the flavours.
  
  Grinding all these ingredients into a fine paste and adding water to it, gives a transparent sherbet-like consistency to the mix. With a few cubes of ice or when refrigerated, this drink is a great relief from the summer heat.
  
  This drink is also   to be good to  , and is believed to give relief from other   health issues.
  
  One can also enjoy panh year round by storing it as a squash for later.
  
  To store it, all the collected pulp has to be thinned by adding water and again boiled into a bigger pot by adding salt and jaggery to it, to suit personal tastes. After boiling it for 10 minutes, the concentrated squash as a panh is ready. If stored in an air-tight container, it can be used as per need for a week or fortnight without using any chemical preservatives.
  
  There is another method of storage, where one can cool the pulp, add jaggery, and grind the mixture and store it without adding water. This is done by adding pepper powder, crushed cardamom, salt and water at the time of actually having the drink. Refrigeration is the only method to preserve this form of panh.
  
  Though jaggery is the traditional and healthier alternative, one can also add jaggery and crystal sugar (instead of adding jaggery alone) in equal parts. This gives an entirely different flavor to the drink.
