Women from all walks of life gathered at various stretches of the capital city from early Saturday morning to offer the ritualistic   to Attukal Amma. Beating the scorching heat, lakhs of devotees from different parts of the country prepared the prasadam — a mix of rice, jaggery and coconut cooked in new earthen pots and offered it to Amma. Dressed in traditional kasavu saris and set mundu, the festival witnessed several lakh of women, being part of the festival. The ceremony started off as the temple’s chief priest, Brahmasree Thekkedath Parameswaran Vasudevan Bhattathiripad lighted the holy hearth inside the temple at 10.45 am. 

 While some dedicated the sweet offering as a thanksgiving to the goddess to continue her blessings, some wished for the prosperity and health of their family. The devotees said they felt blessed when their pots with rice pudding boiled and overflew, which they consider symbolic of the acceptance of their offering by mother goddess. While some were seen praying with closed eyes and folded hands, others put korava to invoke the blessings of the goddess.
 
 Sreekumari P, a home maker from Kottarakara who offered pongala near Thampanoor says, “This is my 10th year of offering pongala. Every year I used to come one day prior to the event and find a space near the KSRTC Central bus stand so that after the ritual I could board the bus easily. I am a mother of two daughters and they are now well settled. This time I prayed to Attukal Amma that may there be an end to hooliganism and other antisocial activities which are making the society a scary place to live in.” 
 Meanwhile, the event also saw celebrities offering pongala. Yesteryear actress Jalaja shared her joy, saying, “I have been offering pongala for the past seven years. I am grateful to Amma for her blessings. I haven’t prayed for anything special this year. As the saying goes lokah samastah sukhino bhavantu, I prayed for happiness and well being to everyone in the world.” 
 
 Though at the event we spotted regulars such as actress Sona Nair, Chippy, Chithra Shaji Kailas and singer Rajalakshmi, unlike previous years, 
 we could not see many celebrities this time. 
 
