NAGPUR: The city’s dumping yard at   is up in flames for the second time in less than 25 days. However this time, the fire is so widespread that it has engulfed almost the entire dumping yard.

 Workers at the site informed that the fire was simmering for the last few days and started raging on Monday morning with severe intensity. The thick layer of smoke emanating from the yard enveloped areas as far as 2-3 kilometres – affecting nearby schools, residential areas and slums. The domes of the Swaminarayan temple were barely visible till late afternoon.
 
 In the last fire that broke out on March 21, around 30 windrows of solid waste created for bio-composting were destroyed. This time, 200 windrows spread over an area of 6-7 acres caught fire, informed the field staffers. According to   (NMC) officials, 1 windrow holds 400 metric tonne of municipal solid waste. Going by the calculations, a sizeable part of the 80,000 metric tonne of garbage is likely to be burned.
 
 The exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The workers said the fire could have started again because the earlier one must not have completely extinguished. 
 
 One of the workers, who has been posted at the spot for over 20 years now, said this was the biggest fire he has seen so far. “The windrows have to be kept dry as per expert advice. But, in the summer, this is dangerous as there are more chances of the fire spreading even if a small plastic catches fire,” he said.
 
 After spotting flames billowing from the windrows, the officials alerted NMC’s fire and emergency services department which deployed six fire tenders at the spot. In the evening, another three tenders were sent. Following the suggestions of  , treated sewage from the NMC’s Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Bhandewadi is being used to douse the fire.
 
 Apart from this, heaps of soil were also dumped on the windrows to extinguish the fire. When TOI went to the spot in the afternoon, the windrows on all four sides of the scientific landfill site were on fire. “This method of extinguishing fire by soil won’t help much in case of such a large-scale fire. Where will NMC get so much soil from?” said   founder  .
 
 At some spots, poclain machines were turning the windrows upside down and pushing it forward to control the fire. “This can prove to be more dangerous as the heaps of waste contain plastic which only spreads the fire. The best way is to confine the raging fire by spraying water in the gaps between flames. If the garbage is wet, fire will not spread,” said Chatterjee, adding that more number of tenders are needed.
 
 The fire has spiked the already high air pollution. After the last fire, NMC had reportedly ramped up the security at the dumping yard to avoid entry of ragpickers who often set fire to burn waste and collect valuable items. 
 
 In the morning, angry residents blocked several trucks which were bringing in fresh garbage to be dumped. They were upset over the pollution caused by the repeated fires. 
 
 Cops from Nandanvan police station reached the spot to take control of the situation. It took more than an hour for the people to disperse.
 
