AHMEDABAD: It was yet another call on Tuesday evening for the   team of   (AFES) when Ajay Parmar, 39, a resident of Girdharnagar, jumped into the river from  . The team reached the spot and rescued Parmar, the third rescue in three days.

 It’s not just tourists and citizens that throng the city bridges and Sabarmati Riverfront, it is also the favourite haunt for those seeking to end lives - and a priority spot for the AFES trying to rescue them.
 
 According to AFES officials, the deaths-to-rescue ratio still hovers around 4:1, which they are trying to improve with a dedicated team, faster boats and better rescue equipments.
 
 Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, said that metal grills on the major bridges have helped reduce the number of suicide attempts. 
 
 “Earlier, Ellisbridge used to be one of the major suicide spots and had registered 65 incidents in 2015. Today, the bridges with no grills and Riverfront walkway are the two major spots for suicide bids,” he said.
 
 Hitesh Contractor, in-charge city engineer of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), said that they have already issued tenders for fencing the remaining bridges such as Sardar Bridge, Ambedkar Bridge and Subhash Bridge to prevent and curb suicides.
 
 Bharat Mangela, leader of the River Rescue team, said that jumps from the walkways have increased in recent times, and also the number of rescues. 
 
 “In April, against 18 deaths there were 11 rescues. Many of the saved persons were spotted quickly by the visitors at Riverfront,” said Mangela. “Our team members also visit the walkway on a regular basis and as preventive action try to talk to those who loiter alone too close to the river for long,” he said.
 
 The four member River Rescue team, formed in June 2014, has so far saved over 250 lives. 
 
 Two end lives by drowning in Sabarmati
 
 Ahmedabad: AFES officials said that they recorded two suicides on Monday and Tuesday. 
 
 On Tuesday, the team received a call from   where an auto rickshaw driver had jumped into the river after parking his auto on the bridge at about 11 am. AFES started search for him after which the body was fished out at about 11.30 am. The man remains unidentified and Riverfront (W) police have started search for the auto rickshaw owner on basis of the vehicle registration number.
 
 In another incident, on Monday night, a woman, identified as Nisha Patel, 25, a resident of Maninagar, had ended life by jumping into Sabarmati river from Ambedkar Bridge. Investigators said that she was the only child of her parents and was working with a travelling agency. Police are yet to ascertain the reason for her suicide.
 
 
