JAIPUR: BJP state president Ashok Parnami claimed, as the Vasundhara Raje government finished three years in office in December last year, that 72% of promises made in the poll manifesto had been kept. The government claimed that it had provided 11 of the 15 lakh jobs it had promised. How these precise measurements were made, however, was unclear. Mukesh Nirvasit of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan, said, “I’ve have been trying to find out where and what jobs were created and have not been able to make much headway.”

 Nesar Ahmed of   (BARC) Jaipur cautions that those assessing   spending in the state must not forget two major changes in recent years. In 2014-15, the Centre started routing all support for Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) through state budgets. Earlier, these funds were transferred directly to implementing agencies, bypassing state budgets. This has caused an increase in the state budget’s reported allocation to the social sector. However, the Centre has also slashed allocations to most schemes it sponsored since 2014. Under  , for instance, the allocation in 2014 was Rs 28,258 for Rajasthan; in 2015-16, it was only Rs 22,015.
 
 The Union government – and this is the second important difference that Ahmed has noted – accepted recommendations of the   and increased the share of states in the total divisible pool of Central taxes from 32% to 42%. This too has made for greater fiscal autonomy for state governments.
 
 “The government seems to be relying more on technology (which has been made mandatory with the Bhamashah and use of Aadhaar numbers for accessing government schemes, and Point of Sale machines in the public distribution system). The government has also tended to increase privatization in health and education, favouring health insurance and not free medicine or diagnosis schemes and focusing more on industrial growth,” he said.
 
 Ahmed noted in his report, ‘Three years of the BJP government in Rajasthan: A look at the status of social sector policy and budget’ that allocations for some social sectors in the past four years may appear to have risen quite drastically. In 2013-14, Rs 5,028 crore was allocated to health and family welfare; in 2015-16, the allocation rose to Rs 9,416 crore. For education, sports, arts and culture, the 2013-14 allocation was Rs 16,403 crore and the sum for 2015-16 was Rs 23,824. Actual spending figures, however, are low. The increase was explained by the fact that central allocations were now routed through the state budget. 
 
 “The increase in total social sector was merely by 2.3% in the year 2015-16 over the previous year, when the Fourteenth Finance Commission recommendations were implemented,” Ahmed noted, adding that “there is … even a slight decline in social sector allocations 2014-15 onwards, as percentage of total state budget.”
 
 Another important trend that Ahmed underlined is underutilization of budget allocations. “In 2014-15 actual expenditure was more than 16% lower than allocation for the total of the social sectors,” he said. The underutilization was mostly because of lower transfer from the Union government under grants in aid (which includes the share of the Union government in CSS). Revised budget estimates for 2015-16 were lower by Rs 1,433 crore (6%) for education and Rs 1,147 (12.5%) for health, compared to earlier allocations.
 
 Quite apart from the shrinkage in the central allocations for schemes, there has also been a reduction in the funds for various state government schemes. The Chief Minister Free Medicine and Free Diagnostic Scheme, for instance, saw allocation of Rs 382 crore and Rs 119 crore, respectively, in 2014. It is now down to Rs 360 crore and Rs 105 crore. Not only is the allocation smaller, there is also less than optimum utilization of these funds. 
 
 “The government’s focus seems to be on promoting insurance-based support,” Ahmed noted. Rs 370 crore is allocated to the Bhamashah health insurance scheme per year. Health policy analysts note that this large sum might have gone a long way in improving government hospitals if ploughed directly into the system rather than routed through insurance.
 
 Ahmed also notesd with regret the large number of vacancies in government hospitals – of the 49,714 sanctioned posts in the medical and health department of the state, 34,051 are vacant, according to the  . “Rural health survey data show that there is an increase in the sanctioned posts in the last three years, but there is actually a decline in currently appointed staff,” he said. 
 
