For many, February is just the month when spring appears, but for recent graduates, this is the momentous month – the month of convocation. Last year, Savitribai Phule Pune University ( ) asked   colleges to hand over the bachelor’s degree in their respective campuses in a separate ceremony. As Nashik students graduated from their respective colleges, they are now excited about the upcoming   ceremony in their respective colleges, which will be the norm henceforth. 

 
 
  “Convocation is a really big day in any student’s life and I am having mixed feelings about it,” says  , an arts graduate who’d be attending the convocation ceremony in her college. “I’ll be returning to my college after a long time, although I live in the same city. Returning to college as a graduate to accept my degree is really exciting. Convocation is the last function one can attend as a student of one’s college. Later I’ll be termed as an alumna, so I am a little emotional now,” adds Kajal. 
 
 
 
 
  For any convocation ceremony, the first requirement is a dress robe. And if you are confused over which colour robes you can pick up from the rental shop, let Saurabh Bendale help you. “These robes come in different colours and they signify different things. When we organised our convocation ceremony, black colour robes were meant for graduates, orange colour robes were for the teachers and professors who were conferring the degrees and red colour robes were for student representatives. But the dress-code might differ according to colleges and their streams,” informs Saurabh who is a student representative and an arts student.
 
 
 
 
  The excitement of students regarding the upcoming convocation ceremonies in their respective colleges has transferred on to rental business owners too. As students scout for robes according to the colour codes mentioned by their colleges, rental shops are thriving on increased business in a lull period. “Most of these colleges reach out us for convocation robes. Different shops charge more or less same price for each type of dress robe,” informs Mahesh Bhandari, owner of a cloth rental shop in Shankar Nagar. He adds that a black robe set, which includes a robe and a cap costs `110 per day, whereas orange and red robes cost `120 per day. 
 
 
