KOLKATA: The   was a close-knit unit who were always there for each other. They celebrated their festivals with aplomb and made sure every member was present. They never visited   and   to officers and anxiously waited for replies. 

 Then January 13 happened and they started doing all of this. In an instant, a world in which everything was perfect suddenly seemed all wrong. Ramlal and Gangotri Gaud’s 21-year-old son, Abhimanyu died when a speeding Audi knocked their Air Force officer son on Kolkata’s  . 
 
 In the bleak months that followed, the Gauds have looked for ways to find closure, trying to keep Abhimanyu’s name alive, taking comfort even in seeing it printed on the mails in their communication with government departments.
 
 “Abhimanyu’s memories are like a wound. They never heal and keep us reminding of him,” said Bajrang Gaud, Abhimanyu’s elder brother, from Surat where the family is settled. More than a year has passed but they have no clue when justice will be delivered.
 
 “We have knocked on every possible door. From politicians to leaders and bureaucrats, we have approached everybody to know about the case’s progress but nobody could assure when my brother will receive justice,” said Bajrang. Kolkata Police had filed a charge sheet in March and the main accused, Sambia Sohrab, is in custody.
 
 On January 13, Bajrang along with his father and elder brother held a small memorial service in Surat. “Abhimanyu’s death has left our mother limp with despair,” said Bajrang, 23, who was preparing for civil service examinations when the mishap occurred. To support the family financially and morally, Bajrang gave up on his dream and started working in a bank. 
 
 Another reason the family is miffed is that they have not yet received the final settlements of Abhimanyu’s family pension and death cum gratuity benefits. “We are financially well-off but it pains that it is taking so long to get the final settlement,” said Bajrang.
 
 A senior IAF official said that the claim is being processed. “There is some delay as the incident occurred away from base and in a civil area. There are several formalities and this is taking some time,” he said.for his funeral, they braced each other, friends recalled, as if they could not stand alone.
 
 
