KARWAR: Communal politics is slowly entering college campuses in Uttara Kannada, as the   (ABVP), the student wing of the  , (RSS) decided to counter what they call the “burqa and hijab culture” by wearing saffron shawls. 

 The open support to this ‘Kesari Shawl Abhiyan’ by Uttara Kannada MP Anant Kumar Hegde has added fuel to the fire. A fortnight ago, students from a private degree college in Sirsi began wearing saffron shawls to class, alleging that girls from the Muslim community were dressed in hijab (headscarf) and burqa. The students demanded that the college administration implement the uniform dress code among students and not allow anybody to display their religious identity in classrooms. 
 
 Anant Kumar came out in open support of the ABVP, saying that some radical Muslim elements were deliberately pressuring girls of their community to wear hijab and burqa in class. He alleged that it was to create divisions among students of different faiths. After this, the dispute spread to some other colleges in Sirsi and the girls too joined in by wearing saffron shawls. The issue was later resolved by the intervention of the police, and the college administration declaring that all students should enter class only in uniform.
 
 After this, other colleges in the district too witnessed similar incidents, with the ABVP blaming radical elements behind the hijab and burqa. “A year ago, the same students were attending classes in uniform. What has suddenly prompted them to come to college wearing burqa?” asked   of the ABVP.
 
 But Muslim girls deny this and say that they keep their faces uncovered even if they wear the hijab and burqa. “If we follow our religious customs, how does it offend the ABVP?” questioned Heena, a student. 
 
 The problem has now spread to   in Bhatkal. Here, the main allegation of the ABVP is that woman lecturers and girls belonging to the Muslim community wear burqa and hijab in class, and that they would stop wearing saffron shawls only if the other group agrees to come in uniform.
 
 This was denied by the college principal, who said, “Lecturers and students wear hijab but not burqa, as alleged by the ABVP,” said  , in-charge principal of the college. It is said that Muslim girls and lecturers refused to give up burqas and hijabs in class, saying that it is their religious right. Bhageerathi said that there is no dress code for lecturers and it is difficult to impose it in the absence of any provision. 
 
 Bhatkal, a communally-sensitive town, is sitting on a tinder box. In the past, silly incidents have turned into major communal conflagrations. But both groups are not ready for any compromise. ABVP has made it clear that it would continue the Kesari Shawl Abhiyan in different colleges, unless the administration applies the uniform dress code. Most of the college administrations appear helpless on this sensitive issue. 
 
