CHENNAI: The   ( ) won't be able to host the two U-19 'Test' matches against England at Chepauk from February 13 but it has nothing to do with the Supreme Court verdict on the   recommendations.

 The TNCA, in its letter to   dated January 6, has stated: "We regret to inform you that we are unable to host the matches at Chennai due to various domestic programmes scheduled during that period." The association will however host the Syed Mushtaq Ali meet for the national T20 event and the Vijay Hazare Trophy for the national One Day meet before that.
 
 There have been speculations that the decision not to host the matches in Chennai was taken after a meeting of the ex office-bearers of the BCCI in Bengaluru which was convened by N Srinivasan.
 
 The TNCA joint-secretary  , who signed the letter sent to BCCI, told TOI: "The letter was sent on January 6, a day before the meeting was held. We have to finish our TNCA first division matches. I think somebody wants to blow things out of proportion - this has nothing to do with what the ex-office bearers of the BCCI decided in Bengaluru," Palani said.
 
 He said that a lot of grounds in the city are not ready in the aftermath of the Vardah Cyclone.
 
 "We are going to organise the Syed Mushtaq Ali and Vijay Hazare tournaments here only later this month. A lot of grounds are not available following Vardah. We have many league and knockout matches to finish before June and it will not be possible to spare the   for a period of 15 days after the completion of BCCI tournaments which will also take close to a month," Palani said.
 
 The joint-secretary further added that N Srinivasan, the president of TNCA, had nothing to do with the decision. Palani is in charge of conducting local league matches and maintenance of the grounds and it was his decision that the association won't be able to host the England under-19 team.
 
 "People don't know how the grounds have been affected by the cyclone. I'm in charge of the league, grounds and everything here. I, as a joint secretary of the TNCA, have written to the BCCI that we wouldn't be able to host the England under-19 team as we have to have our league games," he said.
 
