SINDRI: The   of the   gave administrative approval for the transfer of 751 acres of land of the Sindri fertiliser plant in the state and 480 acres land of   in Bihar to the  . (HURL) on lease for setting up   

 According to sources, the IMC meeting held under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog CEO on Friday approved the transfer of 751 acres of land in Sindri to the HURL - including 159 acres of land for the new plant and facilities, 130 acres of land for expansion after scrap removal, 85 acres of land for a new township, 181 acres of land for peripheral green belt area, 73 acres of land in the existing green belt area on ash dump and 123 acres of land for additional water supply - for the proposed urea-ammonia plant.
 
 As per the proposal, the main plant will come up on a vacant land near the eastern boundary of the existing plant and adjoining area of the ACC plant. The council has also allowed use of old buildings like stores, office, and silo besides few old quarters temporarily during the construction period to minimise mobilisation time and cost. After removal of scrap, the area will be utilised for setting up manufacturing unit of industrial chemicals and future expansion. A new township is also proposed to be set up in vacant area of the existing old township, leaving existing quarters untouched. The state government plans to use the settling tank of the old plant for water storage for the new plant.
 
 The IMC has also approved transfer of 480 acres of land of the closed Barauni fertiliser unit to the HURL - including 250 acres of land in vacant space for new plant and facilities, 100 acres for provision for granulation system and industrial chemicals and expansion, 78 acres for township facilities and 52 acres for the green belt. 
 
 The Union cabinet on July 13, 2016, had approved revival of the Barauni unit of the Hindustan Fertilizers Corporation Ltd. (HFCL), Sindri, and the Gorakhpur unit of the FCIL through a special purpose vehicle of the NTPC, Coal India Limited and the Indian Oil Corporation for setting up a gas-based Ammonia-Urea plant of 1.27MTPA capacity each at an estimated of Rs 6,000 crores each. Both the FCIL and the HFCL will have 11% stake in the proposed new urea plant in exchange of the land. 
 
