LUCKNOW: It would take 14 months for supply of   to get back to normal in the city, even if Lucknow Municipal Corporation starts working on construction of its own   right now. As per LMC officials, though the documents were submitted to the high court with reference to construction and operation of slaughterhouses, the corporation asked for 10 months to complete the project.

 Of the two proposed slaughterhouses, the first is to be constructed in Mohanlalganj while the second is for renovation of the Motijheel slaughterhouse. Both proposals have been accepted by the government, while land has been ascertained, grants are available and the concessioner is also decided for construction on PPP (public-private partnership) model, the projects have yet to receive NOC (non-objection certificate) from the UP Pollution control Board.
 
 “All formalities are complete, including land clearance by district magistrate and approval of the state-level comity that is formed to look after the construction of municipal abattoirs in the city. We can start with the construction work as soon as we get the NOC,” said S K Jain, LMC chief engineer in charge after the project.
 
 Pollution control board officials on the other hand said they require four months to process the request, complete all formalities and sanction the NOC. The process, however, has not been started yet because the application submitted by the LMC is not complete.
 
 “We keep in view all parameters of water and air pollution act and follow a criteria to grant NOC, as of now the application submitted by LMC does not have all the required information about the project. So, they will have to make a new request with all necessary documents to get approval,” said Kuldeep Mishra, regional director of UPPCB.
 
 BOX
 
 The demand and no supply
 
 The demand for meat in the city is of around 210 tonnes, which includes 90 tonnes buffalo meat, 20 tonnes goat meat and 100 tonnes   meat. The   supply has come down to nil after closure of three unlicensed slaughterhouses run by the LMC. According to butchers’ association,   supply has gone down drastically to 30%, while chicken meat supply has come down to 50% after closure of retail shops. As per LMC survey, nearly 70% population in the city is non-vegetarian.
 
 Before closure, these three slaughterhouses used to slay around 600 large animals and around 200 goats daily. Besides, around 1 lakh chicken used to be slaughtered at retail outlets daily. The supply of buffalo and goat meat can resume only when the two modernised abattoirs proposed by the LMC start functioning, which, as per the corporation’s own estimate would require at least 14 months. As per the UP Municipal Corporation Act, 1959, it is the responsibility of municipal corporation to construct, maintain and regulate slaughterhouses in a city. 
 
