Gone are the days when students would eagerly await a   to collect   or check their mailboxes for the document. More than  ,000 unclaimed degree certificates have piled up over the past five years on Gujarat University’s desks as the graduates have not bothered to collect them yet. These include certificates of external students who either failed to collect their documents at the convocation or requested their degrees be sent by post but provided incomplete or inaccurate addresses. Varsity officials said 3.5 lakh students enrol in   every year. “More than 50,000 degrees are awarded in the two convocations organised by the GU every year.

 But nearly 40 per cent (or around 20,000) students do not turn up at either event,” said a varsity official, requesting anonymity. Explaining the process of procuring degree certifications, the official said, “While most external students opt to get the degree posted, regular students prefer to collect the same at the convocation ceremony or request these be sent to their respective colleges.”
 
 Pointing out that this is a serious issue with Science, Commerce and Arts streams, the official added, “It signifies lack of interest on part of students towards their degrees which is unfortunate, considering they work hard towards it for three years. They spend money, time and effort but don’t come to collect their degree.” Ravindra Hirani, who completed BEd in 2014, came to GU only recently to collect his degree certificate after state government began the process of hiring teachers. “I work as a teacher in a school that never asked for a degree certificate and so I did not bother to collect it.
 
 I only realised it was important when I applied online for vacancies in government schools.” A highly placed source at GU said, “We have some 20,000 to 22,000 degrees lying with us that are yet to be claimed or have been sent back to us. These include the certificates of external students too. We have been trying for several years to ensure students receive their degrees.” The varsity has also even given advertisements in newspapers urging degrees be collected by the respective students. “We mention that degrees for particular courses will be available for collection only till a particular date. Thereafter, we send these degrees to respective colleges of the students and try that they reach the students. We are doing our best,” said the source.
 
 University sources say that after the results are announced, they post the marksheets to the external students, but even these come back because the addresses in the form are incomplete or inaccurate. “Even these marksheets are lying with us and eating up a lot of space. What is surprising is that the students make a hue and cry if the results are announced late, but do not collect the marksheets for up to two years after the results,” the source said. The official added, “Earlier, students were required to fill in a separate form to procure their degrees.
 
 Since 2011, it has become mandatory for students pay for their degrees along with their examination fees. What is shocking is that students are not even aware that they have filled in forms and paid money for it.” Himanshu Pandya, in-charge Vice Chancellor of Gujarat University, said that many students believed mark sheets were enough. “Gone are those days when people used to proudly display their degree certificate on their walls. These days nobody is interested in it,” he said. “Graduates who run their business do not attach much importance to a degree certificate.
 
 They come running to us seeking one only when they apply for a government or a corporate job or a foreign university for further studies,” he added. During the convocation held in February this year, GU had kept its office counters open for 10 days to clear the backlog. “Even now we are trying that maximum students receive it. But most are in no hurry because they know that GU offers provisional certificates and mark sheets,” Pandya said.
 
