SHIMLA: The newly-appointed Congress in-charge of Himachal Pradesh   has a tough ask ahead. He takes over at a time when the state unit is facing an internal feud between state president   and chief minister  . 

 Set to for a two-day visit to the the state in the first week of August, Shinde’s first job will be to maintain unity among the party rank and file. With the assembly polls round the corner, factionalism can mar the party’s prospects. The Virbhadra- led faction still calls the shots, but the rival group is now trying to form a joint front and recently they met at   for the birthday celebration of transport minister G S Bali.
 
 On one hand, there’s an effort to oust Sukhu, but on the other hand, six Congress MLAs have sought Virbhadra’s removal post the Kotkhai gang rape and murder of a minor girl. According to a senior Congress leader, the heinous crime has caused widespread resentment among the public against the government. “If at this critical juncture, the Congress goes for the polls then, the result would be a foregone conlcusion,” he added.
 
 Another leader, from the ant-CM faction said that since 1983 Virbhadra has been enjoying unchallenged leadership in the state Congress. “But now he should realize that age is not by his side and he should allow others to grow in the party. People surrounding Virbhadra Singh have provoked him against Sukhu and ongoing tug of war between them would spell doom for the party in the coming election,” he added.
 
 A PCC leader said that Shinde’s foremost challenge would be to form a proper coordination between the government and the party. The Congress government has already launched “mission repeat” and ensuring success of this campaign would be another challenge for Shinde as in Himachal Pradesh no government has managed to stay in power for two consecutive terms. 
 
 While interacting with media persons at Nuropur, Virbhadra said that the coming assembly election would be contested under his leadership and Congress would emerge victorious. Virbhadra also said that there were a handful of people in the Congress harming the party but these leaders would be tamed soon.
 
