CHANDRAPUR/NAGPUR:   of hundreds of forest personnel chasing a dreaded man-eater tigress in the jungles of Tadoba came to an end after it was tranquillized and captured on Wednesday morning. RFO   guided by wildlife veterinary doctor Ravikant Khobragade brought down the tigress with a single perfect shot in the forest near Shivni in buffer zone of Tadoba.

 The tigress was shifted to Gorewada rescue centre late evening where it will be kept in a cell besides a male tiger Sahebrao, which was shifted from Maharajbagh. It was treated by wildlife vet Dr Vinod Dhoot. 
 
 Even though shooting orders were out against the problem tigress, forest officers chose to tranquillize the carnivore and succeed in the task. Officers involved in the operation informed that the tigress had killed a bullock in compartment No. 232 close to Shivni village. The trackers traced the cattle kill and a team comprising both police and forest department shooters, veterinary doctor, led by ACF Rahul Patil, was put over a hurriedly-made machan near the kill. When the tigress came to the spot at around 9 am, RFO Langde took a shot at the feline with the tranquillizing gun. The dart struck the beast in the shoulder forcing it to flee. However, the animal collapsed after crossing nearly 100 metres under the spell of sedatives.
 
 Within 15 minutes, the forest team captured the tigress in a net and put the beast into a cage. While the operation was underway, other officers, forest and police personnel were kept away from the spot. Villagers too were not allowed to go near the site and the tigress was soon shifted to forest nursery at Moharli. Dr Khobragade revived the sedated tigress and checked it for injures and fitness. After he declared the animal fit and healthy, it was transferred to Gorewada zoo-cum-rescue centre in Nagpur the same evening, officials claimed.
 
 Around 15 villages in Shivni range in the buffer zone and Sindewahi range in   forest division were reeling under the terror of the man-eater tigress since last three weeks. Three successive human kills in Shivni range and two incidents of mauling of women in Sindewahi range had forced the forest department to launch hunting operations against the feline since December 25, the day a woman became third victim of the feline. Investigations had confirmed the involvement of the tigress in two out of the three human kills and in both the instances of mauling of women.
 
 After a failed attempt to capture the problem beast by tranquillizing it near Waneri in Sindewahi range on January 27, chief wildlife warden had issued shooting orders against the man-eater tigress. More than 300 forest personnel, policemen and entire battalion of STPF was deployed into hunting operations. CCF and field director, TATR, deputy director, Gajendra Narwane and DCF, Bramhapuri, Ashish Thakre, supervised the operations.
 
