DEHRADUN:   and BJP, both plagued by rebels, have together thrown out close to 50 leaders, some of them prominent, after they refused to withdraw their nominations. As a result, the stage has now been set for a tense fight in many constituencies where the rebels will pose problems to the official party candidates.   for instance has sacked nearly two dozen leaders, of which around 11 are set to give a tough fit to the party’s nominees. In the Congress, 25 leaders have been evicted for jumping in the poll fray after being denied tickets. Of these, three are believed by party insiders to pose problems for the official candidates. They include Shoorveer Singh Sajwan in Devprayag, Rajni Rawat in Raipur and Aryendra Sharma in Sahaspur.
 
  Sajwan is a popular Thakur leader of the Garhwal region, and was a state minister in the ND Tiwari government in 2002. He has won the assembly elections thrice – in 1985 from Devprayag, 1993 from Tehri and 2002 from the Rishikesh constituency. In the last elections, Congress had fielded him as the party nominee from Devprayag but he lost to independent candidate Mantri Prasad Naithani. This time, Naithani is on a Congress ticket while the disgruntled Sajwan has decided to fight as an independent. Another ND Tiwari loyalist, Aryendra Sharma has also been shown the door. During Tiwari’s tenure, Sharma was his OSD (Officer on Special Duty) and held clout. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 elections and was hopeful of getting a party ticket from Sahaspur, which went to Congress state chief Kishore Upadhyay. After the ticket was announced, a number of his supporters barged inside the Congress state headquarters and created a ruckus.
  
  Then there is transgender politician Rajni Rawat who surprised political pundits when she made her entry in the political arena by contesting the mayoral polls of Dehradun in 2008 and securing over 44,000 votes. In the 2013 mayor polls, she improved her tally to 46,689 votes but could not clinch the elections. She later joined the Congress and was hopeful of getting a ticket from the Raipur constituency which eventually went to Prabhu Lal Bahuguna.
  
  Congress spokesperson Mathura Dutt Joshi told TOI that all efforts were made regarding the rebel candidates. “Enough time was given to them. But when they refused to budge from their stand, the party had to take the stringent measure of expelling them for a period of six years,” he said.
  
  BJP’s list of leaders who have been expelled is also a long one. It includes names like Surat Ram Nautiyal who is contesting as an independent from Gangotri, Asha Nautiyal (Kedarnath), Ghanilal Shah (Ghansali), Om Gopal Rawat (Narendra Nagar), Pramod Nainwal (Ranikhet), Hem Arya (Nainital), Kavindra Ishthwal (Chaubattakhal) and Kishan Singh Bhandari (Didihat). Another prominent leader who was expelled on Thursday is Diwakar Bhatt, a founder member of the   Kranti Dal who had joined the saffron party in 2012.
  
  Poll-watchers said that BJP will have perhaps more of a problem than the Congress in countering the rebels who are set to cut votes of party candidates particularly in constituencies like Ranikhet, Narendranagar, Chaubattakhal and Kedarnath. “Om Gopal Rawat may play spoilsport to Subodh Uniyal in Narendranagar, Asha Nautiyal to Shaila Rani Rawat in Kedarnath, Pramod Nainwal to Ajay Bhatt in Ranikhet and Kavindra Ishtwal to Satpal Maharaj in Chaubattakhal,” said Dehradun-based analyst Udit Ghildiyal.
  
  Om Gopal Rawat is a young leader considered to have strong grass-root ties in Narendranagar. Even though he lost from the area in 2012, he is touted to pose a strong challenge to Subodh Uniyal who had defected from Congress to BJP last year. Similarly, Pramod Nainwal, once considered state president Ajay Bhatt's protege, has fielded himself as an independent against Bhatt in Ranikhet after being denied a ticket. This has made Bhatt’s position precarious considering that he had won the last polls from the seat by a wafer thin margin of just 78 votes. In Kedarnath, two-time MLA Asha Nautiyal is likely to spoil the chances of Shaila Rani Rawat, sitting MLA who joined BJP along with other Congress rebels last year and in Chaubattakhal, Kavinder Ishtwal, who reportedly has the backing of local party cadre may cut into the votes of Satpal Maharaj.
  
  BJP leaders however downplayed the possibilities of rebels denting the BJP candidates’ chances. “Leaders are nothing without the support of the party, so we are not worried about any of the persons who have been expelled spoiling chances of party candidates especially since there is an overwhelming wave in support of PM Modi in Uttarakhand,” said state BJP general secretary Naresh Bansal.
 
