It’s been four months since the TV show ' ' ended, but majority of the cast and crew is still waiting for their dues to be cleared. They approached Cine and TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA) for a meeting, where producer   promised to clear everyone’s dues. However, she failed to do so and hence,   has issued a non-cooperation directive against her. The directive prevents all CINTAA members from providing their services to any venture undertaken by Meenakshi. 

 Sushant Singh, general secretary of the association, confirms, “After repeated attempts to convince the production house to settle the payment, we decided to stop all cooperation with them. The members have been instructed not to provide their services to the production house or any of their other banners.”
 
 Actress  , who was part of the show, says, “I’ve received only a part of my payment. They stopped us from depositing the post-dated cheques. I wasn’t even given a copy of my contract in spite of repeated requests. Around seven actors had approached CINTAA before the shoot wrapped up. We were assured that we would be paid. On that condition, we resumed the shoot, but the dues still haven’t been cleared.”
 
 Mouli’s co-actor from the show,  , adds, “After regular follow-ups and incessant calls, I was issued two post-dated cheques that bounced, leaving me with no choice but to file a case. I feel cheated as I used to travel three hours to reach the set at Naigaon and had also put in extra hours on several occasions.”
 
 On her part, Meenakshi says, “No cheques have bounced. There is just a delay in payment. Every business goes through ups and downs. CINTAA can’t make a one-sided decision. They are harassing and bullying me because I am a woman. Why haven’t they taken into account those who have been paid? My own association   isn’t concurring with their decision. We treat these actors like family and this is what we get in return. If I were to open the mentioned actors’ agreements vis-a-vis the amount of adjustments made for them, they’ll have to pay me money!”
 Meanwhile, Meenakshi has sent legal notice to CINTAA accusing the association of extortion, criminal intimidation, threats and defamation.
 
 Her advocate   tells us, “CINTAA is a Trade Union and they have to follow the Trade Union Laws. CINTAA cannot act as a recovery agent and therefore any threats, criminal intimidation or acts of defamation indulged in by CINTAA to put pressure on any producer and recover dues of actors, is not only illegal but also criminal in nature. Despite this, they haven’t withdrawn the directive or tendered a written apology. I therefore plan to take the matter to court.” 
 
 
