NAGPUR: The   Disputes Redressal Forum here, directed   and others to refund Rs15,600 to a consumer for “deficiency in services” and “adopting unethical practices” while selling the mobile handset. 

 Bhutada Mobile Gallery at Wardha where the handset was purchased on November 6 2014 and M/s  , a mobile repair shop on  , are other respondents in the case.
 
 A bench comprising president Vijay Premchandani and member Pradeep Patil asked all three to pay the amount to complainant Priti Digrase, a resident of Bhagwan Nagar, either individually or collectively. 
 
 Out of this, Rs 8,100 was for the cost of mobile, which developed the snag and couldn’t be repaired, Rs 5,000 for mental harassment and Rs 2,500 towards cost of filing the complaint.
 
 After the handset developed snag, Digrase had given it to the Mobile Expert shop for repairing. A year later, the mobile again stopped functioning after which she reapproached the repairing centre on November 4. 
 
 However, she was told to send the handset to the company headquarters for repairing. About eight to ten days later, her handset was returned in a good condition with an assurance that she wouldn’t be facing any problems in future.
 
 Just two days later, the handset again stopped functioning after which she moved to the repairing centre, but failed to get any response. 
 
 She then dispatched a legal notices to all three respondents on December 17, 2015, but none of them responded that lead her to knock the forum’s doors. 
 
 She prayed for refund of handset cost along with rate of interest from the date of purchase.
 
 The forum issued notices to the Micromax Limited, based in Gurgaon in the capital, along with other two respondents. But none of them responded. The judges then decided to start hearings ex-parte.
 
 While partly allowing the Digrase’s complaint, the judges directed court registrar to provide judgment copy to the complaint free of cost.
 
 (With inputs from 
 
 Viraj Deshpande)
 
 The Verdict
 
 * The complainant was a “consumer”. She produced valid bills 
 
 * Respondents failed to reply to notices and appear before the forum
 
 * They failed to repair handset despite requests
 
 * They’re guilty of “deficiency in services” & “adopting unethical practices”
 
 * Respondents told to comply with directives within a month.
 
