Gurgaon:   of plotted   in the   area will now have to pay Re 1 per square yard more as   charges. The   has raised the monthly maintenance from Rs 2.5 per sq yd to Rs 3.5 per sq yd.

 According to a circular sent by the developer to residents, common area maintenance (CAM) charges have been raised from Rs 2.50 per sq yd to Rs 3.50 per sq yd. “After close examination with DEDL (DLF Estate Developers Limited), it has been agreed to increase the CAM charges from existing Rs 2.50/sq yd to Rs 3.50/sq yd, with effect from April 2017,” states the circular.
 
 Sudhir Kapoor, president of DLF City RWA, told TOI, “It is after six years that we have revised maintenance charges. We’ve increased security and maintenance staff, worked on repairs and re-metalling of road across the colony, cleaning vacant plots and streamlining daily garbage collection. There has been substantial increase in input costs of utilities etc. So we’ve revised rates to deliver quality services to residents.” 
 
 While most residents agreed to pay the increased maintenance, some questioned it. “Road repair has definitely taken place, especially in the recent past. Security is also better than what it was some time back. I don’t mind paying a little extra if garbage collection and sanitation improves,” said V K Mathur, a resident of DLF Phase 1. “Roads are not being swept regularly. Garbage collection has been irregular. Increasing charges is unjustified, when we are not getting better services,” said Manpreet Kaur, a resident of DLF Phase 3.
 
 “Every time the developer wants to increase maintenance charges, we see hasty some development work in a few areas. I was surprised to see road carpeting in some areas of DLF Phase 1. Now I realise it was an eyewash, to demand more maintenance charges,” said a resident of DLF Phase 2, requesting anonymity.
 
 “Only DLF City RWA has released a circular. However, maintenance is being charged by DEDL, so the circular should have come from it. Also, MCG has already released notification to take over maintenance in February 2016. We’re waiting for the government to take action in this regard. We have also submitted proposals to the authorities to convert the plotted area in DLF into horizontal condominiums. Therefore, increasing maintenance charges can’t be made effective in this scenario,” said R S Rathee, president of   Citizens’ Council, a citizens’ platform.
 
 Till now, residents were paying Rs 2.50 per sq yd. In 2010, maintenance charges were last increased from Re 1 per sq yd to Rs 2.50 per sq yd. Over 1.5 lakh people live in plotted colonies in DLF phases 1, 2, 3 and 4.
 
 
