CHANDIGARH: Within the 24 hours of the reports of Jat leaders and the Haryana government arriving at an agreement to end the 48-day-long agitation by the community, the two parties were face-to-face again on Friday. While All India Jat Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik accused the Haryana government of deceiving and misleading the community, chief minister   claimed that all demands of the protesters had been accepted. 

 AIJASS has also made it clear that the Jats would march to Delhi on March 20 to gherao Parliament and to hold stage sit-ins on the Delhi border.
 
 On Thursday, AIJASS chief and other Jat leaders had met the government panel led by education minister   in Panipat. Terming the meeting as ‘fruitful’, both Sharma and Malik had claimed that a formal announcement on the final solution to the issue would be made in a joint statement on Friday.
 
 Malik had claimed that the joint statement would be released by the CM in presence of members of Jat community at Haryana Bhawan in New Delhi on Friday at 2 pm. While everyone was waiting for the announcement, neither the CM nor Malik reached the Haryana Bhawan at the given time.
 
 Later, both Khattar and Malik held separate press conferences at Chandigarh and Rohtak respectively on Friday afternoon making different claims on the issue.
 
 The CM, accompanied by DGP K P Singh and home secretary  , claimed that all demands of the protesters, as per their agreement with the committee headed by Sharma, had been accepted. He also claimed that the joint statement was to be made in Delhi by the Jat leaders and the minister regarding lifting of the dharnas.
 
 Khattar that it was not agreed that he would issue any joint statement on the issue. “I was busy in a pre-engaged event in  , and any meeting with Jat leaders was not in my schedule. Jat leaders had already agreed on Thursday and they should have made a formal statement to lift the sit-ins at Delhi today,” he said.
 
 The CM, however, did not say as to what went wrong when both parties were almost on agreement. He kept on insisting that the demands had been accepted within the ‘constitutional framework’. He, however, said there might be some disagreements among the protesters, but he was still hopeful of resolving the issue. On Jats’ threat of moving to Delhi on March 20, Khattar said the state was prepared to maintain law and order.
 
 On the other hand, Malik said, “We had reached Delhi on Friday morning but had to come back to Rohtak after we came to know that the CM is in Panchkula. Once it was all over in media that a final decision on lifting dharnas would be taken only after meeting the CM, he should not have backed out,” he said.
 
 
