NAGPUR:   has given one more chance for a one-time increase in seats to all the   (GMCs) running   (PG) courses in various  . In a letter dated May 19 to all GMCs, the council has asked them to apply for the increase by May 23 in the required format.

 This new offer will help the Super Speciality Hospital (SSH) at the Government Medical College and Hospital Nagpur get an increase of two PG seats in gastroenterology and three seats in cardiology that will take the total PG seats from the existing three to eight. At present, gastroenterology has just one seat and cardiology has two.
 
 Dr Mukund Deshpande, professor and head of cardiology, told TOI he had submitted all the information in the required format to the dean office on Monday. “Someone will have to take it tomorrow from the dean office to MCI as the proposal has to reach by 5pm on Tuesday. We have sought an increase of two to five as we now have two Associate Professors (APs) also. One professor now justifies three seats and an AP with seven years of experience justifies one seat and one with 12 years of experience justifies two seats,” said Dr Deshpande.
 
 Dr Sudhir Gupta, professor and head of the gastroenterology department, stated that since they had only a single seat in the subject so far they had applied for two more. “As a professor I can get another two seats. We don’t have an AP so we can’t demand more,” he said.
 
 The Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at SSH, Dr M P Parchand, said the proposals had been submitted to the acting dean Dr A Sangawar, who would be sending it by hand to MCI on Tuesday. “This opportunity is limited to only subjects where there are existing PG seats. Though we have seven superspecialities, at present we have just two subjects with PG seats. We can only demand seats in these two subjects. It will be a great if we get them,” he said.
 
 MCI has also asked for the number of faculty members that includes professors, APs, assistant professors and senior residents in the prescribed proforma. The SSH is also expected to send information on the units, beds, specialized equipment, faculty available and current number of seats with the experience of each faculty with their research publications.
 
