PATNA: Within minutes of the presser addressed by RJD chief to refute his allegations regarding   deal for a mall near  , former deputy CM   on Sunday said he was happy that Lalu Prasad admitted the controversial plot belonged to his wife   and two sons   and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.
 
  “It’s common knowledge that this is how benami transactions are made in the country. Lalu Prasad knows the trick of the trade. But, I request him to reveal all such land deals or I will do so in coming days,” SuMo said while asking CM Nitish Kumar to remove Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav from his cabinet for not “disclosing their businesses and assets” to either the government or the Election Commission. Lalu admitted at a press conference that his wife and two sons are shareholders in the company which owns the plot of land on which a mall was being constructed.
  
  SuMo said he has been saying this for the last five-six days that the land was owned by Lalu family. “Now Lalu has himself admitted that his sons are involved in the business and since it is not declared by them in their annual declarations before the state government, the copy of which is on the website of Bihar government, CM Nitish should remove Tejashwi and Tej Pratap from his cabinet as he always asks the Centre to take action against ‘benami sampati’,” said Modi.
  
  “The case is related to Bihar and his two ministers. In this case, the Centre has no role to play. Nitish should act and prove that he is against those who have benami property,” he added.
  
  In a lighter vein, SuMo said Nitish should appoint Lalu and his family members as the economic advisers to him as the RJD chief can suggest how to invest just Rs4 lakh and reap Rs500 crore in some business. “The mall, when it gets ready, will have a market value of not less than Rs500 crore,” he said.
  
  The senior BJP functionary said he has checked the balance sheet of Delight Marketing Company. “It has not done any business in Bihar in the last 10 years, except buying the 2 acre plot of land near Saguna Mor. This further makes a strong case of benami property as Lalu family used people from RJD to get kickbacks on his behalf and later transfer the assets to his family to avoid legal scrutiny,” he said.
  
  SuMo said the land on which the mall is coming up actually belonged to Sujata Hotel Private Limited’s director Harsh Kochar who transferred the property to the Delight as part of thanksgiving exercise. RJD’s Rajya Sabha member and former Union minister Prem Chand Gupta’s wife Sarla Gupta held 70% of the shares in the company at that time. Lalu’s two sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap were made the company’s directors in 2014 and this is a ‘clear case of benami transaction’, he said.
