It’s been close to three years since Kottayam-based nurse Marina Jose reached home after spending 23 days in the captivity of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) militants in war-ravaged Iraq. 

 The 42-year-old along with 45 nurses were stranded in their hospital in Tikrit when the Civil War between the ISIS forces and the Iraqi army intensified.
 Their tale of desperation, fear, struggle, heroism and finally joy has now been made into a Mollywood film titled Take Off, starring  ,   and  .
 
  Marina, who was one of the senior nurses among the group, had played a pivotal role in getting the SOS message across to then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and in maintaining constant communication with the Indian ambassador to Iraq, A Ajay Kumar and other rescue teams during the crisis.
 
  Today, Marina is an embodiment of calm and says she finds the routine challenges as a homemaker much more relaxing, because of what she had been through in those 23 horrific days when she didn’t know if she would ever make it back alive. We listen in as she recounts how she and her group cheated death:
 
 
 
 Iraq was considered a warzone and so the news of bombings was an everyday affair. But in the weeks prior to the raid, the Iraqi doctors in our hospital told us that they feared for their lives as there were posters all over the city that claimed IS would take over. I had quit my job by then, as I wasn’t getting paid for months on end and had decided to leave the country. In fact, I had even gone to the nearest airport in Erbil, which is about 220 km from Tikrit. But since Erbil is part of Kurdistan, they refused to allow me to exit with my Iraqi visa. So, I had to come back to the hospital even though I was no longer employed there. If I could have gotten out that day, I wouldn’t have had to go through the 23-day ordeal that awaited me.
 
 
 
 It all began on the afternoon of June 13, 2014. We could hear heavy firing and bombing. It was like a wave of bone-chilling noise that kept lashing on non-stop for almost two hours. I called my father in Kerala and told him that the situation was dire, and asked him to inform Chief Minister (CM) Oommen Chandy. The CM’s PA got in touch with me the same day and I apprised him of what was happening. At that point, we had both patients and staff in the hospital. The internet was down, so we didn’t know what was going on outside. We were all hoarded up on the second floor of the hospital that had been converted into a dormitory. The militants had, by then, completely occupied the ground floor of the hospital. Every now and then, masked militants carrying guns would come up, and ask us to check on the patients downstairs. Terrified, we would accompany them and do as told. But in about 10 days, everyone had cleared out of the hospital, except us, the nurses.
 
 
 
 We ended up staying in the hospital for around 22 days. There were a few canteen staff that the militants refused to let go. Red Cross would also bring us food, but their vans would be checked thoroughly by the militants to ensure they weren’t smuggling any one of us out.
 So, we continued to be stranded on the second floor till one day there was an airstrike by the Iraqi forces. Helicopters were dropping missiles all around our building, shattering windows of the hospital as well. Cars would explode all around us and pretty much everything in the premises was set on fire. We just watched helplessly as buildings around our hospital turned into rubble. Car bombs would go off every now and then, and people kept screaming as they ran through the streets. It was nerve-racking. That day, the militants made us move to the basement. We crouched on the floor, with hands over our ears to block out the deafening noise. Once the airstrike was over, they asked us to go back to our dorm. This continued for another 11 agonising days.
  
 
 
 We were in constant touch with the Indian ambassador Ajay Kumar. He had informed the Iraqi army of our location, so they didn’t bomb the hospital. All that while, the people from the embassy would recharge our phones so that we could remain in touch with our families, Red Cross and the government officials. 
 
  On the 20th day, the militants said that we could leave. When we contacted the ambassador though, he forbade us from leaving the hospital. So, we told the militants we wanted some more time. But by then, we had all become tired. We were running low on food and water. The temperature was almost 46 degrees Celsius and the ACs weren’t working; we could hardly sleep. We had called every rescue organisation the previous few days and their reply was that they couldn’t get anywhere near us.
 When the militants came back the next day, we tried to buy some more time. We noticed there were two red buses parked outside the hospital. We thought it belonged to the Red Cross. But the ambassador cross-checked with the Iraqi army and informed us that they weren’t sent for us. That killed all our hopes.
 
 
 
 On the 22nd day, the militants were adamant that we clear out ASAP. I was on the phone with Oommen Chandy sir when they came back the second time and ordered us to leave in 10 minutes; they feared an airstrike. We didn’t know what to do — if we stayed we would die, if we left we had no clue where they would take us and if we hesitated, they’d even kill us. So, I told Chandy sir, ‘We can’t stay back any longer. If one of us dies, it will be a loss for everybody and we cannot risk it. We are leaving with them’. He asked us to go ahead.
 
 We all got out of the hospital. I told the militants that we would all travel in a single bus as we didn’t want to split up. We had luggage with us, which also had our certificates and documents, so it took time for us to get in. This made the militants impatient, maybe because they had already set a time bomb in the hospital. They started shooting at the windows randomly and everyone panicked. The glass shards also fell on some of us. So I asked everyone to get into the bus without wasting another minute.
 
 
 
 We asked them to take us to Erbil airport or any other airport nearby. At first they agreed, but after a few hours they told us they were taking us to Mosul, which is 85 km away from Erbil. Everyone was shocked but by then, we were all too weak to even react. It was scorching hot in the bus. However, we were in constant touch with the embassy and NORKA (Non Resident Keralites Affairs Dept.)
 
 
 
 When they noticed it, they asked us to hand over the phones to them. We were prepared for that scenario though. Whoever had two phones would give one to the militants and keep the other with them. But when they began taking away all our phones, we started panicking. Seeing the fear on our faces, they asked us to switch all our phones off. Some of us continued to type out messages in Malayalam so they wouldn’t understand what we wrote even if they caught us. But the bus had a lot of weapons including bombs. I informed the embassy officials about it so that they could come prepared for such a scenario if they intercepted the bus.
 
 
 
 It was! There were two militants in the bus; the others were following us in their cars. One was holding a gun and the driver was wearing a mask. But their actions would often horrify us. Sometimes they would start playing with grenades, which would make us think they are planning to blow up the entire bus. They would keep shouting at us and asking us to remain silent. That would scare us even more. Some of the ladies were about to collapse due to the heat, panic and thirst. All through the eight-hour journey they played an eerie IS anthem. We reached Mosul at around 8 PM. They took us to a heavily guarded fort that had massive walls. There were men with guns guarding the area. When we saw where we had reached we lost all hope.
 
 
 
 They led us in batches of 10. I was part of the second batch. They took us through a corridor which had men on either side holding guns. Then they showed us into a huge dusty prison hall that had nothing but a bronze vessel. The girls from the first batch told me the men had pointed their guns at them when they refused to get in. We sat in the corners of the room, which didn’t even have a plug point. We had to switch off our phones to conserve the battery. The toilet was dark and barely usable.
 
 Any hope of rescue we had was shattered that day. We contacted the ambassador and told him of our location. But the phone network was fluctuating. I called my sister in Kerala and she asked me not to worry; someone will come and rescue us, she reassured. We all prayed silently that day.
 It was Ramzan, so by midnight one of them asked me if we needed food. I said yes. They also brought soap, an emergency light and a few mattresses.
 
 
 
 On the morning of the final day, a militant told us that their leader was coming in to meet us. They asked us to wear our full-sleeved white coats and cover our heads and toes. We draped shawls around our heads. They took away our phones and made us sit in three rows. Their leader walked in with a group of men. Two of them were holding the IS flags. They began filming as the leader started talking to us in Arabic. We didn’t understand much but we could catch a few lines.
 
 He said, ‘There are nurses all over the world… they have come here to save us… so, we are not taking their lives; we are letting them go…’ He then asked one of us to look into the camera and say that we were not harmed. After that, they said we could leave.
 
 They arranged new buses to ferry us and escorted us till we reached the border, where they had an office. That’s where the militants left us. We were then waiting for the rescue team but they were not able to reach us. There was no phone network at the place, so our relatives started panicking as there was no contact for close to four hours. The rescue team was 5 km away but they were not allowed to enter the IS controlled area. The office staff then arranged another bus for us and sometime later, we finally reached them. We were taken to the military office, where they checked our documents and once we were cleared, we reached Erbil airport at night where a lot of people were waiting for us. We boarded the flight to India on July 5, after 23 days of trauma.
 
 
 
 Of the 46 nurses, I was one of the seniors. Plus, I had worked abroad before – in Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. Also, I had a political connection; my family knew Oommen Chandy sir so I could talk to him freely. A lot of people from NORKA and CK Menon from Qatar were in constant touch with us — that gave me some confidence. Though they would talk to us and reassure us, there was nothing else they could do.
 
 
 
 It was a traumatic period for me. My husband was in Qatar and my kids were in Kerala. I had hope that someone would rescue us but only till they took us to Mosul. Once we were there I lost all hope. I feared that they would kill us one by one. The militants could do anything to women and wouldn’t be held accountable. Every minute there, I was fearing that they would call my name. I would think of my children, about what would happen to them if I was killed.
 
 To be frank, I never thought I would get back. Our friends in Iraq still say that we just got lucky; that’s the only time the IS militants actually let someone go!
 
 
 
 Right now, I don’t think there can be anything more harrowing than what I have been through. I came face to face with death and escaped unscathed. What more can happen, right? I consider this a second lease of life that God has blessed me with.
 
 
 
 A lot of the girls actually went back to the Gulf. Some of them who didn’t get a job there, went to North India or Bangalore. The government had promised us priority in job interviews at private hospitals. I couldn’t attend the first interview because I had just gotten back to my children. I had two other interviews later. Most of us cleared these interviews as well, but never heard back from them. And gradually everybody forgot about the whole thing. I am 42 now and that’s above the permissible age limit, so that’s that.
 
 
 
 I didn’t except to make it out of there alive, let alone watch our story come alive on the screen! But yes, the director, Mahesh Narayanan, did meet me when he come up with the idea. I had narrated everything that happened to him. He had recorded what I said. Parvathy also came over to my place to see me and just to know how I was doing. We had a casual chat. From my understanding, the film will be a lot different from what actually happened in real life. But all of us want to see the movie and are eagerly waiting for it.
 
 
 
 
 
