THANE: A photograph by an accused travelling by train, showing snacks and fruit drink packs tucked into the berth, gave away the game of the robbers who had looted 32kg gold worth Rs 9 crore from a finance firm on December 26. Investigators tracked him down and his confessions led to others, including the mastermind. In all, three persons have been arrested and around three kg gold recovered.

 Police said a gang of 17 was involved in the daring hole-inwall heist at   in Ulhasnagar. The mastermind is believed to be an old hand at such robberies and followed a careful process of planting a security guard at the office, and then recceing it carefully before striking.
 
 After the robbery, cops of crime branch unit-1 had swung into action and, through informers and technical leads, learnt that one accused, Kamruddin Shaikh, 28, had left by train for his native Jharkand. “We found Shaikh's girlfriend and persuaded her to help track him.When he said he was on a train, we asked her to ask Shaikh to send a photo to convince her that he is indeed travelling,“ said a senior police officer. When he sent a shot of his berth, a Frooti and a Kurkure packet were found tucked into the netting of a side upper berth. He also told her that he had just passed Nashik. The investigators alerted the GRP, whose cops, going by the photo, trapped the youth near Bhusaval. Shaikh was brought to the crime branch and after interrogation, gave the name of Manoj Saud, a Diva resident, who was also held. After intense grilling, the duo named the mastermind,  , 44, of Samastipur in Bihar, who had gone to Miraj to sell the booty. On the basis of technical leads, he was traced to Turbhe station in Navi Mumbai, where he had returned after failing to find any takers, and was arrested, said the senior officer. Nearly 40 police personnel have fanned out in Jharkand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal to track the other accused, said Param Bir Singh, the Thane police commissioner.
 
 Mustafa is notorious for similarly daring heists across the country and is said to be involved in nearly a dozen such cases. One is a Rs 1-crore robbery at an SBI branch in Badlapur in May 2015, Singh added.
 
 “The gang had the same modus operandi: they first planted a security guard in the targeted place to gather information and help with the robbery . In this case too, they had planted security guard Karan Thapa,“ the police chief said.
 
 Acouple of days before the robbery, most of the gang members came as petty labourers and found jobs at an ice factory near the finance company . “Posing as workers, they helped with the recce, especially the number of visitors, the location of the safe and meticulously planned the heist,“ said the senior officer.With Thapa's help, they had checked the walls of the gold loan firm located in a housing society quietly for five-six days before choosing the weakest spot.
 
 The gas cutters used were brought from Kolkata and the other equipment from Kurla.The booty was distributed on the premises of the company itself and taken out in three vehicles. The gang members fanned out from there to different parts of the country.
 
