GURUGRAM: Around 10 lakh workers from Haryana and Rajasthan will skip a meal on Thursday in solidarity with the 31 convicts of the 2012  . The decision was announced at a worker’s union meeting on Wednesday. The unions have come together to rehabilitate the 117 workers who have been acquitted in the case, and make efforts to find employment for the families of the 31 convicts, in addition to contributing money for the families’ welfare and for further legal battles.

 Over 300 representatives from 150 workers’ unions, including six from   India Limited (MSIL), AITUC, CITU, HMS, and those from Rewari and Rajasthan, met in Tau Devi Lal Park in Manesar. After a five-hour-long meeting, it was decided that all workers from Gurgaon’s industrial sectors, including Udyog Vihar, Manesar, Sector 37 and Khandsa; Rewari’s Dharuhera and Bawal, along with Bhiwadi and Tapukara in Rajasthan, won’t eat their company-provided meals on Thursday, nor bring their own tiffins, thus effectively skipping a meal while doing their duties.
 
 As for future course of action, the unions have devised different plans for different categories of workers who were accused in the Maruti case.
 
 For the 18 workers accused of rioting, lawyers representing them will request the court to consider that the accused have already been in jail for four years. If that doesn’t work, or if the quantum of punishment given in the verdict is unacceptable for the unions, they will re-appeal in the high court for the 18, as well as for the 13 workers convicted of murder. Legal experts will be hired to challenge the verdict, due on March 17, Friday.
 
 Also, 6,000 workers from MSIL will contribute money for life insurances policies and fixed deposits in the names of the families of the 13 workers convicted of murder. They will also explore employment avenues for the families, look after the education of their children and pay their school fees.
 
 Additionally, they will try to rehabilitate the 117 acquitted workers by exploring employment avenues for them, and provided monetary help to those who would like to start their own business. Once the 18 rioting convicts are released, a rehabilitation process will begin for them too.
 
 “We have decided on ways to help each category of workers. We’ll rehabilitate the 117 workers who have been acquitted and the 18 rioting accused who will hopefully be released. We’ll arrange for legal help o 13 workers convicted of murder, and provide financial help to their families,” said Kuldeep Janghu, general secretary, Maruti Udyog Workers Union.
 
