AHMEDABAD: A special   court told the Gujarat high court that the   ( ) in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case has not complied with its “instructions” to get the necessary sanction for prosecution of the accused persons.

  The additional chief judicial magistrate of special   mentioned this in his report to the high court last month. The HC asked for it in response to a petition filed by   officer and former investigator of the encounter case, Satish Verma. He sought a copy of the supplementary chargesheet filed by the CBI in February 2014 before the CBI court, in which four IB officials have been implicated. They are then special joint director Rajinder Kumar, his subordinates Mukul Sinha, Rajiv Wankhede and T Mittal. They are accused of murder, criminal conspiracy, abduction and illegal detention of four persons – Ishrat Jahan, Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjad Ali Rana and Jishan Zohar.
 
 Verma has been seeking copies of two chargesheets filed by the CBI in the encounter case. The first was filed against eight Gujarat cops and it was taken on record by the court. The second chargesheet has not been taken on record. This was because the CBI could not provide a copy of the sanction order from the competent authority, the central home department in this case, for criminal prosecution of the intelligence officials. The court hence refused to part with a certified copy of the document when Verma insisted on a copy.
 
 Explaining the status to the HC, the CBI judge said, “Hence, when there is absence of requisite sanction order and non-compliance of the instructions given by this court to the IO, the documents which are not available with the record of this court were not provided to the applicant (Verma).”
 
 After this report, the HC issued notice to the CBI to respond to Verma’s petition for a copy of the chargesheet. A hearing on this is posted for March 29.
 
 There was a political controversy over the investigation of this case last year when David Coleman Headley was examined by a special prosecutor with regard to Ishrat’s alleged association with a Pakistan-based terrorist outfit. 
 
 Verma, who has been posted in the North-eastern region, sought copies of the chargesheets and argued that he suspected that there would be a miscarriage of justice in this case.
 
