Panaji: The Indian   and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLA Navy) helped thwart a pirate attack on Saturday off the Gulf of Aden. After the Indian Navy swung into action and undertook anti-piracy operations, the   abandoned the bulk cargo vessel, which had sent out a distress signal.

 The Tuvalu-registered cargo vessel, with 19 Filipino crew members, was travelling from Kelang in Malaysia to the port city of Aden in Yemen when it was attacked by Somali pirates, naval sources said.
 
 Both the Indian Navy and the PLA Navy responded to the distress signal. While the Indian Navy deployed the INS Mumbai and INS Tarkash, PLA Navy’s missile frigate Yulin responded to the piracy attack.
 
 An Indian Navy helicopter undertook aerial reconnaissance of the merchant vessel at night, and helped sanitize the upper decks of the merchant ship the next morning.
 
 “A distress call was received from a foreign merchant vessel MV OS 35, which was attacked and boarded by pirates in the Gulf of Aden late night on April 8. Indian Navy ships Mumbai, Tarkash, Trishul and Aditya proceeding on deployment to the Mediterranean and passing through the Gulf of Aden, responded to the call and rapidly closed the merchant vessel by the early hours of April 9,” a spokesperson for the Indian Navy said.
 
 As per standard operating procedure, the Indian warships established contact with the captain of MV OS 35. The captain of the vessel informed the Indian warships that the crew members had locked themselves in a strong room on board.
 
 Subsequently, in a show of international maritime cooperation against piracy, a boarding party from the nearby Chinese Navy ship went on board the merchant ship, while the Indian Naval helicopter provided air cover for the operation.
 
 With the Indian Navy's helicopter providing protection and confirming that no pirates were visible on the upper decks, the vessel’s crew members emerged from the strong room and carried out a search of the ship and ascertained that the pirates had fled the ship at night, the Indian Navy said in a release.
 
 
