PATNA: Police on Thursday attributed the murder of state BJP’s business cell chief Krishna Shahi to his alleged illicit affair.

 The 40-year-old’s body was recovered from a well in Sendhwaria Manjha village under the Phulwaria police station area in Gopalganj district on Wednesday morning. 
 
 Police have arrested Krishna’s aide Aditya Rai on the charge of poisoning him to death. “Aditya had mixed pesticide in Krishna’s food because he was angry with the politician for developing an illicit relationship with his sister,” Gopalganj SP Ravi Ranjan Kumar told TOI over the phone.
 
 Police said Krishna knew Aditya for over five years. A father of a boy and a girl, Krishna allegedly developed an affair with Aditya’s sister who is in her early 20s. Krishna’s wife Shanta Shahi, whom he married in 2008, is the mukhiya of Chainpur panchayat, the native village of the deceased. 
 
 According to the SP, Aditya has confessed to the crime. He told police he came to know about the illicit relationship a fortnight back.
 
 On Tuesday evening, Krishna visited Aditya’s house to attend the “shraddh” of Aditya’s grandfather Lal Babu Rai. “Aditya told police Krishna on his return to Chainpur called his sister to say he would again come to meet her after three hours,” the SP said and added Aditya had overheard the conversation following which he purchased pesticide from a village shop.
 
 When Krishna came again late in night, Aditya opened the gate of his house. Taken by surprise, Krishna told him that police had raided his house and he had come to hide from police, the SP said and added Aditya served him pesticide-mixed food.
 
 The SP further quoted Aditya as having told police that after eating the food, Krishna became restless and ran out towards the village well into which he fell.
 
 According to the SP, police grew suspicious when they came to know about Krishna’s second visit to Aditya’s village late in night and that too only with his driver Sunil Manjhi in a different SUV. Sunil’s varying statements added to the police’s suspicion.
 
 “Our investigations are still on. We are gathering technical evidence,” the SP said.
 
 
