KOLKATA: The   crackdown against fill-up of bheris in the   has changed the   and brokers from Bantala to Bamanghata. Till Tuesday afternoon, the former roamed the belt on motorcycles with an air of authority. Land brokers hung around in tea stalls at market places and at bamboo shelters near bheris to lure fish workers with the promise of paying a few lakhs if they relinquished work and allowed the bheri to be drained. On Wednesday, however, the men on motorcycles were nowhere to be seen. 

 Sources said they would lie low for a while to see if it was a one-off action by the cops. Brokers hung around in groups, discussing the developments in hushed undertones. As for fish workers and farmers who have been residing in the wetlands for three generations, there is an element of surprise and shock, unused as they are to seeing police action against the powerful nexus of builders, brokers, politicians and police. 
 
 While EKWMA has been filing FIRs for a while now, the build-up of internal administrative pressures coupled with media reports and letters from wetland activists to the environment minister seem to have forced the police to act on Tuesday. In the past, police action in these type of conversion and violation cases has always been tardy and insufficient.
 
 The initial mood of celebration among activists has been tempered by the realization that most of them are workers. The kingpins, including the two named in the FIR by EKWMA — Motilal Mondal and Biswajit Biswas — are absconding. The duo is allegedly involved in shady land deals in the belt and specialize in fill-up of waterbodies and construction of houses on that land.
 
 Sonarpur MLA Firdosi Begum tried to pass the buck to the previous CPM regime. “The fill-up activity has been going on for years. Trinamool gained control of the panchayat only three years ago. On learning about the nexus, we informed authorities,” she claimed. Residents, however, say local political leaders were not only aware of the encroachments, they also reaped financial benefit.
 
 With crores at stake, the nexus extends far beyond the local politician, muscleman and cop. Flow of waste water to bheris have been deliberately reduced, affecting fish production. Also, no attempt has been made to make the locals aware of the global recognition EKWMA received in 2012 following their eco-friendly, sustainable livelihood activities. There is no signboard declaring that it has been designated a Ramsar site. Neither has a 1992 Calcutta HC order that saved the wetlands from destruction ever been translated in Bengali for the locals to understand its import.
 
 
