Bhopal: Singed by scams,   is on an image makeover exercise. The government agency, which conducts entrance tests for professional courses for students and exams to recruit candidates for government and semi-government departments, will now have interaction with students on a regular basis. 

 The agency will hold one-on-one every second and fourth Friday of the month. On two days, Vyapam authorities will interact with students in open house for an hour each. The interaction schedule will be out from next month. 
 
 Vyapam director Bhaskar Lakshakar said the objective is to bridge a gap between students and Vyapam. “I receive several calls from students. We answer and address their queries. But it has been noticed solving issues of students individually won’t help other students. Direct conversation in the presence of other students will help a large population,” said Lakshakar. 
 
 He made it clear students would be encouraged to raise any query before authorities. “Such interaction will help us. We expect suggestions from students so that changes in exam process can be made for their benefit,” he said.
 
 Vyapam has decided to answer queries of 100 students on each interaction day. “We will increase capacity for students on the basis of response,” he said. 
 
 Besides, a 20-minute video on youtube has been uploaded describing how to fill forms for exams and what precautions students must take in submitting forms. It includes dos after entering the exam hall. Youtube video is available from Saturday.
 
 For students, who file complaint against evaluation, will be provided findings of the probe committee so that they can cross-check why they were not given marks on a particular question. Now, merit list will be available with marks on official website. 
 
 From keeping tabs on activities of students during exams to providing maps to help them reach examination centres without hassles, Vyapam has made several changes in last one year to bolster its image. Vyapam has started maintaining log records of students.
 
 About other initiatives, Lakshakar said, “Students will get map on admit cards. The idea is make it easier for them to reach exam centres from bus stand or railways station. This will be a big help for students coming to Bhopal from others places. The will not have to waste time in searching for exam centres.”
 
 
