HYDERABAD: In a major move to plug   in   in Hyderabad, the Telangana government roped in Indian Institute of Technology (Hyderabad) to prepare a comprehensive   tracking programme. 

 The programme is aimed to give a push to tax collection in the state in general and in Hyderabad in particular. The IIT-Hyderabad team will be preparing a software to track the goods and raw material coming into the state or passing through different check-posts to figure out the tax to be collected.
 
 “A team from IIT-Hyderabad is analysing the data and will submit a report very soon. Our association with IIT-Hyderabad will certainly result in higher tax realisation from Hyderabad city and also other major areas,” Somesh Kumar, principal secretary, revenue, said.
 
 There has been a plethora of complaints that the commercial tax department has been turning a blind eye to the large-scale tax evasion in the state. The vigilance and enforcement department, which is supposed to identify tax evaders and impose penalties on them, has been unable to arrest the rampant evasion, especially from the manufacturing sector.
 
  IIT-Hyderabad has proposed tracking of goods from through different check-posts and figure out how much quantity of raw material has been imported by a company and how much it finally showed in its tax return. Similarly, for hotels which enjoy huge daily traffic, the team has proposed several innovative methods to figure out the actual turnover of the hotel.
 
 “Last year we have collected Rs 31,300 crore tax revenue and by implementing the innovative methods, we expect an increase of 10 to 15 per cent in the total collection,” said Somesh Kumar.
 
 The IIT-H team has been asked to identify the business houses which have turnovers running into several crores of rupees every month but seldom pay tax properly to the government. 
 
 To break the unholy alliance of the vigilance, commercial tax officials and traders, the team is working on a new software that will identify the disparities in the actual turnover and the tax paid by the traders. The commercial tax department is held by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao, who directed the senior officials to think innovatively on plugging the revenue leakages in the system. 
 
 The department, with the help of IIT-H, is expecting a huge increase in the overall tax collection by dragging more number of traders into the tax net.
 
 
