NAGPUR: Chief minister   and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari may be claiming that the   will be completed by December 2018 but the reality is that it will not be fully ready before first quarter of 2020. Even this is only if there are no unforeseen delays. The project will be at least delayed by a year.

 Mahesh Kumar, Mahametro’s director (project), said, in spite of the delay there would be no cost escalations. “The cost will increase by 2% at the most due to the delay but we have reduced the cost by 8% as compared to detailed project report (DPR) estimate. So, the extra expenditure will be easily offset. Moreover, we do not have cost escalation clauses in three of the four viaduct construction contracts,” he told TOI.
 
 It is not that Metro will not become operational before 2020. The trial run of Mihan depot to Airport stretch is expected in second half of this year. Metro will start plying between Mihan and Sitabuldi in first half of 2018. The other stretches will become operational one by one after an interval of about six months.
 
 The Sitabuldi to Automotive Square (Kamptee Road) stretch will be the last to be completed. Its civil work will be over by December 2019 and the trains will start plying on it in first quarter of 2020. 
 
 Commenting on reasons for delay, Kumar said that documents pertaining to work awarding process had to be cleared by German lending agency   at every stage - tendering, technical evaluation, financial evaluation and letter of agreement (LoA). “We are constructing the Mihan depot to Sitabuldi and Hingna depot to Sitabuldi stretches using government money and hence the tender process was quite fast. However, there is delay in case of Sitabuldi to Wardhaman Nagar and Sitabuldi to Automotive Square stretches. In the first case, LoA is awaiting clearance from KfW. In the second case, the tender document is being evaluated by KfW,” he told TOI.
 
 Mahametro expects work on the last stretch to start in June 2017. The construction period as per the tender document is 30 months. “The period for construction of other stretches is 25.5 months. However, we have to construct a four-kilometer long double decker flyover in this stretch and hence it will take longer,” Kumar further said.
 
 According to the official, Mahametro will take steps to expedite work on the Kamptee Road stretch. “We will start work on the stations before viaduct construction starts. The design of this stretch is ready and thus the contractor’s time will be saved,” he said.
 
