NAGPUR: Madhukar Kimmatkar, member of Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (VSDB), has termed the governor’s directives for allocation of irrigation funds in 2017-18 as highly unjust towards Vidarbha. The board members would soon meet the governor and urge him to change them, he said.

 Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Kimmatkar said the parameters for region-wise allocation of irrigation funds were patently wrong. “Fifty per cent weightage has been given to cropped area and 50% to population of a region. If   is to get more funds on account of Mumbai’s population, then it makes no sense. If at all population is to be a parameter then 90% weightage should be given to rural population and 10% to urban,” he added.
 
 The Vidarbha backlog expert further said that cropped area too was a wrong parameter for determining allocation of irrigation funds. “What is the point in taking irrigated area into consideration? Only the area under dryland agriculture should be considered,” he added.
 
 Kimmatkar said the governor should also have considered water available in a region while fixing the allocation. “Western Maharashtra and Marathwada have fully consumed their share of water whereas the corresponding figure for Vidarbha is only one-third,” he said.
 
 The Vidarbha protagonist further said that the cost of ongoing irrigation projects should also be considered while determining the allocation. “If all the four criteria are considered then Vidarbha should get at least 50% allocation,” he added.
 
 The expert also slammed successive governments for neglecting farm roads in the district. “If achievement of target in road sector is considered, Nagpur is second worst. The figure for most districts of Western Maharashtra and Marathwada is 100% while in Nagpur only 61% of the target has been achieved,” he said.
 
 “Due to lack of all weather roads, farmers of the district are unable to transport their produce from the farms to the market. This problem is especially acute in areas which have irrigation canals, as they frequently overflow. Therefore, farm roads should be given priority over irrigation. If the government does not take concrete steps within 15 days, I will launch an agitation with the help of district’s farmers. I am ready to sit on a hunger strike too,” he said.
 
