CHENNAI: Heads, arms and legs poking out dangerously while a packed MTC bus makes a sharp turn - this is not an altogether unusual sight for anyone acquainted with the city. But what is unsettling, however, is the fact that many of these belong to children heading to school. 

 On Monday, the   stated that all government buses ferrying schoolchildren must conform to guidelines on student safety given that 2/3rds of all children commuting by buses opt for public transport, as noted by the bench. The rules laid out by the government for the express purpose of transporting schoolchildren are outlined in the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Regulation and Control of School buses) Special Rules, 2012. This prescribes a long list of ‘safety norms’ including having on board a complete first aid kit for emergencies, two fire extinguishers, a grilled partition for the driver, safety window grills, an attendant (or conductor) to help students board and deboard, among others. 
 
 Parents of students welcomed the court order and expressed the hope that it would make the daily commute of children safer but expressed scepticism on its implementation. Saritha Dilip, whose 14-year-old son takes an MTC bus every morning to his school in Mandaveli, asks what kind of safety measures can buses take when they are not even able to stop people from boarding and deboarding while the bus is still plying. “MTC buses don’t stick to any passenger limits either and are usually overcrowded during office and school hours. Under these conditions, how can they ensure safety of schoolkids?” she questions. 
 
 While noting that   have dipped over the past year, Ashwathy Dilip of ITDP (Institute for Transportation & Development Policy) says that the government should first act on controlling long-ingrained practices like speeding and footboard travel. Calling these non-negotiable, she says controlling them will be crucial in facilitating a modicum of safety to begin with. Changing how commuters commute, she explains, is the first step to ensuring safety. “Getting a first aid box, or a set of fire extinguishers, are simpler measures that can be taken too, to give the vehicle a degree of safety,” she adds. 
 
