MUMBAI: Police  ,   tests and camera coverage are some terms school principals are familiarizing themselves with, in the aftermath of a seven-year-old’s murder at Ryan International School, Gurgaon. School principals in the city have begun to consult   experts to ensure measures are in place to keep their premises safe.

 A day after   issued   guidelines for its schools, several principals across boards attended a workshop at Utpal Shanghvi Global School on Thursday to understand what best they can do. They met under the umbrella of Mumbai International   Association (MISA). 
 
 Speaking at the gathering, Raju Srivastava, a former policeman, said, “Principals must report the smallest incident to the police. They must build a rapport with the local   station and have personnel visit them often. This will deter people from indulging in any wrongdoing.”
 
 He also advised principals to create a standard operating procedure for all tasks and delegate it to experts. “‘Document and delegate’ should be the mantra. All tasks must be delegated to experts and regular audits must be undertaken. Communication about issued raised between principals and managements must be put on record,” said Srivastava.
 
 Also speaking at the event, Rohan Bhatt, trustee, Children’s Academy Group of Schools, said it was necessary for schools to conduct regular legal training for staff. “This would mean a lot of repetition and might trouble some, but rules and laws need to be drilled into the staff’s mind. In case a school enters into a contract with an operator for school buses, basics such as licenses, fitness certificates, PUC and registration, taxation and insurance documents must be checked and rechecked,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, CBSE school principals have welcomed the board’s new safety guidelines, which include getting psychometric tests. “The things that are happening around alarming and we need to act. The idea is very good but we meeting our managements because it will require resources to get it done. Police must also cooperate with us to get verification certificates for our staff,” said Deepshika Srivastava, principal, Rajhans Vidyalaya, Andheri.
 
 While several schools are worried about where and how to get psychometric tests done, professionals said it should not be difficult. “There are dozens of institutes that conduct various psychometric tests and this could cost between Rs 1,500 and Rs 5,000 per person. It would require less than an hour of one-on-one time to do these tests. It will help schools hire better because the standardized tests reflect how a person would react in a situation,” said Khyati Kacheria, a neuro psychotherapist. City schools have already made inquiries at these institutes. 
 
 
