

  Memes and famous lines from Marathi films, including  , too will grace the police's Twitter and Facebook pages. So don't be surprised if you are called a `Cheater' or warned about a `One Way Ticket' by the police.Who knows, even Archi might throw her famous dialogue `English madhe sangitlela samjat nahi? Marathit sangu?' at you.
 
  Taking the innovative way that the Mumbai and Bangalore police have experimented with previously, the Pune police's aim is to attract the attention of youngsters by associating rules and messages with something they know. Recently, the traffic police also ran a campaign where violators had an encounter with Yamraj, the God of Death. People breaking rules were asked by Yamraj whether they wanted to follow him to hell. This drive was a hit on the social media and the police want to bank on the reach of the medium further. Deepak Sakore, former DCP (cyber-crime) who is now DCP (Zone 4), had initiated the process of making social media updates more interesting. He says, “We feel that to reach youngsters, who are more vulnerable to crimes, short and interesting messages online can not only prevent them from falling prey to these but also help create awareness about law and order.“ The right twist to the message will ensure better impact.”
 
  He also informs that a lot of creative people are helping them voluntarily in the process. “Putting a punchline as a message effectively increases its reach and impact. We are going to do exactly that,” informs  , cyber expert for the city police, who is handling their social media handles.
 
  After being active on the social media for over a year, Pune police is finally taking a lighter approach towards their posts.  , commissioner of police, says, “We started out with plain and simple messages to share the seriousness of the issues. But now we will add a dash of humour, use memes and puns to make it more interesting without losing the essence of the message. We have observed that such messages leave a lasting impression on the citizens' minds.”
 
  Shedding light on why it took them so long to go this way, Ghode adds, “The situations in Mumbai and Pune are very different. Our main aim in the last year was to get noticed on social media. Now that we have a considerable number of followers, we are adopting this route to make our posts more attractive.”
 
  With an eye on tapping youngsters, the police will launch their new social media campaign in June citing the start of a new academic year.  , current DCP (cyber-crime), informs “Moving ahead we will be visiting college campuses and organising activities in order to make students aware about our initiatives and social media presence.”
 
 
