CHENNAI:   care brand   andNargis Dutt Foundation launch a social cause campaign ‘My Hair for Cancer’ to help   patients battle hair loss due to chemotherapy. 

 Apoorva Shah, founder, Richfeel, stated, “Cancer patients fear losing hair and subsequently have low self-esteem and confidence. We at Richfeel strive to give back a person his/her confidence by providing free hair systems during their fight for cancer along with free hair kits to help regain hair, and hence have partnered with   to work towards awareness of early cancer detection. If diagnosed early, the treatment has positive outcomes. Using hair as a medium of expression, we will work towards raising awareness of early detection.”
 
 Nargis Dutt Foundation, which has closely been associated with the cause of cancer, is extremely happy to be a part of this initiative. 
 
 Priya Dutt, trustee, Nargis Dutt Foundation, who was present for the launch event of ‘My Hair for Cancer’ campaign, said: “When you cut it don't waste it, share it with someone who needs it. Donate your hair for a cancer patient.” 
 
 The cause is so dear to her that she along with Dr. Sonal Shah, co-founder, Richfeel were the first ones to donate their hair for the cause of cancer.
 
 “Through this initiative we are asking all to donate their hair for cancer patients. The donated hair will be used to create hair systems for cancer patients, and the donors in return will receive free cancer screening. We have partnered with Lakme salons and CPAA (Cancer Patients Aid Association) for this noble cause,” said Seema Singh Bhadoria, CEO, Richfeel Health and Beauty Pvt Ltd.
 
 Y K Sapru, chairman & CEO, Cancer Patient’s Aid Association (CPAA), said: “The incidence of cancer is increasing at a phenomenal rate in India. Today with the help of awareness and early detection of cancer we are making individuals aware about the disease - how one could reduce its incidence, detect it in its earlier stage where chances of recovery are very high. Cancer can be a frightening disease but if we are together, it can be easily defeated.”
 
 
