MYSURU: The  , assessing the  , will submit its report to the Union government early next week.

 The NDA government has deputed three separate teams led by senior officials for on-the-ground assessment, which are now touring the affected areas in Kalaburagi, Belagavi and Mysuru revenue divisions.
 
 The Mysuru team, which started its assignment from Chamarajanagar on Friday, visited the affected areas in Mysuru and Hassan districts on Saturday. The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) leader Jalaj Srivatsava, who is additional secretary to the Union ministry of agriculture, said that the three teams will meet senior officials from Karnataka in Bengaluru and discuss the situation on Monday. “We will submit the report after Tuesday,” he told reporters at Jayapura in Mysuru taluk during the team’s visit to the affected areas. He said people have been affected due to drought in the area, and require assistance. “Back-to-back drought has impacted the  ,” he stated.
 
 Ministry of finance joint director M M Sachdeva, Niti Ayog research officer Anuradha, Central Water Resource Commission superintendent engineer V Mohan Murali were part of the team that visited some villages, interacted with the villagers there and collected details from officials. Mysuru DC D Randeep, additional DC T Venkatesh, additional director of agriculture Somasundrappa, animal husbandry deputy director Prasad Murthy, deputy director of horticulture Manjunath assisted the team.
 
 At Jattihundi in Mysuru taluk, the team was approached by villagers, complaining that they are facing problems related to drinking water as the borewell in the village has dried up. The district administration is supplying water through tankers, which the villagers said is not enough. They sought addition supply of water. They also requested the officials to extend additional fodder for their cattle. 
 
 At Jayapura, the team visited the fodder bank and collected details. Randeep explained to the team that farmers have been extended 33kg of haystack for Rs 100. The government has been giving Rs 3 subsidy for every kg of haystack bought by them, he added.
 
 However, the villagers asked the officials to set up a goshala where they can leave their cattle. They also said that don’t have money to spare for fodder.
 
