PUNE: The Cantonment police have arrested two foreign nationals from Goa in connection with the theft of diamond-studded   bangles worth Rs 4.50 lakh from a jewellery store on   in Camp. 

 Police probe has revealed that the two suspects, who hail from a West Asian country, have been criminally active in India for the last 10 years with theft cases registered against them in Gurgaon, Bengaluru, Delhi and UP.
 
 The suspects, who claimed to have destroyed their passports, would jump the bail granted by courts in earlier cases and move to various locations to commit crime, police said.
 
  Following the theft in Pune, police studied the   footages obtained from shops located on the Centre Street and found the suspects travelling in a car bearing a Goa registration number. With the help of the regional transport office (RTO) in Goa, police traced the address of the vehicle owner - a car rental service provider - from whom the duo had hired the vehicle and got the cell number of the person who took the car on rent. 
 
 The cell phone led the police to the duo's location in Goa, their arrest and the eventual recovery of the stolen bangles.
 
 Assistant inspector Vitthal Salunkhe and constables Yuvraj Kamble and   travelled to Goa to arrest the suspects, who were brought to Pune on Monday evening. Salunkhe identified the suspects as Simon Corkteze (39) and   (52). "They have thrown away their passports but have confirmed their original addresses. They are staying in India for the last 10 years," Salunkhe said and added the two were arrested on earlier occasions by the police in Uttar Pradesh, Gurgaon, Delhi and Bengaluru. The duo would resort to thefts every time they exhausted their money, he added.
 
 Inspector Vaishali Chandgude said that the images of the suspects were captured by the CCTV cameras of the shop from where they had stolen the bangles while the police had obtained the footage from all the CCTV cameras installed on the Centre Street. "One of the cameras had recorded the two suspects sitting in a car while another had recorded the registration number of the car. The car was registered with the Goa RTO," Salunkhe said.
 
