KOLKATA:   resurrected their   campaign with a commanding performance that saw them sweep aside defending champions   3-0 at the   on Saturday.

 Captain Katsumi Yusa was the star of the show. The Japanese midfielder scored once in each half and   got the other to give Bagan a fluent start as the I-League action resumed after a three-week break.
 
 The win helped the green and maroons to move up to 26 points from 13 matches. Third-placed Bagan are now four points behind leaders Aizawl FC and one behind  . Bagan, however, have a game in hand. With very little chance of successfully defending their I-League title, Bengaluru FC's priority is now the AFC Cup. With one eye on their next match against Maziya Sports and Recreation Club of Maldives in the continental competition on Tuesday, BFC coach Albert Roca fielded a starting XI sans Sunil Chhetri and  . Clearly outplayed by Bagan, BFC remained stuck on 18 points from 14 games.
 
 Apart from the victory that came a week before the Kolkata Derby against East Bengal in Siliguri on April 9, Bagan coach   must have been pleased with the sparking display by Sony Norde.
 
 The Haitian playmaker may not have scored a goal but was the architect of all three even as he strode the pitch with confidence, stamping his class and authority on the visiting team. Sony, who returned the city in the early hours of Friday after doing duty with his national team, was included in the starting XI. He betrayed no signs of jet lag and provided the first spark of the game in the fourth minute when he shook off Sandesh Jhingan and Udanta Singh with sublime footwork before sending in cross which was, however, too weak to trouble BFC goalkeeper Amrinder Singh.
 
 Katsumi had a goal ruled out for off-side in the 10th minute but he made his next effort count four minutes later. Sony controlled the ball nicely before squaring it to Katsumi just outside the rival box. The Bagan skipper broke into the box, made space for himself before firing in his shot that rolled over the goalline after taking a touch off Amrinder. 
 
