Hyderabad: Over two years after leaving IT giant Infosys,   Gopalakrishnan said that he is still “emotionally connected” to the company he helped set up. “You cannot emotionally walk away from something that you have built over your lifetime… but you also prepare yourself ... to create a second innings. But if there is a news about Infosys, I am the first one to read about it or try to read about it... Infosys’s best interest is always in my mind…Whether I am able to help or not..,” Gopalakrishnan said while addressing the students at the ISB Dean’s Speaker Series here on Friday.

 In his second innings, Gopalakrishnan has become chairman of Axilor -- an accelerator and seed fund that he co-founded along with SD Shibulal (also an Infosys co-founder), among others. Gopalakrishnan said this is one of the best times to be an entrepreneur in India. “At a time when every single industry is going to be transformed and every single industry is getting disrupted, it is the best time to start your own business because disruptive ideas, by and large, come from new businesses as existing businesses end up defending their turf… ,” he said. He cited the example of the automotive industry that is going to transform due to self-driving vehicles as well as the healthcare industry that is undergoing transformation due to precision medicine, apart from the fintech industry.
 
 He also had a word of advice for entrepreneurs. He said that before starting up, it is important to ensure that there is an “alignment of purpose” among all the co-founders of the startup. “This is a journey and you do not want people to leave. When Infosys was started, our goal was to create a globally respected corporation…There was a perfect alignment. We all were from middle class and for us respect was the most important thing. And that drove everything…,” he explained. Meanwhile, he also also urged the aspiring entrepreneurs to evaluate their personal circumstances before taking the plunge into the world of building an enterprise as the stakes are high.
 
 
