BENGALURU:   said it has incurred $27 million in costs related to the   (FCPA) investigation and related lawsuits. The Nasdaq-listed company expects to continue to incur expenses related to these matters in 2017 and future periods, it said in its annual report released on Wednesday, and added that the whole matter could have a material adverse effect on its business.

 Last year, the company voluntarily notified to the US department of justice and the   (SEC) that the company was investigating payments related to company-owned facilities in India that were possibly made improperly and in violation of FCPA and other applicable laws. In the latest earnings call, CFO Karen McLoughlin said the company had identified a total of approximately $6 million in potentially improper payments relating to company-owned facilities in India.
 
 Cognizant said that based on the results of the investigation to date, “the members of senior management who may have participated in or been aware of the making of the identified potentially improper payments and failed to take action to prevent the making of the identified potentially improper payments are no longer with the company or in a senior management position.”
 
 In October and November 2016, three putative securities class action complaints related to the investigation were also filed, naming the company and some of its current and former officers as defendants and alleging violations of the SEC Act of 1934. “The plaintiffs collectively seek awards of compensatory damages, among other relief, and their costs and attorneys’ and experts’ fees,” it said. In February, the three class actions were consolidated by the court.
  
 In February, a fourth shareholder derivative complaint asserting similar claims was filed, naming Cognizant and some of its directors as defendants. “The complaints allege among other things that certain of our public disclosures were false and misleading by failing to disclose that payments allegedly in violation of the FCPA had been made and by asserting that management had determined that our internal controls were effective,” Cognizant said.
 
 The company said it is currently unable to predict the duration, scope or result of the investigations and class action suits. It said the actual cost of the litigation will depend upon many unknown factors and the outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain. "As such, these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, annual or interim results of operations, cash flows or our financial condition," it said.
 
