NEW DELHI: The death of two brothers in a washing machine in Rohini on Saturday, horrifying as it is, is not an isolated case. While parents take great pains to make their home safe for their children, the washing machine never engages anyone's mind as a potential killing machine. Not surprisingly, therefore, the household appliance has led to the death of many children across the world. 

  There are umpteen reports of deaths through accident in washing machines. In July 2016, three-year-old Alexis Haney died of "scaling and thermal injuries" in Arkansas, US, after she apparently climbed into a top-loading washing machine and pulled the lid down on her. The machine was programmed to start as soon as the lid closed. Her mother was taking a nap at the time.
 
  In another case in 2013, eerily similar to the incident in Rohini, two Chinese sisters, aged 2 and 4, died after climbing into a laundry machine kept on a balcony outside their house. A report in the South China Morning Post said the incident occurred when both the parents were present at home - the mother had been cooking in the kitchen and the father had been watching TV in another room. 
 
  In 2010, a woman in Oklahoma was arrested for negligence for accidently bundling in her daughter into the washing machine along with the pile of laundry. The machine had completed a full cycle of around 40 minutes before the baby's crumpled body was discovered among the clothes inside the machine. 
 
  After her 21-month-old son drowned in a washing machine, Tiffany Hebb of Utah often narrates her tragic story on television networks. She says that parents never take the laundry machines to be a danger and wants to make them aware of its deadly potential. In 2012, her son was helping her with the laundry. After some time, she noticed he was missing and went searching for him before realising with horror that he had fallen into the washing tub and had drowned. 
 
  Often, parents of small children take precautions like taping off the  ,   in the house and keeping the doors to balconies closed. Little attention, however, is paid to the laundry room. 
 
 In fact, a 2003 paper in the   on injuries caused by washing machines in the US found that the maximum number of such incidents involved children aged between 1 and 2 years. 
 
 The   has estimated that around 19,109 washing machine-related injuries occurred between 1993 and 2000, involving children under the age of 15.
 
