JALANDHAR: Led by Akal Takht former jathedar Prof Manjit Singh, a dozen Sikh and other organizations have announced to extend support to “good” candidates of   (AAP) and Congress, while also giving a call to defeat SAD in the February 4 assembly elections in Punjab. They claimed that they had picked the names of candidates either on the basis of their past credentials or in view of the political realities at the ground level to ensure defeat of some prominent Akali leaders.

 Releasing the list, the organizations said it was important to send good people to the assembly for the sake of Punjab’s betterment. “We think that people who come to power or occupy opposition seats should be good people So, we have come together to support good candidates while rising above party considerations,” they said in a joint statement issued during a press conference held here on Monday.
 
 Others present at the conference included SGPC member Hardeep Singh Mohali, author Gurbachan Singh, North American Punjabi Association executive director Satnam Singh Chahal, Akal Students Federation secretary Sukhdev Singh, Sheikh Ul Hind Educational and Welfare Society president Gulam Sarvar Sabba.
 
 The AAP candidates who have been extended support include H S Phoolka (Dakha constituency), Sukhpal Singh Khaira (Bholath), Kanwar Sandhu (Kharar), Manjit Singh Sidhu (Rampura Phool), and Jagjot Singh Dhillon (Rajasansi). Congress candidates finding support are: Capt   (Patiala), Ramanjit Singh Sikki (Khadoor Sahib), Olympian Pargat Singh ( ),   (Abohar) and Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia (Majitha).
 
 Apart from them, Bains brothers have also been included in the list. They also argued that from Lambi and Jalalabad they were urging people not to divide their votes and to ensure the defeat of Badal senior and junior, respectively. “We know that some of these leaders have even been issuing statements against each other, but we have nothing to do with their parties and positions. We are taking this line for the sake of Punjab only, not any party,” they said.
 
 “As we are extending support to these candidates of AAP and Congress, we are aware of the weaknesses of the two parties. We are also aware of the shady characters in these two parties. We are taking this step in view of political reality and the prevailing situation,” the leaders of the organizations said.
 
 They held that they were not extending blind support to any party as past experience showed that parties exploited sentiments of the people. They also appealed to the voters “to support a candidate who is strong in their respective area and has better character and credential”.
 
