What do you do till 2am? Do you save people? This was a ‘family-iar’ jingle playing in my ears when I first joined advertising.

 According to the audience we write for, we, the creators of 30-second   and radio spots, interrupt people’s favourite TV programmes. Years later, when I joined  , my boss told me cryptically. “Sumitra, we are in the business of keeping the love alive.” 
 
 It took me a while to understand what he meant, but I did. 
 
 To all these doubters, I say confidently: We are the ‘love gurus’. Brands come to us for relationship advice, on how to keep the love alive between them and their consumers. So you see, we teach brands how to flirt gracefully. We show them how to bring out the roses, the chocolates and the wine. And how to emulate the love bards. We pull out the red dress and the natty suit. Because this is the ‘date’ phase, when both   and consumer are at their best. 
 
 The ‘date’ phase leads to what I call the ‘getting serious’ phase, when we make consumers feel this is the one brand that adds meaning to their lives. That’s when shared passions, likes and dislikes come in, with both brand and consumer delving deeper into each other, to see whether they can get serious.
 
 Getting serious culminates in the ‘let’s meet the parents’ phase. This is when the brand is not just talking to its lovers but a wider audience of family. Because, without the family, the consumer won’t materialise into a life partner. Now, here’s when we advise the brand to adapt its spots, change its wardrobe, mute the makeup, cut down the ‘f’ words, and mature its conversation. This is when a love for tradition starts creeping in, as the brand readies to step into the family.
 
 Next up is the ‘honeymoon’ phase. A heady time for lust, but now with the nod of the whole family. A sweet phase, one that, alas, is as vulnerable as a young leaf in the face of a storm. Because living with each other brings its own challenges. 
 
 And after the ‘honeymoon phase’ must come the ‘common purpose’ phase. Otherwise the marriage might soon be over. Because when lust fades, something needs to take its place before familiarity and boredom set in. A ‘common purpose’ is often arrived at by adding a new member to the brand family, a baby that brings excitement and purpose back into the relationship. This is a stage of discovery, exhilaration, goof-ups, tears, emotion and much laughter. 
 
 And then we reach the ‘mid-life quest’ phase, when the brand babies have grown and flown the nest. Once everything has been savoured and satiated, we are faced with the question: What’s new? Enter the competition, with its sizzling new offerings, latest products that open up a whole new world of sensations. This is the time when most divorces happen in brand households, as consumers seek to replace old tastes with new. 
 
 Finally, there’s the ‘off with the old and on with the new’ stage. When the brand is being divorced by its consumers (and going through an existential crisis). Here, it takes the only step it can — sack the old love guru, and find a new one. Because the familiar love guru knows the brand too much, and it’s time to replace stale relationship advice with something more fresh.
 
 So the next time somebody asks me what I do, I will reply: “My job’s very dangerous. I give relationship advice — the toughest kind of advice. And I can get sacked for it.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
