One glance at Panaji’s iconic   is enough to see everything that has gone terribly wrong with Goa. The famous grounds – as old as the capital city itself – lies torn to pieces. Massive mounds of rubble and mud cover its once-pleasant expanse. A large portion of its attractive, quasi-European black metal railing has been bludgeoned away, has been bludgeoned away, and is now being replaced by horrendous monstrosity, exactly resembling the worst of Bollywood crudity. Worst by far, the beautiful, ethereal neo-classical monument at centre – sacred resting place for Goa’s seminal nationalist - is dominated by a freakishly large, extraordinarily ill-conceived toilet.

 It’s not only Azad Maidan being flushed but also democracy itself along with every standard of urban development. This is now the norm for the current administration, where outrageous scam “infrastructure” has become its signature activity. Highly dubious, unbelievably expensive projects are underway all over Goa even as the state debt burden has soared past unsustainable to the verge of bankruptcy. There is a detectable pattern – opaque project planning, total lack of oversight, zero public participation, huge cost over-runs, and a small set of crony contractors.
 
 Even as the rest of Goa gets royally messed up, the multi-crore toileting of a cherished landmark particularly demonstrates how bad things are. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has no official knowledge about what is underway at Azad Maidan. Mayor   says no plans have come to his office, and he has given no permissions. He has a conspiracy theory that the ground has specifically been made unusable for demonstrations and rallies – its historic purpose for over a century – but that doesn’t explain the gargantuan lavatory looming over the remains of poor Tristão de Bragança Cunha.
 
 Cunha – often called ‘The father of Goan nationalism’ was the voice and advocate of the Indian   in France in the early 1920s. It is because of him Romain Rolland learned about Gandhi. That history and great legacy is only part of what is being disrespected by the lavatory which now casts its shadow on his tomb. 
 
 There is also the monument to the martyrs of Goa’s freedom struggle, which stands like a meek bookend to the colossal concrete latrine that now commands the north end of Azad Maidan.
 
 Panaji MLA Sidharth Kunkalienkar is one man with some answers, which he kindly shared over the phone. According to him, the last renovation of Azad Maidan took place many years ago and the ground was not in a good condition (this is accurate). Then added that literally only one family lived on the square (which is not accurate). He said work has been initiated under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Tranformation by   (GSIDC). And when asked if any architects had been consulted, he said, “LKS”.
 
 Like Louis Berger a few years ago, this Spain-headquartered consultancy has become the favoured vehicle for dodgy projects in Goa. The company website says the state government is “our main customer in India” via GSIDC. Its projects (Azad Maidan isn’t even listed) are a laundry list of very bad, environmentally unfriendly ideas: the ridiculous walkway overhanging the Baga river, the likely illegal ‘redevelopment’ of beach areas in Miramar, the sinister-sounding ‘redevelopment of one of the premier tourist destinations…where several Bollywood movies have been filmed’ (probably Fontainhas).
 
 Connect the dots. It is the deeply flawed ‘Holistic Master Plan’ created by this same LKS being used to ram through Panaji’s ‘Smart City’ scheme which will involve unprecedented levels of money being expended in the tiny riverside city. The obliteration of everything charming about Azad Maidan is thus quite possibly only the beginning. The fact is all of India’s most charming little capital is now threatened with the same fate. If they can do this to the centerpiece of Goan democracy, on the same turf as the monuments dedicated to the state’s most cherished heroes, just imagine the size and scale of the urinals we can expect in the rest of hertage Panaji.
 
 Last word to Panaji native Raya Shankhwalker, who writes, “In my experience as a practicing architect in Panjim, I have seen so many examples of heedless obliteration of carefully planned urban infrastructure. This wonderfully situated riverside city was very well planned in a gridiron pattern…All through the city, large and small public squares and gardens provided recreation space for activities that make and define a successful and civilized environment …all this has been systematically dismantled.”
 
 The writer is a photgrapher and widely published columnist
 
