NEW DELHI: There’s a cop standing at the front gate but, thankfully, nobody asks any question as one walks into  . This leafy and red-bricked college, unkempt in parts, had become the ground zero of a violent fracas that rocked the north campus of Delhi University on February 21.

 That eventful day, a college group had invited JNU PhD student  , accused of raising anti-national slogans last year, for a talk on the Bastar adivasis. Following protests by DUSU and Ramjas Students Union, he was refused permission. On this, the organisers took out a protest march within the college campus. When they reached the seminar hall, stones were thrown at them allegedly by ABVP activists. Some organisers were beaten up. The next day, a protest march by Ramjas students, in tandem with AISA and some JNU activists, became a free-for-all, leaving several students with a bloody nose and broken bones.
 
 Now a fortnight later, everything looks normal in Ramjas, which celebrated its centenary earlier this year. Students hang about in corridors, loaf and chill in and around the canteen. Only two gaping holes and some cracks on the glass panes on the building’s upper floor are the remains of the day.
 
 But talking to students from different social groups and political preferences, one gathers that the calm is deceptive and a sense of anxiety bubbles under. Students claiming to be ‘neutral’ said that they were being pushed to take sides politically. One could see the sharp fault lines among different student groups arising out of conflicting political and cultural positions. But above all, one could also sense resentment against “the privileged other”. For instance, a group of “non-English speaking” students contemptuously said that the “English-speaking students hamari desh ki sanskriti se bahut aage chal rahein hain.” (These English-speaking students are far ahead of our country’s culture).
 
 The fracture caused by the event extends to the family. A first-year English student, who was part of the group that invited Khalid, said he was ticked off by his parents for the initiative. “I was told, “Kya zaroorat thi Umar Khalid ko bulane ki?” I told them, “Why not! He is not a terrorist.” The student, whose father is a senior executive in an MNC, was asked to stay home on February 22 when the   march took place.
 
 The student said he was surprised how the discourse changed over the next few days. “We were shouting goondagardi se azaadi on the first day. We had no idea how Kashmir and Gurmehar and all other things became part of the protests,” he said.
 
 For some students, the act of witnessing violence in Ramjas was a loss of innocence. “We grew up in peaceful times. I thought, we had bypassed this kind of college violence,” said a first-year student from political science. She is a businessman’s daughter who grew up in a boarding school. When the incident became news television’s loop of the day, her parents called her back to her hometown. “There were rumours that ABVP activists were beating up those who were associated with the event,” she said.
 
 Talking to another group of students who shack up on rent in nearby Vijay Nagar colony -- all from the physical science department -- one realizes how there can be staggeringly divergent viewpoints on the same issue. One of them claimed that the organisers were shouting slogans such as ‘Bastar maange azaadi’. His take: “They are using students as pawns.” This group also finds it hard to understand how one can invite “someone like Khalid.” One of them asked: “How can an accused be part of a debate?” 
 
 “Yeh students English society se aate hain. Yeh hamare sanskriti se bahut aage chal rahe hain. AISA aise hi logon ko attract karti hai,” said a student, claiming to be politically neutral. Another observed: “Yeh theories (sic) ki do chaar kitaabein padh gayein hain. English-wale bahut attitude mein rehte hain. Yeh communist aur feminist bante hai, hamare culture ke khilaf.” They are unable to comprehend why other students cannot shout, ‘Bharat mata ki jai’, alongside them. 
 
 Saket Bahuguna, national convener, ABVP, said: " The point of contention was that Khalid was called to speak at a seminar titled 'Cultures of Protest'. But we know that he was there to justify Maoist violence and to create a propaganda that it is the state which is perpetrating violence on the tribals.” 
 
 An organiser had a different perspective: “When we talk of freedom in Kashmir or Bastar, we talk about freedom in the conflict zone. Media doesn’t talk about them. No one wants to destroy India but we want free space to talk about all issues.”
 
 What’s clear is that there is a fundamental difference in the understanding of what is politically and culturally right and what is wrong among different student groups. Nothing wrong with that, except that nobody wants to listen to the other. Who can rule out more violence and intimidation in future?
 
 (Names of all students have been withheld on request)
 
