NEW DELHI: A tussle over interpretation of the rule book has erupted in the   (PGC) of Delhi government.  , a former chief secretary of Delhi, and the commission’s part-time member,  , a retired IPS officer, have locked horns. Kumar was heading the   in Delhi when he was additional commissioner of police in 2007-09. 

 Setting aside an order by Kumar — given on December 21, 2016, following a hearing on December 14 — that advised the CBI to take note of a complaint of alleged demand for a bribe in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), Tripathi has shot off a letter to chief secretary MM Kutty. “The PGC resolution clearly establishes that the commission should give advice to Delhi government and not to investigating agencies,” he stated in the letter. He has also pointed out that “it is for the appropriate authority in the Delhi government/home ministry to make references to the CBI and Anti-Corruption Branch.”
 
 He has stated that “in future, no order from the members of the commission shall be issued to these investigative agencies”, adding that “order will be issued to the appropriate authorities, who are responsible for supervising the conduct of erring officers”. 
 
 The case pertains to a complaint received by PGC from one Dinesh Chabbra in March 2015 stating that his application for sanction of building plan, dated December 16, 2009, has been pending for five years, and that no reason had been given for the delay. He is the owner of  , located on plot number 489, khasra number 550/393/61, Gandhi Nagar. Between 2009 and 2015, EDMC got NOCs in the case from various departments.
 
 On February 18, 2014, the EDMC layout scrutiny committee had stated that “the matter in respect of acquisition and alternative site (if it is to be shifted) needs to be referred to the standing committee for appropriate action.” But the decision has not been implemented till date, PGC noted.
 
 Disagreeing with Tripathi’s opinion expressed in the letter dated December 29, 2016, and questioning Tripathi’s jurisdiction to set aside his order, Kumar held a special hearing on January 11, 2017. He asserted that “in the present matter, prima facie, information about corruption is glaring into the face of the authorities of the PGC and therefore one cannot be blind to it. The delays due to so-called complexity of matter have to be read with the information about corruption given by the complainant.” 
 
 “When the Prime Minister of the country is crying hoarse in a high pitch about the problem of corruption in the country and is trying to take several initiatives, suppression of the information available with PGC is absolutely not justified. It is clarified that the commission has only given an advisory to CBI about information about corruption and not issued any directions. 
 
 The intention was that this specific information could be utilised as a source information report (SIR) for taking appropriate action,” Kumar recorded in an order. He has pointed that he has similarly advised CBI and ACB in many other cases in the past one year. 
 
 Tripathi has in his letter to Kutty — with copies to LG Anil Baijal’s secretary and DIG/ACB/CBI — stated: “I have come across an order passed by N Dilip Kumar...I have also received two representations, dated December 15 and 28, from EDMC in this regard. It is clear from the representations that it is a case of very complex nature and has been hanging fire since 2009. It has been dealt by several officers, and at no time, contention of the petitioner was found favourable by the corporation:” 
 
 Tripathi said that it was clear from the deliberations at the hearing held by the part-time member that the corporation officials were seeking a short-time adjournment as the layout scrutiny committee (LOSC) was to take a final decision in the matter. He said that the corporation had informed him that an LOSC meeting held on December 15 had finalised its recommendations to the standing committee through the commissioner.
 
 So, “the member should not have shown unnecessary hurry in the matter, which is very complex in nature, involving financial and town planning implications, for which there is no precedent in the corporation,” said Tripathi. He said he was, therefore, setting aside the December 21order of Kumar and that no action should be taken. Kumar rebutted this by recording in his January order that he had not acted in haste but only in “public interest” by informing CBI.
 
 
