KOCHI: Even as the debate over the extension of the   to   (CIAL) heats up, the merchant community and residents along the stretch between the   and   remain a disappointed lot. Though the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has been planning to launch commercial operations till the Maharaja's College by September-end or early October, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) has not finalized tenders for executing works along the stretch between the Maharaja's College and Pettah. 

 Expressing concern over the undue delay in executing works included in phase I of the Metro works, the traders here said many of them have put on hold their plan to renovate or reconstruct their buildings. Their businesses were already affected and their hopes of cashing in on the Metro services have diminished, they said.
 
 "It's true that traders functioning along the arterial roads between Aluva and Maharaja's College will benefit. We don't know how long we will have to wait for the Metro authorities to complete the work along the entire stretch of the MG Road," Salman PS, a staffer of at Zodiac, a clothing store. He said many traders functioning between the KPCC Junction and the Jos Junction have already shut shops and left the area. Some of them have moved to a shopping mall on the MG Road.
 
 K Panchapikesan, store operations manager, Kirthilals Jewellers, said commercial establishments were awaiting Metro authorities to complete the civil works on the MG Road to construct a parking area. "As the Metro project has been delayed we have been forced to put our plans on hold. Lack of parking facilities has reduced our footfalls," he said adding that a further delay in completing the works would have an adverse impact on their businesses. Thomas J Mathew, who owns an outlet of the United Colours of Benetton on MG Road, said, "When Metro works begin we expect parking issues. Naturally there will be a dip in sales. So, we might consider shifting to a shopping mall at Edappally." He also said that some of the outlets selling branded goods have already shifted shops to Padma Junction where construction works were over.
 
 KMRL senior officials said they expected the DMRC to finalize the tenders for executing the work between the Maharaja's College and Pettah within the "next couple of weeks."
 
 It was also pointed out that though the DMRC officials went for re-tendering after 'off-loading' Soma Constructions and Era Ranken, they had difficulty in finalizing the contractors for executing the work. "It is understood that even some of the local companies have participated in the tenders. The KMRL has provided the entire land required for executing works up to Thykoodam," said a KMRL official.
 
 Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also assured that the tenders would be finalized without much delay. 
 
