Kolkata/Jalpaiguri: In a span of just four days, a   was photographed for the second time near Kalimpong’s   National Park. Such   are being reported after a gap of almost three decades, if not more, from the wild of north Bengal.

 After a local cab driver, Anmol Chhetri, photographed a big cat between Pedong and Lava on January 19, the foresters decided to lay   in the area. Four camera trap stations were laid on Saturday and a tiger was photographed in one of the cameras on Monday night. Whether it’s the same tiger is not yet known.
 
 Since the tiger clicked by Chhetri has its left flank recorded with a boulder guarding most of the body and the one clicked in the camera trap has its right flank recorded, it won’t be possible for foresters to match stripe patterns. Chief wildlife warden Pradeep Vyas said: “Pugmarks have also been spotted inside the park. We will soon procure 200 sets of cameras and install them in north Bengal forests. We have already cleared a Rs 60 lakh project to use technology to assess the presence of tigers and other animals in north Bengal.” Sumita Ghatak, conservator of forests, northern circle, said only three months ago, pugmarks and scats were found in a few forest blocks of Neora Valley.
 
 With   being reported from the area in the last few days, foresters have already started restricting the movement of villagers near the park. Vyas said a dialogue with villagers has already been started.
 
 Conservationist Animesh Bose said: “We should install cameras more frequently inside Neora Valley now and find out whether there’s movement of tigers inside the park. If not, then we should try and find out possible reasons behind that, including impact of dense malingo bamboo grove that often makes hunting difficult for tigers.”
 
 Many say tiger movements could have been recorded here if cameras were laid earlier. Amid the euphoria, many now want to know whether it’s a resident tiger or a transient one. Conservationist Biswapriya Rahut said: “One should not restrict oneself to Neora Valley only while trying to track its movement. It’s a bigger landscape covering adjoining forests of Bhutan, Sikkim’s Pangolakha and Bengal’s Neora Valley, Gorumara and Mahananda. Tigers are territorial animals and can travel long distance for mates. We have to take all this into account and protect the corridors that link these landscapes,” he added. 
 
 Citing importance of the landscape, environmentalist A K Ghosh said how he, as the head of EIA cell, got an approval from the then ZSI director in 1981-82 and supported conservationists late Kisore Choudhuri and Banani Kakkar and sent a team from ZSI to do a feasibility study for state’s water supply project in the park’s upper reaches. “They sighted leopards, several species of plants and birds. We had asked the state to prepare an alternative scheme then. The project was stalled at that time,” he recalled.
 
 
