Pune: It took marketing professional Navin Singh an hour and 25 minutes on Monday to reach his Sus Road home from his office on Fergusson College Road.

 Normally, the commute does not take more than 20 minutes but on Monday, Singh battled bumper-to-bumper traffic most of the way, and got home tired, frustrated and disgruntled.
 
 “With two major roads closed, it’s a nightmare to drive home everyday,” said Singh, “Everyone is in a hurry to get home, so there is too much honking, people driving on the footpaths; the traffic police are without coordination.”
 
 Hundreds of citizens living in Baner, Balewadi, Pashan and Sus, who take Ganeshkhind Road home every evening, have a similar story to tell. The Closure of Pashan Road and a portion of Senapati Bapat Road to facilitate the laying of water pipelines has clogged the arterial road, with traffic jams sometimes extending all the way to Shimla Office junction.
 
 With traffic from multiple directions — Shivajinagar, Deccan, Sangamwadi, Model Colony and Range Hills — converging on the same stretch, traffic snarls last at least three hours every day. The agony is not only limited to the main road, but also the surrounding bylanes — as motorists take shortcuts — much to the chagrin of local residents. 
 
 An official source says municipal contractors have been allowed till May 15 to finish the work. 
 
 Travel time has doubled for senior marketing professional Anupam Bhargava, who lives on the Baner-Pashan Link Road and travels daily to Hadapsar. “I spend at least 45 minutes to travel from Central mall till the Range Hills junction, which is totally gridlocked. It’s smoother once we turn onto Baner road. The situation can improve marginally if people start following traffic rules,” he said.
 
 Alternative routes should have been worked out, or at the very least, things could have been managed better, believes software engineer Chaitanya Wankhede, who spent an hour as his office bus crawled through the two kilometres between Shimla Office and University circle. “It’s pathetic to think of all the fuel wasted as cars idle in traffic. Citizens are not paying taxes to spend their evenings in mismanaged traffic,” he said.
 
 “It’s pathetic how long civic projects in the city take to complete,” observes Mukta Sadana, a communications facilitator who commutes daily between Sus Road and Deccan. “This water pipeline work has been going on for several years, and it’s the same story every year. The traffic police are unable to manage the situation here,” she said.
 
 “We are open to public suggestions about managing the situation better,” said Pravin Mundhe, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “It is only after a thorough survey that we have allowed all three patches of the pipeline work to be done simultaneously, or else the agony would have stretched into several months. Still, if anyone thinks they can offer a better alternative, we would be happy to listen. For now, we have to manually manage the traffic,” he said.
 
 
