CHENNAI: Police on Saturday arrested four former students and a final year student of a private maritime college at Nemam near Tiruvallur for assaulting three students of the institution over a quarrel.

 A court has sent the arrested -final year student  , 23, and former students  , 23, Jerin Joseph George, 23, Vithun Vijayakumar, 27, and Nitin Rajiv Menon -to jail. While third year students Akhil Ramachandran, 22, and Akhil Sebastian, 22, both from Kerala, are being treated at the   in Chennai, their friend Fayaz Rizvite Abdul Kader, a final year student, escaped with minor wounds. The first two had to undergo a minor surgery following the assault.
 
 Police said the clash broke out after the victims entered into an altercation with Sachin, a native of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, at a railway reservation centre in Poona mallee on Friday morning.
 
 Later, Sachin informed Alif Khan Naser, Jerin Joseph George, Vithun Vijayakumar, and Nitin Rajiv Menon, all from Kerala. The four former students, police found, had passed out in 2015-16 and had come to the city last week to appear for the arrears exams.
 
 In the evening, the five went to the college and called the three rivals out. A fresh quarrel ensued and Akhil Sebastian and his two friends were repeatedly stabbed with sharp weapons, including a pen knife.
 
 Based on a complaint from Fayaz Rizvite, the Vellavedu police registered a case under IPC Sections 324 (attack using sharp weapon), 341 (wrongful restraint), 294 (b) (abusing) and 506 (II) (criminal intimidation) and arrested the accused.
 
 Preliminary inquiries re vealed that the clash erupted after the injured students criticized Sachin who had been suspended after skipping many classes last year.
 
 A classmate of Ramachandran and Sebastian said their group was taken by surprise. “It was our last exam,“ said the student who did not wish to be named. He said they were casually asked to step aside by the four former students who whipped out weapons and began assaulting the boys. “The three began bleeding. It took almost three hours to get the five assailants to the nearby police station at Vellavedu,“ said the student.
 
 “The guys who attacked were our seniors who had an altercation with some of us two years ago. They had been suspended,“ said Sebastian.
 
 When contacted, the institution refrained from making any comment.
 
