BHOPAL: The family of the ragged   girl at MANIT took her to Mumbai for treatment on Friday and said they were unlikely to bring her back to the campus, even as the authorities hinted that NRI students were to blame and the institute would probe if any of them took drugs.

 Chief warden of MANIT, N P Patidar, told TOI that institute is probing “recent parties held by NRI students outside campus”. “It’s possible drugs were taken regularly by a few NRI students in unauthorised parties. Since the victim did not want to attend such parties, other NRI students boycotted her and this led to the incident. The board will take a decision on Monday,” said Patidar.There are around 4,000 students in MANIT, including 100 NRIs who got direct entry on the basis of their higher secondary marks. 
 
 The girl’s uncle Tanvir Alam Faruqui told TOI that she so traumatized that she is still in no condition to talk. “The ragging had a serious impact on her. I doubt if she will continue at MANIT,” said Faruqui, urging the institute to take strong action against the students who harassed her for months. The family has named four seniors, including a girl.
 
 Even now, the institute is in denial mode. MANIT director N S Chaudhari told reporters that they have issued showcause notices to the four students named by the family. “We have not concluded it was ragging. We will decide on any action only after the seniors reply,” said Chaudhari. 
 
 Ragged relentlessly since November last year, the NRI student from Saudi Arabia is in shock and had to be hospitalized. The institute had done nothing to help the girl despite knowing that she had stopped eating a week ago, and agreed to conduct a probe only when the family refused to budge from the director’s office on Thursday, say sources.
 
 Faruqui said they are indebted to the Vinod Wadwani family of Bhopal who were the first to help her. “We did not know anyone in Bhopal since our entire family is based in Mumbai and Saudi Arabia. We told one of our friends about our daughter’s plight. They put me in touch with the Wadhwani family and I requested them to take the girl out of the hostel,” said Faruqui. 
 
 Wadhwani told TOI that when he met the girl on February 18, “she had not had any food for three days”. “After coming out of the hostel, she asked us for some food. She did not trust anyone in the hostel,” he said. The victim stayed with the Wadhwani family at Idgah Hills for two days till her family reach Bhopal.
 
