VISAKHAPATNAM: AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu called for a new industrial revolution with the help of information technology to eradicate poverty from the country. Addressing the valedictory speech at the Partnership Summit in Visakhapatnam on Saturday, he said the increased confidence of investors on him was reflected in the number of MoUs and the investment proposals received during the summit.

 The CM announced that every investor will get permission within 14 days and that there would not be any delay from the government in extending permissions and clearances. He pointed that the time is ripe to exploit IT to take the economy to the next level. 
 
 “The state has received more than double of what it had received in the last partnership summit. This is a clear indication that their confidence on the state and me has increased. Now, I have no doubt about the future of the state. With this support, I will make the state as one among the best three by 2022 and the top state in the country by 2029,” declared Naidu.
 
 He stressed on food processing and tourism sectors as future growth areas and asked investors to make use of the long coastline the state has been bestowed with. He announced a tie-up with Chinese IT companies to develop an IT park at Visakhapatnam with an estimated investment of Rs 9,426 crore. He also announced establishment of educational institutions by  ,  , Harvard and   in the state with an estimated investment of Rs 15,500 crore.
 
 Speaking at the valedictory session, Governor ESL Narasimhan remarked that AP has a chief minister who work “25x8”. “You know people who work 24x7 but here is a chief minister who try to work 25x8 and make the machinery run at his pace,” said the Governor. He assured the investors that AP is a safe investment destination.
 
 Later, addressing the media, the CM said he envisions generating 1.5 crore employment opportunities by 2029. He also plans to set up a platform like Davos for AP from next year for sharing ideas, knowledge and brands for the development of the state. 
 
 Naidu also spoke of revamping university curriculum to ensure skill development. The CM aid the proposed 250-km Rayalaseema express highway would become the country’s biggest ring road and Visakha Rayapur six-lane road would link all the major lines boosting freight. He said Kakinada has potential in oil refineries and hydro carbon development. 
 
