
 
  
 
  This proposal is under active consideration of the government of India. I myself have visited the border twice. Even MLAs have visited the border with Bangladesh. This shows the sincerity of our government. We are committed to complete sealing of Indo-Bangladesh border within a definite time frame. We are giving importance to creation of border infrastructure.
  
  
 
  Our mandate was to free forest land, fertile land from the clutches of illegal settlers. These lands were occupied by “suspect citizens”. We will continue with the eviction drive.
  
  
 
  Union home minister Rajnath Singh has agreed to give extension to 100 foreigners’ tribunals functioning in Assam. The home ministry has also agreed to consider establishing separate detention centres to house the detenues declared by foreigners’ tribunals as foreigners, pending their deportation. We are maintaining vigil and will ensure that illegal immigrants are detected and deported.
  
  
 
  We have promised corruption-free Assam. Right from Assam Public Service Commission (APSC) to scam in social welfare department, we are bringing corrupt persons to book. Several persons are behind bars; we have even taken action against police officials for corrupt practices.
  
  People’s perception towards government has changed. The huge divide between the hill and valley, and between the two valleys of Brahmaputra and Barak has been mended. We have initiated a holistic development model for whole Assam and state budget is testimony to the fact that we are not discriminating against anyone.
  
  A large number of projects and works have been initiated in health, education and industry sectors. Free admission of students, besides Atal Amrit Abhiyan, a unique health insurance scheme which gives coverage against five critical diseases, and seven lakh bank accounts for tea garden workers are some measures which we have initiated in one year.
  
  During the demonetisation (drive) history was created when seven lakh workers were provided with access to banking service. Our government in the state budget for 2017-18 proposed to provide Rs 5,000 to each tea garden worker in his or her bank account. The river festival of Namami Brahmaputra, which was held across 21 districts of Assam, provided an opportunity to showcase Assam’s waterways potential. Big vessels will move in river Brahmaputra soon as dredging of Brahmaputra both in India and Bangladesh will start soon. We are building a highway along river Brahmaputra. The pre-British era route up to Chittagong port in Bangladesh has been revived. We have come up with water ATM.
  
  
 
  People are reposing faith in the leadership of Prime Minister  . This is the prime reason for our rapid expansion in Northeast India. In last three years of NDA rule people have witnessed quality governance and commitment. Youths are getting attracted to   for they see a leadership which is hardworking, valuesbased and committed. We will do well in Meghalaya and Tripura.
  
  
 
  We inherited a corrupt system, a legacy of corruption. I believe we have able to bring good governance. The last year was tough but this year will be tougher. We have a long way to go.
  
  
 
  Modiji has special love and affection for Northeast India. He terms the eight states of the region ‘Ashtalakshmi’ (a group of eight Hindu goddesses). Modiji believes that for the holistic development of India, development of Northeast India is must. The PM feels that Northeast India is vital for Indian’s engagement with ASEAN and so he has piloted ‘Act East’ policy. We will also set up a department of Act East. No other PM has given so much importance to Northeast India as Modiji has. He wants to develop the region as organic hub and pivotal trading point of Southeast Asia.
  
  
 
  Law and order situation has drastically improved. Visiting delegations from CII, FICCI and ASSOCHAM, and CEOs now say that they are no longer worried about law and order situation in Assam and now they talk about investment. We are going to organise a mega investment summit, ‘Advantage Assam’. 
