PUNE: The   (SPPU) has toppled  , Kolhapur (SUK) to become the best-rated varsity in the state after bagging an A+ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with a 3.60 cumulative grade point average (CGPA). Last year, the SUK had secured an A rating with a 3.18 CGPA.

 Among colleges, Mumbai-based R A Poddar college of Commerce and Economics and Smt Surajbai College of Education bagged A+ rating. Baramati-based Tuljaram Chaturchand College of Arts, Science and Commerce was another college in the state to earn an A+ rating with a CGPA of 3.56.
 
 Among other colleges in Pune, the   received B rating with a score of 2.28, while PE Society's Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce got an A rating with a score of 3.26.
 
 The standing committee of NAAC announced the results of the third cycle assessment for universities and colleges in the country on its website on Wednesday night.
 
 Speaking to TOI, SPPU vice-chancellor   said, “It is a great achievement for the university especially at a point when unnecessary criticisms were being raised. I think there is a lot of room for improvement as pointed by the NAAC committee and we are working on it. But largely, the university has maintained its stature and lived up to its name and expectations.”
 
 He added, “The faculty strength was a weak point along with lack of guides for PhD aspirants. We also failed to meet the new UGC norms regarding post-doctoral degrees. Now, we are looking to improve on these points.”
 
 In the last rating cycle, SPPU had received A rating with a score of 3.01. Before the arrival of the NAAC committee in January, BJP MLA   had come down heavily on the alleged “irrational self-assessment report” of the varsity.
 
 Every educational institution is required to prepare a self-assessment report and publish it online. Accordingly, with the NAAC committee slated to visit the varsity on January 23, the SPPU had published a report.
 
 Alleging that the report submitted by the varsity to NAAC was irrational and full of errors, Kulkarni had said, “I wonder how the NAAC awarded the SPPU an A rating based on such a report during their second cycle.”
 
