NAGPUR: “When I first arrived in Nagpur I did not want to have poha or samosa for breakfast. I felt that there is a need to redefine the way we have breakfast outside of our homes,” said owner of ‘The Breakfast Story’   sharing the   of his business in a discussion named ‘My success story’ at Vidarbha Industries Association, Civil Lines, on Saturday.

 After travelling around the world,   wanted to implement a restaurant idea that was unheard of in the city. “I got the idea from small food joints in Europe which are usually owned by families. I loved the homely feel I experienced while dinning there and wanted to recreate that with a few personal touches,” said Kulkarni.
 
 Kulkarni is a professional architect and an interior designer who worked in a furniture manufacturing company before starting ‘The Breakfast Story’ off Hingna Road. “I am very passionate about food and cooking and I enjoy serving people,” said Kulkarni. He described his vision for restaurant as a place where one could meet new people and interact with them and enjoy homemade food.
 
 On brainstorming for a new business model Kulkarni said, “The foundation of any business starts with an idea and having one is not enough. You need to work hard on it and then execute it.” He thought of starting a book shop or some other business before starting the restaurant.
 
 The idea faced a lot of flak when he unveiled it. “My family was opposed the idea. They were sceptical over it becoming successful and implored me to scrap it,” said Kulkarni. But opposition will crop out of every corner according to Kulkarni. “I fought hard for the idea I believed in and it paid dividends,” he said. 
 
 Kulkarni also talked about concentrating on minute details while undertaking his pet project. “The ambience of the place needed to be just right. Whatever customers saw, smelled, touched, heard and tasted had to be aligned with our concept of a home,” he said.
 
 He said that the business does not follow the monotony of other food joints and he encourages new talent and ideas. . “We don’t have a head chef. We have hired students who were just fresh out of college but had a flair for cooking good food,” he said. He also shared a few instances where he refused to hire experienced cooks only because they weren’t creative enough.
 
 “Sometimes my customers are more than happy to contribute to the restaurant. Customers have donated books, audio cassettes and foreign currency to help brighten up the place,” said Kulkarni.
 
 When asked about his plans of expanding his business Kulkarni said, “I have put my heart and soul in creating ‘The Breakfast Story’ and I don’t think it is something that can be recreated.”
 
 
