PUNE: India's head coach   on Friday lamented his batsmen's lack of application but refused to concede defeat in the first Test against Australia.

 "It was disappointing. We were in a pretty decent position when Rahul and Ajinkya were batting out there. But once Rahul got out, we lost those four wickets in five or six balls. That certainty pushed us back," Kumble said after the end of second day's play. "You are bound to have a bad day... And this pitch was certainly challenging, so we needed a lot more restraint and if you put your head down, you could make those runs."
 
 Kumble said the team lost a bit of initiative when they failed to wrap up the Australian innings early on the opening day. "If you look at yesterday, the first 80 runs in the first session and the last 60 runs for the last wicket - that slightly took us away from what we were wanting to restrict Australia to," he said.
 
 He admitted that the batsmen had a poor outing but refused to be harsh on them. "It's a surface where you needed to adapt. We didn't adapt really well. We are bound to fail (at times). A couple of batsmen are bound to fail, having been scoring exceptionally well," said Kumble.
 
 Opener Rahul got out while attempting a big shot and his dismissal triggered the Indian collapse, but Kumble would not blame Rahul either. "In hindsight, yes. But you need to play your shots on this type of wicket. You couldn't really blame the batsman."
 
 "Once Rahul and Ajinkya had that partnership of 50, we could have consolidated and probably got closer to the target or probably even got a lead. But we just had a poor day. I still feel there's a lot of cricket to be played in this Test match. Tomorrow is another day ."
 
 
 
 
 Rahul took treatment for his left shoulder during his innings and was writhing in pain immediately after playing his shot which cost his wicket. Kumble said it was not a major concern. "He hurt his shoulder little bit. So we had to take care, this is more a precaution," he said. "He is ok now. He was back in the field for the last couple of overs. He should be ok. Tomorrow (Saturday) we have to see how he responds. Usually these kind of injuries take 24 hours before it resurfaces. So we are hoping he will be fine."
 
 The Indian coach complimented Steve O'Keefe on his six-wicket haul but felt   was unlucky not to take more wickets on the day. "I think he (O'Keefe) bowled steady, in good areas. Like I mentioned, there were a couple of soft dismissals, and that pushed us back. It was one of those days where we saw Jadeja bowl in the last session where probably every over he was beating the bat three times. On another day, that could have all taken the edge." 
 
