THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Along with dengue threat,   cases have also been steadily increasing in the state. The number of H1N1 cases has crossed the 1,000-mark in the state in seven months claiming 63 lives. Experts say H1N1 has become rampant but remains under-documented. 

 Though usually the virus becomes active only during monsoon, this year, it has been active since January. The number of cases may go up in the coming days. This is the third time that over 1,000 cases have been reported in the state since 2011. 
 
 "There has been a wave of attack by the   across south India since January and states like   and Tamil Nadu were also among the worst hit. As per reports,   is under threat,'' said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer.
 
 Sentinel surveillance has been helpful for getting details of H1N1 cases in the state. "If 1,000 cases have been tested positive, then over 4,000 suspected cases have come for testing. But we cannot say that only these many people have been infected. Many more cases might have occurred but outside hospitals," said Dr Amar Fettle. H1N1 has become common like fever in the state but thankfully, the virus causes only a milder disease. It is becoming under documented now since it has become very common, said Dr N Sulphi, Chirayinkeezhu Taluk Hospital. 
 
 Out of the 100 patients who come to OP services sections at government hospitals 50-60% have H1N1. "But there is no need for panic since H1N1 has become milder. Most of the people get cured without even taking oseltamivir,'' said Dr Sulphi. By taking necessary precautions people can prevent H1N1 from spreading to others. Including leafy vegetables, papaya and gooseberry in the daily diet will also help as vitamin A and C prevent the virus from infecting the body, said Dr Fettle. 
 
 People with diabetes, pregnant women, just delivered mothers and people suffering from heart diseases are under high risk since the H1N1 virus can become fatal for them if not treated. Hence, such people should not go for self- treatment, Dr Fettle added. 
 
