Chris Gayle, who loves his dance moves as much as taking the opposition bowlers to the cleaners, still believes he has plenty to offer to  . 

 In a chat with TOI, the Jamaican power-hitter says he is keen on moulding the next generation of   cricketers even as he targets the 2019 world cup.
 
 
 
 As a player, I will always be grateful because that's where it all started. We are all passionate about our cricket and when we step out on to the field, expectations are always high. There is immense pressure which comes with wearing that maroon outfit and I honestly thrive under it. Often, for the past couple of years, we haven't been able to get the kind of results our people want to see, but we are rebuilding now. Just to ensure the new crop of youngsters are mentored well it is important for seniors to be around. 
 
 
 I cherish Test cricket the most. I treasure my time in whites for West Indies because that's the format for which I have worked the hardest. Two triple centuries and an average of above 40 speaks for my Test cricket credentials. While I still want to play Test cricket, at least one last match, I'm not sure if my body will agree with the demands of the five-day game. But yes... one last time will be good.
 
 
 Well, I have completely changed the West Indies' cricket setup over the last couple of years. Because of me, a lot of things have got moving in West Indies cricket. From the board's (Cricket West Indies) perspective, I have helped them in many ways. Everyone should be thanking me! Also, I believe it is not just about me taking the responsibility. It is about everyone putting up their hands and taking up the responsibility. What I can contribute I will. Any player can reach out to me. That said, respect has been one of my biggest gains in recent times.
 
 
 It has been a great experience. To be honest, it teaches you a lot. You have to adapt to a situation as quickly as possible. You are always in a different dressing room with players from various countries. The type of person I am and the way people see me, it doesn't take them long to warm up to me. I socialize easily and I am a fun person to have around.
 
 So, for me, it is easy to be in any dressing room. I believe nobody should feel intimidated by me -barring the bowlers of course. Playing leagues is something I enjoy doing and I will continue to play as long as I can.
 
 
 Well, it was unfortunate, but at the same time no one is bigger than the game. It doesn't matter who the individual is. Being benched is what the team needs at that particular time. Having said that, it is always disappointing to be on the bench. If you look at my status, it seems odd that I am benched. But I'm not going to be biased. A few errors have been made in that capacity as well (team management). Sometimes people don't remember the things you have done for them. They will come back straight to you.
 
 
 Every father goes through changes within, and I am no different. It is something new and it is also a situation you need to adapt to quickly. Children need a lot of your time and I enjoy going back home to my daughter. The birth of my daughter has brought a lot of joy and happiness into my life. I'm in a happier space now. Watching my daughter come into this world is a moment I will cherish forever.
 
 
 If you have to continue, you have to be active as well. I might not play as many tournaments as before, but it is about picking and choosing the right tournaments. I know I will be pushing 40, but 2019 is just around the corner and I'm sure I will be around too. I want help my team do well in the World Cup.
 
 
 I do spend some time in the gym, but not so much these days. I believe experience plays a huge role. I don't run as much as I used to. People may say that   doesn't run as much, but I've done a whole lot of it back in the day. I rely on experience now. I break it down to each tournament. I have grown to understand the requirement of each tournament and the time I need to prepare for it. At the same time, fitness is health as well. It is important to know what is important for your body and what you put into it.
 
 
 My mental fitness is the key to my physical fitness because the body reacts to instructions from the mind. That's one of my strongest gains. It is a situation where you have to look ahead and pre-empt it. It is important to plan for disappointment as well. The key is to teach your mind to handle situations. If you go with a mindset that something is going happen and then it doesn't, it can destroy you. So you have to be open to success and failure in equal measure. That way it becomes easier to deal with disappointments. You can flush it out of your system, pick yourself up and move on.
 
 
 It is important. The coach can understand where you are coming from as a captain. Having been a captain myself I know how critical that relationship is for a team. I have had issues previously . There is always going to be agreements and disagreements, but the key is to set the differences aside and perform for the team.
 
 
 Yes, IONA, a virtual gaming venture, is one of them because India is my second home. Cricket is the no. 1 priority, but at the same time, when I get a chance to venture into business I want to do that because cricket career is short. You are always looking to fall back on something. You don't want to just walk away from the game and then scamper and then start a business.
 
