MUMBAI: Talks between   and   for a   in Mumbai are all but over. Save a last-minute breakthrough early on Thursday, prospects of a saffron alliance for the BMC elections appear to have vanished.

 A senior BJP leader said it was too late to salvage the talks now. “Although the Sena would be ready to leave 90-95 seats for us, the dispute would then continue over the wards they wish to contest.”
 
 Since filing of nominations begins on January 27 and goes on till February 3, it leaves the two sides with little time to make adjustments regarding selection of candidates across the 227 wards in the city.
 
 Sena chief   may either make the announcement or set a 24-hour deadline for BJP on Republic Day at Goregaon when he addresses a rally. Though both Thackeray and chief minister   remain in favour of a pre-poll tie-up, the rank and file on both sides are clearly not keen to make major concessions to accommodate each other.
 
 According to a Sena leader, the decision either way will have a bearing on nine other municipal corporations in the state as well. “If the alliance could not be stitched up in Mumbai, the chances of going it together in the remaining nine corporations and 25 zilla parishad elections in the state are slim,” said a Sena leader. 
 
 Just as the Sena leadership asserted itself in Mumbai and Thane, where they see their gra-ssroots network as stronger, it is likely that BJP may adopt a sim-ilar stand in the other regions.
 
 On Wednesday, Thackeray held a meeting at his residence with seniors to discuss the possibility of salvaging the seat-sharing talks while BJP Mumbai president Ashish Shelar briefed Fadnavis about the progress and the party’s draft manifesto, which is likely to be released on Saturday.
 
 BJP has also planned a rally on Saturday at the same venue in Goregaon where the Sena chief will speak on Thursday. “There are chances that he might give a 24-hour ultimatum to the BJP to accept Sena’s last offer, just to postpone the decision,” said a political observer.
 
 State BJP chief Raosaheb Danve too will address the party’s youth wing at Dadar on Thursday evening, an hour before Thackeray.
 
 If Sena and BJP are unable to arrive at a consensus for the  , it will mean that all major parties may enter the fray without an alliance. Congress and NCP have already indicated that they do not have a tie-up for the civic elections in Mumbai. They are yet to indicate if they will contest jointly for seats in the other civic bodies.
 
 The 10 municipal corporations in the state that are going to polls on February 21 are Mumbai, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Nashik, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Amravati, Akola and Nagpur. Nomination papers will be accepted between January 27 to February 3; scrutiny of nomination papers will be taken up on February 4; last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is February 7; allotment of election symbols on February 8; publication of polling booth wise voters list on February 8; polling will be held on February 21; and counting of votes will be taken up onFebruary 23.
 
