PATNA: The 23rd edition of   will have certain special attractions for schoolchildren like poetry and story-writing workshops and competitions in elocution, essay writing and painting.

 “That’s first-of-its-kind initiative in the Patna Book Fair. The objective is to bring children closer to books and help them hone their writing skills,” workshop convener Aradhana Pradhan said on Saturday.
 
 The 11-day book fair at Gandhi Maidan, which will have at least 600 book stalls, is scheduled to be inaugurated by chief minister   on February 4. 
 
 Each workshop will have 100 students as participants. Schoolchildren will be registered for the workshops on first-come-first-served basis, said Ratneshwar, president of the Centre for Readership Development which organises the Patna Book Fair.
 
 The workshops and competitions will be open for students from classes VIII to XII, who will be selected for participation by their respective schools. 
 
 An amount of Rs 50,000 will be distributed among 15 of the participants, who shine at the events. The prizes will be given away on February 12 by Arjun Vajpai, who climbed   at the age of 16 years, 11 months and 18 days.
 
 Three schools earning maximum points will also be given cash rewards while the topper school will be be given a running shield.
 
 The poetry workshop will be conducted by Bollywood lyricist Raj Shekhar of   fame on February 5 and 6. The workshop on story writing will be conducted by Children’s Book Trust writer Suman Bajpai on February 7 and 8.
 
 The elocution contest will be held on February 9 and the essay writing competition on February 10. The painting competition will be held on February 11.
 
 To further arouse children’s interest in books and stories, a storytelling session has also been planned for February 5. Christened ‘Bachche Jaise Katha Kahaani’, the event will see five schoolteachers led by Amitabh Pandey, who works with Unicef, read out stories for children.
 
 Schoolchildren can have free entry to the book fair if they are in uniform and are carrying their identity cards.
 
 
