TRICHY: The farmers’ wing of   has appealed to chief minister Edappadi Palaniswamy to take immediate action to get the due share of water in the Cauvery from Karnataka, to be able to execute kuruvai paddy cultivation. 

 The farmers demanded release of water not only for taking up cultivation but also for Aadi Perukku festival that falls on August 2. In a memorandum submitted to the Chief Minister in  , the farmers urged him to take action to vacate ONGC from   as the extraction process is been “carried out against the wishes of the people.” 
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was in Trichy on Sunday to participate in the valedictory function of all-India kabbadi tournament organized by the youth wing of AIADMK as part of the centenary celebrations of former chief minister MG Ramachandran.
 
 As there is a cordial relationship between the state and the union government, the chief minister should utilize the situation to get things right with regard to the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board, said the memorandum. The farmers demanded that the delta region which comprises Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukkottai, Cuddalore, Ariyalur districts should be announced as a protected agricultural zone. No other activities, except paddy cultivation should not be entertained across this region. 
 
 “The state government should pressurize the Union government for the allocation of Rs 14,500 crore fund to rejuvenate the entire Cauvery river, as the demand has been pending with the Union government for the Past three years. This apart, the state government should allocate fund for the rehabilitation of 19 branch channels of the Cauvery river which are flowing in Trichy district,” read the memorandum. 
 
 It also included demands for the construction of check dams across the Cauvery and Kollidam rivers, immediate release of 10 villagers who were arrested by the police during the protest held in Kathiramangalam against ONGC.
 
 The team headed by Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, submitted the representation to the chief minister along with the party’s farmers’ wing state treasurer Vayalur M Rajendran, general secretary Thiagarajan, north district president   and south district president Punganur Selvam.
 
