UDHAGAMANDALAM:   at   in Coonoor and Coimbatore have improved this week. Sales in Coonoor auction centre were around 50% on Thursday against 5% last week. Auction centre in Coimbatore saw 30% sales against 17% last week. 

 It shows that sellers and purchasers are getting accustomed to GST regime,   officials said. “As per the new system, tea manufacturing bought-leaf factories should register themselves under the   and the tax to be paid is at the rate of 5%. Earlier, bought- leaf factories were levied only 1% service tax,” an official said.
 
 Executive director Tea Board (South) C Paulrasu said, “The dip in sale of tea at the two auction centres could also be attributed to less demand in the market. Cochin auction centre has seen a full-fledged sale as usual from the implementation of the GST system,” he told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, owner of a bought-leaf factory blamed the ‘confusing’ billing system. “Earlier, bill would be generated against the brokers, who in turn settle the amount at a bank portal after deduction of 1% towards service tax. Now, though we produce a delivery challan to the brokers, bills generated at auction centres are against the factory owners. There is a little confusion in paying the brokerage,” he said.
 
 However, a senior commercial tax officer said, “Earlier bought leaf factories were levied only 1% service tax. But now 5% GST is applicable to them as far as the commodity tea is concerned.”
 
 As per the GST regime, the bought-leaf factories should register themselves in the GST system and the tea manufactured in the tea factory may be transported to the warehouse with the delivery challan, provided the warehouse is registered as the additional place of business by the factory.
 
 Also, in the new system, the broker also comes under the term of supply. The broker has to pay separate tax for the commission received by him at the rate of 18%.
 
 “In this system, if there is any break in the chain-link, the system could easily find it out. There is no way a commodity escapes tax,” the commercial   added.
 
