AGRA: The Rashtriya Lok Dal has turned out be the last refuge of disgruntled leaders from  . According to an estimate, around 20 rebels from various parties have so far been given tickets by the RLD in the list of   it has announced so far.
 
  In Agra, the RLD has given tickets to turncoats on five seats out of eight on which the party has fielded its candidates. Likewise, in Firozabad district where it has announced candidates on two seats, Jasrana and Tundla, it has given the ticket to sitting SP MLA Ramvir Singh Yadav on the former constituency.
  
  In Meerut region, as many as four aspirants from the BJP and one from the SP, who were ignored by their own parties, switched to the RLD and have been swiftly given tickets.
  
  Bhagwan Sharma, popularly known as Guddu Pandit, on not getting a BJP ticket joined the RLD and got nominated from Dibai constituency of Bulandshahr. Anil Chauhan left the BJP after MP Hukum Singh’s daughter was preferred over him. Chauhan is fighting from Kairana constituency on an RLD ticket. Leena Singhal, a strong contender for a BJP ticket changed party and got it from the RLD for Najibabad in Bijnor. BJP leader S K Verma got an RLD ticket from Chandpur, also in Bijnor. Ashfaq Ali, sitting SP MLA from Nauganva seat in Amroha, is also contesting on an RLD ticket.
  
  As far   is concerned, Ashok Agarwal of the SP has got a ticket from Mathura constituency, while BJP leader Rishi Raj will contest elections on an RLD ticket from Chatta constituency.
  
  Two disgruntled leaders from Congress and one from the SP have filed their nominations in Aligarh. From Congress Om Pal Singh Khateek (Khair constituency) and Neeraj Sharma (Barauli) and Manoj Yadav (Atrauli) from the ruling party have switched sides to the RLD. A close aide of BJP leader  , Swami Pravaktanand has filed his nomination as an RLD candidate from Barkhera in Pilibhit.
  
  “It is true that we have given tickets to leaders of other parties who have switched sides, but they are all deserving candidates,” said RLD state president Masood Ahmad.
  In Agra, Colonel Umesh Verma, a former postmaster general, had joined the Congress a few months back with an announcement that he would contest elections from Agra North seat. But after the SP-Congress alliance was announced and Verma’s name was not in the list, he defected to the RLD. He joined the RLD on January 22 and filed his nomination on the party’s ticket two days later. Congress leader from Bah Sudhir Dubey, who had been eyeing a ticket from this rural constituency, also followed a similar path and will now be fighting on an RLD ticket.
  
  Verma and Dubey told TOI that they left the Congress because they had not been given “due respect” by the party.
  
  Another Agra leader with close relationship with the BSP and trying to get a ticket from Agra South, Chaudhary Basheer, finally settled with the RLD and has joined the fray. Notably, he had already filed his nomination as an Independent candidate before being declared an RLD leader.
  
  Former minister in BSP government, Narayan Singh Suman and his Avadesh Singh Suman, have been fielded from Agra rural and Agra Cantt respectively. They were expelled by BSP supremo Mayawati last year in June for anti-party activities.
