Ludhiana: Members of the finance and contracts committee (F&CC), have finally given their consent to organise the auction of shops in the Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road. The move is expected to help MC generate revenue. Besides several other developmental works were also given approval during the meeting held on Saturday. However these works will cost more than Rs 100 crores to MC and the fund-starved department will find it hard to arrange money to complete these works. It’s been almost a year since the stadium was inaugurated at a cost of Rs 85 crore, but not even a single sports event has been organised here so far. 

 Apart from this, the members approved the beautification of various chowks of the city. In these chowks the entry points of the city including Sherpur Chowk, Jalandhar bypass Chowk and Pratap Chowk are included. The members gave nod to 266 resolutions out of total 268. The agenda to pay money to the industrial association for the development of park was dropped after one of the members Jagbir Sokhi raised the question marks. He said that association members were given the responsibility of the development of parks but now they are seeking money from MC so they decided not to give money to them. 
 
 The works of installation of new tubewells to replace the old and failed tube wells and construction of roads in different wards of the city were also given approval. The F&CC members approved Rs 5 lakh compensation to the family members of a person who lost his life when a stray animal hit him in 2014. The family members had moved Punjab and Haryana high court after which the MC was told to pay compensation from cow cess collected from various sources to the family. 
 
 Notably, the financial condition of the department is not up to the mark and now the only revenue source is through recovery. The meeting was called after the Congress councillors pressed Mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria for the same. Meanwhile the Congress councillors claimed that they will arrange the funds on their own if they have approval for these many works. 
 
 
