MUMBAI: Thirty-six units of the BCCI have provided a list of their current office-bearers as desired by the Supreme Court-constituted   (CoA). The list was put up on the Board website on Friday, and it was mentioned that six units - Punjab, Saurashtra, Andhra, Nagaland, Arunachal and All-India Universities - "have not provided details of their respective office-bearers." The exercise was undertaken by the CoA to check whether those who were disqualified as per the Lodha reforms continue to be an office-bearer in their state association. Interestingly, the websites of both the Saurashtra Cricket Association (SCA) and the   (TNCA) still shows   as the SCA secretary, and   as the TNCA president. On Friday, the SC sent notices to both the veteran cricket administrators to explain their presence at the BCCI's Special General Meeting (SGM) on June 26 in Mumbai. Both Shah and Srinivasan have quit the office-bearers' post at the state level in accordance with Lodha reforms.

 "I'm really surprised to hear this (SCA's failure to update the CoA about their current set of office-bearers). It's absolutely wrong, and we've to immediately check this. We had informed the COA on March 25 this year about our present set of office-bearers. Since we haven't held our elections as yet, our acting secretary is Madhukar Worah and treasurer is  .
 
 "There's no president because we haven't had any elections. The president had to step down after the SC order in January. We had informed them again in June about the list of office-bearers who've stepped down, and about the role of the above two officials being in charge," an SCA official told TOI on Friday.
 
 With elections being held up due to on-going legal issues and confusion over implementation of the Lodha reforms, it wasn't surprising that seven of the state cricket associations who've sent the details of their office-bearers - Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Baroda, Orissa (not elected yet), Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Assam - have not named their president in the list.
 
 Amongst those who look set to be ousted should the Lodha reforms are implemented in toto are former India skipper   and BJP president  , who've headed the cricket associations of Bengal and Gujarat respectively for the last three years. As per the reforms, both need to serve a three-year cooling-off period.
 
 The Delhi & Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) has informed that as on date there are no office-bearers/directors in it. The DDCA is being managed by Justice Vikramjit Sen (Retd SC judge), who was appointed by the Delhi High Court. The Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA)'s chief was former Board president  , but since January 20, when the SC appointed CoA to implement the reforms, the HPCA has been run by a three-member committee, comprising of Yudhister Katoch,   and Arun Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) claimed that it had informed the CoA about its status in this regard.
 
 "We'd told the COA that we've an interim committee in place since January 2 (when the SC sacked the then BCCI president Anurag Thakur and secretary   for failing to implement the reforms) which is running the game at PCA.RP Singla, a former player is the convenor of the committee, which includes eight members. This panel doesn't include anyone who's disqualified as per the SC judgement," said a PCA official.
 
 Asked the reason for forming the interim committee, he said: "We're waiting for clarification on FAQs from the Supreme Court, before holding our elections after adopting the new constitution. Remember that 23 state associations have already gone to the SC to contest the reforms, so we're awaiting the final decision in this regard."
 
