JAMSHEDPUR/DHANBAD: Within two days of the state government’s announcement to crack down on illegal slaughter houses, the district administration has swung into action on Wednesday and issued notices to the owners of around 100 illegal slaughter houses to close down their shops voluntarily or face legal action. 

 The drive followed after the Raghubar Das-led state government on Monday ordered closure of illegal abattoirs operating in the state within 72 hours.
 
 The district administration has decided to involve local police and municipal officials to identify and close down the slaughter houses running illegally.
 
 “We have started the process of identifying and closing down the illegal slaughter houses. We have constituted an authorised committee,” said Dhalbhum SDO, Manoj Ranjan. 
 
 According to sources, there are at least 110 slaughter houses spread across three municipal areas under Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) and Jugsalai Municipality that are presently operating without licence. 
 
 “Not a single slaughter house in Dhalbhum has a license to slaughter animal,” said a senior district administration official.
 
 He said that many traders who have licence to sell livestock meat also slaughter animals at their backyard of their shops.
 
 Government data reveals that of the total slaughter houses in the district about 55% are located in MNAC command area while the rest are spread across Kadma, Bhuyandih, Sakchi, Birsanagar, Pursudih, Sitaramdera, Bagunnagar, Jugsalai, Bagbera among other places. 
 
 The meat traders have maintained that growing demand for meat and short supply of the product has forced them to slaughter livestock on their own. 
 
 “Over 1,000 tonnes of meat is sold on regular days. The demand crosses 1,500 tonnes during marriage and picnic season. The supply is too less than the demand,” Sanjay Dhoke, a Sakchi-based mutton shop owner, said. 
 
 Welcoming the decision of the government to close down illegal slaughter houses, a city-based outfit, Slaughter House Ban Committee, has called for action against the government officials who were in connivance with the traders for the abrupt growth in slaughter houses. 
 
 “After 1979 the district administration did not issue new licence for establishing slaughter houses nor did it renew the licence of 28 slaughter houses that were previously operating. It is surprising how the number of slaughter houses increased abruptly in the last four decades,” Babar Khan, a functionary of the outfit, asked. 
 
 The denizens too have welcomed that government’s decision. 
 
 “The   that have come up in the residential areas carry out slaughtering of animals without any adherence to the environment, health and municipal rules. The authorities need to check the unhygienic condition under which these meat shops operate,” said a Kadma resident, Mrityunjai Kumar. 
 
 The administration closed down 15 illegal slaughter houses in Chaibasa Sadar sub-division on Wednesday. 
 
 “We had information that 15 illegal slaughter houses were operating in Chaibasa, and we have closed them,” said Chaibasa SDO, Deepu Kumar.
 
 
