 might be just 21 but the singer has already recorded tracks in eight languages. Last year alone, he had several chart toppers including  ,   and  .
At a time when he was flooded with Bollywood offers, Armaan, who is music director Anu Malik’s nephew, decided to try his hand at Malayalam for the song   from the movie Theeram – as part of his wish list to have a hit in every language.
 We caught up with the singer, who has been making waves with his music, to know more about his Mollywood foray, his ambitions and his recent dream-come-true moment:
 
 
 
 
 Initially, I was a bit daunted when music director Afzal Yousuf sir approached me, because I’d heard it’s a tough language. But I had already sung in Tamil, Telugu and Kannada, and I wanted to give it a shot.
 Afzal sir composed a beautiful melody, which was more than I could ask for as my first Malayalam song. Surprisingly, I recorded Njan Varume in two hours. Sure, Malayalam has a few syllables that are difficult to pronounce, but I was rather pleased with my effort.
 
 
 
 
 
 Right now, I am in a great space where I am singing a lot of tracks in the South and spreading my wings across India. For me, that is important because when I am doing concerts across the country, and I want to sing in the mother tongue of the audience. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Composing is in my blood – my grandfather, father, brother and uncle are all music composers. But I have this penchant for singing and song writing. I don’t like composing for films; I would rather do my bit in the independent music scene in the future.
 However, in our country, the film industry is definitely bigger than the independent music industry, and singers definitely need the support and the traction from films to get recognised.
 There are many independent musicians out there who are talented but they don’t get the right promotion or popularity because they aren’t associated with films.
 India lives and breathes movies, unlike in the West where films and music are two separate industries. Eventually, I think the music industry will develop and singers will become stars in their own right. Even I am working towards it.
 
 
 
 
 
 Many people get lost in only their region. For instance, an up-and-coming artist might have oodles of talent but if his audience is just limited to those in Kerala, his music too wouldn’t have a reach. But to achieve popularity, you need the support of films. Once you have a fan base, you can introduce your independent music to them because you have an audience who would listen to your music.
 When you are averse to the idea of working in the film industry, it sort of limits you and your music. I believe independent music will grow only when mainstream artistes foray into it.
 
 
 
 
 
 Not really. But I am a huge   fan, and used to listen to a lot of South tracks that he had sung. As a kid, I used to hear this song Anisuthide from the movie Mungaru Male on the radio that he had sung, while in Bangalore. I loved that song, and used to sing it back then. Coincidentally, a decade later, last year, I got to sing the Kannada track Sariyaagi Nenapide in the sequel of Mungaru Male. That meant a lot to me. I also won a few awards for that. I think the South film industry has been welcoming and I am glad I could make my mark here.
 
