NEW  : A gang of highway   intercepted a truck carrying mobile phones worth Rs 1.07 crore on Ring Road near Burari, took the driver to Tikri border and pushed him off the moving vehicle. They were tracked down and arrested while they were planning to dispose the phones. The kingpin of the racket had committed a robbery-cum-murder at Civil Lines in 2012.

 On May 19, the driver Santosh lodged a complaint at Burari police station saying that his truck containing 7,600 Karbonn mobile phones was robbed on Ring Road while he was taking the consignment from Okhla to  .
 
 The robbers had blocked Santosh’s vehicle with a midi-truck and forced him to stop on Burari flyover. They told him that he had hit their vehicle and threatened to wreck his truck if he did not pay for the damages. When he got down, the men overpowered him and dragged him into his truck. His then tied his hands and feet.
 
 One of them boarded the truck and started driving towards outer Delhi. They drove around the city for about four hours before dumping Santosh near Tikri border. The loaded the phones on their midi-truck midway near Zakira flyover and parked it in a desolate spot.
 
 “A team was formed to trace the accused. They soon got a tip-off that a group was planning to dispose a large cache of mobile phones near central Delhi. The accused — Sanjay, a resident of Trilokpuri, Mohd Salman, Sarvan Kumar and Salman — were subsequently arrested,” said DCP (north) Jatin Narwhal. The midi-truck used in the crime has been seized and the phones have been recovered.
 
 The arrested men told the police that they didn’t know about the consignment in the truck during the robbery. They later found the goods were phones worth a crore. They then decided to dispose the phones in neighbouring states. The gang used Sarvan’s midi-truck to look for loaded trucks at night and rob them at desolate places.
 
 Sanjay had earlier shot a businessman and robbed him of Rs 75 lakh near Civil Lines in 2012 for which he had been sent to Tihar Jail.
 
 
