COIMBATORE: When Lalithkumar Natarajan lost mobility due to transverse myelitis, a neurological condition at the age of 11, he felt helpless and hopeless. Twenty-six years later, he finds pleasure in cruising around on his   and is charting out a trip from   to spread a message.

 He will begin the 4,000 km journey in June, accompanied by four other differently-abled people, said Lalithkumar, a Tirupur resident. “Apart from creating awareness on the talent and value of differently-abled people, we want to ensure that rehabilitation centres for people with spinal disability are set up in every district in India. We will meet government officials in all the states we pass through and submit petitions towards this. We also want the government to include spinal disability in the state list and the protection scheme of the national trust of India,” he told TOI.
 
 To embark on such a trip is the dream of every rider. “Whenever people think of the differently-abled, a feeling of sympathy overcomes them and they think that we cannot do certain things. Take my case. I thought, when everyone can ride a Bullet, why not me? So I wrote to the company and after six months, got a reply. Over a period of one year, they modified a Bullet for me. The gear system has been set up near the handle so that I can change them using my hands. They have also added a carriage, in which I can keep my walker and the wheelchair,” said Lalit.
 
 The total cost of the trip has been worked out at Rs 7 lakh. Major Venugopal, an ex-serviceman and his son will accompany the team. Venugopal and Lalithkumar along with another differently-abled rider - Karunakaran from Kallakurichi and will ride on Bullets while three other differently-abled people - Natarajan and Gnanabharathi from Chennai and Tirunavukarasar from Bengaluru, will be in a modified car.
 
 The decision to travel such a long distance was not easy, said Lalithkumar. “Almost everyone discouraged me. But, when I discussed the plan with Venugopal, who takes people to Leh every year, he was extremely encouraging and agreed to take up the responsibility of the entire logistics for the trip,” he said. 
 
 Major Venugopal said he is aware of the challenges ahead. “I know several differently-abled people affected by spinal injury who chose to stay in their rooms. This trip is to make them come out and to show them that they can do anything if they make the effort,” he said.
 
 The journey of life was not that easy after he was affected by the disease, recollects Lalithkumar . “After a few years of sadness, I took up the challenge of completing formal education. I went on to do an MBA and MPhil and is now working as a soft skills trainer. I also runs an NGO - Love and Acceptance, which provides catheters, wheelchairs and commode chairs for differently-abled people across India. It has benefited more than 150 people,” adds Lalith as he rides away on the Bullet with a smile that is hard to miss.
 
