PUNE: Respite from the onslaught of scorcher is in sight, with the Met department forecasting the heat wave condition prevailing in   would recede after Saturday and eastern India will get respite within three-four days.

 Delhi and the rest of northern India will not be bothered by a heat wave at least for a week, but the maximum temperature will remain high across the country, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).
 
 The mercury has started dipping slowly in the city and it would plummet further. On Friday, the Shivajinagar weather station recorded a maximum temperature of 39.6°C but it was 40.3°C in Lohegaon. In the next five days, the maximum temperature will be in the range of 38-37°C.
 
 “The temperature in Rajasthan, western Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha will come down after Saturday. The anticyclone, disallowing air from moving up and resultantly trapping heat in the lower atmosphere over   and western Madhya Pradesh, is moving now. This will keep moving east. Hence, the eastern India states like Jharkhand, Bihar and interiors of   will get some   from the heat wave after three-four days,” said A K Srivastava, the head of climate monitoring and analysis at IMD.
 
 He said the formation of anticyclone was not an irregular activity.
 
 Srivastava said the temperature would remain high for some time before it subsided. “The ceasing of heat wave would not mean that the temperature would come down immediately. The minimum temperature in Pune, for example, has started coming down and will remain around 21 or 20°C. The maximum temperature will also drop, but will still remain above normal,” said Srivastava.
 
 The normal temperature of a city for a day is calculated taking an average of the day’s temperature over a span of 30 years. “New Delhi and other northern Indian states will not   in the next few days because it is still getting extra topical winds. We also don’t expect any anticyclone condition in the next few days in Delhi or surrounding areas,” said Srivastava.
 
 Heat wave hit the country in March-end because anti-cyclonic conditions, generally seen in April, hit India earlier.
 
 The highest maximum temperature over the plains on Friday was 44°C at Akola (Vidarbha). The lowest minimum temperature recorded over the plains was 16°C at Sundergarh (Odisha).
 
 While parts of the country are reeling from the excess heat, heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Assam and Meghalaya and heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, said IMD data.
 
 
