GREATER NOIDA: Residents and daily commuters complain of an increasing number of encroachments by roadside kiosks and autos in the   area in  , resulting in daily traffic jams and tailbacks during peak hours.

 “It wasn’t this bad eight or nine months ago,” said Rajiv Tandon, a resident of Sector 49, Noida, who commutes to Greater Noida frequently for work-related meetings and conferences.
 
 “Greater Noida was envisaged as a signal-free one with roundabouts and wide roads. But today when we commute though Pari Chowk, the main landmark of the city, its overflowing traffic, haphazardly parked autos and buses which stop in the middle of the road,” Tandon said.
 
 He added that temporary kiosks of roadside eateries have cropped up in the area making it very difficult to commute.
 
 Tandon said the situation was so bad that he avoids attending many of his meetings because of the traffic snarls in the area.
 
 Harinder Bhati, RWA general secretary, Sector Beta 1, said that across Pari Chowk and even on the expressway near the bus stops on either side, temporary kiosks of food and snacks have cropped up in the last seven to eight months.
 
 “Apart from encroaching on the road, these kiosks along with randomly parked autos and plying buses are a constant hazard portending accidents. There’s no action from   on them,” Bhati said.
 
 “If it remains unchecked, then Greater Noida, where temporary roadside kiosks are mushrooming, will turn into another Noida where it’s difficult to walk on the roads,” said Bhati, who urged the Greater Noida Authority for periodic action to curb the problem.
 
 When contacted, Satyapal Bhati, senior manager of urban and   cell, Greater Noida Authority, said that there was a penalty imposed on the owners of roadside kiosks after which the kiosks were confiscated. 
 
 “We have a penalty starting from Rs 1,000 with the first warning for removal, followed by Rs 2,000 at the second warning. But if even after that, the kiosks continue to crop up, then we confiscate them,” Bhati told TOI.
 
 On the count of randomly parked autos at Pari Chowk, Bhati said that though there were designated stands for autos, action could be taken against them only by the ARTO office or SP traffic. 
 
 “With the current Metro work and increase in number of autos, the area has become more crowded,” said Bhati, who added that the general public should also be sensitive on the matter.
 
 
