Nagpur: The state’s public works department (PWD) has successfully resurfaced two roads in the district using plastic waste mixed with bitumen. After this pilot basis in six districts of Nagpur revenue division, the plan is to resurface three roads each in six districts.

 City MP and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had given permission to mix 8% plastic waste in bitumen for resurfacing tar roads. TOI was the first to report Gadkari’s announcement on March 7, 2016. Later, on June 16, 2016, the PWD issued a notification directing all regional officials to take up resurfacing of tar roads with plastic waste mixed with bitumen on trial basis.
 
 Chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar told TOI the road between Umargaon and Pandharkawda in Nagpur tehsil, stretching 1km, was the first to be resurfaced in this manner. “Reports proved the experiment was successful. Utilization of plastic waste in bitumen increased durability of the road by one more year. The concept also helps civic bodies dispose of plastic waste, which was a major challenge. It is a waste to wealth concept. We are planning to collaborate with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and other civic bodies in the division for supply of plastic waste. It can generate revenue for civic bodies,” he said.
 
 Debadwar has also directed his officials to identify three roads each in six districts and resurface them with plastic waste and bitumen.
 
 The second road taken up under the concept was a 500m stretch on Bazargaon to Adegaon to Kawadsa Road in the district.
 
 Deputy engineer Chandrashekar Giri said even Neeri officials visited the road and plan to take up the same concept on roads in their premises. “We planned resurfacing of 13km stretch of road — Shankarpur to Vela, Kanhalgaon, Hudkeshwar, Adyali, Umargaon and Pandharkawda. Resurfacing of 1km was done with plastic-bitumen mixture and remaining 12km in usual manner. Work was done through private contractor PK Constructions. Some 1.65 metric tonne plastic was mixed with bitumen on the 1km stretch. Plastic-waste ratio was 6kg per cubic meter. Reports are on positive note, and have been submitted to the head office,” he said.
 
 PWD has followed the formula permitted by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) coming under Gadkari. MoRTH had permitted mixing of 8% plastic waste with bitumen. The quantum of plastic waste is likely to increase after some modifications.
 
 NMC had also started resurfacing a road near Bhandewadi dumping yard with plastic-bitumen mix a few months ago. The work was not a success due to problem of water logging on the stretch. The civic body is trying the same concept on a stretch at Sugat Nagar in Ashi Nagar Zone now.
 
 Gadkari had suggested NMC should engage women self-help groups in collection and supply of plastic waste for resurfacing of tar roads, so they get an income source.
 
 
