KOCHI: Kerala made four changes to their squad that will play the final round of 71st   in Goa. Sherin Sam (AG’s),   (AG’s), Jijo Joseph (SBT) and U-21 player Nishon Xavier (KSEB) have replaced last year’s captain VK Shibinlal, Firos Kalathingal, Netto Benny and Ananthu Murali in the 20-member Kerala squad.   has been retained captain.

 Kerala will begin their campaign against   in the tournament on March 15. Apart from Railways,  , Punjab and Mizoram are the other teams in Kerala’s group.
 
 Sherin Sam and Jipson Justin were not available for selection for the   qualifiers due to their commitments with the AG’s Office squad while Jijo Joseph and Nishon Xavier were included to give more width in attack.
 
 Though Kerala qualified for the final phase without losing a single game in the south zone qualifiers held at Kozhikode in January, the performance of the team left a lot to be desired. “During the qualifiers, I tried to play it safe by playing the U-21 players in the midfield, hoping that the senior players will be able to help them,” said head coach VP Shaji. But the midfielders struggled to create enough chances for the forward-line. As a result, Kerala had to satisfy themselves with narrow wins over relatively inexperienced opponents.
 
 But now with the inclusion of Nishon Xavier, a wing back, who can play on both flanks, the coach has the option of including one more senior player in the midfield. “Now with Nishon coming in, we have the option of playing senior players in the centre midfield while the juniors can fill the up the wings. They will be able to make quick runs along the wings with their young legs,” said Shaji.
 
 Meanwhile, captain P Usman felt that Mizoram will pose the biggest challenge for Kerala side in the group stages. “In this format, U-21 players are the ones who will make the difference. Teams like Mizoram have plenty of young talent and most probably their main players itself will be in the U-21 age group. They could be the biggest threat for us but we will play our game and will give our best,” said the Kerala captain.
 
 The tournament begins on March 12 with the final is scheduled to be held on March 26.
 
 
 Goalkeepers: Midhun (Kannur, SBT), Hajmal (Palakkad, KSEB), Melbin S (Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Police); Defenders: Najesh M (Kasaragod, Vasco SC), Lijo S (Thiruvananthapuram, SBT), Rahul V Raj (Thrissur, SBT), Noushad K (Kottayam, Baselios College), Sreerag VG (Thrissur, FC Kerala), Sherin Sam (Ernakulam, AG’s Office), Nishon Xavier (Thiruvananthapuram, KSEB); Midfielders: Seesan S (Thiruvananthapuram, SBT), Muhammed P (Palakkad, KSEB) Jishnu Balakrishnan (Malappuram, NSS College), Jijo Joseph (Thiruvananthapuram, SBT), Jipson Justin (Thiruvananthapuram, AG’s), Asharudheen (Malappuram, SBT); Strikers: Usman P (Malappuram,SBT), Jobby Justin (Thiruvananthapuram, KSEB), Eldhose George (Idukki, SBT), Sahal Abdul Samad (Kannur, SN College)
 
