BENGALURU: The street expects   to disclose its capital allocation strategy in its earnings call on Thursday.

 India's second-largest IT services firm has been under pressure to announce a share buyback and there have been indications that it is considering one.
 
 Infosys had cash reserves of $5.25 billion as of December 2016. Though Infosys' shareholders recently voted on new articles of association (AoA) that enable a buyback, it is unlikely that an announcement will be made on Thursday. The matter may come up later in the quarter.
 
 Former Infosys board member TV   said investors have great hopes on the board to announce a buyback because of the large amount of cash the company holds. "The board has a fiduciary obligation to investors to disclose its capital allocation strategy," he said. Many expect a buyback of $2-2.5 billion worth of shares.
 
 Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of  , said Infosys is under pressure to conduct a significant share buyback due to slowing growth. However, even a significant share buyback would probably only drive modest EPS (earnings per share) accretion, he said. 
 
 "What a big share buyback will do is limit the investment available to drive the already flagging rotation to digital strategy. All of Infosys' future organic growth is dependent on them succeeding in this rotation and head winds due to lack of ability to invest or acquire digital firms will raise concerns with the long term shareholders about Infosys ability to lead in the new digital area," he said.
 
 Tom Reuner, senior VP intelligent automation and IT services at  , said at a time when Infosys' founders openly criticize the board, deferring a share buyback appears like a footnote in a much bigger problem. "Infosys urgently needs to steer back into calmer waters to regain the confidence of shareholders as well as employees.The best way to do that is to get the stuttering sales engine firing again. With a stronger financial performance, critics are likely to take a seat in the back row again," he said.
 
 
 
 Infosys has appointed Srinivasa Raghavan as global chief data scientist. Raghavan, who was previously the head of data science at Reliance, has expertise in machine learning, text mining, scientific computing, and simulation. 
 
 The former   (IISc) faculty member has two patents to his credit. Prior to joining Reliance, Raghavan was the head of data science in Citigroup.
 
