NEW DELHI: With demonetisation becoming a major electoral issue in assembly polls in five states,   member   lashed out at PM   for undermining institutions like RBI and said the decision has wrecked the economy. Looking to flip Modi’s 2014 campaign promise of ‘acche din’, Rahul said ‘acche din’ will return only when Congress is back in office.

 Addressing the day-long “Jan Vedana Sammelan” protesting demonetisation, Rahul said Modi was being ridiculed across the world for the ill-advised decision to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes.
 
 On a day when the Supreme Court dismissed a plea seeking a probe into references to alleged pay offs to Modi when he was the Gujarat chief minister in sheets seized by the income tax department from   and   groups, Rahul seemed to deemphasise the issue. 
 
 He referred to the allegations — which he had said will cause a political earthquake — only towards the end of his speech. Other leaders skipped the reference altogether.
 
 Rahul accused the PM of destroying independent institutions like RBI, judiciary and the Election Commission. “Those who talk about Hindu religion are bent on finishing the soul of India,” he told party workers.
 
 For the first time since being ousted from office, Congress spoke in terms of defeating BJP and endorsed the “Modi Hatao, Desh Bachao” battle cry so far adopted only by TMC member Mamata Banerjee. The slogan repeatedly echoed the venue with Rahul nodding approvingly as he delivered his speech.
 
 The heightened pitch with Modi as its focus saw Congress spell out a monthlong agitation across states. The plan, coinciding with five state elections, shows Congress is betting on voters casting their ballot on the controversial policy.
 
 Rahul He claimed “fear” was the subtext of the Centre’s policies like its aborted proposal on land acquisition and its incessant focus on terror and naxalism.
 
 “You look at BJP’s policies. Their entire aim is to scare the people of the country. Fear terrorism, Maoism, demonetisation, scare the media. In twothree months, in the entire country, they have spread this fear,” he said.
 
