PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Malprabha,   toilet system, developed by late   who received the Padma Shree posthumously, could be used in  , the developer’s daughter   and his cousin   said, adding that such toilets have been in use in Dehu for the past 27 years. 

 “It is time tested, and requires zero maintenance,’’ they claimed.
 
 Mapuskar, who had conceptualised indigenous toilet designs, had received the Nirmal Gram award from late President APJ Abdul Kalam in 2006. He passed away in 2015.
 
 Under the Swachh Bharat scheme, public toilets are being built in rural areas, but the waste water is discharged in rivers or water bodies, leading to pollution. The biogas-linked system ensures appropriate treatment and reuse of waste water and an additional incentive of biogas.
 
 Narayanan said, ``Mapuskar developed the new model of biogas plant for biomethanation of human nightsoil. It is eco-friendly, and self-sustaining technology, which is also cost effective. In the temple town of Dehu, nearly 75 such biogas-linked toilet plants have been installed by families for the past 27 years.’’
 
 When Mapuskar joined as medical officer in 1959, the public health centre did not have toilets. The villagers defecated in the fields. ``Mapuskar, who was into preventive medicine, created public awareness through bhajans, kirtans, and stage shows that people should build toilets. Hundreds of these biogas plants have been constructed and are in use in various districts of Maharashtra and few other states’’, Narayanan said.
 
 Ulhas Mapuskar said the government is constructing public toilets but the pipe lines are joined to drainage lines. ``If waste water is discharged into rivers or nallas, then construction of toilets is of no use. Treatment of waste water and night soil is important. The night soil is turned into manure while the waste water can be released into the rivers since it is clean,’’ Mapuskar said.
 
 He said a letter in this regard has been sent to the PMO a few months back that Malprabha could be used in Swacch Bharat Mission. ``The PMO has sent the letter to the concerned ministry. We are promoting the use of Malprabha in various rural areas. If S V Mapuskar had been alive, he would have dedicated it to Swachh Bharat Mission,’’ Mapuskar said.
 
