KOLKATA: Amid the  , the   government has transferred Kolkata’s   deputy high commissioner Zokey Ahad and is replacing him with Toufique Hasan — a Bangladeshi career diplomat now working in its US embassy in Washington as Minister (political). It’s not only Ahad, who moves to Kunming as Consul General, but Bangladesh has also transferred its deputy high commissioner in Delhi, Salahuddin Noman Chowdhury, to Beijing.

 Ahad’s three-year-tenure as the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner in Kolkata would have ended in November. However, Ahad is expected to continue in his office till June till Hasan takes over. For Hasan, a 2001-batch civil servant, it will be his fourth foreign posting. 
 
 Sources said though Ahad was perceived to be close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, he not only failed to convince the CM on the Teesta water-sharing issue but couldn’t even read the tell-tale signs that she would throw a spanner during the three-day Indo-Bangladesh summit in New Delhi. Even the Bangladeshi PM, who shares a personal rapport with the chief minister, was taken by surprise by Mamata’s unwavering stand when she suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Hasina to consider the Torsa alternative instead of Teesta. Later, the Bangladeshi PM had indicated her unwillingness to consider the suggestion. Diplomats said though the Teesta water-sharing pact is yet to be signed, it is already a written agreement. As the Bengal CM did not accompany then-PM Manmohan Singh to Dhaka in 2011, the pact was not signed. Mamata too had stuck to her stand since.
 
 Hasina was visibly upset with Delhi during last month’s meeting after Mamata’s proposal and soon after reaching Dhaka, she had stated that Teesta was their sole aim. The reason is that Hasina will be facing the polls in 2018 and Teesta water is one of her primary poll agenda.
 
 However, some read a subtle tilt of an emerging pro-China policy shift with both India-based diplomats being send there. Last year in October, Chinese President Xi Jinping — making a first trip by a Chinese president to Bangladesh in 30 years — enhanced the Sino-Bangla relations to a strategic partnership as the two countries signed 27 agreements worth billions of dollars. This was not lost on India.
 
 Moreover, experts feel a close proximity with Beijing will help Dhaka have a better bargaining power with India, as already China has built dams on Brahmaputra and that is a major cause of concern for India. So, it seems that Bangladesh is mulling all possible alternative routes to seal the Teesta deal. The country is even ready to provide access to an economic corridor to India along with China and Myanmar and this was recently discussed in the city last week during the Bangladesh, India, China and Myanmar forum track II talks. The next meeting will be held in Myanmar.
 
 
