JAIPUR:   imposes a fine of Rs 1 lakh on North Western Railway, Jaipur for filing a  . The NWR had filed litigation with regard to  , on which the SC has already given its direction. The cost is to be distributed equally among the petitioners. 

 The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma imposed the cost on a petition by Madan Mohan Sharma and 38 others, who were working as part time porters with the North Western railway in Jaipur.
 
 Prem Chand Dewanda, the counsel for the petitioners said the Suprme court on a Special leave Petition by All India Parcel and Goods Porters in 2003 directed the Railways to regularize part time porters after verifying their credentials.
 
 The part time porters working under the North- Western Railway Jaipur also filed petition in the SC in the light of the above decision and the SC ordered to appoint an officer in each zonal railway to decide on the issue.
 
 But HL Meena , the officer appointed under the North western railway, in his report said there is no work of perennial nature at the Jaipur parcel office to regulasure the part time porters. 
 
 The petitioners then field a contempt petition in the SC and the court appointed the assistant regional labour commissioner Lucknow to pass appropriate order within eight weeks and the contempt was dismissed.
 
 As per the SC direction the assistant regional labour commissioner in its report said “Railway administration has already absorbed some of the partial porters in different division except Jaipur in pursuance of the order of the apex court. Hence these workers cannot be discriminated on the pretext of on availability of works. These workers have spent long period of their life for the railways and at this juncture they cannot be deprived from regular job.”
 
 However the North Western railway approached the High Court against the assistant regional labour commissioner’s report on the ground that he had no jurisdiction over Jaipur and obtained a stay. The high court order followed when the petitioners challenged the stay order.
 
 The court observed that the writ petition by the North -Western railways in the high court was misconceived as the order of the assistant regional labour commissioner was in pursuance of the apex court order. The court said an attempt has been made to over reach the process of the court and directions of the apex court. 
 
 
