JAIPUR: At a conference in New Delhi on Tuesday Union minister of state for mines (independent charge)   expressed concern that India stood at a poor 97th of the 104 jurisdictions ranked by the Canada-based Fraser Institute for practises and policy in the mining sector. He was addressing a conference on “Indian Mining Industry 2030 – The Way Forward”, organized by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). 

  of the Jodhpur-based Mine Labour Protection Campaign took the opportunity to highlight the gross negligence and lack of enforcement of labour and human rights laws in mining. Sengupta said there are about 30 lakh mineworkers in Rajasthan alone, working in 33,517 mines and quarries. Of this large workforce, about 37% are women, and 48% of them widows. There are also a large number of children engaged in the stone industry. 
 
 The vast majority of workers have no access to social welfare, and there is nothing to ensure their health and safety. The norm is for human rights to be neglected in the mining sector. Sengupta said over half those engaged in mining are afflicted with various stages of the incurable silicosis. 
 
 Sengupta called for the enforcement of labour laws, proper representation of mineworkers and affected communities in the   (DMFT), budgeting that is sensitive to gender, regular inspections, corporate due diligence. Sengupta explained that while mining falls under the jurisdiction of the Centre, leases and operations are under the jurisdiction of the state government. Poor coordination between the two levels of government and the pass-the-buck syndrome means that labour laws are poorly enforced and no one is held accountable.
 
 Sengupta said the ministry of mines and the ministry of labour and employment of the   should take the initiative to develop a mine workers welfare board for all the mine workers across the country, to build trust among communities and contribute to the sustainable growth of the industry. 
 
 Didar Singh, secretary-general of FICCI, said India is blessed with numerous minerals and these should be tapped for economic growth.
 
 Minister Goyal said lack of accountability in the mining industry and the deep disconnect between central and state entities with regard to enforcement of exhaustive and comprehensive laws prescribed for mining are the reasons why India is ranked poorly by international agencies like Fraser.
 
