 — it’s a beast of a name, and the man who owns it lives up to it. The swashbuckling West Indian’s cricketing prowess on the field, and his presence, wit and charm off the field, make him a complete package of being an entertaining sportsperson. We caught up with the cricketer, who was in the city recently as an investor and brand ambassador for a gaming company located at a mall in Whitefield. Exceprts...

 At the press conference, you mentioned Bengaluru as one of your hometowns. As a professional cricketer who’s well-travelled, and seen and lived in a lot of cities in the world, that’s a big statement to make…
 I’ve been coming here for many years, even before joining the Bengaluru IPL team. The city’s very warm and close to my heart. It’s not a very big city, when you compare it to Mumbai or Kolkata, and that makes it more endearing. People here have always been nice and chill, to be honest with you. I just find myself feeling very relaxed whenever I’m here. It’s definitely my favourite city in India. It has a great stadium to play   in as well. Hearing the entire stadium chant your name, in spite of not being from India, is phenomenal and something I’ll never get tired of.
 
 As an imposing personality on and off the field, you’ve always been a marketable player. What’s the difference in your approach towards endorsements earlier in your career and now?
 Well, it certainly has been different. Right from a young age, I have been associated with brands and sponsors. When you mature as a player and become a dominant force, brands know exactly why they come to you because they know you’re a marketable player. But at the end of the day, cricket is a short-term thing. While I am thankful for having played cricket professionally for 16 years now, I know that at some point in time, I’ll have to walk away from the game, and when that happens, I need something to fall back on.
 
 
  
 
 Does walking away from the game scare you?
 No, not really. In my mind, I know that at some point I will have to move on from the sport, like everyone else. While my time isn’t up yet, I am already prepared for that. And I will be giving back to the sport in my own way. I don’t know in what capacity yet, because my priority after retirement would be to live a normal life and be a family man — you want to start those sorts of things first. Eventually, I’ll see how I can get back into the game of cricket.
 
 At which point in time did it dawn upon you that you could be as marketable as you are now?
 Not too long ago; probably a couple of years ago. Growing up, you’re only focused on playing cricket and you don’t really know what the game has to offer to you. Over the past couple of years, the game has changed a lot and, don’t get me wrong, but if you look carefully, cricket has become big business, just like football. When you realize that you can make a living from cricket outside the pitch as well, it changes your approach to living as well — you stay fitter, physically and mentally, to prolong your career as much as you can. I understood that I can make more out of this, not just on the field, but off it as well, mostly by looking at stars in other sporting fraternities, and try avoiding mistakes that others made.
 
 Do you look up to or read about the lives of sportspersons before you to not make the same mistakes they did when it comes to securing your future financially?
 To be honest with you, I haven’t done that. Of course, you can use people as an example, and avoid going down the route that cost them a lot. But we are all human, and we’re going to feel the heat sometime, however careful you try to be. You have to be prepared to take it in your stride. What’s important is to surround yourself with people who will guide you on the right path.
 
 You’ve been given many nicknames. Do you have any favourites?
 I have been given a lot of names, like Gayle Storm, Gayle Force and Universe Boss. They are all special in their own way. But one nickname that is close to my heart is what I was given when I was young. My friends used to call me Crampy — you won’t believe it, but I was skinny and bony, and used to get a lot of cramps while batting.
 
 Is there a side to   that most people don’t know about?
 No, I don’t think so. I think that they’ve seen it all — on social media, in the papers, everywhere. Chris Gayle likes to have fun and enjoy life, so everything in his life revolves around that.
 
