New Delhi: Driving on the city roads became a nightmare as heavy rains on Tuesday washed away the government’s tall promises on tackling   during the monsoon. Traffic moved at a snail’s pace as the civic bodies struggled to pump out the  . 

 The situation became so bad that travelling five kilometres on Ring Road in   took more than one and a half hours against the usual 15 minutes. The knee-deep ‘pools’ caused several vehicles to break down on crucial stretches, leading to more chaos and stubborn gridlocks. Exactly a month ago, a pre-monsoon shower had choked the capital for hours.
 
 The rains, that started in the afternoon and continued intermittently throughout the day, resulted in choking almost all low-lying areas in south Delhi, including parts of Mehrauli, Govindpuri, Chittaranjan Park, Greater Kailash, Adchini and Malviya Nagar. According to a traffic police estimate, the average speed of the city traffic was reduced to 10kmph for more than four hours in the evening.
 
 The worst stretches between 6pm and 10pm were Chirag Dilli, Nehru Place, Modi Mill, Dhaula Kuan and   that cater to the maximum volume of traffic. Police officers said even stretches like Chanakyapuri, Shanti Path, Tughlaq Road and Teen Murti Marg, considered free-moving, were choked.
 
 Traffic police sources said that apart from the 166 usual choke points, 25 new stretches have been identified in the past one month. Police officers said reminders about taking corrective actions on these stretches were also sent to the civic bodies. In some cases, the police themselves had pointed out the engineering problems on these stretches that could have been rectified. However, apart from desilting some drains, nothing much had changed, said sources. Police officers blamed bad maintenance of roads and poor drainage network for the waterlogging and the resultant chaos. Even an ankle-deep puddle near   caused a jam for kilometres.
 
 Delhiites vented out their anger on the traffic police website. According to police officers, they have formed teams to click photographs of the worst affected stretches and bring it up for discussions with civic agency officials.
 
