CHANDIGARH: A 38-year-old salesman of a liquor contractor was mowed down by a group belonging to liquor mafia in Bhandari village under Matloda sub-division of Panipat district. The victim, identified as Satbir Singh, had died on the spot on January 14 night.

 Police have registered a murder case against four persons on the complaint of the victim's brother Balbir Singh. Among those booked is one Kadam Singh of Matloda, a history-sheeter. Satbir, who used to work for Naresh and Company, was murdered within two days his lodging a complaint against Kadam. He had accused Kadam and his gang of selling liquor illegally. On January 13, police had summoned Kadam for questioning and told him to mend his ways. However, before the patch-up happened between Satbir and Kadam, the former was killed most brutally .
 
 According to sources, Satbir was returning home after collecting sale proceeds from the liquor vends owned by his employers. When he reached near Bhandari, Kadam and associates came there in a jeep.Kadam, who was driving, allegedly knocked down Satbir and ran the vehicle over him repeatedly . Before anybody could react, the accused fled the spot, leaving Satbir seriously injured.
 
 Satbir was rushed to a hospital in Panipat. His brother Mahabir said Satbir had narrated the sequence of incidents before he fell unconscious.
 In a related development, accused Kadam and his men had also set the jeep on fire in the fields of Bhandari near the spot.
 When contacted, Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma claimed that police parties have got vital clues about Kadam and others. “Our teams are conducting raids and we are hopeful of arresting them,“ he said.
 
 Sources informed that Kadam is already facing trial in an attempt to murder case registered against him in Jind.
 In another case, Gurgaon police booked a man for robbing a woman at gunpoint on Sunday night.
 The woman, Anupam, works in  , was returning from work at 9 pm when the incident took place. A resident of Mahipalpur, Anupam crossed the road and boarded a sharing cab from the Sector 17 red-light.Three other women, one in the front seat, were already seated in the cab.
 
 According to Anupam's police complaint, the cab driver drove towards Atlas chowk and stopped the car while all the doors and win dows were locked. He took out a gun and asked the wo men seated behind to hand him their cash, jewellery and phones.
 The victim said that the fourth woman was the accused's accomplice as she wasn't robbed. The accused, after robbing the trio, took a u-turn and dropped them at Iffco Chowk.
 
 An FIR was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 379 of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act on the wee hours of Monday . “It was an unfortunate incident, she was very scared. What has gone is gone and we don't expect to get it back. We're just glad she is safe,“ Dwivedi said.
 “It was a not an authorised taxi, but a private vehicle. We have sent the lost phone numbers for tracking,“ said  , the investigating officer.
 
