They protect the   but can do nothing about their own daughters, wives, sisters and mothers. Over 8,000 police personnel and their families living in   are forced to reside in darkness. Concerned over the safety of their families in absence of adequate streetlights, these cops have made several complaints to authorities but in vain. Such is the situation that several cops have started   outside their homes to light up the area around their homes. Police lines are inhabited by officers of the level of  , Assistant Sub Inspector, Head Constable and Constables.

 Around 8,000 policemen, along with families, live in police lines located in Madhupura (Shahibaug), Ranip, Shahibaug Headquarter, Danilimda, Ellisbridge, Sardarnagar, Khokhra, Hathi Khai (Gomtipur) and Gaekwad Haveli. Safety of families at stake The worst-affected are those living in the Madhupura Police Line with around 900 families, Ellisbridge Police Line with around 250 families and Danilimda Police Line with 500 families, where nearly 70 per cent lights are not functioning.
 
 "I spend hours ensuring the safety of Amdavadis but am helpless when it comes to the safety of my wife and two daughters," lamented Govindsinh Chavda, a head constable who has been living in Madhupura Police Line for a decade. Head Constable Gautam Chauhan who has been living in the same society for 15 years pointed out, "Over years, we have spoken to officials at several departments but we are yet to be given this basic right."
 
 The situation is no different for the residents of Ellisbridge Police Line and Danilimda Police Line which were wrapped in darkness when Mirror visited them late in the evening. While some streetlights were hidden in the tree foliage, there were several with broken and unwired electrical boxes. Due to lack of streetlights, women and children living in these three police lines avoid stepping out of home alone after 9pm. "There have been several accidents too due to lack of lights," said a cop, on condition of anonymity. While Chavda has given up filing complaints, Chauhan and a few others have shelled out between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 on LED lights that have been fixed outside their homes. "Those patches of light that you see are LED lights put up by residents," said a resident constable, speaking on condition of anonymity.
 
 He added that with almost 70 per cent of streetlights not working and officials yet to fulfill their promise of providing welllit streets, the residents' lives are shrouded in darkness. At the Danilimda Police Line, an officer said the situation is worse in monsoon when several cases of short circuit and fused streetlights are reported. Mirror found similar condition of streetlights at the Shahibaug Police Line, Ranip Police Line, Gaekwad Haveli Police Line and Sardarnagar Police Line. While the Gomtipur Police Line has few functional streetlights with residents demanding more. At the Khokra Police Line in Amraiwadi, only the streetlights on the main road were found in working order.
 
 Administrative apathy towards lower rank cops 
 The Gujarat Police Housing Corporation (GPHC), meanwhile, says it is responsible only for new buildings and renovation work. "GPHC sets up new buildings and renovates police departments' buildings and officials' residence. At times we also do electrical work when ordered by seniors but streetlights fall under the administration department's duties," said GPHC Deputy Engineer Bhavesh Jani. Joint Commissioner of Police (Headquarter) R J Savani, meanwhile, said, "Streetlight installation, renovation and upkeep is the responsibility of the Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCP) of Zone 1to Zone 7 of the city police.
 
 All zones are provided sufficient funds and authority to resolve issues." Savani was quick to point out that all streetlights at the Shahibaug Police Line and Gomtipur Police Line, which are his responsibility, do not have any issues and are fully functional. When contacted by Mirror, Director General of Police Geetha Johri said, "I will definitely look into the matter." As per DCP (Zone 4) Parikshita Rathod, who is in charge of Madhupura Police Line, said, "Recently, before the opening of the new police station in Shahibuag, we had resolved all issues related to water supply, cleanliness and streetlights. I will need to investigate the streetlight issue." Other DCPs were not available for comments.
 
