MUMBAI: Nearly 60% fatal   involving BEST   in the past three years were due to bikers and pedestrians being hit from the rear left side of the vehicle, senior officials told TOI on Wednesday. The latest statistics also indicate that rash driving cases have gone up, with 230 drivers being booked in the first nine months of 2016-17, and at least 50 suspended.

 The number of fatal accidents were 47 in 2010-11, but dropped to 30 in 2012-13, before dipping to 21 in 2014-15. But they shot up again to 29 in 2015-16, which raised alarm bells in the transport undertaking, and efforts are on to ensure that the cases dip in this fiscal.
 
 The increase in rash driving cases and fatal accidents (mostly involving rear, left side of the bus), has prompted the undertaking to take preventive measures. The fleet of 3,800 ordinary red buses will have new   mirrors. A senior official said, “We plan to double the height of the rear view mirror near the entry/exit door so that the driver gets a broader view of oncoming vehicles/bikes, and of the road. If he gets a better view of a biker, cyclist or pedestrian while taking a left turn, it will prevent accidents involving the rear left side of the bus.”
 
 All drivers will also have to attend a mandatory refresher course, which will be repeated twice in three years, to test his skills on safe driving. Drivers used to earlier do the course every four years.
 
 BEST committee member Shivji Singh, however, said that merely conducting refresher courses will not discipline drivers. “Rash driving, lane-cutting, signal-jumping and speeding is rampant among BEST drivers. We need to create a psychological profile of our 10,000 drivers and find out why they are behaving irresponsibly,” he said.
 
 Transport activist G R Vora said several drivers were reckless and had little or no concern for fellow motorists, pedestrians or passengers in the bus. “The best solution is dedicated bus lanes so that they do not have any reason to drive rashly; they will also benefit commuters,” he stated. 
 
 More than 300 drivers were booked for rash driving in 2014-15 and 2015-16.
 
 
