It’s a smooth, round, fetching thoppa.   keeps his eyes fixed as he shapes a Ganesha, working the clay into hands and feet and falling folds of silken cloth. Ganesh Chaturthi is round the corner and the days are packed. It is, after all, one of those rare occasions when the artisans at   get to display the best they have to offer; soon enough, it will be back to churning out biryani pots and lassi glasses by the dozen to make a living.

 Located in the heart of Benson town, Pottery Town evokes a rustic charm, with small houses lining both sides of narrow streets, potter’s wheels spinning out clay pots and vases and earthenware left out to dry. But that is only half the picture.
 
 “Pottery town is over 100 years old. Most of the families here had come during the reign of the Mysore king,” says Srinivas, 67. “There were 40-45 shops and they were buzzing with business as people in the old days used clay utensils, unlike the steel, china and melamine products that are popular today. But now, there are only 15-20 shops left, which are also on the verge of shutting down.” Srinivas is one of the oldest workers at the only furnace here, having baked pots and pans since he was a little boy.
 
 The eco-friendly clay Ganeshas of Pottery Town are part of many household pujas. The orders have already been placed and the otherwise grim alleys are humming with activity. Once sought after by the royal family for fine works of art, the potters now are in demand only during festivals such as Diwali or Chaturthi or the wedding season. Artisans say business has fallen by 50-60% in the past 20 years; there are no takers for handcrafted pottery. Flower pots, decorative earthenware and garden hangings, made once or twice a year, gather dust in the shop corners or are stacked carelessly on rooftops.
 
 Around 20 years ago, there were four furnaces in the town, glowing day and night, recall artisans. “Now, only one is left because potters are making few products, disheartened by losses,” says Srinivas. “Even these limited products don’t sell. People living nearby complain of pollution from the furnace.”
 
 Potters say the government is doing little to promote their work. “We have no space to display our products. Even now, when Ganesh Chaturthi is days away, the civic body has dug up the roads, leaving us with no room to put up the Ganesha idols,” says Lakshamaa, a potter.
 
 Barring festivals and the wedding season, the potters’ livelihood is entirely dependent on the demand for tandoors and pots for biriyani and sweets. “Tandoors are the most in demand round the year and mostly purchased in bulk by hotels and catering services. We sell them for Rs 1,500 to 2,500 each,” says Prakash K, whose family moved here from Tamil Nadu several generations ago. “Other than these, we sell pots for sweets which cost Rs 3 each. Even after giving up creative pursuits to earn a living, we are barely able to make ends meet.”
 
 But even the remaining business in earthenware seems to be in danger, given the dwindling resources. Tank clay, which makes for the best moulding, is becoming hard to come by as the city’s lakes are choked or built over, say artisans.
 
 “Currently, we are getting clay from Kolar and Hoskote on the Andhra border, and from other areas around 15km from here where the tank clay is still of good quality and quantity,” says Prakash, who has been in the trade for 40 years.
 
 “Earlier, we use to get clay from city lakes, but now they have been occupied and covered with concrete buildings,” says Chinna Raju, president of Kumbara Kara-Kushala Kaigrahika Sahakara, the potters association. “Now, rates are going up every year. Currently, we pay Rs 2,500-3,500 for a trolley of clay that we get once a week.”
 
 The association has around 100 registered members and 40 families but they are now scattered across Bengaluru in search of business. There is no help from government, says Raju, but adds that the potters don’t want to “get into any kind of politics”.
 
 Rajshekhar, a master craftsman, says the future looks dark. “Shortage of clay caused me to stop crafting items for national and international-level pottery exhibitions in the past three-four years. I had been displaying my work for 20 years,” he says.
 
 Raju returns to his thoppa idols, crafting intricate patterns of jewellery and clothes. The light is dying and he can’t see all too well but there’s nobody he trusts to decorate the idols like he can. At least his clay Ganesha can have no plastic or porcelain rival. 
 
 History of pottery town:
 
 The artisans of Pottery Town have been spinning out works of art for more than 100 years now, 150 if you ask some old-timers. They say potters were brought to the Cantonment area from different parts of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and   to make clay and terracotta cutlery and decorative items for the royals. Now, they have moved on to day-to-day earthenware.
 
 Of old masters...
 
 Chinna Raju, 64 | Owns one of the oldest shops in Pottery Town which was established by his ancestors way before the 1930s. He is the only artisan making the famous thoppa Ganesha idols. Raju makes only 100-odd idols a year on special orders. He crafts the 2-feet tall idols on his own though he can see only partially. Each Ganesha weighs around 30kg and costs Rs 350-500. HH“I know the new generation does not have the patience to make these idols with perfect finish and decoration on it. So I take a little help from my wife when required, or do everything on my own,” Chinna Raju told TOI. “My idols are 100% eco-friendly and I don’t want to compromise on their quality by taking more orders. Apart from Ganesha idols, garden pots and decorative items are my speciality.” Raju’s wife and son help him with the work, especially during the busy weeks.
 
 Raj Shekhar , 47 | Raj Shekhar, a potter for more than 40 years now, proudly tells the story of four generations of his family which has continued the tradition in Pottery Town. His day starts with turning out hundreds of clay glasses for lassi and milkshake shops across the city. Circling his glasses on the electronic pottery machines, he says, “I make around 100 glasses in a day. These are supplied to shops and hotels. After that, I make pots for sweetmeats. Now that I have stopped going on exhibition due to lack of resources, I spend my entire time making these items.”
 
 Raj Shekhar, who has exhibited his works abroad and at home, used to organize live classes as well until about four years ago. He was also registered at Delhi’s Kala Parishad and travelled to Madhya Pradesh, Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh besides almost all districts of Karnataka.
 
 “There is no clay available in nearby areas. All that we get within the city is filled with construction waste. So now many people have decided to move out of Pottery Town. I have now set up my factory at Narayanpura where my son can take up the work as there is no space and raw material available here,” he says.
 
 …And new beginnings
 
 G Ramesh went to Belagavi to earn a diploma in modern pottery so that he could make the special clay and terracotta utensils that have found a place in Bengaluru’s high-end kitchens.Ramesh is now famous in Pottery Town for his terracotta water bottles which keep the water cool and can be carried with ease. Instead of the traditional wheel, he uses a modern pottery machine to make these. But to sell them, he has to get them out. The bottles are available for Rs 100-120 in Pottery Town and Rs 300-500 in busy markets like Commercial Street and Shivaji Nagar and shops in Koramangala, MG Road etc.
 
 “People don’t even know that I make the terracotta bottles which they buy from fancy utensil shops. I sell them for a meagre Rs 100-120. The retailer earns five times the price I sell it at.”
 
 “Since the business has been affected in comparison with what it was 50 years ago, it is important for us to get the next generation on the right track,” says Raj Shekhar, who will soon be putting the fifth generation of his family to work. “My son who is in first year of   will take up fine arts and learn traditional pottery and then go for his masters. He loves doing it and wants to pursue it in future so I have set up a factory in Narayanpura where he will have more space to work.”
 
 The old-timers at Pottery Town say there were 40-45 potters some 20 years ago but the fall in business has taken its toll. Many have moved out to pursue other businesses and jobs, they say, since earnings are low and facilities are on the downside at the town. 
 
 
