MANGALURU: Using pamphlets and organizing meetings to spread messages are passe. Given the ‘viral’ influence of the   in present day lives, especially WhatsApp, Dakshina Kannada district police are increasingly using this medium to reach out to its stakeholders. 

 Buoyed by the success of its   video hosted on its website dkpolice.in and response it received from places as far and wide as the USA, the district police unit is now planning more such videos.
 
 While netizens may access these videos on the website, the presence of these videos is made known to the stakeholders by circulating it on the internal WhatsApp group ‘DK police & Media’. Given the tendency of the mobile users to share videos in their own groups or individually, these videos reach far greater audience quickly, says Bhushan Gulabrao Borase, superintendent of police, referring to queries his police unit received about Graha Suraksha.
 
 “When people in USA tried out Graha Suraksha, it is a clear indicator that the news of this video has reached distant shores without much effort from our side in that direction,” SP told STOI. While Graha Suraksha was an in-house production, the other six videos that are currently available on the website are a mix of sourced and in-house production. Each of these videos deal with a distinct topic and convey the message to the people vividly, he adds.
 
 The spin-off of this move by the district police is that they are now getting requests from media and production houses to replicate the success of Graha Suraksha. “We are getting inquiries from local media and other production house to produce short videos for us.” SP said, adding a call on these requests will be taken as and when the need arises. This is also an indication of willingness of the society at large to engage with the department in the task of policing, he adds.
 
 The police unit which planned to host a short video on RTE Act deferred the same for the last date for filing of application under RTE was over. “We are in touch with both departments of public instruction and social welfare and will take it up as a future project and host videos if any with these departments on our website as well,” SP said adding the whole endeavor is to explore newer areas of engagement with the public beyond the routine crime and law and order.
 
