SAMBALPUR: Postgraduate students of the government-run Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (Vimsar) in Sambalpur launched an indefinite cease-work on Sunday in protest against director Aswini Pujahari's 'high-handedness'.

 They have decided to continue the strike till Pujahari is removed.
 
 Supporting the students, house surgeons and undergraduate students of Vimsar staged a dharna on the premises of the institute on Sunday. "We have resorted to cease-work as the director has created a negative environment here. We are not willing to work under him. Either he is removed or we are relocated," students' representative Himansu Mishra said.
 
 The cease-work comes two days after a couple of PG students allegedly beat up the attendant of a patient and pelted stones at Pujahari's residence on Friday night. Reacting to the violence, locals of Burla, Sambalpur and Hirakud gathered in Burla and gheroed the police station on Saturday to demand the arrest of the unruly students. A section of the residents has also called a bandh on Monday.
 
 Pujahari, meanwhile, has lodged a complaint against those who pelted stones at his house on Friday night and has also offered a proposal to end the standoff. He said the students should apologize to the attendant they allegedly thrashed, accept their mistake in hurling stones at his house and give a written undertaking to police that they would maintain peace. The proposal has been rejected.
 
 The students, who also lodged a police complaint against Pujahari, alleged that he had instigated the public to attack them on Saturday. "We will continue our cease-work till representatives of the government, or the director himself, meets us," a student said.
 
 Pujahari has annoyed students and a section of the teachers with his 'dictatorial' style of functioning and by conducting a series of 'sting operations' to catch Vimsar doctors engaging in private practice during duty hours. His strong style of functioning, however, has endeared him to the public.
 
 When asked if the strike would affect health services, Pujahari said, "We will engage junior teachers in the health service. Moreover, I will work as surgeon to deal with the situation," he added.
 
 Health minister Pratap Jena said the government would talk to all stakeholders for an early resolution of the impasse.
 
