KOLKATA: Narada News boss   on Wednesday filed complaints with   stating he and his family are   by unknown persons. 

 In his complaint to Kerala DGP Loknath Behera, Samuel said while on his way to a doctor's chamber in Cochin on Tuesday, he noticed a white Santro car following him. He tried to ignore it but felt jittery when the same car followed him on his way back. While Samuel did not disclose the car number, he said it had a 'K' registration number and so, could be from Kerala or Karnataka.
 
 His employee Angel Abraham also filed the same complaint. "I am the prime witness in the sting operation and there could be people who want to harm me. I ignored it initially, but the episodes pointed towards a planned attempt to intimidate us," Abraham said.
 
 Samuel has received similar complaints from his wife and daughters in Delhi. While the kids went out for an evening walk with their mother, they saw two persons following them. According to Samuel, the kids reportedly had seen the same persons in the morning. 
 
 CBI investigators in Kolkata have started building the sequence of events in the Narada sting operation based on Samuel's statement. "Putting it in a chronological order and backing it up with the video footage will help finding if there is any criminality. Under Crime Manual (2005), if there is only misconduct of the accused, there is clear provision to send it back to the department with a self-contained note," said an officer.
 
 According to CBI sources, preliminary inquiry is not needed in case of misconduct only. The officials are also trying to find out if the cash accepted by the leaders and the IPS officer was done with any mala fide intention. "We are also noting down complete details of the suspects. If we find overt acts committed by any suspect then his name will be mentioned in the final preliminary enquiry report," said the CBI officer. While no summon is sent during the preliminary enquiry, CBI officials have not ruled out "bare minimum" interrogation along with detailed scrutiny of documents to assess veracity of the allegations.
 
