COIMBATORE: As chief minister O Panneerselvam continues to garner support from   cadre and V K   becomes edgy to become the head of the state, BJPs state general secretary   denies her party’s role in the current political turmoil in Tamil Nadu. Speaking to Adarsh Jain, she justifies governor’s silence and says Panneerselvam is a ‘better leader’ than Sasikala. 

 
 
 There is no role for the BJP to play in this neither as a party nor as the central government. We want political and administrative stability to prevail in the state. The party and the Centre are willing to provide their support for that.
 
 
 
 The governor is an independent authority. He has got the experience and ability to take the right decision. We believe that the decision would be taken soon. I feel that the governor is awaiting the judgment in the disproportionate assets case which is likely to be pronounced on Tuesday. That could be the deciding factor. Also at the same time, there is no clarity on who has the numbers (MLA support).
 
 
 
 We have all witnessed the public sentiment in the last one week since AIADMK announced that Sasikala will be the next chief minister. Every time Jayalalithaa had faced problems, she chose OPS to lead the state. Public have expressed a similar opinion on social networking platforms. As long as she was chosen as the party’s general secretary, BJP did not have any problems as it was their party affair. But now we are on the same page as Tamil Nadu people.
 
 
 
 
 The support for OPS is increasing day by day. MLAs and MPs have slowly started realizing people’s sentiments. But, commenting on who will win the battle will be premature. We have to wait and watch.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, after former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s demise, there is no single leader in AIADMK able to lead the party. In DMK too, M K Stalin is not as charismatic a leader as his father M Karunanidhi. We would like to tell people of Tamil Nadu that BJP could be the party that could live up to their expectations.
 
 
