The Mumbai-Ahmedabad   corridor will be opened to private players who will be able to run their own trains, similar to ones operating in Europe and Japan.

 Private players will be able to enter the field only after the fifth year of bullet train operations. “They will be able to bring in their own rakes.They can design coach layouts as they like. They can also appoint train crew,“ said a senior railway official.
 
 Private operators will be given time slots, to be provided by the   (NHSRC), which is executing the bullet train project. “It will be similar to the airline industry , in which airlines operate flights on various sectors by paying a fee to the   (AAI),“ an official said.
 
 A private bullet train operator will have to pay access charges for using stations and track infrastructure. “The operator will have the independence to fix fares. Of course, it goes without saying that fares must be competitive if the operator wants to remain in business,“ the official said.
 
 The private trains must have all safety features that one may find in Japan's Shinkansen trains, which is the model the government will follow for its own operations.“The operators will have to carry out maintenance of rakes at their own expense,“ said the official.
 
 Private high speed trains do good business in countries of the European Union, and also in the UK. Apart from point-to-point services, these operators come out with package tours that include sightseeing and accommodation.Among such private bullet trains are Thalys (the famous red train that connects Belgium and France, and also Netherlands and Germany), Eurostar (operates between the UK and mainland Europe) and Frecciarossa in Italy (serves all main Italian cities like Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan and Naples).
 
 “Mumbai and Ahmedabad are commercial powerhouses, but also good places for tourists,“ an official said.
 
 
 
 
 Bullet train stations will reflect the culture and heritage of the respective cities. For example, the Sabarmati station will reflect India's struggle for independence because of its connection with Mahatma Gandhi. Officials connected with the project said local authorities will be consulted on station design, which will reflect the most important monument of a city. They may also feature star hotels and airport-like amenities.
 
