NAGPUR: The nullahs and natural tributaries in the city are shrinking due to cropping up of encroachments and large-scale dumping of construction debris and other waste. Experts said reduction in the width of streams was the main cause of flooding during rains.

 The perennial nullah near   building on Koradi Road, which is said to be a tributary of   river and starts from Hazaripahad, is the perfect example. With unauthorized constructions coming up around it and unchecked dumping of waste, the nullah’s width is steadily declining.
 
 On one bank of the stream,   (NIT) has laid a sewage pipeline over a month ago while on the other side, hutments have come up, shrinking the stream. “The earth dug-up during laying of the pipeline was dumped into the nullah. Nearby residents dump garbage on the banks which is blown into the bed by wind. Due to this, the depth and overall water carrying capacity of the nullah is decreasing,” residents said.
 
 According to them, a builder had dumped construction debris in a nearby nullah two-to-three years back. “He had completely filled-up the nullah. After repeated complaints, the builder was forced to dig-up the debris and clear it,” residents added. 
 
 “Disturbing a water body can have severe consequences. The water carrying capacity decreases and the water jumps banks. It will lead to loss of property as well as lives,” said an official of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). 
 
 Residents said despite repeated complaints, civic agencies were not ready to take corrective action. “NIT’s job is to develop the area. Checking dumping of waste into nullah and cleaning it is Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s duty,” said an NIT official. 
 
 Residents said that after their complaints, the nullah was cleaned but not properly. “Only the bushes on bed and banks of the nullah were removed. We fear that the nullah will jump the banks and water will flow into our houses during monsoon,” they added. 
 
 A protective wall is also needed. “Children play near the nullah and many times, their ball goes inside. There is a high risk of them falling into the stream,” residents said adding that the proposal for constructing a wall for it was pending. 
 
 Bhushan Shingane, trustee of NIT and local corporator, assured the nullah would be cleaned. “It overflows during heavy rains. A wall is needed but it will cost around Rs15 crore and NMC’s financial condition is not good,” said Shingane.
 
