JALANDHAR: On the last day of campaigning in Jalandhar Cantt constituency, where villages are known as hockey’s nursery, cricketer turned politician   batted for hockey legend Pargat Singh who is locked in a tough electoral match for the state assembly election. Pargat is facing contest from AAP and SAD candidates.

 Sidhu was at his attacking best against Badals and Aam Admi Party while seeking support for Pargat, who captained hockey team twice in the Olympics and was known as a full back who could also turn a striker at crucial moments. Some prominent former Indian hockey players – including Surinder Singh Sodhi – who Captained of Gold winning team of 1980 Olympics and Colonel Balbir Singh (Retd), were also present on the stage to extend their support to Pargat and Sodhi made an appeal for votes.
 
 The rally which held on Thursday at Dussehra ground of Jalandhar Cantt, near village Sansarpur – which has produced over 300 hockey players including 14 Olympians and Pargat got a Astro Turf laid there – witnessed good turnout and crowd repeatedly cheered Sidhu who was mocking and attacking Badals left right and centre. He also projected Pargat as a man of character who preferred to stand with people of his constituency and locked horns with those ruling the state.
 
 As he attacked Badals, he did not name the Shiromani Akali Dal and said that their working was in complete contrast to what was preached and practiced by the Sikh Gurus. After attacking Badals on several counts for “loot” and “thrashing” of people he also turned to “Topian Wale” (AAP) “who could sell anybody very cheap for their interests”.
 
 As he narrated his meetings with Arvind Kejriwal and Durgesh Pathak (who called on Sidhu repeatedly) he said that after the first round of talks he (Sidhu) was told that he would not contest but three months later they offered him deputy chief minister’s post. “When I asked them that who will be CM they said it would be decided later. Then I received calls from three persons and I will not name them, who told that it is matter of just one year that Kejriwal will be CM and afterwards it will be your turn but I told them that whatever was being decided should be told to the people.”
 
 He also compared over 50 observers of the AAP from Delhi in Punjab with “Kaale Angrez” and termed the “Dilliwalas” acting as East Indian company. 
 
 “In Congress we know who is the bridegroom (CM candidate) as it is Captain Amarinder Singh but let Kejriwal tell the people that entire Baraat is ready and who will be their groom,” he asked. “AAP leaders made selective leaks to the media now compare it with my meetings with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi there was no leak to media at all,” he said. Sidhu played up Punjabi pride as he concluded his speech.
 
