Porvorim: Throwing light on the involvement of Francis Pereira, the main accused in the   of several religious structures, CM Manohar Parrikar told the Goa legislative assembly on Wednesday that   while being lodged at Aguada jail in 2000 in an attempt to murder case, came in contact with Israeli jail mates who brainwashed him that idol worship was wrong.

 Terrorist Osama bin Laden, Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and slain timber-mafia don Veerappan were his idols, Parrikar said while responding to a Calling Attention tabled by opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar and senior Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane.
 
 “After contesting elections and losing them, I think he shot his opponent. He went to jail and while in Aguada, he met some Israelis who convinced him that idol worship is not correct. All souls enter these crosses, small temples and these souls do wrong things (Pereira was told). Therefore these souls should be released.” Parrikar said.
 
 Pereira was arrested last week after several cases of desecration in South Goa.
 
 Parrikar said after his release in 2003 till 2017, he single-handedly destroyed places of worships even as opposition members raised doubts whether Pereira alone was involved in all the cases. “On his acquittal, the first thing he did after returning home was destroy all the altars at his home. See how brainwashing happens. His role models are Saddam Hussein, Bin Laden, Veerappan,” Parrikar said.
 
 “Pereira was involved in 113 cases of desecration,” said Parrikar, adding that he confessed to the police some incidents which were not in their records. Parrikar said the police doesn’t rule out the involvement of more persons, the investigation so far has revealed that he operated without any help.
 
 Earlier, Kavlekar said it ought to be investigated if there were any lapses on the part of the police since it took them so long to arrest Pereira. Parrikar said that since he operated single-handedly, his actions went unnoticed for long. 
 
 Parrikar said he would sight crosses in his cab – Pereira drove a taxi - and then break them with a hammer. In fact, his driving profession provided him an alibi to be on the move and he could do what he wanted with ease. While some have raised eye brows over how 50-something Pereira could climb a high cemetery wall in Curchorem where he desecrated a cross. Parrikar clarified that Pereira has demonstrated before the police that he could do it. 
 
 “Police are not leading him,” clarified Parrikar in response to a taunt by Ponda MLA Ravi Naik. Naik said it looks like Pereira just follows police wherever they take him. Parrikar said Pereira is a vegetarian and did not consume alcohol with a fear that souls trapped in the religious structures would get to him while destroying them. 
 
 Clarifying about bank deposits held by Pereira, Parrikar said he came into some money when a family property was sold for Rs 25 lakh. Also, being a taxi driver, he earned about Rs 60,000 a month.
 
 Explaining the measures taken, Parrikar said, all police station incharge, night patrolling officers and other police personnel have been directed to pay a visit to important places of worship during the nights. Over 500 police personnel, including IRBs, ATS and special branch pfficers have been deployed whereas patrolling in plain clothes is being conducted in private vehicles.
 
 “Google mapping of the affected area has been done. The areas have been divided into small zones and each police team is concentrating on its own zone,” Parrikar said.
 
 
