CHENNAI: While   makes headlines every Maundy Thursday for his unique pastoral style of washing the feet of prisoners for this  , in Chennai, priests of the   have been visiting jails and doing the same for more than a decade now.With compassion, but without ceremony . . They may feel rejected and dejected but this act of having their feet washed by a priest is just our way of saying God is still by their side,“ says Rev Fr G J Antonysamy, who heads the   of Madras Mylapore.

 The Maundy Thursday feet-washing is a religious rite observed by various Christian denominations across the world, commemorating the act of Jesus washing the feet of his disciples a day before he was crucified. The ritual is symbolic of humility , love, forgiveness and spiritual cleansing.
 
 Every Maundy Thursday , reverends from the Archdiocese of Madras take turns to visit the three prisons in Puzhal as well as the other central prisons and district jails in  .
 
 The reverends visit the jail wings housing convicts and those in remand, while the mother generals conduct the ritual in the women's prison. “We included the wo men's prison because the pope had said that feet washing should not just be restricted to men, but must include women as well,“ says Jesu Raja, a volunteer with the prison ministry since 1993.
 
 And not a year goes by, says Raja, where tears are not shed, both by the prisoners and those witnessing the ceremony .
 
 “No words need to be spoken. The very act says everything. It is touching to see the prisoners having their feet washed and by the end of the ceremony, it almost feels like they are having a change of heart,“ says Raja. Most of the prisoners who partake in the ritual are Christians.
 
 The superintendents at the jail consider it a wonderful gesture. “The priests have been coming here every year, and performing this ritual on Maundy Thursday morning. It is a good thought,“ says one of the prison staff.
 
 The Vatican announced that on Holy Thursday, Pope Francis will wash the feet of inmates at the Paliano prison in Italy , known for housing `collaborators of justice' against the mafia. In the past, Pope Francis had washed the feet of women, Muslims, and refugees.
  
 
