PUNE: Playing an intense game, he mixed offence with defence, stroke making with gamesmanship and met a mini-crisis during the match with a big heart. Ramkumar 
 virtuoso display dismantled   of New Zealand 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 and extended India's lead in the Asia-Oceania Group One   tie to 2-0 at   on Friday . 

 Earlier,  , playing his first Davis Cup match in 16 months, defeated Finn Tearney 6-4, 6-4, 6-3. Though he was in control of the match, he failed to conjure up consistently good patches. Both matches lasted for about two hours each as the Kiwis were found lacking in hard work and shotmaking. Lady luck was also not in their corner.
 
 Now, the stage is set for  ' theatrics in the doubles tie on Saturday evening to give Indian an unassailable lead. Pune is hosting its first Davis Cup tie in 43 years.And though the action didn't last for many hours on the opening day, there was no room for complaint as India hit the right notes.
 
 Both Ramkumar and Statham began with consistently more powerful serves t h an t h e e arl ie r m atch (180kmph to 200kmph). In the fourth game, Ramkumar showed good retrieving, solid defence and a clean forehand inside-out winner for the break.Then, he held his serve on three service games by being in command most of the time.
 
 The initial phase of the second set was not smooth, especially on Ramkumar's service games. He had to come out of the jail at 0-40 in the fourth game. The manner in which he came out of that set the tone for the remaining match. First, he relied on solid defence; and then came up with a serve-andvolley winner (backhand crosscourt), pointing at his heart in celebration. The seventh game was just stolen under Statham's nose with sheer willpower and smartness.Ramkumar made nice switches of single-handed and double-handed backhands, suddenly increased the volume of his grunts for no apparent reason and came up with varied trajectories and angles from the baseline.To top it all, the break was attained via a double-fault when the Indian changed his grip and was semi-swinging his racquet when Statham was in his service motion.
 
 With Ramkumar winning a major share of longish rallies in the early phase of third set, Statham had a mountain to climb with bite in his serves going for a toss. In the fifth game, the situation got on to his nerve as errors of judgment, shot selection and execution gave Ramkumar the break of serve.
 
 Earlier, Yuki won in about two hours, hitting winners and unforced errors aplenty . The Indian was broken three times in the first two sets but got seven breaks of serve in three sets of his own. Yuki and Tearney took a lot of time in finding their groove ­ peppering soft errors with good shots. Maybe, there were early butterflies in the stomach which weren't calmed quickly . Still, Yuki was easily the better of the two players. He also showed more imagination.
 
 The memorabe moment came in the fifth game of the third set. Yuki's forehand cross-court return was answered with a bullet forehand by the Kiwi. But Yuki answered that with a caressed forehand crosscourt drop that cockled the hearts. Even Paes gave a standing ovation.
 
 
