NEW DELHI: Three students of a private university died and four of their mates were battling for life when the   car they were travelling in to appear for their first-year exam crashed through the railings of a railway bridge near   in west Delhi, and fell nearly 40 feet to the ground on Monday morning.

 The seven students were driving to their exam centre in Narela. Ritu, 19, and Sanchit, 20, died on the spot, while Rajat, 22, whose family owned the car, died in hospital hours later. Preliminary enquiry suggests the car’s rear wheel had come off, throwing the vehicle out of control.
 
 Police said the four other occupants — Pranav, Garima, Rishabh and Raja — were being treated at different hospital for severe fractures in the head and spine.
 
 The crash was reported around 9am, when the Honda City driven by Rajat came on the bridge from east  . The two girls, Ritu and Garima, were sharing the front passenger seat while four boys were sitting in the rear. All of them were busy in last-minute preparations for their second semester examination.
 
 Suddenly, while travelling over the Shakurbasti railway bridge, Rajat lost control of the vehicle and it swerved to the left, ramming into the side railing. The car broke through the railing, twisted in the air and landed on its roof. One of the girls was thrown out of the window as the fall crushed the car’s roof. Locals said they heard a loud crash and thought that a passing train had derailed. “The car had it wheels up. We had to overturn the vehicle before pulling out the occupants,” said Manish, an eyewitnesses.
 
 Residents of a JJ colony next to the railway tracks used stones and iron rods to rip open a door of the car to pull out the youths. “When we straightened the car we found all the youths in it unconscious. Some of us picked up stones from the railway lines to smash the remainings glass from the windows and pulled them out one by one until the cops arrived,” said  , a resident of the colony. Some of them even got gas cutters to cut open parts of the smashed vehicle to pull out the last of the occupants.
 
 A PCR team arrived within a few minutes and took them to a government hospital, where Ritu and Sanchit were declared dead on arrival. They were identified from their college identity cards. Rajat’s parents, who stay in east Punjabi Bagh, were informed about the incident after which he was shifted to a private hospital, where he died during treatment.
 
 “We had to shift three of them to AIIMS trauma centre. The statement of one of students could be recorded in which he mentioned the examination. All of the injured are unconscious since the crash,” said DCP(west) Vijay Kumar.
 
 Probe revealed that all the youths, staying in different parts of Delhi had assembled at Rajat’s house early on Monday morning from where they had planned to drive to the exam centre together. Rajat’s father is a businessman based in Punjabi Bagh. Police said Ritu and Sanchit’s parents were handed over their bodies after an autopsy at the Sanjay Gandhi hospital. The car would be examined by an expert to establish the exact cause of the accident.
 
