HYDERABAD: The man who has been the face of the cab drivers' strike in the city, it turns out, is a 'blacklisted' Ola cabbie.

 This was brought to light by fellow cab drivers on Saturday who confessed that Shiva Vulkundakar was made the president of the   (TCDOA) only because he was ‘articulate’. “Shiva worked as a driver only for a few months. Now he runs some small business. When the agitation started, he appeared to be sympathetic to the cause and was able to reach out to people better than any one of us. So, we made him the face of our association,” another office bearer with TCDOA said.
 
 Incidentally, it was months before he took up the mantle (of being president) that Shiva's services were discontinued. Sources allege that he was impersonating someone and did not even have a legal ID of his own.
 
 "He is not a driver. As far as I know, he never worked with Ola or Uber. Some say that he unlawfully used another person’s ID and drove a cab for a few months. But only Ola knows the truth,” another driver said.
 
 Some drivers confessed that the strike was taking a serious toll on their pockets. “We never realised that it would come to this and we would have to stay off work for so long. These leaders are provoking our own people to attack us if we report to duty. It was time we spoke up,” said an aggrieved cab driver. 
 
 Those opposed to Shiva's ‘dramatics’ claimed that the driver-turned-leader was restoring to such antics to forward his political aspirations. “When we decided to call for a strike, all organisations decided to do it under the Joint Action Committee (JAC). But Shiva called a separate strike so that he can hog all the limelight,” a cabbie from   said.
 
  But Shiva is not the only one with a dubious distinction. Turns out most drivers at the forefront of this now eight-day strike are 'blacklisted' cabbies who no longer have a job with Ola or Uber.
 
 "This is true, though in some cases the reasons are unknown. A few were called back later," said a driver associated with Uber.
 
 When contacted, Uber said: "We can’t speak for Ola, but Shiva never worked for us. He seems to be the go-to man to hold any kind of protests and demonstrations. Not just this time, even last time too, majority of people who protested against us were blacklisted candidates and that is the reason why we could get restraining orders against them with little effort.” Ola officials, meanwhile, could not be reached despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
