THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The conciliatory talks, convened by education minister C Raveendranath with student union leaders of  , failed to reach a consensus on Wednesday. Student leaders said they would continue the agitation until principal Lekshmi Nair quit, a demand which the education minister refused to discuss at the meeting. Students have been conducting protest at the academy for a fortnight. 

 "The talk touched upon various academic and infrastructure issues raised by the students, including the alleged injustice shown by the principal towards students in allocation of internal marks. The minister suggested solutions to redress the complaints regarding the allotment of internal marks. Since our primary demand of Nair's ouster was not discussed, we will continue our strike," said student leaders after the meeting.
 
 Since the academy is a private institution, the government is not in a position to grant their demand. "The government would take appropriate decision on the basis of the recommendations of  , which has already set up a committee to study the grievances of students," the minister told student leaders. Representatives of SFI, KSU, ABVP and   attended the meeting. This is the first direct government intervention in this case after students started their agitation.
 
 Earlier, veteran leader VS Achuthanandan visited the academy and expressed solidarity with the student agitation. He demanded the resignation of Nair and asked the state government to take immediate steps to recoup the 12 acres of excess government land under the custody of the academy's management.
 
  president V M Sudheeran also demanded the resignation of the principal and said the government should take over the law academy functioning on government land. Meanwhile,   national executive member V Muraleedharan began a 48-hour fast in front of law academy on Wednesday with the demand that principal should step down and that the government should take over the institution.
 
 In a related development, social activist K M Shajahan filed a complaint before vigilance director Jacob Thomas seeking a probe into the irregularities committed by the academy's management. The complainant alleged that academy's management misused 34.5 cents it obtained from the government to construct 10-storeyed commercial-cum-residential building.
 
 
