Hyderabad: Chinese handset maker Xiaomi, that crossed the $ 1 billion revenue mark in India in 2016, is hopeful of launching products in three to four new categories this year,   India head Manu Jain told TOI. However, he added that the company is yet to zero in on the new product categories that will be rolled out.

 Xiaomi entered India in 2014 and apart from smartphones, the Chinese tech player sells air purifiers, wearables, bluetooth speakers and power banks here.
 
 Apart from phone and routers, none of Xiaomi’s products are designed by the company but are developed by its ecosystem companies in which Xiaomi holds majority stake. Xiaomi has 77 such ecosystem companies, of which 20 have launched products till now.
 
 “In India, we have launched new products from two of our ecosystem companies – Mi Band and Mi Air Purifier and both are category leaders. We hope to launch three to four new product categories in India this year and they will be customised for the market,” said Jain, who was in Hyderabad to unveil the company’s latest smartphone, Redmi Note 4.
 
 In Hyderabad, Xiaomi also displayed an installation of Mi Home, wherein it showcased various products such as Mi Air Purifier 2, Mi Bluetooth Speaker, Mi Powerbanks, Mi Robot, Mi Notebook Air apart from Redmi Note 4.
 
 On expectation from Redmi Note 4 sale, Jain said that the number is expected to be twice the sale figure of Redmi Note 3. It had sold 3.6 million Redmi Note 3 handsets in 2016.
 
 As per IDC data, Xiaomi has become the third-largest smartphone brand across the top 30 cities in India. Over 75% of its smartphones sold in the country are manufactured at Sri City in Andhra Pradesh by its partner Foxconn.
 
 On its manufacturing plans, he said, the company has to ramp up its manufacturing as the sales volume has grown 2.5 times in the last one year. “We are open to new manufacturing sites and are studying various sites with our partner Foxconn but nothing concrete has been decided,” he added.
 
 The company, that had invested around $25 million in Hungama Digital Media Entertainment in April last year, is also planning to invest in mobile tech startups in the country this year. “We have been in active conversations with a few startups in the India and are looking at a long-term strategic partnership,” he added.
 
 
