CHENNAI: Caretaker 
  on Wednesday said a committee will be constituted to probe the mystery surrounding the 
  .

 Addressing mediapersons outside his residence, Panneerselvam said, “There have been doubts about Amma’s death. An investigation commission headed by a sitting Supreme Court judge is needed to look into Amma’s death as it is the duty of a government to eliminate doubts of people. We will constitute a committee.” 
 
 He said he had never been disloyal to the  , as accused by party general secretary V K Sasikala and her supporters.
 
 “I have been following the footsteps of Amma and I will continue to do so,” he said. 
 
 Asked how many MLAs were supporting him, the chief minister said, "My power will be seen in the assembly." 
 
 “I’ll meet the Governor when he comes to Chennai. My strength will be known in assembly. Will meet people in every village,” he said.
 
  “A proper election must be held to elect the party general secretary. We now have a temporary general secretary, who was nominated under an extraordinary situation,” he said.
 
 He said it was be a big lie to say that BJP was behind this. 
 
 “Deepa is the daughter of Amma’s brother. I have respect for them,” he said when he was asked if he would be open to get 
  . 
 
 Panneerselvam asked party MLAs to consider what the people in their constituencies want before they take a decision on whom to support.
 
 Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan and party leader PH Pandian were with Panneerselvam when he addressed the media.
 
 Pandian said, "On Dec 5, the day   died, I told   I will support him. We have to protect the man who struggled to make jallikattu a law. Sasikala can't remove OPS from the post of party treasurer." 
 
 He said "sensational news" about Sasikala's family would be revealed by Wednesday evening.
 
 Meanwhile, AIADMK MLAs met at the party headquarters. 
 
 The MLAs said were awaiting the Governor's invite to Sasikala to form the government. If there is no official word from Governor, the party plans to meet President Pranab Mukherjee to intervene.
 
  The party claimed it had the support of 131 MLAs for Sasikala. O Panneerselvam (Bodinaikanur), K Manickam (Sholavandan) and VC Arukutty (Kavundampalayam) did not participate.
 
 
 
 
