CHENNAI: Hyperloops may appear to be a far cry from reality, but railway minister   has expressed interest in pursuing the 
  shuttling through a   installed on pillars.

 Los Angeles-based company Hyperloop One has announced five new lines in India selected through a global challenge and is now urging people to vote for the first line that should be built in the country.
 
 The lines include 
  (334 km in 20 minutes), which is a passenger and freight corridor that is growing at 15% a year, Mumbai-Kolkata via Chennai (220 minutes), and Mumbai-Chennai via Bengaluru (1,102 km in 50 minutes), which has the potential to boost the capacity of ports in Mumbai and Chennai and create “a   like link between the two coasts,“ according to Hyperloop One.
 
 Prabhu, who was in the city to inaugurate a host of projects on Saturday , said that the ministry was exploring the project. Officials from Hyperloop One met government officials including those from   this week. The railway minister also took part in a programme which discussed Vision for India organised by Musk's company.
 
 Prabhu said that the railway ministry was looking at increasing speed. “We want to improve the speed of existing trains. We are also working on semi high speed and high speed trains also. We will invite global players for 600km so that futuristic technology can be used in India.“
 
 Referring to hyperloops, he said, “We will not import technology . The technology will be started in India and developed and made here.“ Railways already have tie-ups with Japan, Korea, Germany and China for developing high speed trains and new technology for transport. A press statement from Hyperloop One says that India received the highest entrants when asked to register for the challenge to identify lines. “India led the way with highest registrations and had the most vocal supporters of Hyperloop One on social media.“
 
 Prabhu also said that the next round of investment would come in the transport sector. Encouraged by the online response, Hyperloop One seems to be bullish about India. Shervin Pishevar, executive chairman of Hyperloop One, said in a press release that “India is an extremely important geography for developing Hyperloop networks and reimagining how cities and regions work.“
 
