NASHIK: Lack of availability of power with   State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ) has forced it to implement power   across the state in select feeders. This has affected the agriculture belt of Nashik.
 
 The rise in the demand of power has been more than 2,000 mw this year as compared to last year the MSEDCL is falling short or around 1,500 mw of power as a result of which it has to implement load shedding in some of the agriculture feeders.
  
 "The power is not available in our area as a result of which we are not able to take watering works for the farms. Even as there is less agriculture activity, but we do not have vacation or holiday and postpone our works for Kharif season. We have to do them now," Sainath Khandve, from Niphad taluka said.
  
 There may be nothing in the farms, but the orhcards have no season of watering. They need water now. When ground water levels have gone down and there is high demand for water, obviously we need power, Keshav Dhomse, another farmer from Pimplagaon, said.
  
 The current demand for power is around 18,000 mw, the sources from power company said, adding that the shortfall of 2,000 mw is being made up by the MSEDCL from the central power grid and even the private power producers.
  
 Some of the power units of Mahagenco (State power generation utility) are closed as a result the direct power supply to the MSEDCL is being hampered. The Koradi (Unit X - 660 mw), Khaparkheda (II - 220), Parali (VIII - 210), Adani (1 - 660), Rattan India (IV, V - 270 each) are closed for technical works as a result of which the MSEDCL is short of 3,000 mw of power.
  
 Besides, the Chandrapur (Unit VII - 500 mw), Koradi (VI - 210), Sipat (I - 400), Tarapur (4 - 400) have already been shut down for planned maintenance as a result of which the MSEDCL is short of 4,000 mw of power across the state.
  
 Considering the rise in demand and the short of availability of power, the MSEDCL has decided to implement load shedding only in the feeders from where the recovery is very low.
  
 "We are following the formula laid down by the energy regulator -   (MERC) in the power cuts which clearly states that the feeders that are high on distribution and commercial loses will lose the power supply first and the prompt payers will be affected last," the MSEDCL officer said adding that the load shedding was a temporary phase for the next few days only and that the things would be back to normal.
  
 Accordingly the MSEDCL has classified the feeders from A to F and from G1, G2, G3 categories, with A being the best performer.
  
 Currently the residents of G1 to G3 feeders, largely in the rural areas - the agriculture   - are facing the power shortage. "In most parts of the state the agriculture power is on low demand this time of the year. Besides, the MSEDCL is affecting minimum load shedding in these villages. The power is however being made available in the night to help the needy to use the same for agriculture purpose. The home lighting however will continue as the single phase power supply is not being affected due to it," the officer said.
 
