Surat: At a time when tens of thousands of denizens in the city, particularly in the Rander and Katargam municipal zones, are suffering due to typical odor in the potable water, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to put aerators in Tapi river to increase the quantity of dissolved oxygen in Tapi river. 

 Official sources said the thick mat of water hyacinth, which has covered a huge part upstream of Tapi river from Singanpore to Sarthana water works, has become a cause of worry. It (water hyacinth) causes complete depletion of dissolved oxygen, which is essential for fish, birds and other aquatic life. Thus, there is an urgent need to place aerators at the close distance of the water works, from where the water is pumped from the river. 
 
 The city’s daily requirement of water is 1,150 million liters per day (MLD). Around 96% of the area under SMC is covered with the pipeline network. There are eight water works namely Sarthana, Katargam, Varachha, Rander, Kosad, Mota Varachha, Simada and Dindoli from where the water is distributed to the residents. 
 
 The presence of water hyacinth has deteriorated the water quality with each passing day. The civic body is more concerned with the fact that the water hyacinth, if not cleared from the river at war footing, is only going to multiply the problems in the summer season. 
 
 The plants are also known to carry pathogens, which infect several crops. The plant cover provides obnoxious smell, colouring matter and suspended particulate matter in water. The rate of organic matter production by water hyacinth is so high that the dead organic matter accumulates in the water body.
 
 Recently, the hydraulic department had conducted testing the water samples collected from the water works, distribution centres and the end supply points in all the seven municipal zones. 
 
 The test results indicated that the quality of water supplied to the denizens is at the agreeable limit as per the drinking water quality standards specified by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BSI). However, the odour in the water supplied is due to the presence of water hyacinth in the river and that it not at all harmful.
 
 Talking with TOI, additional city engineer, KH Khatwani said, “We are putting aerators in the Tapi river from where the water is pumped into the water works. The issue of odour from the water is faced by the residents in Rander and Katargam zones. However, the water testing reports do not indicate any alarming situation.”
 
 Khatwani added, “The aerators will increase the dissolved oxygen in the river water and will help us in controlling the discolouration of the water and the odour issue as well.”
 
 
