INDORE: Sixty one per cent of school students and 57 per cent college students have suggested that they post on social networking sites with the security settings turned on to ‘public’ mode, exposing themselves to a number of dangers in the virtual world.

 The findings surfaced in a recent study conducted by   and cyber expert  .
 
 Experts claimed this was a huge number of students that expose themselves to great harm.
 
 Forty four per cent of school and 58 per cent of college students say they have more than 1,000 friends on social networking sites. This huge number of virtual friends for a user who is a student proves that a majority of the users on their friend list are strangers.
 
 “Awareness is the bedrock of altered human behaviour and performance. Keeping this in mind, this huge numbers of students will have to be approached immediately and be made aware about the security drill to be followed on  . Given the huge shortfall in cyber security guides in this country, this is no easy task,” said Kapoor.
 
 “This trend can lead to theft of personal information including photographs. Photographs uploaded without any security measures can be used to make fake ID cards, SIM cards, AADHAR cards and the like,” he said.
 
 Apart from this, most students are obsessed with selfies these days, which might create problems for them. The study mentions that a selfie from a mobile device which is GPS enabled carries information about the latitude and longitude of the place where the picture was taken. This feature is called geo-tagging.
 
 “If this photo is uploaded on the internet it can be used to stalk the person who posted it, as his/her location can be easily obtained by downloading the photo and right clicking on ‘properties’ to obtain the latitude and longitude and hence the exact location via Google maps,” said Kapoor.
 
 It is clear that high school and college students in India still have a long way to go as far as awareness regarding safe and secure behaviour on Facebook and similar social networking platforms is concerned.
 
