Nagpur: The primary intent of   and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (IBC) is to have a unified and consolidated law that applies to all economic actors which talks of typical institutional mechanism, said PV Rao, a corporate lawyer, on Wednesday. 

 The functional success of the legislation will depend on the quality of insolvency professionals, termed as resolution professionals, Rao said in his address at an interactive session on ‘Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016: A revival of distressed SMEs’, at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Intellectual Property Management, Civil Lines. 
 
 Rao said that keeping in mind the litigations for NPA resolution, this code is a departure from timeless to time-bound process. The procedure cannot exceed 270 days which involve 180 days after admission of insolvency application and extension for 90 days. If either the borrower or creditor fails to act, then the person has to be necessarily liquidated. Thus, the time constraint ensures speedy recovery, he added. 
 
 MLC Anil Sole, well-known economist Shriniwas Khandewale and sectary of the association Sudhir Paliwal were seated on the dais. 
 
 Rajendra Ganatra, ex-managing director of Indian SME Asset Reconstruction Co Ltd, said that SMEs should adopt IBC and come up with a credible resolution plan which is possible through an information memorandum described under section 29. 
 
 No business which is trying to rise from ashes would run without a fuel called capital. This can be obtained through priority lending so that SMEs have to learn to get their partners and follow business ethics. They should also hire management and technical consultants, Ganatra said.
 
 IBC, drawn from the best and evolved codes globally, was an efficient vehicle for restructuring of financially distressed companies, particularly in SME sector, he said. Restructuring based on RBI guidelines had been unsuccessful so far due to the companies’ failure to meet the terms. A major reason for this was abysmally low NPA recovery of 13.7% in India as compared to Japan (92.5%) and   countries (68.8%) according to the World Bank, he added. 
 
 
