PUNE: Salim  , the bus driver who saved the lives of 52   pilgrims after the bus came under fire from terrorists at Botengo village, near Anantnag, on July 10, was on Tuesday felicitated for his brave act by city-based NGO Sarhad. 

 Speaking on the sidelines of the function, Shaikh said, “People should not look at them (Muslims) with suspicion as they too are citizens of the country.” 
 
 Sometimes I find people either talking or looking at me with suspicion which should not happen, he added. 
 
 “If you do good work, people will appreciate it, irrespective of your caste or religion. Last week, I was felicitated by Gau Rakshaks in Gujarat. It felt very nice. It shows people do notice your good work,” he said.
 
 Recalling the horrifying incident, Salim said, “After taking Darshan at Amarnath, we started on our return journey in the evening. Around 8.15pm at Botengo, the first bullet flew over my head. I managed to duck the second one. Suddenly, heavy firing started from the dark. I was scared but I was only thinking about leaving the area at the earliest. They kept firing at the bus. The pilgrims were screaming and crying. Some of them were hit by bullets as well, but I just kept driving at maximum speed. I still remember vividly that I was driving the bus at a speed of 70 to 80 kmph.” 
 
 “Since it was my fourth trip to Amarnath in the last eight years, I knew that if I could travel a few kilometres, I will reach the Army camp. After travelling about 2.5km, we reached the camp,” Salim said, adding that the Army authorities immediately swung into action and shifted the injured to local hospitals and to Srinagar. 
 
 Born in Jalgaon, Salim’s family shifted to Gujarat two decades ago. He has two sons and a daughter. He has been working as driver with a private tourist company since 2000. When asked if he would go back to Amarnath in future, Salim said, “Why would I be scared now? It’s my job. If I don’t do this (driving) what else would I do? And how would I look after my family?” he asked.
 
 Businessman Krishnakumar Goyal and Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganapati Trust presented cash awards of Rs 1.11 lakh and Rs 31,000 to Salim at the function. Baba Adhav, veteran leader of the unorganised workers, and Sarhad president Sanjay Nahar were present at the event.
 
 
