RAJKOT: Back in the December of 2015, the   gave a warm welcome to two new teams with the rider that they would exit the tournament post 2017. Rising Pune Supergiant and   thus entered the IPL fold.

 While the former is working overtime to extend its stay in the league from 2018 onwards - by buying a stake in another existing franchise - the Lions could see the curtains coming down on their stint post this edition. It is on this very note that Gujarat Lions will take field this IPL, knowing 2017 season will be a make a break year for the franchise's short-term investment.
 
 Team owner Keshav Bansal stood behind the boundary at the stadium here as his team went about evening practice on Thursday. His morale, knowing what's at stake here, wouldn't have been all that low considering how some other teams in the IPL have been gravely hit by injuries to their cricketers this season vis-à-vis his own.
 
 Gujarat could more or less field their full strength squad from their third match in the tournament, thereafter   - the Trinidadian import - possibly being their only player to continue warming the bench. Hopes remained high as Bansal left the venue and the team continued to sweat it out in the middle.
 
 Right next to them were the Kolkata Knight Riders, two-time champions in IPL, going through their own drill ahead of what will also be their first match this season.
 
 For either side, the thought of facing the other would - by no degree - be a comforting one. The Knight Riders have plucked matches out of thin air in the past editions of the tournament, have gelled together as one of the most well-oiled units and delivered results that can only be matched by the likes of Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians. A team that clearly can't be taken easy.
 
 The Lions have had no such long-stint privileges in IPL. But where they've lacked in spell this last year-and-a-half, they made up in putting together one of the most lethal top-heavy combinations in the tournament.
 
 In what could certainly be a clash of equals where cricket is concerned, the weight of expectation would probably tilt a bit more towards the Lions, who've got this one opportunity to deliver.
 
 At home, they've got a few things going for them.   - though he'll miss the first two matches - has been on a roll with the Indian national team with 71 wickets in 13 Tests; Dinesh Karthik - the wicket-keeper-batsman - took Tamil Nadu to emphatic heights this domestic season, knocking 850 runs in 12 innings of the Vijay Hazare and Deodhar Trophy matches; Dhawal Kulkarni, Tamil Nadu's nemesis in the Deodhar final, has been in great form too.
 
 With the likes of  , Dwayne Smith and the old warhorse   in their ranks, the Suresh Raina-led team is no underdog this season. 
 
