It was a night to remember the good ol’ days of bunking, first loves and first heartbreaks when former   (KMC) students got together for an alumni meet on Saturday. The meet was organized at KMC with the help of actor  , who is also the chairman of the Alumni Committee for the renovation of  . Earlier this year, the actor had also organized a fund-raising event and an alumni meet in Mumbai, which was attended by former members of the college’s theatre group, Players, including Amitabh Bachchan. At this Delhi event, actors like   and Indresh Malik, and lyricist Raj Shekhar, among others, were in attendance. The college also urged their alumni to help in raising funds for the college auditorium, which has been in a dilapidated state for more than 10 years.

 
  
  Strong College bonds: Sushant Singh with Tinkuji, who now sells candy at KMC and has been in the college for the last three decades. Sushant told us that when he was a student here, Tinkuji used to secretly sell him cigarettes (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Before the event started, Satish, Sushant and Indresh came to the main gate to pose for us, and Satish said, "Kuch funny karte hain, ya toh kuch ek dum different." Indresh joked, "Sir, kaan pakad lete hain." The three promptly gave us a ‘sorry’ pose, and with good reason, it was to emerge later.
 
 
  
  Major General Dilawar Singh, a KMC alumnus (L) and lyricist Raj Shekhar recited poetry during the meet (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Later, when he went on stage, Satish said, "I want to apologise to my college teachers. College mein thay, kabhi kuch galat kiya ho, toh uske liye bas sorry kehna hai." Sushant, however wanted to apologise to one teacher in particular. He said, “I want to apologise to Keval Arora (professor and staff advisor of Players). I took admission in English (Hons) in college, and at that time, my English wasn’t great. Once, he asked us to read the play Antigone before attending his class. In the class, when he asked everyone if we had read the play, I thought of being honest, and said, ‘I haven’t read it.’ When he asked why, I wanted to say that I had no reason to offer, nahin padha, galti ho gayi. But instead, it came out all wrong. So I want to apologise to him today."
 
 
 
  
  Satish Kaushik with Dinesh Khattar, acting principal of Kirori Mal College (BCCL)
 
 
 While others wanted to say sorry to the teachers, Indresh was sorry about not being able to send his kids to the same college. “Humesha bura lagega ki unhe yahan nahin padha paya. We live in Mumbai, par yahan padhne ki baat hi kuch aur hai,” he told us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Amrit Abhijat (L), joint secretary and mission director, Housing for All, Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation and Keval Arora, staff advisor of Players, the theatre society of KMC (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 
 The evening was full of nostalgia, and we kept overhearing phrases like "Arrey, tu bhi aaya hai?" and "Kya din thay woh yaar". Addressing the audience, Sushant said, “Maine kabhi Players mein koi khaas role nahin kiya. Uss samay, main poora charsi lagta tha, toh mujhe woh role hi diya gaya tha play mein. LSR (Lady Shri Ram College for Women) se bahut purani dosti rahi hai humari, jab bhi unke college mein competition ke liye jate thay, toh play ka naam kuch aisa rakhte thay jo unke college ke naam par ho. When I was a student here, we did a play called Latently Socially Relevant, kyunki woh humesha khud ko hi prize dete thay. Toh humne socha, ab toh shayad apne aap ko na dein.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Indresh, who also did an impromptu impersonation of a ‘typical Delhi aunty’, said, "Before coming to college, I had never seen a woman smoking a cigarette and that was one thing that I can’t forget my entire life. Also, during my initial days here, meri bahut ragging huyi thi. Main patla sa ladka tha, jiski moochhein bhi nahin aati thi. Toh seniors mujhe chikna bulate thay. When I was new, seniors ne mujhe meri ragging karne ke liye bulaya. They said, ‘Apni shirt utaar.’ Aur main bahut jaldi ro deta hoon, so I started crying. By that time, I had been selected for Players, so the moment I started crying, one of my seniors from Players said, ‘Yeh Players ka hai, iski ragging koi nahi karega.’"
 
 Satish gave all the credit of his success to the college, and said, "I was just a normal guy from Karol Bagh who wanted to study in Campus. I was getting admission in Chemistry (Hons) in Jamia Millia Islamia, but I wanted to study in this campus, so I took BSc (Pass) in KMC, instead of Chemistry (Hons) at Jamia. Iss college ne sab diya hai, main aaj Bollywood mein jo bhi hoon, jo bhi acting kar pata hoon, jo achhi timing hai comedy ki ya dialogues ki, woh sab KMC aur Players se seekha hai."
 
 
