NAGPUR: Even as there has been an increase in 191   (PG) seats at 14   (GMCs) across Maharashtra, most of these colleges have not got either any seats in certain subjects or have got less than what they applied for.

 This has left colleges in the lurch as they are missing a golden opportunity of increase in pan India PG seats, as per the notification of Medical Council of India (MCI) dated March 28.
 
 In Vidarbha, three colleges have got an increase of 60 seats only, whereas the expectation was almost three times. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Nagpur, which has got the highest number of seats (34) in the state, has not got a single seat sanctioned in five subjects (see box).
 
 Similarly, the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College has not got any seats in paediatrics, anaesthesia and surgery. Though the   has got seats in both subjects it had applied for, it got two seats less than applied.
 
 Since Maharashtra colleges had got an increase of 91 seats in another notification dated February 28, 2017, it is being assumed that some departments may not get another round of seats. This means that Maharashtra has got 281 seats so far this year. But experts claim that these colleges were still eligible for additional increase as per the revised norms of MCI.
 
 Yavatmal College in Vidarbha had got an increase of 22 seats in February and hence, apparently has not got any seats now.
 
 The five department heads at the GMCH were the most worried on Wednesday after seeing no seats in their department. Anaesthesia head Dr N Tirpude said he was surprised not to see a single seat sanctioned. “We had asked for an increase from 11 to 24 seats. How can the surgery department work without anaesthesia?” he said.
 
 Orthopaedics head Dr Sajal Mitra, ENT head  , ophthalmology head Dr   and chest medicine head Dr S Ghorpade said that they had proposed an increase of more seats. “We are really surprised why we didn’t get even one,” they said.
 
 GMCH dean Dr A Niswade said that there was still time for representation and the college would send a fresh application. “We would surrender all the diploma courses to get degree courses,” he said. Dr P G Dixit, the acting IGGMC dean, too said he would plead the case with MCI.
 
 
