MUMBAI: A young woman who nabbed her molester after being groped at   station recently , was horrified when he called up his relatives in front of the cops to pressurise her to drop the case. Mayur  , the accused, was booked on charges of sexual harassment.The woman's family said an eyewitness had come to the police station to confirm what transpired, but cops let him go without recording his statement.

 The 26-year-old woman has done her post-graduation overseas and is involved in community service. On September 22, she was returning from work.She got off a Churchgate-bound local at Dadar station around 9.30pm. As she stepped off the second-class compartment, she felt someone pinch her bottom. The man behind her also tried to grab her. She turned around and hit the molester on his shoulder. Concerned he would be caught by the crowd on the station, he told her to come aside and talk. “He was arrogant and unapologetic,“ the woman's mother told  .“He asked my daughter what could she do. She said she would report him to the cops, but he replied she was free to do what she wanted. My daughter had reached the foot overbridge by then and spotted a cop on duty. She immediately called him and reported the molester,“ the woman's mother said.
 
 The woman and Ghankutkar, 37, were told the police station concerned is at   and both would have to travel with the cops by train.“My daughter called me and said she would manage things as I'm old and ailing. But I was not comfortable sitting at home and decided to head to Mumbai Central. When I called my daughter a little later, she was sobbing. She said Ghankutkar had dialled some of his friends who were labelling her a liar and pressurising her to drop the charges,“ her mother said.
 
 A male commuter who witnessed the groping came along to Mumbai Central railway police station. But after a long wait, he decided to leave. Police neither recorded his statement nor noted his number. “When I reached the police station, my daughter had been taken to the computer room at the terminus to draft an FIR. From there, we were taken to   where we stayed till 3.30am as doctors arrived late and test after test was conducted. All this time, Ghankutkar's relatives hounded me. They asked us to not pursue the matter as he was married, with kids, and without a permanent job. We had difficulty warding them off,“ her mother said. “My daughter was more traumatised by what happened after she took the molester to the cops,“ she said. Police said Ghankutkar was arrested and released on bail.
 
