 with rip-roaring stunts and tasks are the in thing on Malayalam TV these days. With shows such as Dare the Fear, hosted by Govind Padmasoorya on Asianet, and Star War on Surya TV, channels have now taken a U-turn from the usual platter of melodramatic serials, dance and music programmes. Getting to see prominent faces try their hand at various thrilling contests is the highlight of these shows, together with the scenic backdrops. While Dare The Fear, with a bunch of women contestants, will go on air from October 6, Star War, that has TV celebrities braving the tasks, has been shot in locations in Kerala.

 We talk to the makers and contestants of these shows to get a lowdown.
 
  
 
 
 
 Though inspired from its English and Hindi counterparts, Star War is not a complete copy of those shows, says Shamnad Puthussery, Programme Head of Surya TV, Kerala. What’s different is the effective use of the picturesque locations of Kerala, he says. “While other shows set out to countries such as Thailand, we found that locations in Kerala are as good for the contestants to perform their stunts.”
 
 When compared to the artificial settings in the other shows, natural scenery is the backdrop in the  , he says. “We have shot in Munnar, Wayanad, Malampuzha and Dhoni Hills in Palakkad so far. In our upcoming episodes, we will take the audience through more beautiful places in Kerala, making the best use of mountains, valleys and waterfalls.” 
 
  
 
 
 
 While watching a serial is a passive experience, seeing the participants complete each task with vigour and exert all their efforts engages the audience better, says MR Rajan, Vice President of Asianet. “Making both the contestants and the audience confront situations they are not used to is the most interesting part of the programme. The intention is to make the participants overcome their innate fears through the tasks involving elements such as water, height, insects and many more.”
 
 The USP of their show, he says, is that it will solely have women as participants. “The conventional Malayali woman is always seen as fragile, and through the programme, we wanted to drive home the point that they can be as brave as men, and perform extraordinarily when put through difficult situations as this.
 
  
 
 
 
 Vivek Gopan, who is better known as the nonchalant Sooraj from the serial Parasparam, is one of the participants of Star War, and says that this is the first time he has ventured into something like this. “In serials, you only get to perform within a particular framework. Unless one acts in an action movie, actors like me would never get to perform such stunts.”
 
 He points out how performing each task has instilled a sense of achievement and confidence in him. “It has definitely given a boost to my morale, and helped me get a mental makeover. For my first performance in the show, we were asked to cross a rope tied parallel to the Malampuzha dam. I was a bit nervous, and almost called it quits, as I have a fear of heights, but I overcame my fears in the end."
 
 Given that there are five teams, with two members each, one participant’s poor performance can also leave you disqualified, points out Vivek. 
 
 Actress Rosin Jolly, who will be trying to put her best foot forward, literally, in Dare The Fear, reveals that she was someone whose list of phobias included animals, insects and many others. “But I’m doing things I never imagined I would do earlier. A spider is no big deal now, while it used to send shivers down my spine before.”
 
 And it’s the encouragement from fellow contestants which makes her push herself, she says. “I have become a lot bolder today, and feel closes to nature. Every day, one needs to face a different type of fear, and the excitement of not knowing what you will be asked to do the next day makes it an altogether different experience. It’s scary and exciting at the same time,” Rosin adds.
 
