GURUGRAM: On the directive of a city court, the investigating officer and the prime witness in an alleged case of  , have been   for fabricating evidence and falsely implicating the accused.

 Hearing the State vs Bihari Lal case, sessions judge Kumud Guglani observed the evidence presented and the witnesses’ testimony were unsatisfactory. The court, in its directive last month, also ordered that a case be registered against investigating officer SI Manoj Kumar and witness Harpal, president of a Gau Raksha Dal or cow protection group.
 
 Accordingly, an FIR was registered under sections 182 (giving false information), 194 (fabricating evidence), 196 (using evidence known to be false), 211 (making false charges), 283 (obstructing public way), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the IPC against Kumar and Harpal at Sohna police station on Saturday.
 
 Bihari Lal, a resident of Rampur village in Bareli (UP), was arrested on September 19, 2015, for allegedly transporting cows for slaughter and attempting to murder Harpal. In his complaint, Harpal had stated he, along Anup and Ashok — all residents of Lakhuwas village — had put up a barricade on the road to stop Bihari’s pick-up van, which was allegedly carrying cows from Palwal to Mewat for slaughtering. They signalled Bihari to stop, but he allegedly accelerated and tried to run down Harpal and others. 
 
 However, some villagers managed to intercept the vehicle and catch the driver near Baba Mandir in the village. 
 
 The villagers reportedly rescued a cow and two calves from the van and handed them over to  , manager of People for Animals’ hospital in Sardana. The driver was handed over to cops. Bihari is currently out on bail.
 
 The court observed the prosecution’s story failed to inspire confidence, and slammed SI Kumar for massive discrepancies in the investigation. 
 
 “This court is at a loss to understand how it is a case which attracts grievous charges pertaining to very serious offences,” Guglani observed. He further said the only irresistible conclusion that could be drawn was that the investigating officer had exceeded his brief and abused the authority vested in him by concocting a false and fictitious story to frame the accused.
 
 The court had also lambasted Gau Raksha Dal members for taking law in their hands by staging pickets and disrupting free flow of traffic. The members could have passed the information to police and let law take its own course. The judge also found Harpal to be a hostile witness.
 
 The court went added Dal members were the real offenders and slammed cops for colluding with the “radicals”.
 
