The Christian tradition of going to Church on Sundays has been in practice for ages. 

 Just that in the past, people took a leisurely stroll to their neighbourhood chapel and today, most believers prefer turning up in their swanky private vehicles, regardless of the distance. The   recently urged its believers to observe a ‘vehicle fast’ to come for the Holy mass of today and avoid their two or four wheelers in connection with the  , observed last night. And the reactions it triggered are quite interesting.
 
 
 It’s the youngsters and womenfolk who have wholeheartedly embraced the instruction, says the church. Fr P A Philip, a church official, says, “It’s more of an appeal than an order and it’s great that the youth in various churches across the State have welcomed it. They have even added their own little programmes to the initiative.” A group of youngsters from St George Church, Kunnam, near Mavelikkara, has planned to cycle to the church on Sunday morning. Their priests, who would conduct the mass of the day, will also be arriving on bicycles.
 
 Sanu Mathew, youth wing member of St Mary’s Orthodox Church, Kottayam, says, “All youngsters of our church are planning to form groups and walk to the church on Sunday, ditching their vehicles. Those coming from distant locations would use public transport instead of private vehicles. Moreover, we plan to clean up the Meenachil River, on the banks of which our church is situated.”
 
 A few other churches will distribute earthern kujas, which keep water cool and tasty for people to drink from after the walk. “As the overall aim of the initiative is to help Mother Nature get rid of pollution, the plans also extend beyond the walk to church. By using kujas, we can reduce the usage of refrigerator and thus, save electricity. Adding to that is the reduced emission of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs),” says Fr Philip.
 Even families are doing their bit to make this move a fun initiative. Mary Mathew, former Vice Principal of Baselius College, Kottayam, says, “We, families in the neighbourhood will walk together for the 8 am mass, like in the past. The aim is to make the youngsters feel that this is fun and healthy, and that they should continue doing it.”
 
 
 
 It’s simple, but would need some planning, if you want to be on a vehicle fast during lent! P C Alias, a church official says, “For distances that usually take about five to twenty minutes on a vehicle, you can decide to walk or cycle, while on a vehicle lent.”
 It’s not easy as it sounds and it can be quite tempting to break it, with excuses like ‘I was too busy.’ “This requires careful planning from your side. You also need to improve your health a bit or you would be too tired within a few days,” Alias says.
 
 
 
 “I remember a time when we enjoyed the early morning sunshine and fresh air, as we took a walk to the church for mass,” says Annie John, a teacher from Kochi. She recounts, “In those days, there were fewer vehicles and we breathed fresh air. The brisk walk and non-polluted air kept us energised throughout the day.”
 
 According to Leena Jose, a government employee, it wasn’t just all about the walk either. She says, “That was also the time we met our extended family and friends, chit-chatted with them face-to-face unlike the virtual connections now. People knew each other well and there was a particular warmth in the relationships. I still remember, how we used to share some local gossip and stop by the local stalls for Sunday shopping, on our way back from the church.”
 
 Just like how we stopped walking to the nearby grocery store or market, we conveniently skipped walking to the church making our lives sedentary, says Annie. “The walks to the church were also a time when many women, especially homemakers, got their share of daily exercise. That’s why despite the typical non-vegetarian heavy diet of the community, they stayed hale and healthy unlike today.”
 
 Anna George, a doctor, supports the Church’s initiative. “The reason most of our grandparents are healthy is because walking had the effect of medication on them. It also reduced anxieties and improved the overall quality of life,” she says.
 
 
 
 If the distance can usually be covered by five minutes in a car, you can walk. If it takes more than 5 and close to 20 minutes by car, you can cycle.
 
 Plan the travel and organise your day in advance. Last minute excuses such as ‘I will be late for work’ or ‘I need to save time’ are usually the impediments that get people to drop their vehicle fast halfway
 
 When walking or cycling, try doing it in groups as it encourages conversations while reducing stress, and also helps you keep fit. The routine chats would also make the distance seem less.
 
 Download a fitness app and you can track the distance covered by foot or cycling. Have a competition with your friends to make the 
 fast fun. 
 
 
