Chandigarh: Doctors observed their own version of ‘Satyagrah’ on the eve of   here on Sunday by a observing a fast from “dawn to dusk” to press the Centre and state governments to stop prosecution in cases of medical negligence, introduce a stringent law to prevent violence against medical professionals, and accept a few more of their demands.

 On a call given by the   (IMA), the Chandigarh president of the doctors’ body, Dr  , said all doctors in the city observed. Doctors said they had no plans of obstructing treatment of patients, but they wanted the government to act on their demands.
 
 As part of the  , leaders of IMA-Chandigarh gathered at the IMA Complex here and wrote a letter to the PM to seek his intervention and solve their problems. In a press release issued on Sunday, Aggarwal said the government had made things so difficult for medical professionals in Chandigarh that nursing homes in the city had fallen from 28 in 1999 to only seven at present.
 
 A past national vice-president of the IMA, Dr R S Bedi, said incidences of violence against doctors were increasing at ab alarming rate. “The Prevention of Violence against Medical Personnel and Establishment Act, 2009, has been implemented in almost 19 states, but few convictions have occurred in the past seven years,” he said.
 
 He demanded a more stringent central Act with provision in the IPC to deter such “mindless violence”. “Criminal Prosecution and arrest of doctors under sections 304 and 304A on patients’ complains of medical negligence has become order of the day,” he said, adding that more than 70 doctors had been prosecuted in Punjab alone in past 4 years. “Police and other authorities should be sensitized about this.”
 
 Box:
 
 WHAT DOCS WANT
 
 Stop criminal prosecution of medical negligence and clerical errors
 
 Stringent central Act against violence on doctors
 
 Professional autonomy in treatment and prescriptions
 
 No unscientific mixing of systems of medicine
 
 Implement inter-ministerial committee recommendations in six weeks
 
 Single-window registration of doctors and medical establishments
 
 No to   (NMC): Amend IMC Act to maintain professional autonomy
 
 Uniform final MBBS exam instead of ‘NEXT’; uniform service conditions for service doctors & faculty
 
 Same work, same pay, pay parity — no to adhocism
 
 
