CHENNAI: While Muslim women, activists and leaders in   welcome the new guidelines issued by the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) for married couples on   and ways to settle marital disputes, many feel it is imperative to ensure the message reaches women across the state. 

 Triple talaq is a   ( ) practice which allows men to   by uttering the   to their wives three   It can be communicated orally or in written format, and more recently, through text messages and social media.
 
 A five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court is examining the case against triple talaq. On Monday, the AIMPLB told the Supreme Court that it has issued guidelines for the husband and wife at the time of dispute - these included "social boycott" of Muslims who resort to triple talaq, appointment of an arbitrator to settle marital disputes and an advisory issued to the qazi (priest) that they should advice grooms against resorting to triple talaq to end the marriage.
 
 In its affidavit, AIMPLB said it has decided to issue a public advisory through its website, publications and social media platforms asking qazis to advise the bridegroom against pronouncing triple talaq in case of a marital dispute.
 
 Lawyer, activist and former legislator Bader Sayeed, who moved the Supreme Court last year challenging triple talaq, says the AIMPLB's guidelines are an attempt to "join the bandwagon". However, she added, it is still a "climbdown" from their earlier stand on the issue.
 
 True reform, she added, is to "ban the triple talaq". "The court will have to frame guidelines. The court must validate every divorce, and the final decree has to come from court," she said. She added women should be made aware of the reforms, through NGOs and women's groups.
 
 Writer-activist Salma says she welcomes the fact that the Board has started thinking about it and is taking steps to implement reforms, but added that these guidelines have to find acceptance within the community. They also have to think about what the next steps are, she said.
 
 "We have to think about how to ensure the message reaches Muslim women across the country. NGOs, women's groups should take it forward to women in cities and villages," she said. She added that there should be strict rules against misuse.
 
 Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA K A M Muhammed Abubacker said, "Shariat law sets forth several guidelines on these issues, but there are practical difficulties in following them". He said the new guidelines should be communicated through jamaat (congregation) committees in various parts of state.
 
