DEHRADUN: Investigations conducted by   (I-T) officials into the transactions of Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd (UPRNN) general manager S A Sharma have indicated that a syndicate — including Sharma, a  , and a   — was involved in executing a number of   in Uttarakhand for the past few years.
 
  I-T officials told TOI that the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) was also closely monitoring the case.
  
  “The scrutiny of documents has revealed that the syndicate had obtained tenders worth several crores pertaining to at least half a dozen important civil projects in the state,” said a source, adding that the I-T department is “studying all the documents to arrive at an estimate on how big the entire scam was.”
  
  Divulging modus operandi of the syndicate, an I-T official said first the bureaucrat helped the UPRNN to get tenders, and then ensured that contractors —   and his brother Vineet — get those works.
  
  “Documents revealed that projects were given to one unit of UPRNN, but it was handled by Dehradun unit headed by S A Sharma so that the same contractor could work on the contracts. There is a clear nexus right from the awarding tenders to contractors,” said the official.
  
  Investigations brought to fore, said the I-T official, that Sharma was posted in Uttarakhand in 2004 and handled many projects in US Nagar, Sidkul, Sitarganj, Dehradun University and over 40 polytechnics since then. “Our teams are still probing work orders for each project and looking into the involvement of the general manager and Sharma with others associates, including Sharma’s son and the contractor’s brother,” he added.
  
  Given the sensitivity of the case — involvement of a high-profile contractor Amit Sharma and his links with bureaucrats in Uttarakhand — the case has been monitored at the highest level. “The case is being monitored at the PMO level, because those named in the case have links with influential people (bureaucrats) posted in Uttarakhand,” said a senior I-T official on condition of anonymity.
  
  On April18, I-T sleuths had raided six premises of S A Sharma and contractor Amit Sharma. The general manager has been placed under suspension and facing a departmental probe.
  
  Several teams of I-T officials are scanning voluminous documents seized during raids before sending notice to UPRNN general manager, his son Shashank Rai, and Amit Sharma and his brother Vineet to appear for recording of their statement.
