CHENNAI: The   on   products in the state did not take them off the shelves but only made them more expensive, says a recent survey. 

 Parts of the   Tobacco Survey (TNTS) 2015-16 released by the Adyar Cancer Institute show that more than 90% of smokeless tobacco users in the state have no difficulty in procuring banned gutka products, although they pay double the price to buy it. The survey interviewed 1.11 lakh people from 32,945 households.
 
 Worse, one out of every four tobacco users in the state are initiated to it before the age of 18 and there is no difference in prevalence of tobacco use between urban and rural areas. Adyar Cancer Insitute chairman V Shanta said there should a law preventing appointment of tobacco users as teachers in educational institutions. “But it needs political will,” she said.
 
 An estimated 28.64 lakh people aged 15 years and above in Tamil Nadu use tobacco in some form. Although the tobacco prevalence rate in Tamil Nadu has come down from 16% in 2009-10 to 5.2% in 2015-16, tobacco-related cancers continue to remain high.
 
 These cancers were causing 10 lakh deaths in India every year and a 2011 estimate showed that it was an economic burden of Rs 1 lakh crore every year. “This is 1.16% of the GDP and one-third of these deaths are preventable,” Shanta said. Thirty-two out of every 1 lakh people in India are estimated to suffer from tobacco-related cancers, with 4.02 lakh new cases emerging every year.
 
 Justice N Kirubakaran, sitting judge of the Madras high court, said enforcement agencies swung into action only when the judiciary made some noise, but this tapered down after some time. “Cancer is inside the system which prohibits the government from enforcing laws strongly,” he said. The legal age for smoking should be increased to at least 21, he said. 
 
 Technical advisor to the central government   said that the tobacco lobby had a strong influence on lawmakers in the country, which needed to be questioned. “A parliamentary committee recently asked if Indian tobacco causes cancer,” he said, to exemplify the influence.
 
