He is an engineer and an officer.When  , under the new   government, faced the daunting task of mustering Rs 36,000 crore to meet the promise of loan waiver for farmers additional chief secretary, finance, Anup Chandra Pandey-engineering graduate and 1984 batch IAS officer, played the role of an economist, finding ways to meet the target. And, this was achieved without any loan from the market or banks.

 When Maharashtra is still struggling to garner resources, Pandey, who is also the state finance commissioner, showed the way to mop up resources through austerity drives and checking wasteful expenditure. In the run up to the Assembly election earlier this year, BJP had announced loan redemption for small and marginal farmers who had availed crop loan up to March 31, 2016. Chief minister   had announced the waiver almost as soon as he formed the government in the state, wasting no time in implemen ting the party's poll promise to distressed farmers.
 
 The state government had worked out with the banks that it would have to address nearly 86 lakh farmers and mop up nearly Rs 36,000 crore to settle the issue.It was a concern for the chief minister who had to redeem the debt of farmers in his first budget and the Centre had declined to share the state's burden, saying categorically that states would have to mobilise funds on their own to meet the loan waiver targets. Sources said Pandey had pro mised the chief minister that he would manage the situation. Pandey went through the expenditures of all departments and PSUs and analysed their performance before drawing up a multi-pronged strategy to collect Rs 36,000 crore. Pandey told PSUs that the tradition of borrowing from the state government would have to come to an endand that they would have to manage on their own.
 
 Second, Pandey asked all government establishment to launch an austerity drive that included cutting down on expenditure on cars and interior decorations of offices and closing down establishments that were no more of any use and putting curbs on administrative expenses.
 
 Pandey also mopped up some funds from state and central taxes which registered an increase of about 10%. All these led to enrichment of the state's treasury.
 
