NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s North Campus witnessed a string of violent clashes on Wednesday between two groups after Ramjas College students, supported by members of left outfits, called for a protest march against   Students’ Union (Dusu) and   (ABVP) for allegedly disrupting a seminar titled “Cultures of Protest”. JNU student   had been invited to speak at the seminar.

 However, the march never took place because of the clashes that erupted between the two opposing groups on Wednesday. At least 30 people, including a professor and 10 policemen, were injured. Eighty students were detained briefly. An FIR was registered against unknown persons on the basis of complaint from both sides.
 
 Journalists covering Wednesday’s clashes at Ramjas College were slapped, punched and kicked by about a dozen policemen, all without nameplates, who also threatened them and told them to go away.
 
 TOI correspondent Sompreet Bhattacharya and photographer Anindya Chattopadhyay, Times Now reporter Priyank and cameraman Mazhar Khan, Hindustan Times reporter  , a reporter and photographer from the news portal Quint and several other journalists were beaten up by these policemen who also snatched their phones and cameras and deleted photos and videos. A TOI intern shooting a video was also thrashed.
 
 The area comes under S B K Singh, special commissioner (law and order), North Zone, who was not on the spot when the incident — an alarming rerun of the assault of over a dozen journalists by the police in Februrary 2016 — took place.
 
 The drama started around 1pm when students gathered in and around the college in large numbers. Anticipating an ugly situation, the police didn’t allow the Ramjas students — who had assembled near the college canteen — to leave the campus and join members of the All India Students’ Association (AISA) who were waiting outside to join the march.
 
 Several Ramjas students, who were on the campus and supposed to take out the march from there, were stopped by police. They claimed they were beaten up by ABVP members. The ABVP members have denied the allegations.
 
 Alleging that ABVP members had entered the campus to threaten the Ramjas students, AISA member Kawalpreet Kaur said that “female students were thrashed by men from the outfit who beat up a number of students, including one from Delhi School of Economics”.
 
