MUMBAI: Cracking the whip on  , school education minister   on Friday said all   must have   from June 2018.

 “Students who score 96% in SSC take admission in such integrated programmes. The junior colleges, having tie-ups with coaching classes, charge lakhs of rupess in fees. The colleges mark 80% attendance for students and allow them admission in class XII. However, henceforth commercialization of education will be stopped,” Tawde said in the assembly referring to the system popular among students of science stream.
 
 Junior colleges and coaching centres sometimes offer ‘tie-up programmes’ wherein students do not have to attend classes in the college or the coaching centre’s faculty members provide coaching on college campus. Describing how the system works, a popular coaching centre, on its website, said, “The main advantage is that a student’s time is saved as s/he does not have to travel between classes and schools/colleges. The student will be taught physics, mathematics and chemistry in the college or on school premises by our faculty, three to four days a week.”
 
 The minister said that it would be mandatory for students to attend classes in the junior colleges, which would be recorded using a biometric attendance system. “Attendance in junior colleges will be compulsory and if the attendance is low, the student will not be able allowed to appear for HSC exams,” said Tawde. He has said that the state will declare a list of junior colleges offering the integrated programmes by March 2018.
 
 Narendra Bhambwani, former vice-president of Maharashtra Class Owners' Association, said, “While the crackdown is welcome, biometric attendance is not a solution. The integrated programmes either run out of the same junior college building or a neighbouring one. In both cases, it will easy for students to record their attendance and take classes by the tutorials. It will also be a financial burden for smaller junior colleges.”
 
 Parents, however, are unhappy with the crackdown as it is a very convenient arrangement for students. “State board students need to study the CBSE syllabus for competitive exams and the junior colleges are not good enough to prepare them. If there is no choice of sending children to integrated programmes, it will be very tiring for them – almost impossible to prepare for NEET and JEE in two years,” said Jasmine Gogri, mother a medical aspirant. 
 
