For a gadget-obsessed generation, online games are an easy fix for entertainment. And addiction is often part of the deal, like the deadly   has proved. The latest game to have captured the fancy of smartphone users is Ludo Star. From indulging in the virtual version of the popular 90s board game during monotonous lectures, boring office presentations, travelling and even washroom breaks, Gen-Now is hooked to the app. Downloaded over a million times,   allows one to choose a private table — to play with people of their choice — and even players in a different parts of the world.

 
 For   student Aayushi Surana, Ludo Star is a great platform to connect with people in other countries with shared interests. “I have been playing for the past four months, and every day, I am up against new players from different countries. With some, I have had arguments but with most others, I got the opportunity to forge meaningful friendships.”
 Shilpa, a   student, says playing with Pakistani users is most fun. “The text messages exchanged are more fun than the game itself. From us telling: ‘Izzat ki baat hai’ and ‘Inse nahin haarenge’ to them saying: ‘Yeh cricket nahin, ludo hai… Isme toh hum hi jeetenge...’, it is always fun when an Indian is pitted against a Pakistani,” she chuckles.
 Apart from making new connections, Ludo Star is helping many revive old bonds through nostalgia. “I am reliving my childhood, thanks to Ludo Star. Every day, my sister, who moved out of home post 
 marriage, and I indulge in a game of two. It feels like she’s right around here,” Pratik, a 23-year-old graduate, says.
 
 
 Falling for someone on the other side of your computer screen is nothing new, but have you heard of people using an online game to hook up? Describing Ludo Star as the new Tinder, Harsha Betala, a student of Symbiosis, says, “My love story started with my Ludo Star opponent, and now we connect regularly over social networking sites. Strange, but I found my soul mate in my game mate.”
 On the other hand, it has also given reason to youngsters to fight with their boyfriends and girlfriends in case they lose to them. “My girlfriend did not talk to me for three days because I killed her pakki gotti. Now I try my best to avoid playing with her,” says Salem, a 20-year-old student of  . 
 
 
 Notwithstanding its appeal, the game also has a flip side to it. Along with privacy issues, several users have had their fair share of stalkers and received abusive/hate messages from fellow players. Meghana Reddy of Sreenidhi International School says, “I was playing with an unknown person when I received a volley of abusive messages from him. Even after blocking him, he sent messages to my Facebook account, forcing me to deactivate my account.”
 
 
 The Ludo Star craze is not restricted to youngsters alone; kids and adults are also having a go at it. Ten-year-old Mahek Daga says, “Immediately after coming home from school, I get on to the game so that I can collect maximum coins and defeat my brother.” Sanjay Sancheti, a 40-year-old businessman shares, “Once I was so engrossed in Ludo Star that I forgot to attend to a customer at my shop. He left empty handed.”
 
 
 ‘Mere paas ghar hai, bangla hai… tumhare paas kya hai?’ For those who have watched Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Deewar, the obvious answer to that famous filmi question would be, ‘Mere paas maa hai’. But addicts of the new online craze are saying, ‘Mere paas Ludo Star hai’! In a world where almost every new trend spawns a legion of memes, the game has also grabbed the attention of meme makers. Players are tagging each other in these memes and having a good laugh over them too.
 
 
 
 
 
 
