BHUBANESWAR: With the festival of Holi a couple of days away, markets are flooded with a wide variety of colours. This year herbal or organic is the buzzword, owing to an increased customer awareness about the harmful effects of chemical or synthetic colours.

 "The demand for natural and herbal colours is pretty high. People are asking for natural colours even though the prices are almost double than synthetic colours," said  , a shop owner in Unit-I market. "This year wet herbal colours are also available in the market and are much in demand." The cost of powdered colour or gulal is Rs 10 to Rs 15 per 100 grams while herbal gulal is selling for Rs 25 to Rs 35 per 100g. 
 
 "I am very particular about the quality of colours and ensure that the organic colours we are buying from the market are pure. I check the ingredients mentioned on the packets and go for branded products only. I also advised everybody in our residential society to play with herbal colours," said  , an entrepreneur. 
 
 This year, some new colours have come to the markets along with the usual red, green, yellow, pink, green and blue. The new colours are turmeric yellow, aqua blue, sandalwood, creamy white, ocean green, baby pink and leafy green.
 
 "I have stocked up only organic and herbal colours in my shop and my customers know it. The natural colours available with me are made up of plants, fruits, vegetables and flowers like pomegranate, beet root, heena and neem leaves, carrot, tomato, palash flowers, sandalwood and so on," said  , another shopkeeper in Unit-I market. 
 
 Dr M Srichandan, a senior dermatologist at  , asked revellers to take special care of their eyes and skin during Holi. "My suggestion would be to play safe. Avoid chemical colours and protect your eyes and skin. Mild reaction and rashes may subside but if it causes allergy or burning and itching sensation, then immediately consult a doctor.  't go for self medication," he advised. Besides colours, there is a huge variety of water guns and other accessories available in the market, the prices of which ranges from Rs 20 to more than Rs 1000. 
 
