PATNA: Third-year student Vishal Kumar won the first prize in Assemblare, an electrical engineering event at the three-day technical and cultural fest, ‘Technika 2017’, organised on   (BIT)’s Patna branch campus on Thursday. 

 Final-year student Shrawan Kumar and his group also presented a dance on the second day on Thursday. The audience was in complete awe listening to the melodious songs sung by another final-year student, Satyam Shekhar, and group.
 
 The students also staged a play, ‘Journey of an Ordinary Girl’. In cultural event ‘Exuberance’, the students displayed their phenomenal talent in singing, dancing and dramatics. 
 
 International conference: Over 100 delegates from India and abroad attended the two-day international conference on ‘Business Research and Policy 2017’, organised by   ( ), on the inaugural day on Thursday. 
 
 Prof Sivakumar, a scholar from  , USA, shared several tips on carrying out impactful research that would benefit the consumers of research – corporate entities and the society at large. 
 
 CIMP director Mukunda Das highlighted the institute’s achievements in teaching, research and consultancy. He said the CIMP has started working on establishing an ‘International Centre for Management Research’ in collaboration with researchers from the US and other countries. 
 
 Workshop: The School of Education, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), organised a workshop on ‘Teaching-Learning Strategies and Assessment Techniques’ on Thursday. 
 
 The workshop was inaugurated by CUSB VC O P Rai, who discussed the practical problems of the education system like absenteeism of students, low achievement, unemployment and value deterioration. He also underlined the importance of ancient education system.
 
 School of Education head Rekha Agrawal spoke on ‘Instructional Objectives and Innovative Teaching Techniques’. Faculty member Kaushal Kishore talked about ‘Traditional and Modern Techniques of Assessment’.
 
 New campus: Indirapuram Public School for Girls opened its new five-acre campus on Khagaul Road on Thursday. A ‘Saraswati Sthapana Puja’ was also organised on the occasion. School patron Meena Singh and principal Arti Jha were among those present. “Ours is the first school city with only women as staffers,” the patron said.
 
