PATNA: Mosquitoes have become a menace for the residents of the state capital. In fact, mosquitoes are now used to repellents, coils and creams. Since the   (PMC) is neither fogging the areas properly nor lifting cleaning the garbage dump, which makes the problem more acute.
 
  Shilpa Kumari, a resident of  , said mosquitoes have abundant breeding ground in her area. “Most of the covers of the drain that runs parallel to the railway line are open. Only the main roads are fogged in my area. The fogging machines cannot move in the bylanes as these are too congested for the vehicle to move. The dustbins installed by the municipal corporation are piled up with garbage and are emptied once in a while. This garbage is sure to foster mosquitoes,” she said.
  
  Q A   has to keep all his windows closed due to the mosquitoes which, he says, would otherwise make it impossible for him to sit peacefully even during daytime.
  
  “We try to get rid of any garbage or stagnant water so as to prevent the mosquitoes from breeding. I have appointed a local garbage collector to pick up garbage from my house every day. We cannot complain to our ward councillor as we see him only once every five years during the election. The garbage keeps piling up, providing a good breeding ground for mosquitoes,” he said.
  
  The situation is such that now people have started using chemicals which are more powerful than general mosquito repellent.
  
  A prominent shop selling pesticide on   confirmed that people in Patna are now buying powerful insecticide, which is more powerful to be used in a room. “Malathion is one of the insecticides that people buy. Most of the time, we discourage people from buying these. We only sell it to those who appear knowledgeable enough on how to properly use it,” he said.
  
  According to Pradeep Agarwal, another pesticide seller, people are irritated by mosquitoes all year round. “We get nearly 10 agitated customers per day. The mosquitoes get used to all sorts of repellents after some time. Many of the insecticides that people ask for are too harmful to be used, but they just want to get rid of the mosquitoes,” said Agarwal.
  
  However, Patna municipal commissioner   said the corporation was doing all it is supposed to do to take care of the mosquito menace. The corporation has 10 fogging machines as of now and is planning to procure more. Fogging would be made more frequent, which is sure to provide relief to the residents, he said.
  
  “I would like to say that fogging is not the solution. Our main aim is to stop the mosquito from breeding,” he said, adding that the result will be visible in the coming days.
