KOLKATA:   has decided to put a 20% cap on either a rise or a reduction in house tax once the   ( ) method is introduced. This cap was necessary to safeguard the interest of a section of property owners and the civic body itself. 

  working on UAA had hinted that owners of old houses might get affected after UAA was introduced, as there are chances that their   would shoot up manifold. Some revenue department officials had also feared that property tax collection from some areas would drop significantly under the UAA system. 
 
 “The system of capping has been adopted after a series of meetings between civic officials and property tax experts,” said a revenue department official. “We will now frame a regulation incorporating this cap in the UAA taxation system and send it to the state government for approval.”
 
 Sources in the assessment department said it would be an uphill task for the civic body to implement UAA from April 1. “We have to frame a couple of regulations and get those approved by the state government before we decide on making the UAA scheme public,” said a civic official.
 
 After it is made public, property owners will be given a couple of months to switch over. During these two months, home owners need to fill in particulars about the property and calculate tax based on particulars of the scheme.
 
 This making public of the scheme could get delayed till the civic brass resolves a crisis. “As soon as we announce UAA, we will have to wait for taxpayers’ response. It may so happen that our revenue collection will be hampered to a great extent,” said an assessment department official. Section 182A of the KMC Act assumes significance in the wake of apprehensions that the civic body will lose revenue once UAA is introduced on April 1. Most assessment and finance department officials fear that under the UAA system, the civic body will face a revenue loss for the first financial year, and the first two quarters may prove critical. Since the current method of tax collection will be scrapped once UAA is in place, house owners calculating their own taxes will take at least three months to switch over, they feel. 
 
 Section 182A says that after publication of UAA, a taxpayer should be given 60 days to assesses his/her property, failing which KMC can calculate it. However, assessees will continue to pay tax till the calculation is finalized. But the UAA system states that once it is introduced, KMC can’t demand anything under any other system. “If we can’t raise demands, how can we ask the property owners to pay tax? If we raise demand under the old system, it would be illegal,” said an assessment department official. “We needed an amendment of Section 182A, which would have enabled us to raise demands under the old system till UAA was accepted by all,” he added.
 
 
