Justice C S   became the first constitutional court judge in India to get convicted and sentenced for contempt of court. 

 The legal community is split debating the correctness of procedure followed by the   in convicting him, a few complaining that   did not get a proper trial. Viewed from any angle, the case had the trappings of a “hard case making bad law”.
 
 In S P Gupta case [1981 Supp (1) SCC 87], the   admitted this. “Great cases, like hard cases, make bad law. For great cases are called great not by reason of their real importance in shaping the law of the future, but because of some accident of immediate overwhelming interest which appeals to the feelings and distorts the judgment. These immediate interests exercise a kind of hydraulic pressure which makes what previously was clear seem doubtful, and before which even well settled principles of law will bend.”
 
 The accident happened when Justice Karnan was selected as a judge. It is not clear from the   what great qualities were seen in him by nine judges of the SC and Madras HC to recommend his appointment as an HC judge eight years ago.
 
 The accident soon turned into a nightmare. Using the ‘Dalit’ card as a shield, Justice Karnan kept sniping and damaging the reputations of his colleagues in the HC with wild allegations and threats.
 
 He craftily weaved his wild charges with perceived discrimination in his letters and routinely sent them to the media to embarrass judges.
 
 His transfer from Madras HC to   in March last year had little impact on his penchant for directing diatribes against his own tribe.
 
 His January 23 letter to constitutional functionaries outside the judiciary seeking probe against 20 sitting and retired SC and HC judges forced the apex court to suo motu initiate contempt proceedings. 
 
 He defied the apex court’s repeated summons.
 
 While proceedings were going on in the SC, he kept passing orders against seven SC judges despite having no judicial power.
 
 Can we imagine a commoner disobeying the court’s summons repeatedly and aggravating the contempt by harsh utterances? Would he have got a trial, or would he have been sent to jail straight from court?
 
 The only time he appeared before the SC was on March 31 donning a carefree attitude, which probably stemmed from his belief that the SC was impotent to deal with a deviant HC judge. The SC offered him safety if he apologised and promised not to repeat the misdemeanour.
 
 He rejected the offer. True, he did not get a trial.
 
 How could he when he refused to appear before the court and seek one? Superior courts have uniformly taken a tough stand against custodians committing crimes taking advantage of their position—custodial death,  , custodial torture and a guardian raping a girl.
 
 Justice Karnan had taken oath as HC judge to get constitutionally entrusted with the power to do justice. He was the custodian of rule of law and fundamental rights of citizens. Judges too have fundamental rights.
 
 By continuously deluging them with insinuations of the gravest nature, he not only criminally abdicated his constitutional duty to protect fundamental rights of citizens, but also became the abuser of the right to dignity guaranteed under Article 21. 
 
 He didn’t give a hoot to rule of law and constantly defied SC orders.
 
 If the SC had let off Justice Karnan lightly or had waited for his retirement on June 11 to punish him for ex facie contemptuous actions, it would have had a catastrophic impact on public faith in judiciary and eroded its legitimacy. 
 
 CJI J S Khehar rightly said contempt powers did not differentiate between a commoner and a judge.
 
 If a hard case like Justice Karnan made the SC create history, the US Supreme Court had created history by holding a criminal trial for the first time in 1906 on the attorney general’s petition seeking contempt of court action against a small town sheriff.
 
 After a three-year trial, the SC in US vs Shipp [214 US 386 (1909)], held the sheriff guilty of contempt for allowing a lynch mob to forcibly take a black man, whose execution was put on hold on SC orders, out of prison and brutally murder him in a public square. 
 
 The SC had held that once it had stayed execution, the prisoner was in the SC’s custody and it was binding on the sheriff to keep the man alive in prison. He was sentenced to three months in jail.
 
 In taking the right decision in convicting Justice Karnan for contempt, the SC inexplicably said, “Since the incident of contempt includes public statements and publication of orders made by the contemnor, which were highlighted by the electronic and print media, we are of the view that no further statements made by him should be published hereafter.”
 
 Is the SC scared of Justice Karnan’s ranting and unfounded allegations? The public is aware of what he has been uttering all these years. It never impacted people’s faith in the judiciary.
 
 After conviction and sentencing, Justice Karnan at best would have written a few more venomous yet inconsequential letters. 
 
 But that can never be the reason for gagging Justice Karnan and the media, especially when the SC itself brackets free speech among the most sacred fundamental rights.
 
