CHENNAI: A semi-aggressive shove or a wrong touch by an official or a social worker. That is how little it could take to leave a lasting impression on a child in conflict with law or in need of care and protection, for instance, a child beggar or a rape victim.

 The system dealing with such children can end up doing more harm than good if it does not give special attention to the needs of those tender minds.
 
 Recognising the importance of handling of such children by officials involved in criminal justice system,   has planned an inter-disciplinary post-graduate diploma in the nitty-gritty of child psychology. It envisages bringing in international standards in juvenile justice system.
 
 “An understanding of the basic principles of child and adolescent development taking into consideration the mental health of children will be useful for these stakeholders,“ said M Srinivasan, head of the university's criminology department.   has come up with the proposal after discussions with   and some judges of the Madras high court. The first batch of students in all likelihood will be a few chosen police personnel, Srinivasan said. The course will have elements of criminology, psychology and legal studies, he added.
 
 Children in conflict with law are psychologically very different from adults engaged in criminality . So it's imperative that the personnel dealing with such children are sensitised to these protocols, Srinivasan said.
 
 The course, which will cover topics like psychology of delinquency and psychological interventions for children in need of care and protection, is aimed at developing a standard operation procedure (SOP) or protocol. The course will lay a platform for having a child friendly criminal justice system with orientation to wards the child's rehabilitation and re-integration as compared to the one now, which turns adversarial in many cases.
 
 “Currently, there is no set protocol being followed. Even the training modules for personnel dealing with children are only for a day or two, which is not effective,“ Srinivasan said.
 
 It has been planned as a post-graduate diploma which will have six papers and three credits per paper. A resource centre-cum-library on child psychology has been proposed to be set up. Members of child welfare committees, probation officers handling children, personnel of special homes and employees in the social department and social defence website are the target student group.
 
