Trichy: Voicing their opposition against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions, several educational institutions and organizations formed an umbrella body Tamil Nadu Educationist Federation in Trichy on Sunday. Educationists alleged that   violates the federal structure of the country and will eventually erode the rights of the state government. 

 They observed that NEET is an attempt by the Union government to implement the New Education Policy (NEP) through the back door. The organisation has resolved to gather support in the state against NEET through its state conference at Trichy on April 1. 
 
 Coordinator for Jesuits institutions in the state Xavier Alphonse said that awareness would be created among students, teachers and parents on the ill-effects of NEET in the first stage. “They will be sensitized on how it will deprieve the marginal section of the society from pursuing medical education,” he said. 
 
 “What’s the logic behind making students[under CBSE] write test twice from the same syllabus, once for the board examination and again for NEET to check eligibility for admission into medical colleges,” questioned Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu (SPCSS-TN). He also pointed out that teh 
 
 “NEET emphasizes that the syllabus framed by the state is substandard and the evaluation of students too is substandard. Such a stand will only lead to a point where the state government may not be allowed to take policy decisions in terms of language and education,” said Gajendra Babu. 
 
 He alleged that this is a conspiracy to break the federal structure which the Constitution ensures and move to a unitary concept. “NEET does not stand the test of Article 14(right to equality.”
 
 There is no equitable opportunity for learning, he said, while questioning as to how the Centre expect similar learning outcomes from children when there is a huge disparity in per child spending for education by state and Centre-funded special schools. “A national test will disqualify those who do not have access to better education or coaching,” he argued.
 
 Director of Jesuit Council for Education Research and Training (JCERT) John Kennedy said that they oppose NEET on three points it doesn’t make anyone eligible, it doesn’t uphold the federal system of the country and it doesn’t ensures equality. He urged the central government to immediately make ways for the bills tabled by the state legislature get presidential nod and ensure that NEET is deferred this year as well. 
 
 
