BENGALURU: At a health camp held in a reputed school in BTM Layout recently, a doctor and his staff were accused of abusing some girls.The students reached out to a teacher, who passed on the information to  . But when she was asked to support the investigation, she pulled back. Even the girls' parents decided to stay quiet, saying the matter had been resolved.

 Every day, Childline Bangalore gets 5-6 calls related to  . In many cases the whistleblowers are teachers and headmistresses, who'd have observed behavioural changes in students or may have received complaints from them.“Most of the cases reported to us by teachers are pending probe and closure. In some, investigation couldn't even begin, despite the fact that we reached the spot immediately. T he teacher who'd have filed the complaint, would soon deny the same, saying the matter has been settled,“ said Nagasimha G Rao, a nodal officer at Childline Bangalore. In another incident at a school in Lingarajapuram, woman teachers saw a physical education teacher pinching the cheeks of little girls.One of the teachers reported the incident to the childline.But even while the team was gearing up to look into the complaint, the teacher called back saying she wasn't sure if it actually was child abuse. She put a lid on the matter saying the school management will speak to the teacher and warn him. “The matter couldn't be pursued as the teacher refused to cooperate,“ said Nagasimha, adding most of the time teachers wanting to register a complaint end up only seeking information on child abuse.
 
 On Wednesday, the child line received a call from a headmistress, who wanted to know about the laws on child abuse and the complaint mechanism. “When it comes to filing a complaint, we actually don't know where to go. Students rely on us for help, but we often cannot take steps because of the many pressures we face,“ said a teacher, who made a complaint but preferred anonymity.
 
 From the fear of losing jobs to facing harassment from school management and lack of parental support, the reasons behind teachers' hesitancy are plenty. However, there are also instances of teachers going out of their way to help students. Last year, a teacher of a government school reported a case where 16 girls were facing abuse. She brought it to the notice of the helpline and stood her ground despite facing severe pressure from various quarters.
 
 (Cases mentioned above were reported between 6 and 9 months)
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 After parents, it's mostly teachers who students turn to for help. As such, the trend emerging form Childline Bangalore warrants attention.It's an irony that while students are taught to speak their minds, teachers themselves fall silent when it comes to pursuing child abuse cases. But their fears are not unfounded either. It's not easy to go against the tide, especially when one's job could be at stake. It's therefore the responsibility of school managements to train their staff about child abuse laws and encourage them to initiate action when such incidents are reported.Parents too should not keep quiet. Children need to know that they won't go unheard.
 
