Indore:Officials of Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Ltd (MPPKVVCL) have detected a new modus operandi of some consumers to steal power. They have found that the consumers were using a separate neutral line against their connection.  It has come to the notice of the power company officials that many consumers were using an alternate neutral supply line for their permanent connection. Reportedly, a few of them had used a single hot wire with an earth return to draw power.  “It was not possible for us to detect such theft since an alternate neutral or earth return wire does not come to notice and sometimes meters also fail to record the exact amount of power consumed,” Subroto Roy, superintendent engineer MPPKVVCL told TOI. “The practice came to light after the company introduced meter system in transformers. Meter system helped us to evaluate the exact amount of loss on each transformer,” he added. Though the power company is not sure about the exact number of consumers involved in this practice, monthly consumption of over 20,000 consumers have been recorded less than 20 units, raising suspicion over them.  Roy said that residents regularly connect to neutral line illegally, which is dangerous for them and others as well. A special team will be formed to check such practice Indore: As part of their action against repeated violators of traffic signals, authorities of Regional Transport Office (RTO) on Monday suspended the permit of vehicles that were found to have violated traffic rules for more than 15 times.  The RTO had earlier issued notices to owners of 250 vehicles who have not paid fine against e-challans issued to them for jumping red lights. Their vehicles were found to have jumped traffic signals for more than 15 times. The violation count of these vehicles ranges from 15 to 56 times.  Most of these vehicles are of commercial category. Of these 250 vehicles, 200 vehicles have permanent permit, while remaining 50 vehicles have temporary permit.  “We have suspended the permanent permits of 200 vehicles, while temporary permits of such vehicles is also being cancelled with immediate effect,” said regional transport officer MP Singh. He further said that the suspention period for permanent permit holders will be based on violation counts. It will range from one to four months.  After failing to recover fine from traffic rule violators, traffic police authorities had approached transport department to initiate legal action against repeated violators, who jumped red light signals for more than 3 times. They had sent a list of red light violators, who have not cleared their fines for past one year, even after several notices.  Elaborating about their further course of plan, officials said that in our first phase of action, we have shortlisted the vehicles, which have been found jumping red light signals more than 15 times. In next phase, they will target vehciles with violation count from 10 to 14.  “We will also share the list of these 250 vehicles with traffic police to keep a check that these vehicles do not ply on roads during suspension period,” they said. 