NAGPUR:Many big private and government establishments figure in the list of top 100 defaulters of property tax and water bills. After not acting against them for years, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to auction properties if the arrears are not paid in the current amnesty scheme.

 The civic body’s amnesty scheme will begin from July 17 and conclude on August 7. NMC will waive off 100% interest on water bills and 90% on property tax under the scheme.
 
 In the wake of the amnesty scheme, NMC has released a list of top 100 defaulters on Saturday and Sunday. KSL and  , developers of Empress Mall, is the overall topper among the defaulters with arrears of around Rs45 crore, of which Rs35 crore is for water and Rs10 crore in property tax. KSL owes the highest arrears in water bills. Ten property units of KSL, all of them part of Empress Mall, feature in the top 100 defaulters list for property tax.
 
 NMC had disconnected the water connection to Empress Mall a few years ago but has taken no action to recover arrears of water bills and property tax.
 
 Builder N Kumar’s Indo-Pacific Software and Entertainment Limited, which is the developer of Inox Poonam Mall at Wardhaman Nagar in  , is the topper among defaulters of property tax, owing around Rs17 crore. The mall also features in the top 100 defaulters of water bills.
 
 Kumar’s other property at Khamla Square is also among the top 100 defaulters of property tax, but NMC said the case is under an appeal. Another of Kumar’s mall — Poonam Chambers on Koradi road — is also among the top 100 water defaulters.
 
 Some other big players in top the 100 defaulters of property tax are Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited, which is constructing a sprawling housing scheme at Rambagh, Tuli Hotels Private Limited’s hotel at Ramdaspeth, Andhra Association, and Dharampeth Education Society.
 
 Most of the top 100 defaulters of property tax are government establishments, including forest department’s PCCF office, VNIT, Nagpur Improvement Trust, MIHAN India Public Limited etc
 
 Among the top 100 water defaulters, some big names are Midas Heights at Ramdaspeth, Shewalkar Garden Shop Owners Association at Gopal Nagar, Vidarbha Theatre Commercial Complex or   at Azamshah layout,   on Katol Road etc
 
 Mayor   and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said notices will be served to top 100 defaulters in parallel with the amnesty scheme. “Officials have been directed to complete required process to auction the properties by August 7. A special team headed by one of the assistant commissioners has been constituted to auction the properties. Water connections of top 100 defaulters will be disconnected. In fact, target is to disconnect water connections of 1,000 defaulters every day,” they said.
 
 As per NMC data, four out of 10 (2.29 lakh of the total 5.35 lakh) property tax payers are defaulters. Arrears from property tax are around Rs378 crore, including Rs100 crore interest. The arrears amount is double NMC’s annual revenue, which was Rs185.113 crore in the last fiscal on this account.
 
 In water bills, six out of 10 (1.93 lakh of total 3.21 lakh) are defaulters. The arrears are around Rs180 crore, which is 50% more than the annual revenue, which was around Rs125 crore in the last fiscal.
 
 
