Nagpur: ‘Chanda to Banda’, a state-level publicity campaign for 50 crore plantation drive was kicked off by forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on May 1, Maharashtra Day, from his hometown Chandrapur. ‘Chanda to Banda’ (or from Chandrapur to Banda in Sawantwadi, a town at the Goa border in Sindhudurg) is often used to refer to the width of the state in layman’s language. A specially designed digital Chitrarath (vehicle) was launched to showcase importance of plantation to the common man. It will move in all districts of the state to create awareness. “We will appeal to the people to be part of the drive and also ask individuals and NGOs to join the Green Army, for which at least a crore volunteers will be roped in,” said Mungantiwar. In 2017, the state forest department and other departments and agencies plan to plant 4 crore saplings in eight days from July 1 to 7. In 2018, the government plans to plant 13 crore saplings, followed by 33 crore in 2019. Last monsoon, under the 2 crore plantation drive, the department had exceeded the target by planting 2.83 crore saplings. However, even after 9 months, no reports have been made public about evaluation of these plantations as promised by the minister himself. The social forestry department (SFD) was told to evaluate the plantations after every three months. TOI reported last month that massive plantation drive by the forest department in Ambazari failed miserably, with no plants surviving at the site. There is a similar situation in many districts in the state. Massive forest fires in the state have destroyed plantations at several places. Of the 4 crore plantations, gram panchayats have been given a target to plant a crore saplings. For success of the program and interaction with villagers, rural development department (RDD) had issued instructions to hold special gram sabhas on May 1. As per government instructions, forest officials have been asked to form cluster of villages in particular taluka, where supervisory officers will be appointed to monitor the help needed by gram panchayats from the forest department. Officials have been directed to convince gram sabhas to promote plantations on occasion of marriages, birthdays, birth of child, memory of close persons etc.