CHENNAI:   law minister   on Sunday said   deserved to be booked under provisions of the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for the “slum behaviour” remark made by a participant of ‘Bigg Boss’ hosted by the actor. Haasan earned the ire of the ruling dispensation after he stated on Wednesday that no government department was free from corruption.

 Soon after what was the second threat handed out to Haasan, leader of Opposition M K Stalin released a statement in defence of the actor. “Haasan is only reflecting the sentiments of the people. It is the right of every voter including Haasan to criticize the benami and horse-trading government in power,” Stalin said.
 
 On Saturday, minister for municipal administration S P Velumani threatened to conduct an audit to find out if Haasan paid taxes for all his films.
 
 Shanmugam, who spoke to reporters in Viluppuram, said, “Kamal Haasan has shown slum people in a bad light.” One of the participants of  , in a recent episode, had commented that certain particiapants were “behaving like slum people”. The minister said that the actor must take responsibility for this comment.
 
 Shanmugam said Haasan had no right to question the functioning of the state government. “Haasan has no moral right to comment on people’s life. He was living with a woman he was not even married to,” Shanmugam said, referring to the actor’s previous relationship with actress Gautami. 
 
 In his statement, Stalin said, “Tamil Nadu is steeped in corruption. This has been pointed out by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Central Bureau of Investigation, Madras High Court and the Supreme Court”. Listing out instances of corruption, Stalin listed instances of corruption addinmg that they were all carried out right under the chief minister’s nose. Stalin said, “If legal action were to be initiated based on evidence of corruption in the cancelled R K Nagar elections, horse-trading of MLAs at Koovathur or the Gutkha scam, all ministers will go to jail.” Haasan thanked Stalin through a series of tweets on Sunday.
 
