NAGPUR:   has been in power in   (NMC) since ten years and anti-incumbency is a natural consequence of it. However, some political scientists and BJP leaders don’t see this affecting the party’s performance in the coming civic elections.   leaders seem to have different opinions while  , which part of the government, feels that BJP will the pay price for not fulfilling its election promises.

 An even bigger question is that whether Congress, where factionalism is still rife, is in a position to take advantage of any anti-incumbency factor against the civic government. Congress leaders deny that their bickering will help BJP while the saffron outfit thinks that Congress, be it united or divided, is not in a position to challenge them.
 
 Political scientist Vikas Jambhulkar said that there was not much anti-incumbency against the present government. “However, people will certainly assess the work done by their corporators and the government as a whole. As for Congress, its strife apart, people will judge its candidates by the kind of public contact they maintained in these years,” he added.
 
 Another political expert, Anjali Gaidhane, also said that there did not seem to be much of an anti-incumbency against the BJP. “This factor is important in many elections but does not seem to be a strong factor here,” she told TOI.
 
 Congress leader Praful Gudadhe said that the failure of BJP to provide civic services would badly affect them in the elections. “The local leaders have not done anything and keep on harping on the decisions made at the central and state level. Water tariff and property tax have gone up in their regime,” he said, adding that Congress was fully geared up to take on its main rival.
 
 Even though Shiv Sena is a part of the government, its district president Satish Harde slammed the BJP for non-performance. “They have failed on many fronts. Development of CM Fadnavis’s constituency doesn’t mean that the entire city has benefited,” he said.
 
 Former Congress minister Nitin Raut feels that demonetisation would be a bigger factor against BJP than anti-incumbency. “People have gone through a lot of inconvenience due to the decision. It will reflect when they vote,” he said, adding that Congress would become united very soon.
 
 Dayashankar Tiwari, ruling party leader in NMC, said that there was no anti-incumbency factor against the party. “BJP has defeated many Congress stalwarts in municipal council polls. The same will happen here,” he added.
 
 Senior BJP corporator Sandip Joshi said he too felt the same way. He said that the city had witnessed unprecedented pace of development during his party’s tenure and claimed that Congress as an opposition party had only levelled baseless allegations.
 
 
