JAIPUR: After successfully cracking down on cybercrime, the Jaipur crime branch is planning to provide training to investigate such cases to policemen in four police districts of the city.

 Crime branch will not only increase awareness of cybercrimes among policemen but will also discuss various methods to crack such cases.
 
 According to   released in 2016, there has been a huge rise in cybercrimes in Rajasthan compared to previous years.
 
 “Our state ranked third after Maharashtra and Karnataka in this category. In 2016, cyber cons had made almost 5,000 internet calls in Rajasthan, including almost 2,000 in Jaipur itself. It had forced us to rope in ethical hackers to track these cases.
 
 So, we are taking this very seriously,” said a senior officer of the crime branch on Saturday.
 
 When contacted, Vikas Pathak, deputy commissioner of police (crime), told TOI, “Over the past three months, we have given a clear and loud message to cyber cons that we will not let them operate in the city. We have made arrests, recovered a good amount and busted various gangs from Jamtara district of Jharkhand, which is considered a bastion of cyber cons. We have not decided to enable our men in all four districts as there is an increase in such cases.”
 
 “They will be made familiar with operations such as tracking IP addresses, internet calling and online shopping using ATM card, among other things. Those who are willing and have knowledge of computers will be selected for training. This will help us bring down the disposal rate in cybercrimes at police stations,” Pathak added.
 
 Over 120 FIRs lodged in cyber category: Cyber cons had made almost 5,000 calls to various people asking for ATM and card verification value (CVV) numbers in a bid to withdraw money from their accounts. More than 120 FIRs in cyber-related crimes have been lodged at various police stations in the city. Since the police have started making arrests in such cases, those who were earlier hesitant to lodge complaints are coming to stations even for minor offences. As per NCRB records of 2016, Rajasthan came third in the country in cybercrimes after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Maharastra reported 2,195 such cases, Karnataka 1,447 and Rajasthan 949 in 2015.
 
