Ajmer: Victims of the sensational   murder case, Nagaur Thursday demanded from the court that CBI has not produced the memorandum given by Jat Panchayat to district administration on May 10, 2015 in which it was written that actions will be taken against the Dalits, if they not shift from the land within seven days. In application, the victims also stated that CBI has not convicted the accused in several sections of IPC which are already on record. 

 Meanwhile, Meanwhile, CBI produced three more accused in the court which sent them to judicial custody and directed the investigation agency to arrest more accused in this matter Thursday. There are total nine arrests in this case while 31 are still absconding against whom CBI already filed chargesheet in the court on last hearing date. The special SC and ST court of Merta, Nagaur asked CBI to reply to the application of victims.
 
 Date for evidence of Arjun Ram was fixed on Thursday but advocate of victims Ramesh Bansal moved the application stating that while filing chargesheet against accused, CBI has not produced the memorandum dated May 10, 2015. “This is important evidence showing that murder and atrocity were preplanned and district administration had the knowledge of it,” said Bansal.
 
 Bansal added it was stated in the memorandum that Jats of Dangawas village had a meeting where they intimated the district administration about their mood. He said it was also mentioned in the memorandum that if Dalits are not removed from the land in seven days, then they will remove them.
 
 “Similarly, there are sections of IPC like loot which was not added in the chargesheet by CBI against accused whereas there are evidences on record,” added Bansal. He further said there were names of about 200 accused in FIR but CBI has arrested only nine accused in this matter in which they produced three accused Thursday. The court fixed March 23 as next date of hearing in this matter.
 
 Meanwhile, CBI filed chargesheet against 34 accused in this case on last date stating that all are at large. CBI charged all 34 accused for aiding and abating the killing and violation of SC and ST Act in Dangawas incident. Previously, CBI obtained arrest warrants against the accused and also raided their places with local police but failed to arrest them.
 
 According to case, six people were died and several were injured in May 2015 in a community clash. Looking to sensitivity of the matter, state government first transferred the investigation to CID and later to CBI. The allegation was that Dalits of Dangawas village were beaten badly by another community over dispute of land. Later, police arrested six people including Premaram alias Premsukh Khadawa, Pancharam Jhajhar and other four were arrested in this incident.
 
 
