NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party’s national secretary,  , on Wednesday wrote to chief election commissioner (CEC)   saying that   was ready to examine the electronic voting machines ( ) with its team of experts.

 However, AAP has sought certain details of the EVMs and has placed certain pre-conditions for carrying out the EVM examination.
 
 In his letter, Gupta said: “It has been reported through several media outlets that the   will soon allow political parties to examine EVMs with their expert teams. We are really thankful to you for accepting our proposal. Since no official information is available regarding the configuration of EVMs from the EC or any concerned agencies, kindly provide us details of the micro controllers and chips for storage/memory or for any other purpose.”
 
 He added, “we want you to allow us to pick variants of EVM machines (machines with different software and hardware) used to conduct elections. Most importantly those recently used in the state elections of UP and Punjab — randomly from a strongroom instead of the commission. So the machines provided are not those specifically prepared for the demonstration/examination.” 
 
 Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Monday reaffirmed his demand for voting by ballot paper in the municipal corporation polls on April 23.
 
 Kejriwal had earlier met the CEC on Saturday to demand an investigation into the cause of faulty EVMs citing a video that surfaced on Friday showing a faulty EVM recording votes only for   (BJP), irrespective of which button was being pressed.
 
 Before elections, the EC invites parties to inspect some machines and replaces the ones found faulty. “Every single EVM must be checked from now onwards. If some EVMs can be faulty, many others may also be tampered with. These reports are shocking and raise doubts about the essence of democracy in this country,” Kejriwal had said. “This means that if this continues, no matter who people vote for, the lotus will bloom out of the muck of EVMs,” he added.
 
