CHANDIGARH: When a greenhorn AAP had contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in Punjab, its candidates and volunteers had proudly worn their ‘Mein Hoon Aam Aadmi’ topis. However, in three years, the trademark headgear – a reminder of the party’s anti-corruption roots – has been relegated to campaign accessories. Neither the candidates not the volunteers are sporting it anymore in Punjab even as it can be seen in the campaign in Goa.

 During his recent visits to Punjab, party supremo   has preferred to wear a turban at public events. The party had introduced a band with ‘AAP’ written on it for its turban-sporting Sikh cadres last year. But the run-up to the assembly elections has seen the party leaders being branded as “topiwalas” by the Akalis and Congress to label them as outsiders.
 
 AAP’s in charge of Punjab affairs Sanjay Singh says there is no conscious effort by the party to bring down the visibility of the topi. “It is just that the turban band and party scarf have become more popular in the state,” he says. “The idea is to wear the party symbol to express support. Many key leaders of the party in Punjab wear turbans and it suits them.”
 
 He adds that there is no question of making a change in response to criticism by rival parties. “We do our work and are not affected by jibes made by other parties,” he insists.
 
 However, Congress secretary   says that AAP was making a desperate attempt to get rid of its “outside” image. “The party does not understand the local sensibilities of Punjab,” he states.
 
 Harmilap Singh Grewal, leader of the   (APP), who was earlier with AAP, adds, “The sidecap was never a part of Punjabi culture. Even before Independence, non-Sikhs used to wear “turle wali” turban. The cap came into the AAP imagery from the Anna movement and it can never be accepted by people of Punjab.”
 
 An AAP candidate for the upcoming elections differed and said even though the focus is not on topis as much but many party supporters can still be seen wearing these at public meetings and rallies. “The limit on expenses could be one reason why the caps have been distributed less,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, H O Jindal, a printer, said in 2014 he had supplied over two lakh topis to AAP, but this time the focus was more on silk flags. “The trend keeps changing and the number of sidecaps supplied has dipped substantially,” he says.
 
 In May last year, AAP’s Canada unit had circulated a video asking Sikh NRIs to come to the party’s public events wearing the yellow (Basanti) turban popularised by party leader Bhagwant Mann. The message, sent out by   convener  , had her underline “opposition needs to be given a strong message that AAP is not a party of topiwalas only”.
 
