As students, working part time ensures constant pocket money as well as experience and confidence to face the real world. But does this affect studies? We find out…

 I strongly feel that part-time   for students can have a positive impact on their lives. Students who earn their own money tend to spend it wisely. They also help build our confidence and socializing skills. Part-time jobs help students get an introduction to a career that they plan to step into after college 
 
 
 Part-time jobs are a boon to college students. It allows us to earn little money on the sidelines that helps us get through the last week of the month. In some cases, if the job has something to do with our course, it also serves as a job experience. Most of these part-time jobs are also extremely student-friendly, since they assure flexibility of timings and don’t really encroach students’ actual 
  
 
 
 
 College students often opt for part-time jobs to financially aid their sustainance. This leads to a variety of adverse effects including lack of sleep and other health related issues due to an excessive amount of time spent working and studying. So, while part-time jobs are definitely beneficial, I think they do more harm than good
  
 
 
 Part-time jobs have both advantages and disadvantages, based on how you manage it. It basically depends on the time and effort you put into your work. If you work for a long time, and do not give importance to your studies there are very high chances that it may 
 interfere with your marks. It is useful as well, because students are able to save as well 
 
 
 
 A part-time job doesn’t interfere with a student’s study schedule, but prioritizing it over studies does. Part-time jobs give that motivational lift to achieve. But when it goes to a point where the money earned becomes more important than the experience, students tend to go off track. Part-time jobs with restricted rules can never harm, thus it depends on the company.
 
 
 
 I believe part-time jobs are helpful, especially if one chooses jobs based on their interests as it can become an outlet to break free from academic. It also helps us gain hands-on experience in our fields. Also, we learn so much more than what is taught in our syllabus. Apart from improving our resumes, these jobs also help us build contacts and gain exposure in our respective fields while getting paid at the same time. 
 
 
 
 Compiled by Rachel.Windsor@timesgroup.com and Sanjana Sindhe
 
