PATNA: Incessant rain for the last two days has underlined the problem of paucity of space at the terminal building of Patna’s Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport (JPNI) which saw   sitting on the floor as their flights were delayed owing to turbulent weather.

 Seven flights were diverted to the nearby airports, including Kolkata and Ranchi, and one flight was cancelled on Monday. On Sunday as well, three flights were diverted to nearby cities. Besides, several other flights arrived late.
 
 As flyers booked in these flights on their return journey were stranded at the city airport, the chairs in the security hold area proved inadequate to seat all of them. Many sat on the floor.
 
 Wildlife Trust of India manager Samir Kumar Sinha, who works with Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve, told TOI the security hold area was chock-a-block on Monday afternoon.
 
 “My Raipur- bound flight of Indigo (G8-708) was delayed by three and a half hours. I spent time standing for nearly an hour before I got a chair. I didn’t leave the chair for the next two hours or so, fearing someone else would occupy it and I would not get another chair,” he said, adding the area as it is remains overcrowded in peak hours even on normal days.
 
 Airport officials put the average number of passengers at the airport at around 7,000 daily whereas the seating capacity of the passenger holding area, including the security hold area, is not more than 1,000. 
 
 The state government and Airports Authority of India (AAI) are working on its expansion plans. The proposed extended terminal building would be a two-storey structure with four aerobridges and parking bays for 20 aircraft. 
 
 The expansion is also expected to facilitate night operations at the airport at which flights currently operate only from 7am to 9:30pm.
 
 However, the expansion work is behind schedule. Sources said the actual construction work was targeted to commence from July, which has not started yet.
 
 “The construction work has been slightly delayed, but the groundwork is underway as temporary cabins have been constructed adjacent to the Bihar Flying Club, in which maintenance equipment of the state hangar would be kept. The bidding process for selection of firm for the expansion of terminal building has also been finalised,” said an AAI official at the Patna airport.
 
 
