Prominent authors, thinkers, and members of the literati from across the country and abroad will gather to participate in the inaugural edition of ' ', a literature festival to be held at   in Kerala. 

  The literature festival, organized by the non-profit   under the patronage of former Union Minister  , MP, and UN undersecretary General, and supported by  , will be held during November 11 to 12. 
 
  Books on the Beach, besides being an annual platform for the best in Indian and world literature, will also tap into Kovalam’s youthful energy and distinctive charm to promote it as a leading destination for culture and tourism, reported Dr Tharoor and Dr Venu V, Principal Secretary, Department of Tourism.
 
  Dr Tharoor said, “Literature has real value. It appeals to a more discerning audience. The Hay Festival of literature and arts here a few years ago was a huge success”. 
 
  “It is time we established a durable institution that showcases Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala as a place of ideas and culture. But a lit-fest is not for visitors alone. It will also further energise the already vibrant reading culture in the state,” Tharoor added.
 
  Over the three-day event, the intelligentsia will conduct readings and recitals besides participating in meaningful debates and dialogues on a multitude of topics.
 
  Dr Venu said, “Cultural festivals play an important role in branding and promoting destinations. Kerala Tourism is presently positioning the state as an arts and culture hub.” He also added that a literature festival with an international perspective will fit in nicely alongside the Kochi-Muziris Biennale, IFFK and International Theatre festival as powerful brand ambassadors. “The festival will provide a fillip to tourism in the state, and in particular renew interest in Kovalam. The lit-fest will enjoy Kerala Tourism’s full support.”
 
  Festival director   said “We expect to field a strong line-up of about 30 international and Indian writers, many of whom have already expressed their willingness to attend.”
 
 
