MUMBAI: The   (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) has breached the 25crore mark in passenger count in two years and seven months, the fastest for any metro network in the country. The 11.40km east-west corridor, built under the public-private partnership model, started in June 2014.

 A Mumbai Metro One Private Ltd (MMOPL) official said, “We carried the 250 millionth passenger in 957 days (around 31 months) of operations. We have become the quickest Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) to notch up this number in the country.” MMOPL touched the 20crore mark in 786 days, and the next five crore were added in 171 days.
 
 Delhi   (DMRC), which operates the corridor in the capital, touched this figure in five years. The Delhi corridor was 65km long when it touched this figure. It opened in 2002 and achieved the figure in 2007.
 
 Likewise, the 16.45km Kolkata Metro took almost seven years from 1991 to notch the figure. 
 
 A Metro official said, “Our performance is significant, considering that unlike Delhi and Kolkata, Mumbai has a better culture of public transport, with a good network of suburban corridors, BEST buses and private operators like autorickshaws, taxis and now cab aggregators.”
 
 Since December, MMOPL has linked up with BEST to provide another convenient last mile connectivity option. BEST operates a feeder service catering to Metro commuters from Saki Naka station to Chandivli and back during morning and evening peak hours. It also tied up with Ola Share for last mile connectivity.
 
 The official said, “Our corridor, with 12 stations, is the eight densest in the world. It has helped reduce travel time for commuters from 90 minutes to 21 minutes.”
 
 Apart from reduced travel time, Metro officials claimed its superior performance is also because of excellent punctuality records ever since the system came into existence.
 
 He said, “2016 also marked high performance level in punctuality and availability of trains. We operated 1,25,457 trips, out of which 1,22,580 trips (approximately 98%) were with zero second loss of punctuality, whereas punctuality performance within a three-minute range was 99.9%.”
 
 
