GURUGRAM:  , which has become a nightmare for motorists and pedestrians, would soon be developed as a “smart road” by getting rid of   and  . A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting held on Tuesday by the  .

 Apart from the Mall Mile, it was also decided that the civic body,   and the police department would jointly conduct anti-encroachment drive so as to free all the main roads in the city from squatters and street-parking.
 
 “We will take up one road at a time and will sustain the campaign for at least a month so that these encroachments do not come back. To start with, we will rid the entire stretch of the Mall Mile of encroachments and illegal parking on the roadside to make MG Road a smart road,” MCG commissioner V Umashankar told TOI.
 
 According to the MCG chief, people tend to park on MG Road as they find parking charges steep in malls. “While right now we don’t have control over the parking fees charged by these malls, the mall owners will have to pay us property tax if they use their basement parking for commercial gains, even if they charge one rupee for parking,” he said.
 
 “However, if they allow free basement parking, then the basement is tax-free. The option is for them to choose — allow free parking or pay property tax. Anyway, we are preparing a list of mall owners who have paid property tax for using their basement parking for monetary gains,” he added.
 
 Residents, especially those who live in the vicinity of MG Road, have welcomed the move.
 
 “The whole patch near the MG Road Metro station is a nightmare to cross during peak hours. Half the stretch gets occupied by the shared autos and buses which often stop in the middle of the road to pick up and drop passengers,” said Sandeep Kumar, who lives in Sushant Lok.
 
 “There are so many cars parked both on the main road and the service lanes on both the sides, especially during the weekend. It makes walking impossible, especially in the evenings,” said Ankita Singh, a marketing professional, who often takes the Metro from MG Road station.
 
 
