Vadodara: A palatial building in the heart of the station area will be open for citizen who will be able to catch public transport and even shop from it. The Smart City Transport Hub project was given a nod by the Vadodara Smart City Development Ltd (VSCDL) – the special purpose vehicle floated for Smart City projects.

 VSCDL held its board meeting on Thursday to discuss the bids for the project. The project has been allotted to Ahmedabad-based realty company ISCON Group Ltd (IGL). Decks for the project were cleared on Tuesday when Pathik Bhavan – the last building that needed to be removed for the project was razed.
 
 VMC commissioner Vinod Rao said that three companies had submitted the expression of interest in the project. Of these, ISCON was offering the highest premium to the civic body. The hub will integrate the city bus service, railways, state transport depot, taxi services, rickshaws as well as public parking.
 
 Rao said that the hub had been christened as Jan Mahal as the city had several palaces which were commonly called Raj Mahal. “This will be a facility for the people designed like a palace and hence we decided to call it Jan Mahal,” said Rao.
 
 The VMC will be paid a premium of Rs 39 crore by the developer over a period of 30 years. The public transport and parking facilities will be transferred to the civic body after this period. The developer will have the rights for the remaining parts for a period of 90 years.
 
 ISCON Group’s managing director Jateen Gupta said that the services at the hub will be comparable at the airport. He said that the project would be a green building and would be disabled friendly.
 
 The project saw the light of the day after a prolonged battle as those who had possession of shops in Pathik Bhavan had made the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) a party in a suit in which they had been granted a stay order on razing of the building. But the building was partially damaged in the demolition drive on January 8 before the civic body was issued the order.
 
 The VMC had moved an application seeking that the building was dangerous and needed to be brought down. The court allowed the civic body to do so and proceed with the project.
 
 
