NAGPUR: Even as the   (NU) roped in the well-equipped Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) this week, its properties remain vulnerable to mischief, thefts and encroachments.

 On Saturday, the inmates of NU’s pharmacy hostel were aghast after they found all the recently fitted taps missing from their bathrooms. Left with no choice, they had to directly draw water from the tank for bathing etc.
 
 This is the second theft of taps in the last 10 days; yet no police complaint was lodged. The university had carried out renovation works in the hostel and around 26 taps were part of the new bathroom ware.
 
 Hostel warden   said MSSC was supposed to deploy personnel by July 15 but the previous agency guards are still continuing. “This security agency and the contractor have been asked to foot the bill for the missing taps. We would wait for their reply and if they refuse to own the liability, a police complaint will be filed,” he said.
 
 The inmates said they suspect the thefts to be a handiwork of either the contractor’s men or the security guards. “The taps were fitted a month ago. About 10 days ago, when the first theft took place, we had written to the NU administration as well as the contractor. On Saturday, at 7.30am, we found that the remaining taps too were stolen. We have noticed in both the incidents that the guard left the premises during the thefts,” they said.
 
 Students’ Welfare director   didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 The inmates said the thefts are also going on at other hostels of the university. They also said the pharmacy hostel premises is being used by nearby slumlords to breed pigs.
 
 On October 20, TOI had reported how the hostel had turned into a breeding ground for pigs. Hostel inmates had complained that pigs roam all over the place. The stray animals were entering from an incomplete patch of the hostel compound wall. Later, the top officials also visited the hostel and decided to construct a wall.
 
 Till date, the wall remains to be constructed by the administration while the hostel inmates continue to face the risk of getting bitten by pigs besides being exposed to vector-borne diseases.
 
