NEW DELHI: It would have been a perfect plot for the kidnappers of Dr Srikanth Goud had they not left behind some clues for the cops, including the car used in the abduction being a WagonR.

 The investigating teams formed by joint commissioner (eastern range) Ravindra Yadav found that all the documents used to enrol with cab-aggregator Ola were faked. What worried the cops more was that the kidnappers had called the Ola office in Bengaluru   as Al-Qaida operatives.
 
 The first breakthrough in the case came on July 8, two days after the kidnapping. While scanning through the documents, the investigators came across an address in Vasundhara in Ghaziabad where the mobile number (*****6238) used to enrol with Ola was registered.
 
 When a team led by SHO Preet Vihar Maninder Singh reached Vasundhara, they found another WagonR cab parked in the colony. This car had been bought from one Tanya Motors in Meerut. The colony residents told the cops that two brothers used to drive two WagonRs cabs. They were identified as Sushil and Anuj, residents of Dadri.
 
 Acting on this clue, a team was sent to Dadri where they found the WagonR (DL1R TC 1611) used in the abduction abandoned near a field. The registration number was found to be incomplete. “When we reached the house of Sushil and Anuj, their family members told us that they were missing since July 6. This confirmed our suspicion about their role in the crime,” said DCP (east) Omvir Singh.
 
 The kidnappers had taken all possible steps to avoid being tracked. The cops found face masks, rubber bands and aluminium foils, which would have been used to wrap the ransom money. The foil would have helped mask the GPS signals of the trackers fitted in the notes.
 
 Sushil and Anuj were finally tracked near Sakroti village in Meerut by a team led by ACP Preet Vihar Hemant Tiwari. Police said that they kept changing locations every 2-3 days and communicated in code language to avoid raising suspicion. None of them used a mobile phone.
 
 The gang had travelled to Haridwar and stopped at six places in between. An informer soon gave a tip-off about their location and the doctor was found locked up in an apartment with four kidnappers on watch. An encounter ensued in which one of the kidnappers, Pramod, was injured. Pramod, Nepal, Amit and Sohanveer were soon arrested.
 
 Pramod told the cops that his cousin Sushil and neighbour Amit had hatched the plan to   an Ola passenger. They had roped in their neighbours, Gaurav and Vivek, in the plot. On July 6, Sushil took the booking from Goud after rejecting three calls after finding out that he was travelling alone.
 
 He drove the car to Noida where he was joined by the others travelling in a Hyundai Santro belonging to Gaurav. Two of them boarded the WagonR, overpowered the doctor and forced him to hand over his mobile phone.
 
 They drove to Gaurav’s house on July 7 and made the first call to the Ola control room. They also planned their travel route there. Four of them would keep moving to different locations with the victim, while the other four would negotiate with Ola using the doctor’s cellphone.
 
 Sushil and Anuj stayed in Ghaziabad, while their families stayed at their ancestral house with their father Satyaveer. Raids are being conducted in western UP and Uttarakhand to nab Anuj, Sushil, Gaurav and Vivek.
 
 
