VISAKHAPATNAM: With the government shifting to the English medium of instruction in schools, there is a huge demand for   in the rural belt of   including the three north coastal districts. 

 As a result of rise in urbanisation, all those who acquired quality English education never set foot in the rural belt again. This led to a demand-supply mismatch which kept on increasing. “The number of people who are capable of teaching English competently in rural areas of north coastal AP is 1:10,000. This dearth is now being felt with the state government passing orders to introduce English medium in all KGBV schools,” said P  , a well-known English tutor from Vizianagaram district. 
 
 According to Krishnaji Patnaik, “Seventy percent of those who dropped out of school either after their 7th standard or 10th left because English was a hurdle they could never deal with. One of the reason is that there are not enough quality teachers of English in the rural belt.”
 
 “When we were taught in schools in the 1950s and slightly later, the quality of teachers of English language was top notch,” said P  , a former headmaster. “English was taught from Class 5 and by class 10 we were given a very strong foundation. Personally, I believe that this is a good move by the state government. But there are just not enough competent teachers.”
 
 Regarding the increasing demand for teachers, Krishnaji said, “People are willing to pay Rs 1,000 per year (per student) for English tuitions in villages. This has given rise to a number of tutorials in the rural areas. This has also ensured that the number of people willing to specialise in English has shot up, especially among men as earlier it was considered a domain for women, especially those educated in Convent schools and colleges.” 
 
 Sources in the education department, however, pointed out that this may not be an easy shift as most of the government schools are predominantly Telugu oriented. 
 
 The sources said 99% of the private schools including those located in rural areas are English medium, while over 90% (till 2016) of the government schools have been Telugu medium. 
 
 Nageswara Rao pointed out, “The government must focus on retraining their teachers first, only then can they focus on students. Most of the teachers in state government schools are not comfortable with the language and the transition from Telugu to English will not be easy for the teachers.”
 
 In the meantime, English teachers in rural areas are fast gaining currency and a number of unemployed youngsters are making a decent living. As sources in the state primary education department have pointed out, the government is keen on increasing the supply of English teachers by employing them on a contract basis. According to the sources, there is a 50% short fall of English teachers in government schools in AP. 
 
