NAGPUR: There is a problem of plenty with  , which was in short supply a couple of years ago with the price touching a record high.

 As the harvest arrives in markets, private traders have reduced purchases to a minimal level. Farmers are turning to government centres, which are running out of space to store the stock. Government purchases at minimum support price (MSP) are being done through National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED).
 
 Farmers are being handed over tokens at some centres, for an advance date, instead of the produce being purchased on the spot.
 
 “The rush is unprecedented. Farmers are being asked to come with the sample of tur first and are given a token to bring the stock at an advanced date,” said a source in the state government’s agriculture marketing department. Another official in Amravati too confirmed about the situation.
 
 “The sudden flow was not expected. Farmers have increased cultivation hoping to get good rates,” said Roshan Kothari, director of   at Wani.
 
 Tur daal, the commonly consumed pulse, hit the headlines two years ago for its spiralling rates. Raw tur, which is processed into tur daal, is fetching Rs500 below MSP of Rs5,050 a quintal.
 
 “Private traders are not seeing any logic in piling up stock as there is enough carry forward inventory, especially with government sources. With no incremental demand, traders are not keen on buying too,” said Ashok Goel of  .
 
 Sources said that private buyers are holding up purchases as they want the rates to go down further. Even at Rs4,500 for tur whole which is the raw material, millers are not finding it feasible to sell it at the current wholesale market rate of Rs70 per kg. The rates need to touch at least Rs85 a kg, said a source.
 
 The cultivation has nearly doubled in all the drought-prone districts of the state. In Yavatmal alone, it is 2 lakh hectares. The procurement used to be around 10,000-12,000 tones in the entire Amravati division. Now, Washim alone has accounted for 35,000 tonness, said Kishore Tiwari, director of   (VNSSM), a state government mission on farmers. Steps are being taken to ease the situation, in coordination with the district administration.
 
 Rahul Dwiwedi, district collector of Washim which is one of the affected districts, said, “Government godowns are expected to be full soon. Steps are being taken to set up temporary storing arrangements and look for warehouse in other areas too. Permission is being sought to rent private godown. However, on the brighter side, farmers are not being sent back and government procurement is continuing.”
 
 
