NAGPUR: All India Congress Committee’s newly promoted general secretary Avinash Pande has admitted that the Opposition has miserably failed in diffusing the ‘false halo’ surrounding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s persona. “It is for the people to see through it, but the Congress-led opposition has also the task of undoing that halo. The day we succeed, the Congress will be back to its winning ways,” he added.

 Pande, a former member of the  , was last week promoted from secretary to general secretary post of AICC and appointed in-charge of Rajasthan state. The post is important as the desert state is poll-bound next year. Asked about the immediate challenges before him, Pande said, “Exposing the   and Modi who are winning elections riding on false promises and building castles in the air that are destined to collapse sooner rather than later.”
 
 Pande was speaking at a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organized by the city journalists’ union. Earlier in the day, on his arrival for the first time after getting the new responsibility in the party organization, he was felicitated by the city Congress unit at Devadia Bhavan. Senior leaders like Satish Chaturvedi and Nitin Raut greeted him at a stopover in Mahal as they skipped the Devadia function.
 
 Pande, who keeps away from factional politics of Maharashtra, was, however, hopeful that unity efforts started by party Vice-President Rahul Gandhi, state unit chief Ashok Chavan and AICC in-charge Mohan Prakash would start showing results soon. 
 
 For Pande, who has been holing AICC posts for last 12 years, the Rajasthan responsibility comes at a time when the Congress is finding it an uphill task to win any elections in the country because of the so-called ‘Modi wave.’ “The BJP win in Assam and UP should be seen in the light of rampant poaching it did. In UP, it poached 176 Congress leaders just before elections and offered tickets to 27 of them,” Pande pointed out.
 
 Asked about chances of Rahul Gandhi taking over as party president by this year-end, Pande said it was just a formality as Rahul and Sonia were working in full coordination and even today Rahul was free to take any decision.
 
