ETAWAH: The gleaming roads and glitzy structures speak of a special enclave. Add St Peter’s school, an under-construction Aristotle High School, and Chambal could be an aspirational pocket — like its young mascot who has thrust a makeover on a party that is known for coarse appeals to caste identity and rough and ready methods.

 But if all seems as planned by CM Akhilesh Yadav, walk the streets and listen to the chatter around the district synonymous with Mulayam Singh Yadav’s clan. 
 
 It’s on these roads that house urban clusters and wind into villages set in a rural fastness that Akhilesh faces his most important test.   under him faces hitherto unknown enemies — infi ghting among SP’s Yadav faces, a resurgent BSP which has seemingly got Muslim voters thinking hard, not to talk of BJP waiting to capitalise on the “dividation” of minority votes with its social engineering. 
 
 If the home turf looks unsettled for SP, the reasons are more within than outside. The six-month Yadav household feud, which ended with Akhilesh wresting the mantle from the old guard, marginalised Mulayam and uncle Shivpal. Mulayam’s brother has always been his sword arm here. Shivpal held a vice-like grip on the organisation. Now, his men have revolted. Political workers say infighting has resulted from the supplanting of Shivpal’s loyalists by those of  , another uncle (Mulayam’s cousin) and Akhilesh’s adviser. Hilarious as it is shocking, some dissenters have banded under the banner “Mulayam ke log” (Mulayam’s men), which its chief Sunil Yadav claims is dedicated to the “socialist” ideology of the deposed Yadav chieftain. 
 
 Amid all the commotion, Shivpal has confined himself to campaigning in his   constituency. Three days before polling, the confusion has forced a reassessment of the election. The view is — it’s all in a flux. If Akhilesh’s coup against the Yadav old guard was to soften SP’s overt caste identity, the question is if his “new politics” can trump the fragmentation it has triggered? In the bylanes where people confess the dread of — and profess loyalty to — the Yadav family, Akhilesh emerges as the “innocent” heir. Few have harsh words for him. Those who despise the “family hegemony” blame him only for his association with the household. 
 
 Avinash Chaurasia, a chemist with a brisk business in the main market, is backing Akhilesh, though he concedes that rumblings within may hurt in the short run. “This rough politics isn’t good. You must change with times, with urbanisation, you must craft a new vision,” he says, possibly referring to tales one hears about “land grabbing” and “atrocities” by SP under Akhilesh. In the thick of polls, the churn leads to the thought whether the Yadav scion delayed his “reinvention” too long. As an observer said, “Let us see what happens. This is the belt where SP sweeps the contest.”
 
 
