MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday quashed a nine-year-old criminal case against renowned artist  , who was booked under the ‘anti-blasphemy law’ over an art work of ceramic slippers with images of Gods. A division bench of Justice Ranjit More and Justice Sadhana Jadhav struck down the first information report registered at Colaba   station in 2008. The bench agreed with the Kacker’s lawyers that there was no “deliberate” or “malicious” intent to hurt religious sentiments.

 Kacker, an award-winning ceramic artist, had organised a show at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sanghralaya in September 2008 titled ‘(R)evolution, A Solo Exhibition of New Ceramic’. The exhibition comprised three ceramic and cast glass ‘kharaus’ (slippers) that had images of Hindu and Buddhist gods like Natraj, Gautam Buddha, Shiva, Parvati and Tara. On September 19, 2008, a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena worker Arvind Gawde visited the exhibition and subsequently lodged a complaint at Colaba police station claiming his religious sentiments were hurt. The police confiscated the art works and booked Kacker under section 295 A of the Indian Penal Code (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). The sessions court granted anticipatory bail to Kacker in November 2008. He then approached the high court urging it to strike down the FIR. 
 
 Advocates Abhinav Chandrachud and Sanjay Udeshi, counsels for Kacker said there was no intent or attempt to insult the religion or religious beliefs of people belonging to any strata of society. Neither did the FIR allege it. Advocate Chandrachud told the court that the FIR itself disclosed the ceramic slippers were not prominently displayed and were kept in a corner. The images of the gods could only be seen on close scrutiny and the slippers made of ceramic were not meant to be worn, added the advocate.
 
 The lawyers cited various Supreme Court judgments on the issue, including the April 2017 order quashing the FIR against former India cricket captain M S Dhoni who was being prosecuted for depicting himself as Lord Vishnu on a magazine cover. The SC at the time had held that to prove an   under section 295 A, it had to be shown that the alleged act was done “deliberately” and with “malicious” intent to hurt sentiments.
 
 
