HYDERABAD: A dusty narrow lane with uncleared debris on the road between   and Mangalhat leads to the famous Sitharam Bagh temple.Parts of the compound walls are missing on either side. The entryway leads up to a huge gate with cracks, sadly , reflecting the negligence of this historic religious structure.

 The Sitharam Bagh temple was constructed 185 years ago and has borne silent witness to the transformation of Hyderabad from a princely state to modern Telangana. This magnificent temple is surrounded by a 20-foot high wall, giving it a fortress-like appearance.Though the high wall prevents encroachments, it may not sustain for long, as cracks have developed. The temple as well as its historic wells lie in a state of utter neglect. The roof of the temple is also in a bad shape and may collapse in the future without urgent repairs.
 
 The temple's 'gopuram' (monumental tower) at the entrance of the complex is in decay . It has been craving a facelift for decades now. It sits on two walls that have balconies with European features. It is an impressive collage of elements representative of a myriad of architectural styles including Qutub Shahi, MughalRajput, Kakatiyan and Classical European styles Inside one encounters multiple courtyards, with Chettinad style pillars. After passing through three courtyards, one reaches the sanctum sanctorum, which presents the look of a Spanish villa with a façade that is a blend of Mughal, Rajput and Chettinad design .
 
 Dr AK Ganeriwal, orthopaedic surgeon and great grandson of Seth Puranmal, who built the temple, stays in the temple complex , and maintains it; he performs rituals to the presiding deities , Sri Sita and  . “The temple was built by Seth Puranmal Ganeriwal, a Marwari moneylender, in 1832, a scion of   family . who migrated to Hyderabad from Rajasthan.and set up a financing firm in 1802. He purchased the land for 2,000 gold coins. He played a key role in recovering land revenue from the Berar region and brought in 130 cartloads of money and presented it to the Nizam,“ Dr Ganeriwal, who is also a member of Sri Sitaram Maharaj Sansthan, said.
 
 He said the temple provided shelter to about 5000 people during the   movement in 1948. “The imposing compound wall, huge wooden doorways and the meandering passage served as a sound defence system, to ward off attacks,“he added. Many TV serials are shot on the premises.
 
 A mega step-well located on the temple complex is an architectural marvel. There are six small step wells in the vicinity. Except the   well, the remaining step-wells are still functioning. A centuryold well called Mahadev Ji well located near the Sanctorum is used for pooja and making prasadam. At the eastern corner of the property , an area was set aside for the samadhis of Puranmalji and his son Premsukhdas.
 
 There are 30 rooms inside the temple. A Veda Patasala has trained hundreds of students over the years. The temple is under the control of the Endowments department
 
