Each year during Uttarayan the city's skyline wears a splendid look, dotted with colourful kites, but this spells trouble for thousands of birds that get injured because of the deadly manja. Even though the ban on Chinese manja and lanterns is imposed, its execution remains questionable. And as most of us are getting ready to ‘cut’ each other's kites, some city NGOs are busy gearing up to rescue birds.

 
 Each year volunteers are recruited and briefed by NGOs to get them accustomed to the protocol and given basic tips about handling injured birds. “We rely heavily on volunteers during the festival and are already receiving 40 to 50 birds with minor wounds daily. We have also held a veterinary training program and a workshop on advanced techniques in bird surgery,” says Akanksha Mukherjee, curator at a city based charitable trust which operates on the birds brought in by rescue centres. She adds that there are about 100 in house volunteers who will do actual rescue work, apart from which there are other volunteers to help in outreach activities and spreading awareness. 
 
 
 Even as the NGOs ready their volunteers and become logistically equipped to handle the huge number of birds coming in, prevention remains better than cure. “Each year we reach out to as many people as possible; this year we printed over 5 lakh hand-outs with our helpline number for distribution in schools, colleges and public places like the ongoing flower show at Sabarmati. Between January 13 and 16, we are going to set up 14 camps in areas like Paldi, Sabarmati and Danilimda,” says Bhavesh Shah who works for a rescue group. The group sets up makeshift tents on the main road in these areas and transports the injured birds to hospitals. 
 
 
 
 Each year the number of injured birds keep on increasing, reaching a total of 4000 birds on average. Rajesh Panchal, who runs an NGO that actively works for rescuing birds in the old city, says that this time around one can't see as many kite enthusiasts already, so maybe the number might go down. “But you never know. The point is nobody takes responsibility. We recently nabbed some 400 Chinese manja firkis from Sardarnagar. We do as much as we can with the resources available,” he says. With the rescue centre near Hathijan closed indefinitely due to bird flu scare, other centres expect more work in the coming week. It also means that they need to be careful about injured birds coming in. “You only know whether or not a bird is infected with the flu after testing. NGOs need to be careful while accepting birds and affected birds need to be quarantined immediately so that the disease does not spread," explains Sherwin Everett, a volunteer with a city based NGO. 
 
 
 
 Don’t use strong glass coated manja. 
 Avoid flying kites in the morning from 6 am to 9 am and evening from 4 pm to 7 pm as this is the time birds fly out and fly back home. 
 Chinese lanterns are banned and even if you find them somewhere or have some left from last year, avoid them. The falling flame 
 causes damage to humans, animals and birds alike.
 
 
 Even as you call a helpline number, here are things to keep in mind
 Birds are already scared of humans, on top of that they are injured so you need to be extremely gentle and careful
 If you can handle a bird, use a soft cloth to pick it up and put it in a carton after making little air holes in them
 Keep the bird in a corner, away from potential predators
 Do not pour water, do not feed the bird and do not apply or give any medicine
 If you are comfortable with handling the bird and if it is bleeding heavily, take damp cotton and apply it on the wound with light pressure
 Lastly, please do not play with injured birds, taking photographs and selfies 
 
  
