PATNA: A defiant   ruled out resigning from the Bihar cabinet on Wednesday and asked his critics how he could be a scamster when he was all of 14 years and hadn’t even started sprouting facial hair at the time of the alleged land deal.

 “It’s because of (PM Narendra) Modi and (BJP president Amit) Shah that the CBI has implicated me in the case of 2004. I was 14 or 15 then... moochh bhi nahi aayee thi,” RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son and state deputy CM said, after coming out of a cabinet meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar.
 
 Unfazed by reports of Nitish-led JD(U)’s discomfiture over his continuance in the cabinet as he is an accused in the CBI’s FIR pertaining to an alleged illegal land deal, the 1989-born first-time MLA said he did not have any post at the time of the alleged land deal.
 
 “I haven’t done anything wrong and have worked transparently ever since I joined the government,” Tejashwi said and reiterated that he would not resign and instead go to the people’s court against the conspiracy to frame him, as he had been mandated by the people to be in the government.
 
 Tejashwi said BJP leaders were earlier scared of his father. “Now, they are afraid of a rookie politician belonging to the backward caste because I expose their false promises made to people,” he said and added, “Hum munhtod jawaab denge (we will give a befitting reply).”
 
 This was the first cabinet meet after the CBI raids on July 7 in connection with the alleged transfer of three acres by a hotelier to a firm owned by the Lalu family in lieu of a contract to run IRCTC’s two hotels when Lalu was railway minister.
 
 Tejashwi’s assertion to go to the people’s court is in line with JD(U)’s demand after its executive meet on Tuesday that those facing corruption charges should explain the truth to the people. The JD(U) is also said to have given four days’ time to Tejashwi to come clean on the graft allegations.
 
 Senior RJD leader and finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui said Tejashwi will not resign.
 
 While Tejashwi spoke, Nitish avoided the media waiting for him. The CM has not faced the media since the raids almost a week ago.
 
 
