BHOPAL: In an effort to boost development through road connectivity in Madhya Pradesh, Centre has approved two major expressways, the Chambal Expressway and Narmada Expressway, to connect the state with Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. Centre has also allotted Rs 2 lakh crore for the development of highways of which 2,021km roads will be converted into national highways.

 “It's chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's idea to develop two major express ways, one in Chambal and other connecting cities situated on the bank of river Narmada, up to Ahmedabad. We have approved the plan and asked the government to provide land for alignment'', said Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, on Tuesday.
 
 Gadkari also inaugurated two national highway projects in the state. A 61km two-lane highway in Rajgarh district connecting Biaora town with areas on the Rajasthan border at a cost of Rs 221 crore and a 141.26km Dewas-Biaora four-lane road at a cost of Rs 1,584 crore.
 
 “The Centre will provide Rs two lakh crore to Madhya Pradesh during a period of next two years. On the demand made by chief minister Chouhan, 2,021km long seven different roads in the state will be converted into national highways,” Gadkari told reporters at a press briefing at chief minister's official residence.
 
 He said the Narmada Expressway will begin from Amarkantak and connect the state with Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. Similarly, the Chambal Expressway will connect Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 Admitting lapses on the part of contractors during development of highways, the Union minister claimed new roads were constructed according to international standards and these roads will not develop potholes for next 200-years. “I am ashamed of lapses and delays in the development projects but I assure that the roads being constructed these days will not get damaged or develop potholes for next 200-years’’, said the minister.
 
 He further informed that the transport department was not only concentrating on road construction work but also focusing on developing 20,000-km of inland waterways in the country. 
 
 “In Madhya Pradesh, the waterways will be developed on Chambal, Narmada and Tonk rivers,” he said. 
 
 Earlier, the Gadkari laid the foundation stones for the widening of 85-km long road from Chhatipahad to Khajuraho costing at Rs 920.46-crore, widening with paved shoulder of 44.70-km long road from Angor to Chhatarpur costing Rs178.23-crore and widening of 90-km long road from Sanchi to Sagar worth Rs 287.34-crore at a function in Naugaon of Chhatarpur district.
 
 Chief minister Chouhan said that national highways has approved tenders for quality work and the government has also requested to open 100 driver training centres in the state, which has been approved by the union minister. The government will provide space, training to the drivers and generate employment for youths, he added.
 
 No toll tax exemption for common man 
 
 Union minister Nitin Gadkari denied exemption in toll fee to the public. Replying to a query on waiving toll fee Gadkari said, “Toll fee will not be waived anywhere for anybody. Even journalists will have to pay. If we want to use good quality roads we will have to pay for it,” he reiterated.
 
 On facilities given to MPs and MLAs, whether they will have to pay the toll, the union minister maintained that there is no proposal to impose toll fee on lawmakers. “`The Central government had already made provisions for a toll free access to the lawmakers. All MPs and MLAs were given exemption from toll fee in the rules and I am not going to change the rules'', he said.
 
 
