CHENNAI: In a bid to become the Etsy of vegetables, city-based startup   lets you buy the freshest   directly from the farmer. Ripe, dew-encrusted tomatoes, cauliflower, brinjals, potatoes, corn are getting home-delivered thanks to technology.

 For some farmers, For some farmers like   , of Dindigul, E-Vegetailing is proving a godsend. Reeling under the effects of demonetisation, the farmer made heavy losses from non-movement of goods.
 
 “I had to extend credit as no one has cash on hand. It helps to have an e-platform and online customers,“ said Palaniswamy .
 
 The idea of E-Vegetailing started in June 2014, when Edwin Rajamohan visited the  . “Farmers come there to auction their produce to sellers from Koyambedu. Sellers in turn sell it to other wholesale dealers in Chennai in bulk boxes like 200, 100 and 50. These dealers in turn distribute to warehouses or retail shops, who in sell it to the customer. On average the produce changes hands six times and becomes that much more expensive for customers and farmers, who have to pay a commission to truck loaders," said Rajamohan.
 
 With E-Vegetailing middlemen are eliminated and farmers can get the full market price for their products.“We have to pay a 10% commission to truckers who pick up our goods. Going online has helped our goods fetch better prices at zero commission," Palaniswamy said.
 
 Another differentiater is the startup's revenue model.“We don't charge the farmers, we charge only the customers. So farmers are happy to get onboard our platform. Once customers get a sample of our quality of service, they keep coming back to us," said Rajamohan. E-vegetailing currently has partnered with more than 7,000 farmers across five states - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra - for procurement and distribution. When the company started, it h ad three employees and a handful of pick-up points for vegetables. It now employs 35 people and has 30 procurement centres.
 
 With 20 years of experience in the logistics sector and handing airline cargo, Rajamohan feels that while e-commerce may be a boat everyone is trying to sail on, the difference he brings to the business is his innovations in logistics and professionalism.
 
 A proprietary ownership company since the date of its inception, E-Vegetailing was incorporated in July 2016.Last month, The Chennai Angels invested `1.1 crore in the startup, which hopes to use the capital to build its farmer network, increase procurement points and enhance logistics. “A key issue here is the unorganised nature of how farm produce is brought to stores from farmers, wholesale merchants and dealers. As India moves to a more formal economy, there is great potential in investing in a company like this. E-Vegetailing helps both customers and farmers (there is a lot of wastage, when produce changes multiple hands before reaching the end consumer) but this startup employs the right technology and logistics solutions for door-to-door delivery of vegetables," Aspire Systems CEO and co-founder Gowri Shankar Subramanian said.
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
