NEW DELHI: In a bid to ensure that the benefits of 
  — ranging from   to   and cement — are passed on to consumers, the Centre released on Monday calculations to show how the burden of indirect taxes will come down in the new regime. 

 The detailed analysis from the finance ministry comes days after the   Council, comprising ministers from the Centre and states, decided on product-wise tax rates and the government threatened to invoke the anti-profiteering clause if the gains were not passed on from July, the scheduled date for GST launch. Some manufacturers, such as mobile phone and white goods companies, have suggested that prices may rise once GST kicks in although the government has repeatedly said that in most cases, not only is the burden lower but the advantage of input tax credit — or gains from refunds for taxes paid — will ensure that prices come down. In addition, several cesses and surcharges are going away.
 
 In case of smartphones, the government countered the claim of handset manufacturers and said smartphones currently attracted 2% central excise duty, while   rates varied from state to state and was in the 5-15% range. “Weighted average VAT rate on smartphones works out to about 12%. Thus, the present total tax incidence on smart phones works out to more than 13.5%. As against this, the proposed GST rate for smart phones is 12%,” an official statement said. 
 
 Further,   devices, including surgical instruments, will see a lower tax burden with the GST rate pegged at 12% instead of the current incidence of over 13%, which includes 6% central excise duty and 5% VAT. In addition, companies pay central sales tax, octroi and entry tax, among others. A similar analysis for services is expected in the coming days as several businesses such as telecom and insurance have argued that there will be an increase in tax burden. The Centre believes incidence will come down due to input tax credit for goods being made available to service providers. The government said there will be lower tax burden on medicaments, including Ayurvedic, Unani, Siddha and Homoepathic medicines. 
 
 In general, these products attract 6% central excise duty and 5% VAT apart from CST, octroi and entry tax. All this results in a combined levy of around 13%, while GST has been fixed at 12%. Gains are also expected to accrue to packaged cement, which attracts central excise duty of 12.5% and a specific levy of Rs 125 per metric tonne in addition to VAT of 14.5%. These levies add up to more than 29% and with other taxes, the incidence is over 31%, compared to the GST rate of 28%. The government also said puja samagri, including havan samagri, will be under the ‘nil’ category although the exact formulation is yet to be worked out. The move has been undertaken at the behest of the Uttar Pradesh government which had opposed an 18% levy proposed by officers.
 
