NEW DELHI: BJP’s decision not to give   to sitting   and their family members has come as a big blow to 150-odd party corporators in the three civic bodies. 

 A large number of councillors are upset with the way the party announced its decision as they feel it has sent out a “wrong message that all   councillors are corrupt”. 
 
 A two-time councillor said: “The senior leadership has just strengthened AAP and Congress’ allegation of corruption against BJP councillors. It is a deliberate attempt by the party to clean its image to counter anti-incumbency.” Another councillor added: “A handful of councillors are corrupt. Why punish everyone?”
 
 On Tuesday, several councillors raised the issue before   chief   saying that it was unfair to deny tickets to all. “We told him that the decision to give tickets should be done based on merit. Why will people work, if the party refuses to acknowledge their work,” said a councillor.
 
 There are several BJP members like Subhash Arya, Azad Singh (former Delhi CM Sahib Singh Verma’s brother), Rajesh Gehlot, Yogender Chandolia and   (AAP minister Kapil Mishra’s mother) who have held various positions, from being standing committee chairman to mayor. Absence of seniors from the corporations, party members say, will damage the party in the long run. “You need some senior people in the corporation who can take on the AAP government. Even if BJP is voted to power, the new corporations will not be able to counter the AAP government,” rued a three-time councillor. 
 
 The drastic measure, a   from the south corporation said, will mark the end of political careers of many. There are many two or three-time councillors who have held several key positions in the corporations. Sources say they are unlikely to get a shot at the assembly either.
 
 Some angry councillors said the party’s attempt to implement the Gujarat model will fail in Delhi. “BJP had replaced all sitting councillors with fresh faces in Surat municipal elections in 2005. What worked for Gujarat will not work here. They will end up helping Congress,” said a councillor.
 
 Many are considering contesting as an independent or fielding their spouse or family members. Some threatened rebellion. “If the party gives the ticket to somebody who worked against me in previous election, I will not sit quietly,” said a councillor. In 2012, Praveen Rajput had rebelled against the party when he was denied a ticket, won from Sagarpur East and later rejoined BJP. “In 2012 people decided that I should contest as independent. It they decide this time too, I will take a call,” he told TOI.
 
 In south Delhi, a group of six to seven councillors held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss their course of action. But since the diktat has come from the top, many are reconciled to the decision. They are now eyeing bigger roles in the party. 
 
 Mahinder Nagpal, a three-time councillor, welcomed the decision. “New people should be given a chance and seniors should move on to take bigger responsibility. We are working for the party. I’m a party worker, my commitment is towards the party,” said Nagpal, who has fought four elections since 2012.
 
 Similarly, first-time councillor Ashish Sood said, “This will improve the party’s prospects.” Shailendra Singh Monti, standing committee chairman of south corporation, said, “I have nurtured this ward like my baby for the past 10 years. I will leave it for the sake of the party.”
 
 
