PUNE:   in the city should be made more reliable and cheaper, said leaders across party lines on Sunday at a public discussion organized by citizens’ group Sajag Nagrik Manch.

 The event was organized against the backdrop of civic elections to be scheduled in February 2017.
 
 Politicians, including corporators, presented their agenda on issues like financially viable public transport, 24x7 water supply, the use of flex boards and the criminalisation of politics. They said two-time water supply would be made possible during the next tenure.
 
 “Good public transport is needed. People are not opting for it (public transport) because they don’t have any guarantee about the service. The elected members of my party and also other parties will work to change this. More buses will be made available for the city so that the frequency of buses will increase,” Pune mayor Prashant Jagtap said. He added that steps would be taken to ensure the per kilometre expense of using public transport becomes cheaper than that of two-wheeler.
 
 “The PMC has no control over PMPML. Authorities are not entertaining the elected members of PMC and PCMC. More say should be given in planning and execution of bus services,” said Kishore Shinde, leader of MNS in PMC.
 
 Participants stressed that two-wheelers in the city should be reduced. The city currently has around 25 lakh motorbikes and scooters.  , leader of   (RPI) in PMC, said that issues such as “water transmission losses” should be resolved to provide better water supply to the city. 
 
  “Inadequate traffic planning is causing chaos in the city. A good, well-qualified planner is needed for the city,” city unit chief of   said.
 
 “Not only the ruling party, even the opposition party has equal responsibility to solve the city’s long-pending problem. They should jointly work on dealing with issues of traffic and water. There should be no blame game after elections between the rulers and opposition,” said Jugal Rathi, founder of PMP Pravasi Manch, said.
 
