PUDUCHERRY: Lt governor Kiran Bedi said as an administrator of the Union territory of Puducherry she has exercised the quasi-judicial powers to seek an inquiry by the central vigilance commission into the alleged corruption in the purchase of two houseboats by the previous   government.

 Bedi’s reaction comes a day after chief minister   said a person, who is a part of the administration, sent a complaint to the central vigilance commission without the knowledge of the chief secretary, who is the chief vigilance officer, and the chief minister and tourism minister. He said the government will not be in a position to furnish information to the central vigilance commission as the complainant has not followed due procedure while lodging the complaint.
 
 CVC director Ajay Kanoujia in a communication dated September 20 asked Puducherry chief secretary   to investigate into Bedi's complaint and submit a report to the commission within 12 weeks. Parida told TOI he would independently inquire into the issue and submit a report directly to central vigilance commission "without being influenced by the chief minister and the lt governor”.
 
 Bedi, in the complaint to central vigilance commission K V Chowdry, alleged irregularities in the tendering process to procure two houseboats by the previous AINRC government. She said the Puducherry tourism development corporation floated e-tender through M/s Keonics website, ‘www.tenderwizard.com/PTDC’ on April 6, 2015. But the chief vigilance officer directed the corporation to withdraw the tender and asked it to invite bids through the e-procurement port of the government.
 
 The corporation, however, did not heed to chief vigilance officer’s direction and went ahead with its proposal. The   cancelled the contract with M/s Keonics. The corporation held a review meeting on May 28, 2015, and resolved to go for re-tender. Bedi said the corporation issued purchase order dated March 1, 2016, at a cost of Rs 1,15,22,000 based on the e-tender floated on April 6, 2015.
 
 "The other glaring irregularity is that the supply order has been placed at a cost higher than that quoted in the e-tender as reflected in the comparative statement,” she said.
 
 She also pointed out that the purchase order did not have any terms and conditions on the technical specifications and liability clause that are part and parcel of such high-value purchase. "Prima facie case is made out of a serious irregularity in the purchase of two boats by the PTDC calling for further investigation into the matter,” she said urging the CVC to investigate and recommend disciplinary and criminal action based on the findings of the investigations.
 
