Nagpur: Missing iconic tiger Jai and the electrocution of its offspring Srinivas on April 19 has once again brought to light how misuse of power transmission lines is pushing tigers to death in the landscape between Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary (UKWS) & Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). According to sources involved in research, tigers in the entire landscape are in danger from linear projects like roads, canals, transmission and railway lines. They TOI that Jai and Srinivas from UKWS were always vulnerable to electrocution as they used the same corridor patches, which has a sphere of 45-60 km-long transmission lines in their 380 sqkm home range. “These lines range between 765 kV and 220 kV. The last locations of both the collared tigers have been reported to be 200-400 metres from the 765 kV transmission line,” said the sources. Even Jai’s second offspring Bittu’s home range has 61-km-long power lines in Bramhapuri division criss-crossing his home range at eight different places. Sources said they have identified four vulnerable road spots which are crossed by tigers regularly. Tigers use these road crossing zones almost on a daily basis. Talking to TOI, MSEDCL executive engineer YD Meshram, who has jurisdiction over the forested landscape areas like Nagbhid, Paoni, Pathri, Saoli, Bramhapuri, Sindewahi, Karwa and other places, said, “It is very difficult to nail the accused if he misuses domestic power connection for some illegal purpose.” “In case of Srinivas, the power line did not trip as the farm owner had tampered the line by drawing current from his personal power connection. There are provisions under Electricity Act to book people for unauthorized power use but not misuse. Hence, the accused Mahadev Irpate was not booked,” Meshram said. “Providing chain link fencing to farmers can help solve the problem. Along with forest department, MSEDCL staff should also do regular patrolling to check misuse,” said wildlife conservationist Uday Patel. However, Prafulla Bhamburkar demanded action against MSEDCL officials for not registering any offence against Irpates. “To avoid electrocution, tower alignment should be parallel with roads or the height of towers needs to be increased,” he added. Apart from MSEDCL, forest officials too have turned a blind eye to NTCA guidelines issued on January 30, 2013, by not prioritizing the area where Srinivas was moving. As per guidelines, they should deploy special monitoring teams around highways, open wells, railway tracks, electrical transmission lines, village ponds, natural water holes, irrigation canals to monitor tigers. “It is high time state government think about different policies and monitoring system to save remaining dispersing tigers from being electrocuted,” said Suresh Chopne, MoEFCC’s regional environment committee (REC) member. 