KOLKATA: The   has found a simple way to circumvent the Supreme Court’s ruling banning   off shops within 500 metres of state and national highways. It has decided to issue on-shop licences to all existing   situated within 500 metres of highways. 

 An ‘off shop’ is essentially a retail outlet that just sells liquor; an ‘on shop’ allows consumption of the liquor on its premises. Bars and restaurants are examples of on shops.
 
 While excise department officials wouldn’t come on record on the policy change, Pincon Spirit Limited, one of the largest retailers of liquor in the state, has written to the National Stock Exchange, informing it of the Bengal government’s decision. “This decision of the Bengal government has extinguished any apprehension of negative impact on the sales volume of PSL,” an official of Pincon Spirit said on Monday.
 
 The state government’s decision is based on a clarification issued by Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi on the Supreme Court’s December 15 order. Rohatgi had said the   order was applicable only to liquor shops along highways and not bars and restaurants. Besides Bengal, other states are also thinking of taking advantage of this loophole. 
 
 Bengal has around 1,800 off-shops within 500 metres of highways. Besides employing over 10,000 people, these outlets generate over Rs 1,000 crore in revenue for the state. State government officials admitted that closing down liquor vends along highways would have had an adverse impact on the state’s revenue. They said the on-licences would be issued to the off-shops from April 1, the deadline set by the apex court to close down   liquor vends. 
 
 An off-shop owner near Dankuni said the Bengal government’s decision would save the livelihood of 25,000 people involved in the liquor trade along highways. 
 
 It may be noted that the excise department has also decided to renew the licences of liquor wholesalers and bonders for another four months to ensure that there is no supply bottleneck in the market. The decision followed a meeting between liquor wholesalers and top officials of the state finance and excise department last week. The prospect of a shortage in supply arose when the government formed the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation to take over the wholesale trade of IMFL and country spirits from April. The uncertainty over the past month had led to shortage of premium and semi-premium liquors in the market. 
 
 
