NEW DELHI: Chief Justice of India J   expressed anguish on Wednesday over lack of judges in the  , which is hampering its functioning and increasing pendency of cases, but assured that new judges would soon be appointed to deal with the problem.

 The total sanctioned strength of judges in the Supreme Court is 31, including the CJI, and there are eight vacancies of judges, meaning that the apex court is working with only 75% of its strength. “We are so short of judges that it is difficult to manage day-to-day affairs of the Supreme Court,” Justice Khehar said when senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan pleaded to the   for an early hearing on a suit filed by the Odisha government.
 
 “Let me first increase strength of judges, then we will sort it out. By the end of the month, we can expect new judges in the court,” he said, virtually admitting that his hands are tied due to shortage of judges and cannot assure early hearing of the case.
 
 The Chief Justice hinted that he would soon convene a meeting of the collegium to finalise names which would be forwarded to the Centre for appointment as judges of the  .
 
 The appointment process has been hampered due to the tussle between the   over the Memorandum of Procedure for appointment of judges in the aftermath of SC verdict quashing the National Judicial Appointments Commission and reviving the collegium system.
 
 As per the latest report, there are 60,938 cases pending in the SC till September 2016. In 2016, 59,386 cases were filed in the SC while the court disposed of 57,720 cases last year.
 
 Last year four judges—Justices A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and L Nageswara Rao —were appointed in the SC while six judges---Justices M Y Eqbal, F M I Kalifulla, C Nagappan, Gopala Gowda, Shiva Kirti Singh and A R Dave —demitted office after retirement. Former CJI T S Thakur retired on January 3, taking the total number of vacancies to 8. The strength of SC over the years has not increased in proportion to thenumber of cases filed in the apex court.
 
 The SC started with only eight judges but the strength was increased five times over the years and in 2009, it was increased to 31. Many former judges had admitted in open court that they were suffering from “burnt-out” syndrome because of the workload.
 
