BENGALURU:   Siddaramaiah is setting out to score sixers in his upcoming budget that is expected to be designed purely with the 2018 state assembly elections in mind.

 In fact, he gave an indication of his intent while addressing legislators recently on the state economy’s growth rate, he said: “I don’t often play games, but when I do, I score sixes."
 
 With the BJP trying to up the ante against him by making allegations of “fund-raising” for the  , Siddaramaiah, who holds the finance portfolio, is banking on shoring up his image by injecting a higher dose of populism in the 2017-18 budget that he will present next month. This will also be his 12th budget – a first for a politician in Karnataka.
 
 Sources close to the CM told The Times of India that two factors are propelling him to go on an overdrive: One, the union budget presented by Arun Jaitley was a bit bland for the masses. Two, a populist budget will become the talking point and give him the first-mover advantage with regard to kickstarting poll campaign. 
 
 Sources said that the priority areas this year would be alleviating the distress being faced by farmers in the worst drought year the state has seen in over four decades. Siddaramaiah would also focus on his favourite areas of health and education, which he has often called the engines of social change. While the recent spate of incidents against women has also brought the CM’s attention towards increased efforts for safety, focus will also be on creating more job opportunities for youth.
 
 A senior IAS officer said: “Though department-wise pre-budget discussions will start from February 27, instructions have been issued to the officials to scout for innovative ideas that will have mass appeal and are realistic.” This apart, Siddaramaiah has convened a meeting with farmers’ groups in Bengaluru on Thursday to know their demands and suggestions.
 
 A specialist in social engineering, Siddaramaiah feels that a populist budget would checkmate his political detractors and become the trump card to win over the voters. That is precisely why Siddaramaiah has chosen to shelve the conventional political strategy of making more promises in the last budget (in this case it has be in 2018-19) and instead fire on all cylinders with the 2017-18 budget. Sources explained: “The strategy is very simple. He will make budgetary promises and also ensure there is some action. Voters will get to see before their eyes as to what is unfolding and take a call favourably instead of being swayed by poll rhetoric.” 
 
 But can Siddaramaiah afford a populist budget in the time of drought and demonetisation? Siddaramaiah seemed to optimistic. He told the legislative council on Tuesday: “We are the number one in revenue collection among the southern states. Though our economy was affected because of demonetization and drought, the growth rate has been a good 13.9 per cent (up to January 2017). Our financial management has been good despite the drought condition in the state.”
 
