GURUGRAM: For nearly six months now, the corridor has been the classroom for scores of kids at a government-run primary school. Day after day, kids as young as four have had no desk to sit but the hard floor, exposed to hot winds, dust and, of late, rain spraying into their makeshift classroom. Besides their first lessons in alphabets and numbers, these kids are being asked to learn a lot more. 

 In their rightful place, meanwhile, sit stacks of old, broken furniture and sundry items, and textbooks belonging to the block education office meant for disbursal across Gurugram. Two of the six classrooms this primary school, just 500 metres from mini-secretariat - the seat of the Gurugram administration - has are serving as godowns for the education department. 
 
  "The remaining four classrooms too are very small. Some of the classes have more than 70 students and they do not fit in one room," Om Prakash, principal of the Government   Primary School, told TOI on Saturday. 
 
 The latest shocker from the government's education system comes after instances of students sitting on the floor for board exams and of a toilet being converted into a classroom (for a sociology MA class at   in 2014) because there wasn't enough money to build more classrooms.
 
 The Shivaji Nagar primary school shares the two-acre campus with two other schools - Government Middle School-Shivaji Nagar and Government Primary School-Om Nagar. "Over a month ago, the water tank became dysfunctional. Then, last Thursday, water supply from the civic body stopped. I had to request MCG to dispatch a tanker to cater to the children's needs," said Prakash.
 
 For the 210 children who study at the Shivaji Nagar primary school, there is just one toilet, which remains soiled and stinky because there is no sanitation worker to regularly clean it up. "I spend Rs 1,400 from my pocket every month to get the toilet cleaned," said Prakash.
 
 The principal wrote a letter (a copy of which is with TOI) to block education officer Sushil Gaur on July 6, apprising him of the school's problems.   elementary education officer Ram Kumar Phalaswal said he was aware of the situation and claimed to have directed the principal to auction off the stuff in the classrooms. "If they need my permission, I will give it," he said. Asked if he was aware of the situation, Rao Narbir Singh, MLA from Gurgaon's Badshapur constituency and a cabinet minister in the   regime, promised action in two days. 
 
