NEW DELHI: With a 17-gun salute and a 'missing man' fly past, 
  was on Monday laid to rest with the highest military and state honours.

 Singh's mortal remains were earlier borne on a gun carriage and taken to Delhi's   for the ceremonial honours and the last rites. The cortege was wrapped in the tricolour and decorated with flowers. 
 
 The procession on the 8-km journey from his   residence to Brar Square in the Delhi cantonment area included an Air Force band.
 
 As tribute to Singh, the national flag is being flown at half-mast on all of Delhi's government buildings on Monday.
 
 Singh, India's oldest, 
  died on Saturday after suffering a heart attack. He was 98.
 
 He was the 
  to be given a distinction equal to that of a Field Marshal.
 
 In 2016, the   named its Panagarh ( ) air base after Singh on the occasion of his 97th birth anniversary. The Panagarh base would come to be called Air Force Station  . He was the only living officer to have a base named after him.
 
 
 
 
  
  and his zest for flying didn't wane until the day he retired in 1969.
 
 When he was Chief of Air Staff, the IAF acquired supersonic fighters, strategic reconnaissance aircraft, tactical transport aircraft and assault helicopters, many of which are still in service today.
 
 Born on 15 April 1919 in Lyallpur, Punjab (now in Pakistan), Arjan Singh entered the distinguished Royal Air Force College at Cranwell at the age of 19 and graduated as a pilot officer the following year.
 
 He proved his valour during the Second World War, when he faced the Japanese Army while serving as a pilot officer in the British-Indian forces in Burma (now Myanmar). He received the Distinguished Flying Cross for "fearless and exceptional" service in 1944.
 
 
 
 
 Singh served as the IAF's Chief of Staff during the 1965 India-Pakistan war. When Pakistan launched its Operation Grand Slam, in which an armoured thrust targeted the vital town of Akhnur, he was summoned into the defence minister's office with a request for air support.
 
 With characteristic nonchalance, he replied, "In an hour." And true to his word, the air force struck the Pakistani offensive in an hour. He was awarded the Padma Vibhushan for his leadership of the IAF and his service to the nation during the historic war. 
 
 After his retirement from the   in 1969, Singh served the nation as an ambassador to Switzerland in 1971, and to Kenya in 1974. Later, he also became the Lt Governor of Delhi, in 1989.
 
 He was promoted to the five-star rank in 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
