NAGPUR: A month after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) launched the segregation of dry and wet garbage on World Environment Day, June 5, it has achieved only 1.27% success. Against the city’s generation of 1,100 metric tonne garbage, NMC’s health department, through private firm Kanak Resources Management Limited, is collecting only 5.510 metric tonne of wet waste and 8.530 metric tonne of dry waste in segregated condition every day.

 A senior health officer admitted that the project is yet to gain momentum in the city.
 
 Statistics procured from NMC’s health department show that on an average   zone produces 155 MT garbage per day, followed by 116 MT in Dharampeth zone, 110 MT in Hanuman Nagar, 94 MT in Dhantoli, 107 in Nehru Nagar, 120 in Gandhibagh, 98 MT in  , 127 in Lakadganj, 107 in Ashi Nagar and 125 in   zones. On an average, city generates 1,100 MT garbage per day.
 
 So far, NMC has managed to start pilot work at 35 localities in 10 zones, though Kanak has prepared 574 trolley rickshaws and 40 vehicles by dividing the loading area into two separate chambers for dry and wet garbage.
 
 From June 5, NMC had started the process of distributing free dustbins to residents in two colours — green for wet waste and blue for dry waste.
 
 Citizens who want to get dustbins for free should submit an application on www.nmcnagpur.gov.in. For successful distribution of bins, NMC has also set up special centres at its 10 zonal offices to help people who cannot apply online. “So far, till July 18, NMC received applications for 4,653 dustbins only out of over 5.3 lakh property owners, and they were given the bins,” said the officer.
 
 Most of the areas where segregation of dry and wet waste has been launched are housing societies.
 
 On Wednesday, Team TOI visited many localities and found that not only residents but also the garbage lifters and sanitary workers are continuing with the old system of dumping dry waste and wet waste together. Residents claim hardly anything is being done on the ground. They also claimed that awareness about segregation of waste is also not being created by the civic body.
 
 NMC has tied up with city-based NGO Centre For Sustainable Development (CSD) and launched awareness programmes in West Nagpur. CSD director Leena Budhe said they are targeting slum-dwellers as women from these areas work as maidservants. “So, we are educating them first,” she said.
 
 According to her, NMC should first ensure two separate dustbins at every source of garbage, and lay stress on segregation of waste at source.
 
 An NMC officer said they are expecting to start complete segregation by the end of this year. “According to rules, the civic body has authority to collect fines, which we will now start imposing if don’t get support from citizens,” the official said.
 
 
