NAGPUR: A survey by the   students has revealed that not even a small percentage of retailers use the electronic payment systems (EPS) systems for transactions. It was conducted in 14 talukas of Nagpur district and in the city too where 670 retailers were questioned. The results of the survey are contrary to the government’s observations.

 Even the much-hyped Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) application, promoted in a big way by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is being used by just 2% of the retailers. Since its launch in December last year, only 25% persons have claimed to have even heard of it. The PM had termed the   app as a revolutionary one while launching its Aadhaar-based version at Nagpur on April 14.
 
 It was observed that only 37.7% retailers resorted to plastic money which includes debit/credit cards and mobile wallet-PayTM, but very few are actually using it for payments. Debit cards are mostly preferred option for majority of them for EPS, while cash still rules the roost in district. About 65.30% of them prefer debit card instead of credit.
 
 Conducted by Pranav Choubey, Abhijit Khopde, Sneha Deo and Siddhant Deshbhratar under the guidance of professor  , the survey was spread over 15 days. The objective was to examine the impact of digitalization and analyse the ‘Acceptance of EPS’ while the population is emerging from demonetization.
 
 According to them, many hawkers, street vendors and small shopkeepers in Nagpur, Koradi, Saoner, Kamptee showcase a ‘Paytm’ board indicating a thumbs up for cashless transaction, but they are rarely using it. Additionally, though 44.34% of them have knowledge of using EPS only 37.70% are actually using it. About 27.60% don’t know about EPS.
 
 About 64.55% of the retailers think that using EPS is secure, but a majority of them they don’t use. Of them, 35.44% don’t feel it secure to use EPS owing to threats like hacking or cyber attacks. On other hand, 74.81% of retailers have a perception that cash handling problem has been reduced due to advent of EPS.
 
 Pharmacist Parag Belorkar said that he has placed an order for a POS (Point of Sale) machine as a backup plan for paper money. “Customers ask for swiping cards only if they have to pay a big amount. Non-availability of cashless means did not cause major hindrance for business yet.” 
 
 Payments through debit cards reach up to 20% till January but now have declined again to 5% while usage of mobile apps is negligible at petrol pumps, revealed president of  , Harvinder Bhatia. “People are wise enough to understand the taxes levied on the card payments and don’t wish their money to go waste. Moreover the process of cash exchange is swifter and easy.”
 
 He added that at least two cases of failed transactions were reported at his pump due to poor Internet infrastructure in the country and they were unable to to implement cashless methods in full force. 
 
 According to the surveyors, 75% of retailers are fairly acquainted with Internet facility and use it for browsing and socializing, but are hesitant to make payments as they find it inconvenient.
 
