Mumbai: News of a   by the Indian Army along the Indo-Myanmar border against Naga insurgents, which later turned out to be retaliatory fire by the army, spooked the already fragile investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Wednesday. The   sank by 1.4% (440 points) in late trades. During the intra-day session, the sensex was down more than 500 points to a near three-month low, but it recovered after the government clarified about the real picture on the ground along the Indo-Myanmar border.

 The day’s slide also left investors poorer by more than Rs 6 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 136 lakh crore.
 
 Banking stocks led the slide with the sectoral index sliding down 1.7%. Market players said signs of a weakening fiscal situation and the government’s decision to go for a fiscal stimulus are making investors jittery about banks, especially the public sector ones. As a result, the PSU bank index on the NSE has lost 7% in the last one week.
 
 In the same period, foreign fund managers have been aggressively selling stocks in India since they find valuations stretched relative to other emerging markets. The US Fed’s decision to pare its $4.2-trillion book is also forcing global investors to opt for less-risky assets, called risk-off trades in market parlance.
 
 In a note, BNP Paribas Mutual Fund’s senior fund manager (equities) Karthikraj Lakshmanan said that market participants are selling relatively risky assets like emerging market equities after the US Fed signalled the possibility of an interest rate hike before the end of the year.
 
 On Wednesday, BSE data showed foreign funds were net sellers at Rs 856 crore. Although domestic funds were net buyers at more than double of what foreign funds sold, at Rs 1,858 crore, market players said that was not enough to slow down the recent slide in the market. 
 
 During the day,   was listed on the bourses to become the first non-life insurer in the country to go public. After a tepid start, it closed 4% higher than its IPO price of Rs 661.
 
 Among the top laggards were   (down 4.9%),   (-2.9%) and   (-2.5%). Of the 30 sensex stocks, only two — TCS and Coal India — closed higher with gains of less than 1% each.
 
 
