CHANDIGARH: The   on Thursday witnessed bedlam over Delhi University student Gurmehar Kaur issue, with the main opposition party Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) demanding an apology from state health minister   over his tweet that those who support her anti-ABVP campaign should be sent to Pakistan.

 The issue was raised during the ongoing budget session by INLD leader Jaswinder Singh Sandhu. Speaker Kanwar Pal Gujjar, however, expunged the entire discussion from the proceedings. 
 
 However, later interacting with mediapersons, the politicians repeated their statements. Responding to INLD's demand, Vij told reporters that he stood by his tweet and stated that if INLD was supporting her then the party was also anti-national.
 
 
 
 
 Leader of opposition Abhay Chautala and Sandhu condemned the threat of rape issued to Gurmehar. Both said such reaction on views expressed by Gurmehar was an insult to her father who had made supreme sacrifice for the country immediately after the Kargil war.
 
 Chautala called for an unconditional apology from Vij. The minister said he stood by his views and reiterated that Gurmehar had become a tool in the hands of anti-national forces.
 
 Though INLD leaders condemned rape threat to Gurmehar, the party also did not endorse her views and termed her statement as “views of an immature college-going girl”.
 
 Abhay Singh added that instead of threatening and criticizing her in this manner, Gurmehar should have been given an advice by the BJP government.
 
 On Wednesday, Vij had tweeted, “Those who are supporting Gurmehar Kaur are all pro-Pakistan. Such people have no right to live in India and they should be thrown out of the country.”
 
 Defending his stand, Vij told the reporters that he was against Gurmehar’s clean chit to Pakistan. “She had become a tool in the hands of anti-national powers and cannot be supported and entitled to any sympathy. Either she does not understand the issue or is part of the lobby that is anti-national,” the minister said. He, however, added that rape threats to the girl were wrong and he condemned such intimidation.
 
 Gurmehar had started a campaign on social media against   following the incident of violence at Ramjas College in Delhi. After being trolled and receiving rape threats, she withdrew from the campaign and returned to her home in Jalandhar town of Punjab.
 
 
