BENGALURU: About 5,000 people joined a protest rally against the murder of Gauri Lankesh from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna railway station to   on Tuesday morning, asserting that they will not be silenced by such killings.

 The rally, organized by the   Against The Assassination of Gauri Lankesh, started around 11am from the railway station and culminated at the   Grounds at 12.30 pm.
 
 Concerned citizens began descending at the railway station around 9am. Students from various colleges, including National Law School of India University , trade union members, college teachers, activists, workers from Dalit organizations, CPI, CPM and CPM-L joined in. People from all parts of the state as well as neighbouring states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and   congregated.
 
 Bands on their heads proclaimed "I am Gauri".As crowds swelled, pictures of the smiling slain journalist were all over the place: on badges, headbands, wristbands and placards. "We are all Gauri," the sloganeers shouted as the rally started.
 
 Gaarudi Gombe folk dancers danced to the drumbeats.A few cultural troupes sang revolutionary songs to the accompaniment of music as the rally progressed.
 
 Waving red and blue flags, the rallyists condemned Gauri's killers, shouted slogans against the   and RSS, holding them responsible for her murder. They demanded that her killers be arrested soon.
 
 Police had made an elaborate security arrangement for the rally, with DCPs SD Sharanappa and Chethan Singh Rathod monitoring it.
 
 Traffic was interrupted on Seshadri Road for a few minutes. The traffic police stopped the vehicle movement on the road between 11am and 12.30 pm, causing a massive jam near Ananda Rao Junction, Race Course Road, and Goods Shed Road.
 
 The organizers had arranged food and water for the protesters at the Central College Grounds.
 
 An issue of Gauri Lankesh tabloid was released at the public meeting. The front page of the obituary edition read "Nanna Dani Adaguvudilla" (my voice won't be silenced).
 
