MYSURU: The  , teaching hospital attached to the   (MMCRI) of the city will soon have a  . This centre will train the parents of children with mental and   of such kids beside providing physiotherapy, occupational therapy and other medical support to the needy children.

 According to Dr Rajendra Kumar, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, MMCRI, this centre will have full-fledged facilities including equipment to treat the children with physical and mental disabilities. "Presently, we have a small such centre in the department without any major equipment. We are providing counselling support to the parents of children with special needs. But now the tender process has been completed to develop a full-fledged centre which will come up in a separate building in the premises of Cheluvamba hospital," he said.
 
 "This centre will have a multidisciplinary team to provide rehabilitation and counselling support to both children with special needs and their parents. This includes physiotherapy, occupational therapy, psychiatrists, ortho surgeons etc," he explained.
 
 "Presently a clinical psychologist from psychiatry department, physiotherapist, counsellors and orthopaedic surgeons from the KR hospital and paediatrician from our department are visiting the existing centre. But it is not full-fledged. So we are providing only counselling support to the parents and the needy children. But new centre will come up in a renovated building where all the facilities will be made available under the single roof," he explained.
 
 According to the health department sources, proposed full-fledged Child Rehabilitation Center expected to help hundreds of needy children and parents not only from Mysuru but also from neighbouring districts. "Mysuru city already has one District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) at JP nagar. This centre was set up under the centre’s ambitious Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK). DEIC has all the facilities for the early detection of various growth-related issues among the children and adolescents. So, both these centres will help the needy parents and children full-fledged medical and counselling supports," he said.
 
 "Originally DEIC was also proposed at Cheluvamba hospital only. But due to the space related issue, it was shifted to JP Nagar," he concluded.
 
