KOCHI: The murder of   techie   in Pune was a wake-up call for many techies in the city who have now started a campaign to improve the safety, especially for women. 

 To begin with, they have started an   to figure out the security status of techies here. According to a   community which launched the survey, 150 techies have already registered their views within a span of two days.
 
 “We have not asked participants to reveal their identities. Most suggestions that we got were regarding women’s safety. Many have made requests to their companies to exempt women from late-night shifts. Another request was to assign a supervisor during weekend shifts so that women employees won’t be alone,” said   who is part of a group of IT professionals called Progressive Techies.
 
 Many of those who took the survey were of the opinion that the security guards at the IT park should be given guidelines or coaching on dealing with techies. “Though there are many manual labourers inside the park, there is not much of a verification process for many of them. There should be proper guidelines issued to them about the work environment,” said Swathy K S, an employee with an IT firm.
 
 Anand, another techie, reiterated that there should be strict checking on labourers and contract workers. “A labourer getting nabbed from the women’s washroom of LuLu cyber tower at Infopark points to the need for proper background check,” said Anand.
 
 The online survey – Are you secure? – lists a few specific questions following a space for generic suggestions.
 
 Over 90% of the respondents maintained that they were happy with the behaviour of their colleagues. The response to the safety standard for cab services provided by the companies were meanwhile mixed with 50% saying that they were happy with the service.
 
 While over 60% of the voters were well aware about the pink patrol service, the rest were clueless. The organizers are planning to approach authorities with the compiled data from the survey after keeping it online for another week. Techies can access the Google doc link from the Facebook page of Progressive Techies.
 
 Rasila Raju O P from Kozhikode was strangled to death by a security guard on the ninth floor of Infosys facility in phase II of the Hinjewadi IT park near Pune.
 
