The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has found that Malayalam film associations   (Association of Malayalam Movie Artists) and   (Film Employees’ Federation of Kerala) guilty of conducting unfair trade practices by imposing a ban on director Vinayan and, actors, technicians and producers who worked with him. 

 In its order on Friday, the CCI has slapped a fine to the tune of ` 11. 25 lakhs on the organisations and its office bearers — AMMA’s president Innocent and its general secretary Idavela Babu and FEFKA officials Sibi Malayil,   and K Mohanan.
 The commission observed: “It is apparent how these associations affect the free and fair competition in the market and create hurdles for those who do not mend their ways to work as per the whims and fancies of these associations. Their mightiness is also reflected by the fact that even renowned actors and players in the industry are not able to ignore or disregard their demands.”(sic)
 
 The commission specifically found that anti-competitive conduct of FEFKA was carried on with the knowledge of Sibi Malayil and Unnikrishnan. 
 The commission noted: “Such anti-competitive practices have had an adverse effect on the Malayalam film industry. The commission found the impugned decisions and practices of the organisations and their office-bearers to be in contravention of Section-3(3) of the Competition Act-2002.” (sic)
 With regard to Innocent, the commission stated: “He was the president of the association and it is improbable that any decision could have been taken without his concurrence or active involvement. His active involvement in the meetings as cited above further supports inference, which is sufficient to trigger the liability.” (sic)
 This order is a significant one as it would make the mighty film organisations of Malayalam cinema accountable for their actions.
 Kochi Times finds out the reactions on the landmark order from the parties involved. 
 
 There is a movement in Mollywood in which associations try to do away with people whom they don’t like
 
 
 
 It’s in 2008 that FEFKA and AMMA jointly banned me, against which I approached the CCI in 2014. Finally, truth has triumphed! I am really happy. Yes, the ban against me cost me eight valuable years of my career, especially at a time when I was experimenting with movies.
 I don’t know what I did to become their enemy. There is a movement in Mollywood in which associations and the big names try to do away with people whom they don’t like. This mentality can ruin our industry.
 
 I also condemn the act of these associations spending huge amounts for this case, using lawyers from Delhi who charge lakhs of rupees for a few hours in the court. Meanwhile, my case was presented by lawyers who are my friends, charging nothing. B Unnikrishnan and Sibi Malayil should resign from FEFKA, taking moral responsibility for spending huge money on a case that they lost.
 
 I hear that Unnikrishnan said that they are moving for an appeal, but I am confident that it stands no chance of winning, as High Court has already dismissed their plea thrice. I dedicate this positive verdict to the memories of actor Thilakan, who also meted out harassment at their hands.
 Though I feel the penalty charged is very less and I can again go for appeal, I don’t want to do so as I am content with the decision.
 
 
 
 We will all have to discuss before we make any comment on the order. We will plan the future course of action after our meeting.
 
 
 
 We haven’t received the order yet. Once we receive it, within 60 days, we will be filing an appeal as we feel that our contentions haven’t been addressed by the Commission. There are some fundamental issues at stake here. The judgment has some grave implications for the entire labour movements in India. Trade union issues are expected to be addressed within the ambit of the Trade Union Act. But, unfortunately, here labour is being treated as a commodity or a ‘marketable service.’ Hence we will file an appeal once we receive the judgment.
 
