VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when cops are preparing to ensure the peaceful passing off of the   slated to happen on January 27-28, they received a jolt from the blue in the form of a   call for   at RK Beach on January 26. 

 Inspired by the agitation of the youth at Marina Beach, Chennai, for Jallikatu, the people of Andhra Pradesh took to the social media and called for a silent protest at RK Beach in Vizag. According to sources, more than 20,000 to 25,000 youth from north Andhra and Godavari districts are expected to participate in the protest. Opposition leader Jaganmohan Reddy, Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan and Left parties have extended their support to the agitation.
 
 However, cops claim that no one has applied for permission for the protest at RK Beach. Incidentally, YSRCP had planned a candlelight rally on the evening of Republic Day at RK Beach, but cops did not give permission to that rally either.
 
 “No permission will be given even if the organisers of the silent agitation apply now. A red alert has been sounded across the country on Republic Day and we do not want to give any chance to anti-social elements,” said city police commissioner T Yoganand. 
 
 According to sources, the state government had planned to deploy Octopus ( ) and the anti-naxal elite force Greyhounds during the Partnership Summit. However, in view of the protests on Republic Day, the government may assign them duties from January 25. Two platoons each would be pressed into action, the sources said. In other preventive steps, RK beach would be shut down for visitors on Republic Day, the sources said. Cops are likely to deploy check posts at various junctions in the city on that day. Surveillance cameras would also be used to identify agitators and restrictions would be imposed to ensure crowd control. 
 
 “If anybody wishes to organise a silent protest or rally, they should choose another day and seek the permission of the cops as per   guidelines,” said district collector Pravin Kumar. 
 
 Speaking to media persons, both the collector and CP appealed to school, college and university managements and parents to ensure that students do not indulge in such protests. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jana Sena leader K Satish told TOI that they are also trying to restrict it into a silent peaceful march. “We have been appealing to the Jana Sena cadre from other districts not to come here for the protest but they appear to be adamant,” he said. 
 
 
