PUNE: A myopic   plans on cutting up   and looking the other way when it comes to conservation bring to fore questions about how the city will end up losing all its biodiversity. 

 Pune, home to over 31 lakh citizens as per the census in 2011, is now increasingly at the forefront of the pressing environmental challenges.
 
 Its tekdis (low hills) are under intense pressure due to constructions and encroachment that rob them of green cover which in a domino effect have impacted its weather.
 
 Experts and citizens are of the view that these hills which support their own biodiversity, must be restored and enriched. 
 
 In August 2015, the state had issued a notification disallowing any construction on hilltops and slopes to protect the biodiversity parks (BDPs) in the 23 merged villages. 
 
 While the government has placed the responsibility on the civic body, asking it to take care of the parks, elected members across party lines want the BDPs scrapped.
 
 Experts said, once scrapped, the hilltops would be open for private development.
 
 The civic body, on its part, has planned plantation of saplings and proposed the development of hilltops in Parvati and Taljai, amounting to 160 acres.
 
 It has also taken up joint funding of forest management projects at Pachgaon Parvati, Bhamburda hill and Warje on about 812.5 acres. These projects include walling of the protected areas, security, water supply management, plantation, setting up of parks. Monday is Biodiversity Day.
 
 No gains in cutting down hills, say   
 
  Excavating a hill will lead to landslides like it happened in Malin village, experts from the Geological Survey of India said. “Such excavations will disturb the natural flow of rainwater and if water gets stored on the top of the hill, it will percolate into it which will affect soil stability causing landslides,” they added. 
 
 Huge machines like earth movers, rock cutters and blasting would be a greater threat to the eco-system of the hill. 
 
  is difficult and may lead to flooding in episodes of extreme rainfall. Tree cutting also affects soil stability. Indiscriminate cutting of hills causes aquifers or water pools in between the basaltic hill structure to become exposed leading to evaporation of water. 
 
 (With inputs from 
 
 Sandip Dighe)
 
