Kochi: The high court has stayed implementation of an order issued by the labour commissioner for paying wages of estate workers through banks instead of paying in cash.

 Considering a petition filed by Devikulam Estate Workers’ Union (AITUC), the court has asked for continuing with the earlier system where an estate owner was to hand over a cheque for the amount required for   to the district collector, who would encash it from the district treasury and return the cash to the estate owner for paying the wages. Such a system was introduced in November last year following the shortage of cash due to demonetisation.
 
 The estate workers were being paid on the 10th of every month in cash but the labour commissioner issued an order by the end of December asking chief inspector of plantations to ensure that all workers have bank accounts for the purpose of disbursement of salary for December. Following this, Association of Planters of Kerala had issued a circular on January 3 asking its members to pay wages through bank accounts, the petition said.
 
 Along with alleging illegality in the order issued by the labour commissioner, the union’s petition said the directive is unworkable and would bring untold misery and hardship to the workers. No bank has branches or ATMs near any of the estates where the workers are situated and each worker has to travel at least 20km to reach a branch or ATM situated in Munnar. Credit or debit cards are not accepted in any of the small shops that are used by the workers. Therefore, they have to come to Munnar to collect cash by foregoing a day’s wages, it was alleged.
 
 If the workers have to come to Munnar to get cash, work in all the estates would come to a standstill. Moreover, if 20,000-odd workers converge at Munnar town on any given day, it would result in utter chaos. It is also doubtful whether the banks would be able to meet the demand for withdrawal of salaries by workers or whether the banks would be in a position to assist the workers who are barely literate and have never operated a bank account in their life, the petition said.
 
 
