New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind   weathered the storm in his party by reaching out to senior functionary   and making him in-charge of Rajasthan besides forcing   to quit the political affairs committee and suspending him from the party. But those who were seen to be aligned with Vishwas and challenging Kejriwal’s authority now suddenly find their wings clipped. . 

 On the other hand, Khan – who had accused Vishwas of being a BJP-RSS agent after his plainspeaking on the party’s electoral losses and disconnect with people – has been renominated as chairman of the committee on welfare of minorities the second time, in the latest notification of house committees of the Delhi assembly.
 
 He is also a member of six newly-constituted house committees related to privileges, ethics, private members’ bills and resolution, questions and reference and petitions. Last year too he was chairman of the committee on welfare of minorities. He was also a member of the committees on private members bills and resolutions, questions and reference, papers laid on the table, salary and other allowances and ethics. So, he hasn’t suffered any loss in profile.
 
 Interestingly, Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti who was the privileges committee chairman has been removed from the post and is now a member of only the library committee. It was he who had set the rumour mills moving with his remarks after the municipal polls that he and at least half-a-dozen MLAs had suggested to Kejriwal that he should focus on the Delhi government and leave the role of national convenor to someone like Vishwas. Bharti has since been away on some meditation course and could not be contacted by TOI. 
 
 When Khan was suspended from   on Wednesday, he had stood by his remarks against Vishwas. .
 
 Speaker Ram Niwas Goel denied any political motives in his decision-making and said the party and government have nothing to do with these. 
 
 Interestingly, Chandni Chowk MLA Alka Lamba, who was a member of four committees last time, will now be a member of only the library committee. Palam MLA Bhawna Gaur too is only on the library committee, a big comedown from her membership of 11 committees last year. Both MLAs were reportedly seen to be supportive of Vishwas. TOI was unable to contact them. 
 
 
