HULIYAR (TUMAKURU DISTRICT): Three   and two others were admitted to hospital due to suspected   at a   in Tumakuru district on Wednesday.

 According to sources, the students -Shantha Murthy and Akanksha Pallakki (both 15 years old) and Shreyas, 14 -came to the hostel's dining area around 9pm. The students started having dinner comprising roti, subzi, rice and sambar when they found the sambar had a foul smell.By then, hostel security guard Ramesh and another student, identified as Sudarshan, were also having dinner.
 
 That was when the students, feeling sick, alerted others in the hostel against having dinner.   in Huliyar, about 160 km from Bengaluru, is run by former BJP MLA KS Kiran Kumar. His wife Kavitha is the institution's secretary.
 
 The school has 848 students from Class I to X, and 29 of them reside in the hostel.
 
 About an hour later, the four students and the guard started throwing up, pro mpting the warden and the cook to call Kiran Kumar. The hostel staff rushed the students to a hospital, which referred them to Tiptur as the students had reportedly developed respiratory problems. The Tiptur hospital did not have ventilator facility.
 
 Sources claimed the hostel staff waited long for an ambulance, which came around midnight. The drive from Tip tur hospital to Tumakuru was about two hours, and three students died on the way to hospital. Shantha Murthy and Akanksha were from Kayeethimmanahhli of Chikkanayakanahlli taluk, and Shreyas was from Sriramapura of the same taluk.
 
 Akanksha and Shantha were related to law minister TB Jayachandra. Kiran Kumar told TOI: “I had the same sambar, but I've no problems. I took students to a local hospital and then to one in Tip tur. We decided to shift the students to Tumakuru in an ambulance.'' Cook Shivaji claimed that sambar made in the afternoon was served for dinner too. “The students had the same sambar for lunch, and there were no complaints. We prepared only rice and rotis for the night,'' he added. At least one student said hygiene in the hostel was an issue.
 
 Superintendent of police Isha Panth said a case of negligence has been registered against the school management under IPC Section 304(A). Deputy commissioner KP Mohan Raj said the cause of death was “food poisoning“, and will investigate how the food got contaminated.
 
 
 
 
 The management of Sri Vidhyavaridhi International School, affiliated to the CBSE Board, hadn't obtained permission from the education department to run a boarding wing on its premises.
 
