NASHIK: Encroachers on the   stretch will soon be issued notices by the town planning department for road widening. 

 A survey of the road was conducted by the department officials and local   corporator Vilas Shinde in this regard on Thursday. 
 
 Most of the trees that were causing a hindrance to the road widening have been transplanted or been cut much to the ire of the activists who have been demanding that the land be acquired before the encroachments are removed.
 
 Earlier, the   has filed PIL 41/2006 against the   ( ) and other government departments for illegal tree hacking. On May 2, 2014, the high court permitted the civic body to cut trees that stand as obstacles, transplant the rest and conduct a trees census. 
 
 The NMC has started doing the same and formed a proper tree committee, all without not acquiring the land for road widening. So, activists and aware citizens have started objecting to the illegal activity.
 
 The encroachments by commercial establishments, shops and restaurants which also cause a hindrance to the road widening have been left untouched. In this backdrop, Shinde conducted a survey of these encroachments. 
 
 "We conducted the survey from Jehan Circle to Gangapur Road and asked the commercial establishments, restaurants and shops to remove their encroachments. These establishments have illegal constructions and have used the road for parking, which is an obstacle for road widening. They will soon be issued notices," said Shinde. 
 
 An NMC official said that in the next few days they will check the documents and permissions of the establishments and issue notices to them to remove it. 
 
 "If they do not remove them on their own, then we will demolish the structures with the encroachment department," he added. 
 
 A member of the NMC's tree committee, Sandip Bhavar said, "The civic body did not follow the rules while cutting the trees. They should have marked the trees to be cut and invited objections and suggestions from the citizens, conducted a hearing and presented the proposal before the tree committee for approval."
 
