SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh government has decided to build the first ‘smart hill town’ of the country near   where 450 bighas of land is already available. As Singapore government has agreed to invest Rs 2,500 crore in this project, now it will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state government on February 27.

 The issue of coming up with the first   of the country was discussed in a meeting presided over by chief minister   to review the progress of various schemes being implemented by Shimla Municipal Corporation.
 
 Urban development minister Sudhir Sharma said smart hill town will have all the facilities of international standards and new planned settlements will be created so that population aggregation at one place could be arrested and a more balanced distribution could be achieved.
 
 He said smart hill town is expected to provide abundant opportunities in hospitality, health and wellness besides education. He said it will have a special economic zone, international education zone, integrated townships, an entertainment zone, a convention centre, parks, shopping malls and more.
 
 During the meeting, Virbhadra stressed to complete the ongoing works of beautification of the town at the earliest. He said Shimla being a state capital needs to be given priority so that it may be included under the smart city mission. 
 
 He said musical fountains should be installed in the town. Besides, the process of shifting vegetable market to Darni Ka Bagicha and the Anaaj Mandi (Grain Market) and Timber Market to Shanan and Malyana shall be initiated soon.
 
 The CM said renovation of the town hall would be completed by June this year which was delayed as it was not vacated well in time despite repeated requests. “It was on my way to Vidhan Sabha in 2015 that strict orders were given to vacate the premises to pave the way for refurbishing of the gothic style structure,” he said. Virbhadra added that the work of foot bridges should be completed soon.
 
 Chief secretary V C Pharka also directed the officials to complete the work in time adding that foot bridges at Tara Hall, Chelsea and Sanjauli College should be completed soon. He said work on foot bridges should be started by March 25 after completing all codal formalities.
 
 
