VADODARA: Vadodara is moving closer to house country’s first   being set up by the  .

 The initial project report for setting up the national railway university has been prepared and RITES Limited, a Government of India enterprise, has been engaged to prepare the blueprint for the project. 
 
 Minister of state for railways Rajen Gohain said this in a written reply to a question in   on Friday. 
 
 According to Gohain, the university would benefit not only the Indian Railways but also the growing railway sector including the metro railway, private manufacturers of railway equipments, port railways and consultancy among others. 
 
 “The university will act as a centre for conducting interdisciplinary research on  ,” the minister said in his reply. 
 
 TOI had earlier reported that 100 acres land to set up the railway university has already been identified at Piparia in Waghodia taluka. The railway university is expected to come up at the cost of at least Rs 865 crore in two phases over a period of ten years excluding the land cost. 
 
 It was in December 2015 that the railway ministry had declared its intention to set up the railway university. Later, union minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha during his visit to the   (NAIR), Vadodara had declared that the university will come up in Vadodara. Land parcels at Padra, Desar and Piparia were surveyed after which Piparia was finalised as location for the railway university. 
 
 It is proposed that while Vadodara will act as headquarters for the university which will have multi campus, the six colleges of railways located at Secunderabad, Nashik, Pune, Jamalpur in Bihar and Lucknow will become its constituent schools.
 
 On October 22, last year, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited the city to inaugurate new integrated terminal building of Vadodara airport, he had said that the city will contribute immensely to the development of railways in the country through the railway university. 
 
 “Government of India has taken this decision whose impact will be felt throughout the century,” Modi had said, adding that if the entire world has reached at 100th place in railways, India stands at tenth position. 
 
