Nagpur: Over 273 owners of motorcycles or scooters, mostly parents, have been hauled up by city police in a crackdown on teenagers riding without licence. The police have also detained 309 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, and also booked 836 students for violating   rules and regulations.

 TOI had recently published a survey carried out by SaveLife Foundation across 10 cities, which indicated that 56% motorists in Nagpur did not appear for a test yet acquired a driving licence. “The number of traffic offences involving teenagers has reached a worrisome stage with many even indulging in illegal road races,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi.
 
 As part of its special drive against violators, the swoop on errant teenagers — mostly minors — began on Wednesday morning to target the increasing number of children illegally riding bikes, especially to go to schools and junior colleges. In this drive, traffic police personnel from all five chambers deployed nakabandi outside prominent city colleges to nab youngsters driving in violation of traffic rules.
 
 TOI spotted one such drive outside GS College of Commerce at around 12 noon. Traffic cops were nabbing students coming out of the college on vehicles, to check whether they had a valid driving license or not. So, most youngsters preferred not to come outside the premises. To evade action, many called up their parents, who then drove them away from the college. TOI also spotted many parents driving the vehicles out, with their children riding pillion.
 
 However, most of those caught had to summon their parents for help. TOI met one such parent, Sandeep Dakhane, whose son Suresh was caught driving a motorcycle without a licence. He gave the excuse that poor transport facility from his residence in Manewada had forced him to allow his son to drive a motorcycle to college. Senior PI (traffic) and in-charge of chamber — 2 flatly rejected this argument and warned Dakhane not to give a motorcycle to his teenaged son until he obtains a driving licence.
 
 After the college ended at 12 noon, students preferred to stay inside the college premises as they had been warned of the action. This forced the traffic police to change strategy and set up barricades in front of RTO. They succeeded in nabbing over 100 college students driving vehicles without licence.
 
 Similar was the situation outside most junior colleges where such drive was undertaken. Many youngsters preferred to travel in city buses and leave their vehicles inside the college.
 
 Since morning, over 1,109 owners were rounded up, prompting the DCP to send out a chilling message to parents: “Please do not kill your children on the roads.”
 
 Statistics from the police confirm that many teenagers have been killed while driving bikes. The DCP also said police were aware that students have been involved in many minor accidents too, which go unreported. The DCP said police will not stop targeting teen bikers, as the purpose is to raise awareness among youths to abide by rules. “Old habits die hard and the way we conduct ourselves on the road has to change,” he said.
 
 Parents and motorcycle owners, who knowingly allowed teenagers to drive without a licence, learnt a tough lesson and paid heavy fines. Detained vehicles were released only after parents turned up in the traffic chambers, said senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar.
 
 
