GREATER NOIDA: Four persons were killed and eight others injured when a speeding truck ran over them as they stood outside their Tata Ace van, whose punctured tyre was being fixed on the Yamuna expressway in the early hours of Tuesday. The van and its occupants were at the grassy roadside beyond the paved area of the expressway when the truck struck, sandwiching the victims between itself and the Tata Ace, dragging them several metres with its force.

 The driver of the truck, identified as Ramesh Kumar, confessed to the police that he had dozed off while at the wheel when the accident happened. The tyre of the goods carrier got punctured when it was in Jewar on the expressway. In all, 18 members of a family were on their way from Nehrupur village in Khurja, Bulandshahr, to attend a condolence meeting at a relative’s place in Faridabad. 
 
 The accident occurred around 3am when the Tata Ace driver was trying to fix the punctured tyre by the roadside. All the victims were taken to Kailash Hospital, Jewar, where two women and two men were declared brought dead. 
 
 Eight others were discharged from hospital after treatment, while six of them escaped without injury.
 
 Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO Jewar police station, said that all the victims belonged to a single family in Nehrupur village. “They were going to Faridabad to attend a condolence meeting of a relative. The front right tyre of the van got punctured on the expressway near Dayanatpur village. The driver parked the vehicle on the left side outside the road’s paved area and was replacing the tyre,” he said.
 
 The family members alighted from the vehicle and were standing around the van. “Just then a speeding truck came and ran over them,” Kumar said.
 
 Dharampal, one of the six who had a miraculous escape, registered an FIR against the accused driver at the Jewar police station. He said he was at the spot but had a close shave. The deceased included his father Harnarayan Singh (50), sisters-in-law Mahindri Singh (30) and Rupwati (40), and cousin Jai Prakash (40).
 
 A spokesperson for Kailash Hospital said the four dead persons had suffered critical head injuries and multiple fractures. “There were brought dead to the hospital,” he said.
 
 The injured were identified as Hetram Singh (52), Ashok Sharma (32), Prem Pal Singh (50),   (55), Kusum (50) Sonu (25), Mithlesh (50) and Deen Dayal (50). They were treated for their injuries and discharged from the hospital.
 
 The accused truck driver, Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Sultanpur village, was going to Delhi. A police team later reached the spot and arrested the accused. The driver told the police that he had slept while driving, which in turn led to the accident.
 
 The Jewar police registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 & 338 (causing hurt), and 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC against the accused. “We have arrested the accused and seized the truck. He will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Wednesday,” the police said.
 
 
