
The Bengaluru party brigade swears by their caffeine kick and nimbu pani. Model  , a regular in the city’s party circuit, says, “A cup of ginger tea after waking up after a night full of partying does the trick for me. But I make sure I eat well whenever I know I am going having a crazy night.”
 Reinstating the belief that a heavy, greasy breakfast always does the trick says DJ Rohit Barker says, “I really suggest   only that much that will keep you happy high. But if you know you are going to drink like there is no tomorrow, then invest in a party smart herbal capsule, which you can before you start drinking. However, if you are hungover today, go for a greasy English breakfast complete with sausages, fried eggs, toast and orange juice.
 Comedian   says, “Hangover is nature’s way of telling you that you’re no longer superman and it’s time to come back down to earth — one headache at a time. To get over my  , I drink a cold glass of water the second I wake up, go to the gym for an hour and then have a biryani.”
 
 
 
 Dr Sagnik Chattopadhyay says, “Keep a large jug of glucose water on your bedside table and keep yourself hydrated at all times. Also, keep a couple of paracetamols and D-colic tablets handy. Antacids, such as Pantoprazole with Domeperidone or Ranitidine, can be useful. Disprin helps some people, but it is not recommended unless prescribed by your doctor. You can also have black coffee, but remember to follow it up with a lot of water as it is also dehydrating. Have your doctor’s number on speed dial so that you can notify him in case of emergency.”
 “A hangover is best handled with the consumption of water. I would say drink (only fruit juices, green tea and water) like a camel. Eat plenty of fruits and veggies to flush out toxins after the party binge. Lemon, ginger and honey in warm water is also good,” says fitness expert Wanitha Ashok.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In an ideal situation, it's advisable to apply a soothing under eye gel and moisturize your face before going to bed. But if you are too far out to carry out this ritual, put a cold towel on your face for at least 10 minutes to de-puff your facial skin. Ice closes your pores and returns the elasticity. Sucking on ice cubes also helps in making you look fresh and rearing to go!
 
 
 
 
 
 
