MEERUT:   has rubbished reports that quoted   saying Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party was providing “tacit support” to the   by pumping in funds. Police had also said CPI (M-L) was putting its weight behind the new outfit, which shot into prominence after the Saharanpur   of  .
 
  The Bhim Army called the claims baseless. “It is a figment of their imagination. They do not want to talk about the real issue, which is the atrocities that have happened against Dalits in Saharanpur. Instead, they want to talk about who is providing support to who. They are investing their time and energy in finding the source of funds of a small organisation like ours. Instead, they should be focussed on finding culprits of crimes committed in Saharanpur,” said Vinay Ratan Singh, national president of the organization, talking on the phone with TOI.
  
  Sources in the Bhim Army said that it was precisely the absence of "star Dalit leaders like Mayawati, Ram Vilas Paswan and the rest" that became the USP of the newly formed organisation in the days following caste clashes in Saharanpur.
  
  Another member of the Bhim Army said that allegations of connections with the BSP stem from an upper caste discomfort with Dalit assertion. “The moment a Dalit raises his or her voice, you connect them to BSP. This is symptomatic of the thought process of upper castes that Dalits can’t think for themselves. That they can’t come together for mass spontaneous protest without pledging their political allegiance to any party. The upper castes and the establishment can’t digest the fact that Dalits want to stake a claim for their rights. That is why they want to just dismiss us as a creation of the BSP, because that then becomes a political tool and not the kind of uprising that it actually is,” he said.
  
  Noted Dalit writer and political analyst Chandra Bhan Prasad also debunked the police’s claim. “It is not a political campaign that needs funding. It is a mass movement which has emerged because there have been atrocities and there is a vacuum of Dalit leadership. So, this is not something that needs a lot of funding. The police should be more concerned about the violence happening in Saharanpur,” he said.
  
  “On Tuesday, people were returning from a Mayawati rally. They had BSP’s flags on their cars and in their hands. These people were brutally attacked and two of them have died already. The BSP hasn’t said a word about that, hasn’t provided any kind of support to them. How will it fund the Bhim Army?” said Satish Prakash, a Dalit intellectual and political activist.
  
  The BSP itself denied the report. “We are not providing any kind of support to the Bhim Army. Serious crimes have been committed in Saharanpur and the Bhim Army has raised some tough questions. Police should answer those,” said Ram Achal Rajbhar, UP state president, BSP.
