KOLKATA: Battle lines are drawn for the monsoon session of Parliament beginning July 12 with  's party and the opposition determined to corner BJP over the police firing on farmers in Mansdaur in Madhya Pradesh. BJP, on the other hand, has its force ready to take on the opposition on several issues, including the communal flare-up in  's Basirhat. 

 Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee has added to it a whole range of issues - the Centre's disregard to the federal structure, its using the central agencies against political rivals - in a bid to rope in other opposition parties, from RJD to DMK, to prevent erosion in the opposition votes ahead of the Presidential polls.
 
 "From notebandi to GST, the BJP government has added to the pains of the public. And whenever there is a voice of dissent they are out to silence it by engaging central agencies -   and ED. Laloo Prasad is a victim of political vendetta because he is a diehard critic of the BJP government. They have spared none. They tried to nail Congress on the National Herald controversy, they took a similar step against opposition party leaders - DMK, Arvind Kejriwal, Trinamool and even two Congress CMs. They didn't even spare media channels such as NDTV. Our former PM Indira Gandhi had faced public wrath on nasbandi, and this government is going to face a similar situation," Mamata said. However, the CM isn't in a mood to continue the spat with the governor, though, there has been similar criticism against the role of governors in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Manipur and Tripura. 
 
 BJP, on the other hand, has concentrated on the communal flare-up in Basirhat accusing the state government of failing to restore the rule of law in Bengal. A day after a state BJP delegation - Dilip Ghosh, Roopa Ganguly and Locket Chatterjee - made a vain attempt to reach out to the "riot-hit" zones in North 24 Parganas, a three-member BJP delegation from Delhi followed suit to keep up the pressure on the Mamata Banerjee government. "The CM has run out of her wits. She has failed to tackle the Basirhat flare-up. Why did she refuse Centre's help when it was ready to rush in four more companies of central forces?" BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said while taking out a protest rally from the state party headquarters to Esplanade.
 
 Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, close to NDA, has also planned a slew of stirs in front of Parliament highlighting the plight of the Hills people in Bengal.
 
 
