HYDERABAD: Abids resident K Viswarup has been spending more time ATM hopping over the past four weeks to get his hands on some cash than focusing on his small stationery shop.“Most of the ATMs on Abids main road as well as Koti have been running dry .Even ATMs attached to branches of nationalised banks as well as headquarters of banks like SBI and   do not have any cash,“ said an irate Viswarup. Uppal resident SM Basha too has been facing the same frustrating struggle. "Last Friday there was no cash available at five different ATMs in my area. This Friday too the situation remains unchanged," he said.

 The scene is no different even in upmarket areas like Banjara Hills and  . "It is frustrating especially when you are all set to go on a summer vacation but can't find any cash for your travel requirements," said Banjara Hills resident B Harita Devi. Over six months after the government launched the   drive, dry days continue to haunt Hyderabadis with several ATMs across city sporting the `No Cash' sign and many others being sealed shut.
 
 But bankers are at a loss to explain the exact reason for this crunch. In the first week of this month, banks claimed the scarcity was caused by staff shortage and lack of cash supply as it was salary payout week, but in the second week too most ATMs remain non-functional with several banks being able to load only limited cash even in onsite ATMs (attached to bank branches).
 
 Speaking on conditions of anonymity, bank officials said the stock of new currency from RBI has dried to a trickle and one reason could be that RBI has achieved its currency printing targets.
 
 “We have reviewed the situation at our bank recently to improve the cash availability. Certainly the cash position at ATMs has not kept pace with the demand,“ admitted S Ranganchari, assistant general manager,   (SBI).
 
 But some bankers feel this government's way of putting the squeeze as it wants people to shift to digital transactions. “This is a clear ploy to encourage digital transactions. It looks like they don't want cash to be available over the counter and through ATMs simultaneously . ATMs with low transactions may also be phased out,“ said B Venkataramaiah, secretary , Bank Employees Federation of India (AP& Telangana).
 
