It’s not every day that one gets to hear three of Western music’s most sought after genres under one roof. However, the exception for Hyderabad came recently when a supergroup 
comprising of seasoned musicians dished out a platter of blues, jazz and rock ‘n’ roll for audiophiles to cherish at  .
 Titled ‘Out Of The Blue’, the six-member ensemble comprising of Pranathi Khanna,  ,   and Karthik Kalyan,   and   on drum, bass and piano respectively, stirred a groove and belted out classics from all the genres, with a few originals mixed to add a distinctive flavour. “We offer you songs that range from blues to jazz with some pop and original compositions thrown in for a variety,” said  , who is the vocalist of indie-rock outfit Ragamuffins.
 Keeping up with the name of the band, the evening kicked off on a Blue note with Khanna’s rendition of Tracy Chapman’s 1995 chartbuster Give Me One Reason. While Lakdawala’s guitar made the audience miss ‘slow hand’ Eric Clapton, Khanna’s voice did justice to the composition and quickly followed it up with Adele’s That’s It I Quit I ‘m Moving On and an original titled Dropping Like Flies.
 Soon Kalyan, Christopher and Powell joined them on stage and offered the gathering an eclectic improvisation of 1960’s jazz standards, namely trumpeter Freddie Hubbard’s 1967 classic Little Sunflower and Kenny Dorham’s instrumental composition Blue Bossa.
 By the time the gathering was well into the caricatures of jazz improvisations, distinctly marking out instrumental progressions, it was guitar player Lakdawala’s turn to help them delve into contemporary bluesy pop with the likes of John Mayer. Mayer’s Friends, Lovers or Nothing moulded into a new shape on his subtle yet distinctive guitar.
 Shakila, with her power-packed voice, rendered standard Jazz hits namely Angel Eyes and Fever. However, it was when she sang The Beatles’ evergreen Let It Be that got the crowd jiving. “The audience was great, lapping up every note of music. They appreciated us and encouraged us. Playing music at Lamakaan is always deeply pleasurable. The ambiance and the music-loving audience made our performance worthwhile,” said Shakila.As the chorus of Let It Be echoed, it was time to call it a night. While moving out of the venue, we over heard one of the audiences lamenting to her friend, “Wish this evening could go on for a little longer.”
 
