PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The district collector’s office will send a detailed report to the state government on the land to be provided to the project affected persons (PAPs) of Pavana dam.

 Pavana dam is located on Pavana river in Maval taluka, around 40 km from the borders of Pimpri Chinchwad city. Its capacity is 10 TMC. The construction of the dam began in 1963 and ended in 1972. But not all the project-affected people have been rehabilitated so far.
 
 Additional district collector   said, “The Bombay   has directed to ensure that there is no discrimination while providing compensation to the affected people. The affected farmers had alleged that some people had received monetary compensation as well as four acre of land from the state government while others had not received land as compensation. The state government had given land to the affected people in 1974. Pavana dam has not been built for irrigation purpose, so it has no ‘labhkshetra’. It has been built for providing drinking water to the people of the surrounding areas. Land can be provided to the affected people in the ‘labhkshetra’ areas of the dam but as Pavana dam has no such area, we cannot provide them land.”
 
 “If one has to provide 4 acre land each to the affected people then we do not have so much land at the collector level. As a result we will be sending a detailed report about the demand for land and other aspects to the head office of relief and rehabilitation department in Mumbai. They will take a decision on it,” replied Kale.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Mukundraj Kaur, president,   who along with others had filed a petition in the High Court demanding land compensation, said, “Altogether 1,203 people were affected due to land acquisition for constructing Pavana dam around 60 years back. The State government has given 4 acre land and compensation to 340 people. In 2010, the state government offered us one acre land if we pay 50 per cent of its ready reckoner value but we cannot pay according to the current rates. So, we had a filed the petition in the High Court demanding equal compensation for all. The High Court in its order of February 27 had directed the state government to not to discriminate among the project-affected people. Pune additional collector demanded two months’ time for preparing the compensation plan, which was granted during the hearing on March 27. The state government must give a time bound schedule for providing the 4 acre land compensation until May 15, 2017’’.
 
