

 Almost eight years ago, the IT sector of the city woke up to shocking news. Twenty eight year-old techie Nayana Pujari, who was on her way home after work, was kidnapped, gang raped and murdered by four men, one of whom was a   driver. On Monday, a session’s court in Pune convicted three of the accused, Yogesh Raut, Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam (the fourth person, Rajesh Chaudhari, turned approver). 
 
 Following the incident, IT companies beefed up security measures and that’s the case even today. Although the recent murders of techies Rasila Raju and Antara Das raised safety concerns, IT women by and large feel that the situation is much better today, when compared to eight years ago. 
 
 
 
 “My company makes sure that security guards accompany us the female employees if they are travelling at night. They make sure that you are not the first one to be picked up from home or the last one to be dropped back at night. Also, all women employees have to call the transport desk to report their safe arrival home. In case of delayed arrival, the team calls up the employee on her mobile for confirmation.” —
 
 
 
 “Our company ensures that we reach home safely, but I think that being safe is a personal responsibility too. I have learnt self-defence techniques to look after my well-being. Also I keep a penknife and pepper spray in my bag just in case something bad happens. I believe it is essential for women to remain alert.” — 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “The company insists on us using the Metro Zip bus service provided by the Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA) but, at times, our timing does not match so I opt for the car pool option. There are private cab services but we avoid using them due to safety concerns. Our employers need to take note of this and provide better transport options.” 
 
 
 
 “We haven’t faced any problem from our cab facility provider in the last eight years. But to ensure better safety, we have given emergency numbers to employees which they can contact if they feel insecure. Also,   are not mandatory for employees and they have fixed work timings which ensure that they don’t miss the cabs.”-
 — 
 
 
 
 “Women have been asked not to work in night shifts at our company after untoward incidences came to light. Not just night, but crimes against women happen in broad daylight too. Skirting the issue is not a solution. I have never faced any problem working in night shift. My company provides the best security and transport and that is more than enough for us to feel safe.” 
 
  
  
 
