PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has selected Pimple Saudagar-Wakad for area-based development (ABD) under the  .

 As many as 50,710 people voted online in favour of   for ABD intervention. Nigdi Pradhikaran received the second highest votes — 35,497. Sangvi was close third bagging 32,961 votes.
 
 Municipal commissioner Dinesh Waghmare told TOI, “We had to hurriedly prepare the smart city proposal for submitting it to the Union government by March 31. We shall be seeking the approval of the civic general body while implementing the approved proposals.”
 
 The civic body had appealed to the citizens to participate in an online poll for deciding on the projects to be implemented under the Smart Cities Mission and the   solutions, and the area to be developed under ABD. It also distributed questionnaires to people at busy places to get their opinion.
 
 The online polling data on the municipal website prepared for the smart city project states that 38,066 people voted for healthy environment, while 32,990 voted for affordable living and better transportation. Improved traffic management received the maximum number of votes — 47,335 — among the Pan City solutions. Smart governance was the second demand, while pollution monitoring was the third preferred solution.
 
 Neelkanth Poman, the chief information and technology (IT) officer of  , said, “We shall be installing pollution measurement and display devices across the city for monitoring pollution. A control and command area would be set up to monitor the pollution levels of the entire city. Its location is yet to be finalized.”
 
 He said, “We need to plant more trees in the city. We shall concentrate on implementing urban forestry in the city. We shall be planting indigenous tree species at public spaces considering the climate of the city.”
 
 On measures to be taken for the improvement in transportation in the city, Poman said, “We shall not provide assistance to the   for creating any infrastructure. But we shall help it in having modern signalling system, retrofitting of bus shelters and implementing intelligent transport system, under which mobile alerts would be provided to citizens about the location of buses.”
 
 He also promised adequate water supply and drainage facilities in the areas selected for ABD. “We shall provide smart utilities there. We shall make walkways, greenery, cycle tracks, bus shelters and other amenities in these areas,” said Poman.
 
