MANGALURU: A typical agrarian activity which was once more a ritual than sport, kambala has transformed into a sport in totality in the past two decades. The transformation, initially slow, picked up pace following increased spectator support, sponsorships and government patronage in the recent past.

 Villages still perform the traditional, ritual-based kambala in undivided   and Udupi but the number of entertainment and sport-based kambalas have increased to more than 30. “While traditional kambalas are based on devotion, modern kambalas are representation of strength and strategy,“ says Kambala expert Gunapala Kadamba, founder of Kambala Academy at Miyar near Karkala.
 
 “The name, kambala, a ritualised activity of preparing the field for sowing, has its origins from Tulu words `Gampa Kala' which means to ensure the agricultural land filled with mud is level enough for sowing. Buffalo owners pooled in their resources to ensure levelling of large agricultural tracts and the practice of holding a race for able buffaloes in the pack for modest rewards started as an off-shoot,“ says Kadamba. “The further off shoot of the traditional kambala are the competitive ones,“ he added.
 
 While traditional kambalas, numbering over 150, are held from November to mid-December, particularly in Kundapur and Udupi, the competitive versions, about 30, kick off from November-end and go on till April. Over the last two decades kambala has got a modern touch to it with flood-lit kambalas being held.
 
 Dr  , 73, whose family has been carrying out the ritual for over a 100 years, says that in the 80's only 32 pairs of buffaloes took part in the event but now there are over 180 pairs, and modern kambalas provided them space where traditional ones couldn't.
 
 “The modern kambalas started a decade ago. Apart from funds coming from other sourc es, people took it as family prestige and some had ancestral attachment. For many who pitched in with funds, it was to rediscover their cultural roots, particularly businessmen from Mumbai. The prize may be just a sovereign of gold, a pittance compared to the expenses incurred on each animal, but the prestige of wining and owning one was a matter of pride,“ says folklorist Dr Chinnappa Gowda, VC of Karnataka Folklore University in Haveri.
 
 This would nowhere be true when you consider the case of Karinje Vinu Vishwanath Shetty, 53, owner of a hotel chain. He started buying buffaloes 16 years ago and once had six pairs. He now has three. “We had buffaloes at home since childhood. But financial difficulties forced me to leave my roots. This sport has reconnected me with my roots. Those who want my help cannot come to Mumbai or Dubai looking for me,“ Shetty said. “For a kambala I spend almost Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh,“ he added.
 
 While ordinary bovines get just dry grass and occasional horse gram feed to eat, owners of the kambala buffaloes don't mind splurging on horse gram, copra, copra oil, apples, carrots and milk cream, besides an oil massage and bath twice a day for their animals.
 
 To bring about discipline, a kambala samithi was formed in 1989, which started framing rules to minimize violence such as racing buffaloes without using canes.
 
 
 
 Kambala has the patronage of the state's political heavyweights including Abhayachandra Jain, B Ramanath Rai, Vinaya Kumar Sorake, Nagaraj Shetty, Jaya Karnataka founder N Muthappa Rai. State patronage to the folk sport can be traced to former CM Gundu Rao who had sanctioned pension to a few kambala runners.
 
 Major politicians who gave a financial push to kambala include ex-CM M   , Union minister and former CM DV Sadananda Gowda, Oscar Fernandes among others.
 
