AHMEDABAD: Two Muslim witnesses on Friday appeared before the special SIT court hearing the   case and deposed in favour of an accused person, Dinesh Patel. The witnesses told the court that Patel was with them on the day of rioting and that the accused had, in fact, given shelter to them on February 28, 2002.

 Maqbulkhan Gulabkhan Pathan, a resident of Juhapura, was summoned by the court at the request of accused persons. During his deposition, he said that he was working with a private company in GIDC, Naroda. He reached his workplace at 7:30 am on February 28, 2002. An hour later, he got a call from his home that communal tension was prevailing in the city due to the   train fire a day earlier. His family members asked him to return home as they feared violence.
 
 Pathan further said that he, along with a resident of Chiloda village and co-worker Nizam Gulamali Ansari, communicated to the union leader, one Amrutkaka, that they had to go home. They were taken to Dinesh Patel and the two stayed together in the company till the afternoon. Patel took them to his home. Pathan stayed there till next morning when Patel accompanied him to his home in Juhapura.
 
 Ansari too deposed before the court and stated that he was with Patel till the afternoon. Both Pathan and Ansari identified Patel in the courtroom.
 
 During the cross-examination by the prosecution, Pathan said that he had no clue about the train fire in Godhra a day earlier. He was also unaware of the bandh call for February 28 given by various organizations. He further said that he did not notice that there was anger among Hindus against Muslims that day. Sources claimed that Pathan also said that he had no idea that any rioting had taken place in Naroda Gam.
 
 Another witness,  , deposed in the court and stated that his brother and then   corporator, Vallabhbhai Patel, was with him at a maternity home in Vadaj when rioting was going on in Naroda Gam.
 
 Meanwhile, the witness Vasram Patel, who told the court that the prime accused Babu Bajrangi was with him in Sabarkantha on the day of rioting, was grilled by the SIT prosecutor during the cross-examination. Vasram Patel told the court that he did not remember in which vehicle, he and Bajrangi took his nephew’s dead body from   to Derol Kampa near  . He did not remember the vehicle registration number.
 
 Eleven persons were killed in the Naroda Gam massacre and more than 80 persons are facing trial.
 
