MUMBAI:  , who passed away in Mumbai on Monday, captured in his novels the mutating moods of post-1960   and its people with sensitivity and craftsmanship. He was 75. The litterateur was admitted to Sion hospital on Sunday for a heart ailment. He was in a critical condition and was put on ventilator support in the ICU. He breathed his last in the early hours of Monday . There were no final rites as the family donated his body to JJ Hospital in keeping with his wishes. Sadhu is survived by wife Aruna, two daughters and grandchildren.Sadhu burst upon Maha rashtra's literary scene with `Mumbai Dinank,' a landmark novel which chronicled the tumultuous world of politics in the 1970s: a sordid tale of ambition, deception and the politician-criminal nexus. “Mumbai Dinank came as a percursor to the decline of Maharashtra, political, social and cultural,“ said critic Meena Waishampayan.

 Seen through a journalist's prism, `Mumbai Dinank' became a hit because of Sadhu's staccato style and characters drawn from real life: the CM patterned on Vasantrao Naik, while the trade unionist was reminiscent of  .
 
 `Mumbai Dinank' was followed by `Simhaasan' and filmmaker Jabbar Patel blended the two novels to make `Simhaasan,' a pathbreaking film which continues to tug at the heartstrings of the Marathi `manoos'.
 
 In later years, Sadhu's reputation as story-teller was confirmed by novels such as `Jhiprya', `Bahish krut' and `Shodh Yat ra.' `Glaanirbhavati Bharat' is a collection of short stories.
 
 He dabbled in cine ma too, collaborating with Sooni Taraporevala and Dalit poet   on the script for `Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.' He also wrote the screenplay for `Yashwantrao Chavan.' Patel directed the two bio-pics. `Padgham,' a musical penned by Sadhu, spoke, again, of the decadent political culture and violence. As a journalist, Sadhu worked for TOI, Indian Express and, in later years, for The Statesman. He was editor of   in the 1980s and also served as professor and head of the department of communication and journalism, Pune University , for six years.
 
 Till recently Sadhu wrote on political and social issues.But the soft-spoken leftist thinker was disconcerted with the steady rise of rightwing forces in the country.
 
 Paying tribute, CM Devendra Fadnavis said the litterateur wrote “very effectively“ on contemporary issues and problems which invade metropolitan life. “He guided generations of journalists,“ added Fadnavis.
 
