HYDERABAD: Item girl  's stint in the   may well be cut short by reality after she received summons from the excise department as part of the ongoing probe into Tollywood's links with drug peddlers.

 She will have to leave the Bigg Boss house in Lonavala and rush to Hyderabad for questioning by the excise department sleuths on July 27.
 
 Confirming that the actress, who is participating in reality show Bigg Boss Telugu, will be appearing before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the drug peddling cases, enforcement director Akun Sabharwal said Mumait Khan will have to appear for questioning like the others who have been issued notices under Section 67 of NDPS Act.
 
 “Mumait is scheduled to appear before the SIT on July 27,“ Akun Sabharwal said. However, unlike her male colleagues who have been appearing before the investigating officers at the SIT office in Abkari Bhavan at Nampally, Mumait Khan will have the choice of talking to the SIT sleuths at a place of her convenience.
 
 “But she will be questioned in Hyderabad,“ a SIT official said.
 
 As already published in TOI, SIT sleuths, who could not find Mumait's address to serve her the notice, contacted the organisers of the Bigg Boss Telugu show and intimated them about the notice.
 
 “We contacted the show managers and the actress confirmed that she will be appearing before police for questioning,“ a SIT official said.
 
 Though Mumait will have to leave the Bigg Boss house to appear for questioning, the development may not adversely affect her chances of continuing in the show as, in the Hindi version of the show too, contestants required to leave the house due to emergencies have been able to stage a comeback.
 
 So far, from tinsel town, director Puri Jagannath, cinematographer Shyam K Naidu and actor Subbaraju have appeared before the SIT for questioning.
 
 Mumait Khan, who has acted in 40 Telugu, 20 Hindi, 16 Tamil and five Kannada films, is one of the contestants in the first season of Bigg Boss Telugu being hosted by NT R Jr.
 
