BENGALURU: India’s highway   has forced some of the most prominent hotel chains in the country such as the Taj, Oberoi, Hyatt and Accor groups to stop serving alcohol to guests at key locations from April 1, threatening an estimated toll of Rs 65,000 crore in revenue foregone by state governments and the hospitality industry.
 
  The move could lead to states losing overall tax revenue of Rs 50,000 crore, restaurants and pubs taking a hit of Rs 10,000-15,000 crore and 100,000 people going out of work, said  , president of the National Restaurant Association of India ( ).
  
  Apart from the trade having to dispose of stocks, states will lose heavily. “State revenue losses are estimated at Rs 50,000 crore, besides job losses of over a lakh. We are in the process of putting together exact numbers but these are initial projections,” he said. NRAI is a lobby group that represents restaurants and pubs around the country.
  
  
 
  
    CEO Amitabh Kant put the jobs at risk at 10 times that number. “Tourism creates jobs. Why kill it? Supreme Court’s highway liquor ban verdict may hit 1 million jobs,” he tweeted.
  
  The Supreme Court has banned liquor vends within 500 metres of national and state highways including hotels and restaurants, from April 1.
  
  The step has been taken as a safety measure to reduce accidents due to drunk driving in one of the most crash-prone countries in the world. Hotels affected by the ban included the JW Marriott, Taj Santacruz and Grand Hyatt in Mumbai; The Oberoi, The Trident and Leela Ambience in Gurgaon; and all the hotels in Aero City Delhi such as the JW Marriott, Hotel Pullman, Ibis and Holiday Inn.
  
  
 
  
  “The obvious impact is that a number of outlets have to close,” said Shekhar Ramamurthy, managing director of United Breweries, the country’s largest beer maker. “When that happens, consumption comes down.”
  
  The Beer Café promoter Rahul Singh said industry is working with various state legislations to create a prescribed buffer to minimise collateral damage. “Sale of liquor from a takeaway vend cannot be compared with on-premises consumption in a secure place such as a hotel or restaurant,” Singh said.
  
  Liquor sales in India slowed to 0.4% in the first nine months of the financial year, the slowest growth in a market that’s been expanding rapidly since 2001, with a compounded annual growth rate of over 12% in the decade to 2011.
  
  The top three --  ,   and Allied Blenders, which account for 60% of overall sales -- had zero growth by volume in the April-December period.
  
  The ban comes into effect as liquor makers stare at more sober days as increasing prices, prohibition in Bihar and an uncertain economy force consumers, particularly those at the lower end of the market, to check discretionary expenses.
  
  A report by HDFC Securities values the Indian alcohol market at Rs 40,500 crore, of which the socalled Indian-made foreign liquor contributes 70% revenue.
  
  “Rulings such as these negatively impact the alcohol as well as hospitality industry dramatically. (It) will do little to deter offenders. There is a need to educate and create awareness about aspects of road safety and dangers of drunk driving,” said Lisa Srao, managing director, Brands Beverages, which sells Three Royals and Granton whisky, Rum 99 and Granton XO brandy.
  
  
 
  With over a third of liquor outlets located around national and state highways, disruption will be significant, brokerage CLSA said in a recent report. “Given restrictions around educational and religious institutions, migration may be a tough task and could take a while,” it said.
  
  For instance, restaurants in Gurgaon’s wildly popular Cyber Hub went dry on Saturday as it’s adjacent to National Highway 8, forcing habitues to hunt for other watering holes. Some asked whether it was an April Fools’ Day prank.
  
  Some state administrations have reportedly re-designated state highways as district roads to avoid shutdowns. Specific to spirits giant United Spirits (USL), the CLSA report said: “We expect heightened volatility in USL volumes, margins and profitability as the company gears up for this ban, and a higher impact on lower-end brands.”
  
  USL sells in close to 60,000 outlets across the country and the ban could affect about a third of those. “Our industry checks suggest that the ban has affected 30-40% of the outlets,” said a research report by broking firm IIFL Institutional Equities. “Given the confusion on how this ban would be implemented (whether shops would close/ relocate), retailers have undertaken channel de-stocking, which would weigh on fourth quarter (January-March FY17) sales.” 
