AURANGABAD: Staying true to the verse   ( The guest is equivalent to God) from ancient Indian scripture, the city police’s tourist department helped a German national reach Almora after he ran out of cash.

 Forty-Five-year-old Holger Misar from Berlin in Germany arrived in the city on Wednesday to get a treatment from a homeopath based at Osmanpura, but he soon ran out of cash. The police suspect that Misar lost cash on his way to Aurangabad and did not have money to return to Almora, a small hill station in Uttarakhand, where he had landed earlier this month.
 
 To make matters worse, Misar forgot his ATM card in Almora and did not own a mobile phone.
 
 The foreign national requested the homeopath to share his account number, so that he could transfer some money into it with the help of a friend and withdraw the same. Much to his dismay, the doctor turned down his plea citing that the government was being harsh on unaccounted transactions in bank accounts.
 
 The doctor though suggested Misar to take the help of police, following which he reached Kranti Chowk police station. Police inspector Anil Adhe said, “Due to the language barrier, our men were unable to understand his issue. We then passed on the message to the control room and within minutes, the   arrived at our station.”
 
 During the interaction, the sleuths found that the tourist had run out of cash and was in need of a bank account wherein he could get some money transferred.
 
 Head constable  , who is the coordinator of the city polices tourism unit told TOI, “We took him to the office of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation, where we were asked to get in touch with a private tour operator.”
 
 The tourist received another setback, when the manager at the tour operator’s office citing vigil by the income tax department, refused to lend him the account number.
 
 The cops explored a few other options, but when nothing worked in their favour, Daniel with the help of his colleagues pooled some money and offered it to Misar. The tourist, after accepting the money, took the bank account number of the policeman and emailed the same to his lawyer friend in Almora from a cyber cafe. The police officials received money within the next few hours.
 
 Before boarding a train, he took the tourism police’s diary and wrote, “Today to my great surprise and delight, have come in touch with the tourist  , who helped me very quickly and resolved my issue completely. I am very happy about this. I could not have even imagined the existence of such service in India.” 
 
 Misar’s lawyer friend from Almora, Shekhar Lakhchoure said, “Holger is under treatment from a Aurangabad-based homeopath. This was not his first visit to Aurangabad. He had visited the city six months back.”
 
 
