PANAJI: The directorate of   and geology ( ) has decided to take stern action against the   companies, if they are found indulging in illegal mining activities at their respective leases in the state by changing the allotted ore quota.

 The DMG has also decided to give incentives to those lease holders who report irregularities and illegalities of other leases holders.
 
 “If a lease holder reports the illegalities of other lease holder, the person reporting shall be rewarded, whereas the lease holder against whom such reporting is done and found to be correct then such lease holder shall lose a quantity allotted to it as decided by the director. Confidentiality regarding the informer shall be maintained,” director of mines   said.
 
 The decision of mines department was recently informed to the mining companies at a meeting called to discussed production and transportation details for the financial year 2017-2018.
 
 Acharya also told the mining companies that the   is considering enhancing the production limit in the state based on the recommendations made by the expert appraisal committee appointed by the court. “It is the duty of the department and the industry to equitably distribute the production in eight months of the financial year as mining activities are not carried out during the monsoon season from June to September,” he said.
 
 As per the apex court order, there is capping of 20 million tonnes for the extraction of iron ore in the state. Expert appraisal committee has recommended increasing the cap on iron ore extraction to 30 million tonnes and subsequently to 37 million tonnes.
 
 Mines department has set a target of 8 million tonnes of production before commencement of monsoon season and asked the lease holders’ representatives to give details of the quantity which they are able to produce so that the targeted production can be achieved before the end of May 2017.
 
 Various representatives of mining companies have expressed their ability and willingness to produce the targeted quantity.
 
 Mines department also stressed that there is a need for zero tolerance to accidents and accidental death due to ore transportation. Mines department also took a decision to reduce the quota allotted to any lease holder by up to one lakh tonne if any accidental death occurs during transportation of ore, including the empty truck plying for ore extracted from such lease holder area. 
 
