PUNE: The Union government’s ambitious plan of providing piped natural gas (PNG) to as many houses as possible in the city has hit a hurdle.

 State gas supplier   ( ) has claimed that the   is not cooperating with it for laying of the gas pipelines, delaying supply to about 60,000 households.
 
 The MNGL is already supplying   to around 40,000 homes in Pune, and also operates over 40 CNG refilling stations. 
 
 In October last, the MNGL had sought permission from the PMC to lay pipes on an additional 100km stretch which would enable to expand its network. However, work on almost 80km of that stretch has yet to begin. The reason: PMC has now been allowing MNGL to dig up roads, instead telling the company to go for a trench-less method to lay the pipes. 
 
 The company says it had explained to the PMC that the trench-less method is not feasible in the city, as laying pipelines without open digging could damage existing pipelines. The gas supplier also argued that the method is not commercially viable, as the civic body was demanding steep restoration charges despite no restoration being required — Rs 3,000 per running metre instead of Rs 900. 
 
 MNGL sources said the civic body’s road department, despite repeated follow-ups, has not taken any positive steps towards a breakthrough. 
 
 Angry over the delay, MNGL has now approached the PMC commissioner’s office, seeking urgent intervention in the matter. 
 
 “We have not been able to lay pipelines in last four months, and now PMC will not allow digging after March 31, which will lead to further delay,” A M Tambekar, MNGL’s managing director. “A joint survey was done but no headway was made. There needs to be better cooperation from civic body to ensure that maximum households and vehicles in the city get natural gas to curb air pollution,” Tambekar added.
 
 He further said several housing societies have the necessary infrastructure for PNG, and that only the civic body’s permission was awaited to lay the pipes to supply gas to these societies. 
 
 Despite municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar’s advice to grant necessary permission, claimed MNGL sources, the road department has continued in this vein. 
 
 Meanwhile, senior officials from the PMC’s road department said that the civic body has prepared a detailed policy for trenching. The official said issues can be discussed with MNGL to work out a solution. “Relevant points can be discussed but for that, MNGL will have to produce necessary details. Reconsideration of digging charges is possible,” the official said.
 
