PANCHKULA: A special investigation team (SIT) headed by ACP Mukesh Malhotra on Saturday arrested  , a confidant of   head  , from Udaipur in Rajasthan.

 In his early 30s, Pardeep was associated with Dera since he was seven years of age and was now an administrator of an international school run by the dera in Udaipur district. Premilinary investigations revealed that Pardeep was one of the 45-member core group of the dera and was a strategist for the escape plan of the dera head after the conviction.
 
 The duty magistrate has ordered seven-day police remand for him. According to police, Goyal played a crucial role in mobilizing crowd as well as the suicide squad from among the dera premis, who hailed from tribal belts of Rajasthan. On the day of violence, he was the only person who knew about the escape route of the dera head to Himachal from Panchkula in the escort convoy. He also had the plans of taking the dera head to Rajasthan via Punjab.
 
 According to information, he was the main coordinator for the deras across Rajasthan and was a close confidant of Honeypreet as well the dera head and would plan their routes during the promotion campaigns of MSG films. “He is a crucial link, which could lead to Aditya Insan and Honeypreet as well. Besides this, we are hopeful of getting more details from the laptop and other computers seized from his place in Kotra village of Udaipur,” said cops.
 
 Meanwhile, reliable sources associated with SIT said that they had the plans to confront all key accused arrested in the case. These include Surender Insan, Chamkaur Singh, Daan Singh, Govind Insan, Dilawar, Pardeep, Parkash Insan and Vijay Sharma. So far, they were being interrogated separately but now they would be interrogated together, the sources said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Haryana police on Sunday provided complete Z-security cover to   Judge  , who had given the verdict and quantum of punishment in the rape cases involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim last month. 
 
 Commissioner of police A S Chawla said that the security cover had been given on the recommendation of a review committee constituted to assess the security threat to important and VVIP dignitaries of the state. “We have provided a bullet-proof car as well as security cover at his residence and office. Besides setting up door-size metal detectors at both places, family members will be given extended security cover,”' said Chawla.
 
 
