INDORE: The spiraling graph of   and burglaries in the city has  

 Even as burglars have increasingly made houses of elite class persons, including traders, fashion designers, ex-government officers, their prime targets, the   have done nothing after FIRs are filed, claim residents. They say that inadequate patrolling and lethargy are two prime factors behind the increasing cases of thefts. Police in most cases are clueless.
 
 Be it the case of the burglary executed at the house of a fashion designer in Palasia area or the series of thefts under Simrol police station, the police are yet to make any breakthrough.
 
 Residents allege the gangs of thieves operate in secret and there is no one to hear their grievances. The victims come to know about the thefts in their houses when they get up in the morning or are back from a vacation. The miscreants target houses during the day and night and in most cases they break open shutters and doors.
 
 “We feel unsafe,” said Anamika Yadav, a  . “Once the theft is executed, police pay a customary visit and there is no result as far as   and recovery of stolen articles are concerned,” she added.
 
 Meanwhile, retired police officers feel there needs to be a strategy to deal with these thieves.
 
 “Though police do their work really well, there are some things which should be kept in mind. I feel it is the duty of the residents to keep their houses safe. They cannot always depend on the police. Police can take care that the beat system is followed properly. Police station in-charges and CSPs should be vigilant and habitual criminals should be punished severely and kept a close eye on,” said retired IPS officer Vinay Agnihotri.
 
 DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said, “We have deployed mobile police vans in different areas and intensified patrolling. Specific directives have also been issued to polce stations to tighten the noose on gangs involved in thefts.”
 
 He added that teams have been constituted to crack down unsolved cases.
 
 
