BANKURA/BHOPAL: Triple murder accused Udyan Das may have planned to do away with live-in partner Akansha’s parents as well — to eliminate everyone linking him to her and possibly to get his hands on their property, say Bankura police.

 Akansha’s parents Shivendra and Sashibala Sharma feel they had a narrow escape when Udyan visited them in Bankura in October last year — Akansha was dead and buried in a macabre tomb in Udyan’s house for three months by then. He stayed with them for two nights and now, in hindsight, they believe he had come with a gruesome plan.
 
 “He came here to murder us all, but somehow failed. At that time we were not able to judge his intentions but now I am 100% sure he was here to eliminate us. Why would a man come to meet the parents of a girl he murdered a few months back?” Shivendra told TOI on Monday. “He was trying to gain our confidence by talking about the well-being of our daughter in the States. He was so polite that we suspected nothing. We were lucky to escape but unfortunately my daughter did not.” 
 
 Bankura police agree. “It seems he had a motive behind the visit. But he is not saying the truth even now,” said Bankura SP Sukhendu Heera. Police believe what brought Udyan to Bankura was Akansha’s parental property — two houses in Patna, some land in Bihar and the family’s bank balance. “He (Udyan) was leading an extravagant life. There is every possibility that he was planning another strike for gain,” a source said. Udyan was such a smooth talker that there was no way to know the man sipping tea at their house had killed their daughter, the parents said.
 
 Police and the family suspect Akansha’s brother Ayush was the natural target because he would be the only surviving heir. Their suspicion grew when Shivendra told them Udyan insisted on staying in Ayush’s room during his Bankura visit despite being offered a separate room in the sprawling, two-storey house.
 
 Ayush travelled to Bhopal with Bankura police and then to Raipur. He has been brought face-to-face with Udyan during questioning and this has given police crucial leads, say police.
 
 “Udyan had introduced himself as Akansha’s colleague in the US and promised to take the entire family to America. He invited them to come down to Delhi but did not show up when they went there. This shows he was up to something that needs further probe,” the father said. He used to text them five-six times a day, the parents said. 
 
 Police are puzzled by how easily Akansha and her family fell for Udyan’s blatant lies, like dining with the US President and that he works with   in New York. He chatted with them on WhatsApp posing as Akansha. “How is it that the father, who is a senior bank officer, believed everything that Udyan said through social media?” a police officer said.
 
 Akansha’s mother Sashibala told investigators that she came to know Udyan about one and a half years ago. She narrated how Udyan went out of his way during his Bankura visit to win the family’s confidence, say police. “He spoke well in three languages — Hindi, English and Bengali. However, he deftly avoided questions on why Akansha was avoiding her family and communicating only on WhatsApp and Facebook. He even convinced them that she would take up a US SIM after she is ‘granted US citizenship’. In January this year, he declared on Akansha’s behalf on   that she has been ‘invited by Trump administration’,” said a police officer.
 
 Investigators are trying to track the sequence of events till Akansha’s murder. They are investigating if Akansha and Udyan got close to each other while she was studying electronics at a  . “We are keeping our options open and certain questions will be answered once we get his custody. It seems unlikely she was completely in the dark that Das had never been to US,” said an investigator.
 
