KOLKATA: Regular thrashing has broken the heart of this elderly woman. But the trauma has failed to curb her motherly love. “He beats me up regularly. But I still love him. He's my son“. This was what 70-yearold Pramila Sarkar had to say a day after police held his son and daughter-in-law for attacking her with an iron rod.

 The reason behind the attack -the son,  , a senior official with the railways, allegedly wanted her parents to drive away his younger sister, who stays in the house, post-pregnancy . He had them write the three-storey house entirely in his name.
 
 The incident at Sukantanagar's I-Block in Salt Lake stunned neighbours who rushed to the house on Sunday morning in a bid to stop the son and his wife, found beating up the old woman who was lying on the floor and pleading for mercy.
 
 The neighbours only sepa rated the couple and called police. They coaxed the woman to file a complaint against her son. Ashis (49), a senior section engineer of the signalling division at Adra division of   , and his wife Tarulata were charged with IPC sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). If found guilty, they can be jailed for life. On Sunday , they were produced in a Salt Lake court that sent Ashis to judicial custody till February 20 and granted Tarulata bail.
 
 On Monday , the elderly mother sitting in her room holding her right hand that has a hairline fracture in the palm, recounted the attack to TOI.“Since morning, he was quarrelling over my daughter staying at our place. He suspected she is looking for a share in the house. When I tried to reason, he lost his cool and pushed me to the ground. Then his wife brought an iron rod from their room with which he tried to hit me on the head. I put my hand in front of my face to defend against the assault. But they kicked and punched me till the neighbours came to my rescue,“ said Sarkar.
 
 She, however, says even after all the attack and abuse, she loves her son. “He asks us to leave the house and go away and abuses me and my husband.But then again he is my son. I still love him. Even yesterday, I had no intention to lodge a police complaint but the neighbours and my daughter forced me to do so. I wish he is released quickly and comes back home,“ she said.
 
