SHIMLA: Custodial killing of a rape accused by the main accused at   of Shimla district has flared up public anger with a mob attacking the police station on Wednesday. As agitated people pelted it with stones, leaving many policemen injured, besides trying to set the police station on fire, police in retaliation fired gunshots in air to disperse the crowd. Tension has gripped the entire area after protesters also burnt some vehicles.

 As soon as the news of the custodial murder spread, people came out on streets questioning the role of police. First they assembled in the main market and later headed towards the police station. The crowd got engaged throwning stones at the police station, thrice since morning. In the stone pelting, three policemen were injured seriously and they were taken to hospital for treatment. To disperse the crowd, the police had to fire three rounds in the air but this aggravated the situation. To control it, the cops then resorted to cane charge in which many protesters were also injured. 
 
 Sources said that as Kotkhai police found it difficult to control the violent mob, additional police force was summoned from Jubbal and Theog. Protesters also blocked the road at Theog, Fagu and Dhalli. 
 
 Resentment among public against the police for its investigation in the gangrape and murder case has been growing. People, including opposition parties like BJP and CPM, are questioning the arrests made in the case. It is being asked if two residents of Nepal were involved in the crime then why did they not flee to Nepal after committing the crime as had ben done by accused in many past instances. Another question which has arisen is that if the crime was committed in the forest, then why any wild animal did not harm the body.
 
 Meanwhile, the postmortem examination of deceased Surat Singh was conducted at   Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), Shimla, amid tight security. No one was allowed to go near the body. Around 50-60 policemen arrived at hospital with the body.
 
 SHO, jawans sent to police lines
 
 Himachal Pradesh, chief secretary, V C Pharka said that along with Kotkhai police station, SHO, jawans deployed on night duty have also been sent to police lines. He said those policemen who were on duty during night, when the clash inside the lock-up took place, leading to killing of one of the accused, had been placed under suspension. He said magisterial probe had also been ordered into the incident.
 
