In a chat with Delhi Times,   talks about the gap between what filmmakers actually want to say and what they say on screen, why we need to take history a little less personally, and the conflicts that sowed the idea for ' ' - Indians fighting each other in World War II, and Gandhi's philosophy vs Bose's.
 
 
I think 
  with a philosophy is always bigger than 
  with a person. Because when you are in love with a philosophy, or a cause, or a thought, it is not basis reciprocation from the other side. Woh 
  
  ho 
  
  That is more difficult to accept, for others also, and often they are like ‘saala 
  
  thaa, 
  
  
 ?’ 
 
 
 
 Of course. Inter-personal 
  
  
  
  
  
  ki 
  ho 
  hai. Isme 
  
  
  ki 
  hai 
 , philosophy 
  change 
  
 , 
  change hue. 
 And that is totally justified. People can change. You can evolve and think differently. 
 
  
  
 
 
 I happened to meet Matthew Robbins, who is now a friend, at a film school Mira Nair had started, we were all there as mentors. He has written for Spielberg, for Tarantino. We thought we should work on a film together. And he researched and came up with this part of World War II – Indians fighting each other...
 
 
 
 (laughs) True. But this story started there. We don’t read much about India’s engagement with the world. We are not really very aware of what happened in the world in those years.
 
 
 
 That’s perhaps true. We have not been a very belligerent nation, for a long time, agar 
  
 .   
  ka 
  
 , ‘Dil ki 
  
  Dilli hai, jo 
  
  
  
  
  hai’. Everyone who 
  this side... Spiritually we talk about the transience of the body, of the soul being immortal, but we have not been so forthcoming about laying down the body in 
  of the country. And we sometimes explain it as this was a land of peace, of the Buddha. We will hesitate to say that well, this is how it was, we did not manage to do very well militarily and all these invaders, up to the British, did defeat us and thereby ruled this land. We don’t reconcile to history.
 
 
 
 But that way we will never evolve as a nation. We can’t say that hum khud 
  
 , 
  history 
  
 !
 
  
  
 
 The one deep question, I think, which stays, is – which philosophy was better: Gandhi or Bose? And it isn’t as simple as non-violence and violence.
 I have raised the point in the film – I question myself also. My enemy’s enemy is my friend, perhaps, but on that account was it right, in retrospect, to shake hands with  ? Having said that, everyone spoke about the brutalities of the Germans but it is not as if the British were not brutal in how they ruled us. Was   not equally brutal as killing someone in a gas chamber? Did people know of the concentration camps when we were reaching out to Germany?
 Some writers are of the view that resorting to a fast unto death to press for any political point is also a form of violence. What we call passive-aggressive now, perhaps. When we do that in a family, we describe it as emotional blackmail. I also heard Osho talking about this once, that the Gandhian way of protesting was not necessarily non-violent.
 
 
 
 Yes, this is what people say... But when any military-controlled system has taken power here, it has not given it up easily, as you can see from the subcontinent.The point I think is not that, of a more 
  India. The point is what Bose was – in the romanticized, charismatic way he had a dream and he worked towards that dream. And it was quite possible at the time when he was trying to work with the Germans and the Japanese that they may win the war. Those possibilities and Bose’s charisma make this a story that still engages us. If just a harder state was aspirational, even the Emergency would have been something people are nostalgic about. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 We take everything very personally, you know. Hum retrospective 
  
  
  
  evolve 
  
  
 . Yeh 
  ki mud 
  
  
  
  cheez 
  
  ya 
  
 , as a nation, accept 
 , ya open discussion 
 . We can agree to disagree. But that doesn’t happen. Our attitude is that either you agree with or I kill you. This is a major problem with how we handle things as a society. This is really frustrating for us filmmakers.
 
 
  
 Haan, because you always have to be cautious. Freedom of expression ki 
  is always questionable. 
  
  
  
  
  or 
  
  
  
  
 .
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 . Nahi 
  
  ko latka 
 . Dekhiye what happened with Bhansali. People get in and beat you over an imaginary sequence about perhaps an imaginary person. We see people as gods. A leader, a king is also a human being and will also have human weaknesses. But we will believe 
  
  idols 
 , 
  
  ho hi 
  
 .
 
  
  
 
 
 You can’t show them as humans. You can’t show them falling in love. The problem is not that we can’t make movies on our leaders. We can. The problem is that the state doesn’t give us protection. There are many platforms today – you can release a movie on a Netflix or an Amazon or you can even not release a film in India, not even need to raise funds in India. The simple problem is that physically, I am not given protection by the state. I am not saying give me Z category security because I made a film. But I am not willing to lose my sense of freedom, I am not ready for that, and so I will not pay that price to make a movie.
  
 
 
 I don’t want to be a political voice. I don’t want to change the world. I want to change myself first. As you grow older and you mature, you 
  that you have so many flaws. I would rather work to change myself, internally. Why do I need to change the world?
 
  
  
 
