As revellers in the city geared up to welcome   in style on Saturday night, they couldn't help but worry about the unavoidable scenarios. From unavailability of cabs to disorderly crowd at nightclubs to no parking space -New Year's Eve is no fun without law and order in place. While most in the City of Joy lived it up on  , there were many who maintained the order of the night.

 NABIN CHANDRA JHA
 
 App cab driver Spotted at: EM Bypass at 11.30 pm Resident of: Tollygunge
 
 We spotted Nabin at 11.30 pm as he dropped a customer near EM Bypass. “I'm going to work till late. The demand for cabs is huge tonight. When I see women waiting for conveyance at odd hours, I can't help but feel for them as I too have two young daughters. Tonight, my priority is women's safety,“ he said. On being asked about his plans for the New Year, he added, “After working all night, I think I'll just rest on the first day of the year.Family gussa bhi nahi hoti aaj kal.They know my job isn't easy.“
 
 
 
 TUHIN HALDER
 
 Bartender Spotted at: Xrong Place, at 3 am Resident of: Bongaon
 
 Tuhin has been bartending since nine years and by now his family is well accustomed to the nature of his job. “I've been doing this job for a long time and, hence, there's no room for complaints on my family's front. To compensate my absence on this day, I take them out every year on the first week of December,“ he said.
 
 
 
 BASANTI DAS
 
 Shopkeeper Spotted at:  , Sector V at 12.30 am Resident of: New Town
 
 Basanti owns a chai and variety stall at Salt Lake Sector V. As we reached there at 12.30 am, she was busy attending customers. Hers was the only stall open in all of DP Block. “My shop is already very popular among young professionals here. Since it's just adjacent to a pub, I have water and digestive tablets at my stall. My neighbours went for a picnic today. I too wanted to join them but tonight, making few extra bucks made more sense,“ Basanti told us.
 
 
 
 CHOTON BAGH
 
 Parking supervisor Spotted at: Salt Lake Sector V, at 1 am Resident of: Anwar Shah Road
 
 Choton, a parking supervisor, would have given anything to spend quality time with his four-year-old son and wife on December 31. But his profession is such that he was out on the road all night. “There are many hangout zones here and at least 100 cars are parked every hour,“ he said. Speaking of his New Year plans, he said, “I'll be home. My family has left for a relative's place, so tomorrow it's going to be lonely for me.“
 
 
 
 SHAILENDER TIWARI
 
 Bouncer Spotted at: The Great Booze Story, at 2 am Resident of: Shyamnagar
 
 Shailender was on the dance floor all night but didn't match a step or two.He was busy managing the crowd and keeping a tight watch on rowdy. On being asked if he misses spending time with his family on the last day of the year, an emotional Shailender said, “Pet ke liye sab karna padhta hai. The least I could do was to have dinner with my family but that too wasn't feasible tonight. My New Year isn't a happy one.“ Speaking of his job, he added, “I'm stricter with men than I am with women. While others are having fun tonight, I'm maintaining the order.“
 
 
 
