Navi Mumbai: Residents of   will no longer have to install expensive septic tanks and conduct periodic cleaning of the same as   has commissioned its first Sewage Treatment Plant ( ) and Sewage Pump House ( ) in this developing node.

 This development has come several years after the township coming into being at a combined cost of Rs 65 crore. While the STP will cost Rs 45 crore, the SPH is expected to cost the city planner Rs 20 crore.
 
 Residents have very often carried out protest marches to the local Cidco office to press for basic civic amenities and this has finally yielded results.
 
 The unused sewage lines laid by Cidco long back could be connected to the apartments and housing societies with the newly built SPH for further scientific treatment at the STP before it is discharged into the creek.
 
 Three years after the date of the commencement of work at both the plants in 2014, Cidco has completed the task and commissioned them for further use. They have been developed under phase I network which will cater to as many as 8 sectors-- 2, 3, 5, 6, 19, 20, 21 and 23--where occupants are more in numbers but lack a proper sewage disposal system. Both the plants will have a capacity of 32 MLD each to cater to a township of around 2 lakh people.
 
 However, with the current population of around 30,000 in these 8 sectors which come under phase I of Ulwe development plan, 3 MLD of drinking water is being supplied to these areas.
 
 But in the absence of an STP and SPH residents have been forced to dispose the sewage in septic tanks. The Occupancy Certificate (OC) was being issued to developers based on the availability of septic tanks which will now be a thing of the past.
 
 “Developers will no longer have to install septic tanks before allowing the occupants to take possession of flats. Individual owners too can save money now and can connect the toilets to our sewage lines directly. All the existing and unused sewage lines will be cleaned and connected to every household in a month’s time which will be pumped to our SPH to be directed to STP for treatment,” said K D Jadhav, Cidco executive engineer, Ulwe node.
 
 According to Subhash Sharma, a resident, “The monsoon had been critical for residents when sewage water overflows on to the roads, leading to waterborne diseases. Dengue, malaria, typhoid have been common during the rains due to overflowing sewage water. After several years Cidco is going to provide us our fundamental needs. It is good news that our toilets will be connected to sewage lines.”
 
