HYDERABAD: In the wake of road accidents on the Tadbund road, especially after the recent accident at a sharp curve in which two people were killed and another was injured on January 28, the Roads and Buildings (R&B) department has decided to lay Rumble strips on the road and install crash barriers on the central median at the accident spot.

 The rumble strips will force vehicles to reduce their speed at the curve of the road. This, the department expects, will help in preventing accidents. “I have asked our executive engineer to prepare estimates for providing rumble strips and crash barriers on the road and the two road safety features will be in place early as possible,” R&B engineer-in-chief I   told TOI.
 
 Soon after the January 28 incident, the   (GHMC) mayor   along with officials of Roads and Buildings department visited the spot and discussed a solution to put an end to such incidents on the road. The mayor also asked GHMC engineering officials to look for equipment or other available technology to prevent such incidents.
 
 Though many held the alleged faulty design of the road for the number of accidents that have taken place at spot, R&B officials said the road cannot be straightened by widening as it runs between a graveyard and the old airport. “City roads are designed for only 20 to 30 kmph but the youth were riding their bike at nearly 50 kmph,” an engineering official said.
 
 Since it is difficult to control vehicles coming at a higher speed, crash barriers will be provided on the central median and Rumble Strips to control the speed of the vehicles on both sides of the roads.
 
 “The strips are generally provided at accident prone areas especially on national highways,” Ganapathi Reddy said. Interestingly, the   suggested   to remove all speed breakers on the roads and provide Rumble Strips on the roads to arrest road accidents. 
 
 “If the Rumble strips give positive results, they will be provided in all 88 accident prone roads and spots in the city,” Bonthu Rammohan said. 
 
