AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday noon, the lower promenade of the   drowned as water was released at 1.3 lakh cusecs from the Dharoi dam, 131km upstream of Ahmedabad. The sight attracted a bevy of visitors who were keen to take selfies with the river’s torrential flow as the backdrop, despite strict orders from authorities to keep away from the riverfront. Since 5 am on Tuesday, there was heavy deployment of police and district administration officials along the 10.5km riverfront.

 This is for the fourth time that the riverfront’s lower promenade has submerged. In the past, it sank in 2006, 2011, and 2015. Two years ago, water was released at 1.8 lakh cusecs from the Dharoi dam and the lower promenade had completely submerged.
 
 “We used to hang out every evening at the riverfront promenade after work. Today, we were told to return home,” said Poonam Rathod, a freelance copywriter from Navrangpura. Riddhi Shah, a physiotherapy student, said: “I had heard of the 2015 floods, but I saw the river swell for the first time.” City police personnel on various bridges dealt strictly with youngsters taking selfies.
 
 The Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation Limited (SRFDCL) had spent Rs 7 lakh to clean the riverfront stretch two years ago. A senior   official told TOI , “The lower promenades are designed to be submerged when there is heavy release of water from the Dharoi dam. The promenade is designed at the level of the   barrage and lets citizens close to the water for most of the year.” Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “These are exceptional times, but with new technologies available, better flood management is possible which will lower such occurrences of submergence.” The riverfront, it is said, is designed for flood waters coming at 4.5 lakh cusecs. In fact its 10-metre retaining walls protect the city from the immediate onslaught of floods.
 
 The architect of the riverfront, Bimal Patel, said: “The whole promenade is concrete, including its furniture and even the tree pits that curb soil erosion and protect trees.” 
 
 He said there are no shops, lawns, or entertainment zones on the lower promenade, precisely because submergence is expected when there is heavy release of water. “Even the Paris riverfront faces similar issues. But over the years, better flood management has reduced such instances,” he said.
 
 
