NAGPUR:   corporator   was elected as the 52nd mayor of Nagpur on Sunday while her partyman   was elected as her deputy. Jichkar won by a margin of 82 votes while Pardikar’s margin was 80. The elections were a mere formality as BJP enjoys an overwhelming majority in the new house.

 The election for the two posts were held in Town Hall, Mahal. BJP has 108 corporators in   (NMC) house and Jichkar got all of their votes. Congress has 28 corporators but as two of them were late, its candidate Sneha Nikose got only 26 votes. Vandana Chandekar of BSP got 10 votes.
 
 Three corporators - Mangala Gawre (Shiv Sena), Zulfiqar Ahmed Bhutto (Congress) and Harish Gwalbanshi (Congress) were not present during the mayoral election. Congress corporator Gargi Chopra has already resigned and hence the strength of the house was down to 147 from 151. Three corporators - Kishor Kumeria (Shiv Sena), Duneshwar Pethe (NCP) and Abha Pande (Independent) - abstained from voting.
 
 The election was conducted by district collector  . At first, the corporators were asked to sign the attendance register. Then the election was held by voice vote. After that the signature of corporators supporting the three candidates were taken on election forms.
 
 The election to the post of deputy mayor was held next. By this time, Congress corporators Bhutto and Gwalbanshi had reach the house and the party’s strength had increased to 28. Sena’s Gawre, however, failed to turn up.
 
 BJP’s Pardikar polled 108 votes while Nitish Gwalbanshi got 28 votes. Narendra Walde of BSP had to be content with 10 votes. Kumeria, Pethe and Pande abstained in this election too. Pardikar was declared elected by 80 votes.
 
 The final item on agenda of Sunday’s meeting was appointment of standing committee members. Kurve vacated the chair for the new mayor. Municipal secretary Harish Dube read out the weightage of each party in NMC house. BJP’s weightage was 11.45, Congress - 3 and BSP - 1. The ruling party got 12 seats in the 16 member committee, Congress - 3 and BSP - 1. The party leaders submitted the names of the members in sealed envelope to Jichkar.
 
 Later talking to the media, Jichkar said that her priority would be to ensure that the women corporators were empowered to serve the people well. “We will try to provide civic amenities to all citizens. I will try to do justice to all of them,” she added.
 
 On transparency, she said that all the 108 corporators of BJP would work transparently and hence the administration would be transparent.
 
 Women to dominate standing panel 
 
 BJP sprang a surprise by nominating eleven women out of its quota of twelve. Only the chairman Sandip Jadhav is a male. This is the first time that the NMC standing committee is dominated by women. The BJP’s representatives are: Sangita Gire, Rita Mule, Usha Pelat, Sarla Nayak, Bali Hattithele, Bhagyashree Kantode, Neha Waghmare, Manisha Kothe, Sarita Kawre, Lata Kadgaye and Jaishree Wadibhasme.
 
 Most of BJP’s representatives excluding chairman Jadhav, who is a retired NMC official, are inexperienced and there is a threat that the administration may get questionable proposals passed by them. This had happened in the last regime when the chairmen did not have sufficient experience of civic administration.
 
 The faction-ridden Congress failed to submit the names for its quota of three members of NMC standing committee on Sunday. Leader of opposition Sanjay Mahakalkar told the mayor that the names would be submitted in the next meeting. BSP nominated Jitendra Ghodeswar from its quota. 
 
