GURUGRAM: The district-wise review of immunization, carried out independently but monitored by   and recently released by the   ( ), has revealed an alarming trend: with less than 60% children fully immunized, six districts in Haryana, including  , have the lowest   coverage in the country. 

 Shockingly, Gurgaon ranks second from the bottom in the list, with only 23.6% fully immunized children. 
 
 On December 25, 2014, the Government of India launched Mission Indradhanush as its flagship immunization programme. The aim was to vaccinate all children and pregnant women and reduce morbidity and mortality due to life-threatening diseases. In Haryana, a target of over 90% full immunization coverage by 2020 was set.
 
 Since then, four phases of the programme have been held in the state till April 7, 2017. However, according to the review, at least six districts in Haryana have less than 60% fully immunized children, including Mewat (13.1%), Gurgaon (23.6%), Palwal (25.3%), Rewari (41.2%), Faridabad (46.3%), Jhajjar (50%).
 
 The report states “for the first round in Mewat, although 97% sessions were held as per plan, and due list availability was 74% at session sites, only about 72% children were found un-vaccinated. Head count-based due list was available for only 44% of the sessions. 
 
 Gurgaon hasn’t fared any better when it comes to guarding its children from deadly diseases. It ranks second-lowest for the number of immunized children. “The problem is in Gurgaon, there are numerous urban slums. A majority of these people keep migrating, sometimes within the district. They do not follow any health or   programmes, which is affecting the immunization drive in the district,” said Dr Charan Singh Madan, state coordinator, NHM.
 
 Round 2 of the fourth phase of Mission Indradhanush will be held from May 15 to May 22. Health officials have been instructed to plan strategically for maximum coverage. A head count of 100% children should be completed by each accredited social health activists (ASHA) and female multipurpose health worker (MPHW) to complete their due lists, as per the head count. All auxiliary nurse midwifery (ANM) will have to ensure that not even a single child is left out of the head count by their ASHA.
 
 Also, for mobilisation of un-vaccinated or partially-vaccinated children of less than two years age, at least two home visits are required before the advent of the programme.
 
 All senior medical officers (SMO) and medical officers (MO) have been directed to conduct meetings in their respective health facilities with frontline workers, ie ASHAs, ANMs, etc. A micro plan of 100% session-sites will be prepared in these meetings, and each micro plan will be validated by local MPHW (female), verified by the SMO/MO, signed by district immunization officers (DIO) and approved by the civil surgeon (CS).
 
 “All staff, be it regular or contractual, will be deployed for mentoring, supervision and monitoring, to complete the micro plan, head count and due list for Mission Indradhanush. Staff on duty should cross-verify the same. If any gap is observed, it should be immediately brought to the notice of the DIO and CS, for course correction,” said Dr Madan.
 
