NEW DELHI: It was the turn of real estate major   to face the music in   on Friday after the court told developers   and   earlier this week that they could not escape either refunding money or giving possession of flats to homebuyers.

 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud appointed advocate Gaurav Agrawal as amicus curiae and asked him to create a web portal on which the 600-odd homebuyers in Emerald Court housing complex in Noida could indicate whether they wanted refund of their money.
 
 When some lawyers, who have invested in Supertech’s 40-storey twin towers in Emerald Court, said they would prefer to take flats instead of refund, the bench said a clear choice will have to be made and those who do not opt for refund now would not be permitted to do so in future.
 
 The SC asked the amicus curiae to prepare a list of homebuyers who preferred refund and asked Supertech to see that all of them were returned their principal investment amount with 14% interest.
 
 Supertech’s counsel Salman Khurshid and Keshav Mohan informed the court that nearly Rs 110 crore had been refunded to homebuyers and said the realtor was ready to return money to all those who wanted to reclaim their investment. The court asked Supertech to give details of refund to the amicus, who was asked to submit a report on October 23.
 
 On April 12, 2014, the Allahabad High Court had ordered authorities to demolish the 40-storey ‘Apex’ and ‘Ceyane’ towers in ‘Emerald Court’ complex in Noida’s Sector 93A on finding that the builder had “by joining hands with officers of the development authorities flouted every conceivable rule, including building regulations”. On appeal by Supertech, the SC stayed the demolition but asked the builder to refund money to homebuyers with 14% interest.
 
 A petition by ‘Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association’ had alleged that construction of the two towers was “in complete violation of UP Apartment Act, 2010”. The association had also challenged the reviewed plan for construction of the two towers in violation of Noida Building Regulation and Directions, 2010.
 
 The petitioners had alleged that the Noida Authority had given permission for raising the height of the two towers, which were earlier supposed to have only 24 floors, “without maintaining the mandatory distance of 16 metres from an adjoining building block, making it unsafe, apart from blocking air and light”. Through a sanction order of March 2, 2012, Noida authorities had permitted raising of the towers' height from the sanctioned 66 metres to 121 metres.
 
 
