New Delhi: As attacks against Indians and people of Indian origin in the US gain salience in the public mind, foreign minister Sushma Swaraj engaged with the issue, speaking to the family of a Sikh American who was the third such victim in the last fortnight.

 Swaraj spoke to the family of 39-year-old Deep Rai who was shot outside his home in Washington state, apparently another instance of hate crime against Indians. “I am sorry to know about the attack on Deep Rai, a US national of Indian origin. I have spoken to Sardar Harpal Singh, father of the victim,” she tweeted.
 
 "He told me that his son had a bullet injury on his arm. He is out of danger and is recovering in a private hospital,” Swaraj tweeted. Investigations were in progress, she said. The outreach came as West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee urged the government to take up the safety of Indians with the US.
 
 Though Sikhs have sometimes been targets in the US -- their headgear being confused with the one favoured by Osama bin Laden -- the current instances have been linked by some commentators to President Donald Trump's campaign rhetoric, raising fears of more attacks.
 
 The media coverage of the attacks has clearly raised the profile of such instances with Swaraj's Twitter handle receiving requests that the government issue an advisory to Indians travelling to the US about how to keep themselves out of harm's way. 
 
 In a series of tweets, Swaraj said, “I am pained to hear about the killing of Harnish Patel, a US national of Indian origin in Lancaster, South Carolina. Our consul has reached Lancaster and met the family of Harnish Patel.” Swaraj also offered her condolences to the bereaved family.
 
 Patel, 43, the owner of a convenience store in Lancaster county, South Carolina, was found dead of gunshot wounds in the front yard of his home on Thursday. Police had said Patel’s Indian ethnicity did not appear to be a factor in his killing.
 
 On the attack on Rai, MaryKay L Carlson, charge d'affaires at the American embassy here, said she was saddened by the shooting in Washington state. “Wishes for quick and full recovery. As @POTUS said we condemn 'hate and evil in all its forms',” she tweeted.
 
 Deep Rai described the shooter as a six-foot tall white man, wearing a mask covering the lower half of his face. The police are looking for the gunman.
 
 The West Bengal CM expressed her concern as well. “Two more shocking killings of Indians in the US. GOI must take this up with the US govt on an urgent basis,” Banerjee tweeted.
 
 ends
 
 
