CHENNAI:   government has recently launched a scheme to sell   at subsidised rates to people under Unnat Jeevan by Affordable LEDs and Appliances for all (Ujala) programme. The  , launched in Chennai, will soon be extended to rest of the state.

 Under the scheme, 9W LED bulbs which cost Rs 150 apiece in the market will be sold for Rs 65 at 60 places in the city, mostly at Tangedco's bill collection centres. Similarly , LED tubelights and energy saving fans will be sold at subsidised rates.
 
 Each person with authorised identity card such as Aadhaar will be permitted to purchase 10 bulbs.
 
 “In Tamil Nadu, the government aims to distribute 3 crore LED bulbs, 35 lakh LED tubelights and 10 lakh fans to consumers. The total estimated annual savings in electricity bills through this programme will be more than Rs 1,650 crore, with energy savings of 416 crore kWh," Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) deputy general manager T Ramesh told TOI. 
 
 The Ujala scheme is being implemented by EESL, a joint venture company under the Union ministry of power.
 
 With the launch of the scheme, 1.10 crore houses in Tamil Nadu will benefit by saving big on their power bills.The scheme will soon be rolled out in other districts of the state, said Ramesh.
 
 So far, the company has sold 1.5 lakh 9W LED bulbs, 40,000 tubelights and 11,000 fans. “The fans cost Rs 1,150 each and have a five-star energy efficiency rating. The bulbs, tubelights and fans have a three-year warranty," Ramesh said. 
 
 The light emitted by a 9W LED bulb will be equivalent to that of a 40W incandescent bulb. So far the company has sold 1.5 lakh 9W LED bulbs, 40,000 tubelights and 11,000 fans. “The fans cost Rs 1,150 each and have a five star energy efficiency rating. The bulbs have a warranty for three years and similarly the tubelights and fans too have a warranty for less than three years," said Ramesh.
 
 The light emitted by a 9W LED bulb will be equivalent to that from a 40W incandescent bulb and the 20W LED tube lights will be equivalent to 40W normal tube lights.“The bulbs are available at centres which open at 8.30 am during working days. Our company has chosen two agencies through which we are selling the bulbs. There is no subsidy involved. EESL purchases from companies at more or less the same cost," he said.
 
 In the first week of June, the EESL will extend the number of centres where the bulbs will be sold. “By June first week, we will be selling LED bulbs in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. After this, it will be extended to other districts in the state," said Ramesh.
 
