Panaji: Every year, the absence of a functional transport system in the state becomes the most agonizing for tourists during this season. The last day of 2016 saw private taxi operators holding tourists hostage with their exorbitant rates and many others refusing to ride, citing traffic snarls and congested roads.
 
  Although prices had been on the higher side over the past week, which marks the peak of the tourist season in the state, December 31 took it to new levels when taxi rates left many domestic flight prices to shame.
  
  “I have travelled to many other tourist locations in the world, but have never overspent so much like I had to do in Goa. The taxi driver initially agreed to take me to   from Taleigao for 900 but half an hour before he was scheduled to arrive, he told me due to heavy traffic, there are no cabs and it will cost 1700,” a Delhi-bound tourist shared his ordeal at the airport.
  
  Similar exorbitant price quotations were shared by other people, many describing Goa as the biggest rip-off tourist destination. People were charged as much as 5,000 for a one-way journey from   to  , which is approximately a distance of 47 kilometres.
  
  “The service is bad and expensive. I don’t know why they don’t allow radio taxis. Every new year’s eve, hotels and taxis charge obnoxious amounts from tourists,” said  , who was visiting the state.
  
  The Dabolim airport aptly mirrored the poor state of the arrangements. By night, the sole prepaid cab service was failing to provide a cab to the large incoming travellers citing heavy traffic jams near the popular stretch of   beaches and the   in the South.
  
  The inadequate prepaid cab service at the airport left the incoming people at the mercy of the private cab operators or they had to wait for their turn till a prepaid cab was provided.
  
  “If you want to see the longest line of people queuing up for a prepaid taxi, land in Goa on New Year’s Eve. Judging by the length of the prepaid taxi queue at the  , this is where we’re likely to spend New Year's Eve,” said an upset tourist at the airport terminal.
  
  A taxi operator said that the tourist season is the only time they can earn some money and there is a huge demand-supply gap during this season. “There are not many cabs available today and there are heavy traffic jams near the tourist belt of North Goa where cabs are getting stuck, thus losing on the number of trips. If we don’t earn today, when will we earn,” he said.
  
  Contrary to these claims, travellers and locals living in the area said that there was no major traffic jam near the   bridge and traffic on   was moving slowly but steadily at a speed of 20-30 kilometre per hour. Traffic did snarl on the road leading to Candolim, Calangute and Baga beaches.
  
  Many tourists took their ire on social media, stating that the difference of quality in transport facilities between Goa and other Indian cities is now glaringly visible. “Goa needs a major infrastructure ramp up in case they want to host Christmas and #New year together! Crazy traffic & no taxis at Airport,” a twitter user named   vented his ire.
