NEW DELHI: Kashmiri separatist leader   has admitted he spoke to 26/11 mastermind and global terrorist   on phone and had done so most recently in January this year, the enforcement directorate's chargesheet filed in a Delhi court on Saturday said. 

  The ED and   are probing connections between Kashmiri separatists like Shah and   and terror organisations backed by Pakistan in funding and instigating violent protests in Kashmir. The period when Shah is understood to have spoken to Saeed in January coincides with the time when demonetisation was seen to have hit "daily wages" paid to stone-pelters. 
 
  "Shabir Shah also admits that he talks to Hafiz Saeed, chief of banned outfit Jamat-ud-Dawa (the preaching arm of  ) and the global terrorist based in Pakistan on phone on the issue of Kashmir. Recently he had spoken to Saeed in January, 2017," the ED said. 
 
 Phone records also show around 20 calls being made from the mobile number of Pakistan-based hawala conduit Shafi Shayar to Shah's mobile between January 22 and July 26. Wani also said he has been working for Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad for 15 months and has been in touch with JeM area commander Abu Baqr. He admitted that around Rs 10 lakh of hawala money was to be given to Jaish members.
 
 The ED said investigation into the affairs of Shah had led to the attachment of Rs 62 lakh of "crime money" belonging to the leader. His aide and co-accused Aslam Wani disclosed that he has been receiving deliveries of hawala cash on behalf of Pakistan-based hawala conduit Shafi Shayar. Wani has been working for Shah since at least 2003.
 
 "The investigation (revealed) that Shabir Shah received funds from terrorist outfits/ sympathisers from Pakistan to promote terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of India," the ED said.
 
 Shah was arrested by the anti-money laundering agency on July 26 this year and has since been in judicial custody. Both Shah and his cash courier Wani have been arrested under the prevention of money laundering Act. The agency is currently identifying properties of the accused and establishing the money trail.
 
 Wani has claimed that he travelled to Delhi several times during 2005 and spoke to contacts in Pakistan and Delhi on instructions of Shah and collected cash consignments to Srinagar and delivered them to the separatist leader who paid him for his services.
 
 After collecting the cash from Chandni Chowk and Sapna cinema, he kept the money at his uncle's house at 89, IIIrd Floor, Kailash Hills, New Delhi. One such consignment of Rs.62.96 lakh was recovered from his uncle's house during search by the Special Cell officials of Delhi Police.
 
 Wani further disclosed that he delivered the cash to Shah at his residence where he also met Dr Bilquis, Shah's wife who was a doctor at the government maternity health hospital, Srinagar. "Shabir Shah also told him to deliver the cash to his wife Bilquis, if he was not present at home, in future," the ED said.
 
  Shabir Shah runs a website of his party http://jkdfp.org/. "The IP address belongs to Peshawar, Pakistan and the website is hosted on host201212.comsatshosting.com and the organization of the domain is Commission on Science and Technology at Peshawar, Pakistan North West Province," said the ED chargesheet. 
 
  Shah's website is looked after by one Mehmood Sagar of Rawalpindi, Pakistan. "The information office of the party is at satellite town of Rawalpindi and is maintained by Miraz Ahmed who provides the information from Pakistan," the ED said. Miraz was earlier resident of Baramulla and left India long back and settled in Pakistan. Pak-based hawala conduit Shafi Shayar belongs to Anantnag, Shah's home town. 
 
 
