AHMEDABAD: The central government is considering stringent norms for   which not only sell but also  . The Union government is thinking of making it compulsory for pet shop owners to register themselves with the local body. The rules also make it mandatory for the state government to form a   or society for prevention of cruelty to animals. The new rules have been proposed by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. 

  The new rules framed under section 38 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act-1960 state that if any pet shop wants to provide grooming services, it will have to mention in the application for registration. Such grooming services would also require a license. The new rules also state that no person shall be allowed to operate a pet shop in a shanty, shack, pavement or any temporary or makeshift arrangement. However, no pet shop will be granted a license by the local authority unless the shop had obtained a certificate of registration from the State Board in accordance with these rules. The new rules state that every puppy shall be micro-chipped by a veterinary practitioner, and each pet shop shall have a functional micro-chip reader within the premises. Under the new rules, each puppy will be sold with a micro-chip.
 
 The pet shop will be required to have separate areas for different species and maintain the temperature according to the requirement of the specific species. The new rules state that the pet animals housed in the shop should have adequate space to make other normal postural adjustments without obstruction. Similarly, aviaries should be different for different species to give adequate space to the birds to move about freely by spreading their wings and perch in the normal position. The rules state that water birds shall be provided water troughs in which they can swim or wallow. Officials said that according to the new rules, each pet shop will have to get a medical certificate from a certified veterinary doctor if the pet housed in the shop is not adopted or gets a new home. 
 
 The pet shop or the society for prevention of cruelty would have power to inspect and enter the pet shop at any reasonable time and have access to all areas within the establishment and all animals, and records, to ascertain whether the rules are being complied with. The state board or the society will have to inspect each registered pet shop at least once a year.
 
