NEW DELHI: Early on Thursday morning, Delhi Police arrested  , so-called commander in chief of the banned   (Porei Meiti). Along with the capture, the cops also claimed a link between an MLA in poll-bound   and the arrested rebel leader. 

 DCP (Special Cell)   said that Khoirom was arrested from Mayur Vihar in east Delhi along with a woman associate. “Khoirom came to Delhi from Nepal. A bus ticket from Banwasa was found on him,” Yadav said. Two Chinese hand grenades and a 9mm pistol were recovered from them. 
 
 “The arrested woman,  , 26, handled the day-to-day jobs of the outfit and wrote extortion and kidnapping letters to be delivered to targets,” said Yadav. “After their arrest, police also conducted a raid in Imphal and took in another associate, Pukhrihongbam Ibomcha.” 
 
 While the cops are hunting for the person Khoirom was to have met in Delhi, they are also questioning the KCP militant about his purported plans to target the office of a political party in Delhi. 
 
 Given that elections are slated in Manipur for March, the cops have not ruled out the involvement of some foreign players and terror funds being employed in the run-up to polls. 
 
 In this context, police linked Khoiram with Manipur MLA Thousaojam Shyamkumar, whose close associate, Inobi, is alleged to be involved in an extortion and kidnapping racket with KCP. 
 
 Shyamkumar was arrested in 2006 by Delhi Police on charges of being a member of a terrorist outfit and sent to jail. He fought elections from prison, and after winning from Andro, become the deputy speaker in the legislative assembly. 
 
 Intelligence agencies had been on the lookout for Khoirom “on priority” since last year after apparent links with foreign players surfaced. In July, three of his cadres were arrested with Chinese-made hand grenades, sources said. Last February, KCP men had opened indiscriminate fire on a restaurant in Imphal, killing three and injuring dozens.
 
 The Special Cell is interrogating the three people to ascertain the source of the weapons and grenades they used. Sources claimed Khoirom was in touch with a middleman (name withheld) from the   tribe and procured the grenades from Chinese “suppliers” through Myanmar.
 
 Khoirom began as a logistics assistant for the underground Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup. He was detained by the armed forces in 2007, and arrested in 2008, only to secure bail and move to Nepal. Giving Khoiram’s police history, DCP Yadav said, “In July 2010, he planted a hand grenade at a doctor’s house in an extortion bid. 
 
 In 2012, he hurled a hand grenade at the house of an engineer. In 2013, he was arrested on attempt to extortion charges. Four months later, out on bail, he opened fire at another engineer’s house. Three months later, he planted a bomb at a school and demanded extortion money of Rs 30 lakh from manager of a bank. He also planted bombs at two businessmen’s houses.”
 
 
