VELLORE: Financial aid worth Rs 370 crore meant for girl students of Scheduled Castes ( ) under the National Scheme of Incentives to   for Secondary Education, which was launched nine years ago, is yet to reach the beneficiaries “due to technical errors in the delivering system,” according to the state government.

 The Union government had sanctioned Rs 36.38 crore to benefit 87,166 girl students in   in the academic year 2008-2009. Nine academic years have passed, but the financial aid allocated to the first batch of students had not been disbursed to their respective accounts, S Karuppaiah, state deputy joint secretary of Dalit Liberation Movement, Tamil Nadu, told TOI. 
 
 Since the launch of the scheme, the Central Government had allocated around Rs 370 crore for the beneficiaries in the state, he said, adding, “The scholarship fund is locked somewhere.” The scheme was designed to promote enrollment among the girl students belonging to SC/ST communities and retained up to class XII. Under the scheme, Rs 3,000 would be deposited in each student’s bank account after they enrolled in Class IX. The students, who pass class X board examination, were entitled to withdraw the money with interest after they attain 18 years.
 
 The lethargic approach of the state government and poor execution of the scheme on the part of the banking sector have rendered the scheme ineffective. “The pending in the disbursement of the incentive to the students is due to the technical uploading error between the Canara Bank, New Delhi, and public financial management system (PFMS),” said Tamil Nadu school education secretary T Udhayachandran, in an official communication to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC). A copy of the letter is available with TOI.
 
 When contacted, Udhayachandran said the state government did not have details about the scheme. Hence, they have written to the Ministry of Human Resources Development, seeking specific details since the launch of the scheme. “After getting the details, we will look into the issues for non-disbursement of the financial aid to the beneficiaries and take appropriate action,” he said.
 
 In the letter, Udayachandran said officials at the bank were unable to show the success date and the “rejected date” of the beneficiaries between the bank and the PFMS. It is found that there is no specific beneficiary tracking system to cull out unsuccessful or error data. The TN government is also not in a position to find the unsuccessful or error data as the scheme is designed under the direct benefit transfer system. “The issue was taken up by the Director of School Education with the senior manager of the bank to expedite the process and disburse the amount to the remaining beneficiaries for the year 2008-2009,” he said in the letter.
 
 Karuppaiah said that except the 2008-2009 academic year, the state government did not mention about non-disbursement of the fund to the students in the following years. “We are planning to hold a demonstration in Delhi soon to highlight the lack of coordination and poor execution of the scheme. The response of the government to NCSC has also exposed the lethargic attitude of the government,” he added.
 
 
