VADODARA: A bitter war of words has erupted between vice chancellors (VC) of Kamdhenu University and VCs of four other agriculture universities of Gujarat. 

 The unprecedented situation has arisen with MC Varshneya, the VC of Gandhinagar-based Kamdhenu University (KU) demanding that several colleges governed by agriculture universities of Anand, Navsari, Junagadh and Dantiwada be brought under his varsity. 
 
 Varshneya’s demand has set off angry exchanges of letters between him and his counterparts in the four universities, some of whom have dubbed it as a move to nurture his own personal ambitions. In a letter to the agriculture department, Varshneya has said that at least one veterinary science college, fisheries science college and dairy science college governed by the four state agricultural universities should be transferred to KU so that it can get the mandatory accreditation from the   (ICAR).
 
 In 2003, the Narendra Modi-led government had split the   (GAU) into four separate universities –   (AAU), Sardarkrushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University (SDAU)   (JAU) and Navsari Agriculture University (NAU). KU was set up in 2009 for research in veterinary and animal sciences including dairies and fisheries. 
 
 AAU VC Dr N C Patel and SDAU VC Ashok Patel have termed Varshneya’s claim as “false, frivolous and misleading”. 
 
 SDAU’s VC Ashok Patel, who has raised the issue with principal secretary of Department of Agriculture and Co-operation, has termed the move as Varshneya’s “hidden agenda”. 
 
 “In the proposed amendment in Kamdhenu University Act, 2009, there sounds to be a hidden agenda of extending the tenure of first vice-chancellor (prof Varshneya). Under section 62 of Kamdhenu University Act, tenure of first vice-chancellor is fixed as three years. In the proposed amendment, the tenure of the first vice-chancellor is proposed to be made five years,” he has alleged in his letter. “Instead of raising the demand of transferring the existing colleges, Varshneya could have convinced the state government for creating new colleges,” he stated. 
 
 Going a step further, he has even opined that “looking to the financial crunch of the state government, it would be prudent to dissolve KU and merge the existing constituent college of dairy science with JAU and the Polytechnic College at Himmatnagar to SDAU.” 
 
 Dr NC Patel in a letter addressed to agriculture minister Chiman Sapariya has alleged that since KU’s earlier efforts to get the colleges transferred had failed, it is now making the demand by unnecessary raising the issue of ICAR accreditation. 
 
 “KU can very well expand its horizon by setting up new colleges instead of making desperate attempts to get existing colleges of other state agriculture universities transferred to it,” his letter states, adding that as AAU VC Varshneya himself had opposed such move. 
 
 Of the total 73 universities in the country, 62 universities presently have ICAR accreditation of which 12 universities have only one college affiliated to them. 
 
 “If self-study report is properly prepared, KU, which also has a dairy science college at Amreli attached to it, can also get accreditation from ICAR,” his letter states. 
 
 Varshneya hit back at AAU VC and wrote to the animal husbandry minister Babu Bokhiria, terming Dr N C Patel’s correspondence as attempt to “mislead” the state government. 
 
 “If ICAR provides accreditation to universities which have just one college attached to it, I am ready to proceed on long leave during which Dr N C Patel should be handed over the charge of KU and complete the accreditation process. If he succeeds in getting accreditation, I will never return to take charge,” Varshneya stated.
 
