GAYA: Incidents of road accidents have registered a 7% decline after the imposition of   in   district. This was revealed by district transport officer Khursheed Akbar at a seminar organized by Yuva Prayas, an activist group engaged in raising awareness about road safety, on   campus on Thursday.

 Seminar organizers Kaushalendra Kumar Singh and Shamimul Haq said there was one road accident every minute in the country and one life was lost every four minutes. “Around 90% of the victims are in the age group of 15 to 29 years. Cyclists and bikers account for half of the deaths and most of them come from the lower income group of the population. Strict observance of traffic rules and improvement in the quality of roads can significantly bring down the number of deaths. In small towns, use of helmet by bikers and pillion riders is rare,” they added.
 
 They also identified Kashinath Mor, the road-over-bridge on level crossing no. 2, M G College Mor, Khatkachak Bypass, Muffassil Thana Mor and Gaya College Mor as accident prone areas of the town and said urgent steps were required to make them traffic friendly.
 
 Singh and Haq also regretted the non-opening of the proposed trauma centre for accident victims on the   and Hosptial premises. The Union government released Rs 80 lakh in advance for the nine-bed trauma centre which is estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 6 crore. However, no headway has been made in this respect. Due to non-availability of a neurosurgeon in the ANMMCH, most of the accident victims are referred to Patna and many of them die on way to the state capital.
 
 According to the organizers, the road construction department and the power distribution company have been at loggerheads over the relocation of mid-road electric poles in several areas, including Swarajpuri Road and North Church Road. “If power distribution company DGM Rakesh Ranjan is to be believed, the firm is ready to relocate the poles, but the cost of relocation has to be borne by the road construction department. As a goodwill gesture, the power company has relocated some poles on the  ,” Singh and Haq said.
 
 
