BENGALURU: A woman died and another was critically injured when the government bus they were travelling in caught fire near Nelamanga la toll booth on   on Tuesday morning.Three other passengers, including a five-year-old, suffered minor burns.

 The dead woman has been identified as Bhagyamma, 58, a resident of Peenya in Bengaluru. The non-AC   bus was plying from Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district to Bengaluru and had 26 passengers on board.
 
 The fire was noticed in the bus around 12.15am when most passengers were asleep.
 
 The driver and the conductor raised an alarm and woke up the passengers. The vehicle didn't have a fire extinguisher.KSRTC officials ruled out any problem with the bus as engine, battery and other inflammable parts of the vehicle were found intact. An investigation has been ordered into the incident, an official added.  , a taxi ver who made the call to driver who made the call to the fire control room, said he was driving a passenger from Bengaluru to Shivamogga when he saw the bus on fire.“We were around 1km ahead of   when I saw the fire. People were pulling out a woman, who was severely burnt. I parked my car and gave them a hand. She was screaming in pain,“ he said.
 
 Gowda called the fire cont rol room and later received a call from the police. “I guided them to the spot and continued with my trip,“ he said.
 
 Fire control room officials said they reached the spot at 12.37am. “People told us there was no one on the bus.The fire was put out in half an hour. It was only when our officers entered the bus they found a body by the engine,“ said a control room official. Police said Bhagyamma was retur ning from Nagamangala after attending a relative's funeral.Her relatives had dropped her at Bellur Cross on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway from where she had caught the bus. She had asked her son to pick her up once she reached Bengaluru.
 
 A district fire officer said people at the spot didn't tell them someone might have been trapped inside the burning bus. “We assume she was trying to get out of the door on the driver's side but couldn't make it. The bus had an emergency exit, but no one opened it in all the confusion,“ he said.
 
 Another passenger, Mamatha, 35, is critically injured and is undergoing treatment at Victoria Hospital. Her son Yashwant, 5, suffered minor burns and was discharged after treatment.
 
 Dinesh, 37, and Padmanabha Shastry, 55, the two other injured passengers, are being treated at   government hospital.
 
 
