MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India has ruled out any additional facility for exchange of demonetised currency of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denomination even as several people lined up outside the bank’s office in Mumbai.

 A day after TOI published a report on how the doors are permanently shut for those who missed out on depositing demonetised currency, several depositors gathered at RBI’s headquarters in Mumbai and engaged in an impromptu protest after they were turned away.
 
 Most of those who turned up were carrying small lots of banknotes of below Rs 10,000. The general excuse was that these were kept aside by women in the household or senior citizens and discovered late. There was one person who had Rs 65,000 in old notes, which made him an offender following the promulgation of the ordinance on demonetisation. “We feel sorry for them but there is nothing that can be done. The government ordinance overrides everything,” said RBI officials.
 
 Returning non-resident Indians can deposit up to Rs 25,000–the maximum amount of foreign currency that can be taken abroad. There is no cap on the amount of deposits in scrapped notes that can be made by Indians who had been abroad during the entire period of demonetisation. However, RBI is sharing data with the Income Tax department and large depositors could face questioning. Although the deposits are being made at RBI, the central bank credits the amount directly to the depositor’s bank account and there is no exchange facility. Large deposits will trigger suspicious transaction alerts and be reported to the financial intelligence unit.
 
 The central bank has not insisted on Customs receipts from NRIs as on the first two days the Customs had not issued certificates to those who were bringing in old currency. As a result those who returned to India between December 31 and January 3 are being allowed to make Rs 25,000 deposits.
 
 RBI said that NRIs and Indian residents who were out of the country between November 8 and December 30 could deposit their banknotes in RBI offices in Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, and Nagpur. This open for residents till March 31 and for NRIs till June 30.
 
 
