HYDERABAD: Coaching institutions in the city are all set to introduce digital platforms for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) aspirants after the   declared that the JEE (Advanced) will be conducted in a computer-basedtest-mode on May 20, 2018.

 This year, of the 1.5 lakh candidates who appeared for the JEE (Advanced), 25,391 were from   and  . Expecting a similar turnout even next year, coaching institutions are gearing up to acquaint aspirants with the new examination format.
 
 The  , which trains over 5,000 aspirants, has developed a new software ­  . “The pilot run of the software will begin from October 8 at all centres wherein students will take mock online tests. The software is designed with features such as error analysis, doubt clarification, sub-topic doubts, live clarification, common ranking system etc. which will help students trace their progress,“ said P Prameela, academic head of Narayana Group, which is also planning to issue tablets and login ids to its students for them to take the mock tests.
 
 According to the JEE (Advanced) website, the exam will consist of two papers, Paper 1 and Paper 2, each of three hours. Both the papers are compulsory . Apart from mock tests, coaching institutions are also introducing additional features to enhance the students' performance. “We will introduce topic-wise test, revision modules, paper discussion through video lectures, e-mailers etc. Students can exclusively enrol with us for our e-learning platform for practice,“ said Venkat Ramana, JEE exam head at TIME Institute, Hyderabad, adding that the computerbased mock tests are expected to begin from mid-October as the institute is in the process of developing a question bank for the e-learning platform.
 
 For other institutes, platforms such as Toppr.com have come to the rescue as many are tying up with various edutech start-ups. At present, a total of 10,998 seats are available in all the IITs. The ministry of human resource development is considering enhancing the intake in popular courses from the next academic year apart from 14% hike in seats allotted to female candidates.
 
