Nearly 500 buildings that are beyond repairs are proving to be a major worry for the   ahead of the  . Despite declaring them  , the   is struggling to get them vacated owing to court cases, protests and other technical issues.

 Rickety buildings pose great danger not only to those living in them, but also to structures in the vicinity, particularly during rains.
 
 According to a report by the BMC’s anti-encroachment department, Mumbai had 816 ‘extremely dilapidated’ buildings as on April 27, 2017, with Kurla topping the list at 113, followed by Ghatkopar (80) and Wadala/Matunga (77).
 
 So far, the corporation has been able to demolish 196 structures and vacate 134. This leaves 486 crumbling buildings escaping the BMC hammers before the rains. Despite the potential risks, officials say, residents in many cases refuse to move out.
 
 “In some cases, residents have managed to get a stay from the court, while in a few cases the BMC’s technical advisory committee is yet to take a call,” said a senior civic official. The technical committee proceedings involves hearing both parties over multiple sessions and is a timeconsuming process like the judiciary, he said.
 
 The civic body puts buildings that have fallen into disrepair in three categories – C1, C2 and C3. Structures that can be repaired to stand for next few years are marked as C3; those in need of extensive structural help are put in C2 category.
 
 Buildings that are beyond repairs and need to be razed immediately get the C1tag. The civic body issues notices to residents in such structures asking them to vacate the premises. If they follow the order, water and power supply is disconnected.
 
 The BMC plans to pull down 134 vacated buildings by May 31. Officials said they are awaiting verdict from the technical committee in 21cases.
 
 “Demolition of dilapidated buildings is a complicated process. We are taking continuous follow-up with ward officials to ensure the deadline is met,” said Ranjeet Dhakne, deputy municipal commissioner (removal of encroachment).
 
 There are 18 vacated buildings that cannot be demolished as there is a stay order from the court, he said.
 
 Defining ‘dilapidated’
 
 BMC ward offices carry out routine visual inspections of building within their limits. If they suspect a structure is weak, they carry out structural strength tests to ascertain the condition. Depending on the outcome, BMC issues a notice to the residents and asks them to carry out repairs or redevelopment. If the residents are not satisfied with the BMC notice, they can undertake a structural audit of their own.
 
 If there is a mismatch in the audit reports, the matter is referred to the technical advisory committee. In many cases, residents appeal the decision of the committee in court.
 
 If residents continue to occupy a dilapidated building despite rejection at all levels, the BMC disconnects their water and electric supply. This is followed by an evacuation drive led by the police and demolition.
 
 
