NEW DELHI: The 
  dates back to 2012 when  , with the then CM,  , as its chairperson, awarded tenders for hiring 385 stainless steel tankers from private companies.

 However, the FIR filed by   (ACB) in June 2016 mentions both the Dikshit regime as well as the Kejriwal-led AAP government on the basis of two complaints.
 
 On Saturday, Kapil Mishra again kicked off a storm by writing to ACB chief Mukesh Kumar Meena to expedite the investigation and alleged that the probe, for a long time, had been moving at a snail's pace. Mishra is likely to meet Meena on Monday.
 
 On June 19, 2015, the AAP government set up a fact-finding committee on the tanker deal which, in its report submitted in August, alleged a scam of Rs 400 crore. The committee found that a consultant had been appointed arbitrarily on nomination basis, causing a loss of Rs 36.5 crore to the exchequer. Though the tender of a company was rejected on the ground that it was the only application, work was awarded later to another company on the basis of a single tender. The committee said the work was given at higher rates compared to the rates quoted by another firm at Rs 323.9 crore.
 
 After the report was submitted, the then DJB chairperson, Mishra, wrote to CM Kejriwal, asking for an FIR to be lodged against those involved in the scam. On June 16, 2016, the 
  after leader of opposition   wrote to him demanding a probe against Kejriwal as well for not scrapping the contract. Soon, ACB of the Delhi government registered the FIR on the basis of Mishra's report as well as the complaint given by Gupta.
 
 The FIR was registered under Section 13 (1D) -misuse of power - of Prevention of Corruption Act, along with two sections of IPC-Sections 120B and 409. While IPC 120B refers to hatching a criminal conspiracy, Section 409 deals with criminal breach of trust by a public servant.
 
 Thereafter, ACB questioned Mishra on the report submitted by him. In July 2016, it sent a notice to Dikshit. ACB also questioned the members of the fact-finding committee to understand how they conducted the inquiry and arrived at the figure as the loss of revenue due to the alleged scam.
 
 In August, it finally examined Dikshit. A four-member team went to her home and handed her a list of 18 questions for written replies.
 
