BENGALURU: One liver split into two, with one part each going to two recipients. This was a medical feat of another kind. A team of 40 doctors, nurses and technicians from a city hospital successfully conducted the 30-hour procedure across four operation theatres at the same unit.

 While the bigger half of the organ went to 63-year-old Meeramma, 23-month-old Ayush got the smaller part. The third recipient, Rishabh, 9, underwent a domino transplant, receiving Ayush’s healthy liver that was intact.
 
 Ayush who was suffering from Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD), a genetic enzyme defect affecting all organs, was in need of a new liver to produce an adequate enzyme required for normal functioning of the body.
 
 The donor, a 40-year-old man, was declared brain dead at Aster CMI Hospital after he sustained irreversible head injuries in an accident. Despite aggressive neuro-ICU support, his brain stem centre couldn’t be revived, though his other organs continued to function normally. The man’s family consented to the organ donation, offering a new lease of life to three people.
 
 Dr Rajiv Lochan, Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary (HPB) and liver transplant surgeon, who headed the Integrated Liver Care (ILC) team at Aster, said: "While Meeramma was suffering from a chronic liver dispute and was waiting for a new liver for six months, Ayush needed a healthy liver capable of producing the essential enzyme to lead a normal life. Rishabh was a patient of decompensated liver ailment, for whom a live organ transplant was getting difficult as we couldn’t find a matching donor. However, with Ayush undergoing a transplant, his liver could be given to Rishabh."
 
 "The donor’s liver was split into two and the larger half was successfully transplanted on the woman and Ayush received the smaller half. This depended on their body weight. Ayush’s liver, which was otherwise healthy apart from its inability to produce an enzyme due to the genetic disorder, was transplanted on the nine-year-old boy. All the three transplants have been successful and the recipients are doing well," he added.
 
 Dr  , HPB and liver transplant surgeon; Dr Kaiser Raja, hepatology and liver transplant surgeon; Dr  , consultant, paediatric hepatology and Dr V Arun, anaesthesiologist joined Dr Rajiv to conducted the complicated procedure.
 
 "The best part is that three patients who were living with life-threatening conditions and could died without a new organ have won the battle of life. Also, domino transplant is a rare procedure and isn’t practised frequently in our country due to unfavourable conditions. It becomes difficult due to logistical issues," said Dr Asthana.
 
 The surgery began on March 18 and got over only on March 19, after 30-long hours.
 
 (Names of the patients have been changed)
 
 INSPIRING HOPE
 
 We had given up hope, when we came to know about our son’s rare disease. Most children suffering from genetic disorders aren’t cured. We are happy that the new organ will help my son lead a normal life. We are also glad that another young life has benefited from my son’s liver 
 
 Ayush’s mother
 
 
