NEW DELHI: Amid the tug-ofwar over whether the   (NMML) should remain a repository of information solely about India’s first Prime Minister  , or whether he should share space with other prime ministers who have followed him, the   administration has begun inviting applications for the appointment of academic consultants for setting up the ‘Museum on Prime Ministers of India’.

 The advertisements, put out on behalf of NMML director Shakti Sinha, seeks applications from academics retired or working in the field of history or political science as assistant or associate professors, or as professors.
 
 Academic consultants, the advertisement says, will be mandated with preparing the content for the museum on prime ministers. 
 
 The memorial, which gives visitors a glimpse into the working life of India’s first prime minister with his study, meeting room, among others, preserved as during his times, has been at the centre of a raging controversy over the construction of the new museum.
 
 Though the ministry of culture, under whose aegis NMML operates, has maintained that the existing memorial will not be disturbed, minister Mahesh Sharma also said this was merely an attempt to democratise NMML and give due credit to other PMs who have contributed to building India.
 
 In August, the NMML executive council had approved aproposal to invite global tenders for design plans for the museum on Prime Ministers. The meeting, held in early August, had ruled out replicating the existing   design and had recommended a design competition to select an architect or designer for the proposed museum.
 
 The Nehru Memorial, Museum and Library was founded in 1964 after Nehru’s death. The library, contains in its archives the bulk of Mahatma Gandhi’s writings along with private papers of C Rajagopalachari, Jayaprakash Narayan, Charan Singh, Sarojini Naidu and Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, among others.
 
 The site is spread over 45 acres and is a heritage landmark, including the Herbert Baker Building (1928) that houses the museum, the library building (1974) and a 14th century hunting lodge of Feroz Shah Tughlaq.
 
 
