MEERUT: Two days after a huge racket of poaching and international arms smuggling was uncovered during 17-hour long joint raids carried out by the   (DRI) and wildlife department at the house of a retired colonel and his national-level shooter son in  , DRI officials said shooter   may be the `kingpin' of a `global' syndicate.

 Notably, foreign connections in the case had started emerging after the DRI officials sent a Slovenian national Boris Sobotic Mikolic and two Delhi shooters ­ Amit Goel and another person whose name was withheld since his two kids are national-level shooters, to Tihar jail in 14 days' judicial custody.
 
 “From initial investigations, it seems that Prashant Bishnoi may be the kingpin of this syndicate, which has connections to foreign countries too. He is one of the main people in the gang but his role will get clear only after we arrest him. Efforts are being made to nab him,“ Raj Kumar Digvijay , additional director of DRI, Delhi, told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile,   department has also been roped in to investigate the recovery of Rs 1 core cash from the house of the Bishnois in Meerut.
 
 “We have also written to the Income Tax department about Rs 1 crore unaccounted cash that was found at Bishnois' residence and also contacted UP police to start investigation into weapons found at their house and check for any leads locally,“ the DRI official said.
 
 As many as 44 guns, 50,000 cartridges, skins of blackbuck and leopard, nine skulls of chinkara, blackbuck and barking deer - – eight with their antlers intact, two trophies – one each of blackbuck and sambar deer, one knife with an ivory handle, a whopping 117.5 kg animal meat said to be of nilgai kept in 45 packets in a freezer and Rs 1 crore cash were seized from the house of Bishnois in Civil Lines area of Meerut early on Sunday. A case has been registered by the forest department against shooter Prashant Bishnoi and his father Col (retd) Devendra Kumar Bishnoi, but no arrests have been made so far.
 
 Notably, Prashant Bishnoi has pictures with Bollywood stars, cricketers and politicians on his Facebook account; but DRI officials say that they were not going to involve them in the probe since they are public figures and get clicked with many strangers.
 
 Meanwhile in Meerut, a team of three scientists from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India, took the samples of 117 Kg meat that was seized from Bishnoi's residence for further investigation. The three-member team will probe whether the meat is actually of nilgai, as claimed by the family.
 
 Detailing, Mukesh Kumar, chief conservator of forest (UP West zone), said, “We collected 47 samples of meat that were seized from the spot in accordance with the protocol. The team from Dehradun had come here to provide technical assistance and the samples were taken in their guidance. The family had claimed it to be of nilgai but that will be clear only when reports are here.”
 
 "A sample of 10 grams from each packet has been taken and the investigating officer in the case – Sanjeev Kumar – has accompanied the team of scientists back to Dehradun," said Aditi Sharma, Meerut divisional forest officer.
 
