GURUGRAM: In what might be an example for residents across Gurugram, 83-year-old Dr V K Jindal single-handedly fought a   against a   and, at least for the time being, won.

 Jindal who is 50% disabled, retired as Punjab’s deputy director (health) and settled down in Gurugram. He invested his life’s savings in a 4BHK flat in   on Sohna road in 2004. In 2008, just before he was supposed to be handed over possession of the flat, he was asked by the developer to sign a tripartite agreement, which included buyers, the developer and the RWA, regarding the society’s maintenance, which the developer would continue to deliver, at the rate of Rs 1.25/sq ft.
 
 “I refused to sign the agreement, but the developer told all flat buyers we won’t get possession of our flats unless we signed it. Having paid up entirely, we had little choice, and gave in,” said Jindal.
 
 A year later, in 2009, the developer demanded an enhanced maintenance charge of Rs 2.85/sq ft from residents. Many residents protested, but later backed off when the developer cut the power supply. Jindal, though, persisted. “From February 28 to March 5, 2009, we had no power supply in our flat,” said Jindal. 
 
 He decided to act against the injustice by the developer, and approached the sessions court in Gurugram. After a series of arguments, the court decided in his favour. Meanwhile, the then RWA negotiated with the developer for a slightly lower maintenance charge, Rs 2.20/sq ft.
 
 The developer, though, decided to file a plea against the order in Punjab and Haryana high court in 2013. Jindal went through a period of economic and mental struggle, as he faced “immense harassment and humiliation”. “I got a lot of calls, where I was threatened and abused. Our neighbours asked us to move to   flats, since I couldn’t afford the enhanced maintenance charges,” said Jindal. Even his son was against his idea of filing a case.
 
 However, he persisted. In March 2015, the high court dismissed the developer’s plea and asked the district court to dispose the matter in six months. It took another year and nine months for the verdict to arrive. “Finally, the court decided in our favour in December 2016, declaring the tripartite agreement null and void, and asked us not to pay a paisa more than Rs 1.25/sq ft,” said Jindal.
 
 Not only does the order by civil judge Kamran Khan of Gurgaon court, dated December 22, 2016, call the tripartite agreement void, it also demands the developer to pay the excess amount it has collected from residents as maintenance.
 
 In response, the spokesperson of Vipul Limited released the following statement: “The company has already availed legal remedy against the impugned judgement before competent court of jurisdiction, and it shall await the outcome thereof.” The company filed its fresh plea with the district additional sessions court on January 18, 2017. Clearly, the story is not over. But for now, Jindal is basking in the glory of his victory.
 
 He said, “It’s not about money, but the principle. The builder is looting residents, and the RWA is hand-in-gloves with them.” He alleged there are many other areas where the developer was making money by duping residents and the government. Since the judgement, Jindal has become an inspiration for many residents of Vipul Greens, who have now decided to pay maintenance at Rs 1.25/sq ft. He is also getting calls from other societies, such as Sahara and Belmonte, for legal advice in similar matters.
 
 The humble man gives credit to his wife and daughter, who stood by him through thick and thin in the long battle.
 
 
