MUMBAI:   at   seems to have plateaued and the varsity has pressed all the buttons it needs to declare results by this month-end. On Wednesday, 3,500 teachers reported for assessment and they checked around 55,000 answer scripts. 

 The exam house, said insiders, has become like a call centre and is working round the clock. Scanning and uploading of answer books that used to take up morning hours has been shifted to late night hours after the day’s evaluation work ends, so that the internet speed is not slowed.
 
 Autonomous colleges who have their own examination and assessment are also chipping in by sending their faculty. 
 
 “‘By hook or by crook, assess.’ This has become the message that is trickling down from the authorities,” said a faculty member. “When the internet is slow, some of the teachers use their own cellphones as WiFi hotspot to assess papers,” said another. 
 
 Principal associations were told to keep their differences aside and work with the university in this time of crisis. “What we are seeing is that a lot of principals have been told if they step up right now, the   will nominate them to various committees of the university,” said a member of the BUCTU. 
 
 According to the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, the vice-chancellor has the power to nominate close to a dozen people to various committees and the senate. “Some of these principals are eyeing the posts and asking their faculty to attend to evaluation work, sometimes by even skipping some lectures,” said a source.
 
 But till date, some teachers who have registered for   assessment have not received their passwords. Examination controller   said, “The teacher turnout is improving and we will be able to declare most of the results in a week. Close to eight lakh answer scripts are yet to be assessed.” 
 
 This assessment work, he added, required a lot of adjustment from the teacher community. “Faculty over 50 years of age are finding it difficult to spend so many hours in front of a computer. Yet, they are all doing their bit,” he added.
 
 Even faculty from autonomous colleges such as Somaiya and St Xavier’s College, are landing up for assessment, said Wasave. However, teachers from management institutes have a low attendance ratio; similar is the case with law and some unaided courses that don’t have full-time teachers; minority colleges, too, are not mandated to participate in assessment duty. 
 
 But that has not stopped the university from getting principals to make calls to teachers and push them to the assessment centres.
 
