AURANGABAD: New political equations are emerging in the district with the Shiv   and the   coming together on Tuesday to stall the BJP from installing its chairmen in at least two panchayat samitis. 

 The two traditional rivals joined hands to keep BJP away from the Aurangabad and Soegaon panchayat samiti. Many observers feell that the development considering the speculations that the Shiv Sena might go with the Congress in the   elections due on March 21. The NCP too may join the bandwagon.
 
 Congress nominee Tarabai Ukirde was elected the Aurangabad panchayat chairman, while Shiv Sena nominee Kavita Rahod won the deputy chairman’s post. Both of them polled 11 out of 20 votes. 
 
 Soegaon having six-member panchayat samiti, the Congress won three seats, BJP-2 and the Shiv Sena one. The lone Sena member Sahebrao Janglu Gaikwad, threw his weight behind Dhramsingh Chavan making his victory easier and in turn, he was elected deputy-chairman.
 
 It may be noted that while speaking at a programme in Nanded on February 26, NCP chief   had said that the Congress and the NCP are in a position to win zilla parishad election in 18 to 19 districts. “Though he didn’t hint at the possibility of a Sena-Congress-NCP alliance then, if it happens at Zilla Parishad level, it will be a cause of worry for the Fadnavis government in the state,” said a Sena leader.
 
 In the district, the BJP, however, managed to install its chairmen in at least five panchayat samitis out of nine tehsils, including Khuldabad, Vaijapur, Sillod, Phulamri and Gangapur, while Sena that had gained absolute majority in Paithan installed the chairman and deputy chairman on its own. 
 
 In Gangapur, the BJP proved to be luckier than Sena as its nominee won the seat in the toss as both BJP and the Sena candidates had polled nine votes each. But, the Sena nominee proved luckier in the deputy-chairman election, as toss this time favoured the Sena.
 
 In Vaijpaur, the chairman position was reserved for a scheduled tribe candidate. Despite having just three members, the seat went to BJP nominee Indubai Sonwane, while NCP nominee Prabhu Barse won the deputy chairman post in the 16-member panchayat samiti. 
 
 She was the only ST candidate in the panchayat samiti and was eventually declared elected. Incidentally, here the BJP had an alliance with the Sena, but the Sena members crossed over and elected NCP man as the deputy chairman. The Sena has seven members, NCP 5 and the Congress 1.
 
 In Kannad, the Raibhan Jadhav Vikas Aghadi led by Shiv Sena MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav won the panchayat samiti election with the Congress support.
 
 In 16 member panchayat samiti, the Aghadi’s candidate was elected chairman while the vice-chairmanship went to the Congress that has two members. Incidentally, the Sena and the BJP too had contested the elections. The Sena candidate that was supported by one NCP man and received four votes while the BJP nominee polled 5 votes, the aghadi and Congress alliance with seven members won the election. 
 
 Harshvardhan Jadhav, the Sena MLA and son-in-law of the state BJP president Raosaheb Danve, however preferred to join hands with the Congress instead of his own party and the BJP.
 
 “The high command has given us authority to take decision at local level, so that we could work for the people in rural areas,” said Nandeorao Pawar, the district Congress president. On whether the party would go for a repeat of the arrangement in the ZP chairman and deputy chairman election, he said “we may go for this arrangement provided our party higher ups give us a go ahead. The Shiv Sena district unit president Ambadas Danve also said that they formed an alliance with the Congress locally.
 
