BENGALURU:   informed the   on Thursday that it could take months to serve a   that has been issued against Vijay Mallya, since he is abroad.

 Justice B S Patil asked the government advocate what steps had been taken in the wake of a January 27, 2017 order issued by the court, wherein police were directed to serve a warrant on Mallya. The lawyer for the consortium of banks, which filed the  , informed the court that they would file an affidavit with documents containing information on the procedure to be followed in issuing the warrant to Mallya. Granting the request of the banks, the bench adjourned the hearing to March 10. A bailable warrant against Mallya was issued after he failed to appear before the court, despite an order from the court dated December 2, 2016. The case against Mallya pertains to loans granted by the consortium of banks, led by the State Bank of India, to the now defunct Kingfisher Airlines.
 
 
 
 
 Hearing a contempt petition concerning encroachment of the rajakaluve or government land by three malls, a division bench of the high court headed by Justice B S Patil on Thursday gave BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad time till March 20 to submit a compliance report.
 
 NGO Samarpana had originally filed a PIL seeking removal of encroachments by malls in Bengaluru. They subsequently approached the court again claiming non-compliance of a directive issued on the matter by a division bench headed by the Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee. In its PIL, Samarpana claimed that Orion Mall, developed by Brigade Enterprises, was built on a storm water drain (SWD) and B kharab land; ETA Mall was erected on land earmarked for a park at Binnypet; JW Marriot Hotel was built on a SWD on Vittal Mallya Road. The petition further argued that BBMP was authorized to remove encroachments on SWDs. Hearing the PIL on August 29, 2016, the bench headed by CJ Mukherjee observed that it warranted an investigation into the records, and directed the petitioner to make a representation to the BBMP commissioner.
 
