Dempo Sports Club are eager to have the best possible start to their season as they face Gokulam FC in the final of the 1st   at Duler   Stadium in   on Sunday.
 
  Former India captain Samir Naik has won most of his major trophies at Dempo and is optimistic to give his club another title in the capacity of head coach.
  
  Samir made his debut this season in his new role and is currently on a three-match winning streak after edging out FC Pune City in the semifinals.
  
  “On paper, Gokulam are a stronger team but our boys are positive and will give their best in the final. We still have injury issues with strikers Latesh (Mandrekar) and Joaquim Abranches both injured and we will take a call on them later. However, we are boosted with the return of Mario Mascarenhas (from suspension),” said Samir.
  
  Dempo have improved with every match and not conceded a goal as yet, but the scoreline isn’t all that encouraging. They have won all their fixtures by a solitary goal margin. Much will depend on midfielder Velito Cruz and striker Beevan D’Mello while young Nestor Dias has also proved to be good in front of the net.
  
  On the other hand, Gokulam which was launched only this year and were amongst the four outstation teams in the tournament, are determined to take the crown to Kerala.
  
  “Most of the boys are very young and didn’t play any big games. We are looking for the I-League so this is the right time to show the results,” said Gokulam coach Bino George.
  
  Gokulam striker Adeleja Somide scored a late winner in the second semifinals against Salgaocar FC on Friday. The Nigerian is looking sharp for the country’s premier competition which starts in November. He is currently the top scorer in the tournament with five goals including a hat-trick.
  
  “This was a big tournament for Gokulam. When I was with Viva Kerala, Dempo had very good players but I don’t see that talent now. But the new coach Samir will surely have a new plan. We too will come up with something special in the final. We need one trophy and this is our chance to prove ourselves,” said George.
  
  The teams will face each other for the first time. The final kicks off at 3.45pm.
