BHOPAL: Former chief minister and BJP veteran Babulal Gaur has dubbed the   by senior Congress leader   as ‘politically motivated’ ahead of the assembly polls in  .

 Gaur, to BJP’s utter surprise, also termed the Narmada Sewa Yatra held by chief minister   as Shahi (royal) yatra.
 
 “I have raised some queries with Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on his much-hyped Narmada Parikrama (circumambulation). If his yatra is not politically motivated, then he should complete the 3,000 km march on foot and keep himself away from political appropriations. But, it seems that he is contradicting his own claims,” Gaur told TOI on Friday.
 
 The octogenarian leader, who has been flowing against the tide and his own party, shares a very close and friendly relations with the Congress stalwart. However, this time he has objected the very cause of Digvijaya’s yatra along the banks of river Narmada and suggested him to take a helicopter or a car to fulfil his desire.
 
 “Normally, if Narmada Parikrama (circle) is performed with a religious or spiritual purpose, the devotee must resolve to complete the pilgrimage barefoot without any facility. It seems that Digvijaya has his own plans to motivate the entire entourage politically for a vested purpose,” said Gaur.
 
 The Congress leader will kick-off his six-month long pilgrimage from the holy Barman Ghat at Narsinghpur on Saturday after seeking the blessings of his guru Dwarka Peeth Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati.
 
 “The six-month long Parikrama is entirely a religious and spiritual exercise, as I will walk 20 kms a day, and nothing political should be read into it,” Digvijaya told reporters in Jabalpur ahead of the yatra.
 
 Interestingly, Gaur, with his unhindered views also targeted chief minister Chouhan saying Chouhan also held Narmada Sewa Yatra, but it was a Shahi (royal) Yatra.
 
 “The Narmada Sewa Yatra, held by chief minister Chouhan, was different from that of Digvijaya’s. Chouhan’s yatra was a Shahi (royal) yatra, where the chief minister used helicopters and cars to visit the banks of river Narmada,” said Gaur, who seems to have become a loose cannon since his daughter-in-law and former Bhopal mayor Krishna Gaur was denied a party ticket in 2013 assembly polls.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP leaders distanced themselves on the issue saying Gaur wanted to draw media’s attention and thus made such remarks. But, the veteran leader in his terse reply disapproved of the claim that such yatras create public awareness.
 
 Gaur’s remarks on Chouhan will create a flutter in BJP with Congress taking a chance to corner the ruling party over the issue, sources said.
 
 
