MYSURU: Rathna Shetty, a homemaker from Udupi district, moved to Mysuru long ago to teach her specially abled son Bharath Shetty at a school. Here, parents teach their respective children.

 When Bharath was 18 months they realized he was  . But after being trained at Rotary West and Parents’ Association of Deaf Children Trust for four years, he picked up speaking skills. Today, he is working as a software engineer in Bengaluru. But Rathna has continued to extend her services at the special school. She has now become the secretary of the 36-year-old trust.
 
 Pooja Baliga and  , 28, is another mother-daughter duo which has shared the teacher-taught relation here. “When my daughter joined the institution, it was too late -- we learnt about her disability in hearing when she was a toddler. We trained her here for four years, and this period offered us an amazing experience. My efforts to see her progress have paid off. Today, not only does she design jewellery, but has also done diploma in jewellery design,” Pooja said. 
 
 There are over 1,500 such success stories associated with the trust whose motto is to reduce the number of deaf children in society.
 
 Practical approach to teaching
 
 The institution teaches children through their mothers and activity-based learning. The syllabus covers demo of objects, colouring/ paintings, sentence formation, and the like. Most importantly, the children are given a learning environment. “We have developed a system wherein mothers teach their children. This helps in addressing difficulties faced by children,” treasurer Dinakar Shetty said, adding: “Special children must be diagnosed early -- when they are 1 to 3 years -- and treated accordingly. We can prepare them to face the competitive world. We have a success rate of 90%.”
 
 The unique technique method helps   develop skill sets, enhance knowledge and adapt to behavioural changes as normal children do. “Most of the teaching is done practically as it imbibes great knowledge among children,” he said.
 
 During its 36th anniversary celebrations, the trust inaugurated new classrooms. The facility has about 26 rooms which house mothers who come from faraway places. At present, 130 students are learning at the institution.
 
