NAGPUR: In a major setback for the director of Central India Institute of Mass Communication  , the Supreme Court upheld the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s order that led to cancellation on his approval as a teacher under the Maharashtra University Act, 1994. 

 Mishra had challenged his disqualification as a teacher by then vice chancellor   in the HC. The NU had cancelled Mishra’s appointment as lecturer following his conviction in mark sheet and revaluation scam, infamous as Kochade scam, on February 24, 2011. The high court order had stripped Mishra of all privileges as a teacher. 
 
 A SC bench comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and Justice Uday Umesh Lalit dismissed Mishra’s special leave petition stating that it didn’t find any ground to interfere with the HC order. The apex court also passed a decree to dispose of any pending application filed by Mishra in the case. 
 
 The hearing was held on March 3. Counsels for petitioner were D Kumanan, Sachin Pujari and Saurabh Mishra. Arpit Rai, Nishant Katneshwarkar and Asha Goplan Nair were counsels for the respondent, the Nagpur University.
 
 On August 3, 2012, the Nagpur bench of   had upheld Sapkal’s order to cancel Mishra’s approval as lecturer because of his conviction in Kochade scam. 
 
 The former VC had exercised powers vested in him under the now repealed Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994. Under the ‘Disqualification for membership of authority’ section, a person shall be disqualified for being a member of any of the authorities of university if he/she has been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude. Sapkal had withdrawn the approval after some individuals brought Mishra’s conviction to his notice.
 
 Mishra had argued that the since his institute   is a ‘permanent no grant basis’ institution, the university or VC had no powers to act as disciplinary authority of all teachers or withdraw their approvals. He also pleaded that the VC acted with mala fide intention and issued the order on February 24, 2011. Also, his name was deleted from the   — Mass Communication. 
 
 In its order, the HC had said, “The petitioner (Mishra) failed to substantiate his allegations of malice and bias.”
 
 “The vice chancellor had enough material before him to withdraw or cancel the approval,” the HC noted, while ruling in NU’s favour. 
 
