PATNA: The current academic session 2017-18 began four months ago and half-yearly exams are slated to begin in September, but Class I to VIII students of government schools are yet to be given books, which they are entitled to get free of cost under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan ( ).

 SSA’s Patna district programme officer Ram Sagar Singh sort of washes his hands of the crisis. “SSA has not received supplies from the Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation Limited (BSTPCL),” he said on Wednesday.
 
 BSTPCL sources said the tender was issued in October last year, but it was yet to be awarded to any printing firm. However, BSTPCL’s managing director M Rama Chandrudu claimed that the books would be supplied to each block by the end of September.
 
 “The tender process is underway. The supply to government schools will begin from mid-August and hopefully end by September,” Chandrudu told this newspaper and added the books would be supplied in time from next year.
 
 As a solution of sorts, SSA’s Singh said, they collected second-hand books from passouts and also certain books from private publishers, which were distributed among students. “But hardly 35% of the students could be covered,” he said.
 
 According to Komal Kumari of Class VI in Rajkiya Kanya Madhya Vidyalaya-Lohia Nagar, there are around 40 students in her class for whom eight books have been given. “We have hardly studied. I don’t know what I’m going to write in the half-yearly exam,” she said.
 
 Adalatganj’s Ranjan Singh, a Class VI student of another school, regretted they faced similar situation every year. “I have borrowed few books from seniors,” he said.
 
 Bihar Education Project council’s state project officer Sanjay Kumar Singh said the exam would be conduct to check how much students learned in the classroom. “Teachers were given syllabus. If they followed it correctly and gave ample assignments, the students can comfortably write the half-yearly exam, which will be conducted from September 11 to 16 across the state,” he said.
 
 He further said assessment handbooks were provided to all schoolteachers last year. These books included questions and answers of each chapter. “If a student has solved this assessment book, s/he can score well as the annual and half-yearly exam questions are set from this,” he said.
 
 
