NAGPUR: Union transport minister   has hinted at another pilot project aimed at creating a centralized and integrated infrastructure facility linking bus stop, metro station and railway station in the city.

 Gadkari said the centralized facility could either come up at Ajni or  , while shifting the main railway station to Khapri, and will be part of Multi-Model Hub and Smart City project.
 
 Addressing the concluding function of two-day Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Summit organized jointly by Nagpur Municipal Corporation and Elets Technomedia Pvt Ltd on Saturday, the minister said the central government has already directed the state government in this regard. According to him, Ajni will be the best place for this multi-modal hub as railways already has a major land there. The ongoing Metro railway work near the jail, too, will make this an ideal location.
 
 Gadkari also announced that the National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) will construct 8km hyperloop transportation on the lines of buses on air that would have direct connection from Wardha road to Hingna Square on  . It will also be the first pilot project in the country and   is all set to invite tenders for the project, he said. The project will help the civic body to augment its revenue. 
 
 A research institute will also be set up in the country to study about the alternate source of fuels to curb pollution emission by petrol and diesel-run vehicles. The government has also approached the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) to help provide lithium-based battery. 
 
 “ISRO and the Automotive Research Association of India have jointly developed a lithium ion battery for automotive application. This technology power battery will be used to run small commercial vehicles with a bigger battery and a higher voltage,” he said.
 
 Another major factor of Smart City project is to make cities free of vehicular pollution. “The ministry has given its nod to operate 20 electricity-run taxis on pilot basis in Nagpur from May,” Gadkari said. Besides this, a project to operate bus from methane gas is on.
 
 According to him, at least 50 buses will soon start running in the city on bio CNG fuel, which would be generated through methane gas from sewage treatment plant operating in Nagpur. Another 600-700 autorickshaws in the city will also be converted into bio-CNG fuel.
 
 Under Smart City project, Gadkari pointed out that the development of entire city should be equal. He said old areas like Mahal too need development works. Citing an example, he said that a weekly vegetable market ‘Budhwari bazaar’ still operates from road outside his house in Mahal. He also urged the NMC to expedite the widening road works in old areas and develop markets to accommodate vegetable vendors doing businesses from roads. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis pointed out that Smart City project has to be citizen centric. “In fact, essence of Smart City is people’s participation and ownership of projects. City planners must engage and each every citizens to know their aspirations while implementing any project,” he pointed out. Citing an example, he said the municipal corporation is supplying drinking water to all. Ironically, the number of water bill defaulters outnumber the genuine bill payers by a huge number. “If citizens pay water bills, tariff of water can be much lower,” he said. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, transport commissioner Praveen Gedam, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, divisional commissioner Anoopkumar, police commissioner K Venkatesh among others were present at the conclave. On the occasion, two magazines, ‘e-governance’ and ‘Nagpur-First Super Smart City’ were also released. 
 
 Suresh Bhatt hall to be provided at rent of Rs2000 per hour
 
 The union transport minister Nitin Gadkari announced the Suresh Bhatt hall which is almost read will be provided for a nominal rent of Rs2000 per hour. The nominal rent is possible only due to solar panels which will reduce the cost of electricity. Earlier, the NMC could not think of this due to high electricity cost. Besides this, the basement parking will be used as a charging point for vehicles plying on electricity.
 
