New Delhi: It takes more than just learning to ride a motorcycle to control a high-power  . 

 Biking enthusiasts who are part of various biking clubs in Delhi have to undergo rigorous training in order to even venture out on city roads. Most of the sports bikes require extreme reflexes and controlled handling for Indian roads that are often crowded. Biking   say stronger laws pertaining to biking are the need of the hour.
 
 Essa Khan, who has been training youths to handle sports bikes in Noida, says many youngsters think professional biking is all about showing off half-learnt skills. “Almost all the time, bikers do not graduate from low-power vehicles to high-power ones. As a result, most of the bikers are unaware of the power they are riding on. They must be trained before they step out on the road with such bikes,” said Khan. 
 
 Delhi has more than 100 biking communities that organise trips and training programmes for members to handle high-power motorbikes. “We always recommend a rider to be aware of the ride they are on. Since there are no biker-specific laws in the country, there should be some way through which the government must rein in these practices. They give the general public a wrong impression about sports bike owners,” Khan added. 
 
 Neharika Yadav, a dentist-cum-professional super biker said parents who gift such bikes to their teenager children must be careful about how they use it. “There are proper gears and rules to drive these bikes rather than just zooming on city roads. There should be some checks and measures on who can ride these bikes,” she said. 
 
 Yadav has been trying to educate young bikers at various sessions. 
 
 Deepak Gupta, a veteran biker who is part of a group named ‘Group of Delhi Superbikers’, puts the onus of safety on bike manufacturers and the government. “In places like London, they have different licences for bikes having different engine power. The graduation from one to another should be monitored while issuing licences to such riders. In this case as well, the deceased tried to save an elderly person on a scooter and rammed another bike,” he said.
 
