ALLAHABAD: With the growing popularity of   (schools imparting Vedic teachings),   (VHP) has decided to set up as many as 10 new such schools in north India. 

 These schools are likely to be opened in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, and the new   will begin in July itself.
 
 Acharya Pankaj Sharma, principal of Maharshi Bhardwaj Ved Vedang Shikshan Kendra, Prayag, told TOI, "Vishwa Ved Sansthan (a VHP affiliate) is looking forward to recruit acharyas (teachers) under the expansion plan."
 
 He added that the Maharshi Ved Vyas Prathisthan, Pune and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) are currently running around 27 Vedic Vidyalayas across the country where over 1,000 children are being imparted lessons in Vedas and Vedang.
 
 "The city-wise list of the new vidyalayas would be finalized within a week," he said.
 
 Acharya Sharma claimed that there will be no admission of students in Prayag Vidyalaya this year as the authorities would upgrade it with more facilities as well as add new subjects. "At Prayag's two vidyalayas, as many as 55 students are pursuing seven-year course. The 10 new Vedic schools will accommodate scores of children willing to learn Vedas and Vedang," Sharma added. He claimed that keeping in mind the growing popularity of Vedic Vidyalayas, authorities are focussing on imparting quality education, strengthening the infrastructure as well as inducting new subjects. 
 
 "With limited seats available in Vedic Vidyalayas, at least 400 students usually apply for 20-25 seats every year and they have to go through written and oral test to qualify the exam. In the past three years, about 1,200 students had applied for admission in the two vidyalayas of Prayag region," he said.
 
 He also claimed that no fees was charged from students and on an average, Rs 4,000 is spent on a student monthly by the organisation. Apart from north India, Vedic schools are also running in Manipur, Kolkata, Jammu, Pune, Amrawati and Pushkar.
 
 The scope for   has increased manifold since   are offering graduation courses in yoga and related subjects. 
 
 "At Vedic vidyalayas, a seven-year course in Vedas is being offered to students and the academic session usually starts in July. The acharyas teach students with new methods of Veda learning. In the past five years, the craze for such schools has increased manifold and many western countries are even offering graduate level courses in Vedas, Sanskrit, Hindu philosophy, yoga, ayurveda, jyotish and medicine," Acharya Sharma added.
 
 
