LUCKNOW: After dominating the one for  , Muslims got the lion’s share in the third list of   too. Released on Saturday, the list has 27 Muslims among the total 100 candidates announced by party chief Mayawati.

 This is a significant rise over 2012 when the BSP boss fielded 20 candidates from the   from these constituencies covering a major part of central and east UP.
 
 In her first list of 100 candidates for constituencies covering west UP, Mayawati had announced 36 Muslim names. This came down to 23 in the second. In all, Mayawati has announced fielding 97   in the forthcoming assembly elections. She is expected to announce her fourth and final list on Sunday.
 
 The rise in Muslim candidates in the central and east UP gains significance in the wake of Mayawati seeking to play her Dalit-Muslim consolidation card in a bid to come back to power in one of the most politically crucial and populous state. Interestingly, it is not Dalits but the upper caste which has got the biggest share after Muslims — 26 seats, including 14 Brahmins and 11 Thakurs. Dalits have been fielded in only 23 reserved seats while OBC candidates account for 25 of the total.
 
 The list also comprises some of the prominent BSP candidates like party state president Ram Achal Rajbhar (Akbarpur); legislative party leader Gaya Charan Dinkar (Naraini), former minister Lalji Verma (Katehri) and MLA Indrajeet Saroj (Manjhanpur).
 
 In 2012, BSP had registered a win on 15 out of 100 constituencies for which it announced its candidates on Saturday. Mayawati has replaced three MLAs — Ayodhya Pal (Ayah Shah), Ramesh Kushwaha (Lalitpur) and Raj Narain (Mahoba) — with Dev Kumar, Santosh Kushwaha and Arimardan Singh respectively. Pal, facing a Lokayukt probe in a disproportionate assets case, had turned rebel against Mayawati in September last year after being denied a ticket. He later shifted his loyalty to Samjawadi Party after meeting chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 Mayawati has fielded Vivek Singh from Unchahar assembly constituency in Rae Bareli from where rebel BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya’s son Utkrisht Maurya had contested in the last assembly elections but lost. The BSP boss has retained Pooja Pal as her candidate from Allahabad west. Pooja is the wife of former BSP MLA Raju Pal who was murdered allegedly by the brother of mafia-turned- politician Atiq Ahmad in 2005.
 
 
