Yes   2.0 is coming! For all the tens of people who have kept on asking me “when it will happen?”, “when it will happen?”, It finally is happening. TP 2.0 is underway. It will be produced by   of Y-Not studios, the same people who recently gave us the brilliant Vikram Vedha. Sashi and Y-Not of-course executive-produced the original Tamizh Padam for Cloud 9. 

 And before any smart-ass out there can ask “Yaaru director?” Yeah, it’s me. 
 The film will once again feature the living-legend, actor Shiva as the protagonist. At this point, I would like to ask the media not to constantly draw parallels between us and the Scorcese-Robert de Niro collaborations... It’s not fair to them. 
  
 In the best traditions of method acting, Shiva will undergo intense training in Bangkok for two weeks. For what... I’m currently not at liberty to say. 
 
 But before all that… 
 Oru katha sollta saar…? 
 Sashikanth and I met about 14 years back in a client’s office. We were both corporate stooges at the time. Sashi was an architect and I was co-founder/creative-director at a marketing-consultancy. We were just starting out and filled with passion for our jobs. We kept in touch on and off for the next few years. 
 
 Meanwhile, my small company was growing rapidly. At one point there were 35 of us working out of our own 3-storey building. In 2009, we expanded to Dubai. We had offices on the prestigious Sheikh Zayed road. 
 
 And then the economy crashed. 
 We shut shop in Dubai. Things back home weren’t too good either, the slowdown was hitting every industry. At this point, my passion for advertising was at a pretty low ebb and I was looking to do something else. I thought it would be fun to produce content for television. Something like a tele-film. My partner at-the-time, Jayaraj, first mooted the idea of a spoof-film. I didn’t go for it immediately. Lollu Sabha was extremely popular then and I didn’t see how we would be different. 
  
 But one day I woke up with an idea “oru gramam... athula pirakura aambala kozhanthaingala kalli paal oothi konudraanga... orey oru kozhantha escape aagi goods vandi vazhiya Madras ku vanthu periya hero aagiduthu! 
 
 “Eureka! Eureka! 
 No, I didn’t run naked on the streets, but I was excited. 
 When I wrote the scene where the six-year-old Shiva grows up to his twenties by pedalling on his cycle, I was convinced. This would work. We continued to work on the script and soon had a complete first-draft. 
 
 When I was looking around for somebody to partner us in the project, I thought of Sashi. So one day we packed some beers and biryani and went for a picnic to the Chembarambakkam dam. There I pitched the idea to Sashi. I guess he was looking for something different to do too, and so, in the middle of a cool breeze and the aroma of mutton-biryani, Y-Not and Tamizh Padam were born. 
 
 We now needed a producer and so slowly started pitching the idea to some people. I won’t take you through the entire tragi-comic process, but I will tell one more story. 
 Sashi and I went to narrate the script to the production controller of a big film company. I did a two-hour narration where he didn’t move a muscle. At the end of it he said, “Nalla irukku thambi aana ithula vara scene laam erkanvey matha padangalla paatha maathiri irukey…” 
 True story. 
 Fortunately for us, another young man was also looking to do something different in his life. Enter  , our producer. Looking back, I’m still awestruck at what happened. 
 
 Meeting one: Script narration 
 Meeting two: Agreement signing 
 After that it was a picnic. Some of the best days of my life. 
 I still remember with goosebumps, the screen going up on the first day and the audience laughing for the first gag. 
 
 So we are back where it all started. 
 Sashi asked me to do TP 2.0 in the November of last year, but wanted no mention of it made until he was ready. He uses terms like ‘momentum’ and ‘harnessing buzz to business’. Once a corporate stooge... 
 
 The script is done. But you know, we keep making revisions every Friday. 
 I expect us to be on the floors in two months, soon after Shiva is back from his strenuous training. 
 
 But what’s TP 2.0 about you ask, what’s actually cooking? 
 All I can tell you is. 
 Veg seyyaporom.
 
 
 
 
 
 
