NEW DELHI: A likely collision was averted between two aircraft with hundreds on board at IGI Airport on Friday morning after the   asked the plane, which was about to get airborne, to reject take-off.

 This incident happened when an IndiGo flight from Ranchi was coming to land at runway 27 and an   plane was set to take off from the nearby runway 28 for Goa. These runways are not parallel and merge towards Dwarka side. The AI plane was taking off towards Dwarka and the IndiGo aircraft was coming in to land from Vasant Vihar side (which further on goes towards Dwarka).
 
 “The incoming IndiGo aircraft rejected landing at the last minute due to ‘unstable approach’ and took off again. The AI plane was also taking off in the same merging direction. Therefore, the AI pilots were asked to immediately abort take off,” said a senior air traffic control (ATC) official. Had both the planes continued to ascend in the same margin direction, it would have been a very close call indeed. Both were Airbus A-320 planes.
 
 “AI 156 with over 120 people on board was rolling at a high speed of 100 knots or 185 kmph to get airborne around 11.30am when the ATC asked it to reject take off. AI flight captain Amit Tyagi very skilfully managed to reject take-off. The AI Airbus A-320 safely stopped and then had to return to the terminal for checks on the brake assembly and tyres, which is mandatory after high speed rejects,” said a source. IndiGo said its flight 6E-398 “discontinued approach at low level and landed after a few minutes. At no point safety was compromised”.
 
 AI engineers were surprised to see that despite the high speed reject in this hot weather, the plane tyres did not burst or deflate and commended the skills of the pilots in doing this job. It finally took off for Goa at 12.50pm after all checks.
 
 A senior official of   (DGCA) said the IndiGo and AI planes rejected landing and take-off according to protocol and that there was no safety or collision issue involved. “Pilots are encouraged to go around,” the official said. 
 
 Asked if the AI plane should have to take off when another plane was coming in to land on a margin (not parallel) runway, the senior ATC official said: “The clearance to take off in such situations is given in anticipation that the other plane will land normally. It was a rare chance that the incoming plane had to reject landing and take off again, which required for this action to be taken.”
 
 IGI is the only airport in India that has three runways but due to airside infra crunch, the hourly aircraft movement remains way below potential. In such a situation, handling the massive traffic sometimes leads to situations like Friday’s mix-up. IGIA’s runway 27 and 28 cannot be used simultaneously as the two merge towards Dwarka side. The ATC wants this runway to be straightened and made parallel to the other two runways 28 and 29. However, this work may happen at the fag end of IGIA’s overall development plan as DIAL is first going to lay down the fourth runway, which will be parallel to runways 28 and 29.
 
