Bhopal: Bhopal   received 89 cases related to child abuse under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) in one year from April 2016. All 89 accused were booked under the relevant sections of the   Act.

 The data suggest the POCSO Act, aimed at protecting minors from abuse, is becoming a potent weapon to put curbs on child abusers. The law fast-tracks cases and plugs loopholes in the rape law (Section 376).
 
 Of 89 child abuse cases, 74 girls and 15 boys, all minors, were subjected to sexual abuse. The cases were registered with Special Juvenile Protection Unit (SJPU) and Bhopal Childline.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Archana Sahay, director of Childline, said these cases were only recorded by Childline and SJPU. “There are number of cases piling up at police stations and many such cases go unreported.”
 
 “Children being soft targets usually don’t report the case. Despite that we received 89 cases under the  . All accused were booked under relevant sections,” she said.
 
 The nature of these cases include abusing children with unnatural objects, rape and manipulating any part of a child’s body.
 
 “Though the law empowers children to speak up against any kind of assault on them, there are so many cases especially in case of boys who don’t speak at all. But there are also children, who muster courage and call at our helpline,” Sahay told TOI.
 
 Of 89 accused, 20 are minors in the age-group of 14-17, who were slapped with the stringent POCSO Act in one year.
 
 Besides, the Madhya Pradesh Child Rights Protection Commission (MPCRPC) received four cases in 2016 under POCSO, 10 under RTE Act, 13 cases under Juvenile Justice Act and 59 other cases.
 
 The child rights body found these cases were sexual and physical assault against children and other violations of child rights.
 
 Besides, there is also a concern about child labour in the state's capital. The issue came to light when the Childline recently rescued 3 children working as child labourer.
 
 Many cases of child harassment have come in from schools in other parts of the district, where students are subjected to severe punishment by the teachers.
 
 
