NEW DELHI: India and the Trump administration are working to deepen the existing defence and security relationships with both sides sharing perspectives, concerns and interests during 
  this week. Doval had a series of “productive” conversations with top national security leadership of the US, sources said. 

 The most important meeting was with defence secretary James Mattis. Mattis was the only one who had not so far had any high-level conversation with Indian officials and New Delhi was keen that this meeting was done early on. Defence and security form a big pillar of Indo-US relationship, covering vast areas from weapon and platform sales to sharing of strategic vision in the Indian Ocean Region and South-Central Asia. A Pentagon spokesperson said, “Mattis specifically applauded India's efforts to promote stability in the South Asia region. Both leaders reaffirmed building upon the significant progress in defence cooperation made in recent years.”
 
 Officials described the series of meetings as a “continuing engagement." Given the quality of engagement in the last couple of years of the Obama administration, India is keen to bring the Trump team to speed on issues of convergence and concern between the two countries. Officials said the conversations showed that both sides remain on the same page on major issues of defence and security. While there are some differences on the H-1B visas, India will not make it a major foreign policy hurdle with the US, leaving it to Indian and US firms to undertake their own lobbying. 
 
 The core of this week’s conversations was a reaffirmation of the security relationship. “Secretary Mattis and NSA Doval further discussed collaboration on a wide range of regional security matters including maritime security and counter terrorism,” the Pentagon spokesperson said in his readout. 
 
 Afghanistan formed a big part of the conversation with deterioration in the security situation in that country. As new political alignments threaten the campaign against Taliban and al-Qaida, India and US are finding themselves on the same side of the argument, which wasn’t always the case.
 
 
  
 
 Doval also met his new counterpart H R McMaster. Doval had earlier met Michael Flynn in January. Doval also met homeland security chief John Kelly, senators John McCain and Richard Burr who heads the all-important senate intelligence committee. 
 
 In the past few weeks, top Indian officials in national security and foreign policy –– 
  and Ajit Doval –– have spent time with their US counterparts, a sign that India and US could be heading to a summit meeting sometime soon.
 
