Hyderabad/Lucknow: In a tragic incident, a 19-year-old from   died on board a merchant   in Brussels, plunging the family in deep sorrow. From what it appears, Kshitij Singh Bisht had an accidental fall in the vessel MSC Damla belonging to the Mediterranean Shipping Company. 

 “We want a thorough investigation into the incident. We want the truth to come out on how he died and why he was sent to that part of the ship alone,” the victim’s twin brother Sagar Singh Bisht told TOI on Friday. Police in Brussels are also investigating the death.
 
 The family had tweeted to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj about the incident and she had responded. Following this, the Indian embassy in Belgium is helping the family get back the body to India.
 
 “I lost my beloved brother. He was a national-level   player. He won a bronze medal at the national table tennis championship in cadet division at Vijayawada in 2009,” Sagar said.
 
 His father Jitendra Singh Bisht is a table tennis coach at Sports Authority of India posted at Netaji Subhas Regional Centre, SAI, in Lucknow. A sobbing senior Bisht said: “He was a very sincere boy...a champion. My nephew has gone to Belgium. He told us they have preserved his body.”
 
 Kshitij, who was born on June 4, 1997, was thrilled about a prospective sailing career. 
 
 “He called me and said how happy he was. But now suddenly, we are informed about his death in a few days,” Sagar said. Kshitij’s body was found in the cargo of the ship on March 24, some hours after he had gone into the cargo area.
 
 Kshitij had complete his first year of college at Training Ship Rehman, Panvel and had to do complete 18-month on board training. He was a sponsored cadet of the Mediterranean Shipping Company which also has India offices. He was to become the 3rd Navigating Officer after his training for MSC.
 
 According to Sagar, Kshitij had left for London on March 24, and had boarded the ship in Brussels only three days before he died. “We suspect sheer negligence on the part of the company,” he said, demanding a probe into the incident by Brussels police and that Indian authorities take up the issue.
 
 PHOTO CAPTION
 
 A day before joining the ship, Kshitij uploaded a picture from London on a social networking site with the caption, “Wow!!!! What an awesome place it is, London you beauty. Feeling refreshed”
 
 
