AURANGABAD: Disrupted   has become a routine affair in the city.

 After a recent mega shutdown announced by the   (AMC), two new   developed near Chittegaon and Bidkin on the civic body’s main water supply line.
 
 To repair the leakages, the authorities abruptly availed yet another shutdown on Saturday night, disrupting entire city’s water supply system on Sunday.
 
 Nearly one third population of the city could not get tap water on Saturday and Sunday. Residents dependent on water supplied by tankers were also affected due to the shutdown.
 
 MIM corporator   said residents of Mill Corner, Narelibagh, Noor Colony, Azeem Colony and Dhanmandi have not received water for the past four days. “The residents were supposed to get water on Saturday, but they did not get tap water even on Sunday. People were not aware of the shutdown and are suffering more,” he said.
 
 Residents of these localities were seen visiting   elevated storage reservoir (ESR) to check water availability throughout the day. Residents of other parts too paid frequent visits to ESRs in their respective areas.
 
 Kiran Dhande, AMC sectional engineer said a major leakage had developed near Bidkin for which the authorities had to shut down the 700mm line on Saturday night. “We replaced about two meter long piece of pipe for which the line had to shut down. In addition to this, we also repaired faulty air valve at Chittegaon. However, the supply was restored on Sunday morning. The gap in supply would cause some inconvenience to the residents,” he said.
 
 The authorities claimed that these faults occurred all of a sudden due to which they could inform the residents about the shutdown.
 
 On March 16, municipal authorities have availed a mega block to carry out repair of as many as 35 leakages on both the supply lines. Subsequently, six new leakages developed in the line within seven days. The authorities again blocked the supply and repaired the leakages. And on Saturday and Sunday they again followed the same procedure.
 
 A senior engineer in the AMC, on condition of anonymity, said the possibility of further leakages could not be ruled out. “It is going to happen again and we will have to shut downdown the line and repair it. We know that people are suffering but there is no other option but to change the entire 45-km long old pipelines,” he said.
 
