NEW DELHI: Thousands of   activists from states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Eastern Uttar Pradesh as well as Punjab and Haryana gathered in   on Sunday afternoon to express their solidarity with   and its chief Chandrashekhar Azad who has been on run from UP police since his alleged role in Saharanpur caste violence. 

 While the police put the number around 7,000, the organisers claimed to have surpassed the 50,000 headcount which they were aiming for — the reality lies somewhere in between.
 
 Organised despite denial of permission from the police, the solidarity event — which was largely planned using social media — saw participation from a host of organisations like Akhil Bharatiya Chamar Mahasabh, All India SC-ST employees welfare association, Yuva Shakti Dal, Buddhist groups and left organisations like AISA and CPI. Vijay Prakash Ram (28) who works with Air Force in Baghpat drove 120km on bike. “I don’t support violence but we have had enough. We are now educated and the system can no longer trample us. Caste lines are hardening back home,” he said. Thousands like Ram had all got an invite through WhatsApp and had seen Youtube videos highlighting the alleged atrocities in Shabbirpur in Saharanpur.
 
 Ashok Bharti, Dalit activist and one of the coordinators for the event, said, “We want immediate withdrawal of the cases against the members of Bhim Army, arrest of all the culprits and fast track justice for Shabirpur victims and compensation to victims whose houses have been burnt. A national committee too is being formed that will monitor and fight back against such events. This protest is not ending here. Our aim is to uphold the constitutional values which are being trampled in UP.” 
 
 Azad, who appeared midway in the event, offered to surrender before police while vowing to continue his struggle. “A community whose youth don’t work for its welfare is a dead community.” he said. The protesters demanded that action be taken against the police officials of Saharanpur for their alleged discriminatory actions. 
 
 Dalit activist Chandrabhan Prasad who was present at the event called it ‘the new dalit politics’ and assertion of identity with symbols like moustache, Royal Enfield bikes and the title ‘the great chamar.’ “People now rightfully want to do what they have been deprived of from centuries and Azad has become its symbol,” Prasad added.
 
 Clashes and inter-caste violence had erupted in Saharanpur’s Shabbirpur village after some of its dalit residents refused to allow a procession by Thakurs to mark the birth anniversary of Rajput king Maharana Pratap after they were stopped to do the same at BR Ambedkar’s on April 14. 
 
 Members of the Dalit community had then tried to hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ to demand compensation but their request was ignored by the administration, following which they took to the streets. In the violence that followed, dalit protesters allegedly set fire to a police post and over a dozen two-wheelers in several areas of the city. Police had registered cases against Bhim Army and its chief for the violence. Azad had not been arrested by Delhi Police yet.
 
