It’s not easy being a young adult in a city like Mumbai today, more so in this era of information overload. Often described as the age of confusion, many choose to rebel, assert and express their individuality through art, music, fashion and other creative symbols. And as far as symbols go, those in their late teens and early twenties are getting themselves inked in abstract punctuation designs. Wishy-washy or romantic symbols like dreamcatchers, butterflies and fairies are not for them — give them a semicolon, any day.
The symbol has gained immense popularity among the young. Says tattoo artist Olly Alva, “I’ve done close to 20 of these semicolon designs recently. At least two to three people in a week want to get this symbol done — it’s minimalistic yet, says a lot.”
 The trend find its origin in pop singer Selena Gomez’s celebration of the success of her production,   — a mystery series centered around social media, high school students and mental health. The producer and cast of the show sported a   to mark the occasion. Reason: The punctuation mark signifies a pause rather than a stop, much like what it does to the structure of a sentence. It is perhaps this that the young relate to — a symbol that serves to acknowledge their turmoil and anchors it with a message of hope.
 Twenty-two-year-old lawyer Ninaee Deshmukh, who studies in Haryana, got one such design done during her visit to Mumbai. “I got a lotus tattooed with the semicolon serving as its stem. In the five years that I’ve been away from home (Mumbai), there have been too many ups and downs. It’s a way of telling myself that my story is not over. And just like a lotus, which blooms in mud, I will bloom wherever I am,” she elaborates.
 
 
 
 A fashion fad once, a tattoo is now being seen as a mode of communication for positivity. Tattoo artist   adds, “Depression and anxiety are two words that have been ruling the 21st century. We have all heard of people committing suicide for various reasons — ranging from failure in exams, embarrassment, break-ups, rejection and so on. So, people in today’s time use tattoos as a positive reinforcement and a way of rewarding themselves. It serves as a constant reminder of the success that they have achieved and the resolve to never give up. Besides, tattoos are perfect permanent souvenirs.”
 Besides punctuation symbols, other popular designs include birds, feathers, doves and dandelions. Aarushi Golchha, a chemical engineering student, got a line design of a kingfisher tattooed below her collarbone. “The tattoo symbolises freedom, hope and courage for me. My parents don’t know about it yet, but it’s the bravest thing I have done so far. I’m 21, and I believe, irrespective of change, this is the only permanent thing I will have in my life.”
 
 
 
 The world of tattoos is incomplete without spiritual symbols from across the world; they continue to be a rage. Adds Olly, “Various Adinkra symbols from Ghana and West Africa are gaining popularity. Many opt for the ‘Onyankopon Adom Nti Biribiara Beye Yie’, which stands for ‘By God’s grace, all will be well’. Similarly, Angelic Zibu symbols are the new-age rage.”
 Sushmita Singh, a 35-year-old homemaker from Santacruz, inked an Inguz design on her wrist. She says, “The symbol stands for fertility. It also signifies dealing with anxiety and any other kind of worry. It has only brought a positive perspective towards life for me.”
 
 
 
 
 For a heightened state of awareness.
 
 Implies that there is a secret message to which only you have the answer. It is often placed behind one’s ear and back of the neck. When the 
 symbol is shared with another person, it symbolises a special time or connect in their lives.
 
 Represents hope, salvation, composure, calmness and, on a more layered note, being emotionally anchored to someone.
 
 Freedom and peace.
 
 Generally moving forward, an arrow also signifies defence and protection from harm.
 
 Besides remembering someone special, it’s a reminder that death is just a heartbeat away.
 
 
