LUCKNOW: The   are set to evolve as a tourist destination for adventure sports in UP government’s bid to boost tourism potential in the region. 

 While Devangana hill in Chitrakoot looks forward to para gliding from September, aquatic sports like water skiing and rowing have been proposed for water bodies in Pahuj Dam Jhansi and Nirmal Dam of Mahoba. A rope way along the Lakshman Pahadi in Chitrakoot has been cleared. 
 
 Possibilities of night camping and trails near the Kalinjer Fort in Banda districts are being explored. The plan also includes Charkhari, which is touted as Bundelkhand’s Kashmir.
 
 The plan is being prepared by department of tourism in association with department of sports. Conceptual proposals related to tourism development in Bundelkhand have been cleared by chief minister   during the presentation made by the department last week. 
 
 Minister for tourism Rita Bahuguna Joshi said, “Schemes worth Rs 1,000 crore have been planned for different districts of Bundelkhand which is a treasure-trove for tourism sector. It is a great mix of history, mythology and natural beauty which can give employment to residents who battle for survival because of nature’s fury,” Joshi said.
 
 Chitrakoot, the place where Lord Rama is said to have stayed for 13 years during exile will be the Centre of development. A crucial Centre of the proposed Ramayana Circuit, it has been selected for PRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation drive) scheme. 
 
 Keeping Chitrakoot in the centre, the government has also proposed development of facilities in the Mirzapur and Bithoor. For example, a ropeway between Ashtabhuja and Kalikhoh temples has been proposed in Mirzapur. There is also plan to revive the   to hold water sport events in Bundelkhand which is about 115 kilometers away. 
 
 Sources in the tourism department stated that Bundelkhand is being rewarded through special schemes like this. “The region has given 19 MLAs who are thrusting development in the area. CM Aditya Nath Yogi and deputy CM Dinesh Sharma have already visited Bundelkhand districts,” said an officer in state government. 
 
 The BJP spoke about tourism development in its Sankalp Patra as well.
 
