KOLKATA: Her husband actor Nirmal Kumar’s biggest regret is veteran actress   Mukherjee has not yet been bestowed with a   or even a Padma award. Her daughter Mimi Bhattacharya regrets that she has just one Urvashi award (later known as National Award for Best Actress) in her kitty. But for Satyajit Ray’s Charu, who turns 75 on Friday, these are non-issues. “Forget me, even someone like   hasn’t yet got a Padma award. Mamata Banerjee has given her a Banga Vibhusan though,” she said.

 What she rues is the fact that there was no producer to fund her directorial ventures post her debut as a film-maker in the NFDC-funded “Atmoja” starring Jisshu Sengupta and Indrani Halder. “I could direct because I had worked with greats like  , Ritwik Ghatak, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar. But ‘Atmoja’ never got the publicity it deserved. Later, I had wanted to make a film based on Mahasweta Devi’s short story ‘Sanichari’. She didn’t even want any royalty for my adaptation. But there was no financer. Later, I had also conceived a story on test tube babies but I had no producer,” she said.
 
 Few know that the actor, who was famously described by Mrinal Sen as “extraordinarily ordinary”, is a good piano player who had turned down an offer from   to act in “Mera Naam Joker” because she wanted to work only in Bengali. “He had waited for six months for me to say yes. I said no because I had the assurance of a shelter, a bed to sleep on and food to sustain myself,” the actor added.
 
 Philanthropy has also come naturally to her. Once she was invited to Sonagachhi to attend a programme organised to launch the Sathi Sangha. During those days, she was looking after a Ray actor who was lying in his deathbed at a government hospital. Premendra Mazumder, who is the former general secretary of the Federation of Film Societies of India, recalled how she had given a fiery speech to the sex workers that day. “‘Both you and I work with our bodies. We use our bodies in a certain way when we perform as actors. You use your bodies differently in your profession. But never be ashamed of your job,’ she had said,” recalled Mazumder. 
 
 Even her decision to join politics was driven by her urge to help workers, who had lost their job, when the Star Theatre was gutted. 
 
 Today, she works in serials to keep herself busy. But no good film offers have come her way yet. “People with the right idea donot get funding. Those who have the funds don’t have the ideas.” 
 
 
