MARGAO: Despite being an independent legislator representing the Fatorda constituency, it was arguably Vijai Sardesai who assumed for himself the role of the principal Opposition party, compelling the Congress to follow the political narrative dictated by him over the last five years. Sardesai never tires of claiming that it was he who coined the term, ‘U-turn party’, for the state  , following the volte face it did on numerous issues; a sobriquet that soon gained traction.

 While this, perhaps, explains the sensitivity of the Fatorda seat in the electoral dynamics of Goa, its ultra-sensitivity was dramatized by the fact that the alliance talks between Congress and the   ( ) came to a naught over this singular seat just a day before the filing of nominations were to come to a close. 
 
 The episodehigh on drama and low on substance has only helped Sardesai play the victim game once again. The first time he did that was in the 2012 polls after the Congress denied him the ticket at the eleventh hour, leaving him with no choice but to contest as an independent. The “sympathy” votes, largely enabled Sardesai defeat BJP’s Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik who was aiming to represent the seat for the third consecutive term. And, by rejecting his alliance proposal for the upcoming elections to unite “secular forces” against the BJP, again at the eleventh hour, the Congress has allowed Sardesai to play the “poor me” character once again. 
 
 Political sources say that though Sardesai’s political moorings are rooted in Congress ideologylest one forgets, he was once the general secretary of the state Congress and helped plot strategies for the party bigwigshe has turned out to be an anathema to the very party whose poll campaign for the South Goa Lok Sabha seat he had single-handedly undertaken just two years ago. 
 
 “Whatever be the brand of politics he practises, Sardesai’s connect with the grassroots workers has been good,” a political observer says, preferring anonymity.
 
 Sources explain that the Fatorda MLA, through his various social initiatives under the banner of, ‘We for Fatorda’, and later, ‘Fatorda Forward’ and ‘Goa Forward’, has remained in touch with the voters. Promotion of various self-help groups for women has also contributed to his popularity in some measure, they say.
 
 Naik, who has been fielded yet again by the BJP, has the huge challenge of overcoming the personal appeal that Sardesai exudes. In a bid to counter Sardesai’s social initiatives, Naik also came up with innovative projects like a mobile health service, football coaching for youngsters, providing kitchen gardening kits for women, et al. Naik hopes that his multitude of social ventures will pay him rich dividends at the February 4 elections. His tenure as the vice-chairman of the Ravindra Bhavan helped him promote local skill and talent by organizing various cultural activities as well as art and craft initiatives. 
 
 On the other hand, the Congress has betrayed its bankruptcy of strategies to counter the Sardesai challenge. “In its bid to checkmate Sardesai on his home turf, the Congress forgot all about wresting the seat from him. Rather, it chose to field a weak candidate in Joseph Silva in the hope that he will split the ST votes and dent Sardesai’s prospects,” a political commentator points out. 
 
 Silva belongs to the ST community, which has a sizeable number of voters in this constituency. However, as four of the ST councillors of the   representing wards from Fatorda owe allegiance to Sardesai, the voting pattern of the tribals will be interesting to observe, political observers say. 
 
 Poll watchers are also keeping an eye on the behaviour of the RSS cadre and ‘Hindutva’ supporters, who constitute a sizeable population in this assembly segment. With the MGP fielding Dilip Naik as the candidate of the MGP+GSM+SS alliance, political sources feel Naik’s prospects would be further affected if these votes shift to the regional outfit.
 
 Though AAP candidate Ranjit Cotta Carvalho, is also a player to watch out for, he is unlikely to be a threat to the key candidates in this constituency, sources say. 
 
 Will Sardesai be able to march ‘forward’ in the February polls, or will Naik stop him in his tracks? Political observers are keeping their fingers crossed. 
 
 
