CHENNAI: Eating healthy food, and exercising to keep blood pressure under control, are just what the doctor ordered. But it’s time   take their own advice seriously. A blood pressure screening initiated by the   for more than 500 doctors across the country, including in Chennai, showed that despite medical knowledge, there was no difference in the incidence of blood pressure among doctors and the rest of the community.

 The Indian Medical Association, along with Heart Care Foundation of India and Eris Lifesciences, recorded blood pressure readings of 533 doctors in 33 cities on May 9. IMA president Dr KK Agarwal said it was done in an attempt to raise awareness about the benefits of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring – a non-invasive method of obtaining blood pressure readings over a 24-hour period.
 
 Doctors were asked to wear a cuff device for a day and the machine measured blood pressure at periodic intervals throughout the day. “As doctors, we should practise what we preach. We decided to evaluate the incidence of the disease among doctors so that we can raise awareness,” he said.
 
 The preliminary results of the day-long study released on Wednesday, World   Day, revealed that one in every five doctors had masked hypertension – a blood pressure that seemed normal when measured by the conventional technique but was actually high according to the ambulatory monitoring device. 
 
 At least 37% off the doctors had nocturnal blood pressure – elevated blood pressure only at night – and more than half the doctors had irregular BP patterns at night, increasing the risk of cardiac diseases. “It is a pointer that awareness without diet or exercise in a stressful work environment can cause serious health hazards. If this can happen to doctors, it can happen to anyone,” he said.
 
 The IMA has been part of the universal BP screening programme launched by the Indian Council of Medical Research, where every doctor has been asked to measure the blood pressure of at least 20 visitors every day. “These are not screenings done for patients. They will be carried out on attenders and visitors to ensure it reflects the community blood pressure,” said Dr Agarwal. Hypertension is one of the most common lifestyle diseases prevalent today with one in three Indian adults suffering from it, but doctors say a large number of people remain undiagnosed or wrongly diagnosed because it is normally measured only once.
 
  Increasingly, doctors are prescribing 24-hour monitoring of blood pressure to make a more accurate diagnosis, said   president Dr Shashank Joshi. Doctors say a diet rich in fruit, vegetables and Omega-3 foods, and low in salt and sugar, besides regular exercise will help in containing blood pressure.
 
 
