Dance, music, fun and festivities - the nine nights of   are all about revelry. As Delhi's janta is gearing up to attend dandiya nights, city DJs are preparing their playlist, too. However, apart from the usual   dandiya-garba tracks, the DJs are mixing English pop artists including   and  's chartbusters too, apart from the latest hit - Luis Fonsi's ' '!

  
  Peppy and energetic tracks – be it Hindi or English – rule dandiya events
 
  So don't be surprised if you hear 'Shape Of You' and 'Sorry' interspersed with 'Dholi Taro Dhol Baje' and 'Nagada Sang Dhol Baje' at dandiya nights - ‘coz city DJs believe in mixing it up! 
 
 
  
  Be it desi songs like 'Kaala Chashma' and 'Nagada Sang Dhol Baaje', or English chartbusters 'Sorry' and 'Despacito' – it’s all about catchy tunes and beats during dandiya nights 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi’s 'Despacito' already has over three billion views on YouTube. The song is catchy, yes, but one wouldn’t expect it to be played in a dandiya event. But the soaring popularity of the number, as well as that of Ed Sheeran's 'Shape Of You' and Justin Bieber’s 'Sorry', is the reason DJs are planning to play them at dandiya functions too. DJ Sumit Sethi says, "I wouldn’t be surprised if there’s a dandiya version of 'Shape Of You'. You can hear that song practically everywhere, so it won't be wrong to assume that the song will rule dandiya nights, too. We already have the remixes of 'Sorry' and 'Despacito'. We have specially curated these remixes for dandiya nights and the reason is definitely the popularity and beats of these songs."
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 However, no dandiya night is complete without Bollywood numbers. Khushi Soni, a city-based DJ, gives us the list of the most popular songs for dandiya nights. "Dholi Taro from 'Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam', 'Nagada Sang Dhol' from 'Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram Leela', 'Radha Kaise Na Jale' from 'Lagaan' and 'Dola Dola' from 'Bride And Prejudice' are some of the most popular tracks during this time. From the recent tracks, we have the remix of 'Udi Udi Jaye' from Raees and 'Kala Chashma' from 'Baar Baar Dekho'. These songs are remixed for the places where there’s a substantial Gujarati crowd, or for exclusive dandiya parties where we perform," Soni says.
 
 
  
  Pictures for representational purposes only
 
  DJ Sethi adds, "Dholi Taro is definitely one of the songs which is the most popular during dandiya nights. Daler Mehndi’s Humne Pakad Li Hai and songs like Aey Ganpat Baja Na from Apna Sapna Money Money have also been in demand for many years now because of their catchy tunes. Since these are dance numbers, we have curated a medley of them especially for dandiya nights."
 
 
  
  
 
