NEW DELHI: After the union human resource development ministry made textbooks published by the National Council of Educational Research and Training compulsory in schools under the  , around 2,200 private schools placed orders for nearly 5.5 million books with NCERT by the extended deadline of February 28. But on the request of others schools, NCERT is likely to allow a third window for orders and the demand looks set to cross 10 million at the start of the new academic session. Sources said the   is keeping an eye on the process so that delivery of the books is made in time.

 CBSE initially opened the online facility for ordering books from February 15 to 22, but had to extend it to the end of the month. Some schools were unable to post their needs during this period. “To help them, CBSE is thinking of opening up the indent facility for another week or 10 days in March,” said an official of the education board. “However, for schools placing these late orders, the books cannot be delivered before the start of the 2017-18 academic session. They will be made available by April or early May. The total demand is likely to touch the 10-million mark.”
 
 The decision to ask schools to book the   online was taken at a review meeting chaired by HRD minister Prakash Javadekar on February 14 on the premise that this would ensure adequate supply of affordable textbooks for schools following the CBSE curriculum. Almost every year, otherwise, delays in supply and delivery of books lead to schools opting for costlier texts printed by private publishers. To meet the contingency, the ministry initiated a collaborative approach to ensure availability of the school books on time. Accordingly, NCERT will print and supply the required number of textbooks for all classes (from I to XII) through its 680 empanelled distribution vendors across the country. The textbooks will also be available at NCERT sale counters in Ahmedabad, Ajmer, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Mysuru and Shillong and at its headquarters in Delhi.
 
 The ministry is monitoring the process minutely to make sure that students are not affected by the new system of procuring textbooks. Javadekar himself is understood to be taking a keen interest and wants not only timely publication and adequate supply, but also quality printing of the NCERT textbooks.
 
