BENGALURU: Banashankari temple, a well-known landmark in the city, is all set to co-exist with the  . Despite resistance from many residents, the   is starting work to set up a canteen right next to the heritage temple.

 Prakash S, a political activist opposed to the canteen’s location, said it’s sad that the BBMP is making use of temple land to set up an Indira Canteen. “There are several issues with the way the Palike has taken up the project. Officials chose the place in a hurry so that they could meet the August 15 deadline. How can government land meant for a temple be used to set up a canteen,” asked Prakash. The project is being opposed by many residents too. 
 
 However, Manoj Rajan, special commissioner, BBMP, who’s in charge of the Indira Canteen project, said the land on which the structure is coming up belonged to the civic agency. “It’s BBMP land and the commissioner himself inspected the area recently,” he said. 
 
 According to sources, it’s not just this temple land. In a rush to identify land to give shape to the project, BBMP has opted for places without public consultation, they claimed. 
 
 Allegations are that the BBMP has opted for parcels of land under a high-tension wire (Sarakki ward), school area (Jakkur), inside a park (Attibele ward), playground (Kamakshipalya ward), veterinary hospital (Chalavadi palya ward), near a drainage pipe (Anjanapura ward), among others.
 
 Sources claimed some of the places chosen will have to be cleared of trees to make way for the canteens. In wards like Konanakunte, Katriguppe, Kempegowda Nagar, Attur, Devarajeevanahalli, Benniganahalli, C V Raman Nagar, Garudacharpalya, Chinnappa Garden, the places identified for the canteens are dotted with trees, they say.
 
 When BBMP officials started to clear land to set up a canteen at Jayanagar ward, MLA B N Vijayakumar intervened. “They have razed a compound wall and I hear that they want to cut trees. Now, I have questioned the authorities. The canteen is coming up near East End Road, Jayanagar,” said Vijayakumar. 
 
 Places chosen by the Palike will be finalized only after KEF Infra, a Krishnagiri-based firm, examines the same for logistical issues, said Rajan. So far, BBMP has handed over 62 sites for construction and 98 more are ready for hand over. “The other places are still being finalized,” he added. 
 
 BBMP speaks
 
 Why would we construct a canteen under a high-tension wire? Junior officials may identify some such places but chief engineers will visit the places and give their approval only after doing all checks. Engineers on ground have been clearly instructed to first look for places owned by BBMP. It's a unique project for the country. We will not cut any trees. At the most, some trees may be pruned
 
 Manoj Rajan | special commissioner, BBMP
 
