KOLHAPUR: After recovery of 1.5kg gold and Rs 48 lakh in cash from a gang of four persons involved in series of   break-ins across the state, the local crime branch (LCB) has intensified its hunt for five more suspects, including the mastermind behind these robberies.

 The LCB arrested 4 members of the gang on June 17 and based on their information arrested a jeweller, identified as Prashant Govindrao Vedpathak, on June 30. After two weeks of interrogation and investigation, police succeeded in recovering valuables worth Rs 1 crore, including cash and gold jewellery.
 
 D N Mohite, police inspector in-charge of the LCB, said, “During investigation, we reached out to the culprits from Kalamb in Osmanabad district and nabbed four members of the eight-member gang. The gang members confessed to committing more than 500 house break-ins in various parts of the state including Mumbai, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur. However, when we raided their houses we did not get any substantial valuables that were stolen by them. After we arrested a jeweller from Itkur village and interrogated him, we could recover valuables worth Rs 1 crore stolen by the gang in more than 60 house break-ins in the Kolhapur district.”
 
 He added, “We are yet to trace four other culprits part of this gang, including the mastermind, and another jeweller to whom these culprits used to sell the valuables.”
 
 Talking about their modus operandi Mohite said the gang emphasised on public transport and never hired a private vehicle.
 
 “They used to visit Kolhapur from their native place in Kalamb by bus and disperse after reaching Kolhapur bus stand. They used to visit different parts of the city individually and identify the houses to be targeted. They used to rest in the fields of nearby villages and start their work at midnight. At around 2 am they used to target houses, loot valuables and disappear in the dark. The gang used to carry only one mobile phone, but rarely did they make use of it,” he said. 
 
 
