A 24-year-old sex worker was stabbed to death by her boyfriend on a busy street in   area on Wednesday night. A police constable, who was passing through the area, witnessed the incident and intervened. However, when he tried to stop the accused, he assaulted the constable. He soon fled the spot only to slip on the road in a hurry. In this opportune moment, a few locals along with the cop managed to nab him.
 
  The accused has been identified as Sukhdev Ramdas Madavi (27), a resident of Yavatmal. He has been booked under sections 302 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. The deceased has been identified as Bithi Rahamana Molla, a native of  .
  
  When Molla was being assaulted to death, at least half a dozen of people had gathered around and yet, no one did anything to help her situation.
  
  According to the Faraskhana police station, the accused and the victim were in a live-in relationship for the last two years. They had met at Budhwar Peth and had decided to stay together.
  
  In 2015, they took up residence in Wadarvadi area. Domestic troubles soon began piling up with lack of money being the point of frustration. The problems turned Madavi into an alcoholic and an abuser. He would beat up Molla every day.
  
  Fed up of the thrashings, Molla left their house and shifted to Budhwar Peth in the beginning of the year. The uninformed departure prompted Madavi to search for his partner, which he did for about four months.
  
  Finally, last Saturday, he spotted her in Budhwar Peth. He tried to convince her to get back with him, which she refused. It irked the accused to the extent that he started forcing her. However, she repeatedly rejected his offer, following which he left her alone.
  
  On Wednesday, after watching 
 , he went to visit her in Budhwar Peth around 10 pm. He vehemently forced her to come with him and she resisted all his offers. Irked by her continuous refusal, he stabbed Molla on the road.
  
  The scene was witnessed by police constable   who happened to be passing through the area. Solunkhe tried to stop the accused, however was assaulted in the process. Madavi soon fled the spot. Solunkhe, with onlookers’ help, tracked him down and dragged him to the police station.
  
  Molla was immediately rushed to Sassoon  , where doctors declared her dead. The cops are now trying to search for her relatives.
  
    Mahendra Jadhav told 
 , “The accused is daily wage labourer while the deceased was a sex worker. They were living together for the past two years in the Wadarvadi area. In January 2017, the girl left the place and shifted to the red light area. The accused was objecting to her being involved in prostitution and had asked her to leave the profession. When she refused, he pulled her out of the house on to the road and stabbed her in the neck and stomach. He has been arrested.”
  
  The accused was produced before the court on Wednesday. The court sent him to police custody for five days. The case is being investigated further.
 
 
