MUMBAI: Following the BMC's proposal to increase entry charges for   and zoo in Byculla, several eminent citizens from various fields have written an an open letter to chief minister  , asking him to intervene and ensure that entry to   remains affordable for citizens from all walks of life.

 The BMC plans to increase the entry fee from Rs 5 at present to Rs 100 per person, which includes a visit to the botanical gardens as well as the recently inaugurated penguin enclosure.
 
 The entry fee hike proposal has been sent to the additional municipal commissioner for approval, following which it would require the civic chief 's nod.
 
 Once the approval comes, a draft letter will be prepared and tabled before the civic standing committee.
 
 The open letter, sent on Wednesday to Fadnavis, has been signed by the likes of Justice (retd) B N Srikrishna, three former municipal commissioners--V Ranganathan, Sharad Kale, D M Sukthankar--and other wellknown personalities like Pheroza Godrej, trustees of NAGAR, an NGO, besides heritage conservationists Vikas Dilwari and David Cardoz. The letter outlines seve ral reasons why the entry fee should remain affordable.
 
 Hutokshi Rustomfram, trustee of the   said, “The shockingly retrograde proposal to increase the entry fee from Rs 5 to Rs 100 per adult deserves the strongest condemnation as it ignores the historically egalitarian and inclusive character of the Rani Bagh and effectively debars the entry of the lower middle classes and underprivileged sections, who throng the park in huge numbers. No city garden charges more than Rs 5 as entry fee and many have no entry fee whatsoever.“ The foundation is one of the signatories to the letter.
 
 Former municipal commissioner Sukthankar emphasized that Rani Bagh essentially is a public garden and the zoo was added much later.While the botanical garden was opened to the public in 1862, it was only in 1890 that another 15 acres was added to the garden for its further development especially for addition of a zoo. “People have a basic right of access to open spaces from the point of view of a healthy existence. While an entry fee has been in existence for maintenance of the garden, but increasing it by so much is ridiculous,“ said Sukthankar.
 
 
 
 
 It is patently unfair to hike rates for entry to the zoo. Entire families from the city, and some from rural parts of the state, from all socio-economic strata, visit the place with kids in tow. Such a place must be affordable to all. Mumbai anyway has a shortage of open spaces; let us not deprive Mumbaikars of the remaining ones as well.
 
