NAGPUR: Schools in the city cry outrage after the state election commission has enlisted services of teachers from schools and junior colleges for the NMC elections later this month. Education institutions across the city are in a panic with std. X and XII board exams looming over. The situation gets worse as there is a communication gap between the commission and the education department.

 Teachers of Std. X and XII especially are already burdened with the task of preparing for practical, oral and viva tests. According to a letter from   and Higher-Secondary Education, these tests are scheduled between February 8 to 25 for Std. XII, and February 15 to March 4 for std. X.
 
 The board, through its letter, has requested the commission to consider the importance of the examination and exempt all teachers of std. X and XII.
 
 Municipal commissioner   informed of a letter from the commission which exempts only those teachers who are involved in exams from the election duty on Friday. As far as other classes are concerned Hardikar said, “schools will have to adjust their schedule.
 
 One principal of a public school in the city which has over 2000 students is concerned about running her school. “We were expecting a directive from the education department but none received so far. Moreover, we cannot declare a holiday on our own despite shortage of staff,” she said.
 
 For this particular school, allocation of teaching staff is a challenge now, since teachers who teach std. X also teach std. VIII and IX. Similarly those teaching std. XII also teach std. XI, the principal informed. “This move will impact not just classed with board exams but also others,” she said.
 
 Whether schools should declare a holiday or not, is a decision the education department is unsure about as department’s deputy director   said, “head masters should decide themselves.” While education officer   is giving verbal authorization for holidays to schools calling the office. Mendhe said, “we are allowing holidays only to schools where 100% teachers are participating.”
 
 Legislator from the teacher’s constituency, Nagpur division Nago Pundlik Ganar snubbes the state’s practice of calling upon teachers for election duty. “We have asked the government time and again to choose other departments for election work. We will challenge this issue in the court of law,” he said.
 
 Senior teacher leader Rajendra Zade said, “Elections should be done utilizing NMC’s man power. We are always ready to serve the country but authorities should pick only a few teachers so that students do not suffer.”
 
 Junior college teacher   believes that teachers should not be involved in non-educational activities in the first place. He said, “the future of students are in the hands of their teachers and giving them extra work apart from teaching is very unfair.”
 
