GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF-1 have raised a concern over the makeshift   and exit points to Arjun Marg in the area from Golf Course Road.

 According to residents, the unauthorised entries and exits are leading to road accidents and   congestion in the area. 
 
 “Ever since the   has come up on Golf Course Road, which is about three months ago, it has become unsafe to enter Arjun Marg. There are a few makeshift entries that are also used as exits. One has to slow down to take a left turn into the service lane and then face traffic coming from both the directions. It has become very difficult to access Arjun Marg,” said Radhika, a resident.
 
 “Arjun Marg is an entry to four major blocks — B, C, E and F in DLF-1. Such makeshift entries and exits are leading to accidents and causing a lot of inconvenienceto residents. Also there is famous Arjun Marg Shopping Mall in the area so it is frequented by not just residents but many other people every day,” said Savita Chowdhary, RWA president of E Block, DLF-1. She earlier wrote to the consulting agency of MCG over the anamoly. 
 
 The agency has been appointed to conduct a survey before the MCG takeover of the colony.
 
 Suman Khanna, president of the shopping mall on Arjun Marg, said, “This is our biggest concern. I had also raised the issue during a meeting with MLA Umesh Aggarwal last month. He told the developer to ensure there are proper entry and exit points to Arjun Marg from Golf Course Road.”
 
 Khanna added, “There should also be a big signage. However, nothing has been done till date.” “Not just the service lane has unauthorised entries and exits, it is also not wide enough. Once you exit the Golf Course Road towards Arjun Marg, vehicles coming from the left side disturb the traffic movement,” said Sudhir Kapoor, president of DLF City RWA. 
 
 “As most of Golf Course Road has been completed, I expect the service lane to be completed soon. People are getting into Arjun Marg through informal cuts, which is causing a problem. Making it one way is one of the options, but then people have to follow it,” he added.
 
 Over 1,200 families living in the blocks B, C, E and F of DLF-1 are getting affected.
 
 
