PATNA: With the   government notifying the ‘Bihar   (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017’ to implement the Centre’s Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 with effect from from May 1, the real estate scenario in the state is set to change for the better.

 State urban development and housing department (UDHD) minister Maheshwar Hazari said the state government was committed to implementing the Act. “It will not only regulate and promote the real estate sector but will also ensure sale of properties in a transparent manner,” he told   on Tuesday, adding it would provide a mechanism for speedy redressal of disputes.
 
 The principal secretary (UDHD) has been designated the   for now -- till a permanent Regulatory   is set up in the state. Now, sources said, all the real estate projects, including the ongoing ones, involving eight or more flats or an area of 500sqft or more will have to get registered with the Authority. 
 
 Even builders, landowners and agents involved in the sale of real estate property have to register themselves with the Authority. The developers will have to upload details about their project to the Authority’s website. 
 
 “The states have been given a year to create the website. Till then, the developers have to provide the project details offline,” a UDHD official said.
 
 Business will now be based on the carpet area, not the super built-up area. Buyers will not have to pay more than 10% of the value of the property as booking amount. 
 
 A separate escrow account has to be maintained for each project and 70% of the money collected from the buyers of the project will be deposited in this account so that the funds are used only for that particular project. 
 
 Withdrawals from this escrow account will be based on the project’s requirements with the consent of engineer or architect.
 
 The builders will also have to pay interest on the home loans taken by buyers if the project gets delayed. Similarly, buyers will have to pay fine to builders in case of delay in payment. 
 
 In case of any structural defect within five years of date of possession, repairs will be the builder’s responsibility.
 
 Bihar real estate watchers feel the government initiative will infuse transparency in the sector. “Petty realtors will find it difficult to survive as they will not have the liberty to divert funds from project to project or to compromise with the quality to make profits,” a realtor said and ruled out escalation in property prices due to the brief, initial slowdown expected in the sector as a result of the regulatory law.
 
