CHANDIGARH: Shiromani   (SAD) president   today took a jibe at Rahul Gandhi's announcement of   as the chief ministerial candidate, saying the   party's decision to repose faith in a "twice defeated and failed CM" as proposed leader is good news for the SAD-BJP combine.
 
  "Rahul's announcement of Amarinder as CM candidate is a good omen. It helped us last time too. Our battle is all but won. Forget Punjabis, even Congressmen are fed up with Amarinder's arrogant ways.
  
  "The entire senior leadership be it Manpreet Badal, Navjot Sidhu, Partap Bajwa or Bibi Bhattal, no one wants him to become CM. Now they will unite as one to keep him away from the CM's chair. Our work will be done by them", said Sukhbir in a statement here.
  
  Notably, Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi at Majitha today announced State unit chief Amarinder Singh as chief ministerial face of the party.
  
  Badal said "Rahul has chosen a "lame horse" who has already failed twice earlier.
  
  "This time Amarinder will not only make it a hat trick of defeats but will also take down the party with him. It is a known fact that wherever the Congress loses thrice in a row it ceases to exist as a political entity. This is going to happen in   now," he said.
  
  The SAD chief said, "Rahul Gandhi was living in a fool's paradise if he thought announcing Amarinder as chief ministerial candidate would help the party."
  
  "Punjabis have not forgotten the wounds inflicted by your family on them. Your grand mother ordered tanks and artillery into the Darbar Sahab. Your father instigated Congressmen and lumpen elements to massacre Sikhs in 1984. How can Punjabis ever repose faith in you and your choices", he alleged.
  
  Badal asked Punjabis to evaluate Amarinder's performance before taking any decision to give their mandate.
  
  "This is a person who has never visited a single ward of Patiala despite having represented it for years. Amarinder never visited Amritsar despite being elected as an MP from the holy city. He never attended parliament. He has always been missing from the state. How can you ever repose faith in such a person," he asked.
  
  Speaking about Amarinder's performance as CM, he said the Congress leader was responsible for withdrawing the free power facility extended to farmers.
  
  He said Amarinder also withdrew welfare schemes and had also put a ban on government recruitment. "This is his track record as CM. It is good Rahul has chosen him as CM candidate. It is indeed good news for us".
