JAIPUR:  , a conglomerate of upper caste organizations, has threatened to lay siege to the   on March 3 to press their demand for reservation.

 Addressing the media at  , the leaders of the various organizations demanded constitution amendment to provide reservation to the economically backward classes as well. The leaders of the organisations included Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena president Sukdev Singh Gogamedi, Kuldeep Singh Sirsila of Pratap Youva Shakti, Akhil Bharatiya Shetriya Mahasabha state president Mahipal singh Tanwar, Rashtriya Brahmi Mahasangh state general secretary Pankaj Joshi Rajasthan Pradesh Vaishya Mahasabha state president Prakash Chand Gupta, Pradesh Agarwal Mahasabha Rajasthan and other social organizations.
 
 Congress MLA from Bari Giriraj Singh Malinga alleged that the   government in the state had stopped the reservation given to Krishak Rajputs under the OBC quota. He said the previous Congress government had included the Krishak Rajputs in the OBC but this government had stopped that reservation.
 
 Former minister Rajendra Singh Guda demanded to implement 14% reservation promised by the BJP government for the economically backward classes in the state. They demanded that till the 14% reservation is implemented, the same percentage of posts in government be kept as ‘shadow posts’. 
 
 The other demanded include the constitution of a board on the lines of Dev Narayan Board for the welfare of the economically weaker sections and raising the upper age for applying for government jobs from 35 to 40 like other state like UP and other states for the general classes. They pointed out that due to cancellation of exam due to leakage of question papers and due to litigation, very often the recruitment process stretches to three to five years adversely affecting the chances of candidates belonging to the general classes.
 
 Stop shooting of Padmavati
 
 Rajput Karni Sena national president Sukdev Singh Gogamedi demanded the state and Central government to stop the shooting and release of controversial film ‘Padmavati’ all over the country. He also demanded handing over the investigation of the Chatur Singh murder case in Jaisalmer to CBI. 
 
