GURGAON: Much before Gurgaon became  , the   arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from  . Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a Gurugrammer identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the fourth part of our new weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers

 A year after he built a farmhouse near  ,  , self-made man with a DIY streak, landed up in Gurgaon – with wife Rita, their two children, and his mother-in-law – to build a house of his own, and a life for himself. He’s done both, with enviable success. Arya owns one of the city’s landmarks, an intimate space that pays tribute to the history of photography (though his plans for a bigger museum continue to be infuriatingly mired in red tape). The trees in DLF Phase-III? Oh, they were planted by Arya. Gurgaon’s rulers could do worse than follow this early settler’s empathy for the environment, and his all-embracing pioneering spirit.
 
 The pioneer
 
 Two things I really wanted to do were farming and photography. So in 1996, I set up my farm, near Sohna. But it was too long a drive from east Delhi, and I wanted to be closer to the farm, so we moved here soon after.
 
 Back then, there were mustard fields in and around Gurgaon – on Sohna Road, where Malibu Towne is now, there was only mustard fields!
 
 For me, to live close to nature was very important. But little did I realise the house would end up in the backyard of Cyber City, that we’d be struggling for water and power!
 
 The ‘hands on’ daily wage earner!
 
 I’ve started my life at zero level – always. I like to build things, and to start fresh is for me a simple process. So, I built a house, I built a farm, I planted trees. I like to make things, like to work with my hands – I love playing with materials, with sand and gravel and dirt. And I keep each and every tool in the house – why not do your own welding and woodwork, and cut stone yourself?
 
 The house took nine months to complete, from start to finish – it was one of the first to come up in the area. And I can tell you what was going on when each brick, each wall, was coming up – it is ingrained in my mind!
 
 Man of action
 
 Many people moved into DLF Phase-III after they came to visit me. If there’s an issue affecting the area, I’m the first one to get involved, whether it means fighting with the neighbour, or arguing with the builder. We have too many people who like to discuss things – let’s do something about it!
 
 For I come from a time when there was no Facebook, WhatsApp or social media. So we had ample time to read, study, go places, meet people, and learn how things happen. Because there were no distractions like malls and pubs.
 
 Starting from scratch
 
 Nothing was unnerving for me when I came here. Everything was exciting. You started your life fresh every day, nothing was laid out for you. I enjoyed the part of setting up new things every day.
 
 When we came, there were no trees – from the first floor, I could see the border. I planted all the trees in the area and now they’re overflowing with birds. There are babblers, sunbirds, mynahs and, occasionally, hornbills – sometimes, I get to see hawks.
 
 Future uncertain
 
 I’m worried about the water situation. When we came here, there was water at 80 feet. Now, there’s no water even at 300 feet – and nobody’s talking about water conservation!
 
 The only thing I’m hopeful about is the Aravali Biodiversity Park. Here, you can breathe, you can be with nature. Whenever I feel like it, I just get up and go for a walk there.
 
 I can’t imagine living on MG Road. But thankfully, once we enter our colony, we’re in a tranquil place.
 
 
