CHENNAI: Late on Sunday night,  , a   (CWC) member in  , received a call. 

 "Velu is here," said a voice at the other end. "He knows where the children are."
 
 A key employee had finally blown the whistle on Baba Gurukulam, an unlicensed home in   that used children to solicit donations and from where seven children went missing on Wednesday.
 
 But no investigation took place on the tip. The authorities made no concerted effort to find the children. The lack of action instead exposed crevasses in a system meant to protect such children: from apathetic police, to a hamstrung CWC and a government department that bases its performance on numbers and not the the faces behind the figures. 
 
 Last Wednesday, 20 minutes after Baba Gurukulam caretaker Velu, in the hope of receiving money, paraded seven children before this TOI correspondent who posed as a donor, CWC members inspected the home. The children were missing. Proprietors Dayalan and Ganesan said there were no children at the home. 
 
 Late on Sunday, Velu visited one of Dayalan's relatives, who had informed CWC officials about the home's operations. Dayalan's relative alerted Zahiruddin.
 
 "I am scared," Velu, 27, told TOI on Monday. "They will hunt me down," he said, referring to Dayalan and Ganesan. 
 
 He said when members of the CWC team arrived at the home, the staff bundled out the children through a back gate. They walked to a house 500m away before speeding away in a car. "I last heard they were in Old Washermenpet," Velu said, adding that Dayalan procured many of the children through an agent, Prabhu.
 
 On Monday evening, Velu escaped instead of recording a statement before the CWC.
 
 The events were dramatic, but the authorities did little to find the children. Shankar Nagar inspector Ilangovan said police received no complaints about the children.
 
 District child protection officer (DCPO) David Paul said the home's children were away for the vacations. "When they return, we will move them to a registered home."
 
 CWC officials said they sent a registered letter to police and the collector on the missing children. They did not lodge a complaint in person, Zahiruddin said, because the committee is short-staffed. But the CWC will file a habeas corpus petition in court on Tuesday, he said.
 
 Social welfare secretary K Manivasan said his department receives such complaints about some institutions. The department will instruct the DCPO to coordinate with police and trace the children, he said. 
 
