Ludhiana: On Monday, more than 1,000 students admitted to more than 30 colleges in the city experienced their first day of   life. For some of the students, it was a day filled with smiles while for some there some sort of anxiety. 

 Though some colleges such as Guru Nanak Khalsa College Women already held their orientation programme last Monday and had their classes scheduled from this Monday, many others such as Khalsa College for Women, Government College for Girls had their introduction on Thursday. Ragging was a concern for freshers but the fears were laid to rest at colleges as seniors welcomed freshers by guiding them to their classes.
 
 “I want the students to know they should not be scared of the seniors. In fact, they should be able to approach us if they have any problem regarding anything,” said Kavya Gupta, a final year BA programme student at Khalsa College for Women, civil lines.
 
 Most of the students were both excited and nervous about their first day of college while others seemed to have been able to forge a bond with their peers, chatting away like they had known each other for ages. “This was much better than we expected. We were not expecting to make friends so quickly. It’s almost like we are all family,” said Harleen Kaur, first year BA programme student of Government College for Girls. 
 
 For students like Arayadhya Singh, BBA programme student at Guru Nanak Girls, first day might have seemed lacklustre. The college had conducted its orientation programme earlier on Wednesday and had scheduled classes for Thursday but she found out about the mix-up only when she reached campus.
 
 College principal of GCG, Dr Mohinder Kaur Grewal motivated the students to follow holistic approach in their lives so that they can excel in different fields. 
 
 She further acquainted the students by saying that our college has attained many positions at national level in cultural activities. They informed the students that those who are at the age of 18 or above it and those who have not applied yet for it should also register themselves as a new voter by filling forms which are available in the college. Those students who will be entering into the age of 18 years on January 1, 2018 can also fill the forms for a voter.
 
 Other teachers from different departments acquainted the students with the ongoing activities likes sports, rotractor club, youth club and cultural activities, carrier counseling cell, anti-ragging cell, legal literacy cell, anti-drug, library student council, red cross, women forum, NSS, road safety, environment, scholarships, house examination and time-table etc. 
 
 Tips from seniors
 
 We have to filter out our friends in the college as they are the one who play important role. Also, they must have a good bond with seniors because they make college life much more enriching and you will get to learn a lot from them. If you want to get the best out of college, be frank with your teachers. They are the ones who will support you till the end and guide you towards the right path.
 
 Ravinder Kaur BSC Medical, KCW | Civil Lines 
 
 College heralds a new beginning. Hence, you must get your balancing act for academics, attendance and extra-curricular activities on point. Go out, don’t be shy and explore yourself by taking part in different youth festivals to know about your strengths and weaknesses because overall development matters the most. These are the years that will help you truly identify yourself. Make the best of it; these years will never come back.
 
 Lovepreet Kaur, Final year student of BSC Non Medical, Khalsa College for Women 
 
 Good grades are a stepping stone towards getting into a college. But entering into a college is not enough. The journey in the college is the first stone to the new building you are to build in your future. It is a place to embark your journey, showcase your talent and outshine in every field. Students when join the college sometimes have a thought that college is for fun, what I feel is that college is a place where we can accomplish our goals and set ourselves where we want to see ourselves 20years from now. So, enjoy your college life and at the same time set your goals from the very first day and study hard, represent yourself in every field of your interest and showcase your talent in cultural programmes and academics. Wish you all most and more.
 
 Geetika Jethi, BA English Hons Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujjarkhan Campus, Model Town 
 
 In college, school becomes a distant memory as whatever you have learnt there is nullified. I gained confidence in college by making friends and doing what I felt I was good at. So, the key to surviving is whatever you do, do it with confidence. Most importantly, don’t care about what anyone says. You are here to learn about life, not to care about what people think. 
 
 Ramanpreet Kaur, Masters in English, SCD Government College, College Road 
 
 Do not get intimidated by the teeming possibilities you see before you. In college, a whole new world opens up for you and there is so much you can do: explore your creative talents, join student council and take up an internship and get involved in college societies, among other things. Take decisions and learn from your mistakes. College is definitely more than just academics and lectures. So, make memories.
 
 Shruti Jain, BA Psychology (Hons) Khalsa College for Women | Civil Lines
 
 There is a time and place for everything that place is called college. First day is one of the most exciting days of one's life. What I would like to tell all my juniors to not get so worried about the first day. What I will say is to enjoy it to the fullest. To try to indulge with students in class. Be more intellectual towards your thoughts and be free to talk about anything with your classmates and teachers. Try to put a nice impression on them. Be regular for the college, as these three years are the best and most memorable part of the college.
 
 Shivam Bansal, BBA (3rd year), PCTE
 
 
