ALWAR: The sleuths of Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau( ACB) have found several incriminating evidence, including bank slips and property documents from the house of arrested senior income tax official  .

 According to ACB Alwar’s additional  , Yadav had brought a plot in Haryana which is said to be worth more than Rs one crore. The investigation has also revealed that the accused had set-up several societies like ‘Rationalist Society’ and ‘The essentials milk producer company.’ 
 
 “He had registered these societies at his home address in Jaipur and had also registered himself as the chairman in these societies. We suspect Yadav had asked people to deposit money in these societies as donation,” Mohammed said, adding that so far around Rs 19 lakh have been found in bank accounts of these societies.
 
 “Yadav’s brother and son were also made directors in these societies. We have recovered several bank slips from his office,” Mohammed said.
 
 The ACB found that Yadav has purchased a plot in Haryana’s Manesar area, “The plot is under industrial area. We have recovered the registry of the house and we suspect it was acquired through illegal money,” an official of the ACB told TOI, adding that investigation is likely to fetch more details to the ACB.
 
 B L Yadav, an additional commissioner with the assessment cell of I-T department was arrested by ACB on Thursday for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 7 lakh. He took Rs 50,000 in cash and two cheques of Rs 3 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh from a man who was earlier a partner in an education society .According to officials, Dhanpat Singh, who was a partner in Modern Sharma Education Society , which runs B Ed colleges and schools, broke away from the society in June 2016 and took Rs 3 crore as his share. However, he hid this income from the I-T department to save on the income tax.
 
 Yadav, however, came to know about it and threatened Singh either to pay a bribe of Rs 10 lakh or face a penalty of Rs 1crore, an ACB officer said.The deal was settled at Rs 7 lakh. “After Singh approached us, we verified the complaint and laid a trap on Thursday and arrested the officer while accepting the bribe,“ said a senior officer of ACB.
 
