KOCHI: The state budget has given a push for Kochi's infrastructure projects by giving green signal to long-pending projects like construction of Kundannoor flyover, rail over bridge (RoB) at Vathuruthy and  . The budget also gives major allocation for hospitals, Cusat and Kochi Muziris Biennale. 

 The budget has earmarked Rs 100 crore for the widening of Thammanam-Pulleppady Road. The widening of this stretch is expected to ease the traffic along  , which is one of the arterial roads, to a great extent.
 
 "The budget has allotted Rs 236 crore for the projects in Ernakulam constituency alone. Widening of Thammanam-Pulleppady road can play an important role in easing the traffic in the city. The government has already allotted Rs 25 crore acquiring land for Thammanam-Pulleppady road," said MLA Hibi Eden. "The railway gate at Vathuruthy is one of the oldest in the state. The railways has decided to start a memu service along the route and once this service begins, the traffic along the route will go haywire. So, construction of the ROB is all the more important," he said.
 
 For the renovation of Harbour Bridge-Goshree Road, Rs 30 crore had been set aside. Allocation of Rs 76 crore for elevating Ernakulam general hospital in to a super specialty hospital is another important gain for the city.
 
 The government has allocated Rs 1,130 crore for the development of various hospitals in the state including the construction of Rs 360 crore   and development of   at a cost of Rs 368 crore. Construction of Thankalam-Kakkand four-lane road and Rs 20 crore allocation for the construction of water and road projects for SmartCity and Infopark will help the IT hub in a big way.
 
 Water taxi services will begin in the Ernakulam, Kumarakom, Alappuzha, Muhamma route.
 
 Besides mentioning the Kochi Water Metro project would be implemented using Rs 682 crore from German financial institutions, finance minister Thomas Isaac did not make any specific allocations for land acquisition for the project.
 
