 a picturesque mountain pass that weaves its way through the Sahyadri ranges lies at an altitude of 3,200 feet above sea level. The ghat derives its name due to its proximity to Amba village in the Shahuwadi tehsil of Kolhapur district and passes through the   road or the NH-204.

 The ghat is famous for its green surroundings and pleasant climate which continues round the year, making it the perfect hill station to fulfill weekend wanderlust.
 
 
 
 
 An hour-and-a-half drive will take you to Amba Ghat located 60km from Kolhapur. The hill station is renowned for its thick green cover and is a popular getaway for the offbeat traveller and family outings.
 
 On offer for the sojourner
 
 Amba Ghat is a tourist hotspot with several resorts, safari options, bird watching among other such activities on offer. The Konkan darshan point, Manoli dam and other natural landscapes are well-known at the hill station.
 
 Shreya Pawa, a tourist at Manoli dam, said, “We plan a trip to this place each month. The tranquil atmosphere here makes us forget the city’s busy life. Every season, the place transforms and the landscape is awe inspiring.”
 
 Flora & Fauna
 
 The area also boasts of several forest resorts which always see heavy rush. Resort owner, Tanaji Parit, says, “Monsoon is the time when guests arrive from across the state as this region witnesses heavy downpour. Amba Ghat is filled with mist, lush green mountainscapes and serene waterfalls which tourists can make the most of. The place also has a variety of fauna and flora, but I feel that the tourism authority has failed to give it a better status on the state tourism map.”
 
 Environment NGO —   — is highly active in protecting the Ghat’s biodiversity. Member, Dhananjay Joshi, said, “The area has a Bison sanctuary and a Tiger Reserve known for its high population of hornbills and other such birds. Wild animals like Leopards, Sambar, wild pigs, peacocks among other can be sighted easily. The environment needs to be conserved with long-term sustainable development in mind.”
 
 Legend has it
 
 The Amba village has a beautifully carved temple of Ambeshwara, which is the local deity. As per local legend, when the Mughals tried to destroy the temple, thousands of bumble bees attacked them and prevented the temple from destruction. Amba ghat has a historic significance especially in the era of Chhatrapati Shivaji.
 
 Vaibhav Ghugare, a Kolhapur-based fort trekker, said, “The Ghat acted as a bridge between the Konkan and Kolhapur provinces. Konkan Darshan point is a famous sightseeing point, but back then it was used by the king to keep an eye on the Konkan provinces. Pawankhind, a site where Bajiprabhu Deshpande and a few soldiers fought invaders till Shivaji Maharaj could reach Vishalgad fort from the Panhala, is also located nearby. This great escape of Shivaji is famous in the history books drawing a number of history aficionados to this place’.
 
