BHOPAL: Eyeing medals in Asian Games 2018 and Tokyo Olympic 2020, sports minister   has directed department officials to select potential medal winners in each discipline. She is also mulling to give exposure to players under foreign coaches in the near future. With this purpose, international shooting coach   who came for SAI has been invited to visit the shooting academy and coach shooters for a couple of days. 

 When contacted,   said this is the right time to start working for the Asian Games as well as 2020 Tokyo Olympic. “We will select two-three medal prospects from each discipline. They will be given all kinds of facilities and prepare them for Asian Games 2018 and 2020 Olympics,” said Scindia. 
 
 Scindia said that finding foreign players is not an easy task. “We know that bringing foreign coaches would be a costly affair when the available resources are limited. However, we will not leave a single stone unturned to give best facilities to players,” said Scindia. 
 
 Two years ago, Mission 2020 was launched with a view to prepare players for the next Olympic. Under the mission, skills of state’s sports talents will be honed to enable them represent Madhya Pradesh and win medals in Olympics-2020.
 
 She added that a roadmap is being prepared for the big games. “Though it is very early to say how many medal prospects are there in the sport academies, the objective is to select the best by regularly interacting with coaches. Thereafter, we will chalk out as what kind of coaching they require,” she added. 
 
 Scindia made it clear that the roadmap is to bring the best coach in different discipline according to the need. “At present, it is too early to comment, as still the process of selecting players has not been done completely. We will work on every area of players which is required to improve. Whether it is foreign or Indian coach we will give the best,” she said. 
 
 She has also directed officials to give work on different games and special focus on games wherein medals have to be won at the international level. MP players have made their strong presence felt in shooting, kayaking, canoeing, archery, water sports, boxing and others.
 
