KOLKATA: A team of three doctors and six nurses pumped manual resuscitators for more than 10 minutes to keep eight critical patients on life support alive after a sudden power cut shut down eight ventilators in the Critical Care Unit at   on Monday evening.

 The power outage, for which hospital officials and CESC blamed each other on Tuesday, threw the female surgical ward and the   on second and third floors of SSKM’s main building into darkness from 6.45pm. It forced doctors and nurses to scurry for AMBU-bags using mobile torches and kept on pumping the valve mask to provide manual positive pressure ventilation to the patients attached to eight of the 19 ventilators whose power backup system had malfunctioned. A medical officer, two house staffers and six nurses were on duty at that time.
 
 By operating the mechanical ventilation, they succeeded in saving all the patients, including five who could not even live a minute without life support. “We salute the heroic and pro-patient attitude of the doctors and paramedics," Dr.  , the general secretary of Service Doctors Forum, said in a statement.
 
 The CCU has 32 beds out of which 19 are attached to ventilators. The ventilators are of two makes – Newport e360 and Puritan-Bennett 760. Out of the 19, there are atleast eight of both the makes, whose power back-up facility has malfunctioned over the years. As a result, the machines immediately shut down when the power supply tripped on Monday.
 
 The hospital tried to play down the power outage as a “minor incident" but admitted that some of the ventilators do lack back-up power supply and promised to replace them soom. “We are in the process of buying new ventilators. However, Monday’s incident was a minor one and the situation was always under control," said  , the hospital superintendent.
 
 As for the reason behind the power cut, Banerjee said: “It was a fault on the part of CESC. They have given it to us in writing. There was a power disruption of about eight minutes which was the time the electrical division took to switch on the back-up system. But even as we were about to start the back-up supply, the power came back," said Banerjee.
 
 CESC, however, denied the allegations. “There was a two-minute power disruption from 6.21pm after one of our transformers at Park Lane malfunctioned and one of the three supply points to   had tripped. But there was no power disruption post 6.45pm," said a senior CESC official.
 
