For Malayalis,   shot overnight from being ‘that Telugu actor’ to ‘THE Bahubali villain’. 

 The actor, who is prepping for the release of movie’s sequel, however, says that his criteria for choosing a movie has always been, and will always be, ‘a story which has not been told before’.
 
 Unlike his tough-as-nails onscreen characters, Rana, who was recently in Kochi for a film shoot, comes across as soft spoken and gentlemanly. It is no surprise when he says that we as a society need to address the issue of assaults on women. In conversation with Rana, who is basking in the success of his latest multilingual film, The Ghazi Attack: 
 
 
 
 Recently I was shooting for a movie of mine at Fort Kochi, and I was dining at a cute little eatery there. The Malayali chef instantly recognised me and took care to give me some really special food. And then I realised that there are people here who know me. It’s nice to know that people from this part of the world take time to watch my films.
 
 Regarding the Major Ravi movie, I was approached, yes, I wouldn’t deny it, but I didn’t meet anyone. There wasn’t any face-to-face contact and it fizzled off eventually. But I’m definitely open to doing a Malayalam film.
 
  
 
 Actually for me it was always about good content, I was never attracted to the regular mode of doing cinema. The only criterion has been to choose stories that haven’t been told before. So post Bahubali, I did The Ghazi Attack. It was the first time someone in India was making a war film based on submarine attacks. The movie is set in a different era that we had to recreate entirely. I shot inside a submarine too. It was a moment when I realised how lucky I am as an actor.
 
 
 
 Yes, it was one of his last films. He was a powerhouse of talent. I believe that you become a better actor only when you work with people far better than you are. We took back a lot from him. It’s sad he left us so early. I’m hoping that he is resting in peace somewhere, feeling happy about the success of the film.
 
 
 
 It’s a big thing for someone like me; he is one of the biggest superstars in the world. He has struck a chord with every generation in this country, but only a select few get an opportunity to work with him. I’m glad that in some way I’ve been part of his journey. 
 
 You realise how small you are and how little you know about cinema only before someone who has seen cinema over generations, different kinds of filmmakers and actors. I shot an entire film with him in 2012, Ram Gopal Varma’s Department. He works harder than all of us do, which is quite unbelievable!
 
 You are one of the few actors who has a presence in the North and across the South. Was it a conscious decision to step into different industries? 
 I grew up in Hyderabad and Chennai, watching Tamil, Telugu and Hindi films. It never mattered to me which language I am doing a film. The Ghazi Attack is a Hindi film which revolves around an incident that happened off the coast of Vizag; so it became a Telugu film that way. But now I’m doing a political film in Telugu which is set in Andhra Pradesh and it will be released only in the State. So only the content matters, not the language or the place a movie is released in.
 
 
 A lot of films are already being remade these days; Malayalam films are remade into Tamil, Telugu and Hindi and vice versa. People have realised that if you have a story to tell, it can be told in whichever language it needs to be told. And there are a few actors who are lucky enough to speak many languages for their films, who understand different kinds of cinema and different kinds of story-telling, who are not bound by regional stardom. That will help them break many barriers.
 
 
 
 Yes, I did, because we wanted a stark variation between my characters in Bahubali and the sequel. I had to go through a tough regime but that’s the best part of our job, every day you get to play different people.
 The original just introduces you to the different characters. The second part goes into the actual conflicts and answers the many questions the first part posed. There is a lot more drama in part 2 and so we were always looking forward to the second part even as we were making the first.
 
 
 
 Right now, I’m shooting for a Tamil-Telugu bilingual by director Satyasivan. It’s untitled yet. It is a love story set in the 1940s British India and is the tale of a soldier who fought in the Subhash Chandra Bose regiment. We shot in Fort Kochi for the film as it has lots of old colonial bungalows.
 
 
 
 The food is great, and that is primal for any culture to me. Needless to say, it’s really, really beautiful wherever you are. We often ask among ourselves in Hyderabad when we watch Malayalam films – are the technicians talented or is this place really this beautiful? Wherever you put the camera it looks good, ya!
 
 
 
 Dulquer has been a dear friend of mine for years and I have watched all his films. He is my link to Malayalam cinema, I’d say, as I interacted with a lot of the others through him. I’ve always been a big fan of Anjali Menon as a director and have watched most of her films too. Jeethu Joseph is another filmmaker I’m fond of. I’ve watched Anwar Rasheed’s films as well.
 
 
 
 Oh no (laughs). There is nothing like that. I’m happy Naga Chaitanya is getting married. He is more than a cousin to me, he is my sibling. There was a lovely engagement and we are all looking forward to the wedding. Weddings in the family are always fun.
 
 
 
 I don’t! It’s completely untrue. When you are doing four films in four languages, it’s very difficult to have a girlfriend (laughs).
 
 
 
 It is terrible, what happened to her. I’m glad Prithviraj and Dulquer and the entire industry came up and spoke for her, in support. It’s wrong and sad what happened, not because she is an actress, but because she is a girl and there are so many such incidents happening across the country. We come from a culture which respects women a lot. We had women ruling the country, we had women Prime Ministers and women in top positions. I don’t know how we can deal with this issue, whether it is society which needs to make a stand or men. But we need to educate those sections of society who think that women are lower than men. They need to understand that women are equal halves and not weaker halves. I hope the survivor comes out of it stronger than before to face life. 
 
 
