NAGPUR: Last time when India one-day skipper   and his former Bihar team-mate   batted together at   Cricket Association's Civil Lines stadium, they helped Bihar to a historic victory over Vidarbha.

 It was December 11, 2003, and Bihar had not registered an outright victory for past five years. The duo's effort broke that jinx. In 2017, they are back in the city in different capacities. Dhoni, retired from Test cricket, is now the mentor of Jharkhand, while Kumar is a head coach. The coach-mentor partnership is doing wonders for   team, which is doing extremely well in all formats since last season.
 
 Thirteen years ago, their gutsy partnership had plotted Vidarbha downfall. While Kumar had scored a brilliant 124 (329b, 11x4, 1x6) and stayed at the crease for nearly seven hours, Dhoni batted responsibly for his 68 (126b, 11x4).
 
 It was a cool morning when Vidarbha had won the toss and surprisingly chose to bat on a green top. Bihar's batting line-up had performed poorly in previous two matches against Madhya Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir. While the batting was Achilles heel for Bihar, there was no problem with their bowling. The trio of  ,   and Sumit Panda were in great rhythm.
 
 Apart from their fast bowlers, skipper Panda was banking on Kumar, who was Bihar's batting mainstay at the time, and Dhoni. Fortunately both came good and turned the match with their seventh-wicket 117-run stand. Bihar had bowled Vidarbha out for 244 but were struggling at 81-6 when Dhoni joined Kumar in the middle.
 
 "I remember the ball was swinging and seaming around. Since I was playing in England before the season, it helped me get over the tough conditions. Batsmen of both teams were finding it difficult," Kumar told TOI after the second day's play of the Ranji Trophy semi-final match against Gujarat on Monday.
 
 "We were discussing about that match yesterday. More than our performances, we discussed about our fast bowlers, especially Shiva Shankar Rao who took 10 wickets in that match. That match actually changed our fortunes. The victory gave us confidence that we could do well on grassy tracks. We won quite a few matches after that," he said.
 
 Kumar still remembers his stand with Dhoni. "That stand changed the match for us. I was holding one end up. Dhoni took some time to settle down and then played his stroke and that put pressure on Vidarbha bowlers. They went a bit defensive and we had more partnerships at the lower order, which helped us post a healthy total," he said.
 
 Dhoni also played a crucial role behind the stumps taking nine catches. "He wasn't a natural keeper when he started. Just before that season Dhoni attended one national camp for keepers. It helped him immensely. He was more confident with the gloves during the season."
 
 Dhoni, who has played 27 Ranji matches, played just six more after Vidarbha match, while Kumar played his last Ranji match six years ago. Now they are back again trying to take Jharkhand cricket to newer heights.
 
