PATNA: As the   vacation is just a couple of weeks away, the city schools and various organizations have planned exciting camps for the kids. Most of the schools are scheduled for summer vacation from third week of May till mid of June.

 Despite vacation, schools will abuzz with activities like sports, music, dance, art and craft, painting, photography, technical and communication skill, storytelling and many more. These camps, which are generally held in the third week of May, are useful in many ways as the students get to learn different skills.
 
 St Xavier’s High School has a longlist of activities for their students. Spoken English classes, swimming, western and classical dance, painting and art and craft are some of the main activities the school has planned for this summer vacation. School vice-principal Fr Manish Osta SJ said the students have to pay Rs350 to 400 per head for each activity. “The school will be closed for summer vacation from May 20 to June 20 while the summer camp will be for 15 days,” he added.
 
 This vacation will be a gala for students of Open Minds A   Kankarbagh. The school is taking the students of classes VI to VIII for excursion-cum-study tour to Darjeeling. School principal Madhukar Jha said, “Most of the kids want to go to hill station during summer. So, the school authority selected this place. Each student has to pay Rs6,000 for food, lodging and travel expenses for the 7-day trip from May 20.”
 
 Loyola High School is planning to give personality development classes to the students this summer. The camp will be held from May 19 to May 30. A school official said the summer camp will give ample opportunities for kids to have a good time during summer vacation. “Students can play sports like volleyball, basketball, cricket, table tennis, badminton and soccer. The other activities are dance and music. The school will recruit special trainers and student have to pay Rs600 for each activity,” he said.
 
 Tarumitra, a non-government organization working for protecting environment, is set to promote the issue among the students by organizing fun and adventurous activities. “Lectures and seminars on nature cannot make much difference. We will give kids a first-hand experience to work in the field. They can learn a range of activities like yoga, meditation, nature walk, vertical, kitchen and terrace gardening, weeding and waste management during the summer vacation. Kids can also camp here,” said Devopriya, coordinator of the organization.
 
 Kids will be spoilt for choice as   will give ample opportunities to them to master various skills, which include cooking, drama, puppet-making, robotics, pottery, photography, swimming, painting, writing, storytelling, arts and crafts, sports and many more. Many other organizations in the city are also gearing up for summer camps.
 
