CHANDIGARH: The newly-elected legislators of   alleged on Thursday that they were given “step motherly treatment” at the swearing-in ceremony of Capt Amarinder Singh as chief minister at Raj Bhawan. They were not even offered chairs to sit, the MLAs said, attacking the Congress for its “feudal mindset”.

 Soon to be leader of opposition,   senior leader H S Phoolka, and chief whip Sukhpal Singh Khaira alleged that the no arrangements were made to facilitate the elected representative belonging to Aam Aadmi Party. Phoolka said that this was the first time in the history that while chief minister was taking oath of his office, the leader of main opposition party, along with his colleagues, was standing at the back of the pandal.
 
 Phoolka said, “Although the AAP MLAs don’t seek any VIP treatment but being the representative of people they must have given seats to sit at least.” He claimed that AAP had culture of simplicity and all the MLAs followed the same ideology.
 
 Khaira said that the swear-in-ceremony depicted the work culture of the Congress and feudal mindset of Amarinder. He said that AAP MLAs attended the function respecting the mandate of the people of state while Akalis and   leaders were missing from the programme. He said that the denying chair to the representatives of people was like disrespecting the people of Punjab.
 
 "If Congress cannot organize a function properly then what else can the people of Punjab expect from them?" the Bholath MLA said.
 
 “We wish that the Congress fulfils its promises of giving jobs to at least one person from the family, waive of the loan of farmers, eradicate drugs from the state. If it failed in performing its duty, the government would to feel the heat of Aam Aadmi,” said Khaira.
 
 Congress refutes charge
 
 Reacting to AAP’s allegations, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) blamed the opposition for a “deliberate and mischievous attempt to undermine the office of the governor with its blatantly false charges of mismanagement”. Reacting to charges of inefficient handling of the event, a   spokesperson said a panic-stricken AAP, unable to swallow its ignominious defeat in the Punjab assembly polls, it was trying desperately to defame the newly formed Congress government in the state by making false and baseless allegations. The spokesperson pointed out that the complete arrangements for the event were made by the Raj Bhavan, with the Congress government not even sworn in till the completion of the ceremony.
 
 The AAP leadership, instead of accepting their electoral defeat gracefully and playing the role of a healthy opposition, seemed hell-bent on creating hurdles even before the Congress government was sworn in, as was evident from their behaviour at the swearing-in ceremony of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his ministerial colleagues, said the spokesperson.
 
 
