On April 26, there was   among   as reports of the   issuing a notification,   prices at Rs 200 spread like wildfire.

 Ironically on Monday, chief minister Siddaramaiah along with a huge retinue watched the Telugu film 'Baahubali 2' in a multiplex in Bengaluru paying Rs 1,050 per ticket.
 
 Directed by SS Rajamouli Baahubali 2 is the sequel of the first part which was released in 2015.
 
 In between these days, 'Baahubali 2' has had a field day at the  . As with elsewhere across the country, the film has turned out to be a big money spinner. Reports suggest that the film has grossed more in Bengaluru than in Hyderabad and Chennai. Ironically, the film was made in Telugu and Tamil. An attempt to dub the film in Kannada had fallen through.
 
 Sources said that the CM was on the verge of signing the proposed cap on ticket prices when, at the last moment, the question arose as to what happens to 'gold class' tickets. The CM had no idea about what it was and his officers were unable to explain it to him. As he sought an explanation, none was forthcoming. The signing was postponed.
 
 The following day, the CM left on a three-day visit to the UAE. The weekend and the public holiday on Monday meant that the new rule had to wait at least till Tuesday. On Monday, the CM made the grand gesture of watching a film at five times the price which he had promised the people.
 
 
 DIFFERENTIAL PRICING
 
 The new rule is certain to be implemented, said sources in the government. But the film exhibitors, especially multiplexes, may get their request of keeping the 'gold class' and similar categories of seating exempted from the Rs 200 cap. Gold class is a term for the luxury and ultra-luxury seating in some screens. They are said to have given their representation to the government in this regard.
 
 Another contentious rumour is that the price cap will be applicable only when tickets are physically purchased at the box office and not applicable to "online booking" of tickets. If it turns out to be true, the entire exercise could be a farce as online booking is the most common way of purchasing movie tickets in multiplexes, at least in the opening week, when tickets are sold at a premium.
 
 The state government had last year abandoned the plans to cap the ticket prices. But the efforts of actress-turned-MLC Jayamala and the Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy chairman Rajendra Singh Babu led the government to announce it in its Budget this year.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that CM Siddaramaiah was very much upset with his protocol officers for 'leaking' the news that he was watching Bahubali 2 movie on Monday. It is said that CM had decided to take time out to watch Bahubali at the insistence of his grandson and he wanted it to be a private affair and that was the reason why he travelled in a private car and not an official one. However, by Monday evening, TV channels picked up news that CM was watching the movie and this angered Siddu who later took the officials to task.
 
 
