Manjari Fadnnis, who has been extensively travelling to promote ' ', directed by Keshhav Panneriy, is pleased with the encouraging response. Despite the fluttering butterflies in her stomach, a composed Manjari tells us why she believes the film and her character will strike a chord with the audience and how the need to be in the industry doesn’t drive her to sign films. Excerpts...

 
 
 A lot! Playing Alia has been a beautiful journey. She’s a talented girl from Rajasthan, determined, aspirational and hard-working. She takes on life’s challenges with a smile. The film traces her life till the age of 40. I was hooked on to the story because I could relate to her attitude. I don’t let problems bog me down either. I’m strong-willed and live by the mantra ‘never give up’.
 
 
 
 The film has not only given me the opportunity to explore my creativity and test my abilities to play a range of characters, but also the chance to work with some of the biggest names in the industry. I’ve worked with Supriya (Pathak) ma’am before, but this film was different because our characters are intense. I got a chance to learn new things on the set every day. Everyone, from Prem Chopra, Rati Agnihotri, Ashutosh Rana to   and  , made me feel comfortable.
 
 
 It was just one scene, and we did that because our characters would have reacted the same way in that situation. 
 
 
 After 'Jaane Tu…Ya Jaane Na', I got a lot of offers but the roles were similar. I didn’t want to get typecast. So, I did a lot of regional cinema instead. I’ve done films in Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Bengali and Marathi where I had the scope to play diverse characters. After my debut in 2004 with 'Rok Sako To Rok Lo', I’ve been working constantly. I treat my films as a learning ground. All of them might not have become box office successes but they were creatively satisfying. For instance, I shot 14 hours for 42 days in the ocean for 'Warning', an underwater thriller. I’m fortunate that even though I’m not an industry kid, and I don’t have a godfather, I’ve done some really good films.
 
 
 
 Music has been an integral part of my life since childhood. In school, I’d be a part of every show, flaunting my vocal skills. I’ve sung in my debut Tamil film, and also in Warning. I’ve also associated with my musician friends like Raghav Sachar. Somehow, music is more like a passionate hobby and acting, a passionate career choice.
 
  
  
 
