HYDERABAD: Musician   (name changed) was horrified to receive SMSes from his bank informing that Rs 1 lakh had been withdrawn from his account through multiple transactions at ATMs located in Allahabad around 2am on July 28 when Tripathi was sound asleep at his home in Hyderabad and his debit card was safely ensconced in his wallet.
Ditto for Meghna Dundi, who woke up to the shocking discovery that `50,000 had been taken out from her bank account via multiple transactions at Patna ATMs in the wee hours of July 28 through her debit card, and Bhargav Iyer, who was robbed of `13,500 through fraudulent transactions in Allahabad.
 
 Dundi, who filed a complaint with the   on Saturday and has blocked her card, is now hoping that the cops will crack the case and get her money back.
 
 Tripathi, who is still in shock, said: “I received 10 messages from my bank stating that I had withdrawn `10,000 in each transaction. All the messages came within a matter of minutes in the middle of the night. I have filed a police complaint.“ In the last six days, at least four residents of the city have approached the police after their bank balances were reduced to nil thanks to miscreants cloning their debit cards and siphoning away anywhere between `13,000 to `1lakh.
 
 The sudden spurt in such thefts has left the police department flummoxed as skimming cases have not been reported in the city over the last six years. According to cops, the fact that skimming is surfacing now shows that cyber criminals are now falling back on “older techniques“ to make easy money .
 
 KCS Raghuveer, ACP (cy ber crime), Hyderabad police, confirmed that all the victims had fallen prey to skimming.“It is surprising that this scam has surfaced again. This was widely used by criminals six to seven years ago, but since the modus operandi was too cumbersome, it had gradually lost favour with criminals,“ he said.
 
 Incidentally, over the last two years, it is the One-Time Password scam that has been ruling the roost in the city , which is why even the police department has been training its guns on OTP scams.
 
 According to Vijay Shekhar, principal researcher, IIIT Hyderabad: “In online frauds, the trend shows that the number of skimming scams had come down and OTP scams have risen, primarily because of the police department's action in this matter. But now, with the increase in cashless trans actions and people becoming more cautious about OTP scams, scamsters could be looking at rehashing old scams to make money .“
 
 PVS Anand, associate professor, CR Rao Advanced Institute of Mathematics,   Sciences, said that skimming requires more paraphernalia, like a reader, which stores all the information, and a pin-hole camera to note the PIN, which is why it had lost its charm for fraudsters.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi of skimmers, Anand said: “Whenever a debit or credit card is swiped on a compromised machine, the   and CVV number are noted by the reader and transmitted to the thief. Then, all he has to do is note the PIN number, which he gets through the pinhole camera. He can then clone the card and use it. 
 
