The Codissia Ground was packed to the rafters on Thursday evening. A call for   against the Supreme Court   on the ancient   sport of  ,  , which was widely circulated in the social media, ensured that people turned up in droves for the final cry. Be it rekla race organisers, breeders, IT professionals or students, the road looked like a sea of people, who had come together for a cause. “If last Sunday was the clarion call for Jallikattu in Chennai, today is Coimbatore’s turn for the same. I have come all the way from Bengaluru, just to take part in the protest. It’s a weekday and look at the crowd,” said IT professional Karthik MM.

 So, how does the urban educated youth relate to jallikattu, which is labelled a rural sport? An emotional Sivasakthi Ganesan, employee at a private firm in Tidel Park, opines, “What if we all work at IT firms? At the end of the day, we are all Tamilians and we care about our farmers. Jallikattu is part and parcel of our tradition. We cannot let it go at any cost.”
 
 Indu Priyadarshini, student at PSG College of Arts and Science shared that jallikattu has been the hot topic of discussion in their college. “In fact, our professors encouraged us to discuss the issue and even allowed us to take part in this protest. We have come in huge numbers.” So, has the yuppie crowd seen jallikattu in person? “Yes, of course. I have seen jallikattu at Alanganallur and I would like to reiterate that it’s not a barbaric sport and should not be compared to the Spanish bull fight. Jallikattu is also known as Aeru thazhuvuthal, which means embracing the hump. If PETA thinks that the sport harms the bulls, they are wrong. They should instead go after the slaughter houses. There are references to jallikattu even in Sangam literature.”
 
 When informed that the Supreme Court has turned down the plea to revisit the Jallikattu ban, Sivasakthi Ganesan, seethed, “The Supreme Court had also asked Karnataka to release water. What happened? We are going to conduct jallikattu at any cost this year.” A cop on duty, on condition of anonymity, who was listening to the charged youngster, told us, “If I was not on duty, I would have also taken part in the protest. See how a rural sport has united every youngster in the city. It’s a proud moment.”
 
 As bulls and bullock carts lined up at the venue for a mock rekla race, drum beats and songs on jallikattu upped the momentum. R Selvaraj, who breeds Kangeyam bulls at Eachanari, had brought a calf as a symbolic gesture for the cause. “I have four bulls and I take care of them like my own children. I would have brought all four of them, but it would be difficult to control them. I will be taking part in every protest conducted in the city for jallikattu. I also want rekla race and seval sandai to be revived. If there is anything to be banned, it should be PETA.” He even went on to encourage youngsters to take selfies and pictures with the calf.
 
 Ananda Theerthan, employee of an IT firm in Coimbatore, who was part of the protest, told us, “There are lots of conspiracy theories doing the rounds about the ancient sport; but all said and done, jallikattu and rekla race have been happening in our state since the days of yore. If we do not step up now, we cannot save the kangeyam bulls, which are almost extinct. We do not want our next generation to see bulls confined to textbooks.” 
 
 D Vivekanandan, entrepreneur and member of an organization that conducts rekla races in the Coimbatore region, added, “There are quite a few varieties of bulls — Alambadi, Kangayam, Pulikulam, Umbalachery, Barugur and Malai Maadu. We have already lost Alambadi. A bull owner has to shell out at least `50,000 for its upkeep. Why would they torture the animal as claimed by PETA? On the other hand, the Spanish bullfight involves slaying of the bovines.” Deepak Chandrakanth, district secretary of the Student Federation of India, Coimbatore Chapter, summed it up, “There shouldn’t be a blanket ban on the sport. Let there be some reasonable regulations when jallikattu is conducted, for instance, an ambulance at the venue for the tamers and bulls and a committee to oversee the sport. But the game has to go on.”
 
 As the evening wore on, the cry to lift the ban on jallikattu reached a feverish pitch. Customised cars and bikes adorning pictures of the sport did the rounds as protesters wearing jallikattu T-shirts whistled and cheered them on.
 
