HYDERABAD: After a long wait, the   (LMA) has given a green signal to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to conduct a survey on an alternate link road proposed between Safilguda and R K Puram Rail Over Bridge (RoB) via the AOC Centre in   (SCB). 

 The LMA did not permit the civic body to carry out a survey on this stretch without permission of (MoD).
 
 The GHMC had proposed an alternate road for closure of Gough Road and other civilian roads blocked, with 60-feet ‘right of way’ (ROW) parallel to the railway line from   to R K Puram ROB . After a gap of nearly one year, MoD finally gave permission to LMA to conduct a survey.
 
 On Thursday, a high level meeting was held at GHMC office, Tank Bund with LMA, GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy and GHMC engineering department officials discussing alternate roads to clear civilian roads blockade in Cantonment areas and other issues like diverting sewer water entering into Ramannakunta Lake, removal of unauthorised encroachments on defence land near Neredmet and seeking army land on Road No 1, Banjara Hills (near Pension Office), Masab Tank for free left flow. 
 
 In the discussion, Army authorities told the GHMC to conduct a joint survey on 1.7 km stretch (which left over during GHMC survey one year ago) between Safilguda railway gate and R K Puram ROB link road on February 13. 
 
 “Already, GHMC has sent proposals on alternate roads and defence land to be required for widening to the Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD). A decision has to be taken at government level on seeking defence land with MoD,” GHMC commissioner, B Janardhan Reddy told TOI. “The MoD has agreed to keep open Gough Road opening till May 31 and the government meanwhile is making efforts to lay alternate roads, but they need defence land,” he said.
 
 Regarding Ramannakunta Lake, the GHMC authorities told the Army that the sewer water diversion work comes under Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB). The GHMC will also conduct a joint survey along with Army authorities on Balkampet nala at Lunger Houz in Mehidpatnam. President Cantonment Board Brigadiar A S Negi and other army officials attended the meeting.
 
