LUCKNOW: A united opposition led by the   in the legislative council attacked the   government over deteriorating law and order situation in the state on Tuesday. Raising the caste violence in Saharanpur on April 20, the Opposition demanded arrest of BJP MP Raghav Lakhan Pal for his alleged role in inciting the mob that attacked the residence of then  .

 The Saharanpur violence was raised under Rule 105 under which council proceedings are adjourned for taking up an issue of critical importance.   members, who had placed the notice, accused the BJP government of unleashing ‘Jungle Raj’ through its ‘saffron gamcha (stole) sporting brigade’. The Opposition also brought up the incident in Allahabad where a family of four was found murdered.
 
 SP MLC and leader of Opposition in the council,  , said the law and order is deteriorating because the BJP leaders are targeting the police force, leaving them demoralized. Hasan alleged that since the BJP came to power, police officials are being assaulted and even murdered. “The attack on SSP Saharanpur’s residence and humiliation of woman IPS officer Charu Nigam in Gorakhpur are the most prominent instances,” he said.
 
 “The BJP came to power by promising a robust law and order. But within two months of BJP rule, the law and order situation in the state has gone for a six. Today, there is no rule of law in the state,” Hasan said. Hasan, a former SP minister, also cited Monday’s incidents of loot and murder in Mathura and chain-snatchings of four women in Lucknow to push forth the Opposition’s point of view.
 
 Congress MLC   said it was perhaps the first time that the family of an SSP (Saharanpur) had to take refuge in a control room to save themselves from an (BJP) MP and his men. “A criminal threatening a police officer or his family may have happened in the past. But what happened in Saharanpur was unprecedented...the family of a senior police officer had to save itself from an elected representative,” he added.
 
 BSP legislative party leader Sunil Kumar Chittor said the state has not witnessed such incidents of caste violence and crimes in the past many years. “The BJP MPs and MLAs are throwing law to the winds,” he alleged.
 
 Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, however, defended the state government saying that action has already being initiated against the accused involved in violence and crime. “The BJP government won’t discriminate with anyone. Any accused person, irrespective of his/her stature, would be booked and brought to justice,” he said. Sharma said the state government was also identifying imposters who pretend to be BJP workers by donning saffron stoles and take law in their hands.
 
