Trichy: Households and commercial establishments will soon have to exercise caution before handing over their daily waste packet to corporation workers as presence of unsegregated plastic will invite penalties. The fine amount though has been kept at a meagre Rs 10 as the civic body’s main aim is to bring about a behavioural change among the citizens. 

 The move comes in the backdrop of the growing heaps of plastic at the Ariyamangalam dump yard in the city accounting for almost half of the 12 lakh tonnes of garbage. Getting rid of this chunk has been a big challenge for the civic body as people living around grapple with the health hazard. The prime reason for this huge plastic presence has been the haphazard dumping of unsegregated waste generated from across the city over several decades. 
 
 Making the landmark announcement, the civic body has now paved the way for a cleaner Trichy. If implemented properly, it would prevent non-biodegradable waste from reaching the dump yard and turning pollutants. The upcoming days will see a series of programmes and awareness drive by the civic body educating people on the need for such an initiative. 
 
 “Under the new rule producers are made responsible for collecting waste generated from their products,” said corporation commissioner N Ravichandran. Individual and bulk generators like commercial establishments will have to segregate plastic waste at source, he said. The initiative has been adopted from Tirunelveli corporation which bagged the best corporation award from the Union government for successful segregated collection of non-biodegradable waste. 
 
 According to the plan, segregated plastic waste from households and bulk generators would be collected once a week. This would be reused for laying roads and other purpose based on the need. “From June 5, we have planned to carry a massive drive every week on a particular day to collect plastic and other non-biodegradable waste,” said Ravichandran. “It will be a mass drive having officials from every department in the corporation along with conservancy workers in the field for the collection. By making the initiative a movement, we can reach out to a larger audience in the city,” he said. 
 
 A resolution is to be passed by the city corporation in this regard while bringing the order into effect from June 5. The remaining 45 days will see a series of programmes to spread the awareness on plastic waste segregation with the participation of stakeholders. There are four micro compost yards in the city covering a ne ward each. While members of women self-help groups make door-to-door collection, they say that a majority of the residents don’t segregate plastic waste despite the awareness drive.
 
 
