TRICHY: Admission to 150 MBBS seats for 2017-18 at   government medical   (KAPVGMC) here would be a smooth affair thanks to the renewal of its recognition by the medical council of India (MCI). The government hospital located in the central part of the state was granted approval recently based on the executive committee meeting of the apex body held in New Delhi on October 10, 2016. 

 “The executive committee of the council considered the assessment report of the two-day visit on August 30 and 31, 2016 and decided to recommend to the central government to renew the permission for admission of the fifth batch of MBBS students against the increased intake from 100-150 for the academic year 2017-8 in respect of KAP Viswanatham government medical college, Trichy,” said the minutes of the EC meeting. 
 
 Established in 1997 with 100 MBBS seats, the college was upgraded with 150 seats by the then chief minister   for the academic year 2013-14. An MCI team had visited the college and Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) attached to the college to check if they had the required faculty, bed strength and other facilities for quality medical education for 150 students. MCI would now check the facilities for five years from the date of inclusion of the additional seats. 
 
 It could be the first time that the college got the approval from the MCI without any queries about the discrepancies in facilities particularly shortage of faculty members. “The MCI team was satisfied with all the facilities in our college which were necessary for medical education. We have enough strength of faculty to ensure quality education to the students. With the approval from MCI, our college has the permission to admit the additional 50 students for the fifth batch,” dean of   told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The dean also said that MBBS students at the college would get a good exposure because of the 2,500 to 3,000 outpatients visiting it daily besides around 1,300 inpatients too. She also said that the number of faculty had been increased in all the 21 departments in the hospital and the college over a period of time. It may be recalled that KAPVGMC was facing trouble in getting approval renewed every time as the MCI team pointed out several deficiencies including shortage of faculty. 
 
