KARNAL: It has been six months since the   at Shekhpura village on Meerut road in Karnal has remained dysfunctional and been posing problems to the local residents. Municipal Corporation, Karnal, is now planning to cancel the work tender allotted to a Mumbai based company operating the project.
The compost produced in the solid waste management plant is not selling.Initially, the demand was high and the plant sold about 3,500 tonne of compost.
 
 Rajiv Girdhar, project engineer of Mumbai-based Hydroair Tectonics Pollution Control Development Limited (HTPL), told TOI, “The main issue is funding and creating awareness.The compost, which is produced by the plant, is of good quality, but there are no takers. In fact, government agencies like   (NFL) which were ordered by the government to buy the compost also refused to purchase it saying it was not in demand.“
 
 The company was issued a warning in November 2016, for not paying electricity bills. The MC has issued a notice to the company to make plant functional and pay the power bills gradually. The plant ran for about 10 days in January but has been shut since.
 
 Karnal municipal commissioner   said they had issued war nings to company time and again. “Now if they don't operate it, we will call for tenders and offer the project to some other agency. We will give it on contractual basis and new company will have to take the pain of selling compost and utilising it.“
 
 The HTPL had constructed the plant for Rs 32 crore, out of which around Rs 16 crore was paid by the Haryana government.
 
  Hoodaled Congress government had launched the project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission in 2012 to convert solid waste into compost and refuse-derived fuel.
 
 Karnal generates around 100 tonne of garbage daily.Due to non-functioning of the plant, waste is being dumped at the site leading to space crunch. It emits foul smell, causing problem to the residents living nearby.Instead of treatment, the waste is reportedly burnt causing air pollution.
 
