NEW DELHI: 
 

 
  Some actions of the Donald Trump administration have caused a fair amount of alarm among   to the US, and with those who are looking to immigrate there. Could this negatively impact the number of international students who head to the US for higher education?
 
 
  There is definitely going to be an overall impact on international students applying to the United States. There is clearly going to be a churn on the part of international students that they are not going to be welcome in the US based on their country of origin or religion. There was already concern that opportunities post-education in the US were drying up. That was affecting things. This further makes it worse. This is for international students in general.
 
 The latest data, which includes 2016, suggests that the overall population in the US for international students is a million-plus. This has been growing at 7 percent. Of this, the number of Indian students is around 200,000. That’s been growing at 16 percent a year. As has been China’s – 300,000 or 400,000 which has been growing at 16 percent a year.
 
 
  There is concern among some sections of Indian students and parents, especially over the lack of job opportunities. There is concern for some that an education in the US might not provide good returns on investment. How do you view this?
 
 
  While it is true that there is indeed a shrinking of job opportunities and some people are looking for a return on investment, the overall data does not show that there is a let up in the number of people coming in.
 
 While it is true that people are looking at ROI, there are a large number of Indian parents who are very happy to send their children abroad and not worry about the ROI. They can actually afford the education and have worked to be able to give it to their children. I see them all the time. Of course, they worry about their future. But they are sending them abroad because they are not getting what they want here.
 
 If you do the math of the supply-demand imbalance in India right now, you are going to see a continued outflow of Indian students, largely by parents who can afford to send them. And these people are going to be actively pulled by the US system, because the US system is going to increase the fees from the students to keep going.
 
 
  Is the US still attractive enough as a destination for higher education?
 
 
  The funding cuts there, with the demographic changes there, these universities are going to survive only on the back of international students, most of whom are going to come from India and China.
 
 While they may not have job opportunities that they may have had in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, I fundamentally believe that because of the state of our home education system, you are going to see sheer numbers rise in people heading to the US and other countries.
 
 I don’t see the large scale movement of Indian students into US universities stopping. I think there will be fears, I think there will be incidents and there will be things that will be made a big deal out of. But I do think in terms of sheer numbers you are going to see any reduction.
 
 
  And what about the fears among students that the Trump administration’s hard line against immigrants is going to affect them?
 
 
  I do think Trump wants good relations with India. I think he also wants the US higher education system to thrive. I think he is a commercial guy, a business guy.
 
 I think it works well for the US. I think someone is going to make that argument to him and he is probably going to say, “Let these guys come in. But we are not going to give them jobs.” Will this stop investments from going there? Maybe it will stop some investments from going there, things may slow down. But, the pressure on our system is such, you will not see this numbers abate.
 
 They need us. And we need them. Ultimately, the economic equation of supply-demand that is going to drive this trend. And Trump has no problem allowing this to flourish. It is in his interest to bring in students from around the world who are willing to pay for their education. And they are most likely going to come from India and China, where incomes are rising, and the local system is not meeting the demand. 
 
 All this Trump and Brexit and so on are very small aberrations, very small perturbations to the bigger trend. The bigger trend is that this number if 200,000 or so students who go to the US each year, that could rise to half a million before you know it. 
 
 
  But, is the time ripe for Indian students to consider other centres for higher education, for instance an Australia or a Canada?
 
 Sinha: Other countries are already trying to capitalise on this. I think all these countries are going to try and jump on the bandwagon. While some students will divert, the sheer numbers you are going to see needing higher education and affording higher education abroad will drive all of these trends. And to me, that one big trend will drive all other trends. Trump or not.
 
 
  So, what, in your view, is on the cards for Indian students?
 
 
  The big trend I believe we are going to see is the separation of education and employment. I would feel we will see a large number of Indian students come back to India. 
 
 
  But then, why then do they still want to go abroad for an education?
 
 
  I don’t think people have an option. That is the sad part. Despite all the resistance and the world saying, “I don’t want your kinds, I don’t want your talent and how dare you take jobs away from my citizens.” The kids have no option but to go to these places for an education and maybe get killed, which is what happened in Australia. And that is the sad crux of the matter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
