DHARAMSHALA:   would hope he puts his `shoulder' to the wheel in India's quest for winning the series against Australia, but the pitch at the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) Stadium here is as much a concern for the captain as it is for him to recover and get into the eleven for the fourth Test beginning Saturday .

 Question marks still hang over Kohli's availability for the seriesdecider, his shoulder injury permitting, and so do the leftover blades of grass on the track.
 
 But if the two captains are to be believed, the pitch doesn't look as pace-friendly as the stadium usu ally offers. Kohli, in fact, believes, there's something in it for “both disciplines“.
 
 “If you do well in any discipline (batting and bowling), you can reap in rewards on this kind of wicket,“ Kohli said. “It's very good for the batsmen to get in and get value for their shots. And the bowlers are always in the game (here). There is obviously good pace off the wicket for the quicks and there should be good bounce for spinners,“ he said. But Kohli also cautioned against any complacency in the mountain city , where overhead conditions can cause a change in nature of the pitch.
 
 “It's an opportunity for both and ball to dominate at different situations in the game. It will certainly test the players to the fullest,“ the India skipper said.
 
 Kohli's counter part,  , looked a bit indecisive on how the track would behave. Australia, who normally name their playing eleven on the eve of a Test, are in no mood of revealing their cards until the toss.
 
 “We haven't decided the eleven yet. I will name it at the toss tomorrow. The wicket, although there is some grass out there, looks pretty dry underneath. I think it will take a reasonable amount of spin as the game goes on,“ Smith said.
 
 But he also admitted that his pitch-reading skills have fallen apart earlier in the series. “I am not really sure how the wicket is going to play , to be very honest. I thought the wicket in Ranchi was not going to be very good (to bat) on the last day but it played very well. I am not very good at assessing wickets,“ he said.
 
 On those lines, the Australia captain wants a big total from his batsmen should the visitors get to bat first. “I think first innings runs are going to be crucial as they always are in Tests here in India. It's going to be important for us to go pretty big in the first innings,“ he said.
 
 
