UDAIPUR: The  , located on the  , is known because of its chequered history. The haveli has a very typical and   and a unique character. Presently, the haveli is under the possession of West Zone Cultural Centre which undertook 5 years of strenuous restoration work and spent huge amount of money to set up a museum depicting the royal life style,   carefully conserved to its pristine glory.

 “There is grave misinformation floating on websites and even signages at the haveli, Manakyalal Verma Park Doodh-Talai, that wrongly claim that the haveli, 9-km long city defence wall and small fortifications (Ambavgadh etc) were all constructed by Pradhaan Amarachand Sanadhya,” says writer and retired professor P S Ranawat. The haveli was in fact built for Nath Singh, the second son of Maharana Sangram Singh-II, the former became the Maharaj of Bagore in 1734 following the demise of his father while his elder brother Jagat Singh-II became the Maharana with whom he got along well.
 
 Nath Singh, however, had issues with the subsequent Maharanas who reportedly got him murdered in 1764, hence the Bagore Thikana and haveli became state properties. The haveli is remembered as seat of power of the Pradhaan Amarchand Sanadhya who successfully led the defence of Udaipur during the six-month siege of Mahadji Scindia between February and July 1769. This was the first and last instance when this manmade defence of Udaipur served its purpose successfully. After the demise of Pradhaan Amarchand, the haveli again became a part of the state property.
 
 Like all buildings, this haveli too was added upon by subsequent owners, the Maharaj of Bagore who were given back the jagir in the next generation by Maharana Hameer Singh-II. Bagore was again confiscated during the reign of Maharana Fateh Singh. His successor Maharana Bhupal Singh (1930-1955) renovated the haveli into a grade-III guesthouse, where palace guests were accommodated. After Independence, it was handed over to the government of Rajasthan which used it to house clerical government employees. Unfortunately, for almost 40 years the haveli was not maintained properly and the once-magnificent building deteriorated to pathetic condition.
 
 In 1986, when the government of India formed the West Zone Cultural Centre, the Rajasthan government handed over the haveli as headquarters for the new cultural body. They embarked upon a programme of faithful restoration, which continued well into the 21st century. There are 138 rooms, balconies, courtyards and terraces. The chambers of the royal ladies (zanana) contain fine fresco paintings and glass and mirror inlay work. Every evening a programme of traditional dance and songs is held here. Visitors also go to the Gangaur Ghat on the shore of Lake Pichola passing through the unique and artistic triple gate of this haveli.
 
 
