GURUGRAM: The   (DTCP) has asked Unitech to submit a revival plan for Vistas, along with a timeline for completion of the housing project that was launched in Gurgaon in 2009 but remains under construction eight years on.

 The department has also asked the real estate company to provide details of source of fund for completion of the project and open an escrow account which will be jointly managed by Unitech and RWA representatives. The DTCP’s directions came following a meeting of homebuyers with   at the project site in Sector 70 on Monday. Unitech had launched Vistas in 2009 and it was expected to be completed in the next three years. Initially it comprised of 1,252 units in phase 1, but later the developer increased the number of units to 1,516, with the launch of the second phase by revising its plan, for which approval from DTCP is still pending.
 
 “Even after several years, the developer has not been able to complete the project. Work has not even started in some of the blocks. We had approached the developer endlessly to get updates but never received a satisfactory response,” said Naveen Yadav, a homebuyer. “We are hoping that the government will intervene in the matter and help us in getting our home,” he added.
 
 Sandeep Mishra, another investor, alleged that licence (issued for three years) for the Vistas project had lapsed long time back and the developer has not been able to renew it.
 
 “The flats were sold out, but till date the developer has not able to get approval for its second phase,” said Mishra.
 
 When contacted, assistant town planner RS Batth told TOI, “We have asked Unitech to give timeline for its projects, including Vistas, and share the source of fund to complete the projects. In case of Vistas, the developer has also been asked to open an escrow account with homebuyers,” he added.
 
 A Unitech spokesperson said, “We are in regular touch with the buyers and making all efforts to complete the Vistas project. The company has managed to arrange the fund and construction work has started on the site and hoping to deliver on our promise made to buyers.”
 
