Under the leadership of G Vijayaraghavan, first CEO of Technopark and former member of state planning board, a world-class centre for   and related disorders is being set up in the state capital.
 
 The facility- Centre for Autism and other Disabilities Rehabilitation Research and Education (CADRRE) is being set up with the vision to transform the lives of children with Autism through best practice principles and family-centered holistic care. 
 
 "CADRRE is a not-for-profit entity set up with the assistance of Chandaria Foundation/ UST Global and K.Nandakumar/ SunTec Business Solutions as Donor Patrons and George M Thomas Foundation / Trivandrum International School as Donor. It is expected that several other organisations and individuals will support this initiative as it takes shape," said Vijay Raghavan who was also the founding director of the National Institute of Speech & hearing here.
 . 
 "CADRRE will achieve its Vision through comprehensive diagnosis and developmental assessment, evidence-based personalized appropriate intervention program, development-specific, personalized and structured learning program, monitoring and managing co-morbidities and progress (continuous assessment), ongoing family education and support; empowering the family to be the primary therapist, fostering life skills to be self-reliant, assistance in mainstreaming to formal education or employment, ongoing research on the different aspects of Autism and other disabilities and advocacy for Autistic children and affected families," he said.
  
  (ASD) is a   which has a significant impact on the individual’s development in childhood and in adult life. Autism is a rising medical and social challenge all over the world (in fact it is considered to be the fastest growing serious developmental disability in USA).
 
 It is estimated that 1 to 1.5% of children between ages two and nine in India are afflicted by Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Unfortunately no compulsory screening tests are done in India unlike in the developed countries and very few organizations in India provide proper therapies and support; there is also a significant gap between the needs of autistic children and their families and the delivery of high-quality remedial measurers.
 
 When all the phases of CADRRE are implemented it will probably be one of the first Institutions in India that will take care of Autistic children from Diagnosis to Rehabilitation and Mainstreaming holistically, developing over a period of time to be a centre for education, rehabilitation, research, and support for assisted living for adults with disabilities.
 
 It is planned that by the end of September 2017 CADRRE will start operations in rented premises in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram. This Center is being designed to cater to the needs of up to 50 children in the age group 1.5 years to 16 years and will have extensive indoor and outdoor facilities including play areas. Technology will be used to assist the learning and also for parents to observe their children at the centre.
 
 Discussions have already been initiated with leading centres in the United States to enable the training of the faculty of CADRRE at their centres.
 
 Based on the success of the Trivandrum Centre, City Centres will be established in 2 other cities in Kerala (Cochin and Kozhikode) in Phase 1 (4 years) and in other cities in India in Phase 2 (3-6 years).
 
 In 5 years, an independent campus will be built in 10-15 acres of land within 30 km of Trivandrum city. This campus, in addition to education and rehabilitation, will provide assisted living for adults with disabilities.
 
 Land will be acquired in the 3rd year of operations of CADRRE and construction will be completed over the next 2 years so the main campus will be ready at the end of the 5th year and will include residential area for 50 ASD persons, residential facilities for 25 technical and non-technical staff to take care of the needs of these 50 persons, occupational area for the 50 residents, training facility of 10,000 sq. ft.
 
