NAGPUR: In a major setback to ruling BJP and its MLA from Gadchiroli, Deorao Holi, the Nagpur bench of   on Thursday disqualified him and declared his seat vacant. The order came following a petition filed by his rival in the 2014 assembly elections Narayanrao Jambhule, who contested on the All India Forward Bloc’s ticket. The court’s verdict reduced BJP’s strength to 121 in the 288 member Maharashtra assembly. The case was listed before a bench led by Justice Zaka Haq.

 The petitioner, through counsel Pradip Wathore, asked how Holi’s candidature was allowed by the   (SEC) when a criminal case was lodged against him for alleged misappropriation of government’s funds during his stint as a medical officer and a departmental enquiry was under way. He pointed out that Holi’s rivals had even raised written objection against him during his nomination but all those were ignored.
 
 Holi was appointed medical officer Class-II in Group A services on February 9, 2009, and posted at Amgaon primary health centre (PHC) under Gadchiroli Rural Hospital. He opened ‘Shakuntala Memorial Sanstha’ for the sickle cell and was chairman of the same. Under a Zilla Parishad scheme, about Rs32.82 lakh were distributed. However, Holi allegedly pocketed Rs8.68 lakh in the names of 50 employees of his organization by submitting bogus documents. 
 
 On January 1, 2013, a police complaint was lodged against him under Sections 409, 420 and 34 of IPC at Chamorshi police station. A departmental enquiry was also instituted against him for misappropriation of funds. In order to avoid disciplinary proceedings, he tendered his resignation on August 19, 2013. However, the deputy director of health services deportment refused to accept the resignation on October 14, 2013.
 
 After declaration of assembly polls in 2014, Holi filed his nomination. His rival Bhagyashree Atram and one more person raised objections to his nomination pointing out he was still a government servant and his nomination could not be accepted. The petitioner also raised objections on getting knowledge about Holi still being in government service, but it wasn’t considered by the returning officer. Prior to that,   (MAT) refused to entertain Holi’s plea for quashing the departmental enquiry. 
 
 After Holi’s victory, petitioner again moved the SEC with an appeal to declare Holi’s elections null and void under Representation of People’s Act, 1951, for violation of rules. When he failed to get justice, he knocked the judiciary’s doors. Wathore informed that though Holi was acquitted of the criminal charges, the administrative action was pending on him for recovery of Rs8.68 lakh and, therefore, he couldn’t contest the elections.
 
 An upset Holi told TOI he would appeal the verdict in   and was confident of getting justice. “I will consult my seniors in the party including president Raosaheb Danve before approaching the apex court. My rival (Jambhule) could muster only 600 votes and as a revenge, he filed the case in court,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Megha Tiwari)
 
