NEW DELHI: Union minister   on Sunday maintained that cross-border trade links should be left to the wisdom of security agencies and politicians should not interfere in affairs involving national security.

 Without taking the name of J&K chief minister  , who had lashed out at the Centre, Singh responded to all the issues.
 
 Singh said security agencies were in best position to decide about trade links and their vulnerability. “Politicians irrespective of his/her stature should stay away from such issues as they might not be privy to the ground reality,” Singh added.
 
 Asked by TOI about Mufti’s remark on Hurriyat leaders’ arrest and also that an idea could not be killed, Singh said, “No idea or ideology can supersede the idea of India. Those not adhering to the law of the land will have to face the consequences.
 
 On Mufti’s tricolour remark, Singh said the country’s flag was sacrosanct and nobody could tinker with it.
 
 Singh was guarded in his views keeping in mind that BJP and   are running an alliance government in the state and it should not look like the two parties are on a collision course. 
 
 The current political scene is highly favourable for BJP, which has gained a massive edge over the opposition countrywide Party functionaries don’t want any dent to their rising graph, not even in J&K even as Mufti has been aggressive. 
 
 Mufti had opposed any attempts to bring changes in Article 370, which accords special status to the state. She came down heavily against arrest of Hurriyat leaders, saying one can’t kill an ideology.
 
 Jitendra Singh also strongly objected to the state government allowing Nayeem Gilani, the elder son of   chairman  , to be admitted to Srinagar hospital a day before he had to appear before an NIA team for questioning in a money laundering case.
 
 Singh told TOI that Nayeem should have been hospitalised after a thorough check up by medical experts including cardiologists. “Moreover, if he (Geelani) has some heart related issues, Delhi will be better for treatment than Srinagar,” he said.
 
