
Priya Chetty-Rajagopal, CXO Search Consultant, filed an online petition demanding an effective 100 Helpline, transport and street lights, which will go a long way in ensuring women’s safety. 
 “My petition is not just related to New Year’s Eve, but to general security. There are hundreds of things that need to change — especially the mindset of the mob, authorities and ministers — but we can’t do that overnight, so I chose three basic, tangible things that we can work on, which will make us feel safe as regular citizens. These simple, easy and accessible issues should remind the government that we are not asking for something special. So stop patronizing us. In this age, women’s rights and the ability to be self-determined is going backwards. It is regressive. There is sadness and anger at the   incident, but also fear, by which parents can tell a girl that ‘I told you not to go out at 11 pm.’ That fuels patriarchal authority, making us more helpless. My petition is to get authorities to act on small things that help us get more in control as citizens, and as women. I have mailed the petition to politicians, ministers and top cops, who can make a difference. Though I have not even started sharing the petition, it has already got hundreds of signatures. The intention is not to get people to just sign it, but have genuine concern and pain for a larger issue.”
 
 
 
 
 Brand Strategy Consultant   speaks about mob mentality.
 “There are two kinds of mobs — one that assembles with alcohol, and one that assembles for a cause. The mob on New Year’s Eve on MG Road and   was all about alcohol. All they intended to do was use Happy New Year as a pick-up line. These mobs breed in the power of numbers and anonymity. Identity is insecurity for these people, as they are cowards. They function the way they do, because they can’t be identified. They are knitted together by the location and intention. The commonality in them is the background. One look at each other and they know what they are here to do. Mobs are known to function in the same way across the world; take the example of the mob in   that was involved in mass molestation last New Year’s Eve. Also, mob action is contagious. If they see one person doing something, they start doing the same. It is like the behaviour of animals that always hunt in packs.
 
 
