KOCHI: Two more suspects were taken into custody by police on Sunday for allegedly raping a well-known actor on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The special investigation team probing the shocking crime is now exploring the possibility of a wider conspiracy. 

 At a protest meeting here on Sunday, leading members of the film fraternity extended their support to the survivor, even as the ruling CPM tried to play down the kidnap and sexual assault as an “isolated incident”. 
 
 CPM state secretary   felt that the law and order situation in the state had not deteriorated. 
 
 “It is an isolated incident and because of this you cannot claim that the law and order situation in the state has worsened,” he said, adding that the law and order situation in   was better than what it was under the UDF regime. 
 
 He tried to put up a brave face by comparing the incidents and past statistics when the media approached him to seek his views on this particular case. 
 
 Kodiyeri was pleased that the police had arrested the driver who was in constant communication with the gang who tried to abduct the actor. 
 
 “This shows that the police acted swiftly and nabbed the culprits. The investigation is going in the right direction,” he said. Meanwhile actor-turned-politician M Mukesh said that the prime accused in this case was his former driver. “I never knew that he had a criminal background when he was my driver. He was my driver for quite some time before he moved out. Later, I learnt that the police had arrested him in some criminal case,” he said. 
 
 Mukesh said that he had talked to DGP Loknath Behera and asked him to take swift action in the case and nab all culprits. “The DGP has promised swift action to ensure safety for actors,” said Mukesh. 
 
 Meanwhile, producer   too revealed an incident that happened five years ago when Pulsar Suni was assigned a job to drop his wife Menaka at a hotel. “ Instead of dropping her at the hotel booked by the producer, he took her to another hotel after roaming around for several hours,” said Suresh.
 
 ‘Vadival’ Salim and Pradeep were nabbed from a hideout in Coimbatore by a police team headed by Ernakulam Rural SP, A V George. There are six accused in the case and three of them, including the prime accused,   aka ‘Pulsar’ Sunil, are absconding. Police lookout notices have been issued to various airports to nab the three. 
 
 Forensic experts on Sunday searched the Tempo Traveller which the accused had abandoned in Kochi and collected fingerprints and possible DNA samples. Officially, police maintained that the motive for the rape was extortion after recording the actor’s images in compromising positions, but senior officials close to the investigation team confessed it was hard to believe that Sunil had plotted the incident on his own. According to police sources, he offered Rs 30 lakh to his accomplices for committing the crime.
 
 
  
 
