NEW DELHI: In an important verdict, the   has struck down the Central Board of Secondary Education’s selective re-evaluation policy that restricted students from availing the option in just 10 subjects and 10 questions per subject.

 Spelling relief for students, a division bench comprising Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal termed the restrictions as “eccentric” and said students can now seek re-evaluation in all subjects.
 
 “It is rather eccentric to first provide for the facility of re-evaluation to the candidates and thereafter put unreasonable restrictions. The board cannot afford to ignore individual claims of re-evaluation at its whims or fancy, by merely ‘pick and choose’ of subjects or number of questions,” the bench observed while ruling in favour of two students.
 
 The board had introduced a rule in its examination scheme to allow students to apply for re-evaluation, but restricted the number of questions and the subjects to be re-evaluated. By way of a notification in May 2015,   brought out these rules after amending the by-laws, which the court found to be “manifestly unjust, unreasonable and partial”.
 
 Pointing out the pitfalls of CBSE continuing with such a rule, the bench observed that it “would lead to discontentment and frustrations if the students who put in a lot of effort do not get the results they expect” adding that “it should be the students’ prerogative to get their answer sheets re-evaluated in order to ensure proper assessment is done”.
 
 In the process, the court upheld two separate single-judge verdicts. In one a single judge had faulted CBSE for allowing just 10 questions for re-evaluation, while the second bench ordered it to re-evaluate a student’s physical education theory paper, despite the board claiming that PE is not covered under its subjects where re-look is permitted.
 
 The board argued before the division bench that it stores lakhs of copies after the examination, as many students apply for re-evaluation. Defending its restriction on number of questions and number of subjects, CBSE maintained it had to exercise some discretion, else will be flooded with such requests. It even cited certain   judgments, to bolster its argument that it has the power to deny re-evaluation of answer sheets. 
 
 However, the HC rejected its stand and noted that administrative difficulties of the board can’t over-ride the future of a candidate. 
 
 CBSE had decided to scrap the re-evaluation of class XII answer sheets in 2016 and the court order is a setback. In 2014 it introduced re-evaluation in eight subjects, which it extended to 10 in the subsequent year, becoming the only board to facilitate this service.
 
 There is a three step process wherein the student first needs to apply for recounting of marks if in doubt and thereafter he/ she can ask for the photocopy of the evaluated answer sheets. If not satisfied, the third step is re-evaluation of the answer sheet. All the three steps are linked and a student can’t ask for re-evaluation without following the preceding two steps.
 
 
