HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board's (HMWS & SB) attempts to use technology to plug leaks and improve its distribution network failed twice.The HMWS&SB had wanted to implement geographic information system (GIS) to the Water Supply Distribution Network Project for peripheral circles of GHMC, but none of the bidders met the criteria.

 The state government has pumped in `1,900 crore HUDCO loan to construct 56 service reservoirs with a total storage capacity of 279 million litres and lay 2,600 kilometre length water trunk and distribution network in the 11 GHMC peripheral circles.
 
 “For the first time, the water board wanted to use GIS technology for the newly-laid water pipeline network in 11 GHMC peripheral circles. The GIS technology will help us track quantum of water supply. The data can be viewed at any location and repairs, if any , can be attended. If the technology yields better results, then we will extend it to the entire city,“ HMWS&SB director-technical, P S   told TOI.
 
 The water board would spend nearly `two crore and invited tenders for GIS gadgets. “After the deadline a few days ago, the we found only three firms had filed tenders.However, during scrutiny of the bids, we found that none of the firms filed the required information of GIS technology .We were forced to reject the bids. A fresh tender notifica tion was issued,“ he said.
 
 Similarly , the water board wants to purchase a ground penetration radar (GPR) to check potential leakage points in the sewer network, but none of the firms came forward to file tender papers. The water board wanted to purchase the GPR after several road cave-in incidents were reported in the city , causing inconvenience to road-users, in the last few months.
 
 For the first time, the water board had utilised the GPR after a road cave-in incident occurred near   in   in December last. It had roped in experts from the   (NGRI) to identify the leak. The   scientists identified the leak source with the GPR. Seeing the benefits of technology , the water board authorities decided to buy a GPR gadget, which costs around `25 lakh, and invited tenders.
 
 No firm has filed tender papers to sell GPR. The HMWS & SB officials feel the GPR would be useful to check the health of the sewer network spread over nearly 5,000 km.
 
