Mumbai:  , which sold its domestic formulation business to   for $3.8 billion in 2010, has been steadily rebuilding its pharmaceutical operations, mainly through assets that are a “strategic-fit and value-accretive”. The Rs 6,600-crore  , the flagship company of the group, will continue to invest in each of the three business verticals of pharmaceuticals, financial services and data management, group chairman   said in an interview. He added that pharma business and financial services will be demerged in the medium term. Optimistic about recovery in the economy and rallying behind Prime Minister’s   move, he said “more was made out of it, than (what) facts showed”.

 What will be the group’s strategy going forward? 
 
 We will continue to invest in each of the businesses if their performance is good, organically and through acquisitions. Each of these (verticals) need to earn their right to grow. We have been rebuilding the pharmaceutical business through organic growth and acquisitions over the last two years, investing Rs 3,000 crore in the last two years. Similarly, we have been growing in OTC — our biggest business within pharmaceuticals through the inorganic route. 
 
 Is there a specific strategy in terms of investments in verticals?
 
 Each of these (verticals) needs to earn their right to grow. We will invest wherever there is a strategic-fit, where the assets are value-accretive, and where they leverage growth. 
 
 Please give us some details about this acquisition...
 
 In this case, it is a good fit to grow our business in the US, and in line with the strategy to move up the value chain in differentiated therapy. We will focus on assets — wherever the product is difficult to manufacture, sell or distribute, and where there is not too much of competition. All acquisitions are expected to be value-accretive and will improve our growth. High ebitda margins of the acquired products are expected to enhance our profitability. Access to niche critical care market diversifies our offering, and will leverage our sales and distribution of brands (in the US). At present, the US contributes 35-40% of our revenues, and will grow when it (acquisition) will start contributing from the first quarter of FY18. 
 
 What are the plans to demerge healthcare business from Piramal Enterprises? 
 
 We want to ultimately look at Piramal Enterprises as separate business for pharmaceuticals and financial services. We will do it in the medium term, once the board decides. All our acquisitions, and in some ways moving up the value chain and getting more critical mass, are steps towards that. 
 
 
