PATNA: Bihar   flout the Information Technology Act-2008 while probing cybercrime cases in the state. It came to light when economic offences unit (EOU)   pointed it out while speaking at a function during the Police Week celebrations last week.
 
  According to Section 78 of the Information-Technology Act, a police officer not below the rank of inspector shall investigate any offences under this Act. However, Bihar police, which are already overburdened, have not even sufficient number of police inspectors to deal with the cases related to cybercrime.
  
  When asked, DGP P K Thakur said the EOU frequently conducts courses for making policemen aware about the provisions of IT Act and case investigation. “SIs and ASIs immediately take up the cybercrime cases for investigation, but subsequently these are transferred to inspector rank officers,” the DGP clarified.
  
  Gangwar also raised his concern over non-registration of FIR in cyber fraud cases in which the IT Act is applicable.
  
  “Patna and Muzaffarpur are on top in cyber fraud cases which are handed over to sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors for investigation,” he said.
  
  The state police still do not have proper infrastructure and dedicated police personnel to deal with cybercrime. According to Gangwar, most of the cybercrime cases are related to fraudulent online transactions, defined as cashless loot. The number of such cases is increasing tremendously in Bihar, he said.
  
  An Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer with expertise in global cybercrime and frauds was especially roped in from Delhi during the Police Week to impart knowledge on cybercrime.
  
  The IB officer told the policemen about the server of a police station in the US was hacked on January 27 this year and the hackers demanded ransom in Bitcoin which was not paid after guidelines from the FBI. Later, the police station lost all its data as server memory was wiped out by the hackers.
  
  The officer also briefed the audience about an incident in which hackers successfully transacted $US90 million from the account of Bangladesh Central Bank through five different transactions but a similar group failed to hack a Mumbai-based Indian bank due to higher cyber security system installed in its system.
