GURUGRAM: In November 2015, when chief minister   inaugurated the Snapdeal headquarters in Udyog Vihar Phase 4, there was a lot of excitement in the air, with everyone deeming it as a major development that was bound to push the Gurgaon start-up industry.

 The sprawling campus, which boasts of a basketball court, gymnasium and a salon, had 5,000 employees. Fifteen months later, the number of people working at   Towers has come down to just about half that, after several rounds of firings. The atmosphere reeks of negativity.
 
 On Wednesday morning, Kunal Bahl and  , the founders of Snapdeal, sent an email to their employees, talking about ‘tough decisions’ which are required to turn the company profitable. The mail was followed by another round of firings, which, according to sources affected 250-300 people.
 
 Sources further said Snapdeal is likely to close one of its offices in Gurgaon. It has two offices — ASF Towers and ASF Insignia — both located in Udyog Vihar.
 
 One of the employees who lost his job on Wednesday told TOI the human resources manager told him he had an option to choose between leaving or continuing to work in an atmosphere of negativity.
 
 “I got an option to take one month’s salary and three months’ severance package, and decided to leave. As it is, the last few weeks haven’t been very productive, due to an absolute lack of motivation,” said the ex-Snapdeal employee, who was working with the tech team. He added many of his team members were also laid off the same day.
 
 The email sent to employees on Wednesday, which came after a long period of confusion, chaos and apprehension within the company, read, “As a part of our profitability plan that is currently in full swing, we will be reorganising the company into a lean, focused and entrepreneurial one. We are combining teams, reducing layers and eliminating non-core projects.”
 
 At ASF Towers, people are still on tenterhooks and mulling over their future, as the firing is expected to continue at least till the end of this week. “The process is still on and will go on till the end of this week. The number of people fired this week will be the maximum ever,” said a senior employee.
 
 He added there’s still a lot of pressure on employees, who are wondering if they will be on the next list. At the cigarette kiosk outside the office, most faces wearing Snapdeal ID cards were drawn long.
 
 Between last week and Wednesday, the only thing that has changed is the number of guards at the entry gate, and the tone of conversations, which have gone from hushed to a chatter. Security arrangements have been beefed up and people being fired have been asked to leave immediately.
 
 “Almost everyone inside the company is sitting in a group, either in the canteen or the corridors or outside, and discussing the developments. How can one even work in such an environment?” said a group of employees in unison. They work with the supply chain department.
 
 Recent events have not been a total surprise for the workforce, and probably that is the reason many had started looking for new avenues long before they were told to leave. “This had to happen sooner or later, given that the company was not making profits, not getting any fresh round of funding, and the founders were not getting the valuation they wanted. I’m glad I planned ahead and got myself an offer before the drama unveiled,” said an employee outside the Snapdeal office.
 
 Amidst rumours of the company being bought over by Paytm, every employee is currently counting days.
 
 
