GHAZIABAD:   ( ) and their apex bodies in Ghaziabad are once again pressing their demand for the proper implementation of the   (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, ( ) in the state.

 Although the Act was passed by the Rajya Sabha on March 10, 2016, the Union ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation had rolled out the draft rules of RERA in June 2016.
 
 Homebuyers, who had their hopes pinned on the much-awaited Uttar Pradesh Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2016, against the tyranny of builders, started demanding a rollback soon after the rules were made public. They said the draft rules notified by the ministry diluted the effect of RERA.
 
 Buyers also alleged that the previous government had diluted the rules as they were in cahoots with real estate developers. The notified state Rules for RERA 2016 further strengthens the position of the developers instead of making them liable, they claimed.
 
 Abhay Upadhyay, from FIGHT for RERA, a pan-India organisation, said the draft already had a lot of loopholes that were perpetuated by the   state rules.
 
 Upadhyay said the rules announced by the state favoured the builders. 
 
 For instance, he said, real estate projects where RWAs or resident bodies have taken over maintenance responsibilities from the builder cannot be considered ongoing, thereby insulating the builder from the liability of any delay.
 
 A letter in this regard has been sent by AOA Federation, a body of Ghaziabad AoAs headed by T P Tyagi, to chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi. T P Tyagi told TOI that RERA Rules which have been diluted have no provision for the punishment of builders. “We had also written to Ram Naik, the governor of Uttar Pradesh. He in turn wrote to Akhilesh Yadav, the then CM of UP in this regard but to no avail. We hope that the new government will act on the issue,” Tyagi said.
 
 Sahibabad MLA Sunil Sharma said he would raise the issues with the UP government. “The issues will be represented to the relevant departments of the ministry and proper action will be initiated on them,” Sharma said.
 
 
