CHANDIGARH: The   leadership formally discussed its probable candidate for the Gurdaspur byelection at a meeting in Delhi on Sunday. Apart from Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and Qadian ex-MLA Charanjit Kaur Bajwa, names of other aspirants from the area were also discussed and the final decision regarding the candidate has been left to the party high command.

 Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday met AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Asha Kumari and Jakhar to discuss the feedback gathered from the local leaders of the party.
 
 According to information, while most of the party legislators from Gurdaspur have recommended Jakhar’s name,   MP   has been lobbying to get a ticket for his wife Charanjit Kaur, who had made way for her brother-in-law Fatehjung Bajwa in line with one-family, one-ticket rule of the party for the assembly elections.
 
 Besides, there are other aspirants such as three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri, who lost the Batala assembly election with a narrow margin of just 400 votes to Akali Dal’s Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal.
 
 A section of Congress leaders have also been asking Partap Singh Bajwa to make a comeback into active politics.
 
 “The name of the candidate is likely to be announced in another two days. The view of the three leaders will be passed on to the Congress president   and party vice president  , who is abroad, and is also being kept updated. The panel may also meet again before meeting Sonia ji,” said a senior party leader.
 
 “While those proposing Jakhar’s name are of the view that he will ensure a concerted effort by the party, Partap Bajwa’s supporters are of the view that his wife Charanjit Kaur is seen as a local leader and this will not give   a chance to target the Congress as AAP has already named Maj Gen   (retd), who is from Pathankot, as its candidate,” added another party leader.
 
 “Gurdaspur has a sizeable Hindu population and many local leaders have asked the leadership to take that into account as the AAP and the   may try to get an edge on this,” he said.
 
 An official spokesperson of the party said the meeting discussed the political scenario in the constituency and also mulled over various options with respect to the selection of the party candidate. It was decided that, as in the February assembly polls, the Congress would stick to its policy of merit-based selection, with the final decision on candidature to vest with AICC president Sonia Gandhi and vice president Rahul Gandhi.
 
 The three leaders were unanimous in their opinion that only popular candidates with a clean track record should be considered for nomination to the seat. It was decided at the meeting that various developmental works initiated by the Congress government in the state since taking over reigns in March this year, would constitute the key campaign plank for the party, added the spokesperson.
 
