NAGPUR: Even as harassment of forest officials in Pench tiger poaching case has become a complex issue, four foresters were beaten by a mob of villagers at Gothangaon gate of the Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary Saturday night.

 According to Gothangaon sarpanch Kailash Hudme, resentment among villagers against forester Shailesh Pardhi was brewing for last few months for frequent action against them for grazing cattle and goats in Zudpi jungle adjoining the sanctuary.
 
 In the instant case, public reaction was fuelled by beating and abuse of 21-year-old Sandeep Vasanta Kakde of Karhandla, who was grazing his goats in Zudpi jungle near Rajoli Lake.
 
 “Two days ago, Pardhi had recovered a fine of Rs3,500 from Venkat Luche for grazing cattle in forest area. Luche is witness to Kakde’s beating,” said Hudme.
 
 Gothangaon RFO Ghanshyam Thombre blamed Hudme for instigating villagers for grazing in forest area. “On August 15, during gram sabha meeting, he (Hudme) told villagers that grazing is permitted in forest area. Action against Kakde was taken for grazing goats inside the sanctuary area,” Thombre said.
 
 Hudme denied the charge. “I was not at the spot when violence took place. But people told me Kakde was not grazing animals in sanctuary area but on the fringes of the park. He was not only abused and beaten on the spot but was also taken to nearby protection hut where he was assaulted further.
 
 “When the word spread, a mob of 2,000 locals including women from 7-8 villages gathered at the spot and wanted the foresters to release Kakde. The dispute led to heated arguments between foresters and villagers. The locals damaged the forester’s office by breaking doors and windows and started beating them,” said Hudme.
 
 Those who were beaten included round officer Pardhi, woman forest guards Rohini   and Bhagyashree Ikhar. The guards somehow fled the scene. Even RFO Thombre was not spared and was slapped and manhandled for supporting staff.
 
 The mob dispersed only when police from Umred, Kuhi and Veltur reached the spot around 7pm. Veltur API Avinash Upase said, “We have registered FIR against 20-25 people for rioting. The foresters’ action followed as grazing was being done in reserve forest. Medical examination of Gurnule and Pardhi and the offender Kakde has been done. We are verifying   footage.”
 
 Upase said, “The foresters being government employees, we are waiting for X-ray and medical reports of Kakde for registering FIR.”
 
 Hudme said the gram sabha has already passed a resolution against transfer of Pardhi and Thombre, who took over two months ago. “We have apprised Pench CCF Rishikesh Ranjan about our anger. Both have failed to maintain cordial relations with the communities,” said Hudme.
 
 
