UDUPI: With rainfall in the district comparatively less this year, the availability of   has already become a point of concern. The municipality is taking various measures to cope with the situation. The inflow of the water has already stopped and at  , sand bags have been placed to  . 

 Last year, water level in Shiroor reservoir was 5.97 metres and now, it is 5.5 metres. As per the order from Udupi deputy commissioner T Venkatesh, farmers were asked not to use water for agricultural purpose. Contractors have also been ordered not to use drinking water for construction or for unnecessary usages.
 
 Raghavendra, environmental engineer said, “This year, rainfall dropped more than 25% in the district. However, we have set up alternative measures to overcome acute water shortage during summer by reviving wells and borwells and the work is started already at four places. The city needs 22 million litres of water per day (mld). 
 
 “If we provide water regularly, we might face shortage for 45 days (upto June). Hence, we are thinking of providing water on every alternate day from the second week of February and prior to this, a meeting will be called to discuss the same. Few up-lying areas in the city are now facing water shortage and they are being supplied water with the help of tankers. Five tankers are used for the purpose,” he added.
 
 “Storage capacity is a matter of concern here. Baje has 6 metres and Shiroor has 3 metre storage capacity and an additional one metre we have stored using sand bags. However, we cannot go beyond that. Thinking about the need for water in the city, we cannot raise a concrete wall at the dam, if we do so, backwater area will face disaster during monsoon. So, shortage is in the storage itself, which has no alternative solution,” he said.
 
  commissioner Manjunathayya said, “We want the public to use water carefully. There are 17,862 connections in the city and 6 panchayaths. Rationing of water may start soon. We appeal to the public not to waste drinking water. We have minimized three connections per flats . Water bill pending above Rs 5,000 will be disconnected.” 
 
