RAJKOT: The  , the premier training institute for the electric engineers of the  , in Jamnagar, is celebrating its platinum jubilee this year. The establishment boasts of a rich maritime heritage dating back to pre-independence India of 1942 when the British Navy set up a Torpedo School at Jamnagar on December 15, 1942 and named it Val Sura from the Tamil words Val (Sword) and Surah (Fish).

 “The Swordfish was a legendary World War II Torpedo carrying aircraft which was extensively used. History has it that the waters around Jamnagar were home to the swordfish too and hence the name was very apt,” an official statement from INS Valsura stated. 
 
 “As part of the platinum jubilee celebrations, the Indian Navy is commemorating the event with a unique ‘Coast to Coast’ Social outreach programme to connect with the children and youth of the country along both coasts. A mega road trip in five cars will cover a distance of 6000 kms touching all major naval establishments and places of Naval Maritime Heritage enroute. The Naval team will interact with local people, war veterans and widows and visit schools and colleges to spread awareness about the Indian Navy,” the statement added.
 
 Vice Admiral AR Karve, flag officer commanding–in-chief,   is the chief patron for the event and the entire outreach programme is being undertaken as an initiative of the Southern Naval Command. 
 
 The participants departed from INS Valsura on Thursday and will reach Kochi on March 22 after touching Lothal, Gandhinagar, Mumbai, Goa, Mangalore, Ezhimala and Calicut. Interaction at various schools and colleges is being organized at Kochi before flag off ceremony on March 24 by the FOCINC(South) Vice admiral AR Karve, from the Naval Base at Kochi.
 
 The team would return to Jamnagar on April 2 after covering the east coast of India upto Visakapatnam with numerous interactions at Puducherry, Nellore, Rajahmundry and Hyderabad. The car rally was flagged off on Thursday by Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni, chief of staff, headquarters, Southern Naval Command. 
 
