CHANDIGARH: A majority of farmers in Punjab are not doing enough to   even though they are aware that the availability of the precious resource is dangerously low in the agrarian state, a draft report on Punjab submitted to the   (ICSSR), New Delhi, had revealed last year.

 In the report, ‘Water Use Efficiency in Punjab: The Issue of Sustainability’, for which researchers interviewed 300 farmers living in 30 villages spread across 10 districts, it was found that about 89% farmers were neither harvesting rainwater nor conserving water. The findings are a cause of concern because a separate report by the Indian Institute of Soil and  , Chandigarh, had said that ground water in Punjab was declining at an average rate of 20-30 cm per year. “It is declining in 80% areas of the state, where   is good and canal water supply is limited. The worst-hit districts in terms of declining water table are: SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Moga, Patiala, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and Amritsar,” the report had said.
 
 The ICSSR study also revealed that a majority of farmers were aware of the declining water table. “The sensitivity towards water-use efficiency, harvesting and conservation is quite low. About 89% farmers are neither harvesting rainwater nor conserving water,” said the report.
 
  “In all, 95% industrial units do not use any water-harvesting technique. As regards installation of the water saving device(s), nearly 45% of the medium- and large-scale industrial units under study reported the installation of one or the other water saving device,” it added.
 
 Prof RS Ghuman of Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), who put the report together, said one of the key recommendations to the state government was that electricity subsidy to farmers should be targeted.
 
 The report has underlined the need for organizing awareness camps along with execution of projects to make farmers rationalize water usage. It also suggests demonstration of various techniques for water management and conservation of irrigation water to farmers.
 
 According to the report on Punjab’s ground water, 14% areas in the state have seen a rise in water table owing to less extraction of ground water because of its brackish quality, which is unfit for use for domestic and irrigation purposes. “There is rise in water table in Mansa, Moga, Bathinda, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Faridkot and Ferozepur districts, where the water level has gone up. In general, water level in the state ranges from 0.20 metre below ground level (BGL) in Ferozepur district to 32.28 metres BGL in Fatehgarh Sahib District,” it said.
 
 
 
 Ground water in Punjab is declining at an average rate of 20-30 cm per year
 
 In Ferozepur district, the water below ground level has fallen to 32.28 metres
 
 Water table has risen only in areas where brackish water is available under ground
 
 The worst-hit districts in terms of declining water table are: SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Moga, Patiala, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and Amritsar.
 
