PATNA: State finance minister   on Friday asked the banks operating in Bihar to expedite the process of opening more branches in rural areas and extending credit in agriculture and social welfare sectors or wind up their operations in the state.

 Reviewing the third quarterly   (SLBC) meeting here, Siddiqui asked the banks to either achieve the targets set for opening rural branches and those set under annual credit plan, especially in the social, agriculture and farmers’ credit card or close down their branches in the state. The finance minister lashed out at commercial banks for having “poor” credit-deposit (CD) ratio of 38% till the third quarter end this fiscal.
 
 “The RBI had set the target of opening 1640 new branches in rural areas in Bihar in 2016-17. However, only 114 branches were opened by the third quarter end. Besides, many banks have made 0% progress in extending loans in various sectors, including medium enterprises, micro enterprises, weavers’ credit card and renewable energy, among others. There is no use of running branches if banks are making 0% progress in such key sectors,” said Siddiqui.
 
 The minister said a number of banks, including UCO Bank, Bank of India, Andhra Bank, Bank of Maharashtra,  , Indian Overseas Bank, IDBI Bank and HDFC among others made 0% progress in achieving the target set for opening branches in rural areas (villages with population above 5,000 with no bank) in 2016-17.
 
 Similarly, Corporation Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, United Bank, Vijaya Bank and Federal Bank and  , among others, made 0% progress in extending credit for medium enterprises. A number of leading banks had 0% progress in extending credit in the social sector, including micro enterprises, small road transport, weavers’ credit card and renewable energy, among others.
 
 Of the set target of Rs1 lakh crore for extending credit in the agriculture sector in the ongoing fiscal, the banks have achieved only 65% of it till the end of the quarter. 
 
 “Despite the fact that more than 70% of the population in Bihar stays in the rural areas and agriculture sector is on the priority list of central as well as state government, the banks have made only 7% progress in agriculture-infrastructure sector in the state in the current fiscal. Besides, only 11% progress has been made in bank credits to weaker sections. I don’t want to see such poor figures and repeat the same issues in the next meeting of SLBC. Thus, banks should either act earnestly in these sectors or close down their operations in Bihar,” said Siddiqui.
 
 The finance minister also asked the banks to expedite the progress in the student credit card scheme under seven resolves of chief minister  . Siddiqui said out of 600 applications received since the launch of the scheme on October 2 last year, only 60 have been approved till date.
 
