BHUBANESWAR:   Security Guard (NSG) on Sunday described citizens of the country as ‘eyes and ears’ of security forces and exhorted the public to remain vigilant towards terror suspects. 

 “We do not think any security force is first responder to terror strikes. It is the public who are first responders. They are the eyes and ears of any security force. If the citizens remain alert and inform security agencies about suspicious movements of subversive groups, we can easily tackle terrorism,” NSG’s deputy commandant   said. Kumar was here on Sunday, leading a group of 32 NSG commandos on a bike expedition across the country. The team that embarked on the journey on September 7 from its training camp at Manesar in Haryana to sensitise citizens about the latter’s role in checking terrorism so far covered over 5,500 kilometres in six states. State’s senior police officers, including director general of police R P Sharma, additional DG (headquarters)   and police commissioner Y B Khurania felicitated the commandos here upon their arrival in the capital city. 
 
 Sharma said the NSG commandos interacted with youth, mostly students, IT professionals and social activists in different states and apprised them of joining hands with the elite counter-terrorism force to effectively handle crisis situations. “We keep sending our personnel to NSG camps for training on counter terrorism. We also plan to send our bomb disposal squads to the NSG camps for training,” Sharma told TOI. 
 
 Already battered by Naxal menace, Odisha police have been on their toes after terrorism emerged as a new challenge in 2015. In January 2014, two Indian Mujahideen operatives allegedly conducted recee in Puri and Bhubaneswar. 
 
 Police received a jolt in January 2015 when Balasore police arrested one Iswar Chandra Behera on charges of leaking vital information from the integrated test range (ITR) in Chandipur to Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. Behera had been working as a contractual cameraman at the ITR, which stands amongst the high risk category installations in the country. In the fag-end of 2015, arrest of suspected al-Qaida operative   from Cuttack pressed the panic button for the state police. Spectre of terrorism continued to surface following arrest of five suspected SIMI operatives from Rourkela on February 17, 2016. 
 
