NEW DELHI: Drunk drivers will have to pay the entire compensation for causing death or injury in a road crash. According to the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill introduced in the   on Friday, insurance companies will not pay any compensation in such cases awarded by the Motors Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT).

 However, the road transport ministry has not included the provision of trying drunk drivers for “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” in case of death caused by them in a crash, which is a non-bailable offence and attracts 10-year jail term. Though the ministry had accepted the recommendation of a parliamentary panel, it referred the suggestion to the home ministry as it requires an amendment in the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Experts said while the provision of holding drunk drivers to pay the full compensation is likely to act as a deterrent, there is also a fear that in many cases victims may end up getting little compensation since it will depend on the income and paying capacity of the accused driver. “Why is the government putting such a provision when it’s aware of the income of professional drivers? This will indirectly benefit the insurance companies. Any single drunk driver hitting road is a failure of the government authorities,” said S P Singh of IFTRT, a Delhi-based think tank on transport issues.
 
 Introducing the bill, Road Transport Minister   said the objective behind the proposed law is to reduce road fatalities by half. The bill provides for stringent penalties, including jail term and suspension of driving licence, for offences such as  ,  , dangerous driving and double penalty on enforcement personnel for committing any offence. The proposed law will also have provision for regulating  .
 
 Another new change that the road transport ministry has introduced is imposition of Rs 1 lakh penalty each on vehicle owner and dealer for getting registration based on false documents. Similarly, the bill provides for a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh for road owning or maintenance agencies where faulty design or maintenance results in death or injury.
 
 This fine is to be deposited with the Motor vehicle Accident Fund, which will be constituted.
 
 Though the government has done away with the the earlier provision of limiting liability of insurance companies for paying compensation to the third party, it has incorporated a clause which gives an option to the victims or their kin to reach a quick settlement with the insurance company concerned by accepting compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh for injuries and Rs 5 lakh for death. This amount will have to be disbursed within three months.
 
 After taking such compensation, their case in the MACT shall lapse.
 
