NASHIK: The Nashik division’s   have registered a total of   on highways passing through their jurisdiction in 2016 as against 130 accidents registered in 2015. The maximum road accidents have been registered under the Dhule tab of the highway division.

 Deputy superintendent of police B M Kure said the attempt was on to bring down the number of road accidents in their jurisdiction for which they were  .
 
 Kure said some places under their jurisdiction have witnessed a drop, while more deaths have been reported at other places. “The Pimpalgaon tab of the highway police registered 34 deaths in 2015. Last year, the number of deaths dropped to 12. The Sinnar tab also witnessed a significant drop in road accidents deaths from 61 in 2015 to 35 in 2016.
 
 Officials said their jurisdiction spread from Igatpuri in Nashik district till Nandurbar district as well as the   till Sinnar.
 
 Kure said they have a total of nine tabs on the highways. “Our aim is to provide immediate relief to accident victims on the highways, considering that the information on the tab is reached before the police station as passers-by always inform the highway police about an accident they have witnessed. Apart from the helpline number of the highway police – 9833498334, which has been put up across the highways also get calls through which the concerned tabs are instructed about accidents.”
 
 Officials said they were organising various programmes in various villages by the highways to spread awareness about defensive driving. However, the villagers continue to drive with two or three pillion riders on two-wheelers, drive on the wrong side and also indulge in drink and driving which leads to accidents.
 
 Kure said the infrastructure across the division was up to the mark in most of the places and the cause of the accidents in most of the cases was due to mistake of motorists. The officials also added there were sufficient number of personnel at all the nine tabs, who worked in shifts to attend every call of accident or traffic snarl.
 
 The police have its tabs at Ghoti, Pimpalgaon, Malegaon, Dhule, Shirpur, Paldhi, Chalisgaon, Visarwadi and Sinnar. Ghoti tab has reported 4 deaths, Pimpalgaon 12, Malegaon 39, Dhule 54, Shirpur 35, Paldhi 19, Chalisgaon 6, Visarwadi 24 and Sinnar tab has reported 35 deaths due to road accidents.
 
