Chennai: In February, Mumbai, Bengaluru & Chennai touched record high temperatures and the IMD predicts a hotter, drier season.  This has led to customers starting their purchases early. Early trend show that more people are buying air conditioners this year.  Players like Panasonic, Videocon and LG, who usually see peak sales starting March end or April, are spotting spurt in sales in mid-February.  After being hit post demonetisation, which saw sales drop by 25-30%, the air conditioner market is picking up. Even as prices have risen by 2-3% owing to rise in raw material costs consumers have begun making their purchases early. LG India, for instance, recorded a 30% increase in sales in February 2017, compared to sales in the same month last year. Panasonic India saw a 35% growth in sale for the same period. As a result, the companies are expected to record an overall sales growth of 18% in 2017, compared to 2016.  “This year, the industry has witnessed an early onslaught of summers. Compared to previous year, industry sales is expected to rise by 15–18%,” said Mohammed Hussain, business head – air conditioning group, Panasonic India. The company sees 35-40% of the sales coming from North India. LG and Videocon see sales coming in from west and south, some of which started in January. The companies see increased sale from Gujarat, Bengaluru and Chennai, Vijayawada and Hyderabad, where traditionally, purchases begin from April, players add.  “Besides consumer demand peaking due to early summer, we are also seeing a demand from the banking department which is setting up more ATMs and branches,” said Sanjeev Bakshi, COO, AC Division, Videocon.  Companies find more uptick for the inverter A/C segment, even with the models costing more than the star-rated counterparts.  LG India, which has moved completely to manufacture and sell inverter air conditioners, has slashed prices to propel the sale further.  “Earlier the price gap between normal and inverter AC was 25% to 30%. Due to local production the price gap has been reduced to about 12% to 15%, bringing the energy efficiency inverter technology within the reach of more and more consumers,” said Vijay Babu, head, AC division, LG India.