VIJAYAWADA: As many as 200 persons, including patients and hospital staff, had a narrow escape from a major fire accident that broke out due to short circuit in   chamber in the MRI scanning room at   in   near Vinayak theatre, here on Tuesday. 

 Alert hospital staff evacuated all the 51 patients from various wards, 15 from ICU and their relatives to nearby Ayush hospital and Ramesh hospital. The fire and smoke were brought under control within 45 minutes. No casualties were reported.
 
 According to hospital staff, a short circuit in the   backup chamber in the MRI section triggered sparks, resulting in the air-conditioner and wiring network in the room catching fire. In no time, smoke filled the first floor and soon spread to the adjoining rooms and the second floor triggering panic among patients and relatives who scrambled for safety.
 
 The fire was later spread to all the air-conditioners, ceiling, wires and equipment, burning them down totally. Due to lack of any escape route, the smoke spread to all the floors of the hospital building. "It was a small fire and we could bring it under control in a few minutes. The hospital has an automatic fire defence mechanism and we brought the situation to normal in just 30 minutes," said an official of Sentini hospital. 
 
 There were more than 200 members inside hospital including patients, attendants and hospital staff. Three fire tenders reached the spot and broke the hospital glasses on all sides to allow the smoke to go out. The fire-fighting equipment had given alarm immediately after smoke emanated in the building. "The sudden smoke and fire alarm panicked us. My father was in the ICU and we were worried about his condition. He was shifted to Ramesh hospital and the doctors said he is stable," said  , son of a patient.
 
 According to fire services department director general K Satyanarayana, Sentini hospital has all the necessary clearances and permissions from the fire department and the fire alarm installed in the hospital alerted the staff after recognising smoke in the first and second floors. "The only problem in the hospital is that it has only one exit and the evacuation of people proved a tough job," said Satyanarayana.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police N   inspected the hospital and interacted with patients who were shifted to safety after the incident. He said the police and fire officials did not find any negligence in regard to the accident in their preliminary investigation. Further investigation will be conducted to ascertain the cause of the incident.
 
 Health minister   enquired about the incident and had instructed the district officials concerned to submit a report on the incident after conducting a detailed inspection.
 
 
