MANGALURU: The   have started opening rowdy-sheets against persons involved in illegal sand-mining. So far around 80 persons have been listed as rowdy-sheeters.

 “The aim of this exercise is to curb the illegal   across the district. With this action, those who are into legal sand mining are spared from unnecessary trouble caused by these rowdy-sheeters,” Bhushan Gulabrao Borase, superintendent of police, DK, told TOI.
 
 Adding one’s name in the rowdy list will attach a social stigma to that person and public will not accept them in the society. Everyone gets into this business for greed and this initiative will stop such activities.
 
 The highest number of rowdysheets are opened in Bantwal taluk, where illegal sand mining is rampant. Once a rowdy-sheet is opened, the person will be under the police scanner and his movements are constantly monitored. Further, they have to appear before the jurisdictional police, whenever there are elections, rallies or any programmes that may disturb law and order in the area.
 
 This apart, police have intensified their action against the illegal sand extraction across the district. They have invoked provisions under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act where illegal sand extraction and transportation are being considered as theft of natural resources. 
 
 Police have registered 45 cases against illegal sand extraction this year. However, in 2015 only 12 cases were registered and in 2016, 75 cases were registered. Only 2 cases were registered in 2013. “We are planning to register more cases this year and bring sand theft under control.”
 
 Apart from rowdy-sheets and cases, DK police have also written to the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in the district to cancel the permits of vehicles involved in illegal transportation of sand. “A special license is required to transport sand, otherwise all these transport vehicles are eligible to carry only goods. We have communicated this to RTOs and asked them to cancel permits when a vehicle comes for inspection,” he pointed out.
 
