KOLKATA:   (TBM) that had started excavating under the Hooghly on April 15 is running ahead of the schedule. It has already crossed 300 metres and if it sticks to its current pace, Rachna, as the TBM has been named, will reach the   before the   

 The half-way mark under the water of the the east-bound tunnel was crossed earlier this week. The under-river commissioning of the TBM was heralded as a milestone in India’s infrastructure history because the East-West Metro, built by Afcons Transtonnelstroy and implemented by the Kolkata Metro Railway Corporation (KMRC), will be the country’s first under-river railway connectivity.
 
 “It looks like the TBM will reach the other end ahead of time. We are looking at a date in the last week of May. The construction of the ventilation shaft should start in the next one week or so, before the TBM reaches Strand Road,” Afcons project manager Virendra Kaul said. 
 
 The TBM, which builds as it digs, has assembled and created more than 1,000 tunnel rings since it was commissioned at Howrah Maidan.
 
 After Rachna crosses the river, another TBM — Prena — will be commissioned for the under-river journey. The sister machine is currently   below the Howrah station complex to build the parallel west-bound tunnel. It has excavated through the station’s eastern diaphragm wall to reach the DRM building.
 
 According to officials, both the tunnels will be bored within July. The twin tunnels, about 520m long, are crucial to the much-awaited Metro project that promises to solve much of Kolkata’s congestion problem, connecting Sector V with Howrah Maidan across the river. The tunnels under the river are part of the 10.8km underground stretch of the 16.6km East-West Metro route.
 
 The two TBMs couldn’t work simultaneously because of the nature of the soil under the riverbed. The second machine can follow only after the first has progressed ahead. Otherwise, ground movement would be extremely high if the two work simultaneously. Around 250 people are working round the clock to build the tunnel.
 
 
