NEW DELHI:   in Lajpat Nagar, one of Delhi’s most popular shopping destinations, appears clutter-free these days. The place looks   and   in the absence of hundreds of street vendors and roadside stalls, thanks to anti-encroachment drives, jointly carried out by South Delhi Municipal Corporation and police, over the past few weeks. 

 The two agencies have been acting on the orders of the Delhi high court, saying that   must be evicted from the area due to security reasons. “The effect of this is fatal and suicidal as in case of a calamity, no vehicles of emergency services, including ambulances or fire trucks, can reach the spot and relief would be hampered on account of obstruction on the roads and by-lanes,” an HC bench said.
 
 The market, which even on weekdays sees a footfall of more than 50,000, clearly seems emptier now. “The place looks cleaner, and is more breathable. But it has become a bit heavy on the pocket now, as the hawkers always sold the same goods at much cheaper rates,” said Chanchal Rani, a resident of Kalkaji, who has been visiting the market for many years. “Also, the decision seems unfair as hundreds of people, who were working in the market, have been dislocated without compensation.”
 
 On the issue of loss of livelihood, the high court had said, “We are of the opinion that the former must bow to the latter as without life and security, no question of earning a livelihood can arise.”
 
 The vendors’ association claims that the court order will affect the livelihood of 800-900 families. “I’ve been doing business in this market for the past 25 years. Now, we cannot do that anymore. If a policeman catches us, our entire stock is confiscated and it becomes difficult to get it back,” said Subol Mandal, a vendor. “Even the shopkeepers used to earn from the stalls that we put. The smallest would come at rent a Rs 3,000 per month.” 
 
 However, the south corporation played down the numbers. “There were around 250 vendors before the drive was launched. The number has come down to just 10-15 now, said Vishvender, deputy commissioner, central zone,  .
 
 Shopkeepers have welcomed the drives. “The crowded road was an advantage for pickpockets and petty thieves earlier. What is good for the customer, is good for us. Our association welcomes the court’s order,” said Rakesh Narang, secretary of Central Market Traders’ Association.
 
 Police are coordinating with SDMC to remove the clutter. “We have issued instructions to the shop owners about how to keep the roads free from encroachments. The market associations have been asked to ensure that their CCTV cameras function properly,” said Romil Baaniya, DCP, southeast.
 
