HYDERABAD: Blatantly flouting the  's ( )   on all   displaying advertisements on hoardings and unipoles, flexies merrily continue to show up at several areas in the city.
On Tuesday, several flexies were spotted at Dilsukhnagar, Ravindra Bharathi, Himayatnagar and Ameerpet in addition to Old City areas like Malakpet, Chaderghat and Charminar.
 
 The GHMC ban on flexies came in the wake of the havoc unleashed by the heavy rain and hailstorm in the city on May 9 that led to the collapse of four hoardings and damaged vehicles.Fortunately, no casualties were reported as a result of the hoardings coming crashing down.
 
 To skirt the ban on flexies, various political parties and organisations have taken to pasting stickers and pamphlets on walls of dilapidated structures and metro rail pillars, leading to a public nuisance. The number of flexies on private buildings too has shot up after the ban. “Even the hoardings and flexies placed on buildings require the permission of the property owner as well as GHMC. We will take action as soon as we receive a complaint,“ said a top GHMC official.
 
 Expressing concern at the number of hoardings cropping up at every nook and corner of the city, commuters at Himayatnagar, Jubliee Hills and Begumpet urged the authorities to take strict action against organisations or individuals using illegal hoardings to display their wares.
 
 “I had no idea that these hoardings can be so dangerous until they collapsed during the recent hailstorm.They are nothing but death traps for commuters during heavy rains,“ said Rohan Patnayak, who commutes on the Himayatnagar Road on a regular basis.
 
 Terming hoardings in general as a menace, several residents of the Old City said at times flexi banners can be more dangerous than hoardings. “Hoardings need a hailstorm to collapse, but the flexies tied on the roads are damaged by slight rain or wind and are found hanging on the road side risking the lives of commuters,“ said  , a commuter at Chaderghat.
 
 According to experts, the structural stability of hoardings need to tested before being granted permission. “Safety and stability checks should be done on all hoardings in order to avoid casualties and property damage,“ said Prof NV Ramana Rao, rector, Jawaharlal Nehru. Technological University Hyderabad (JNTU-H) and a civil engineering expert.
 
 Though the Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) department did prepare a draft advertising policy a couple of years ago, it has not been finalized yet due to strong lobbying by some advertising agencies.
 
