KOLKATA: Demonetisation is a ‘completely crazy thing’ that defies logic, economics and falls in the realm of a politics of gesture, felt celebrated author  . Speaking at an interactive session at the   on Wednesday, Ghosh lambasted the move, terming it ‘a purification ritual’ that had nothing to do with the financial uplift of the country.

 “It has been called a ‘mahayagna’ or a purification ritual, which says it all. Even though I am not an economist, I think it has got nothing to do with economics. It is a transformative yagna,” said the author of ‘The Hungry Tide’. The session was anchored by scholar and teacher  .
 
 Dwelling on the history of Kolkata, Ghosh went on to explain why the city and its Bengali population has been largely averse to business. “This part of the country has been suspicious of commerce and economics. If you compare this to the prosperity of trade and commerce inMumbai, you will find that business was never controlled by the British there. The latter were repeatedly outwitted by local merchants who continued to hold the reins of trade. In Kolkata, it was the British who ran businesses and were viewed with suspicion. The legacy has continued through generations,” said Ghosh.
 
 Even though Kolkata is perceived to be an intellectual city, it has a rich military past that has been brushed under the carpet, said the author. “It is the middle-class, bureaucratic, educated Kolkata that we take to be the city. Our perception is shaped by illusions of geographical configuration. But Kolkata also has a military past based on an economy of opium. The British launched their army campaigns in Burma, Indonesia, Malayasia and China from the city. But all of this has been veiled. There is a tendency to cloak the military dimensions of power, which proves that imperialism was not fuelled merely by ideas,” said Ghosh.
 
 A period of profound uncertainty has now gripped the entire world, felt Ghosh. Asked by a student to comment on the informative value of research-based novels that he wrote, the   awardee said he was not sure. “We don’t know where we are heading. Social media has thrown open the floodgates of information and a lot of it is misleading. But they are shaping history and ideas.” 
 
 
