THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a state, where setting up of a   plant is a herculean task, capital city can boast of operating one such plant round the clock for the past four years. However, a performance report of ADB-aided Kerala State Urban Development Project shows that only one out of the five envisaged components in the sewage project in the city was completed.

 The project envisaged construction of sewage treatment plant, rehabilitation of existing sewerage system and extension of sewerage systems, which will cost Rs 109.4 crore. However, only Rs 52.12 crore could be utilized under the project.
 
 As per the  , two packages for laying sewerage lines and giving house connections were not completed due to poor performance of the contractor and due to public protests. “Construction of   was completed. But since KWA could not complete the works pertaining to laying sewerage lines, the   could not function in its optimum capacity. Only 40-45 million litres of sewage is being collected per day and transferred through the sewerage line for treatment at STP. The capacity utilization of the plant in 42%,” it said.
 
 The CAG has also noticed that KSUDP could not ensure sewerage network connectivity to estimated population of 69,289 in the city.
 
 On the execution of STP, the CAG has slammed state-level empowerment committee’s (EC) decision to relax liquidated damages (LD) which were imposed on the contractor over delay in execution of the work. The work was awarded to   in March 2009 with a deadline of 18 months. When contractor failed to complete work on time, EC gave an extension till March 2011 by imposing LD. It was informed that imposition of LD will be reviewed if project is completed during the extended time. When contractor could not achieve that, LD amounting to Rs 1.62 crore was recovered. Later, the deadline was extended five times before contractor finally started trial run by June 2013. In February 2015, the EC accorded sanction to waive the imposition of LD, based on which Rs 1.62 crore collected from contractor was released.
 
 However, CAG noted that decision of EC to waive imposition of LD was irregular as the delay was occurred due to lapse from the part of contractor. EC decided to waive LD citing that it might affect co-operation with contractor, who was responsible for maintenance for five years. “Since the original agreement required the contractor to ensure operation and maintenance service for five years, he was bound to adhere to the terms of agreement and perform all works related to the O&M of the STP,” CAG noted.
 
 The CAG report also pointed that though Rs 11.01 crore was spent on cleaning of   canal and Thampanoor areas, water logging still persist at Thampanoor.
 
