SURAT: A group of political leaders, textile traders and their supporters were booked for rioting at the Salabatpura police station after a trader, who was collecting signatures of all those who wanted to open their shops, was thrashed in the Millennium Market on Thursday. 

 Police booked  , a  , Attar Singh, textile trader and Anwar Hatela, Mehendra Jain Balotara, Pawan Shankar Agarwal, Shailesh Jain and 50 others who are in favour of continuing the strike in textile market . The accused were booked following complaint of  , 40, who was allegtedly beaten. They were booked for unlawful assembly, rioting and physical  .
 
 In his complaint, Borana said he along with 10 other traders were registering names of those traders who wanted to open the shops amidst the ongoing strike call given as part of the agitation against GST. The accused arrived at the spot and forced Borana to leave the spot, police said.
 
 Borana alleged that he was threatened of dire consequences if he did not leave. When he refused to give in to their demands, he was allegedly thrashed and his T-Shirt was torn. They allegedly threatened to kill him if he continued the attempts to open shops. Terrified Borana and other traders left the market and went to the police station to lodge a complaint.
 
 “We have registered an offence of rioting against some people who thrashed a businessman. The complainant was taking signature of some traders who wanted to open shop at Millennium Market when he was attacked,” said  , city police commissioner.
 
 “We want to make it clear to the striking traders that they should show restrain their protest and follow the law. Police will take necessary action as per law if attempts are made to disturb law and order. We are giving permissions for peaceful protests,” added Sharma.
 
 A group of traders made representation to the city police commissioner and demanded police protection. Police has assured them required protection for those traders who want to start their shops.
 
