 Diana Puczkowska and her boyfriend Piotr Proszowski from Poland are on a hitchhiking trip through India. Ask them to name some of the places they have travelled through so far in the country, and they say, “It is hard for us to pronounce them!” However, the two go effusive while describing their journey, the conversations they had with strangers and more. “We have never felt more alive,” they say in unison.

 It all started after Diana, an economics student, and Piotr, an engineering student, read the book Shantaram by Gregory David Roberts, set in the underbelly of contemporary Mumbai. The couple, who have been travelling together for the past six years, soon set their sights on India. “We often hitchhike through Europe. Before packing our bags, we read up as much as we can about the country we are travelling to. We were sure that India, with its mélange of cultures, religions and languages will have a lot to offer,"
 says Diana.
  
  
 The couple flew down to Mumbai on September 2 and set off on their hitchhiking journey. Through a popular app, they found hosts in different parts of India. As of now, they have covered Hampi, Bengaluru, Kasaragod, Payyanur, Kozhikode, Kochi and Munnar.
 
 “Everything is fun and an adventure — eating with our hands, walking through crowded streets, eating spicy meals and taking in the awe-inspiring scenery around,” she says.
 
 “Every day we get to talk to new people here. We have been receiving positive vibes from them in India, who always nod at us with a welcoming smile. We are in love with this country.”
 
  
  
 
 At Munnar, however, Diana and Piotr encountered more adventure than they opted for. They decided to stay a night in the middle of the forest, in a tent. “We wanted to be close to nature. So we went for trekking and put up a tent on top of a hill, amidst the wilderness. We got to see some spectacular views from the tent. But later we realised that the idea was a bit stupid as it rained heavily that night. We got drenched but we enjoyed the rain," she says.
 
  
  
 
 In India, they say, it is not difficult to get a lift. Their most memorable moment was when they met a husband and wife on their way to Kozhikode, who not only offered them a lift but also took them for a coffee. "They were very warm and introduced us to this lip smacking dish called pazhampori. We also had a lot of discussions about the rich heritage of India," Diana recalls. However, not everyone was as hospitable. They had to listen to a lot of free advice as well. "Some of those who refused to give us a lift, told us that hitchhiking is dangerous." But the couple never faced any such issues on their weeks-long trip. "We have never had any problems. We love people and we don't worry about dangers. We stay positive and have been lucky to get helpful people so far.” 
 
 
