CHENNAI: Working with about 50% of   for much of 2016, the   ensured there was no big jump in   at the end of the year. 

 It was possible because the 75-judge court made sure disposal of cases kept pace with the huge filings. The year began with a pendency of 2,84,428 cases and ended with a pendency of 2,97,615 cases, an addition of 13,000 dockets, or an increase of only about 9%. To maintain and improve the tempo, the court, with a record 55 judges now, needs to work out a case management strategy and use its resources smartly, say jurists.
 
 On Thursday, the electronic display board on the court campus showed more than a dozen courts declaring 'no sitting' and more than half a dozen judges away. By 3.15pm, only 13 benches were in operation. "A good 90 minutes more remain for the day. May be the judges have chamber hearings or dictating orders or reading case documents," an advocate said.
 
 There are four writ admission benches tasked with final disposal of long-pending cases, but no old case has been listed for hearing, jurists point out, adding, "It would result in further accumulation of cases, besides wasting court's time." 
 
 Blaming litigants and advocates, a source said though a sizeable number of old second appeals on civil side were listed for hearing, except in one case, no advocate was willing to conduct cases. Justice K Chandru, former judge, managed to clear 96,000 cases in seven years by categorizing them and planning his schedule. Now, the criminal appeal bench headed by Justice S Nagamuthu has achieved nil-pendency. It is hearing 2016-17 cases, while other courts in the country grapple with cases of 1990 vintage.
 
 On the civil side,   (TOS), money suits, mortgage and partition suit could be disposed of in scores, if managed well, a senior lawyer said, adding, "Complicated cases like declaratory suits alone could be listed in small numbers."
 
 Any case on compensation should not be pending for more than six months, said a jurist. "Land acquisition, motor vehicle accidents and matrimonial disputes/appeals deserve disposals in double-quick time." Hosur SIPCOT land acquisition batch of 1994-95 is still pending, he rued, adding matrimonial appeals of 2008 are being heard now.
 
 
