PUNE: It is common knowledge that water boils and turns into vapour at 100 degrees Celsius. But if we are asked why water spilled on floor turns into vapour even at room temperature of 25 degrees Celsius, most of us, including those preparing for IIT-JEE, will be stumped for an answer.

 This prompted two teachers, who train   aspirants, to impart knowledge beyond textbook definition of fundamentals of science.They have launched a platform called “Being Jigyaasu“, which aims to teach students as well as adults about basic scientific concepts, free of cost.
 
 Both   and Prakhar Jain are 27-year-olds whose love for teaching made them leave lucrative multinational   and return to tea ching.
 
 Agarwal, after passing out of BITS Pilani, was offered a position at  . “Instead I chose to work for Datri, an NGO that works for cancer patients. After working for them, I came back to Pune and started teaching IIT aspirants.“
 
 Prakhar Jain, who completed his engineering from NIT Warangal, was placed at a multinational firm where he worked for two and a half years. “I had some financial obligations so I worked for over two years. But I always loved teaching and came back to Pune to do just that,“ said Jain.
 
 Interestingly , both Prakhar and   studied together at the same coaching institute at Plus I and II levels.“We both met again as teachers at the coaching institute and instantly became friends. We would have long conversations about science and felt that science and mathematics needed to be explained better in schools so that students understand them.Their curiosity should be piqued and they should be able to ask questions and challenge concepts,“ said Prakhar.
 
 After many such conversations, they decided to launch a platform called Being Jigyaasu, which also has a Facebook page. Both of them have lined up events this month end and next month for students as well as others who care to come and listen to them making science and mathematics fun.
 
 “We have the entire content ready and we are adding more. The idea is that there are enough books available on science but most of them are very technical and don't go beyond. We want people to know the story behind inventions and concepts, question them, seek answers and understand day-to-day science so that technical terms don't just remain definitions that we learn as a part of our syllabus.“
 
