AMBALA: From camera-equipped drones keeping aerial vigil, to paramilitary forces controlling protestors on the ground, the Haryana police have fortified the state borders adjoining Punjab to keep lawlessness under check during the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) protest on Monday. The opposition party has announced a complete blockade of vehicles from Punjab into the state on July 10 over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal row.

 INLD has directed its workers to block strategic entry points from Punjab into Haryana, including the Sadopur border on Ambala Chandigarh National Highway and the Shambu border on the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway on July 10.
 
 The   ADGP, IG R C Mishra, along with Ambala SP   reviewed the security arrangements and issued instructions to the on-duty police personnel about controlling the mob, if needed. The police would be taking a closer view of the protest through aerial surveillance as well in a bid to minimize chances of any lawlessness.
 
 The police have not only asked the commuters avoid travel during the protest hours of 9 am to 3 pm but have also diverted the routes for those travelling.
 
 Mishra had inspected the security and police arrangements on the Sadopur border on Ambala Chandigarh National Highway and had reviewed the cameras of the Devi Nagar Toll Plaza on the Shambu border on Delhi-Amritsar National Highway as well. He said, “We have deployed two companies of Ambala Police at each border. They will be supervised by the DSPs.”
 
 “One company each of paramilitary forces has been deployed on both the borders as well. We have been provided with one women battalion to be deployed at both the borders,” he said.
 
 “One company each of Haryana Police Academy has also been positioned on both the borders. On the whole, we have deployed four companies each at both the borders and have provided them with water cannons, ambulances, fire brigades, cranes as well as other required pieces of equipment,” Mishra added.
 
 Mishra said their main aim was to ensure peace and convenience to the common people, adding that further monitoring would be done through cameras as well.
 
 Alternative Routes set by the police administration:
 
 The route for travellers’ commuting from Delhi to Punjab has been diverted through   (from Village Mohra to village Jansui to village Nyola and then would enter Punjab).
 
 Ambala and UP would be diverted to Ambala City via Jandli brige (from City to   to Matherhi and then to Nyola)
 
 For commuters going to Chandigarh, the route has been diverted from Naraingarh road near Baldev Nagar flyover to Panchkula.
 
 The vehicles from Shambu border would be diverted from   road.
 
 People commuting from Punjab would be diverted from Lalru via Handesra to Ambala City.
 
