PANAJI: The uncertainity in Congress over alliances for the Goa assembly elections seems to be over with party vice-president   giving ‘in-principle’ nod to the state unit to forge tie-ups with other parties.
 
  Congress sources told TOI on Tuesday that a final decision on the proposed alliance with Goa Forward Party mentored by Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, United Goans promoted by St Cruz MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate and NCP will be taken in a day or two by the party’s central election committee headed by Sonia Gandhi.
  
  Sources said a three-member committee of the CEC has been appointed for the purpose of finalising the modalities and seat-sharing arrangement. Sardesai, Monserrate and state president of NCP Jose Philip D’Souza have been invited for discussion with the three-member panel on Wednesday.
  
  As for a tie up with NCP, its supremo Sharad Pawar met some Congress leaders on Tuesday pushing for two seats. Though there is no word from NCP, these appear to be Vasco and Benaulim, where its nominees are Jose Philip D’Souza and former chief minister Churchill Alemao.
  
  The Congress screening committee which met on Tuesday in New Delhi, approved the proposal for the party to go in alliance with the GF and UG subject to agreement over seat-sharing.
  
  Sources said Sardesai wants Jayesh Salgaokar in Saligao and Vinod Palyekar in Siolim as Congress is weak in both the constituencies.
  
  Monserrate wants Congress to give tickets to his candidates–Tony Fernandes in St Cruz, Francis Silveira in St Andre and Ramakant Borkar (Cortalim). Sources said the screening committee had some reservations about the three. In St Cruz, one group is in favour of nominating Rudolf Fernandes, son of former MLA Victoria Fernandes.
  
  It was a hectic day for the Congress leaders in Delhi as several groups were at work lobbying for alliance and even for individual candidates. Opposition leader Pratapsing Rane, president of Goa Pradesh Congress committee Luizinho Faleiro and former chief minister Digambar Kamat were among those deliberating with AICC leaders including general secretary Digvijaya Singh, secretaries A Chella Kumar, Girish Chodankar and members of the screening committee.
  
  Faleiro has been strongly opposed to any kind of alliance for the ensuing polls. The anti-alliance group’s contention has been that there is no guarantee that the alliances would stay with the Congress in the post-poll scenario.
  
  On the other hand, Kamat has been a protagonist of having alliance to defeat the BJP. Surprisingly, his stand was supported by the opposition leader and also by the young brigade including Vishwajit Rane and Aleixio Reginaldo Lourenco.
  
  Meanwhile, the screening committee over 22 candidates including the name of five sitting MLAs. Names of Quepem MLA Chandrakant Kavlekar’s wife Savitri has been cleared for Sanguem and so also Sankalp Amonkar for Mormugao.
  
  The first list of Congress is likely to be announced on Wednesday, which is the first day of filing of nominations for the ensuing polls.
