NAGPUR: The state government has approved extra floor space index ( ) for redevelopment of mills chawls and dilapidated buildings. The decision will pave the way for redevelopment of 100-year-old Model Mill Chawl and encourage people residing in dilapidated structures to redevelop their homes.

 The state’s urban development department has made amendments in the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act only for the city. The FSI and conditions for mills chawls and dilapidated buildings are different.
 
 Planned 10 years ago, the National Textile Corporation’s (NTC) redevelopment project of Model Mill Chawl on PPP model can now be executed due to the latest amendment. The NTC had appointed Mumbai-based P & P Associates to redevelop 3.16 acres land of Model Mill Chawl situated at   in 2007. The plan was to demolish 100-year-old structures and construct residential flat schemes and commercial complex. Total 416 chawl residents were supposed to get flat free of cost, with the remaining to be sold by the operator to recover the entire project’s cost.
 
 Former mayor Archana Dehankar told TOI that the operator had submitted building plan with   (NMC) town planning department over two years ago, but it was not approved. “The operator had said the project would not be viable without 2.5 FSI. The project can now come up if the government approves 2.5 FSI,” she said.
 
 President of Model   said it will be a big relief for chawl residents since they have been living in very bad conditions. “There were 13 structures of which four have collapsed. None of us are getting proper civic services. All have given consent for redevelopment but nothing happened in last 10 years,” he said.
 
 Earlier, the chawl residents were supposed to get 225 sq ft flat, which has now increased to 300 sq ft. They can also get flats up to 753 sq ft if they have the same area as currently, that too free of cost.
 
 Probably, extra FSI norm has been introduced for the first time for dilapidated residential structures other than mills chawls. NMC and owners of cooperative housing societies can avail the extra FSI in case flat carpet area is 1,076 sq ft (100 sq m) or below. Condition is that the building should be over 30 years old and declared as dangerous structure. The buildings that have collapsed or have been abandoned, fire incidents are not eligible in the scheme. FSI up to 3 is permitted, which is a very big decision.
 
 To declare a building as dangerous, the government has constituted a committee comprising municipal commissioner, superintending engineer of state PWD, joint director of state town planning department, NMC chief fire officer and head of department structural engineering, Government Engineering College.
 
 
