PATNA:   principal Dr S N Sinha, who is facing arrest for allegedly assaulting and   on November 16 last year, has moved a  , seeking anticipatory bail.
 
  Dr Sinha filed the anticipatory bail in the special court (SC/ST) of judge   on February 10, the day IG-CID (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav ordered his arrest after supervising the case and finding the accusation against him true.
  
  “It’s surprising that Dr Sinha filed his bail petition even before -- or at least on the day -- the IG (weaker section) ordered his arrest on February 10 evening. Till then, the investigation and supervision of Patna Police officers had almost given a clean chit to Dr Sinha and, as such, he had no reason to anticipate his arrest,” a senior police officer said, suspecting that the IG’s findings might have reached the accused “before time”.
  
  The IG’s order, made public at a press conference a day later on February 11, ironically, directed the Patna district police to “ensure that effective measures (are taken) for apprehending the accused… and he is arrested without any delay”.
  
  Dr Sinha’s bail petition is likely to come up for hearing in the special court (SC/ST) on February 13. The victim dalit medico, Dr  , said his counsel would oppose the bail petition.
  
  While the accused was extra prompt to move a court for anticipatory bail, the state police department is so laid back that the IG’s order could not be communicated to the Patna SSP even till Sunday evening even in the age of internet.
  
  Asked about police’s efforts, if any, to nab the accused, SSP Manu Maharaaj told TOI on Sunday evening, “I am yet to get a copy of the order.”
  
  In any case, the SSP said, it was DIG Shalin who was supervising the case.
  
  The IG’s order, a copy of which is in possession of this reporter, is marked to, among others, City SP (central) Chandan Kushwaha and Patna SSP Maharaaj for information and needful action and Patna zone IG   for information.
  
  Meanwhile, Dr Sinha is learned to have gone on three-day leave since Thursday. As per rule, he in his leave application to the state principal secretary (health) on February 8 nominated Dr A K Verma, head of the PMCH’s preventive medicine department, to officiate as principal in his absence.
  
  Asked if he would cease to officiate as the medical college’s head from Monday, Dr Verma told this newspaper, “I cannot -- till the time the principal resumes.”
  
  Meanwhile, the state health department, which had ordered a probe soon after the brawl between the principal and the PG student on the PMCH premises and sought the probe report within a week, is yet to initiate any action. Department’s spokesperson-cum-deputy secretary Anil Kumar said on Sunday evening the department was yet to take a call on the matter.
