The nine nights of razzmatazz and garba jazz are upon us. Fashionistas across the state of Gujarat are all set to put their prettiest foot forward in ethnic chic. As garba grounds come alive with colourful swirls of flowing and flirty gear,  

 Rajiv Bhatt, whose label trends from Rajkot to Mumbai, says, “Earthen colours are in this season and women prefer a dhoti-kurta look as opposed to heavily predictable embroidered stuff, which was the case last year. Indo-western cropped tops and skirts is what youngsters are opting for.”
 
 While dupattas may not be an option for most this year, blouses too have gone beyond their clichéd design of bare arms and barer backs .The snug hug lending ‘braouses’ (a compact baby vest-like choli that acts as the stylish shoulder boulder holder) from last year has been replaced with a more modern avatar. ” Adapted from the ongoing global cold shoulder trend, the focus this year is on sleeves. Hence, be it cold shoulder or off shoulder, sleeves are hot this season,” says Aparna Patel of Ahmedabad, whose label revives hand embroidered Kutchi artwork .
 
 From sanskarnagari Vadodara — known for its subtle elegance and charming grace both in dressing and grooving — designer Tejal Patel said, “Embracing tradition with gypsy inspired opulence is the modern woman’s choice for chaniya cholis this year. Combining artsy, bohemian and even art decorated inspired prints, unconventional motifs are adding the glam factor to comfy cotton.”
 
 Meanwhile in Surat, girls will be gyrating to the newly invented ‘Salsa-Dodhiyu’ steps in tasselled affairs. Stylist Ajita Italiya, who sets trends with her alternate dressing and designs, says, “Tassels are on the chaniya’s swirl circuit and have also found their way to frill up choli sleeves and scarf ends. They give a three-dimensional effect to the garment while adding colour and do not weigh the fabric down like embroidery does. ‘Resham’ (resham) tassels and bright coloured pom poms have also found their way in jewellery like earrings, bracelets and neck pieces with minimal metal detail. They give a gossamer like grace and tassels are dressy yet hassle-free, providing revellers relief from heavy metal jewellery, which often tends to cause allergic reactions.”
 
 
