CHENNAI: A team of police and revenue officials conducted inquiries with more than 120 AIADMK   
  near   on Saturday. 

 The team led by Mahaballipuram deputy superintendents of police Edward, Kancheepuram additional deputy superintendents of police Tamilselvan, Cheyyar tahsildar Ramachandran and Chengalpet police split into four groups and conducted independent inquiries with each and every MLA staying in the resort since Wednesday night.
 
 The inquiries that began at 6.30am concluded at 11.30am. Tamilselvan later told reporters that they conducted independent inquiries with all   following the high court direction. He said the MLAs were questioned whether they were confined in the resort and tortured or they voluntarily came here to stay together. He said the police and revenue teams obtained written statement from them.
 
 Tamilselvan said the teams would submit the individual written statements of all 129 MLAs staying in the resort to the court on Monday.
 
 Later, two MLAs – Kalasapakkam V   and Cheyyar K Mohan - came forward to meet the journalists.
 
 The Kalasapakkam MLA said they were not threatened or forced to stay in the resort. “We came voluntarily to stay together,” he said. When questioned why they preferred not to stay in MLA Hostel, he said they faced threat from chief minister O Panneerselvam’s camp. “We preferred to stay in the resort here for our safety. We face   threats,” he said.
 
 He claimed that   was never loyal to the party. “OPS is a betrayer and even his son was stripped off party posts,” he said. “We have not been kidnapped. It is Panneerselvam has been kidnapped by the DMK. Chinnamma will form the government as soon as the Governor invites her,” the MLA said.
 
 When asked about the two AIADMK MPs – P R Sundaram (Namakkal constituency) and Ashok Kumar (Krishnagiri) – leaving the Sasikala camp and joining Panneerselvam camp, he said Sundaram is a loyalist of Natham Viswanathan, who was stripped of party posts last year, and Ashok Kumar is a close aide of former Aravakurichi DMK MLA K C Palanisamy.
 
 Cheyyar MLA Mohan declared that no one other than Chinnamma was qualified to lead the party and governance. “She has been devoted to Amma for 33 years. She will lead the party and govern with the same devotion,” the MLA said.
 
 The legislators have been staying in the resort since Wednesday evening after attending a meeting convened by party general secretary V K Sasikala, who was elected as legislature party to be the chief minister of Tamil Nadu. The MLAs were taken to the resort in luxury buses, a day after Panneerselvam alleged that Sasikala had forced him to resign.
 
 Panneerselvam, who met the Governor on Thursday evening, raised the issue forceful confinement of the MLAs. On Friday, the Madras high court observed that it was a serious issue if MLAs are confined. Two petitions have been filed in the court to trace two AIADMK legislators.
 
