CHANDIGARH: The city was immersed in  . Decorations lit up marketplaces, a plethora of clayware was on sale on street pavements, and the numerous Dussehra committees across the city not only used the “latest way” to start fireworks, but took care of visitors’ comfort and safety.

 The Dussehra committee of Sector 27 Ramleela Ground had arranged seating for audience at a safe distance from the effigies by securing the area with wooden fencing. They also prohibited people from going close to the effigies. “We have to ensure that people stay safe. There have been cases of people getting injured due to poor safety arrangements,” said Dharampal Bansal, the president of Sector 27 committee.
 
 UT deputy commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi was the chief guest at the event, where remote controls were used for igniting fireworks. The DC hit the button for lighting the effigies. More than 1,500 people visited the ground.
 
 At the same time, Sri Sanatan Dharm Dussehra Committee celebrated with the tallest Ravana effigy, 83 feet in height, in the city. Kumbhkaran and Meghnath stood at 70 feet each. The committee had also arranged for three-tier seating for the 4,000-6,000 people expected to attend the event. The committee, too, had a remote-controlled, self-destructing Ravana, which first went up in flames in the naval, followed by the eyes and the mouth. The committee had rented a small airplane from Pinjore Aviation Club to shower petals on the audience along with small paper strips reading, “Naari ka sammaan,   (women’s respect is nation’s respect)”.
 
 The committee also had a small 'Lanka' structure that was torched to observe ‘Lanka Dehan’. Along with regular police force manning roads, private security arrangements had also been made.
 
 UT administrator V P Singh Badnore was the chief guest at the Sector 17   celebrations. Here, effigies were torched in the traditional fashion, with a bow and an arrow, as artistes enacted the final scenes of the Ramayana. There was live commentary too at the venue.
 
 In Sector 34, mayor Asha Jaswal was the chief guest. The effigies were rather scary-looking at this venue, with more elaborate features. An estimated 3,000 people poured in to witness the celebrations.
 
 To ensure law and order, there was heavy police deployment at all venues. More than sixty-two firemen, drivers and operators were on ground with a fire tender deployed at every location. Chandigarh SSP (traffic) Shashank Anand said they had identified “35 critical locations”, including intersections on Udyan Path, Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, where traffic was a problem during festivals. “But our force is manning all places really well to ensure smooth flow of traffic. We roped in 10 more constables from Police Lines to manage traffic better,” he said.
 
