THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Shot without a script and on the run, as it were, in 20 days, up-and-coming director  's   ‘Sexy Durga’ won the prestigious   at the   (IFFR) on Saturday, the first Indian movie to ever do so. 

 “Sexy Durga is an extremely sophisticated film that offers many layers to the spectator. Acting, cinematography and direction are superb. I am sure the film will travel the world and wish it gets Kerala and all-India distribution and exposure,” Rada Sesic, program advisor of IFFR told TOI over phone from Rotterdam.
 
 The movie is about two lovers – a north Indian girl and Malayali Muslim boy – hitchhiking in a minivan, fleeing some unknown pursuers only to discover that that the two men in the van who gave them the ride might have monstrous intentions themselves. There is very little drama but the mood inside the van resembles a nightmare even as the movie builds up inexorably towards rape. The larger aim of the movie, as the title suggests, is to expose how Indian men, devout Durga worshippers by day, reveal their demonic character by night. 
 
 Reacting to the award, Sanal posted in Facebook, “This is for Team  . This is for Malayalam independent cinema”. Sanal’s previous film Ozhivudivasathe Kali (An Off-day Game) was also shot without a script and it won the Kerala state award for the best film in 2015.
 
 “It's a truly important achievement for Indian cinema. Rotterdam fest has been the place for promoting emerging talents in film-making. Films shown at Rotterdam find natural acceptance in other global film festivals, said national award-winning director Shaji N Karun.
 
 Feted director Anurag Kashyap had hailed Sexy Durga as a “super edgy thriller”, and tweeted that he was glued to the edge of his seat all through the movie. However, not all reviews have been fawning. Jay Weissberg, film critic of Variety magazine, didn’t mince words: “While it’s true the film foregrounds the unrelenting misogynistic threat of physical abuse, it can also be argued that Sasidharan indulges in torture porn to the benefit of no one, least of all women’s rights. Designed as an impressionistic mood piece combining nonfiction bookends with a minimalist fictional narrative, this uber-art-house slog will see scattered fest play, but little else”.
 
