Times News Network 

 Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress-dominated state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) that backed the clinical establishment bill which was opposed by its parent body, has voiced concerns over patient overreach and threats to doctors and urged the state to act against the alleged misuse of the bill. 
 
 There have been several instances of doctors being threatened with administrative and police action since the bill was introduced a week ago. Fearing repercussion, doctors are already beginning to refuse patients whose conditions are very serious lest they be drawn into a medical negligence case in the event of a death. 
 
 In a prominent private hospital, a patient’s kin openly threatened a senior practitioner that he could be summoned to Nabanna for a dressing down if he refused to write down the line of treatment he proposed to undertake. “Now, I have a security guard walk alongside me when I cross the lobby because one does not know how far these people can go,” the doctor said.
 
 In another instance, a woman visited a paediatrician with a local political leader in tow to force the doctor to take the case. The doctor, however, refused as the child was very ill and chances of survival was 50:50. “I would perhaps have taken the case earlier and tried my best but with this patient flaunting her political connections, I know it will spell trouble if the child does not survive,” the physician said.
 
 IMA state secretary Shantanu Sen, who has been inundated with these cases and more, acknowledged there was a problem at hand. “We support the bill but there are vested interests in pockets that are misinterpreting the provisions of the bill to threaten nursing home doctors and private practitioners. These elements are out to sabotage the bill,” said Sen. He has urged the state to foil these efforts by acting tough against trouble-mongers. 
 
 “The prevailing situation has put doctors in the line of fire. They are scared and can’t be blamed if they treat patients defensively. We need to deliberate on the bill extensively and amend some of the provisions, particularly those that are very harsh on doctors,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar.
 
 The state unit of IMA, a body of nearly 16,000 registered medical practitioners with 171 units state-wide, had in an extended general body meeting on March 5 accepted a resolution to support the bill, contrary to the stand taken by the parent body in Delhi. The state unit argued that the bill was not against doctors and aimed to curb rampant extortion and non-transparency in the billing process. It also stated that the bill had enough safeguards for doctors and punitive measures were only directed against erring private healthcare institutions. 
 
 But not everyone in the state unit agrees with the bill’s provisions. Some disgruntled members have openly spoken against the bill and even threatened to move court. With IMA headquarters openly voicing its opposition to the bill, senior office-bearers of the state chapter air-dashed to New Delhi on Sunday to allay concerns. Sen joined the efforts through a 45-minute conference call. But sources said the parent body was set to write to CM Mamata Banerjee and Governor Keshri Nath Tripathy, urging them to protect the doctors interests. It is also likely to send a delegation to Kolkata soon to engage with the CM directly on the issue. 
 
 Their contention is butressed by the multiple instances of threats that doctors have received in the past week. In one case, a patient’s wife confronted a surgeon minutes before he was to walk in to conduct a surgery and told him that she was not convinced with his decision to operate on her husband. “The doctor takes a decision that he feels is best for the patient. But if he were to be intimidated at every step, it will be difficult to continue the practice,” argued a senior cardiologist.
 
 GRAPH
 
 Billed Rs 2.17 lakh, a patient’s family paid Rs 1.17 lakh to a south Kolkata hospital at the time of discharge. When the hospital asked for the remaining amount, they said that was all they could pay and will call the police if the hospital insisted on the full amount.
 
 A senior practtioner was threatened by a patient’s kin at a hospital lobby last week. He was asked to explain his treatment method in writing. Officials from Nabanna would be summoned if he refused, the doctor was told. 
 
 A surgeon was confronted by a cardiac patient’s wife minutes before he was to be operated upon. The lady said he was not happy with the surgeon’s reasons for doing the surgery.
 
 A south Kolkata padetrician . a patient came with a local party leader. The padeatrician refused to take the case because the ailment was severe and chances of survival was 50:50. The pedeatrician is attached to several private hospitals
 
 A government hospital doctor was threatened by the patient’s family members on why he had not explained the line of treatment to them properly. Such was the threat that the doctor is now moving around in teh hospital with a body guard.
 
 
