BENGALURU: So, just imagine, you're playing  . But it's not on grass or artificial turf, but on inflated rubber, made lick with soapy water. Maintaining your balance is hard enough - forget about controlling a ball as you try to score. But that's the charm of soap football. You slip, you slide, you fall, you play - and you don't get hurt, just wet.

 Soap football's origins are nebulous - maybe it started as one of those glamour shoots where attractive women in thin jerseys got progressively wetter as they played - but what's undeniable is that its gaining a large following - not just in South America, where it originated, but across the Middle East and now in India as well. And it's gender neutral - an ideal, and exhausting, source of fun that doubles as great exercise.
 
 Now, Bengalureans are getting on the soap football game, with the arrival of a soap football arena - all of 3000 sqft - at Ambedkar Nagar. Here, teams of five or seven members gather to play - almost every day of the week.
 Standing inside an inflated play area at the facility, Sandeep Chandrasekharan, one of the founders, says that soap football "is an attempt to introduce the entertaining sport to mainly those who haven't play football. Soap football is a very popular pastime in the Gulf countries where youngsters avidly take part. The sport has gained a lot of popularity in the past few years with a custom grounds coming up in Mumbai and Chennai. Ours is the first in Bengaluru."   has named the facility 'Be-Live It Soap Football'.
 
 The arena went operational in August 2015. It's designed for five or six-a-side teams. The teams compete on a PVC surface laid on nearly 3000 sq ft of sponge. The goalposts are inflated. The boundaries are fenced in with PVC walls and designed in such a way that the player doesn't slip out of the playing area when he or she is playing football on the surface laced with soap water. "Playing football on a soapy surface is entertaining. We gave designed the surface here keeping in mind the safety of the player. However, we have now started providing the boxing headgear and knee patches to players as an additional precautionary step," Chandrasekharan says.
 
 Despite the distance from the city, Be-Live It Soap Football on Sarjapur Road has gradually managed to attract players to slide around in the form of school students, college groups and notably corporate teams. Last March, a 5-a-side Soap Football League was hosted in the arena and 14 teams, mainly corporates, took part in the tie.
 
 "I have been a regular playing at the soap football arena and when the league was announced, we gathered a 10-member team at Amazon. We competed hard but sadly we were knocked out of the first round. It was our first attempt and we keen on getting back for the next tournament and are determined to win," says Anurag Pradeep, skipper of Cluster of Titans, a team from e-tailing giant Amazon's Bengaluru's office.
 
 According to Salion Edward, organiser of the event and co-founder of the facility, the tournament last year was a huge hit. It has also given them the impetus to host more competitions in 2017. "We have two more leagues coming up. One is an inter college tie and another a contest for corporates. We are now involved in the publicity process and are raising awareness about soap football," he says.
 
 It's not just colleges and corporates who are getting into soap football in a big way, says Edward. He says his facility is now being frequented by children with their parents hosting birthday parties and get-togethers. The organisers say the facility is packed on weekends as well as seeing regular bookings on weekdays.
 
 With boys and men's teams frequenting the facility, there are a few girls' teams who compete or play soap football for fun. "A friend of mine introduced me to the sport during my college days. Even though I have never played football I tried it out and I'm hooked on to it now. It is a totally different experience and a lot fun to play that one hour in the soapy surface and score goals. One should try it as a break from visiting malls or pub-hopping.," says  , whose just graduated from a city college.
 
 Recommended only for players from the age of five to 40, Be-Live It Soap Football is on Sarjapur Road and is open on all days of the week from 9 a.m to 11 p.m.
 
