Mumbai/Pune/Aurangabad: If the   has it way, the next academic year, HSC and SSC exam centres may be equipped with   to curb cheating. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has ordered an inquiry into the alleged mass-copying incident at Latur and two more cases of malpractice reported from Buldhana and Ahmednagar on day one of HSC exams. 

 The board will also send a fresh proposal to the state government for CCTV cameras at all exam centres. Board chairman Gangadhar Mhamane said there are about 7,000 HSC exam centres across the state and it comes down to who will bear the cost of installing the cameras. “We had sent a proposal in this regard last year, and will be sending a fresh proposal this year too,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, HSC exams were a ‘smooth’ affair in the Mumbai division on Wednesday as no cheating cases were reported; 19 cases were reported in the rest of Maharashtra. 
 
 Over 1.24 lakh students took the Hindi paper in the Mumbai division, which covers Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, during the morning session. “Language papers are usually lengthy, but I could complete today’s paper on time,” said Sapna Duble, a Science student from Bhavan’s College, Andheri. In the evening session, about 446 students took the German exam and 215 candidates appeared for the Persian paper.
 
 On Tuesday, when students were giving the first HSC exam for English, a video clip surfaced purportedly showing a few outsiders solving a leaked question paper at an exam centre in Shivani-Kotal village of Nilanga taluka in Latur. It was reported in the local media that mass copying was allegedly taking place at the centre with the help of invigilators and parents. 
 
 When the board got to know of the alleged incident, it removed the exam centre head from his post pending an inquiry. 
 
 A three-member team, led by acting secretary of the Latur division of the state board Ganpat More, visited Shivani-Kotal village to verify the video-clip incident, but could not trace the school purportedly shown in it. “We could not trace the school...and have accordingly submitted a report to the head office. Any action will be based on an official directive from the head office,” More said.
 
 Board chairman Gangadhar Mhamane said, “We expect to get the inquiry report this week. The Latur divisional board officials will take a call on whether or not to reinstate the exam centre head.”
 
 In Buldhana, a WhatsApp image of the English question paper was being circulated minutes after the exam started on Tuesday. In Ahmednagar, it was reported that the same question paper had been found in a photocopy shop. Mhamane said, “We have to first verify whether the WhatsApp image and the paper found at the photocopy shop are copies of the English question paper. We will send a team to inquire into both cases.”
 
 Senior board officials on Wednesday said they have pulled up division-level officials for the alleged paper leak and cheating and instructed them to ensure malpractice-free exams.
 
