AURANGABAD: The   — planning to take out the biggest   (rally) in Mumbai on August 9 — is targeting participation of around 1 lakh community members from Aurangabad district alone.

 Ahead of the proposed protest march at the state capital, the community leaders held a coordination meeting in the city on Sunday during which review of different arrangements was taken.
 
 “We are counting minimum one lakh participation for August 9 rally and the number could increase. Aurangabad has been at the forefront of our agitation since beginning having witness first protest rally in Maharashtra, said  , state coordinator of Maratha Kranti Morcha.
 
 Kale said private transport arrangements have been made ready to reach Mumbai. “Aurangabad has rail connectivity to Mumbai, but it cannot carry the huge amount of participants. Therefore, we have been arranging means of private transportation. Total seven grounds in Mumbai have been identified for vehicle parking purposes,” he said.
 
 “Anticipating rush for reaching Mumbai ahead of the rally,   have also appealed to the community members to reach the state capital in phases beginning August 5. Those who have relatives or friends in Mumbai can reach in advance to avoid crowding of trains and buses and other modes of transportation on August 9,” Kale added.
 
 Leaders of Maratha Kranti Morcha have been also reaching out to their community members from different walks of life to ensure maximum participation for Mumbai rally. “We have identified different sectors from where participation for rally is expected. A special Rath-yatra is being carried out to mobilise masses,” one of the leaders said.
 
 Reservations and amendments to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 have remained some of the key demands of Maratha community, which have had held series of silent marches across different cities in Maharashtra to press for it. The Maratha Kranti Morcha was also found to be vocal in backing a section of farming community agitating for different demands, including loan-waiver.
 
 “The rally will be landmark in the history of Maharashtra and ruling parties will have to take a note of it at any cost,” the leader added. 
 
