HYDERABAD: The central government’s   for midday meals has received poor response in  , with a staggering 80% schools not registering their progress report. 

 The monitoring system was aimed at keeping track of whether meals were being served in all schools and the number of students benefited by it. The system was unveiled in the state in June last year.
 
 As per the SMS-system, registered schools are expected to send details of the   served to a toll free number — 15544. For instance, if 10 students availed the midday meal, teachers have to send an   as MDM 10. 
 
 But statistics reveal that out of the 25,947 schools, only 5,505 schools have participated in the system so far while the rest 20,442 are wary of it. Figures reveal that Karimnagar, Jangaon, Komaram Bheem, Warangal (rural) were among the worst performing districts. Rangareddy, Yadadri and Suryapet districts, on the other hand, performed relatively well.
 
 Considering the poor performance, the commissioner and director of school education department issued a notice to all district education officers last week to ensure that the monitoring system is implemented in its full spirit.
 
 “The government of India is frequently reviewing the data entry in MDM-MIS portal and ARMS (automated reporting and management system), that is, SMS based monitoring system… If there is any deviation in this regard, necessary action will be initiated against the official concerned,” the notice read. 
 
 The notice instructed DEOs to ensure that SMS alerts are sent by headmasters daily and the monthly data up to June 2017 is entered on the official portal. 
 
 The move to fix the loophole comes two months after Ajay Tirkey, joint secretary at the ministry of human resource development issued a letter to the Telangana government. As per the MHRD figures till April 2017, Telangana stood at the bottom of the chart with zero per cent schools implementing the monitoring system. 
 
 Goa, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala,   and Manipur were the other states where the percentage of ARMS implementation was in single digits. In Andhra Pradesh, 58% schools had implemented ARMS. 
 
 Teachers have their own reasons for not reporting the meal status. “Many teachers were negligent as they did not take the SMS-based monitoring system seriously. A few teachers did not know how to send SMS. Others complained of network issues,” said E Raghunandan, general secretary of Telangana Teachers Federation. 
 
 Some also blamed poor guidance by the government. “We have not been trained on how to send SMS and fill entries on the portal,” a government teacher said.
 
