MALAPPURAM: As per the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act (amended in 2006) ­ that established child welfare committees (CWCs) ­ the purpose of the panel in each district was to determine the best interest of the child and find a safe home environment. But, recent incidents of child sexual abuse in which three CWCs are facing serious allegations, have exposed the inefficiency of such agencies.

 After the Kottiyoor case came to light, the social justice department suspended   chairman   and member Betty Jose.
 
 Other members were removed temporarily. The action was taken based on the report of district child protection unit (DCPU) of Wayanad that outlined the CWC's lapses in this case. In another instance, CWC chairman Sharif U was sacked one week ago for his alleged involvement in illegal adoption of a child in 2015.CWC in Palakkad is facing the heat in the Walayar suicide case. It is alleged that the lack of coordination between different child welfare bodies such as Childline, CWC and DCPUs and political interventions are affecting cases.
 
 DCPUs were formed as an umbrella body to monitor and control Childline, JJ board and CWC. It is learnt that the DCPUs are now struggling to control the activities of CWCs in many districts.
 
 JJ Act stipulates that a multidisciplinary team should be appointed as members of CWCs. But, social justice department aren't following the conditions while appointing members. In Malappuram, four of the five CWC members are advocates.
 
 “DCPUs are the bodies which have to control CWCs. But, DCPUs were constituted two years ago long after CWCs were constituted. DCPUs are hounded by practical difficulties.There is confusion among three bodies regarding the nature of duties which delays justice for survivors,“ said   of DCPU Wayanad.
 
 “The lack of monitoring or monthly review of the activities of CWCs are allegedly causing corruption and external interventions in the activities of CWCs. We should resolve the issue by appointing experts as the members of committees instead of appointing nominees of political parties or religious organizations,“ said Anwar Karakkadan, coordinator Childline, Malappuram.
 
 Meanwhile, chairperson of CWC Kozhikode, Sreela Menon said that the allegations against CWC authorities in Palakkad and Wayanad were isolated incidents and that CWC was functioning properly in Kozhikode.
 
