AHMEDABAD:  , 35, shudders while recounting the events of Thursday morning. Solanki, an auto driver, lives on the first floor of a two-storey building in Bhatwado, Golwad in Khadia area as a tenant with three family members. The ground floor was home to six persons. A boundary wall was damaged and as the building’s residents were assessing the cracks at 10.30am, the century-old house collapsed, barely five feet away from them.

 “Twelve persons were saved by a whisker. The building is completely damaged and we have nowhere to go. Neighbours, however, are supporting us,” said Kaushik Padhiyar, who lived on ground floor of the building..
 
 Sujal Panchal, 5, resident of Sheth Harkishandas ni Pol in Mandvi ni Pol, was not so lucky. At about 12.30pm, a portion of a wall fell on the tin roof their home’s kitchen where he was eating, burying him. He suffered severe head and body injuries and was taken to the VS Hospital where he died at 2.55pm. His mother Hiral is a tenant at the property.
 
 On July 24, Raju Thakor, 40, had died and his wife and two children suffered injuries when the ceiling of their home Fatasha ni Pol had collapsed. This monsoon, the central zone of AMC, primarily the walled city areas, reported 40 house and structure collapses, 14 on July 26-27 alone. About 280 properties have been declared dangerous.
 
 Why does the area report such a high number of collapses? When the historic city of Ahmedabad is recognized as a world heritage site by Unesco, old structures are meeting slow deaths. Mayur Dave, the councillor from Khadia, said they have demanded that AMC engineers address the issue. “One major factors is owner-tenant relationships. Most buildings have been let on rent for over half a century and tenants are paying something between Rs 25 and Rs 100 a month. Thus, there is issue with maintenance,” said Dave. The councillor pointed out issues arising from multilpe ownerships. “When one person wants to repair the building others refuse to bear expenes,” said Dave, adding that they are trying to conserve heritage properties with public participation.
 
 The fear of losing space in their possession prevents many occupants from leaving the dilapidated buildings. “We have nowhere to go if we are evacuated from here. New constructions and repairs in the vicinity make the buildings unsafe,” said Sumti Purabiya, a tenant in Mandvi ni Pol.
 
 
