KOLKATA:   on Saturday night while discussing with Bangladesh PM   proposed to share the water of Torsa river, instead of Teesta, as Teesta is dry and Bengal will suffer if   has to be divided. Mamata had put a veto on Teesta water sharing since 2011, when Manmohan Singh was PM and had gone to Dhaka in September 2011, but Mamata refused to accompany Singh for signing the  , for which the pact could not be inked.

 On Saturday she proposed for sharing water of Torsa which has also connectivity with Padma river and said that she had no ill intention of not sharing water with Bangladesh. She proposed that the two countries should set up a commission to ascertain the level of water flowing through Torsa and the quantum of water that can be shared. Thus she finds instead of Teesta Bangladesh can get water for irrigation from Torsa and that is most practical a solution.
 
 Mamata during her meeting with Hasina presented her a Baluchari saree and requested her to visit Kolkata. The Bengal CM also wanted that there should be a Mukti Yodha Bhavan in Kolkata to honour the martyrs who died during the Liberation War of Bangladesh in 1971. She also wanted to jointly organize the Bengali New Year Poila Baisakh every year. It might be mentioned that Bengal observes Poila Baisakh on April 15 mostly, but Bangladesh has fixed April 14 as Poila Baisakh and organizes a major cultural programme at Dhaka's Ramna.
 
 Mamata had also made her mind clear to Narendra Modi that she cannot affect the interest of Bengal while sharing Teesta water, as it is the main lifeline in north Bengal. She stated the farmers will be affected if water is reduced, as already there are a numbers of dams in Teesta.
 
 She said that Bengal and Bangladesh are not only closed tied neighbours, but relatives in the true sense and for which she will try her best so that Bangladesh gets water. 
 
 It might be mentioned that Teesta water sharing is a political agenda in Bangladesh and if Hasina fails to ink the pact before the 2018 October polls, she will suffer heavy criticism in the hands of BNP. Already BNP has criticised her Indo-Bangladesh policy and had wanted that Bangladesh should go for arms deal with China instead of inking defence deal with India.
 
