HYDERABAD: Everybody loves a good biryani and Hyderabadis are right there on the top. A study analysing the   of its users, revealed the city's love for the popular dish even as a snack.

 The survey analysed five lakh users across eight different cities including; Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Delhi & NCR, Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata and collated data based on where it operated. They also tracked the top five cuisines.
 
 Biryani emerged as the most popular non-vegetarian main course. From the diverse food choices that are available to Hyderabadis, biryani remains an alltime favourite. Making it to the top five dishes frequently ordered; particularly in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune and Kolkata, users consistently gravitated towards biryani. According to Abdullah, a student from Bengaluru, “I moved to the city for my studies and use the app to order food when I get really busy.The one thing I can't do without is biryani."
 
 According to the survey, Bawarchi, Café Bahar, Mehfil and Paradise biryani were the highest selling   with Paradise occupying the top slot in Bengaluru and Delhi as well. Hydera bad House also emerged as a key restaurant in Pune. Hyderabad recorded an overwhelming number of responses with orders flowing in even during snack time, between lunch and dinner from 3pm to 7pm.The study also revealed that on an average, customers ordered anywhere between 13 to 15 times a month. Neha Fatima, a regular customer, mentions, “I use apps for the variety they offer within a vicinity, be it a simple snack from a bakery or a full fledged meal from a pro per restaurant“ As India's largest food ordering and delivery platform, it has seen a significant uptake in the number of Hyderabadis using Swiggy. “As the country's largest food-tech company, our vision is to change the way India eats. The last few months have shown that customers are becoming accustomed to ordering food for the experience, than just for convenience“ said Srivats TS, Vice President (Marketing) at  , who carried out the survey.
 
