Jewar: A tractor-load of tomatoes for Rs 20. All vegetables at Re 1 a kg. These are the rates at which   farmers are selling their harvest to middlemen and retailers at the   (weekly farmer’s market) in Jewar. The middlemen truck the produce to faraway mandis, while the small vendors cart their daily buy to local markets. Like the rest of India, here in  , despite a good harvest, there are no takers for the produce.

 Distraught farmers blame the market meltdown on  . There’s a glut, but procurement prices have crashed over the last two months. With cash flow still disrupted, farmers are selling at throw-away rates.
 
 Local vendors on carts and at roadside stalls are selling vegetables at Rs 5-8 per kg. “What we are picking up from farmers is selling very slowly. People are not buying much. Most farmers are selling produce at Rs 1-2 per kg,” said Baleshwar, a middleman. Jewar farmers are selling produce in Palwal in Haryana or Bulandshahr, with few bringing their produce to the wholesale market at the SEZ II, Noida, he added.
 
 Vendor Md Salim said he has bought 50kg of potatoes at Rs 250 from a middleman. He has tomatoes, potatoes, carrots and seasonal fruits on his cart. Over a week, he expected to sell the potatoes at Rs 7/kg and carrots at Rs 10/kg, giving him an average profit of Rs 2/kg of vegetables sold, and an overall profit of Rs 300-500.
 
 Some farmers claimed the crash will continue affecting them for several months, as winter is when they make a clean profit, which helps them tide over the year’s uncertainties. 
 
 “We’re ruined. Some farmers are so frustrated, they’re dumping truckloads of cabbages or tomatoes by the roadside, or selling at rock-bottom prices. Urad and arhar dal growers haven’t even recovered their investment,” said Mahender Singh, vice-president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and a resident of Jewar.
 
 “In 2015, we sold urad dal at Rs 10,000 per quintal. This year, we sold at Rs 4,800. From Rs 9,000 per quintal last year, arhar dal is down to Rs 3,500. Sugarcane growers haven’t received payments for four months. A quintal of rice is going for Rs 2,100. Yesterday, a tractor of tomatoes went for Rs 20. This morning, cabbage went for Rs 10 for 10 kg,” Singh added.
 
 TOI caught Singh and other farmers discussing current affairs in Charauli, a five-minute-drive from Neemka, the model village adopted by BJP MP and Union minister Mahesh Sharma. Charauli is one of the many villages which falls under Jewar’s shelved airport project.
 
 At Mahesh’s house in Charauli, where the farmers had gathered, tons of unpolished rice can be seen rotting. Jewar doesn’t have a rice mill. “We’ve not been able to sell the kharif crop for four months,” said Rakesh Nambardar, former district BJP president.
 
 In desperation, farmers are pinning their hopes on the upcoming assembly polls. “Either we get a good price for the produce, or facilities for food processing and cold storage. Even our money is locked in banks. How are we going to survive?” said BKU’s Singh.
 
