CHANDIGARH: If Board of   (BoF) of the   gives approval, the new formula of revenue sharing of the   (IPR) would be implemented raising the current ratio of share between the inventors and university from 60:40 to 70:30. Besides prescribing the proportion of revenue sharing, the policy also defines the rules for the revenue sharing when there are two or more than two inventors. The revenue sharing formula of the IPR will be tabled in the BoF meeting on August 1. 

 The matter, already approved by the syndicate in its meeting in 2015, was also tabled in the last BoF meeting held on February 13 and since no consensus was reached, it was decided to consider the matter in the next BoF meeting. 
 
 According to the policy, the inventor’s share will continue to be paid irrespective of whether the individual continues as an employee/student/research scholar of the university. The inventor share would be declared annually and disbursement will be made to the inventors, their legal heir, whether or not the inventors are associated with the university at the time of disbursement. 
 
 The policy also states that if there are two inventors, the main investigator/supervisor/team leader will get upto 60% while the co-inventor will get at least 40% of inventor’s share by mutual agreement. If there are more than two inventors, the main investigator/supervisor/team leader will get upto 60% of the inventor’s share and the rest will be distributed among the co-inventors in the proportions on the mutually agreed terms and conditions at the time of IP disclosure or at the time of filing for IP protection. If any inventor is unable to be contacted for one year because of lack of information, his share will be credited to the IP fund. 
 
 The revenue sharing policy of the university, which is a part of the complete IPR policy introduced in 2015, also states that of the university share, 50% will be used for creating a university’s IP fund, which could be further utilized for commercialization and maintenance of IPR or maintaining IPR in another country. This 50% includes 10% to be paid to the university as administrative charges and 40% to the department concerned for the purchase of equipment or material or any academic activity and promotion of industrial partnership. 
 
