HYDERABAD: The reorganisation of districts has slowed down the  's (TSRTC)   from other sources. 

 The corporation which is weighed down by over 2,200 crore losses, has signed an agreement with   Limited (HPCL) to set up 52 retail petrol-cum-diesel retail outlets in its open land in the state excluding Greater Hyderabad. 
 
 RTC is expecting to raise a modest 10 crore revenue per annum from commission through sale of fuel. However, the move is getting delayed as the authorities of the respective new districts are busy in settling down and are taking their own time to identify the land and give NOCs to HPCL to set up petrol/diesel outlets. 
 
 "It will take some time for NOCs for all the 52 bunks to be obtained. We are getting No Objection Certificates from the respective district administrations and so far over 30 NOCs have been obtained. We hope to complete setting up of some petrol bunks and make them operational before June 2017," officials said.
 
 It may be mentioned that as part of raising non-traffic revenue, TSRTC is leasing out the identified open and unused spaces for commercial businesses for setting up 52 retail fuel outlets on a rental basis to   Corporation (HPCL) for a period of 30 years. An MoU has also been signed between TSRTC and HPCL. As per the MoU, the total construction cost for setting up retail fuel outlets will be borne by the HPCL. All the 52 outlets will be operated by TSRTC by outsourcing service providers.
 
 For setting up a petrol bunk, the rules stipulate that the company should have an explosive license and also has to procure a NOC from the district administration. The district collector along with officials concerned will inspect the premises and consult traffic and law order police, revenue authorities among other departments before giving a green signal.
 
 It may be mentioned that chief minister   had conducted a review meeting with the RTC officials in June 2016, and asked them to explore ways and means to raise non-traffic revenues too and put back RTC wheels on profit making path.
 
