AHMEDABAD: Contrary to fears following demonetization that it will take long for the   to regain its footing, the realty sector seems to be recovering fast. Estimates by real estate players and other industry stakeholders suggest demand has gone up across various realty segments including both residential and  , and especially in affordable homes.

 “Demand in residential category is very good. Commercial properties, too, have seen demand picking up. We sold a lot of units after February,” said   of Samved Real Estate.
 
 “Inquiries and bookings had dried up after demonetization. Customers are returning to the market, which has rekindled demand of properties,” said Divyesh Shah, owner, Winsome Realty.
 
 Following demonetization, there were fears that sluggishness would continue for a long period. “However, demand has picked up from February. Usually, demand remains subdued in March as it is the last month of a fiscal. Contrary to this, we got inquiries and bookings in March too,” said Nephal Shah, director, Sangath Infrastructure Pvt Ltd during the two-day Times Property Expo-2017, which kick-started on Saturday. “There is maximum demand for affordable housing. Premium segment has also seen traction,” Shah said.
 
 Over 20 premium developers are displaying their projects spread across residential, commercial and retail segments at the expo. The projects range from 1/2/3/4/5 BHK apartments to villas, bungalows, row houses, exquisite villas, townships and commercial properties, among others. 
 
 Buyers expected reduction in prices. “Soon after demonetization, we hoped that property prices will go down and therefore, we delayed making our investment. However, it seems there is no change and therefore I am looking forward to invest,” said Nilesh Shah, a resident of Vasna. Inquiries and bookings appear to have gone up.  , of Swagat Group, said, “Earlier, people chose to wait for a couple of months in anticipation of reduction in prices. However, now that they have money, they have decided to invest.” “Infrastructure status to affordable housing, government subsidies, as well as launch of affordable housing projects has pushed up the demand. Political stability has also contributed to the improvement in sentiment,” said Dipak Patel, president, GIHED-CREDAI.
 
 
