Nagpur: Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has facilitated alleged outdated swine flu vaccine to resident doctors and staff working at the swine flu ward. As a mark of protest, the resident doctors have purchased the vaccines from a local pharmacy shop on their own and administered themselves. Ideally, GMCH should have voluntarily provided the updated vaccines immediately after opening the ward. Initially, no vaccine were provided. Later, the vaccines of 2009 were provided to them only after a TOI report on April 25. Even during the swine flu outbreak in 2015, no doctor or assisting staff handling the patients were given the vaccines, informed Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) president Dr Dinesh Sharma. The medicine department administers GMCH’s swine flu ward while the Pharmacology department has to keep track with the vaccine stock. Resident doctors on duty at swine flu ward, on April 27, wrote a letter to the Pharmacology department head Dr Vijay Motghare and Medicine Department head Dr VS Shahastrabhojanee, expressing unwillingness to take the old vaccines.  According to the letter written by resident doctors, “The residents of GMCH medicine department are not willing to take the H1N1 vaccine which contains the old strain of the virus. The newer vaccine containing the recent strain is available in the market.” Dr Sharma told TOI, “The doctors haven’t received any reply yet. They have finally purchased the vaccine from a local shop. According to the norms, even the assisting staff including nurses and attendants should also be give vaccines from the college. They are still not vaccinated.” One of the resident doctor said, “GMCH has been telling that the vaccines have not been supplied by government. But if the vaccines are available at any local store, then why can’t GMCH avail it from there? How can they put the doctors and staffers at risk!”  The doctor added, “The vaccines available with the college are for the swine flu strains of 2009. According to the norm, every four year, the vaccine needs to be updated as the virus keeps on mutating.” The swine flu virus, which is usually alive in peak winter, is still able to survive in peak summer this year. Moreover, the available vaccines have expired on Monday, the doctor said. Dr Sharma said, “Basically, the departments keep on passing the blame. The college dean should have designated the responsibility to one person which he has not done it yet.” Despite several attempts, TOI could not connect with GMCH dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade.