THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Diced fruits, cold beverages and yummy ice sticks sold on the streets look tempting when the mercury goes up. They do bring respite from the heat, helping to lower body temperature, but the risk of diarrhoea is real. The severe drought is causing contamination of water bodies adding to the risk.

  and   are the two major reasons for the   during this season.“The summer season poses a huge risk because of food and water contamination, which people are not aware. The end result is the spread of diarrhoea,'' said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer of communicable diseases.
 
 Already, there is a drought like situation in the state and people collect water from any available source, adding to the threat. “Necessary instructions have been given to check the water bodies especially in those areas where there is no adequate drinking water supply,“ said health minister K K Shylaja.
 
 The state witnessed a spurt in number of diarrhoea in two months this year with 62,098 cases reported from across the state. The health department anticipates the numbers to go up in March, April and May . “District health administration has been given necessary direction to monitor the situation,'' said Dr R Ramesh, director of health services.
 
 “People should use only boiled water for cooking and drinking. Apart from this storage of water also assumes significance. Water stored in unhygienic conditions is the main cause for the spreading of the disease. A major worry every summer is the availability of water in coastal regions of the state,'' said Dr A Althaf, community medicine department, med ical college hospital, Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 The health department has also issued directives to strictly monitor ice cubes used by the juice parlours and restaurants.“Often we find that these ice cubes are made from the water collected from unhygienic sources,'' said Dr Althaf.
 
 As per the statistics collected by the state disease surveillance team, on an average 1,400 cases of diarrhoea are being reported from the state in a day. More number of cases are being reported from Malappuram followed by Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur.
 
 In the past, urbanites preferred to think that diarrhoea as a phenomenon that is confined to the coastal belt alone, where water contamination possibilities are immense and hygiene is poor. But now acute diarrhoeal diseases are being reported in large numbers from urban areas as well.
 
