MEERUT: In more violence between Dalits and Thakurs in Uttar Pradesh, one man returning from a   meeting in Shabbirpur village of Saharanpur district was shot dead and his friend grievously wounded on Tuesday, after they were waylaid by a mob. Both victims are Dalits. 

 Soon after the attack, dozens of houses belonging to Thakurs were allegedly burnt by members of the recently formed Dalit outfit, Bhim Army. Dozens were admitted in the district hospital, around which Dalits have formed a cordon. Reporters, too, were injured and their equipment broken or snatched away. Saharanpur has been wracked by   clashes in recent weeks, leading to the rapid growth of Bhim Army. On April 20, stone pelting left dozens injured when a group tried to barge into an Ambedkar Jayanti procession in Doodhli village.
 
 During the April 20 clash, the residence of then Saharanpur SSP, Love Kumar, was attacked. He later blamed a BJP leader for instigating the crowd. Just a fortnight later, on May 2, Shabbirpur village witnessed another clash between Thakurs and Dalits. 
 
 A person was killed, dozens of people were injured and many houses were razed. Saharanpur city witnessed a major face-off between Dalits and police on May 9. More than 20 vehicles were torched and dozens of cops injured. Tuesday’s violence followed BSP chief Mayawati’s visit to Shabbirpur village. She met Dalits who lost their homes in the earlier attack. A vehicle returning with BSP supporters was attacked with country-made weapons and swords in  , a little distance away from Shabbirpur. 
 
 The activist killed was identified as Ashish Kumar and his injured friend as Sachin. Security forces have been rushed to the region with DM and SSP personally monitoring the situation in Shabbirpur village, which continues to be tense. “A mob comprising hundreds of youths wearing blue suddenly barged into the Thakur colony and began burning our houses,” said  , a former village pradhan from the Thakur community.
 
  According to Puran Singh, also a Thakur said “more than two dozen homes and cattle sheds were targeted and burnt”. Dalits refuted the allegation saying Bhim Army was not involved in the arson. “Dalits are unnecessarily being blamed for the episode. This fire was started by the Thakurs themselves to show us in bad light and get publicity. A few articles here and there have been burnt and there is no serious damage,” said  , a Dalit resident of Shabbirpur village. SSP   said, “We are investigating the matterand no one will be spared.”
 
