KOLKATA: From an integrated bus-and-cycle system to  , the   wants to develop its jurisdiction area covering   and   as a smart green city.

 The civic authorities had conducted an online voting campaign last year to get to know what the citizens of the township of Salt Lake want and as to how the township could be developed as a smart green city. The civic authorities had asked eight different questions on which the residents were asked to vote online. Quite interestingly, more than 50% of citizens of the township came out with a wish the township should be developed as an ideal township for the elderly residents.
 
 The citizens came up with suggestions such as there should be 24x7 helpline number for the elderly, separate counters and sitting arrangements in parks, government offices, hospitals, banks and other such commercial establishments, facilities for primary healthcare services and arrangements in all the wards across the township, having library facilities and organising cultural programme in each wards specially for the elderly.
 
 Based on the feedback, the civic authorities are working on a number of plans to develop Salt Lake as a pollution-free environment-friendly township that would have advanced and smart concepts like integrated bus and cycle system, battery-run three-wheelers and electric-run buses, using solar and LED lights, having a segregated solid waste management system, advanced policing system and developing a modern urban ecosystem. The authorities have already started working on shifting all the streetlights of Salt Lake to LED lights.
 
 The civic authorities have already given a smart makeover to the corporation building Poura Bhavan. “The interiors of the building have been given a corporate touch. A huge projector has been installed in front of the mayor’s room on the first floor, smart LED television sets have been installed and a separate room with computer facilities have been set up for each of the 41 councillors. 
 
 The civic authorities had earlier worked out a   plan after it was shortlisted by the Centre in the 100 smart cities list but the state government had opted out of the scheme.
 
 
