GUWAHATI: The Centre's approval of the Tamil Nadu government's draft ordinance on allowing 'jallikattu' has encouraged organizers of the traditional 'moh juj' (buffalo fight) in Assam. 

 The  's 2014 order prohibiting animal fights and races includes 'moh juj'. Organizers of the buffalo fight, traditionally held on the first day of  , had kept a keen eye on protests in the southern state and were heartened by the outcome.
 
 "Though the ordinance refers only to jallikattu, we are happy. The developments in Tamil Nadu will have a positive impact here as far as moh juj is concerned," said  , secretary of a committee that would organize one of the biggest buffalo fights at   in   district.
 
 Though the state has not seen protests like those in Tamil Nadu, many owners and keepers of buffaloes organized fights on January 15 (the first day of Magh) in Ahatguri and other places in defiance of the Supreme Court ban. Thousands turned up to see the fights. The committees that would earlier organize the fights, however, stayed away.
 
 "Customs and traditions are things that cannot be done away with overnight. Buffalo fights are part of a tradition which has been carried on from generation to generation. They are an integral part of agricultural life in the state. People's sentiments are associated with it," Das said.
 
 An organizer of buffalo fights, who refused to be named, said the protests in Tamil Nadu and the subsequent ordinance had set a precedent which would help pave the way for Assam to hold on to its tradition as well.
 
 The Supreme Court, while hearing the case of the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) vs A Nagaraja and others in 2014, had passed an order banning all animal races and fights in the country and had asked both the AWBI and the Centre to prevent the infliction of pain on animals and birds.
 
 The AWBI in 2015 had written to the state government seeking an end to animal and bird fights that were part of Bihu celebrations across the state. Since then, the state government, through the district administrations, has clamped down on such fights during the festive season.
 
 
