 and   are gearing up for the release of ' ', for which they shot extensively in Delhi. The actors tell us they feel privileged that they got permission to shoot at DU’s   and St Stephen's College. They spent around 15 days in North Campus, learning about the colleges and what they are famous for – from Stephen's' keema chops to the popular hang-out spots in the campus.

  As the conversation turns to the ridiculously high cut-offs in DU, the actors are shocked to find out that sometimes the ‘lowest’ that students need to score to get admission is 99.99%.
 
 "Really?! I mean you need to be a superhero or have superhuman powers to get admission in these colleges," Shraddha replies.
 
  
  Arjun and Shraddha Kapoor
 
 "Humko toh shock lag gaya sunke. Humein inn colleges mein shoot karne ki permission mil gayi, hamari aukaat toh utni hi thi," Arjun says, adding, "Ali Abbas Zafar, who directed me in 'Gunday', is from Kirori Mal College, where Bachchan sir also studied. I visited that college with him (Zafar) and heard stories about it. I have met many people who have studied in DU. After realising how difficult it is to get admission here, I have new-found respect for those who got in. We now feel even more privileged to have got the opportunity to walk through the doors of such reputed colleges. While promoting the film, people told us that they were excited to see their college in the film's promos."
 
  
  
 
  Explaining how Delhi was the perfect backdrop to the film, Arjun says, "I think Delhi is an amazing city. It gave us many possibilities to show the disparity in the film between the small town boy and the rich girl. My character, Madhav Jha, is a guy from a small town who meets Riya Somani, a Delhi girl from an affluent family. Delhi plays an important part in the film. Madhav shows Riya a different side of the city and they explore it together – a late night meal at Hauz Khas, visits to Dilli Haat and Humayun’s Tomb, a ride on the Delhi Metro. Delhi is a character in our film. DU is also very important as the starting point of the film."
 
  
  Shraddha shooting for 'Half Girlfriend' in Miranda House
 
  Talking about their experience of shooting in DU, Arjun says, "We shot scenes in many colleges – like the basketball court in Miranda and some areas of St Stephen's – and it all came together to show one big college in the film. Since we shot in June, when the colleges are shut and students go home, we didn't get an exact sense of the college life in DU. But it was great seeing the beautiful campuses and the amazing set-up they have. A lot of credit goes to Chetan (Bhagat, on whose book the film is based) for making sure that we got all the right locations to shoot in. I went with him to meet the principal of St Stephen's College when we started shooting. I was very happy that they gave us permission to shoot in the college. It is not easy to allow shoots, as it brings along a lot of madness, but everyone was so kind."
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Shraddha adds that she only knew about DU through her father (Shakti Kapoor), who studied at KMC. "I didn't know much about DU before I came here, so I was excited about shooting here. My dad studied in KMC. He has told me a few stories of his college days, but I need to sit with him and know more," she says.
 
  To play a "high society Delhi girl", Shraddha wasn't really given any references. She tells us that she met two girls from Delhi to observe how they talk. "Since I was playing this Delhi girl who comes from a wealthy background, I had to meet a couple of girls from a similar background. It was interesting to meet them and imbibe some of their characteristics. My character needed a certain body language in the film. I studied in Mumbai's Jamnabai Narsee School and the American School of Bombay, where expat kids study, and they also have certain mannerisms. I took all that into consideration while prepping for Half Girlfriend. I feel that there is a side to me that has been influenced by my schooling. I also went to Boston University for one year and that influenced my preparation for the film," says Shraddha.
 
  
 
 
