NEW DELHI: Less than 10 days after the results of the   were declared, and with the lieutenant governor yet to notify the constitution of the new BJP-majority houses in the civic bodies, the East and North Delhi Municipal   are already facing difficulties in paying employee   for April. Last week, EDMC sought Rs 235 crore from the Aam Aadmi Party-led state government, while north corporation put in a request for Rs 97 crore.

 Teachers, nurses, paramedical staff, office assistants, clerks, accountants, engineers, doctors and administrative officers in these two bodies have not been paid for two months. “We dedicate precious hours of our everyday life to teaching children, but our remuneration is always delayed,” grumbled Vibha Singh, member of the EDMC teachers’ union.
 
 Salaries of sanitation workers in both the cash-strapped bodies are a priority their numerous strikes. “This month we paid the sanitation workers, but it will not be possible next month,” EDMC official added.
 
 A finance department official said EDMC needs Rs 135 crore every month for payment of salaries and pensions. But with the income hovering around half that, the civic body is, according to the official, “heavily dependent on the Delhi government to pay our employees”.
 
 Slightly better off, the north corporation is still financially straitened. “We need Rs 97 crore to pay our employees their April salary,” said an official. “We have disbursed Rs 62 crore as pay for sanitation workers and Grade IV workers, and Rs 30 crore will be released soon to pay more staff. But unless we get Rs 97 crore, we will not be able to give all our employees their salary,” a senior official said.
 
 The potential and the actual income generation of the civic bodies formed a big part of the campaign to the civic polls. While the civic bodies complain that the state government has not given them the funds as mandated by the Delhi Finance Commission, the government claims it provides adequate funding that is diluted by corruption.
 
 EDMC wants to be unified with the SDMC to avoid the perennial problem of lack of funds for salaries. A couple of months ago, EDMC wrote to chief secretary of Delhi government on the matter. It argued that because SDMC has only four zones , EDMC’s two zones could be appended to south corporation.
 
 
