KOCHI: Want to know about the iconic Maharaja's College? About its history and how it started as an elementary school and turned into a college, or about the teachers who left a lasting impression in the minds of the students or about the culture of campus politics that helped the college make a name for itself? Maharajakeeyam, a souvenir on Maharaja's College, which will be released on Sunday, will have all the answers and much more. 

 The 160-page magazine will be released to mark the third edition of the Maharaja's alumni meet, named 'Maharajakeeyam'.The first edition was held in 2008. The new souvenir tackles the question: 'What have you learned beyond the textbooks from the college'.
 
 Several well-known people, including   ministers, literary figures, historians and film personalities who passed out decades ago recount what the college taught them in life and how it inspired them to reach great heights in their careers.
 
 Literary critic K P Shankaran, who studied MA Malayalam remembers how the institution helped him develop an interest in literary criticism. Former defence minister A K Antony recounts that the campus politics in the college taught him to be secular in his outlook. "There were rivalries between students belonging to different political groups but as soon as we came out of the college there was no place for enmity. It made me to think beyond all kinds of barriers," he says.
 
 Former Union minister   writes: "I met the better half of my life, Mercy at the college. It was platonic love." Environmentalist and former principal of the college M K Prasad has written about the campus garden. The souvenir is packed with articles by several others and also has write-ups which had appeared in old college magazines.
 
 The souvenir also touches upon the first college magazine, which was issued in 1918. An article on it says that V R Venkiteswara Iyer took charge as the first Indian principal of the college in 1918. When his office boy was cleaning the almirah, Iyer saw a yearly bulletin published at  . It dawned upon Iyer that Maharaja's too can come up with one and the first magazine was issued in October in the same year.
 
 Also in the souvenir is a collection of photos of 'faces in rain', taken by  , an alumni of the college. 
 
 A DVD of 'Rajageethakam' the theme song of the alumni was released on Thursday at the college by film star Salim Kumar.
 
