Nagpur: In gamble of sorts, the problem two-year-old tigress (T27-C1), which was captured from South Brahmapuri on July 10, will be released on Friday in Bor Tiger Reserve, 60km from here in Wardha district.  The decision was taken by PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra after a majority of the members of a state-level committee decided to give the tigress a chance considering its young age and associating its aggressive behaviour to adolescence. The tigress, struggling to establish its own territory, has mauled two villagers and injured five persons who ventured deep into forest areas. It was captured amid public and political pressure, and has been kept at Gorewada Resue Centre. Misra confirmed that after analysing the committee report and marathon discussions with forest officials, he has “decided to release the tigress in Bor, where the prey base is good and additional space has been created after relocation of Navargaon village”. Currently, 138.12 sqkm Bor has 10 tigers, which includes 5 cubs. There are two females with one having two 7-month-old cubs and another female Katrina having three 5-month-old cubs. Two sub-adult cubs (18 months) of Katrina — Pinky and Yuvraj — have separated. There is one dominant male Bajirao (B2), which has a huge territory right from Hingni, Kharangana and Karanja in Wardha and Kalmeshwar in Nagpur. Experts say in one male tiger’s territory 3-4 tigresses can be fitted in. A tigress settles in a territory of 20 sqkm. The range of a male tends to overlap those of several females, providing him with many mating partners. “Generally, young females establish their first territories close to their mother's as it happened in the case T27-C1, but as it was a fragmented forest with human dominated landscape, she came into conflict. Only time will tell whether the tigress adjusts to the new home,” experts said. Some conservationists cautioned that the problem tigress may come close to villages in the vicinity of Bor. “Had there been space in Bor, why couldn’t Katrina’s sibling Pinky establish her territory till now,” they asked.  However, Misra says, “We have a unified buffer now. Besides, the tigress will be fitted with a satellite radio collar by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and in case of trouble, it will be captured. It is for better monitoring chances in Bor, we dropped idea to release it Pench and Chaprala, where tracking would have been difficult,” he added. The PCCF added, “Caging such young tigers is not conservation. We have to take calculated risks sometimes. Bor was the right choice considering additional space, prey and not much of undulating terrain, which makes monitoring easy,” the PCCF added. DFOs Uttam Sawant and SB Bhalavi has been named as nodal officers for the entire operation. Both have been given freedom to pick their monitoring team and all administrative and logistics support have been given to them. WII’s tiger scientist Bilal Habib is reaching on Thursday. He will meet Misra and hold discussions about Bor and buffer area. He is likely to visit Bor to evaluate the area before release of the tigress. 