CHANDIGARH: Congress stormed back to office in Punjab after 10 years with a near twothirds majority, riding the popularity of its veteran functionary, Captain  . The scion of the erstwhile Patiala royalty could not have asked for a better present on Saturday -his 75th birthday.

 Both Amarinder and cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, who won the Amritsar East seat, projected the Congress sweep as the beginning of its revival across the country and challenged BJP's bid to make India “Congress-mukt“.
 
 However, the party's tally of 77 out of 117 seats is surprising because it garnered just 38.4% of the total votes compared with 40.90% it had got in 2012. SAD bagged 25.2% and AAP just 23.8%.
 
 Asked if he was the sole architect of the stunning victory, Amarinder said, “It's a win for the entire party and its supporters. You can't divorce me from it. This has settled the outsider versus insider debate. (AAP chief) Arvind Kejriwal is like a summer storm which came and went away. We, on the other hand, are Punjabis who will never leave (the state). The Badals brought Punjab to its knees.“
 
 A lot was at stake for Amarinder once he had publicly announced that 2017 would be his last poll after which he would like to retire from politics. What the former chief minister was looking for was personal redemption after losing the 2012 elections when most pollsters had predicted a majority for Congress. Even after scripting one of the biggest upsets of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections by defeating BJP's Arun Jaitley in Amritsar, Captain appeared uninterested in carving a space for himself in national politics.
 
 His only wish was to become CM one last time and even threatened to quit Congress if the central leadership did not declare him chief of the Punjab unit ahead of this year's assembly elections. The party's decision to finally relent and make Amarinder the face of the campaign in the state -a strategy suggested by Prashant Kishor and his I-PAC team -has paid off.
 
 Amarinder, who contested from two seats, won his pocket borough of Patiala Urban by more than 52,000 votes, the biggest victory margin in the state. He lost against SAD's Parkash Singh Badal in Lambi, but many believe his sheer presence in the crucial Malwa helped Congress cut into AAP's popularity in the region and played a key role in the final result.
 
 AAP, which ended up with just 20 seats, was banking heavily on winning a majority of the 69 constituencies in Malwa, but managed 18. Congress won 39 seats in Malwa and crushed the opposition.
 
 AAP found itself caught on the wrong foot on a number of issues, including being branded as outsiders by other parties, alienating Hindus by allegedly getting too close to certain Sikh groups and not projecting a CM candidate. Among the biggest setbacks for AAP was the defeat of its heavyweights, MP Bhagwant Mann in Jalalabad and its Punjab convener Gurpreet Waraich (Ghuggi) in Batala.
 
 Outgoing CM Parkash Singh Badal and his entourage will not even be the main opposition party with AAP snatching that space. The Akali Dal-BJP combine got 18 seats, its worst performance ever. The only saving grace for the Akalis was that their three biggest netas -Badal Sr, deputy CM Sukhbir Badal and his brother-inlaw, Bikram Majithia -won comfortably.
 
 SAD drew a blank in Faridkot and Moga, the two districts where incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 had become the epicentre of protest.
 
