LUCKNOW: The maiden session of the   started on a stormy note on Monday as opposition members led by   (SP) disrupted governor Ram Naik’s joint address to the two Houses, throwing paper missiles at him and shouting slogans during his 35-minute speech. 

 However, an undeterred Naik (82) completed his speech even as marshals surrounded him and used official files to deflect the paper missiles hurled by opposition members who had trooped into the Well of the House. They were demanding that Naik’s speech make a mention of the 'deteriorating law and order situation’ in the state. 
 
 Carrying banners and placards, the opposition disrupted the House despite being outnumbered by the treasury benches — 78 against 325 MLAs. Since it was a joint session, the opposition’s strength was bolstered by 66 SP MLCs, many of whom were seen in action in the Well of the House. 
 
 Naik reminded the legislators that the “whole country was watching them” as, for the first time, the proceedings of the House were being aired live on Doordarshan. But his appeal didn't cut much ice with the belligerent opposition members. 
 
 Wearing the party’s red cap, almost all the SP MLAs and MLCs jumped into the Well of the House moments after Naik began reading his speech. Some of them hurled paper missiles towards Naik’s chair while a few others, led by Irfan Solanki, rushed menacingly towards the governor but were held back by the marshals.
 
 Despite every effort by the marshals, however, a few paper missiles did land on Naik’s table. SP legislative party leader Akhilesh Yadav watched from his seat his legislators attacking the governor. Political analysts said though the UP assembly had witnessed a free-for-all in 1997, this kind of protest during the governor’s address was unprecedented. 
 
 On his part, Naik maintained his composure and ended his speech with a resounding “Bharat Mata ki Jai” and “Vande Matram”. 
 
 CM Yogi Aditya Nath, who was present in the House, is learnt to have taken a strong view of the opposition’s behaviour and discussed the matter with the Speaker. Sources said the two discussed ways to ensure that such instances don’t recur and among the options discussed was frisking of MLAs to prevent them from bringing in placards and banners. 
 
 UP government spokesperson and cabinet minister   targeted the SP for the pandemonium, saying: “Akhilesh Yadav kept quiet while his former ministers were creating ruckus... All these actions show the SP’s mindset.”
 
