HYDERABAD: An amnesty for illegal workers in Saudi Arabia, enabling them to leave the country without penalty or imprisonment, may seem like a good opportunity. But Telangana workers are not warming up to the idea.

 The Consulate General of India, Jeddah has begun a programme to help Indian workers who are staying illegally in Saudi Arabia to return to their country. The amnesty period is from March 29 to June 27, and illegal workers opting for this would be exempted from all penalties for violating labour, Iqama and border security laws.They will also be exempted from the `Deported Fingerprint', which will allow them to enter the Kingdom legally later.
 
 There are an estimated 10 lakh workers from the two Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the Gulf countries. Of this, nearly 4 lakh workers are in Saudi Arabia, which includes at least 50,000 illegal workers from Telangana.But only 200 have applied for amnesty so far.
 
 “When UAE gave the amnesty option a few years ago, only 136 workers who were overstaying in the country displayed interest in going back to India. Many chose to stay behind and were willing to take the risk,“ said Peechara Kiran Kumar, president of   Dubai-UAE.
 
 The hesitation to avail the offer stems from financial considerations. A worker might pay `1 lakh to an agent to gain entry into the Gulf on a work permit. In two years, this is how much he may end up earning, leaving hissm with no financial advantage. If his visa expires by then, the worker chooses to stay illegally so that he can earn more money . Most workers are not willing to give that up and choose to stay despite the risks.
 
 Saudi Arabia, which wants to make itself a `a nation with no legal violator', is piling on incentives in the amnesty scheme in hopes of attracting illegal workers. Ahmad Javed, ambassador of India to the  , and Noor Rahman, Consul-General of India in Jeddah, have made arrangements at various places for workers to access forms and submit them with all the required documents. “We appeal to our nationals to make use of the Amnesty ,“ Ahmad Javed said in an appeal to Indian workers staying in Saudi Arabia illegallly.
 
 
