NEW DELHI:   and youth got the majority of the 27 municipal seats for which Janta Dal (United) announced candidates on Thursday. Over 80% of the candidates are Poorvanchalis, indicating the party’s thrust to target the migrant voters from Bihar and eastern UP who have always played a crucial role in the Delhi elections. 

 The party’s   includes a sitting councillor and one Muslim woman. Around 50% of the candidates are dedicated party workers while the rest has gone to newcomers. 
 
 With the number of Poorvanchalis growing in Delhi, JD(U), for the first time, is contesting all 272 seats in the civic elections. The party is focusing its campaign on what its leader   has achieved as chief minister of Bihar. 
 
 Sanjay Jha, its Delhi in-charge, said the candidates were promising. “Each was chosen from a number of ticket-seekers. Most have been active in the social service sector,” Jha said. “The second list will be released next week,” he added.
 
 Sikha Shah, who won Hari Nagar Extension in 2012 on an NCP ticket and recently joined JD(U), has been fielded from Hari Nagar in the Badarpur assembly constituency. Candidates for Sarita Vihar, Kalkaji, South Dwarka, Sangam Vihar, Pandav Nagar and Badarpur have also been announced. 
 
 In the last three months, JD(U) has reorganised itself in Delhi. However, convincing a majority of the migrants to prefer JD(U) will not be an easy task. The party’s organisational strength in Delhi is nowhere close to BJP, AAP or Congress. Congress and AAP have won the confidence of the migrants from Bihar and eastern UP in the past. However, the party believes its hardwork would pay off.
 
 JD(U) is targeting women voters, many of whom have witnessed the transformation of families in remote villages of Bihar after Nitish banned liquor consumption.
 
  The move has made Nitish a favourite among women who found their families on the verge of ruins as their husbands were addicted to alcohol. JD(U) is also selling Brand Bihar in slum clusters and unauthorised colonies that house a large number of migrants from Bihar.
 
 
