GURUGRAM: Action got under way on Friday in the fifth season of the  , which sees four new teams make their bow. One of these is the  , who will be looking to make it a debut season to remember.

 And it won’t only be the Steelers that will have representatives from Haryana. For,   boast raider Ravi Dalal, defenders   (left corner) and Satpal (right corner), and all-rounder Vishal. Its further proof of how entrenched kabaddi has become in a state that has always been known for its sporting pedigree.
 
 But even before the Haryana Steelers could embark on their Pro Kabaddi journey, their hopes suffered a major blow when veteran Sonu Narwal was ruled out of the entire campaign due to injury. Hopefully, his 6’2” presence will help inspire the Steelers, especially when they turn up in front of their home supporters, at the Motilal Nehru School of Sports, Rai, in Sonepat.
 
 “I love the fact that we have a chance to show the home crowd what this team can do,” Narwal had said before his fitness issues came to light. Owned by JSW Sports, the Haryana outfit will be led by Surender Nada.
 
 If there’s one thing money can’t buy, it’s 35 years of coaching nous and knowhow, which Ranbir Singh Khokkar brings in bucketloads. To this former player goes the credit of putting Haryana on the kabaddi map, way back in the 1980s, when his efforts helped break the stranglehold that Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had on the contact sport.
 
 Khokkar, a Haryanvi, also coached the Indian team to Asiad gold in 1990, the first time that kabaddi was included in any international competition. “I believe this team has the right balance. We want to contend for top honours, and are ready to give everything to the cause,” the stalwart gaffer remarked on the Steelers’ chances.
 
 Meanwhile, the Dabang Delhi team was preparing for the new season not too far away from the Millennium City, basing themselves for almost a month on the campus of BML Munjal University. And last week, the ‘Dabang’ boys invited 200 fans to witness their training session. They clearly mean business, but so do the Steelers.
 
 Dabang Delhi start their run against the Jaipur Pink Panthers on July 29, while the Haryana Steelers open against U Mumba on July 30.
 
