BENGALURU: It's time to   for 2017-18. To make the process hassle-free, the   is making arrangements to   at the offices of   (ROs) or   (AROs).

 The BBMP is in talk with banks to deploy officials for tax collection at these offices which are across the city and present at ward level too.
 
 Several tax payers had last year complained about lack of dedicated counters at banks for tax payments and ill-preparedness of the BBMP in this regard.
 
 M K Gunashekar, chairman, standing committee on   and Finance, BBMP, said “Though we have online payment option, many prefer off line mode. Having bank officials, who are equipped with swipe machines and necessary receipts at RO and ARO offices, will help taxpayers complete the process without running around much.“
 
 Gunashekar said they have already discussed the matter with bank managements. “They are of the opinion that such a facility can be extended during peak payment season of property tax.
 
 As April and May will be one such season where a lot of people will pay tax to avail rebate, the initiative will soon be implemented. We will soon make a public announcement in this regard,“ he added.
 
 
 
 
 The financial year for 201718 commenced from April 1 and the property tax can be paid as one full instalment or two instalments. If you are paying in two instalments, the first one will be interest-free if it is within April 30, 2017. The second one will be interest-free if it is paid before November-end.
 
 
 
 
 The BBMP is offering 5% rebate on property tax for payments made before April 30. The mode of payment can be online, cash, cheque or demand draft.For details, log on to http:bbmp.gov.in or http:bbmptax.karnataka.gov.in formsForms.aspx
 
 
 
 The BBMP standing committee on taxation and finance has recently cleared the budget proposal on allotting unique digital numbers for houses and roads in the city. “We will float tenders to shortlist agencies for the project. It will also be a smart city initiative. Such an identity, which includes digital coordinates of each property along with PID number and other things, will go a long way in streamlining the property listing in the city. Collection of property tax will also be augmented as more properties will come under the tax bracket,“ Gunashekar said.
 
