HYDERABAD: The city has turned into a key conduit for transporting gullible villagers as   for drug trials. On Sunday , a busload of people from the city will be   by  , sources told TOI.

 With money being the bait, many innocent and illiterate people are being drawn into this racket with new medicines being administered on them by drug-testing labs. Many suffer adverse health effects, which trigger death or severe illness, but drug laboratories steer clear of responsibility . Since subjects keep their families in the dark about drug trials, nobody knows why and how they die.
 
 An investigation reveals for those willing to take the Mumbai bus on Sunday for  , which is being conducted by a leading pharma company , the agents have promised good money . Dinner too will be provided free. One of the subjects has been promised `25,900, besides travelling allowance. The screening will be done on May 8. They will have to be in the age-group of 19-44 years and their BMI should be 18.5 to 30.
 
 After the subject is screened and selected, they are asked to give 649 ml of blood. The clinical trials procedure begins immediately after screening. According to sources, subjects will have to be at the trial facility for 48 hours between May 8 and 9.They will be given the first sample of the drug that will be tested on them.
 
 The second round of clinical trials on the same set of people will be on May 29, the third on June 19 and the fourth on July 10.
 
 Another agent is promising `48,000 each for `subjects' willing to undergo clinical trials in Gujarat on May 8, May 22, June 5 and June 23.
 
 It is learnt that pharma companies allegedly `outsource' the task of luring subjects for clinical trials to agents, who fan out in cities and rural areas to trap and deliver.
 
 The agents, it is learnt, are paid lakhs of rupees by the pharma companies.The onus of handling any health situation of subjects is on the agents, who are fly-by-night operators.
 
  Control Organization of Director General of Health Services, Ministry of Family Welfare, Government of India, has come out with a Good Clinical Practice Inspection checklist. However, this is hardly adhered to by pharma companies which conduct trials on the sly without subjects being given full information about what they will be subjected to, sources told TOI.
 
