NEW DELHI: Moving a step closer to capping stent prices, the   has proposed classifying the life-saving tubes, which keep blood vessels open, under two categories, and can offer up to 50% reduction in the cost of drug eluting cardiac stents. 

 I f accepted, the  's (NPPA) proposals will become effective from February. The stents have been primarily placed under two categories - drug eluting stents (DES) and bare metal stents ( ) with   setting out an option to fix prices. 
 
 The options include fixed percentage margins over average price to distributor, hospital, on production cost and on landed cost for imported products. For instance, while most proposed DES ceiling prices are in the range of Rs 20,000-Rs 40,000, the highest at Rs 67,272 has been calculated using the average price of the stent to the hospital topped with a 16% margin. Similarly, another suggestion to fix price of DES at Rs 39,978 is based on average price to the distributor plus a 16% margin.
 
 The pricing decision is now in its final stages with NPPA asking all stakeholders to submit suggestions on the proposed options by January 26. 
 
 The regulator has also asked companies to submit documents and relevant data to support their representations.
 
 Besides these options, the regulator has also suggested using the current CGHS pricing. Companies provide high quality stents at best prices under the central government health scheme. The maximum retail prices of DES in the market can go up to around Rs 2 lakh, whereas the reimbursement rate for DES under CGHS is Rs 22,500.
 
 NPPA, in its notification dated January 13, has also suggested fixing prices with an annual hike on CGHS price for both DES and BMS categories. 
 
 The regulator has proposed that ceiling prices of drug eluting stents, which also include biodegradable stents, be fixed at rates ranging between Rs 10,699 to Rs 67,272. For bare metal stents, the price ranges between Rs 8,422 to Rs 15,211. In case of bare metal stents, NPPA has differentiated between stainless steel and cobalt stents and accordingly suggested price caps.
 
 The regulator, however, has not accepted suggestions from medical device makers, mainly multinational companies, to further differentiate ceiling prices of drug eluting stents based on a matrix that includes criteria like complexity of the stent design or how innovative it is. 
 
 Manufacturers have also strongly opposed CGHS as well as distributor price-based mechanisms, which set prices at a lower range.
 
 "NPPA is open to consider additional options, if any, which may be suggested by any of the stakeholders," an official said.
 
 
