PATIALA: With the change of guard in Punjab following the assembly elections, Punjabi University vice-chancellor Dr   and Guru Nanak Dev University vice-chancellor Prof Ajaib Singh Brar have resigned from their posts. 

 While professor Jaspal met Punjab governor V P Badnore in Chandigarh and put in his papers on Tuesday evening, Brar submitted his resignation on March 8.
 
 Professor Jaspal occupied the position of V-C on December 12, 2007 and his term was extended in 2010 for three years followed by another two-year extension in 2013. He was serving his third extension, which was to an end on December 11, 2018.
 
 Had Jaspal completed his term, he would have been the longest serving V-C of the Punjabi varsity. Considered close to former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, he had earlier served as the Indian high commissioner at Mozambique and Swaziland.
 
 A scholar of Punjabi, religion and Sikh history, Jaspal completed his master’s degree in political science from   and did his doctorate from  , Chandigarh.
 
 While the V-C could not be contacted, sources said the formalities would be completed in the next two-three days.
 
 Brar told TOI on Wednesday that he had put in his papers three days before the announcement of the assembly election results. Rejecting reports of political reasons behind his step, the VC said he had resigned on personal grounds. “My family is not keeping well. I am on leave for past over a month and I had informed the governor about my resignation much before the poll result,” he maintained. According to sources, Brar had urged the chancellor to relieve him by March 31. 
 
 A close confidant of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, Brar was the VC of   before taking charge of GNDU on July 15, 2009. It is alleged that he had benefited the SAD government in acquiring the land for Central University of Punjab in his capacity as chairman, land selection committee. Owing to his closeness with the Badals he was given three extensions as GNDU VC. During his tenure Brar never had cordial relations with teaching and non-teaching associations of the university. The associations had staged protests against him on several occasions. 
 
