Standing 6-feet-9-inches tall, basketball player   towers above others alongside him- both literally and figuratively. The NBA finals' Most Valuable Player (MVP) is currently the toast of the town, having led his side, the Golden State Warriors, to a title win and establishing himself as arguably the best player of his generation. So it is no surprise that his visit to India is generating huge amounts of buzz. Durant was in NCR for two days but he was a busy man throughout, doing everything from visiting a school and hobnobbing with Bollywood celebs to attempting a Guinness world record.

  
 On Friday morning, Durant visited Ramjas School, RK Puram to loud cheers of 'KD KD!' from the students. Durant has funded two basketball courts at the school through his foundation. Though the basketball player did not stay at the school for more than half an hour, the students were overwhelmed to meet the player.
 
 
  
  Kevin Durant at the academy
 
 
  When the 28-year-old reached the school, the kids almost mobbed him, asking for autographs. On reaching the basketball court where the students had been waiting for him since morning, Durant said, "Thank you for inviting me here and giving me this opportunity to be here with you all." Rachna Pant, the principal of the school, also extended a warm welcome to the player and said, "It is a big moment for all of us at Ramjas School. I don't think he knows that I am also one of his fans."
 
  
  
 
  Durant went on the court while dribbling the ball and took some shots. The basketball teams of the school, who had expected that they might get a chance to play with the player, were left disappointed when the player posed for a photo with the team and left. Shruti Rawat, a student of class X, said, "He is like the god of basketball. We wish he had stayed a bit longer, but we are happy that he came here."
 
 
  
  Durant made it to the Guinness Book of World Records for training the largest basketball clinic of 5,000 kids (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 Durant landed in Delhi on Thursday afternoon and his first engagement in the capital was a reception dinner hosted by actor and basketball fan Abhishek Bachchan at a city hotel. The dinner saw some big names from sports and entertainment in attendance, most of whom were admittedly star-struck themselves. Actor Rannvijay Singha, who has represented Delhi in basketball at the national level, said, "My favourite team is the Golden State Warriors. Ever since the NBA told me that Durant was going to be in India, I've been really, really looking forward to meeting him."
 
  
  
 
  Abhishek is a Los Angeles Lakers fan while Durant plays for the rivals Golden State Warriors and the actor wasted no time in reminding him that he was from the 'wrong team'. "I've been an NBA fan since '82 when my father took me to a game in Los Angeles. Although Kevin is not from the right team - I'm an LA Lakers fan - it's an honour to have him here... he's the current Finals MVP and champion. He’s a great player and I really admire him. I welcome him with an open heart and hope he enjoys his trip," he said. 
 
  
  (L-R)  
  and Rannvijay Singha
 
 
  The guests had their questions ready for the basketball star. While   said he would want to discuss how Durant soaks pressure during knockout games, comedian Tanmay Bhat said he would love to take the basketball star out for a stroll and chat on the streets of Delhi.
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 The final pit stop during Durant's NCR trip was at the NBA Academy in Greater Noida, where he attempted the Guinness World Record for the largest basketball clinic ever by training 5,000 kids at the same time. While a thousand participants were present at the academy, 4,000 others joined from four different centres via video conferencing.
 
  
  Virender Sehwag with his wife Aarti at the dinner (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  With Carlos Barroca, senior director basketball operations, NBA India, leading the clinic, Durant engaged the kids in some basic training exercises under the watchful eyes of the Guinness adjudicators. The kids were unsure what they were more excited about - attempting a world record or meeting their idol. Akash, a 13-year-old from Delhi, said, "It feels so amazing that I will be part of a world record and that too alongside Kevin Durant, who is my favourite player."
 
  
  
 
 
