 was the venue for a very special   on Sunday. Heart-tugging coming out stories of the members of Hyderabad’s   resonated at the event titled ‘Story Telling With Pride’. The listeners, who turned up in good numbers to have a comprehensive view on how difficult it is to come out to the world as being LGBT, also shared their personal anecdotes of coming in touch with their first ever queer friend or a family member. 
Among those who shared an elaborate coming out tale was Anurag, whose father first reacted saying “Is this a prank or a joke?” after he told him about his sexual orientation.
 He went on, “I told him, ‘No, dad I’m dead serious!’ And he said, ‘Son, who is stuffing all this nonsense in your head? Son, these all things are practiced by the Western people and our culture is very far from that!’”
 Anurag said that when he was in school and growing up, he thought there was something wrong with him. “There was no one I could talk to; I was getting depressed day by day. I started hating myself. I finally gave up and decided to commit suicide, but failed in that too!” said Anurag, who took a good six years to come to terms with his sexuality before coming out.
 At the event organised by   along with  , most tales reflected a common feeling of alienation that drove many to the brink of insanity. The surprise really came in when one of the volunteers from the organising committee shared her coming out tale, which even the team was not aware of. The rivetting tales infused a sense of shared burden and empathy that prevailed in the air all through the session. 
 Sandi from Queer Campus Hyderabad said it was a cathartic experience for the storytellers. “When people listen to you, it alleviates your fear to come out to the world. It gave the community a strong feeling that they are not alone. The point was to come out with pride, not fear,” he said. 
 Santosh Mohan Veeranki, who hosted the event, explained, “This event was organised to give platform to bring together the LGBT community and its supporters. It was also a platform for those willing to understand further about the spectrum of sexuality, but did not have the chance to in their everyday life. The goal is to create connections by sharing and fostering a larger community.”
 
