AHMEDABAD: It took the disappearance of a 23-year-old youth to make his family members realize how strong his determination was to change his gender through   and   ( ). 

 Jayesh (name changed), a resident of Paldi, was reported missing by his family members on March 11 from Madhavpura market. His phone was switched off and even after a day, there was no news. The family sought police intervention, after which a team traced his mobile phone to a hospital in Navrangpura where his bike was found on March 14.
 
 “He had got admitted to the clinic to undergo sex change operation. In his statement, he has mentioned that it was his desire to be a woman as he never identified with his body of a man,” said a Madhavpura  
 
 “He tried to convince the conservative family about his feelings, but he was instead asked to suppress his desires. Two years ago, he had started taking hormonal therapy for the gradual change and the operation was a final step in his journey,” said the police official.
 
 He added that Jayesh has not met his family members. “He is open to the idea of returning home only if he is accepted as he is. As an adult, he has the right to choose his path,” he added.
 
 It is however not the first such instance in Gujarat. Shreya Lalwani, the first person in the state who went public after undergoing a sex reassignment surgery (SRS), said that non-acceptance by family can be a major frustration for such a person. “The society for long has not been rewarding towards such rebels,” she said.
 
 But Lalwani pointed out that instead of trying to convince immediate family members, it was desirable that they be counselled. 
 
 “Psychiatrists meet not only the person facing a Gender Identity Disorder (GID), but even their parents. In my case, I even took my maternal and paternal uncles for counselling. This way I had no fear of facing anybody from my past life,” said Lalwani who completed five years of being a woman on Thursday.
 
 Akkriti Patel, who works with the NGO Lakshya Trust and was the first person from Vadodara to go public after a SRS, said, “You just do not change your organs, you change your entire life.
 
  Acceptability in the society is a challenge and this is what makes families hostile to such decisions. It is not just about social stigma. 
 
 At times, families are worried if their wards will be able to cope up with the life of a woman.”
 
 Psychiatrist Dr Gautam Amin from Vadodara, who has counselled families and youths in a series of GID cases said that the society is not yet prepared to accept such situations. 
 
 “The problem is both ways. Families reluctant to accept such children and the children too do not discuss such issues with their families. But instead of shying away from one’s family, it is always advisable to keep them involved. We always counselled families when a person wanted to undergo SRS,” he said. 
 
