PUNE: Like every generation before them, millennials are looking for a way to define themselves culturally. And as a city of students and youngsters, Pune seems to have become a hub for  . 

 Millennials are loosely defined by those born between the mid 80’s or early 90’s or the generation that reached adulthood in the 21st century. In Pune, these youngsters are looking at poetry slams, drum circles and storytelling as a way of expressing themselves and blowing off some steam. 
 
 Their method of advertising has also changed with the times, instead of advertisements via print and TV media, social media pages coupled with notice boards of coffee shops is how they reach out to people.
 
  Unlike traditional shows, where there is a performer and an audience, most of these activities focus on participation from everyone. 
 
 Poetry slam are a mix of a performance and poetry, where these bards compete with each other for a prize. Judges are chosen at random from the audience and participants are judged on content and performance. While the slams started in Pune about three years ago, it has picked up just recently as ticketed events, says  , who teaches food science and technology at a college in Pimpri and also organises these events.
 
 “There is a performance every month and we get 70-80 people, generally in the age group of 16-35 years but recently senior citizens are also joining in. People use voice modulation and facial expressions in their performance. Other than this we have open mics and something called ‘poetry and chai’. While an open mic is for all, poetry and chai is only for performers come and hear each other out,” said Redican.
 
 The performances range between 2 to 5 minutes each and a poetry slam show is typically 2-3 hours long. There are various groups in Pune that do this and their online following is close to 5000 people. “These slams help popularize poetry. Imagine heading to a pub where a poetry slam is being held, it is an informal atmosphere and therefore connects instantly with youngsters. This activity is initiating youngsters to poetry,” added Redican.
 
 Drum circles are quite popular among millennials. It involves a facilitator who makes the audience play basic drums beats for a specific amount of time depending on the goal. If it is just for recreation, it may for an hour or so, but of it is for fighting stress or depression, there are workshops that can last for a day or two.
 
 These drum circles are either free or paid. “We get a variety of audience and are even being invited to IT companies now. We can use any percussion instruments but drums are the most basic, primitive instruments. When we were tribals, we did it, so the idea of rhythm comes easily to most of us,” said Khushboo Shah, founder Earthlings, a company that encourages various kinds of alternatives therapies, and drum circles is one of them. 
 
 There are various variations to drum circles. “Sometimes it also includes sharing of thoughts, or variations in playing. The audience is also varied, from children to geriatrics to people with certain kind of emotional conflicts and even cancer patients, all come for this and enjoy it,” said Shah.
 
 “The best part about a   is that when we are playing the drums, we get so engrossed that we don’t think about anything else. Our problems are forgotten for that particular time and our mind is without worry and hence relaxed,” Shah added.
 
 Another interesting activity is story telling, and city-based   does a community story telling circle every month at a city café for free. “People of all ages come to the story 
 
  “We always had grandparents, mothers, etc telling us stories as we were kids. Story telling has been a tradition in many cultures. The elders have some stories that they repeat, and each time add a layer of spice or extra information to it. Tribes had a tradition of telling stories around a bonfire and the stories ranged from their day’s work to their travels and life. This is what we are trying to revive,” said Dasgupta
 
 According to her, stories can help us deal with sorrow, grief, distress and anything that causes us discomfort as they have the power to transport us to another world. A story telling session is usually not longer than 2 -3 hours as that is a persons maximum attention span. “We get around 70-80 people regularly at our events and there is always a crop of new faces in the groups. I fee people are opening up to it and accepting it and even loving it,” said Dasgupta.
 
 Pune has always invited and been open to unique ideas and activities, it is this atmosphere that has helped make this city the cultural hub that it is.
 
