MUMBAI: A   student from   and his teacher have moved the Bombay high court against the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s ( ) decision to discontinue intra-city bus services in the Vasai-Virar region from next month.

 In his PIL, 12-year-old Sharian Dabre from Bhuigaon village said that every day, he and other students take the state transport bus at 6.30am to reach St Anthony Convent High School in Koliwada, which is 6km away, by 7.10am. Sharian added that his annual exams begin on March 29 and end on April 12 and if the bus services are discontinued from April 1, the students will face difficulty getting to school in time for the exams. His teacher Dominica Dabre (52) pointed out that MSRTC has stopped issuing monthly passes to students. The petition is likely to be heard on March 24.
 
 “I have been taking the state transport bus since two years. It is the only mode of transport in the morning,” said Sharian, who will have to walk for an hour-and-a-half to reach his school if the bus service is discontinued. Private vehicles transport students to schools post 10am. “Already, the delay tactics have begun. Earlier I used to return home by bus by 1.20pm, now I don’t reach before 2.30pm,” he added.
 
 In September 2016, MSRTC decided to stop intra-city bus services and asked the Vasai-Virar Municipal Transport (VVMT) to take over public transport in the region. MSRTC was running 48 services in the Vasai-Virar belt, but reduced it to 14 after VVMT was formed in 2012. MSRTC is not authorized to ply in the region without a no-objection certificate from the municipal corporation. 
 
 Between January 1 and 3, MSRTC discontinued 25 bus routes, including those servicing Rangaon, Giriz, Bhuigaon, Kalamb, Rajodi, Nala, Gaas, Umrale and other villages in Vasai (E), citing revenue losses. Following protests from villagers, the state transport body decided to run services till March 31.
 
 In the petition, Dominica, who is the second petitioner in the matter, said MSRTC has been doing 622 rounds and covering 4,266km daily in the region since five decades. Dominica, who lives in Giriz village, said the first bus that leaves the depot at 2.30am is beneficial to farmers and milk producers who ferry their produce to Mumbai for sale.
 
 While VVMT has requested the state transport body to continue plying as it does not have enough buses and depots, MSRTC has maintained that it does not operate intra-city services in other cities in the state and was only “assisting the local civic body”. VVMT officials refused comment on the matter.
 
 VVMT has around 150 buses and operates them on 32 ‘profitable’ routes on contractual basis. 
 
