Chennai: Dr C Arumugasamy, a general surgeon, will never forget the day a terminally ill patient asked him what death felt like. Or if it’s true his whole life would flash in front of his eyes minutes before darkness engulfed him. 

 Dr Arumugasamy’s degrees in medicine and surgery, and 17 years of experience inside the operation theatre had not prepared him to answer the patient, who suffered from terminal liver disease. The surgeon finally sought answers in a counseling course offered by a mental health institute in the city. 
 
 He isn’t the sole white-coat who is playing the role of a physician and a counsellor. Colleges and institutes offering programmes in counselling are seeing an increase in the number of physicians and traditional medical practitioners signing up for counselling courses.   say many the ailments they see are rooted in stress and their MBBS and MD degrees don’t equip them to counsel patients or recognise signs of stress.
 
 While some physicians do short-term counselling courses that vary between 3-6 months, some have enrolled in two-year masters programmes.
 
 Dr Tara Srinivasan, director of Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF), which offers a one-year diploma programme in counseling, said the trend was encouraging considering the shortage of psychologists in the state. Tamil Nadu has just over 400 psychiatrists and 100 clinical psychologists for a population of 7.2 crore.
 
 “Besides, most non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension have a strong mental health component. Doctors should be able to pick up signs and be able to talk” she said, adding that psycho-somatic ailments are also on the rise. According to the National Crime Record Bureau, close to 16% of all suicides in the state were related to illness. 
 
 Doctors who feel the most handicapped without a background in counseling are those who deal with terminally ill patients. Dr Mallika Tiruvadanan of Lakshmi Pain and Palliative Care trust said how, near death, psychological defences often crumbled and suppressed painful memories surfaced: childhood abuse, a bitter divorce, or the death of a much loved kin.
 
 “They say they are afraid. Many doctors assume the patient is just scared of death and ask them not to worry. But that’s not what they want, the patients want the doctors to ask and talk to them more,” she said. She recently undertook a training programme for government doctors and nurses from ten districts. 
 
 
