MUMBAI: On a day the Shiv Sena’s   was elected the 76th mayor of Mumbai with BJP support, the tussle between ex-allies in the BMC, BJP and Sena, showed no signs of ending anytime soon. Barely a few minutes after the BJP had voted for the Sena nominee, the newly elected First Citizen of the city hit out at the BJP.

 On the state government’s plan to appoint an Up-Lokayukta for the BMC, Mahadeshwar said an Up-Lokayukta should be appointed for the Nagpur municipal corporation too.
 
 “We too want transparency and therefore think that not just in Mumbai, but in Nagpur too an Up- Lokayukta’ should be appointed,” he said. Nagpur is the hometown of CM Devendra Fadnavis and the BJP swept the Nagpur civic polls recently.
 
 And when Sena president   entered the city Hall and took to the dais to felicitate the mayor and deputy mayor Hemangi Worlikar (also from the Sena), the BJP’s 82 corporators sent up cries of ‘Modi,’ ‘Modi,’ with the Sena corporators retaliating with slogans hailing their own party.
 
 But while BJP backed the two Sena nominees, independent corporator Mumtaz Khan, who was elected from Bandra and who had declared support to BJP, did not vote for the Sena candidates. Geeta Gawli, who had also declared support to BJP, however voted for the Sena.
 
 Mahadeshwar received 171 votes, while Congress nominee Vithal Lokre received just 31 -- all of Congress corporators. Worlikar received 166 votes as against the Congress nominee Winnifred D’souza’s 31. The Samajwadi Party and NCP chose not to vote while the seven corporators of the MNS remained absent.
 
 Uddhav along with wife Rashmi and sons Aaditya and Tejas entered the civic body headquarters after the polls to felicitate the winners.
 
 BJP leader in the BMC Manoj Kotak said BJP corporators had voted for the Sena to avoid political instability. Aaditya Thackeray, tweeting later in the day, taunted the BJP saying, “Through all possible clean, principles mathematical calculations, it was going to be a   Mayor, Deputy Mayor this time. Yet we thank all who helped us knowingly, unknowingly. Especially those who voted mayoral candidate without us asking or negotiating for it.” 
 
 Members of all the statutory panels were also announced at the civic house whose proceedings went on for more than six hours on Wednesday. Many old hands in the BMC like Rajul Patel and Ashish Chemburkar were seen returning to crucial panels such as the standing committee, while the BJP was seen bringing in experienced corporators like former deputy mayor Alka Kerkar as well as new hands like Parag Shah, who is popular for being the richest candidate in the BMC elections, having declared assets worth Rs 690 crore. 
 
 
