Trichy: Hundreds of women in  , Pudukkottai district, who are against the proposed hydrocarbon exploration project, conducted a mock protest, singing funeral songs to mourn the ill-effects of the project, as the protests entered the 19th day on Monday.

 Members of the protesting committee have decided to meet the concerned union minister, to make an appeal against the project. As per their earlier resolution to intensify the protests, a large number of elderly women gathered together and sang ‘Opparis’ (funeral songs) portraying the ill-effects of the project. The women also performed ‘Kummi Paattu’ (Folk song sung with the clap of hands). They also lit earthen lamps at the protest spot.
 
 A total of 14 students including girls from National Law School in Trichy have camped at Neduvasal for the third consecutive day on Monday to express their solidarity with the protesters. People from 30 villages in and around Peravurani in Thanjavur district arrived in Nallandarkollai to show their support. Traders from Seruvaviduthi hamlet, located 5 kilometers away from Neduvasal, downed their shutters on Monday to express their support to the agitating villagers. 
 
 Teachers from across the district came to the protest spot and spoke about how the environment would be negatively impacted if the project was executed. Subramanian, a professor from Chennai and Ganesan, a teacher from Anavayal also spoke to the villagers about the project. A group of 15 differently-abled people arrived there in their special scooters to support the protesters.
 
 While residents of Kottaikadu had called off their protest following talks with the district collector S Ganesh, residents of Nallandarkollai continued to protest. Villagers from Vadakadu, who had joined the protest on Sunday, continued their protest for the second consecutive day, demanding to the closure of a bore well that had been dug on fertile land.
 
 Meanwhile, the protesting committee has decided to meet Prime Minister Modi and Dharmendra Pradhan, minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas. 
 
 
