NEW DELHI: From next month, you will no longer to be able to drive to  . The middle and inner circles of the iconic market will turn into an exclusive pedestrian zone for a three month period starting February, under a pilot project aimed at addressing congestion in the area.

 A meeting chaired by Union urban development minister M   on Thursday okayed the plan, under which people driving to CP will park at designated slots at Shivaji Stadium, Baba Kharak Singh Marg and Palika, and take a free shuttle service to the market.
 
 
 
 
 A UD ministry official said the pilot project will test changes in traffic circulation after pedestrianisation of CP.
 
 "It would also study the experience of pedestrians and shop owners, management of reclaimed parking lots and the traffic load on the outer circle," the official said. He added that Naidu had directed officials to ensure that CP is made "congestion-free, accident-free and crime-free".
 
 According to estimates, 3,172 cars can be accommodated at parking lots at Shivaji Stadium, Baba Kharak Singh Marg and Palika. But on an average only 1,088 vehicles are being parked.
 
 Police and NDMC officials have informed the ministry that the unutilised capacity could be fully used by promoting 'park and ride'. There will be cycles on hire and batteryoperated vehicles for shoppers and visitors to move around CP. Officials said if the traffic plan becomes permanent, it would free up space for landscaping and construction of water bodies to act as humidifiers in the walking zone.
 
 "There will also be sound and light shows, sidewalk cafes, public plazas and street festivals. The intention is to make CP a happening place," said an official who attended Thursday's meeting.
 
 Sources said issues such as pedestrian safety, the possibility of hawkers taking over old parking lots, the fear of traders and shop owners that they would lose business and concerns over increase in traffic on the Outer Circle were being addressed to make the initiative successful. Studies have shown that business area and the volume of trade had increased after the   was pedestrianised. "If the CP experiment is successful, the minister is keen to follow this model in other cities," a ministry official said. Pedestrianisation of CP is one of the key components of NDMC's   project. 
 
 According to ministry officials, NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar had assured Naidu that the results of the smart city initiatives could be visible on ground in four to five months.
 
 Kumar has said work on strengthening of smart energy grid network would begin next month and that on automatic metering with automatic demand response and Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition in March this year. An MoU is being finalised with MTNL for introducing Wi-Fi services in NDMC areas.
 
