Kolkata: With the meeting between the truckers and the officials of Insurance Regulatory Development Authority ( ) falling through, markets of the city have gone into a tizzy. The truckers have gone on strike with the demand of rollback of the insurance premium hike. There is already a shortfall and the demand-supply gap will be widening in coming days, triggering an unprecedented price-rise of commodities, market sources feared.

 The prices of vegetable, fish, chicken and egg have started soaring in the city market on Monday due to the goods transporters’ strike that enters third day in Kolkata and Bengal. In southern India, however, the truckers’ strike continued for the fifth day, leaving a yawning gap between the demand and supply of fish, chicken and egg in Kolkata. Bulk of Bengal’s popular protein supplement comes from southern states like   and Tamil Nadu.
 
 Since the truckers of southern states have gone on strike a couple of days earlier than those of rest in the countries, the impact is higher. The chicken retail price, which plunged to Rs 150 per kg, has again soared to Rs 180 per kg on Monday. But price should have been below Rs 150 around this time, said Md Saifuddin of Poultry Range of New Market. With supply remaining 30% less than the demand, the price is expected to soar further. The retail fish price rose by Rs 30 per kg across all varieties. The wholesale egg price rose from Rs 3.60 to 4.20 (per piece)
 
  Truck Operators’ Association president Mahinder Singh Gill said, “After three hours of discussion, IRDA asked us to withdraw the strike and only then they would consider anything. After this obstinacy by IRDA, we did not have much to say. So, we decided to carry on the strike. We know our strike puts common people in trouble. But our survival is at stake.”
 
 There are very few trucks transporting goods. But they are charging a premium. The truck, which would demand Rs 2,500 to carry goods is now charging Rs 4,000. Since only a handful of trucks are operating, suppliers don’t have many option. Some traders have tried to bring goods by trains. But booking space for goods is a serious issue, said Barrackpore-based Gour Mondal, a vegetable supplier to the city’s wholesale market.
 
 “The truckers’ strike proved a second deadly blow to farmers. During demonetisation, each farmer suffered severe monetary loss. Now, after a good crop, farmers are now again making distress sale fearing that crop will again rot in the field. This is the reason why the higher transportation cost has not had such sharp impact,” said Kamal Dey of Koley Market.
 
