BENGALURU: In the biggest ever haul of amphetamine by   at   (KIA), sleuths have recovered 1.64 kg of the contraband worth over Rs 64 lakh from a   who was smuggling it in the guise of manure.

 Fathima Azeeka Junaideen, 39, was intercepted in the early hours of Saturday when she was to take a connecting flight to Colombo after landing at KIA on Friday on a   flight from Chennai. 
 
 “Acting on specific information of drugs being smuggled to Colombo through Bengaluru, we carried out detailed checks of passengers travelling to the island nation from here,” said an officer attached to the Air Intelligence Unit at KIA.
 
 While combing Fathima’s check-in luggage, the sleuths were surprised to find many green colour sachets of plant manure alongside 48 pairs of sandals. “Fathima, who claimed to be a beautician running a parlour in Colombo, gave unconvincing answers on why she was carrying so much manure. We opened all the packets to find powdered amphetamine laced with a bit of hashish,” the officer added.
 
 A lab test established the 1.64 kg of contraband as amphetamine with traces of hashish. Fathima was a frequent flyer on the Colombo-Chennai sector. The Lankan pleaded ignorance by claiming that she was handed over the packets by an unidentified man in Chennai at the behest of her husband, who, investigators suspect, was orchestrating the drug smuggling from Sri Lanka.
 
 Fathima was produced before a city magistrate who remanded her in judicial custody. 
 
 Malaysian hid ketamine inside trolley bag
 
 Two days earlier, a Malaysian passenger was intercepted in KIA and found to be in possession of 2.05 kg of ketamine planted inside his trolley bag by creating a secret compartment using plywood.
 
 The Bengaluru zonal unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), on Thursday night, intercepted Gopalram who arrived at KIA to board a   flight to Colombo. The 58-year-old was intercepted before the immigration area and examination of his bag revealed a plywood bottom with the drug under it. 
 
 The Malaysian told sleuths that he had procured the contraband worth up to Rs 40 lakh from a dealer in Chennai and was carrying it to Kuala Lumpur from Bengaluru via Colombo. 
 
