PILIBHIT: Following the Yogi Aditya Nath government's decision to  ' loans, around 1.90 lakh marginal and small farmers of   will be benefitted. According to the records of district agriculture office, Pilibhit district has a total of 1,89,680 marginal farmers, who constitute 86.38% of the total farmers in the district, while there are 21,902 small farmers constituting 9.37% of the total farmer.
 According to  , the physical work on listing the names of farmers whose   amount is to be written off in NPA (non-performing assets) will be initiated as soon as the guidelines are issued by the state.
  Talking to TOI over the loan waiver scheme, the district development manager of NBARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development), S Dutta, said the cumulative figure of KCCs (Kisan Credit Card) in the district was equal to the total number of farmers’ families. “This indicates that all marginal and small farmers were having KCCs and were eligible to get benefit of loan waiver,” he said.
  On seeking reactions from targeted segments of farmers from all the seven blocks of the district, TOI did not find anyone who was not contented with the CM’s cabinet decision regarding waiving off crop loans.
  
  Though the state government's decision has been welcomed by most farmers in the district, some termed the ISS (interest subvention scheme) of prime minister as a drop in the ocean and a political move to fleece farmers. About 39,931 marginal and small farmers in the district have been found eligible to get benefit of interest subvention under ISS.
  On being asked about the ISS that was decided by the Union cabinet on January 24 this year to   for November and December on crop loans sought exclusively from cooperative banks by farmers between April 1 and September 30, 2016, the farmers stated that “the scheme will cover only a handful of farmers under the conditions of scheme and that the amount of relief would be negligible in comparison of loss to Rabi crops due to their retarded growth caused by inadequate application of fertilizers and other inputs to crops on account of demonetization.”
  
  NBARD manager S Dutta said a total of 39,931 farmers in the district had been found eligible to get the benefit, amounting to a total of Rs 82.84 lakh under ISS. “The average amount of interest per farmer to be waived under ISS in the district will be approximately Rs 207.45.” he said.
  
  According to an agricultural scientist of Krashi Vigyan Kendra, an unit of Sardar Ballabh Bhai Patel Agriculture University, Meerut, Shailendra Singh Dhaka, the deficient application of fertilizer in wheat crop at the time of sowing can reduce the production by up to 20%. He said that this could make marginal and small farmers bear the financial loss to the tune of Rs 16,500 per hectare on the basis of current year’s minimum support price.
  
