VIJAYAWADA: A staggering 9.5 degree Celsius deviation from the normal temperature around this time of the year was enough to leave the port town and Krishna district headquarters   puffing and panting on Thursday. The oppressive heat of 47.3 degree Celsius was unbearable for the residents as high humidity coupled with hot winds made their life miserable throughout the day. The night was no less torrid as the mercury hovered at 36-38 degrees. 

 In fact, Masula, which is what the locals call the port town, recorded the highest day temperature in the entire state for this season. This recording was a sharp increase from Wednesday's 44.5 degree Celsius. Weather doctors said there was a 9.5 degree Celsius deviation from the normal temperature around this time of the year. Incidentally, this was only 0.5 degree Celsius less than the highest temperature ever recorded in the buzzling town way back in 1868. 
 
 Not far away, Bapatla in Guntur district reminded people of a hot furnace as the town emerged as the second hottest place in AP for the day by recording 46.8 degree Celsius, 8.8 degrees more than the normal temperature. The highest temperature ever recorded at Bapatla was 47.4 degree Celsius in May 2003.
 
 Temporary capital city of AP - Vijayawada - was not far behind either. The metropolis in the making recorded a sizzling 46.6 degree Celsius, 6.6 degree Celsius more than the normal temperature. Ongole, Narsapur, Nellore and Kavali too saw temperatures rise above 45 degree Celsius owing to the intense heatwave conditions sweeping across the coastal region.
 
 In fact, severe heatwave conditions continued to ravage Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam for the third consecutive day on Thursday. With the Southwest monsoon further advancing into southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of east central Bay of Bengal, the low pressure continues to prevail over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh. This is causing hot and dry winds to gush towards the southern   district, leaving them dry and torrid, Met officials. 
 
 Due to clear skies, the temperatures are rising through late evenings, causing high precipitation levels in the nights, the officials added. According to the IMD, the heat wave will continue in the coastal   districts for another two days. The people were warned against venturing out between 12 pm and 4 pm.
 
 Meanwhile, the Rayalaseema districts witnessed showers at isolated places. Moderate rainfall was reported from Tirupati and Kurnool.
 
