Panaji: The   vote bank will play a decisive role in this election. While previous elections saw Goans criticizing a few politicians for fostering migrant vote banks in their constituencies, the 2017 elections has seen political parties not just make public overtures to migrants, but release election manifestos in their native language, and even allot some their party’s ticket.

 The largest number of migrant voters in Goa are Kannadigas, followed by Maharashtrians, and others from Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and other states in India, political parties say. 
 
 Former Karnataka chief minister and Karnataka state BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa visited the Vasco constituency a week ago, where he made a statement that there are at least 4 lakh Kannadigas in Goa and that migrant voters in Goa will play a crucial role in the election.
 
 “Yedyurappa may have got his figures right. Migrants are certainly a big vote bank, hence, the party’s decision to get Karnataka leaders to campaign in Goa,” a senior BJP leader told STOI.
 
 While previous elections saw migrant vote banks concentrated in Chimbel, Vasco, Cortalim, Moti Dongor in Margao, and Fukat Nagar in Mapusa, this election has seen the migrant vote bank spread across all constituencies in Goa, and are not restricted to pockets any more.
 
 The clout of the migrant vote bank was made known a couple of months before elections, when president of Akhil Goa Kannada Mahasangh (AKGM), Siddana Meti, demanded that national political parties allot tickets to migrants for at least two seats, failing which they would lend their support in favour of regional parties.
 
 Meti said that Kannadigas have their presence in all constituencies in Goa, from Pernem to Canacona. Goa Su-Raj Party, a regional party, which pledged a strong Goan sentiment for years, awarded its ticket, this year, to Sharan Meti in the Cortalim constituency, which has almost 12,000 Kannadiga voters. 
 
 The MGP, which also prides itself as a regional party, has allotted its ticket to Suman Sharma.
 
 In the week before elections, BJP central leader Ananth Kumar appealed to migrants in Vasco, while Union minister Venkaiah Naidu was brought in to appeal to migrants in the Porvorim constituency to vote for the Lotus symbol. Former chief minister Ravi Naik, who contested on the Congress ticket in the Ponda constituency, released his party’s manifesto in Kannada also. Congress has also roped in party leaders from Karnataka to campaign in constituencies across Goa.
 
 The AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Elvis Gomes was not far behind. While campaigning in New Vaddem in Vasco constituency, he opened his address by speaking in Kannada.
 
 Ironically, all the parties that are now falling over each other for the migrant vote, were part of an all-party delegation led by then chief minister and current defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who raised the issue of uncontrolled migration into Goa before then PM Manmohan Singh. The all-party delegation demanded that the Centre give Goa special status. ‘The apprehension is that Goans will become an alienated microscopic minority within their own state,’ the memorandum stated.
 
 
