MUMBAI: When he's not busy discussing the Supreme Court-mandated Justice RM Lodha Committee reforms with the general body of the Indian cricket board, he's part of a committee appointed by that general body studying the very reforms. When he's not busy attending the   ( ) governing council meetings, he's busy running the   (CAB). When he's not busy chairing the  's technical committee, he's busy selecting the Indian national team's new coach. Say hello to the omnipresent   - the busiest man in Indian cricket today.

 The list doesn't end. When he's not busy doing any of the above, Ganguly will be found doing commentary for a broadcaster or presenting expert views on television or attending the   meeting.
 
 "I can also apply for the position of India's coach provided I'm not an administrator," Ganguly recently told the media, when asked to comment on former Team India director   sending his application for the role.
 
 Less is more certainly doesn't apply to this Indian cricket great who's taken to the administration of the game like the fish takes to water.
 
 In another world, at a different hour, this kind of multi-tasking would've been seen as a matter of accomplishment in Indian cricket administration. But in the prevailing times, the moniker doesn't stick. "We understand that to be a major concern and roles need to be more definitive, largely because a pattern has to be set in the larger context. There's absolutely no disrespect towards Sourav, given his vast experience as a cricketer and a leader in the game. It's the syndrome that we're talking about," two individuals keenly involved with affairs of Indian cricket administration over the last few months told TOI.
 
 Ganguly's former teammate   is a case in point. In the middle of the hullabaloo over whether Dravid could've continued in the role of India's junior national coach while being a mentor to an IPL franchise, it was he who took the first step in sorting out the confusion. Dravid wrote a letter to the   (CoA) seeking clarity on his role and, in turn, provided the solution.
 
 "Sourav attended the MCC meeting earlier this week, is attending a meeting on Lodha reforms on 8th, sorting out coach applications on 9th, selecting the coach on 10th and will attend a governing council meeting soon ahead of the media rights tender coming out on 17th. Now, that's some responsibility he's handling," say those tracking developments.
 
 The single-most conflicted issue that's been pointed out time and again in Ganguly's CV as administrator is he being part of the IPL GC while being business partners with an industrialist who, until the 2017 IPL season, owned a franchise for two years. "It's a different matter that it can't be held against him now because Rising Pune Supergiant is out of IPL. But you can't write off the past," say sources.
 
 To be fair to Ganguly, he hasn't chosen most of these roles for himself, is neither getting paid for these services, and in fact has been diligent in attending all the aforesaid meetings so far.
 
 Yet, questions will be asked considering it has been the CoA's resolve to clarify what exactly constitutes conflict in Indian cricket. 
 
