It is the eve of 
 ) and one can tell this even by looking at the markets which are crowded with people and lit with lights of all colors! The celebration of these ‘nava ratris’ (nine nights) symbolizes the devotion and love which people have for Goddess Shakti, the supreme cosmic power! The goddess has various forms and manifests as Durga, Laxmi and Saraswati. Looking for the right words to convey your reverence for the goddess and your wishes to your dear ones.

 
 
 
 1. May the goddess Shakti bless you on this special festival of Navratri! I hope that on this special occasion, Dhan (Laxmi), Yash (Durga) and Samriddhi (Saraswati) come to your home… A very   to you and your family!
  
 2. ------------------
 ----------------------
 ----------------------
 These are my prayers which I did silently to ask goddess Shakti to bring you enlightenment, guidance and protection in all spheres of your life! I pray to her to bless you with whatever your desires are. Happy Navratri to you my dear one and to all your family members.
  
 3. This Navratri, I remember all the moments that we have spent together,
 As they stay in my heart forever!
 I pray to Mata Rani to bless you more than ever,
 As this Navratri is very special!
 I hope that you get blessed with love, luck, wisdom, fame, money and good fortune on this Navratri! May you have a glorious nine-day festival.
 
  
  
 
 4. As you are going to fast for the nine nights of Navratri, I hope that this fasting also helps you fast for lies, falsehood, lust, greed and sloth from your life! May this fasting enlighten you towards fasting against things that should not be a part of your life! A very happy Navratri to you friend! Jai Mata Di!
  
 5. Wishing you and your family a very happy and prosperous Navratri! May this Navratri be as beautiful and bright as ever. I hope it begets you joy, love, peace and wealth! I hope that the lights of Navratri lighten up your home and life. A very happy festival of nine holy nights to you and your family!
 
 
 
 6. Here I bring you the nine prasads of the festival of nine holy nights:
 1) Peace
 2) Power
 3) Patience
 4) Praise
 5) Repose
 6) Success
 7) Fame
 8) Disciple
 9) Health
 
 I hope that your life is filled with each one of these! May Mata Rani bless you with all the nine prasads on this Navratri. Jai Mata Di!
 
  
  
 
 7. Happy Navaratri to you and your family! Today I wish to Goddess Shakti to take away all your troubles and sorrows. I hope your life is filled with all the nine shades of happiness. I pray to Mata Rani to make all your wishes come true. God bless you! Jai Mata Di!
  
 8. May Maa Durga shower you and your family with all her 9 swaroopa:
 Name
 Fame
 Health
 Wealth
 Happiness
 Humanity
 Education
 Bhakti (Devotion)
 Shakti (Power)
 A very happy Navratri to you and your family!
  
 9. Where is this divine light glowing?
 From where the beautiful fragrance is coming?
 There’s a gentleness in the air
 There’s a warmth in the cold breeze
 The music falling into the ears is divine
 Seems like Mata Rani has come!
 Happy Navratri to all the devotees of the divine goddess!
 May you be blessed with wisdom, fortune and fame this Navratri!
  
 10. It is that time of the year again when all the bhakts of Mata Rani will be drenched in her love! We all will be intoxicated in her devotion and submerge in her beauty!
 Friends, it is time of love and mirth! It is the time of the lovers of goddess Durga, Saraswati and Laxmi! It is our time! Let us make beautiful memories together yet again.
 I hope that this Navratri be the harbinger of prosperity and joy for you and your family!
  
  
 11. Light the brightest diyas you have!
 Play sangeet that is divine!
 Decorate your homes with flowers and scents!
 Make the yummiest of meals and delicacies
 Dress up to celebrate the arrival of Mata Rani in our humble abodes!
 Dance, enjoy and celebrate!
 It is the time to revel in mirth & merrymaking!
 I wish you and your family a very happy, blissful and glorious Navratri!
  
 12. The time of dandiya and garba has arrived again! It is the blissful part of the year when Navratri brings along joy, love and merriment! I pray to Goddess Durga to bless each one with her love and exorcise all negativity from our lives. I hope that today onwards, you find love, peace and happiness in every path and may never find deceit, lust and greed ever! I hope that you have a glorious and blissful Navratri!
 
 
 
 
 
