PUNE: The   Rail Corporation is planning to take the city’s metro services to over 20 lakh commuters in the years to come.

 “Around 14% commuters in the city use the   now. This should increase to 55-60 % in future. A multi-modal public transport system centred around the metro will help us achieve the target,” Maha-Metro general manager Brijesh Dixit said on Wednesday.
 
 “Pune is far behind the global standards as far as the use of public transport is concerned. It is even behind Mumbai. The metro rail aims at improving the situation,” he said during an interaction session held by ‘Maharashtra Times’. 
 
 Metro officials have said the actual work on the Pune project is expected to begin from the end of April or in May. The topographical and geotechnical surveys for the corridors are almost complete, while the tendering process is on. 
 
 The work on corridor one between   and Swargate will start first. The ground work for the Vanaz-Ramwadi route is likely to start soon. On April 7, the Maha-Metro issued tenders to start work on the section between Vanaz corner and Shivajinagar godown.
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) officials have been claiming that they are unable to allot additional four Floor Space Index (FSI) in areas along the metro route, as they don’t have an official government resolution (GR). In his response, Dixit said the issue will be brought to the authorities’ notice. 
 
 “The issue primarily concerns the state government and the PMC. They should issue the notification fast. We will discuss the matter with them,” he said.
 
 The Union cabinet approved the first phase of the project in December 2016. It was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi the same month. The first phase of the project covers a distance of 31.254km over two corridors — Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation to Swargate covering a distance of 16.6km and Vanaz to Ramwadi (14.7km).
 
 The revised estimate announced by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation in June 2015 is pegged at Rs 11,522 crore, up from Rs 653 crore from the 2014 estimate.
 
