Nagpur: It took two burglars just 20 minutes to walk away with 68 tola gold, Rs60,000 in cash and other valuables totally worth more than Rs19 lakhs. After looting the house of the Kalyani family at the   on Thursday evening, they sped away in high-end car, which police are pointing out as a new trend in recent burglaries.

 The burglars had cleverly used a fake registration number on their car. The cops were initially happy that the number was noted down but in trying to find the owner it turned out to be a wild-goose chase. The number belonged to a car owned by a bank manager in Kalamna. On questioning him, cops learnt that he owned a different make of car and not the one that was used for the burglary.
 
 Police said one of the burglars entered the house by jumping over the boundary wall. The first thing he did was to remove the bulb outside the house so that the area remained in darkness. It was, however, the only clue in the case as cops have now found a fingerprint on it.
 
 Owner of the house Narayandas, a former assistant commissioner of employees’ provident fund (EPF) department, was returning home when he spotted an unidentified man with a bag jumping over the compound wall. He rushed towards a car which was parked close by. 
 
 The car, whose registration number was noted by Narayandas, sped away as soon as he sat in it. It took some time for Narayandas to realize that his house had been burgled as the front gate lock was still in tact.
 
 After viewing the   footage from the house of Narayandas’s a neighbour, cops said an accomplice was waiting in the car. Based on the footage, cops said the robbery took place between 7.25pm and 7.45pm. 
 
 The CCTV footage also captured the image of the man seated in the car. He could be seen handing over a rod or cutter-type gadget to his accomplice who had into the house. “It was the tool which was used to break the locks,” said police. 
 
 Narayandas and his wife  , who had left home at 6.15pm for the market, were in for a shock for a shock after entering their house. The rooms had been ransacked and the wooden almirahs forcibly opened.
 
 Narayandas’s son Ajay said the valuables were kept at home as there had been a series of marriages in the family since January this year. “My father and others had worked hard to collect the valuables over the years,” he said. 
 
 Ajay, who assists his father at their electrical shop at  , added that they never thought of installing CCTV in their house as they had been staying there for 20 incident-free years. 
 
 “We have a very trusted maid working with us for 17 years and another assistant who has been with my mother for eight years in her physiotherapy clinic on the first floor,” said Ajay who too was away with his wife Kanak when the incident took place.
 
 The Nandanvan police have registered an offence of burglary. The crime branch too has started a parallel probe in the case.
 
 Though the market value of the stolen gold is more than Rs19 lakhs, the cops have pegged the loss of the Kalyanis as per the old gold rate bringing it down to only Rs7.45 lakhs. 
 
