What connects Berlin, New York, Moscow, London and Sao Paulo? Did we hear airlines? No, the answer is   culture, which symbolises their artistic, social and political revolution. A large number of tourists at these cities take graffiti tours and scout different neighbourhoods to learn more about the pop culture. Closer home, where many graffiti paintings are dotting the city, Nagpur art enthusiasts are taking graffiti rides to discover their hometown’s street culture. Here’s more on the artistic tour…
There is no dearth of colourful graffiti featured on the city walls and artists here have depicted unique stories from the region through them. But now, these walls are attracting quite a few admirers from the city who are taking a bike ride to explore the street art. Elaborating on this, biking enthusiast Aniruddha Raich says, “Though we have several graffiti walls addressing many important issues, they are still unnoticed. People fail to understand that each wall has a story to tell. So to draw people’s attention towards this art, we decided to organise a   to discover the street art of Nagpur. We go to different locations across the city to appreciate these street art and understand its finer nuances. We are planning to organise such rides more often now.”
 One of the riders who was part of one such graffiti sojourn, Shakal Shukla adds, “We had carried cameras, notepad and our cellphones during the ride which started from Swami Vivekananda Smarak. We rode through different areas like Civil Lines, Pagal-Khana Square, the Zero Mile etc. and came across various walls highlighting graffiti on save girl child, farmer suicide and Nagpur’s skyline. In fact, we shall request collegians to paint graffiti in the city to highlight its biking culture 
 as well.”
 Along with being part of such fun expedition, to be able to come up-close with street culture, there are some who take to social media to share their tour experience and build a deep connect with artists across the globe. Doing just that is graffiti enthusiast Ankita Tewari who says, “We are posting pictures online to promote graffiti on Nagpur walls. In fact, many foreign artists have even showed their interest towards city’s street culture. As we share the information online, we exchange ideas as well as get insights on graffiti art of one another’s country.”
 
 
 
 
 Graffiti tour is an outdoor activity which aims at exploring different graffiti art around the city. Members who take part in these rides, learn about artworks and also share their experiences online. This fad is fast catching up among art lovers in Nagpur.
 
