PANAJI: A special investigation team (SIT) on Friday insisted custodial interrogation of former chief minister and Margao MLA   Kamat in the Rs 35,000 crore illegal   case, before a special court in Panaji. SIT also said Kamat is habitual offender.

 Kamat had filed for anticipatory bail in the illegal mining case and had to obtain interim relief from the court.
 
 SIT on Friday filed the police statement before the special court in Panaji. Police said “the investigation revealed that the accused is involved in the crime, having criminally conspired and committed illegalities in connivance with mines officials, then mines director Arvind Loliyenkar, then senior technical assistant A T D’Souza and others who allowed the grant of condonation of delay and renewals of mining lease in contravention of the laws in force and illegally extracted lakhs of metric tonnes of iron ore by causing environmental damage”.
 
 “The role of each accused and their actions need to be investigated and therefore their custody is very much essential, as the matter is of great public importance, both in terms of property, and also in terms of deprivation of revenue and natural resources, which belong to the state, in addition to its effect on bio diversity/environment in the state,” police said. 
 
 Police said that the accused, who had filed for anticipatory bail before the special court is required to be interrogated for his involvement in granting condonation delay for renewal of each title concessions .
 
 Police also said that “Kamat was found to be non-cooperative and gave unsatisfactory replies to even a simple question put forth during questioning conducted so far by the investigating officer” when he was summoned on two different occasions.
 
 “It has been revealed from the statement under Section 164 CrPC, J B Bhingue, the then director of mines, has clearly stated that he is receiving threating calls from various persons connected with the accused, who informed that the accused wanted to meet him with regards to the inquiry conducted,” police said, adding that this led to mental and physical stress for the witness, who had to be admitted to the hospital.
 
 Police said that “it is clearly evident that the mechanisms adopted by the politically influencial and financially strong accused can affect the investigation”.
 
