NEW DELHI: Delhi Police charged three men with the murder of a 29-year-old   teacher near   on May 21 last year. In the 250-page charge-sheet, the cops said on Thursday that Olivier Ketanda Masonda was bludgeoned to death during an argument over an autorickshaw near Kishangarh in south Delhi. Refuting that it was a racist attack, police said the violence was a spontaneous reaction to an angry exchange.

 Police had arrested three men for the murder,   and Prakash from a hideout near Mehrauli, and prime accused Mukesh from a village in UP.
 
 The charge-sheet said that Masonda had gone to Kishangarh with his friend Samuel to borrow money from a friend for his birthday party later that night. Police verified this fact with the money lender. On their way back, Masonda flagged down an auto-rickshaw, but three men standing nearby boarded it. “When Olivier objected, the men abused him,” a police officer quoted the charge-sheet as saying. “As Olivier retorted, they got off the auto and began thrashing him. The three men pushed Olivier to the ground and kicked him in the face and abdomen. One of the men then picked up a large stone from the roadside and hit Olivier on the head.”
 
 Samuel’s statement provided a crucial eyewitness account for the investigators, and it was backed by CCTV footage from a shop selling construction material at the spot. A passer-by who was beaten when he tried to help the Congolese also provided important testimony that was corroborated by CCTV footage. The victim’s mobile phone and the blood-stained stone used to smash his head were recovered as evidence from the spot.
 
 Masonda had been treated at a local hospital, and the doctor there confirmed to the cops that he had referred the injured man to  . The victim had died on the way there.
 
 The bike used by Saifi and Prakash was identified by two girls, who had been molested by the duo a few hours before the incident. Police said the statements of the women provided proof of the presence of the accused men in the area at the time the crime was committed.
 
