KOZHIKODE: The parents of  , the first year BTech student who was found hanging in the hostel of Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre at Pambady in Thrissur, last month, said that they would start an agitation before the secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram if the accused persons in the case are not arrested within the next two days.

 Speaking to mediapersons at their house at Valayam on Sunday, Jishnu's mother Mahija and father   said that they, along with other family members and local people, will start a sit-in before the secretariat after February 28.
 
 Mahija said that chief minister   should come to visit them only after the arrest of the accused persons in the case.
 
 “So much time has lapsed. Now if the chief minister is paying us a visit, he should come only after the arrest of the accused,“ Mahija said.
 
 She also demanded that a special team be constituted to nab the five accused in the case who have been absconding. Mahija had written an open letter to the chief minister on January 30 expressing pain and sadness that he didn't visit their house at Valayam to console the family. The chief minister had on last Friday said that he would be visi ting Jishnu's house soon adding that the delay in the visit was due to time constraints.
 
 “The police were able to nab the accused in the case involving abduction and assault of an actress in Kochi within two days. It has been 51days after I lost my son and no one has been arrested yet. The CM should act effectively to ensure that all the accused are arrested. That would be the biggest thing that can be done for my son,“ she said.
 
 Jishnu's father Ashokan said that he suspected that there was a conspiracy to prevent the arrest of the first accused, P  , who is the chairman and managing trustee of the   and Charitable Trust.
 
 All the five accused in the case, who have been charged with abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, forgery for the purpose of cheating and causing hurt are reportedly absconding.
 
