CHENNAI: If being late is being cool,   could be a contender for the coolest   in the country. It went hammer and tongs, on paper and at press ers, when Chennai was included in the Centre's smart city project. Promptly, and that was in September 2015 when 4G packs were costlier than power banks, it singled out T Nagar for a smart facelift. A   (SPV) to supervise execution of the project was commissioned in May 2016, and now, after a cyclone and a drought, the corporation is on course to miss all the deadlines related to the project.
Comparing Jaipur and Chennai, two smart cities chosen at the same time and given Rs 200 crore as grant for the project, will show how slow the corporation has been is in terms of execution. In the 13 months since both cities were named in the first batch of smart cities, Jaipur has set up a Wi-Fi network for Rs 104 crore, according to information from ministry of urban development. Chennai, on the other hand, it seems is relying on promotional 4G packs.
 
 The red tape holding back the project has been so strong that the Centre, said sources, had to shake the corporation off its slumber. According   sources, the second trial for the T Nagar pedestrian plaza held last Saturday was as a result of calls from New Delhi. The situation is not helped by the fact that the SPV has not functioned since its constitution.
 
 “We will shortly appoint CEO, CFO and company secretary to the SPV ,“ has been the standard response from senior corporation officials since recruitment notices for these posts were released in October 2016.
 
 Sources say the political turmoil in the state since the untimely death of chief minister J Jayalalithaa in December last year has delayed the appointments. In the absence of the SPV , the corporation's engineers have been left with supervising the project.“For most of us, this is additional work on top of our routine,“ said an official.
 
 Officials maintain that things are moving in the background, but when it comes to   the proposals, there is no clarity. “The sustenance of the smart city model has not yet figured in any discussion so far,“ said a corporation source.
 
 This means that the corporation is not sure from where it can attract   for its smart city dream.
 
 “There is potential in the SPV . It now needs to be filled with competent people to ensure it is functional. Otherwise, it will turn out to be a case of another agency just wasting everybody's time,“ an official said.
 
