NAGPUR: Inconsistent annual rainfall since 1980 has affected natural processes of farming leading to poor quality of crops as well as reduced production, said activist and an expert on water conservation Datta  . He said the observation was based on national rainfall data compiled over 150 years which points at late arrival and early departure of monsoon. 

 Deshkar speaking on water conservation at a lecture ‘Jal Jagaran’ jointly organized by the Institute of Engineers Nagpur, North Ambazari Road, Rajaram Dixit Library, Bharatiya Jal Sansodhan Sanstha, Nagpur, Water Works Association Nagpur, Institute of Public Health Engineers, Nagpur, and Sinchan Sahayog, Nagpur, on Monday.
 
 “Changes in rainfall pattern adversely affect the harvesting of kharif and sowing of rabi crops which is usually in the month of September when the monsoon is supposed to end,” said Deshkar.
 
 “The amount of rainfall received per year is constant, however, the season which used to last for around 70 days now gets over within 30 to 35 days and crops are washed away in a single day’s incessant rainfall,” he added.
 
 Centralization of water conservation, which involves construction of dams and expensive irrigation project, conflicts with the basic idea of saving water since more resources and money needs to be spent to supply water to farmlands, said Deshkar.
 
 He added that   harvesting needs to be practised at grass-root level. “Even after spending crores only 10 to 12 % of rainwater is being harvested. If we manage to harvest 31% of rainwater, it can solve our country’s water problems. Using simple methods such as building underground tanks can go a long way,” he said.
 
 Deshkar cited water pollution as another major problem, which is “being neglected not just by the government by also by the general public”. Giving example of Singapore where 100% of waste water is treated and supplied to public, he said, “In Mumbai there are many source like   which can be used but instead contaminated water is dumped in the sea which is harming the ecosystem.” 
 
 
