Nagpur: The controversial proposal allowing drilling permission to Manganese Ore India Limited (MOIL) in Lanjhera in Bhandara division in the Pench-Nagzira-Navegaon tiger reserve corridor has been put on hold by the Regional Environment Committee (REC) of the MoEFCC. According to forest department sources, there is pressure on officials to grant drilling permission to MOIL in 2.180 hectare protected forest land to MOIL in Lanjhera. The area is a part of the 24.37 hectare forest proposed to be diverted for ore mining. Forest sources said the issue had figured in the REC meeting on September 11 & 18. TOI has reported how drilling and subsequently mining permission would prove detrimental for tigers.  There are authentic studies conducted by the forest department and wildlife NGOs about tiger presence. As per the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, the forest area also falls in the corridor of Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL). Forest department has been told to submit relevant documents in this regard. APCCF Kanwarjit Singh, who heads the REC, did not respond to TOI’s repeated calls. When contacted, one of the members, Suresh Chopne, said, “Tigers and their corridors are vital and must be saved. No minerals and mines are as important as our forest and tigers.” Chopne said, MoEFCC committee has not been submitted documents about the area falling in corridor. “If it is a corridor and studies are done, we will take an appropriate decision,” Chopne added. Earlier, NGOs from Bhandara and Gondia, in a letter to state government, have opposed mining move which will have devastating impact on tigers. Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA), Gondia, & Save Ecosystem and Tiger (SEAT), Bhandara, have done an extensive survey and monitoring in 2014 of the Pench-Nagzira corridor and have documented presence four individual tigers. As per Phase IV monitoring exercise conducted jointly by the forest department & Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT) in 2015, the Bawanthadi forest block has resident breeding tiger population. At least 9 adult tigers and 17 adult leopards were photo-captured during the camera-trapping exercise in this block.