NEW DELHI:  ,   and   are among 66 drug makers that have some of their products failing quality tests carried out by the country’s drug regulator.
 
  Samples tested from these companies were found to be not of standard quality during a drug survey carried out through the National Institute of Biologicals over two years, according to a Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) notification posted on its website. At least five samples of drugs from these companies failed the tests during the 2014-2016 survey,   said.
  
  According to the notification, 25 samples by Pfizer, nine each by Dr Reddy’s and Alembic, seven by Cipla and six by Zydus Healthcare were found to be not of standard quality. It didn’t specify the drugs that failed the tests.
  
  A Pfizer spokesperson said the company was unable to confirm authenticity of products picked for the tests, or the evidence of the alleged deficiencies “as the due process of providing a sealed market sample was not followed".
  
  
  Samples of the company's products were found to be fully compliant with all required specifications during tests at independent FDA-approved laboratories, the spokesperson said, adding that this was communicated to the regulatory authorities and no further action was recommended.
  
  “Pfizer places the utmost importance on product quality and patient safety. All Pfizer products released in the market meet every national and international testing specification,” the spokesperson said.
  
  Other companies ET contacted for comment did not respond until press time Friday.
  
  The survey, conducted to check the proportion of substandard drugs in the country, had tested 47,012 samples from 1,719 manufacturing units, CDSCO said. Around 3.16% of these samples were found to be not of standard quality, while 0.02% were spurious.
  
  India expects to bring down the proportion of its substandard drugs to 2% over the next three years to match global standards. The country’s drug regulator has been engaged in risk-based inspections of over 250 manufacturing plants as part of its efforts to achieve this goal.
