KOCHI: Noted   said the proposed   cannot be justified on technical grounds. Speaking on the sidelines of the 'Aanukaalikam' lecture series organized by   on Monday, he said that the project was not environmentally or economically viable. 

 "It is a gross violation of the   which are the custodians of those forests. The data provided by the state government on the  ,   and the water in the waterfalls is exaggerated," said the chairman of the   and Ecology Panel (WGEEP).
 
 Gadgil said that KSEB officials did not present and counter the data presented before the panel during its hearing. The Chalakudy-based NGO River Research Centre had made a presentation before WGEEP in the presence of KSEB officials. "They did not say a word though they were repeatedly asked to present their side," he added.
 
 "WGEEP's team did not find the proposed project as a viable one in 2010 and there is no reason to believe that the situation has changed now. Athirappilly is one of the last remaining low-level riverine forest with rich biodiversity," he said.
 
 When asked whether constructing of another dam or reservoir was a viable option amid drought and groundwater depletion, Gadgil said that it has been found that water supply to agriculture fields, municipalities have been affected in Maharashtra due to construction of many dams and reservoirs.
 
 Earlier, while delivering a lecture at the school of legal studies (SLS), he said that in a participatory democracy, it is the residents who have to take a call on the environment around them. It is ironical that authorities are still reluctant to resend the Plachimada Coca Cola Victims Relief and Compensation Claims Special Tribunal Bill passed by the assembly in 2011 for presidential assent.
 
 In his address, Cusat public relations and publications director S Anilkumar said the major reason for the massive environmental degradation in Kerala was due to the selfishness of its citizens. He alleged that Malayalis were not proactive when it came to protection of forest, wetland and water resources.
 
 Director of SLS P S Seema, B Ramachandran Nair of R Balagopal trust and Sajeesh B Panicker, chairman of the Cusat union spoke at the event. The lecture series will conclude on Thursday.
 
