Bhopal: Holding firm for a millennia, the dam on Upper Lake, which was built during Raja Bhoj’s reign, will get tested for its famed strength, again. Top German consultants are being flown into the city to carry out stress tests for new   that will connect Kamla Park to Reth Ghat.

 Cables of 220-metre bridge will rest on ground towards Reth Ghat and dam embankment. Two German consultants are already working on site and more will join them soon. Supporting pillars from the bridge will be dismantled and engineers are not taking any chance.
 
 As soon as concrete deck casting is finished, DSI-Bridgecon, private contractor will start stressing cables, which means adding more force to strands. This will slowly lift the bridge from scaffolding beneath the bridge. The stressing, divided into two stages, gives it better results. Between first and second stage stressing, all asphalt finishing works will be completed so that after second stage stressing the bridge will be ready to use, said an official.
 
 German engineers and consultants will arrive in the state capital over weekend to carry out stress test of the cable stay bridge built over the Upper Lake, says   Municipal Corporation ( ) city engineer OP Bhardwaj.
 
 Top German consultants will be on site for final stressing test of cable stay bridge likely to take place over weekend. “Minute deflections are being considered to get tolerance into equilibrium. A laser machine to align cables has been brought in from Germany,” he said.
 
 Main stressing test of the bridge will take place in three stages. Calculation and other team members of German company are set to arrive in next two days. The civic body expects inauguration of the by February.
 
 BRTS intersections at Reth Ghat, Shyamla petrol pump and Kilol Park crossing have been identified as parts in urgent need of redesign. It will be merger points for traffic from new flyovers at Kamla Park and Ginnori on two sides of the 1000-year-old dam.
 
 Trial run for the cable stay bridge, built at a cost of Rs 30 crore is expected in January. Traffic from the 220 metre one-way bridge would merge into intersection at Reth Ghat. Around two lakh vehicles pass through the route each day, which is the main approach road to international airport and connects Old Bhopal with the new part of the city.
 
 
