BENGALURU:  , who moved to Bengaluru seven months ago, said Bengaluru is still a beautiful, gentle city and its image has not been tarnished by recent incidents. "Stupid people do stupid things everywhere. There’s a lot going on in the US too.   so much culture. I love Bengaluru,” she said.

 On Saturday, around 100 men and women walked from   to Freedom Park as part of the   and signed a petition to the top cop of the state, demanding safer public spaces for women and children in the city. Many expatriates and NRIs raised awareness about gender sensitivity, rights of women and the need to end moral policing.
 
 The Kerns from Seattle joined the march to express their anger over derogatory statements made against women by US President Donald Trump during his election campaign. "It is an important issue, not just in India but in the US too. We were very affected by Trump’s remarks. Women’s rights are human rights too,” Marissa Kern said.
 
 Through the evening, men and women sang renditions of poems by Mamatha Sagar and Kabir that spoke of courage, love and  . The participants expressed anger against deeply rooted social evils that prompt mothers and aunts to bury their freedom under the dominating patriarchal society.
 
 Suhas Bhat, who was at the event, said, "Patriarchal influences have seeped into our consciousness. Change will take time but such events will bring change closer."
 
 The petition included many recommendations to ensure safe cities for women. These include stricter punishment for law-breakers and ease in registering complaints by creating a simpler complaint-redressal system, stop moral policing and compulsory gender sensitization for police, media and schools.
 
 Magsaysay Award winner Ruth Manorama said: "When men talk about women’s attire, I feel women are kind in not taking their pants off! We’re only asking for our rights and safety as citizens. Why is it so difficult for the government to ensure our safety?"
 
 Priyanka Srinivasa, an NRI who came back to the city for work, said, “When these incidents happen in any part of the country, we always tend to blame the migrant population for disrupting our social structure. That’s not fair.’’
 
 
 
 
 A class 7 student of Inventure Academy says judgement about clothing can lead to low self-esteem. Edited excerpts:
 
 Our clothes represent us, not define us. I like my shorts 10 inches above my knees, but other people don't. I don't have an issue baring my midriff, but other people do. Why is it that we have to dress the way other people want us to? 
 
 I don't see men being barred from wearing any type of clothing after their marriage. Secondly, when you make comments on a woman's dress sense, her self-esteem drops. Three of five women in India feel insecure about stepping out alone on the streets in India. Four of five rapists first justify their action by saying the victim was wearing “provocative” clothes. Why do we as a society not have an issue with this?
 
 Girls have lost respect for people who mean so much to us. Every time you judge us for what we're wearing, it makes us feel as if all you see are our clothes. Are we really nothing more than what we wear? You need to help us believe in our choices; we can't feel useless anymore and, most importantly, we hate destroying relationships. All this has a single, root cause: Hate this discrimination based on clothing!
 
