MUMBAI: The   will be counting on a special duo to steer them to victory in the inaugural  ,   that is set to rock   this weekend. And that’s the brother-sister combination of Sam and  , who just happen to be the reigning  .

 Six teams, each comprising two boats marshalled by a pilot and navigator, will slug it out along a uniquely designed 5.2km course-on-water in this Union Internationale Motonautique (UIM) sanctioned event which organisers are hoping can help trigger a watersport tsunami of sorts across the country.
 
 In the case of the Coleman siblings, though, it didn’t take too long for them to get hooked to the sport of powerboat racing. And while it’s usually the younger sibling that tends to follow the older one’s lead, Sam and Daisy were an exception to the norm. “It was Daisy who introduced me to powerboating,” Sam, older to his sister by more than two and a half years, tells TOI as he narrates how Daisy was quick to master a sport she was introduced to during the final stages of her stint with the Royal Artillery.
 
 “She aced the training processes and went from being an absolute novice to any kind of boats to passing her Powerboat Level 2 and then her navigator’s training. The week after, she was racing one of the toughest offshore races we have in the UK, the Cowes-Poole-Cowes, and she managed to podium in her first event as a navigator,” says Sam.
 
 Daisy proudly adds: “From five or six of us, I was the only female (doing the navigator’s course) and the only one with no boating experience. And I got ridiculed throughout it. I was the butt of most jokes — in good jest. Then I was the only one to pass it on a Wednesday and on Saturday I was racing in Cowes-Poole-Cowes.”
 
 In Sam’s case, fate had a role to play in him getting the opportunity to make his professional powerboat racing debut in 2015 after one of the regular pilots got injured. Since then, there’s been no looking back for the 32-year-old. Following the retirement of former P1 SuperStock champion John Wilson, Sam took over the pilot’s role for Pertemps at the start of the 2016 season. With his younger sister as navigator, the Welsh duo managed to win the championship at first-go. “In the racing world, you work out a language between each other that works, which is very good for us being brother and sister. It’s easy to understand each other,” Sam says.
 
 But given how intense it can get during competition, have they ever had any heated moments in the cockpit? “Once we had a big heated discussion in the boat but much of the time it’s fine,” Sam says with a laugh as he makes it clear who is really the boss on board. “Daisy is in charge in the boat. Her interpretation of where all the competitors are dictates what we do in the boat. I’m just a puppet with a pedal and the steering wheel.”
 
 Both have to juggle full-time jobs with powerboat racing. Sam is a partner with the siblings’ parents who run a hotel in South West Wales while Daisy deals with big corporations as an IT consultant. But they unanimously state their preference between the two. “This is the job we prefer, the powerboat racing,” Sam says as Daisy adds: “We love this one, but the other one pays for this one.”
 
 
