THANE: The upscale high-rise societies on the developing Ghodbunder road seem to have assumed the role of the corporation in their ward, as they have been fulfilling most of the basic civic necessities in their vicinity themselves.

 From good roads, frequent civic transportation and proper waste management and sewage treatment facilities to good civic schools and health centres, the municipal corporation has failed to provide this 58,000-strong population with hardly any basic amenities or socially-essential infrastructure.
 
 While private enclaves including Hiranandani Estate and parts of Bramhand have taken up the responsibilities themselves, residents of parts including Waghbil village, Patlipada, etc., will have a list of demands from the candidates contesting for their votes in the upcoming elections.
 
 Contrary to the posh sections of this panel, Waghbil and Patlipada continue to have narrow roads with encroached footpaths, if any, barely any safety signage boards or public transport connectivity, civic schools with no libraries, unclean toilets, unkempt playgrounds and no public health centres. They, however, have four well-maintained gardens, two of which are situated in the vicinity of the commissioner’s bungalow, and one decent open gym for recreation. “The area around the commissioner’s bungalow is well maintained, but that is probably because it is in his area. The other garden here is maintained by the eatery in front of it,” said a resident here.
 
 Madhu Menon, president of Hiranandani Estate Residents’ Welfare Association (HERWA), said, “We have our own regular waste collection, segregation and disposal system and a sewage treatment plant, which provides water for the gardens of our area. Due to lack of transportation, we have our own buses and carpooling system. We also have good clean roads, wide hawker-free footpaths and ample safety signage boards.”
 
 “We do, however, depend on the corporation for basic amenities like drinking water. When there is a shortage, we get tankers. If the corporation keeps expecting us to provide for ourselves, what is the point of voting for a local representative?” asked Anshuman Jha, a resident of Bramhand.
 
 Sampada Saste, a resident of Patlipada, said, “Just because most of our ward is well-maintained by the societies, doesn’t mean all the others can do the same. We are dependent on the corporation for water and transport, and are waiting to see their promises as well as their excuses for not working in this area for the past five years.”
 
