KOTA: Initiatives in agriculture and farming taken by Rajasthan government are proving a boon for the farmers like Om Prakesh Patidar of Dhanwada village of Jhalawar district and Jai Prakesh Mali of Arjunpura village of   district.

 In May last year, Patidar was one of the members of progressive farmers’ group sent to Israel with state agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini. And what he learnt from there helped him develop a green house and use ‘sprinkle farming’.
 
 After returning from Israel, Patidar first developed a green house over an area of 4,000 square metres with 70% subsidy from the state government.
 
 In the first year, Patidar cultivated cucumber and the yield was 10 times more. He pocketed a profit of Rs 5 lakh from the yield.
 
 “Earlier in open field when I cultivated cucumber, the profit was merely Rs 50,000,” he said.
 
 When he saw Israeli farmers making huge profits despite scarcity of water, he also got inspired.
 
 “I made up mind to use the same techniques in my farmland,” he said.
 
 Besides cucumber, he cultivated vegetables in 10 bighas of land.
 
 He used mulching-sheet technology for cultivation of vegetables like ladyfinger, brinjal and chilli. The technique worked and his yield doubled.
 
 “Farming and horticulture schemes run by the state government proved a boon for me and my family,” Patidar said and added that all these have transformed his life.
 
 “My profit has gone up manifold after applying new farming techniques,” he gladly said.
 
 Global Rajasthan Agritech Meet (GRAM) – 2016 held at   in   was a turning point for Patidar.
 
 “I attended GRAM – 2016 with my MCA degree holder son who after examining the advanced techniques and methods in farming decided not to seek job but take up farming as profession. “Now the son is also engaged with me in agriculture work of the family,” he said.
 
 Another 35-year-old farmer Jai Prakesh Mali of Arjunpura village of Kota district is using advanced techniques like drip-sprinkle system for farming in his 24-bigha agricultural land.
 
 He now gets three to four times more yield of vegetables, groundnuts and soybean from drip–sprinkle system.
 
 “The cultivation of vegetables has now become an attractive work,” said Jai Prakesh, who also cultivates flowers in small beds on his agriculture land and had also received a district-level award in 2013-14 for the same.
 
 
