Bhopal: Happiness in Madhya Pradesh will be imported from Bhutan. Senior officials of the newly constituted happiness department in the state will visit the Himalayan kingdom in a few weeks to understand and study the happiness model prevalent there.

 Bhutan has a gross national happiness commission. Officials said it is imperative for them to visit Bhutan so as to understand the Bhutanese model and implement it here to achieve the objective of creating the happiness department, which is the first in the country.
 
 Officials have contacted the ambassador of Bhutan for the purpose and expressed their willingness to visit the country. Bhutan is willing to share its happiness model with the state.
 
 Officials said they planned to take the trip to Bhutan on March 6 and March 7, but due to administrative issues and lesser number of flights, the trip has been postponed for a few weeks. A four-member team is expected to visit Bhutan early next month.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has also increased the budget of the happiness department. It was Rs 2 crore when the department was constituted in July last year, which has been increased to Rs 4.75 crore in the budget passed recently.
 
 The happiness department is also in the process to set up its office in Bhopal. Officials said they will soon have a rented space in the Board Office complex.
 
 The director of the happiness department, Neeraj Vashishta, said “We would be analysing how significant the happiness model of Bhutan is in context of MP, though the Himalayan kingdom is sociologically different and its population is much lesser than our state.”
 
 Among the other initiatives taken by the happiness department, Vashishta said that spiritual leader the Dalai Lama will address the state assembly during his proposed visit to Bhopal on March 19.
 
 From January 14 to January 21, the happiness department has conducted traditional games such as kabaddi, wrestling, tug of war, cycling, spoon and sack race along with a host of cultural activities in various gram panchayats in the state to spread happiness.
 
 Bhutan, Venezuela, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have a ministry/department for happiness. The main objective of the department is to ensure “happiness in the lives of the common people.”
 
 The government has earlier stated that besides basic necessities such as roti, kapda aur makaan, (food, cloth and shelter) citizens need something more to be happy in their lives. A panel of experts will be formed in the newly-constituted department which will give suggestions to ensure happiness in the lives of the people.
 
 
