LOL! That was funny,” said my date with a poker face, as I cracked a classic in a bid to impress her. Unable to gauge her deadpan expression, I tried another one. This time, she returned an equally impassive ‘LMAO’. No, I’m serious! The next 30-odd minutes passed with me trying every trick in the book to get her to laugh, for real, in vain. I couldn’t hide my discontentment for long, thanks to her constant e-laughter (yep, that’s a thing apparently). So, I paid the bill and walked out, but not before saying, “GTG”.

 Cut to a coffee bar a day after. Utterly bored while waiting for a friend whom I was meeting after ages, I, like most ‘cool’ coffee shop frequenters of today, had my head buried in my cell phone’s screen. I was browsing through the WhatsApp conversations on various groups I was part of, and lo! they all involved a lot of ‘haha’s, ‘HAHAHA’s, ‘hehe’s, and wait… some more ‘LOL’s, ‘LUL’s and ‘LMAO’s. Sigh! Thankfully, my friend walked in and I pushed my phone back into the pocket, relieved to escape the world of e-laughing. But five minutes into a conversation and I was in for a jolt — my 30-something friend’s vocab was replete with the very lingo I was running away from — the straight-faced ‘LOL’s and ‘Lmao’s, without a hint of emotion in his eyes. Bummer!
 
 Now, that got me thinking. Who are these folks who say — and I mean say it out loud — ‘LOL’, when they should literally being ‘laughing out loud’? Is the good old, roaring-side-spliting-throaty laughter actually dead? 
 
 To put my curiosity to rest, I texted my 20-year-old sister to find out what she has to say. after all, she is just out of her teens and is a self-proclaimed expert in such matters. She texted me back an hour later with a “Hahajahajahjah”. Baffled, I called her, ‘Now, what’s with the ‘j’s in between the ‘haha’?,” I asked, worried if I’ve been living under an e-laughter rock, while the rest of the world ‘hajajajaaed’ away. Annoyed, she said, “See, you ask the dumbest questions...! That’s why I cracked up. And the ‘J’s? Oh, I was just too busy to type a proper laugh. Got it?” Bang! 
 
 ‘Type a proper laugh’? That sounded similar to my predicament, only my issue was with the real world; not the virtal one. Why isn’t anyone ‘laughing out a proper laugh’ — I was determined to find out.
 
 Rather than mulling over it with my limited e-laughing IQ, I decided to consult some experts. And that’s how I dialled Vasu Primlani. a stand-up comedian by profession, Vasu should surely have two-cents on this one, i reckoned. I went straight to the point — ‘What do you have to say about this ‘e-laughing in real world’ epidemic?’. 
 “You mean, saying ‘LOL’ instead of really laughing out loud at a joke?” she asked. Oh, so she was familiar with it. “Um, that’s like saying ‘aspirin’ when you have a headache instead of taking it,” she quipped, adding, “Laughter is a physical expression of an emotional state... Not some observation! But as lines between virtual and real blur, it’s all geting a lil’ mixed up I guess”. So what would she do when faced with LOLers and LMAOers in real life? “I don’t know. Maybe tell them something like ‘do yourselves a favour and laugh, for real!’,” she said.
 
 Vasu’s stamp of validation boosted my confidence. Now at least I know that I’m not merely some e-laughter noob; my observation was real, and valid. And Hyderabadi funny man   seconded me. “See, these are signs of a lazy generation. And it’s scary. When people interact using ‘LOLs’ and ‘ROFLs’, it’s not their minds which are interacting, but thumbs. I wonder if this is happening because the younger generation today is in too much of a hurry to actually feel and emote. May be ‘auto-responses’ are replacing real emotion,” said Anuj.
 
 Scary thought that! Imagine laughter clubs filled with ‘e-laughers’; they’d scream ‘LOL’ and ‘LMAO’ early in the morning at a park near you because, erm, laughter is the best medicine. Well what can I say to that but 
 ROFLMAO!
 
