GURUGRAM: Given his aversion to flying, it’s a wonder that   will be performing at all in India. Now, the renowned   and producer who is based out of Los Angeles, has decided to extend his tour.

 This chart topper, arena headliner and Grammy nominee had been pencilled in to perform at the Vh1 Supersonic 2017 festival in Pune but has now added Gurgaon to his itinerary. Prydz will be gigging in the city on February 12, at the HUDA grounds.
 
 Prydz is a master of techno, house, ‘progressive techno’ and ‘tech house’ – and variants of each of these EDM genres. 
 
 He burst into the public consciousness with the monster 2004 hit, ‘Call on Me’, a classic dancefloor mashup of Steve Winwood’s ‘Valerie’ (from back in the 1980s). He also remixed – to the horror of Floydheads – Pink Floyd’s ‘Another Brick in the Wall, Part 2’, calling it ‘Proper Education’, and remains the only turntable manipulator to have been given permission to sample a Floyd track.
 
 The 40-year-old, who also performs under the aliases of ‘Pryda’ and ‘Cirez D’, is as popular now with the mainstream as he is with loyalists of the underground. 
 
 He even has the privilege of having an EDM technique named after him – the ‘Pryda snare’, the call-to-attention compressed (and drawn-out) crash of the snare drum at the end of a bar that heralds the segue into a track’s next fragment. Prydz usually goes from show to show in a bus, or a train (and, on occasions, the odd cruise ship). 
 
 While he’ll be travelling to India by air, he’s likely to make his way from Pune to Delhi by train. Indeed, rail’s the best way to get a feel for the land, and it might even give him a few musical brainwaves for his next piece. 
 
 Prydz’s sets are something of a live spectacle, so EDM fans in the north of the country are in for a treat. 
 
 Prydz has done shows in front of many thousands, at venues as legendary as Madison Square Garden (New York) and Brixton Academy (London), but this is the first time he has scheduled tour dates in Asia. 
 
 And his sets are something of a live spectacle, so EDM fans in the north of the country are in for a treat.
 
 
