NEW DELHI: As Samajawadi Party appeared headed for a vertical split, its election   ‘cycle’ could be the first casualty, forcing the two factions — led by Akhilesh Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav — to contest the upcoming assembly polls on separate symbols. 

 After Sunday’s meet of the Akhilesh faction during which the CM was elected party chief, all eyes are now fixated on the ‘convention’ called by Mulayam on January 5 when it may be finally known whether the two sides will go for a split down the middle. With the   (EC) set to announce poll dates this week, there is a possibility of both factions approaching the EC as early as on Monday to lay claim to the party’s ‘cycle’ symbol, on which Akhilesh rode to power with thumping majority in 2012. 
 
 If the EC freezes the symbol, all efforts by the Akhilesh government to popularise the ‘cycle’ will go in vain. According to former chief election commissioner N Gopalaswami, the EC, while dealing with conflicting claims from two factions staking claim to the symbol, may end up allowing it to neither. 
 
 “Given that UP polls may be announced any day now, the EC is faced with a peculiar situation. In the normal course, the Commission would decide on the issue after properly hearing the claims of both factions, which usually is a time-consuming process. But given that there is virtually no time now before the UP polls, the best course of action for the EC may be to   the ‘cycle’ symbol for now and ask the two factions to contest on a new set of symbols. Once the elections are over, the EC may adjudicate as to which of the two factions should retain the ‘cycle’ poll symbol,” he told TOI. 
 
 “The EC has laid down certain criteria about party symbols... but if the commission is not able to decide, it can freeze the party symbol and allot other symbols to both the factions,” said PDT Achary, ex-secretary general of Lok Sabha. Achary said in view of the short window before the assembly polls, it will be difficult for the EC to decide so quickly. “Freezing of the SP symbol is quite possible,” he added. 
 
 “We shall approach the EC as Akhilesh has emerged our president as per norms. The party is united under him,” said an SP leader after Sunday’s meeting in Lucknow. 
 
 There are certain norms about allotting election symbol to a political party, but in case of disputes, precedence determines the fate of the claims. In 1969, Indira Gandhi formed a party of her own, named Congress (R). She tried to use the party’s symbol — Bullocks — for her new party, but due to an appeal from Congress (O), she was deprived of the traditional symbol. Indira finally chose ‘Cow and Calf ’. After conflict within Congress post Emergency, Indira once again split the party and floated Congress (I) with another symbol — ‘Hand’ (Panja). It is the party symbol till date.
 
