AHMEDABAD: Faced with a PIL demanding the shifting of the   due to its adverse effect on nearly 16,000 people in grip of the dump site’s pollution, the   has issued a veiled threat that it will evict people living within 500-metre of the 38 hectare landfill site. 

 Rather than go for immediate closure of Pirana, as demanded by the PIL, the   has submitted in court that it plans to evict affected families as they have illegal constructions. This puts the 2002-riots affected in double jeopardy, as they had been rehabilitated near the dump site in 2002, and they cannot claim further rehabilitation according to AMC policy.
 
 A large chunk of people living within 500 metre of Pirana are 2002 riot victims from Naroda Patia and Naroda Gam and other areas. They live in a rehabilitation colony called Citizen Nagar and in Dhoraji Society, just a few metres from the 95 lakh-tonne dump mound.
 
 In its reply to the concern shown in the PIL about health of residents, AMC stated, “Upon inquiry, prima facie it is found by the estate department of the corporation that the above referred human habitats within 500 metre of the site are illegal, and without proper construction.” AMC said that it is scrutinizing the data and plans to initiate “appropriate procedure as contained under the law” with respect to such occupant. At least illegal occupants cannot claim any protection and no relief can be granted with respect to such illegal occupation. AMC also claimed to have redressed the grievances mentioned in the PIL. “Still, AMC is taking all care, at least to provide medical assistance to the people residing near the dumping site,” the civic body told the court. 
 
 AMC plans another dump site at Kamod village
 
 Ahmedabad: AMC has placed before court its plan for future management and closure of the Pirana site and of creating a new site near Kamod village, where it plans to acquire a huge chunk of land at Rs 60.52 crore. It has sought funds worth Rs 374.63 crore for the same. To manage the landfill site, AMC has planned a scientific way to dispose solid waste by roping in two companies to generate electricity. Out of 4,000 tonnes of solid waste generated daily, 2000 tonnes can be used in the project by end of 2018. AMC has also said that it has plans to contain the fire caused by methane gas in Pirana dump. It has promised to control the leachate created during rains by laying a pipeline for its disposal. The high court has been assured that disposal of solid waste in scientific manner would not create such garbage mounts further and the site would be managed according to rules.
 
 Further hearing kept in first week of April
 
 Ahmedabad: Petitioner Kaleem Siddiqui has complained in his PIL that the civic authorities have been releasing stray dogs near Pirana landfill site after catching them from across the city. AMC’s release of stray dogs in the area is designed to increase problems for pollution-affected residents, Siddiqui stated. In its reply, AMC has completely denied the allegation. It has said that it has inquired with its   (CNCD) department about the dog sterilization method, and it has been confirmed that they never release dogs in this area. AMC has supplied documents reflecting that stray dogs are not released in this area.The petitioner, however, has refused to buy AMC’s argument. “The problem is that AMC workers release stray dogs near Pirana site unofficially. By placing documents before the high court it can be proved on paper that dogs are not released in this area. We want the illegal practice to be stopped,” he said.
 
