MUMBAI: The   has ordered BEST to pay a compensation of around Rs 24 lakh to a youth who was left completely disabled after a bus hit the two-wheeler on which he was riding pillion in 2013. The biker was killed in the hit-and-run incident.

 The defence tried to pin part of the blame on the pillion rider-Jitendra Patil, who is 26 now -for not wearing a helmet, but the tribunal held that the BEST driver who fled from the scene was completely negligent as he did not make any attempt to even to help the injured or call the police. “It shows his conduct and guilty conscious. It is, therefore, a case of negligent driving of BEST bus causing accident and not a case of either composite or contributory negligence,“ the tribunal said.
 
 The application seeking compensation was filed by Patil's father in November 2013. Patil was working in a construction company at the time of the incident on October 2, 2013.
 
 The incident happened at 3.15 am on  , when Patil and his friend were on their way from   to Siddhivinayak Temple. The complaint alleged that the bus came from the opposite direction in high speed and was being driven rashly. The bus then rammed the bike causing both victims to fall. While both riders suffered grievous injuries, the bus fled. Cops rushed the injured to the hospital, where Patil survived and his friend died.
 
 Police traced the bus driver after examining footage of CCTV cameras in the area and arrested him. A chargesheet was filed against the driver.
 
 Patil told the tribunal the incident had shortened his life span and he has had to undergo severe mental agony and pain. He also said that his family had incurred heavy expenses in his treatment.
 
 The driver, however, denied the allegations. He claimed that he had slowed down before taking a right turn. It was then that the motorcyclist came from the opposite direction at an extremely high speed and in a rash and negligent manner and collided head on into the front, right side of the bus.He also claimed that a BEST departmental inquiry exonerated him.
 
 However, in his cross examination by the defence, the driver said he first saw the bike only when he heard the sound of the collision.
 
 The tribunal said that while there was nothing abnormal about the speed of the bike owing to the empty roads, it was the bus driver who was required to take precautions while negotiating the right turn. “Had the bus driven been taken proper care and precaution it was possible for him to avoid the untoward accident,“ the tribunal observed.
 
