NASHIK: A small act of kindness to save   has got city-based Nature Forever Society featured in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest ‘Mann Ki Baat’, to be aired on Sunday.

 Mohammad Dilawar, the founder president of  , funded by the  , is elated that his project has been recognized and mentioned by the PM. He has even sent a latter thanking him.
 
 During   on Sunday, Modi said, “As part of the 100th celebration, the Bohra community society launched a huge campaign to save sparrows under the aegis of Burhani Foundation. I had the opportunity to inaugurate it in March 2011 in Gujarat. Nearly 52,000 bird feeders were distributed to every nook and corner of the world. This effort also found a mention in the Guinness Book of World Records.”
 
 Dilawar began the sparrow movement in 2006 and has been working for the conservation of House Sparrows along with other common flora. The mission of the society is to involve as many citizens as possible in the conservation movement. 
 
 The dedication to help these tiny species motivated Dilawar to initiate World Sparrow Day in 2011. He even connected with people from across the world and started Sparrow Awards, which recognizes the commendable work done in the field of environmental conservation by non-professional conservationists. 
 
 For the awards, people from all over the country send their profiles on the positive transformation they have brought around them to NFS, which is scrutinized by a committee. The awards are given to around four people and an organisation. The first Sparrow Awards was held on March 20, 2011 to honour the unsung environment heroes who have been silently making a difference. 
 
 The awards have created quite a buzz around the world as many people send photos and stories of the conservation work they do.
 
 “Animals and birds in the urban and rural landscapes are suffering due to limited access to water bodies and shade due to massive felling of trees. The hot temperature and destruction of habitat is not helping birds cope with the summer,” said Dilawar.
 
 How to help: Dilawar said that homes, offices, resorts and government agencies could convert their balconies, gardens and open spaces into cool areas for the birds by placing a mud bird bath, creating a make-shift pond from a tub or putting a saucer with water to help the birds. Moreover, he said that experts have suggested on filling up a birdbath frequently with fresh water and scrubbing it when algae starts to form. 
 
 In case there is no bird bath, one can place a shallow and wide tub or saucers of water close to the ground and in the shade so that the water remains cool. Dilawar said, “Place fresh cut fruits for the birds and create small water puddles every day. In order to create awareness, people should talk about their initiatives on social media.”
 
