MUMBAI:   is in a happy space. Sure, he is not in the scheme of things as far as donning the India jersey goes, but he is enjoying his stints for Baroda and   on the domestic circuit. The 31-year-old is basking in the glory of his on-field exploits. The only time he gets ruffled, though, is when people tag him as a T20 player. “To tag me as a T20 specialist is unfair,“ he says.

 “If you look at the recent past, I have been pretty active and fairly successful on the domestic circuit. Four years ago, I had to battle a few injuries and had to miss out on an entire season. These things can happen to any one. When you are playing for so long, injuries are bound to happen. What people say is none of my concern. I am only asking people to be careful about what they say . It can be damaging because it can create a certain perception about a player.
 
 “I have had some issues with the  , but I have resolved those issues. Since then I have played the whole season. I have played the One-dayers, the T20s, Ranji Trophy . I have played everything and have bowled a lot of overs as well. Even then, if I am dubbed as an IPL to IPL player, it's unfortunate,“ Pathan, who picked up three important wickets in West Zone's eight wicket win in their   T20 tournament league game against North Zone at the Wankhede Stadium on Monday , adds. Talking about his performance on the day , Pathan says: “It is very important to get wickets under your belt.More so, when the match is being telecast live on TV . People are watching, the selectors are watching and if you are performing well, it helps a great deal to regain your confidence.“
 
 West Zone had lost their opening encounter against Central Zone on Sunday . And Pathan feels that the team did well to regroup and come out strongly against a formidable North Zone side.
 
 “Kotak (Sithanshu) bhai has done awonderful job. Luckily , the team guys (support staff) are really good. We all came together and discussed our shortcomings. Yes, we are not the best fielding side, but we still needed to give our best. That's what we did today . We took our catches, we had two direct hits to score run-outs. It was a totally different scenario than yesterday (Sunday). We talked about it and as professionals, we took the onus upon us to get better on the field. That was the main thing, to be a better fielding side. And obviously , the toss worked in our favour as well.“
 
 
