KOLKATA: Mayor   is now keen on building a   cutting through the heart of East Kolkata  , with 146 piers being planned in the ecologically fragile pocket.

 Months ago, a proposal was made to set up an amusement park at the Ramsar site. 
 
 The flyover project, which was apparently quietly mooted a year-and-a-half ago, has now reached an advanced stage with the alignment in place and detailed project report being prepared. Shocked to learn about the plan, ecologists and environmentalists vowed to fight it tooth and nail; quite understandably, because the proposed flyover threatened to destroy large swathes of the wetland that treated the city’s sewage for free, kept the cost of living in check with its produce of fish, vegetables and paddy and acted as a vital carbon sink for the entire region. The proposed 6.5-km flyover aimed to connect EM Bypass with Rajarhat Main Arterial Road. While one end of the elevated corridor would be near the Maa flyover ramp opposite the road to Dhapa, the other end would be near the Kolkata Gate in New Town, a source said. In between, it would cut through the wetland, with 146 concrete piers proposed to be built in the eco-sensitive pocket.
 
 According to Chatterjee, also the environment minister and   Wetlands Management Authority chairman, the flyover will considerably reduce commute time to the airport during the rush hour. He held a meeting on Wednesday with senior state officials, including additional chief secretary Debasish Sen and urban development secretary O S Meena, to discuss the hurdles faced by the plan. “This flyover is an absolute necessity for our city,” Chatterjee later told reporters. Going by the calculations made by government agencies, the proposed flyover will save nearly 30-minute transit time during the peak morning and evening rush hours. While 2km between Chingrihata and Nicco Park usually does witness huge snarls when techies tarvel to their offices at Sector V in   in the morning and return in the evening, ecologists pointed out the traffic flow was comparatively smoother on VIP Road, especially after the construction of the Keshtopur-Baguiati flyover. 
 
 Ecologist  , who has been associated with the wetlands for decades, said if the project did go through, it would be the final nail in the coffin, with over 60 bheris being already filled up. However, he is banking on the Ramsar committee and the ministry of environment and forests to shoot the proposal down. “It won’t be easy to encroach on an internationally acclaimed site with such impunity. The proposal has to be passed in the management action plan of EKW and then sent to the Centre for approval. The Centre has to send it to the Ramsar committee,” he said. 
 
 Bonani Kakkar of Public, whose PIL in 1992 against the erstwhile Left government’s proposal to build office towers in the wetland led to the judgement protecting it, said she would move court again to stop the “monstrous project”. 
 
