PANAJI: When the Women’s National   Championship was started in 1976, Goa were favourites to emerge champions but lost in the final against Bengal. The next year, Goa got its revenge at home, clobbering Bengal 3-0 in the final at Campal.
 
  India’s early national teams included captains from Goa like Yolanda de Sousa and Juliana Gurjao but since those glory days in the seventies and eighties, somehow, football never got the desired push. Indian football slipped and   footballers were left behind.
  
  In Goa, it’s been worse. While Manipur and other states have climbed the ladder steadily, Goa has hardly produced stars like in the past. The last Goan pair - Maymol Rocky and Blanca Barreto - to represent India was in 2003, until   ran the extra mile and broke into the senior team, giving the state an international after 14 long years.
  
  Last month, Michel was included in Sajid Dar’s side which took part in the AFC Asian Cup Qualifiers 2018 in South Korea. She didn’t get a game but the   girl should do well with the exposure.
  
  “It was a great experience. I got an opportunity to see top players who played at the World Cup. Got to learn many things from coach Sajid and assistant coach Maymol,” said Michel.
  India’s campaign in South Korea was disastrous. Up against higher-ranked opponents in the tournament - DPR Korea (0-8), Korea Republic (0-10), Uzbekistan (1-7), Hong Kong (2-0) - India came a cropper and will get another chance only in 2019.
  
  Apart from the campaign in South Korea, Michel has done well for herself. She was part of the FC Pune City squad for the Women’s Premier League (WPL), and although she was forced to give the Senior Nationals in Punjab a miss because of her final year examinations, she has plenty to look ahead.
  
  “I played in many competitions this year for the Goa University, futsal national games and WPL which helped me gain confidence. It changed my game. Individually I practice to keep myself fit but more important is competition,” said the student of Government College, Quepem.
  
  Competition, though, is limited, at least in Goa. The state did not have any club at the WPL and competitions for women are few and far between. Michel, though, will soldier on and can count on the support of Maymol Rocky, assistant coach with the national team.
  
  “Michel is very hardworking. She couldn’t take part in the recent senior nationals due to her examinations but we will surely track her performance next year and call her up for the national camp,” said Maymol.
  Michel is now busy grooming players at the Goa Football Development Council’s (GFDC) Navelim centre. She is developing too. For someone who has represented the state several times and was part of the India Under-19 team in the past, her goal now is to become an automatic choice with the national team.
