SECUNDERABAD: About 1,200 parents, have been forced to take long detours to drop their kids to schools in the   (SCB) limits, courtesy the  . What was earlier a 800 metre ride has turned into a minimum 8 km ride for many.

 Schools too are facing the brunt of the   with approach routes being cut off. Among the schools affected is Valerian High School, whose student strength has dipped after the closures. In a letter to  , the headmaster of the school, Mettu Johannes Reddy said children were facing a hard time because of an increase in their daily travel time.
 
 “Due to closure of the road, my school strength has come down from 2,200 to 841. Many parents have shifted their children to other schools,“ the headmaster told TOI. “Why can't you allow children to pass? What security threats do they pose?“ he asked. Children coming from Awal, Lothukunta, Bolaruam, Risala bazar, Venkatapuram and Sainikpuri are the worst hit because of detours, he said, adding that he had written to the defence minister because the decades-old institution was suffering.
 
 P Karthik Reddy, who lives in Bolarum, used to drop his 10year-old son to school in five minutes. But after a road which leads to Valerian High School was blocked, he was forced to shift his son to another school in Lothukunta. Eight-year-old Priyanka, who used to study in class II of Valerian school was also enrolled in another school, after Army blocked the school by constructing a 10-ft compound wall near Hanuman temple, her father K Dharma Rao said.
 
 Two other educational institutions, St Joseph School and Holy Family School in Trimulgherry have also been affected by the closure of roads.“The road closure has affected the local Holy Family Church too. On Sundays, 2,000 persons used to come to attend prayers, but now the number has come down to 500,“ said Bhushan Reddy , a resident of Karkhana.
 
 On February 14, the Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad is planning a protest march in Secunderabad. It has also written to Manohar Parrikar in this regard.
 
