
Police say the accused beat up the victim, her husband after which they lodged a complaint
 
 A   with the   is alleged to have   under the pretext of helping her fight a case against her husband.
 
 The complainant, a 35-year-old woman, who runs a beauty parlour, registered an FIR against Vikas Kisan Nagare (34) at Vishrantwandi police station, after the latter physically assaulted her and the husband while they were stepping out for some work on Friday. After this incident, the couple registered a complaint.
 
 In 2015, the complainant was having some problems with her husband and was fighting with him to the extent that he was not staying with her in their house. Just a few weeks prior to this, she met Nagare when she went to visit her brother at Sangamwadi. On her brother’s advice, she met Nagare, who promised to help her with the case.
 
 Once Nagare and she were introduced, he kept sending her WhatsApp messages and would often call her just to talk to her. According to the complainant’s statement, Nagare would often come to drop her home from her workplace and even meet her mother and that is how he got them to trust him.
 
 On August 20, 2015, Nagare called her up and told her that he was near her house and that he wanted to discuss some information regarding her husband so that they could send him a notice. When he reached her home at 9 pm, he first pretended to take all the required information from her and then started telling her about the issues that he too has with his wife. Soon after, he forced himself on her, raped her and then left. The incident had shocked the complainant and for a long time she did not tell anyone about it.
 
 Following this incident, he would often call up the victim and force her to be in a relationship with him. He also threatened her that if she did not get into a relationship with him, he would tell her husband about the case and set her on fire.
 
 He even started sending vulgar messages. Fed up of the torture, she finally managed to tell her husband everything. On Thursday, when her husband and she were going out, Nagare stopped them in their way and accused her of aborting four of the children conceived with him and started abusing her. When her husband intervened, Nagare then started hitting both of them. The couple immediately rushed to the police station to file a complaint.
 
 Karmalkar Takawale, senior police inspector of  , said, “We arrested Nagare on Thursday and produced him in the court on Friday. He has been granted five-day police custody in which we hope to know more about his intentions.”
 
 Nagare has been booked under sections 376, 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for rape, criminal intimidation and outraging a woman’s modesty.
 
