After shooting some portions of his upcoming film in the slum areas of Delhi,   is now in Gurgaon to can the last leg of the movie. Highlighting the issue of open defecation through his movie, Nila chose central Delhi's slum areas for shooting. But when it came to showing the ‘posh side' of the story, the filmmaker headed to Gurgaon. He says, "Gurgaon has the poshest schools with all the technology and facilities for children, and that was the demand of my story. So I came here. After shooting outdoors in 43-44 degrees temperature in Delhi, shooting here in the hall of this school is such a relief for the crew."

  
  
 
  In the scenes being shot in   in Gurgaon, Pichkoo, the central character of the film, explains to the urban class how they (slum dwellers) keep the homes of the rich clean, but they are the ones who are seen as dirty. Nila adds, "We are shooting a   scene here, the music for which is composed by Shankar Ehsaan Loy. The message of cleanliness and the divide which we create in our society is highlighted in this scene."
 
  
  The scenes were shot in the auditorium of a school in Gurgaon
 
 
  Nila says that while shooting the film he has learnt a lot more about Delhi. Before this film he was only aware of the beautiful part of the city, but now he knows the 'Mumbai side' of Delhi as well. When asked what is the 'Mumbai side', he said, "Less space, stinky, open drainage – all this is not in the Delhi we see daily, but in Mumbai, you can see poverty on the roads, it’s out there. I got a chance to see the Mumbai part of Delhi this time. This film is a case study for me."
 
  
  
 
  
  PIGGYBACKING ON THE DIRECTOR: Kid artists share a fun moment with Nila Madhab Panda
 
 
  The crew members who have worked with Nila before, told us that this project was the most difficult as some of them fell ill while shooting and a few were even admitted to the hospital. A crew member said, "When we found out that we’ll be doing our first indoor shoot in Gurgaon, we were so relieved. Almost 80% of the crew members fell ill while shooting in slum areas and even though we had two doctors with us, it wasn’t of much help."
 
  Pichkoo aka Mohak said, "I am so happy to come to this school and it is so much fun shooting here." The school students were happy to play a role in the movie even as part of the audience.
 
  
  
 
  
  GAI, MATKA, KUAN, HUT, WHAT ELSE? 
 
 
 
  
  FAKE AUDIENCE: A Broadway style sequence was shot at the Gurgaon school
 
 
  
  STEP UP: Nila explains a scene to child actors at the Gurgaon school
 
 
