In the latest episode of  ,   is ready for another challenge thrown on her by Uma. She is confused about how to make shakkar rot which she thinks is sugar roti (chappati made with sugar).
 
  She remembers the day when   had cooked moong dal ka halwa once and how it tasted so bad that everyone in their home was in splits over his cooking skills.
  
  Kanak doesn't want to go anything wrong this time and she thinks of getting the recipe from maasi sa. She quickly thinks of a way to impress maasi sa and goes to her room.
  
  She asks him to give her shakkar rot ki recipe for making it.. Maasi sa says she will never share anything with her and goes out of her room.
  
  Kanak then picks up a pillow and sings a song for maasi sa to try and impress her and seek forgiveness. She then recites a poem praising her maasi sa and asks her for forgiveness. Uma watches this and gets happy with this.
  
  Kanak tells her that the reason is that she is trying to please Uma and how if she fails in the four tests her husband will leave her forever.
  
  Elsewhere, Rani and Golu ae seen talking over phone and that she wants a griha parvesh at her sasural. She gets scared as Bhabho comes after her. He makes such an arrangement so that he can Rani a griha parvesh in her own house. He also asks his mother to perform the aarti so that Rani can work better. But both Rani and his mother end up fighting.
  
  At Kanak's home, Uma is busy making some ayurvedic medicines when Shiv comes over to show how he is wearing the gifts.
  
  
 
  
  Shiv tells Uma that how he keeps punishing his bhabhi (Kanak) and how she is a nice human being.
  
  A disappointed Kanak reaches the kitchen and starts preparing for the shakkar rot recipe. But it is shown that maasi sa did share her receipe with Kanak.
  
  Kanak gets ready to serve the shakkar rot to Uma and thinks that hope he likes it. This will ensure she will get Kanak Mishthan Bhandar soon.
  
  But on the other hand, Gabba sa comes over and informs Uma that Kanak Mishtan Bhandar's registration process can be completed before time. But Uma says no.
