PATNA:   were sold in five days at various makeshift stalls set up at   tent city. With large number of devotees visiting their stalls, sweet traders had reasons to smile.

 Abhay Shukla, a sweet trader, said over six quintals of ‘Silao khaja’ worth Rs 1 lakh were sold in his shop in just five days. “The ‘namkeen khaja’ was much in demand. I am fortunate to serve sweets of Bihar to the devotees,” Abhay said.
 
 Manjeet Singh, a Punjab trader, who is here to participate in  , said the ‘Silao khaja’ was simply awesome. “I will carry the sweets to home,” he added.
 
 Another trader, Mithlesh Kumar, sold sweets worth around Rs 1.20 lakh in just four days. “I sold over eight quintals of  . Devotes from Punjab savoured our sweets,” he added.
 
 One Ranbir Kumar sold over 200kg of Khagaria ‘peda’ worth over Rs 70,000. “Sikh devotees have placed orders for more sweets. Prakashotsava has provided us an opportunity to promote and sell sweets of Bihar,” he added.
 
 Varun Kumar, salesman of a sweet shop, said, “There is huge demand for ‘tilkut’ at our stall. We have already sold tilkuts worth around Rs 60,000.” Pankaj Kumar, salesman of a shop selling Maner ‘ladoo’, said they have done a business of Rs 40,000 so far. 
 
 Arjan Singh, a businessman from Amritsar, said he liked ‘gond ka ladoo’ the most. “I have purchased ‘gond ka ladoo’ in large quantity for my relatives back home,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, while traditional Bihar sweets were in high demand, the Sudha Dairy counter also did a brisk business. “The flavoured milk was much in demand,” said Brajendra Singh, who has put up Sudha stall at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 ARTISANS EARN OVER RS 3 LAKH:
 
 The thousands of Sikh devotees, who came to Patna to join the Prakashotsava celebrations, are not just returning with sweet memories, but also with Bihari handicrafts they purchased from the Gandhi Maidan tent city.
 
 The artisans, who put up different stalls on the Gandhi Maidan premises, earned over Rs 3 lakh in just five days. “This was a great opportunity for me to showcase my talent in front of people from all over the world. I earned around Rs 60,000 in the past few days by selling my products,” said Sushila Devi, the owner of one of the stalls. 
 
 Another stall owner, Dibya Rani Singh, earned Rs 70,000 by selling jute handicrafts to customers. She told TOI, “Jute products are light, easy to carry and affordable. Devotees from Punjab, who were here to celebrate Prakashotsava, were all praise for Bihar and its people.”
 
 Chhattisgarh resident Harpreet Kaur and Mumbai resident Rajdeep Singh, were seen buying jute products from one of the stalls on Thursday. They not only bought   for themselves, but also for their relatives.
 
