NAGPUR: In a bid empower students across the city in providing preliminary care and helping their schoolmates in case of emergency, the Nagpur chapter of Indian Society of Anaesthesiologist (ISA) has decided to train every school in   (CPR).

 A resuscitation kit will be distributed to every school, while the school staff will be trained to utilize it.
 
 The initiative is being taken by the new team of ISA, which was installed on Saturday. Dr Sheetal Dalal, associate professor at   and Hospital’s (IGGMCH) department of plastic surgery, took over as the new president. Dr Gauri Arora, consultant anaesthesiologist and director of Arora Hospital at Ramdaspeth, was chosen as the new secretary.
 
 The installation ceremony was held at Chitnavis Centre in Civil Lines. ISA national president Dr Bibhuti Bhushan Mishra was the chief guest, while Government Medical College and Hospital’s (GMCH) past professor and head of plastic surgery department Dr Satish Kale was the guest of honour.
 
 To initiate the project, a first-aid and resuscitation kit was handed over to  . Also, a chart on CPR was put up in the school bus as part of public awareness programme.
 
 Dr Dalal said, “Ambulances take around 20-30 minutes to arrive. But with this training, students can save someone’s life.”
 
 “In coming days, we will be distributing the kits to sick room of all the local schools, including corporation schools. CPR will be demonstrated to the students and teachers. We will target students between Class VII and X as they are little older and will be able to grasp CPR easily,” she said.
 
 “Charts providing information about CPR and how it is performed will also be put up in city buses,” she added.
 
 In the new team of ISA, Dr Sunita Lawange has taken over as the president elect, Dr Umesh Ramtani as the treasurer and Dr   as the clinical secretary. ‘E-sense’, an e-newsletter of ISA (Nagpur) was also released on the occasion. The installation ceremony was followed by ‘Dr N T Balankhe memorial lecture’, which was delivered by Dr Hemant Rahatekar.
 
 
