Panchkula: A scrap godown caught fire on Tuesday evening at Kundi village, near Sector 20 here. Thick black smoke covered the whole residential area soon after the fire and the fire tender officials took more than two hours to douse it.

 As per the information received from the fire department officials, at 3.45 pm, they received a call from some local residents of Sector 20 regarding the fire at Ganpati scrap godown in Kundi village and soon after a fire tender was rushed to the spot. On reaching there, fire department officials were faced with the problem of heavy smoke. Not wasting much time, they started the rescue operation and started spraying water. Soon, two more fire tenders, one with the capacity of 10,000lt and another with a capacity of 6,000lt were called and these managed to control the fire by 6.15pm.
 
 Fire station officer Shamsher Malik, told TOI that the fire was major and three fire tenders were rushed to control it. The reason behind the fire was not clear till now and the owner of the godown, Umesh Kumar, also stated that he also didin’t know the reason behind the fire. Malik said that, “More than 16,000lt of water was used to control the fire. Heavy smoke came out due to plastic bottles and cans lying in large quantity in the godown.”
 
 Umesh said that, “A loss of Rs 12-14 lakh wa reported and the fire took place due to a spark from a bidi thrown by some labourer who came to his shop to lift the scrap items. The fire turned into a major one within minutes.”
 
 BOX:
 
 Some cases of recent fires
 
 July 3: A major fire broke out in the bank square in Sector-17, Chandigarh. Eight fire tenders were called to douse it.
 
 May 16: 20 families were left homeless after their hutments were destroyed in a fire that broke out at 6.30 pm in Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar Colony, Phase VIII, Mohali.
 
 May 14: Around 40 computers and office cabins in a computer training institute were gutted in a fire in Sector 16, Panchkula.
 
 May 14: A fire incident was reported from the basement of a shop in Sector 7, Panchkula.
 
 May 14: A major fire broke out in the administration building of Panjab University in the early hours, destroying records of the accounts section, though no casualty was reported.
 
 May 1: Residents of Dadumajra were left choking after a major fire broke at the dumping ground, Chandigarh.
 
 April 10: A fire broke out at the garbage dumping ground in Dadu Majra, causing problems to residents living nearby and also for the staff at the Jaypee garbage processing plant in the vicinity.
 
 
