Chandrapur: Despite storage of water in Irai dam, Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) has committed to provide full quota of water reserved for drinking purpose to Chandrapur city. CSTPS officials claimed that measures are being undertaken to ensure that both city and thermal power plant successfully survive the water paucity till next monsoon.  There is meagre 34% of water stored in Irai dam, the main source of water supply for Chandrapur city and CSTPS. The district has received only 53% rainfall so far even as monsoon has started its withdrawal. With little chances of receiving any rain after September, both Chandrapur city and CSTPS may face severe water crisis in coming months. The current water level in Irai dam is at 204.075 metre with storage of 54.08 million meter cube (MMC). Alarmed Chandrapur Municipal Corporation has already demanded for closure of generation units in CSTPS to ensure supply of drinking water to city in coming months.  “CSTPS has meticulously planned the usage of water from the dam and is optimistic of surviving the crisis period of over eight months without any major losses. We are committed to provide full remaining quota of 10 MMC to Chandrapur city. Leftover water in the dam will be sufficient to pull through next eight months,” said Kishor Raut, who is the official spokesperson of CSTPS . While Chandrapur city gets 10 MMC water gradually, 10 MMC water is expected to be lost due to evaporation and percolation losses. “The remaining 34 MMC water, if used in a well planned manner, is sufficient for survival of power plants till next monsoon with no major losses,” he said. Raut informed that at present, with three units down for maintenance, the power plant needs around 4.8 MMC water per month. As these units are restored, the management has tactically planned the annual overhaul of three 500MW units during next three months.  “Unit no 5, 6 and 8 are planned to put down for month-long annual maintenance in October, November and December respectively. Gradual pull-off of the generation units and usage of recycled water from fly-ash bund and sewage treatment plant will help in reduction of water usage from dam,” he explained. A team headed by deputy chief engineer Ashtankar has planned the water management for coming crises period. The experience of handling similar water crisis in year 2010, too, is going to come handy in present crisis. “There is dead storage of 20 MMC in addition to present stock, which can be used after the available storage of 54 MMC is exhausted. The dead storage will need pumping from dam and purification before being used in plant,” Raut added.