NEW DELHI: When a 30-year-old businessman from Rohini in North Delhi was shot at on April 20, it left the police and his family puzzled as he appeared to have no enemies. Three weeks later, Delhi Police realised that he did indeed have a foe, but one related to his wife, not himself. 

 Vivek Kumar, 37, had been obsessively in love with the victim’s then unmarried wife since 2013. He had kept tabs on her in a chilling real-life enactment of the   starrer  , a movie he claimed to the cops to have watched over 20 times. After he mustered courage to tell her about his feelings in 2015, she snubbed him and told him never to contact her.
 
 Kumar’s passions got the better of him when the woman got married in December last year, and he decided to eliminate her husband. It was to make the woman his that he twice shot at her husband on February 4 and April, though the man survived both the attacks.
 
 When the cops were at his door on May 8, Kumar consumed around 30 sleeping pills to end his life and had to be taken to hospital. On Friday, DCP Rishi Pal said, “He has been arrested after his discharge from hospital.” Pal added that Kumar had confessed to crime and will be put on an identification parade, while remaining in police remand for questioning.
 
 With a blind case in hand, DCP Rishi Pal had asked  , SHO of Vijay Vihar police station, to lead the investigation. Ironically, the first lead came from Kumar himself. The   posted a letter to the woman’s parents claiming that their daughter’s husband could not be spared because he had his unfair to his sister and left her after getting her pregnant.
 
 The second lead came when the gunshot victim disclosed that he might have been shot also in February because he now recalled hearing a gunshot very close to him one night. As the police teams followed up on these clues, SHO Jain, intrigued that a man married just four months earlier had been attacked twice, changed the focus to his wife.
 
 The cops got a breakthrough in the case when they identified Kumar’s bike number from CCTV footage locating him near the house of the woman’s parents. Later, the woman also told cops that she had blocked his phone number two years ago for stalking her. The cops scanned the records of that number, and backed by enquiries in the woman’s workplace, they tracked Kumar to his west Delhi home.
 
