 was fondly called by many in cricket administrative circles as 'Dollar miya' for a good reason. In 1998, as the president of the International Cricket Council (ICC), Dalmiya devised the   KnockOut Trophy Wills International Cup (tobacco companies could sponsor sporting events those days). It was a global tournament much inferior in stature to a World Cup, but had enough potential to generate funds for a cash-starved cricket body.

 The aim was simple: Generate funds to help develop cricket in associate nations. Dalmiya's vision was to globalise a sport played only by a handful of countries. The inaugural edition held in Bangladesh's capital Dhaka, involved the eight top cricket-playing countries of the world.
 
 It's indeed ironic that about two decades later, as the eighth edition of the tournament kicks off in England from June 1, there is no West Indies; instead you have Bangladesh, who didn't play in their 'home' event because they weren't eligible, despite having qualified for the 1999 World Cup and winning the 1997 ICC Associates' Trophy.
 
 Sachin Tendulkar, then at the prime of his career, slammed 141 and then took 4-38 to single-handedly script India's 44-run win in the 'third quarterfinal' over Australia. That joy, however, was short-lived as they lost to Windies in the semis. The inaugural tournament remains the only major cricket triumph for South Africa, more famous for 'choking' at big times, crucially under Hansie Cronje, before he was sensationally named as the sport's leading match-fixer two years later.
 
 In 2000, re-christened as the ICC  , the format was changed from knockouts to league-play to enable top teams to stay longer. Hosted by Kenya, it saw the emergence of a young and fearless India, powered by the arrival of  . They reached the final, before being upset by a Chris Cairns-inspired New Zealand.
 
 Sri Lanka 2002 saw  's India, riding on youth and power, gallop all the way to the final, where they had to share honours with the hosts after the final was washed off. Even as India crashed out in the league stage in 2004 in England, the pair of West Indies tail-enders Courtney Browne and Ian Bradshaw provided a thrilling finale in a memorable, unbeaten 71-run partnership for the eighth wicket against England at the Oval.
 
 Things, however, had changed when a reluctant India hosted it in 2006. The   officials' main grudge now was that all the money from the event was flowing into the ICC coffers with India gaining little or nothing from it. Worse, the hosts were knocked out before the semis, reducing further interest to a zilch.
 
 By the time the next edition in South Africa in 2009, ODI cricket itself was struggling for existence with the advent of the faster-paced Twenty20. India again failed to reach last four, and a concerned ICC decided that the 2013 edition in England would be the last. At that point, the mandarins in the ICC seemed keen on a World Test championship in the hope to make Test cricket interesting and relevant.
 
 But that didn't work as India struggled badly in Tests in Australia and England in 2011-2012 and there was a fear that they make not even make the cut-off for the final four teams, or even six, for the Test championship. Without India, it would be difficult to find sponsors for a format where the TV ratings and crowd attendance were dwindling in most countries.
 
 It was in this scenario that MS Dhoni's India, already the ODI world champions in the 2011 tournament at home, won the Champions Trophy in England in 2013.
 
 The impact of this triumph was the survival of a tournament which many still feel is a niggling fixture in the calendar in this day and age where T20 cricket rules roost, a gruelling but wildly-followed 45-day IPL being a case in point.
 
 There are still many critics of the Champions Trophy in the Indian board. India is to host the 2021 edition, but if the ICC's proposed ODI league, designed to make bilateral ODI cricket more relevant, kicks off by 2019, then the future of the Champions Trophy will become uncertain.
 
 However, even though ODIs feel sort of 'old-fashioned' in the T20 age, few things do go in favour of this tournament. Unlike the World Cup, it's much shorter and crisper in duration - this edition will last 18 days - and pits only the top teams against each other.
 
 With tickets for the June 4 clash between India and Pakistan at Edgbaston being sold out within just half-hour, it tells you that this tournament may just live on.
 
 Interestingly, conceptualised to generate funds for newer cricket pastures, the Champions Trophy may just end up producing revenue which may be critical for the survival of some of the once-powerful but struggling cricketing centres like the West Indies and Pakistan, left in dire straits financially due to lack of international cricket at home.
 
 
 
 
 India coach  's suggestion to the BCCI, at the height of the recent tussle between the board and the ICC, that the team didn't want to boycott the event, gives a fair indication of how much it matters to the players. The Champions Trophy, as India skipper   said on eve of the team's departure, is more competitive than the WC, and clearly, every international cricketer worth his salt would want to be tested against the best.
 
