PATNA: The Bihar government on Thursday issued show-cause notices to around 18 DMs, asking them to explain whose permission had they taken to leave their HQ to be in Patna on February 26, when they formed a human chain outside the   in protest against the arrest of an IAS official in connection with a job scam.
 
  Two days after the arrest of   (BSSC)’s then chairman   for his alleged involvement in leakage of questions of a competitive examination, the Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association had held a meeting in Patna. Sources said the meeting went on for nearly six hours.
  
  After the meeting, the association members had gone to the Raj Bhawan. While a delegation called on governor  , the others formed a human chain outside. Their memorandum to the governor demanded a CBI probe into the BSSC paper leak, among other things.
  
  “The notice asks the addressee to explain within three days on whose permission s/he left the place of posting,” said a senior official in the general administration department, which has issued the notices.
  
  The notices haven’t come as a surprise as CM Nitish Kumar had said in the state assembly on February 28 that exemplary action would be taken on the agitation of the bureaucrats.
  
  A PIL in this regard has also been filed in the   by an advocate. The petition has raised the same points, on which the government has served the notices to the DMs.
  
  The government move has, however, further agitated the IAS Officers’ Association. “The government is trying to pick and choose bureaucrats to threaten them in order to weaken our protest. We will soon convene a meeting to chalk out our future course of action,” said an association functionary, who is a principal secretary-rank officer.
  
  Sources quoted the rules which require a DM to take formal permission from the divisional commissioner concerned if s/he has to leave the headquarters. “If the DMs had not taken permission to come to Patna on February 26, there is nothing wrong in the show-cause notices,” said V S Dubey, retired chief secretary of Bihar.
