Kolkata: KMRC (Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation), the executing agency of the East-West Metro (EWM), has heaved a sigh of relief with the impending amendment of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (AMASR) Act. 

 This will make an exception for public projects of national importance to happen in the protected zone of nationally protected monuments. Since the centrally funded EWM is a public project of national importance, the amendment will allow Afcons-Transtonnelstroy, the construction agency entrusted with job of under-river tunnel, to take the Metro tunnel till Mahakaran station on the east side of Lal Dighi.
 
 This is the most crucial step after the tunnel boring machine reaches the east bank of the Hooghly next month. The AMASR Act currently allows no construction in a 100m radius of such monuments. This rigidity has left a number of Metro projects in the country — including in Pune and Lucknow — suspended, causing huge time and cost overrun. However, the amendment is possibly most crucial for EWM — its alignment passes through the protected zones of three monuments — Magen David synagogue, Beth-el synagogue and Currency Building.
 
 The ministry of culture’s note for amendment suggests legal powers to the Centre with respect to new construction in protected zone by superceding existing bodies like the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and National Monuments’ Authority (NMA). This means the Centre will now decide which project can pass through the protected zones. Till now, both the ASI and NMA, expert arms of the MoC, have the mandate to regulate construction and threats within and around protected heritage sites, sources said.
 
 Unlike cut-and-cover method, the tunnel boring method is much safer, causing little or no distress to the old structures overground. During the cut-and-cover method (the construction method of North-South Metro), a lot of buildings on either side of the corridors suffered damage. 
 
 “The method adopted now by KMRC in constructing corridors will hardly cause any damage. Moreover, we have a superior mitigation programme after detailed building survey, with scope for zero damage,” said KMRC chief engineer B Deewanji.
 
 The amendment has provisions for proper mitigation methods to be adopted for every protected monuments. “Safeguarding the monuments have been given maximum importance, said an ASI official.
 
 
