DEHRADUN: The wait for the announcement of the   continued on Wednesday even as party insiders claimed that the contest had now narrowed down to two names,   and  . "It is now a choice between Rawat, a Thakur and Pant, a Brahmin. Much will depend on who becomes the UP CM. If a Thakur is anointed CM of UP, a Brahmin will get the chair in Uttarakhand, and vice versa," said a senior party functionary in the know of things. 

 Sources said that  , a Thakur and another contender for the post, was also still in the fray and chances of a dark horse like former CM Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, a Brahmin, could not be ruled out either.
 
  Party leaders and workers in Dehradun are now waiting for the arrival of central observers Narendra Singh Tomar and Saroj Pandey to conduct a meeting of elected MLAs. Both the observers are expected to arrive on Thursday and seek a consensus on the CM after which the picture is expected to be clear. They are also expected to discuss a host of issues including the probable members of the cabinet constituted by the new chief minister. "In normal course, the observers also get feedback about the prospective cabinet ministers and their expertise and acceptability in the state, and this feedback is thereafter given to the central leadership," said a senior   leader. 
 
  Meanwhile, throughout the day on Wednesday, party workers started assembling at the residences of both Rawat and Pant in Defence Colony and Vijay Colony in Dehradun respectively as speculations continued on who the central leadership would place its bet on. A senior BJP leader said that besides caste equations vis-a-vis UP, the central leadership might also weigh in poll equations in Himachal Pradesh, another Himalayan state which would go to the polls next year, which could influence the choice of the Uttarakhand CM. A few leaders though said that having got a massive mandate, the party should "avoid caste calculations and instead focus on nominating a competent candidate who has the ability to deliver on the vision of PM Modi for the state." 
 
 
