 Two days after a Patna court lifted its interim stay order, the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited ( ) on Thursday night asked RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son and state health and forests minister   and his firm   to hand over the operation, assets and materials of the petrol pump allotted to him on the Bypass road at   in Patna with immediate effect. The petrol pump was commissioned on February 27 this year.
 
  The BPCL, on June 16, terminated the petrol pump allotment to M/S Lara Automobiles on the grounds that Tej had furnished false information and concealed facts in his application in 2012. In pursuance of the court’s order, the BPCL letter stated that since the interim status quo order passed earlier by the respective court on June 16 was vacated on July 18, hence the termination letter for the petrol pump initially issued by it was being made effective.
  
  In its termination order, the BPCL stated that Tej, while applying for the licence, had attached a consent letter from M/S A K Infosystems to set up the petrol pump on its land, but actually the land had already been transferred by the firm to his elder brother and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. BPCL had also asked Tej on May 29 to explain how he was carrying out the obligations of the firm and simultaneously discharging the duty of a minister in Bihar government.
  
  M/S Lara Automobiles filed a title suit in a Patna civil court on June 8 challenging the BPCL’s May 29 show-cause notice. The district court on June 16 restrained the BPCL from taking any action over the termination issue till further directive. Finally, sub-judge Sachi Mishra on Wednesday vacated the temporary injunction order and referred the matter to an arbitrator under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act.
  
  Meanwhile, the BJP was quick to demand the resignation of Tej and his brother and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who has been booked by the CBI in a land-for-IRCTC hotels case during his father Lalu’s tenure as rail minister. “The cancellation of the petrol pump licence awarded to Tej Pratap and the CBI FIR lodged against Tejashwi should be enough grounds for CM Nitish Kumar to sack the two Lalu’s sons from his cabinet, if they do not resign,” senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI on Friday.
  
  Modi has also submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission demanding disqualification of Tej as Mahua MLA for withholding information in his affidavit in 2015 assembly election.
