PATNA: The ruling grand alliance legislators matched the BJP-led opposition in creating ruckus in the state assembly as well as in the council on Friday. 

 while trading charges against each other and demanding resignation of their rival party MLAs. However, the assembly managed to pass the   of Rs8,983.50 crore as third supplementary demand amid boycott by the BJP members in the post-lunch session.
  
  The BJP disrupted the House proceedings on the third consecutive day demanding suspension of state prohibition, excise and registration minister   for his ‘uncharitable’ remarks against PM Narendra Modi, while the JD(U)-RJD-Congress grand alliance demanded cancellation of membership of BJP MLA Ram Babu Prasad Gupta for using derogatory words against RJD MLA Faraz Fatmi on Thursday.
  
  The NDA has threatened to launch a statewide agitation on Mastan episode on Saturday.
  
  “The BJP MLA used foul language against Fatmi and his father M A A Fatmi on the assembly premises on Thursday. We have demanded from the Speaker to cancel his assembly membership as he has violated the rules governing the conduct of state legislators,” said Neeraj Kumar, RJD MLA from Barari in Katihar district.
  
  Fatmi also submitted a written complaint against Gupta to Speaker  , who assured him to look into the matter and take appropriate action in this regard. Both the Upper and Lower Houses had to be adjourned within a few minutes of the first half proceedings started owing to the pandemonium created by both sides.
  
  Defending the protest made by BJP on the Mastan episode, leader of opposition in the state assembly Prem Kumar said, “Chief minister   should explain why he is not taking any action against Mastan. Government is equally responsible to ensure smooth functioning of the House, but the ruling dispensation is creating ruckus on baseless issues.”
  
  Mastan had allegedly asked his supporters at a public meeting in his Amour constituency on February 22 to abuse PM Narendra Modi’s photo with shoes and slippers in protest against the  .
  
  The post-lunch sessions in both the Houses could not be held smoothly owing to the slugfest between the opposition and the ruling alliance. The sloganeering and pandemonium continued outside the House as well. While members of the BJP-led NDA sat on a dharna in the portico, the grand alliance legislators did the same on the lawn.
