New update to have breastfeeding and hijabi emoji as well as   characters.

 How would you like one day, to log on to social media and click on a breastfeeding mother emoji, to congratulate a new mommy? Or a headscarf clad woman while talking about hijab in international fashion? Or, to be able to represent yourself correctly through an emoji if you do not identify as a male or a female? If the prospect gets you excited, well, we have good news for you.   has released the final list of 2017’s emojis, which will be on your smartphones by the end of this year. Let’s take stock of the current scenario around us. Breastfeeding mums are being shamed. Muslim women are being attacked, both for choosing to wear, and choosing to not wear, a hijab. Queer people are being lynched for not identifying with traditional definitions of gender, and Nigerian students in India are being made victims of deep rooted racism. What better way to take a stance against this discriminations than through a lexicon that organically assimilates these issues into our everyday language! The journey of emojis, from being fun and cute, to being socially relevant, has been an interesting one. And, as Jeremy Burge, member of the Unicode Emoji Subcommitte says, “I don’t see why   can’t be both fun, and representative of society! In the end, emojis are a tool for communication and self-expression is part of that.”
 
 
 
 Let’s track back a little. When emojis were first introduced, they were a set of 176 monochrome icons created by Shigetaka Kurita for Japanese mobile carriers. Among these, only one, the restroom emoji, which comprised a generic man and woman symbol, had anything to do with gender. Then, in 2007, with a major technology breakthrough, mobile screens became high-res and more details were added to emojis. Thus, the police and the construction worker were made into male characters. And, not surprisingly, the characters receiving haircuts and messages were made into female characters. We do not need to spell out the problem in this pattern. Men do the ‘manly’ work. Women are dainty and spend time shopping and going to parlours.
 Thankfully, emojis have come a long way since. After the latest updates, our smartphones now have a female character for every male character, be it a police, a chef, a scientist or a firefighter. In fact, today we even have a female rockstar in accordance with a male one, that was created as a tribute to  ! But, as Paul D. Hunt writes in  , “Having an androgynous rockstar emoji would better capture the spirit of Bowie, IMO.” And with the next update, we will have gendered versions of fairies too!
 
 
 
 We couldn’t agree more. And we are totally overjoyed that the first steps in that direction has been taken. Gender neutral emojis — a child, an adult and an older adult — have made it to the final emoji list of 2017, alongside a breastfeeding woman, and a headscarf clad one. This is addition to fantasy characters like genies and merpersons, which come with various skin-tone support. Says Burge, “Personally, I feel that having more options is a good way to address issues of representation in emoji. By expanding the range to include more skin tones and more genders, there is a greater chance of most people being able to find an emoji that represents them in some way.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 When it comes to social acclimatisation, can emojis actually make a mark? For example, is it easier to talk about taboo issues, through pictorial representation, than through written language? And is there any chance these little pictorial personas will further the cause of inclusion? “It’s all very interesting,” says Sucheta Ghoshal, who is pursuing her Phd is social computing from Georgia Tech university, “The internet has always been a social element. If you refer to the declaration of independence of the cyberspace — the Internet Manifesto, it reads, ‘We are creating a world that all may enter without privilege or prejudice accorded by race, economic power, military force, or station of birth. We are creating a world where anyone, anywhere may express his or her beliefs, no matter how singular, without fear of being coerced into silence or conformity.’ However, we can not deny that online too, we have inherited much of the prejudices of society. Emojis are a fascinating reinvention of a form of narrative expression. The kind of expression that was known to humanity for the longest time — the basic way of communicating through graphics. But the thing is, as easy and intuitive graphical communication is, it also holds a lot of rhetoric power over people. And so, inclusion of racial representation, and other marginalised identities are a big deal, because it will get us to talk,” So, given this power of rhetoric, is it not inevitable that these emojis will cause controversies? “Yes, they will create controversies. But necessary ones,” Sucheta signs off.
 
 
 
 After the last update, many of us were overjoyed to see a female counterpart for each male emoji. Now we have representations of same sex relationships, families with same sex parents and single parents. While traditional gender roles were challenged by these, the upcoming update of introducing genderless characters is shattering stereotypes. The best part? Fantasy characters might also get gender neutral versions! Writes Burge, “Many of the new additions, like the genie, has the option for a base emoji, in addition to gendered versions. So, it is possible that a gender-ambiguous/gender-inclusive version could be shown.” Thus, with further updates, we might have genderless fairies and djins! Artist Raj Kamal Aich, who holds art workshops with kids regularly, lauds the positive step. “Emoji is a language. And the particular emojis, its vocabulary. So, just the way we have terms for the   people in English, we should also have that in emoji language. When we were kids, we were not even aware of an LGBTQA population. That’s because we were never exposed to it, either in person, or in concept. Today’s kids are a lot more aware. When you introduce ideas to them in their language, which fantasy does, they learn early and thus are immune to prejudices.”
 And if everything fails, we have the dinosaurs. For times when the reality becomes too much.
 
 
 
 Swati Moitra, associate professor of  , unabashedly welcomes the new emoji. “I would say that adding a hijab clad woman in the pantheon of familiar female figures serves to normalise the hijab clad woman, often in the eye of the storm. This is a welcome move.” The hijab, in recent times has seen a lot being said for and against it. The issue, always a delicate one, was added fuel to, when France decided to ban burkini. A sports giant received backlash for creating a line of headscarves for Muslim women in sports. On the other hand, hijab clad women walked international ramps and were hailed. However, it has a counter view point too. Says assistant professor Shafana Shaffi, “I know women who are proud to wear a hijab and also women being forced to wear one. I, for one, am not for a hijabi emoji, if it is to signify a Muslim woman. Because, that way, we should also have signifiers for every other religion. Can they come up with emojis for a Christian, Hindu, Parsi or Sikh woman without enforcing stereotypes? Hijab is a Muslim woman’s personal choice. What is there to ‘normalise’? Do we have to normalise a Sikhni's choice to wear a dupatta? Or a girl's wish to wear denims,” she asks.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 If you have not been living under a rock, you can not have missed the many times public breastfeeding made news in international media. Women’s right activists have scremed themselves hoarse, and yet, the taboo seems to hold its ground. It’s as if the word ‘breast’ itself can get an alarm bell going off somewhere. However, for the section of women, who do not give in to the taboos of breastfeeding, this emoji spells fun. Vaishali Gupta, a new mother, says, “It’s going to be fun to use. When someone texts me, ‘what’s up’ or ‘what’cha doing’ I can just reply, ‘the usual’ and put the breastfeeding emoji after that. You know, because that’s mostly the thing you are doing for the first few months as a mother!” Dr Sweta Shekhar, who is currently pregnant with her first baby, couldn’t agree more. “It’s a beautiful idea. The feeling of a new mother can’t be put into words. Breastfeeding is a natural part of this process. An emoji about that is definitely welcome!” she smiled. 
 
 
 
 
 Palms up in prayer 
 Exploding head 
 Swearing face 
 Vomiting face u Zombies 
 Giraffe 
 T-Rex
 
 
