NEW DELHI: A hired shooter killed an undertrial on the   premises on Saturday morning.

  were escorting Rajesh Durmut out of a vehicle when a person in the crowd walked up to him, pulled out a countrymade pistol and fired a round. Durmut tried to duck but the bullet hit him on his left shoulder and pierced his heart.
 
 The shooter, Mohit, then pulled out another pistol and tried to fire at the cops. However, the gun did not go off. He tried to flee but was caught. Durmut was allegedly a member of the Neetu Dabodia gang and was wanted in more than 16 cases of robbery, murder and dacoity. Police suspect that Mohit, who doesn’t have any criminal antecedents, was hired by a rival gang to kill Durmut.
 
 Satish, allegedly a member of the rival Neeraj Bawana gang, and Mohit had recced the court premises two days ago and followed the police vehicle from Haryana on Saturday, investigations reveal. The incident was reported around 11.30am.
 
 Police have recovered CCTV footage which shows Satish escaping after he saw Mohit cornered.
 
 “We found two weapons and some live rounds from his (Mohit’s) possession and have taken him into custody. It was found that he had come to the court along with Satish, who has managed to escape. A case of murder under Section 302 IPC has been registered against him,” DCP (Rohini) Rishipal said.
 
 During interrogation, Mohit claimed that he was a resident of Jhajjar and had met Satish through a common friend. Satish offered him some money, cigarettes and cannabis after which he agreed to shoot Rajesh. Police, however, believe that Mohit was trying to mislead them.
 
 He said that Satish had provided him with two pistols and asked him to shoot Durmut while he would wait nearby on his bike. Police say that the men had travelled from Jhajjar on a motorbike on Saturday morning.
 
 Durmut was rushed to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The bullet had pierced his heart and he died on the spot. Durmut was being produced in Rohini court in connection with a murder case registered in Bawana.
 
