BAREILLY: Days after the   announced its first list of candidates, rebellion in the party has erupted into a full-blown war. M P Arya, who was denied a ticket from Nawabganj constituency, on Saturday announced in a meeting with his supporters that he would not let the BJP win this seat. The party had given the ticket to Kesar Singh who had been expelled from the BSP. Similarly, BJP leaders of five constituencies who failed to get tickets have formed a committee, ‘Sangarsh Samiti’, which will decide in two days whether they will contest independently or work with allies to defeat the BJP candidates.
 
  Addressing his supporters at Nawabganj, Arya said, “Though the BJP denied a ticket to me, I will not contest elections independently. The party gave tickets to those who paid a big amount to a few leaders. A person who has several criminal cases against him has got the ticket in my place.” After his supporters started lamenting his declaration that he will not contest polls independently, Arya added, “However, I will not let the BJP win the Nawabganj seat and will work to defeat the party’s candidate from here.” 
  
  Arya’s declaration came a day after a ‘Sangharsh Samiti’ was formed with the aim to defeat BJP candidates. Aspirants who have been denied tickets in five assembly constituencies —Nawabganj, Bhojipura, Meerganj, Bithri Chainpur and Fareedpur — have come together under this committee to take on the BJP’s official candidates.
  
  Former MLA and mayor,  , who is also the chief of this committee said, “After Arya, candidates of the other four constituencies, after talking to their supporters, will take a call on whether they want to contest elections independently or want to support candidates of other parties. The final decision will be taken by Monday.”
  
  “A leader from Bithri Chainpur on Saturday met me and showed interest in contesting polls as an Independent candidate from Bithri Chainpur. However, we will take a final decision after taking views of other leaders and supporters in the area,” said Patel.
  
  Supporters of Prashant Patel, son of Subhash, burnt the effigy of Union minister and Bareilly MP   and sitting BJP MLA from Bareilly city, Rajesh Agarwal. The supporters were angry as Prashant failed to get the party ticket from Bhojipura seat.
  
  BJP district president Ravindra Rathore said, “I was not aware that Arya had announced that he will work to defeat the BJP. Some leaders have been making such announcements as they are dejected because they did not get tickets. However, their anger will be pacified soon and they will work for the welfare of the party as they are aware that the BJP will form the government in the state.”
