NASHIK: Farmers’ opposition to giving their land for the state government’s ambitious Nagpur-Mumbai   Super Communication   has become a major roadblock for the district administration.

 Only 50% of the target for the joint measurement of land to be acquired for the highway has been completed till the deadline of March 31. Undeterred by the opposition, the administration is determined to complete the process.
 
 “Farmers are being rendered landless. Why is the government bent on acquiring land in our taluka? We have given land for industrial areas, for SEZ, and then for widening the Nashik-Pune highway. Now again, we will lose our land for the highway,” Sanjay Warungase from Sinnar taluka said.
 
 Tribal   Hiraman Gavit in Igatpuri taluka said, “Igatpuri taluka is the land of dams and other projects. First, our land was acquired for dams, then for widening of roads and now for the highway. Can anybody tell us a place where we can do farming peacefully?”
 
 The administration is focusing on completing the joint measurement at the earliest. “We had already expedited the work seeking police support. We have so far completed 50% of the work and will do the remaining on war footing. The joint measurement has to be finished at the earliest so that the other works also get pace,” a senior officer from the revenue department said.
 
 Officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is constructing the road, are keen on getting the work done in Nashik sooner.
 
 “The work in all the districts is being carried out at a faster pace than at Nashik. We are bit concerned about it. We have now decided that the land be bought through negotiations centred around the prevailing market rates instead of land pooling,” senior officer from the MSRDC said. 
 
 Officials said the main reason for the resistance is over the benefits under the land-pooling scheme. “The benefits of land pooling, whether for developed and irrigated land in Nashik or lesser developed and arid land in Aurangabad – are the same. This is the bone of contention. The farmers are more willing to sell their land instead of pooling it,” an official said. 
 
 Considering the opposition, a committee headed by the district collector has been formed to decide on buying the land based on market rates, decide on increasing compensation up to 25% and close the deal. This is the solution that farmers in Thane are opting for and those in Nashik will also go for the same, the official said.
 
 
