THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: City corporation’s bad tryst with central schemes in terms of timely implementation continues in the case of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Two years after   was launched replacing JNNURM,   has recorded dismally poor percentage of progress of various projects being carried out under different sectors. 

 The financial progress of all schemes under water supply, sewerage and septage management, stormwater drainage, urban transport and green space and parks is zero even for projects that were approved in 2015-16. No tenders have either been floated or awarded for schemes envisaged under water supply, sewerage and septage management. The only nominal progress has been recorded under stormwater drainage. Six projects were launched in this sector covering a drainage network of 13.23km. 
 
 It also included cleaning and removing the silt and debris from the existing drain. Of the six projects, only two projects; construction of drain will the slab at   in Fort ward and construction of drain and covering slab in   road in Manikyavilakom ward have recorded 70% and 90% respectively. One of the works has not even started even after two years owing to local protests, while the other works are progressing at a slow pace.
 
 “The situation is bleak for corporation as the Union ministry has mandated that we need to achieve 50% physical progress for works awarded during 2015-16 and 50% completion of DPRs for projects approved during 2016-17 if the state annual action plan (SAAP) for 2017-18 needs to be approved. In the case of city corporation not even 10% has been recorded till now,” an official said.
 
 Under urban transport, the civic body had proposed improvements of Edapazahanji via Vazhuthacaud road pedestrian walkway. The file is still awaiting consent from PWD.
 
 The civic body, which needs consultancy to prepare DPRs for urban transport and stormwater drainage is still looking for clarity with regard to selection of consultant. As per the latest decision of state mission, corporation has been directed to choose a consultant from the list of empanelled agencies approved by LSG department. The corporation now needs DPRs to be prepared for water supply, sewage and stormwater drainage. 
 
 The works approved in 2015-16 have received administrative sanction but technical sanction is still pending. 
 
 The state mission has cited that a technical panel would now give technical sanction for projects under AMRUT instead of departments concerned. With three years for the project to conclude, the members of this panel are yet to be constituted. Mayor V K Prasanth has forwarded a letter to the state government recommending that works shall begin with each department concerned giving technical sanction. No decision has been made on this communication either. 
 
 It is cited that AMRUT is most likely to take the route of JNNURM during which the corporation was also slammed for poor utilisation status. “We need proper approval from the LSGD to get this going. The high-powered steering committee meeting scheduled next week is likely to take a favourable decision. Even then we won’t be left with much time,” sources said.
 
