Nagpur: Under its ‘Greening Maharashtra’ drive with 46 crore saplings over the next two years, the state government has also identified 20 rivers for one-kilometre-long plantations on both sides. With limitations on planting saplings on forest land, the focus is more on non-forest land. In 2018 monsoon, the government will plant 13 crore saplings while in 2019 the target will be 33 crore. In a bid to spread out the plantations, principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge has on September 13 written to water resources department (WRD) secretary IS Chahal to identify and inform how much land WRD can make available for riverside plantations. WRD has been told to submit details about suitable sites and area in hectares. Chahal was not available for comments. However, sources said Kharge has asked WRD to submit all details by September 30. In the first phase, 20 rivers have been identified for plantations. The rivers are Krishna, Panchganga, Bhima, Koyna, Kukdi, Ghod, Godavari, Tapi, Mula, Pravara, Girna, Sina, Terna, Manjra, Purna, Dudhna, Wardha, Bembla, Painganga, and Wainganga. Another reason to take up plantations along riversides is to ensure survival of the rivers themselves. The move is part of the strategy to support ‘Rivers Rally’, a campaign launched by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Coimbatore-based Isha Foundation across 16 states. The ‘Rivers Rally’ campaign was flagged off on September 3. During the launch of 4 crore plantation programme this year in Mumbai on July 1, even chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said that a massive plantation drive will be taken up along rivers with the help of Isha Foundation. Rivers, the most important sources of water, are facing a crisis. In just one generation, perennial rivers are turning seasonal. “Many smaller rivers have already vanished. If we do not act now, it will be too late,” said senior forest officials. Praveen Srivastava, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) for IT & Policy, said, “Though it is an age-old concept, tree plantation along riverside will be taken up in the state for the first time. Trees are also able to prevent stream bank erosion by anchoring the soil, keeping the banks stable, and excess sediment out of the stream. Buffers can even help mitigate flooding by absorbing and slowing down surface runoff.” The issue is one of the important agenda items at the ninth two-day forest conference to be attended by 65 officials from the state at Amravati on Friday. Most of the issues to be discussed revolve round setting up of nurseries, budget, Green Army registrations, protection of saplings, provisions of tree guards, and watering roadside plantations. This will be the first meet where forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, who started these conferences, will not be present.