VADODARA: In a gruesome reminder of 'Nirbhaya' rape case, two sisters -both minors -were abducted by a gang of 13 and gangraped in a moving vehicle as an act of revenge in the   of Dahod district.

 Police have arrested five persons, including the prime accused  , who subjected the girls to a nearly an hour-long ordeal in the presence of their father on Wednesday. Police said that they committed the brutality as the girls' brother had named Kumat in a bootlegging case. Their brother, who was nabbed for bootlegging last week by  , had revealed Baria's name to the cops as main supplier of the  .
 
 On Wednesday morning, Kumat came to the shop owned by the girls' father in Bhootpagla village in Mahindra Maxx along with Gopsing Sabur and seven others. Four others came on two motorcycles. They dragged the girls inside the jeep and when their father tried to intervene, they held him captive in the backseat of the vehicle and sped away .
 
 On their way, Baria asked others to rape the girls. The 15-year-old was first raped by Baria and then by three others even as they kept driving and made short stopovers in isolated jungle areas. The younger 13-year-old was then raped by two persons. The gang then dropped the girls and their father near Mandav village and threatened them of dire consequences. The ordeal lasted for about an hour from 9.30 am to 10.30 am, according to the complaint lodged by the girls' father. Some villagers, who had gathered on hearing the commotion when the girls were abducted, also went to trace the accused. But the crime had already been committed by then. Later, they spotted the girls and their father in Mandav and rushed them to the Devgadh Baria hospital.
 
 Devgadh Baria police subinspector B G Raval said that the girls were in a state of extreme shock and were unable to give their statement till Thursday afternoon. “A medical examination has been conducted and the results are awaited,“ said Raval.
 
 Police registered an offence and began searching for the accused and nabbed five of them by Thursday morning. Besides Baria, his brother Ganpat, Narvat Baria, Suresh Baria and Gopsing Bhema Baria, have been nabbed. All are residents of Fangia village.
 
 All senior district police officials including Abhay Chudasama, deputy Inspector General (DIG) Panchmahal range, Manoj Ninama, Dahod district superintendent of police (SP) and deputy SP SK Trivedi are also camping at Devgadh Baria.
 
