NEW DELHI: Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s three phones, which had gone missing from his room in the fire at   in   on Friday, have finally been located by the police. Fire officers said the phones were picked up by a fireman for keeping them safe and they have been handed over to the police.

 The sequence of events that unfolded during investigations show that Dhoni was alerted about the fire by a bellboy while he was having breakfast. The former captain of the Indian cricket team and 23 other players were asked to rush out of the building as smoke had already reached the rooms. Due to this, he couldn’t pick up his phones.
 
 Dhoni, in his complaint to the police, said that he subsequently shifted to a friend’s house in Vasant Kunj. His assistant, Vikas Hasija, and travel manager, Sandeep Phogat, went inside room number 937, where he had been staying since March 11, to collect his belongings.
 
 “My three phones — an iPhone 6 plus, a Reliance LYF and a new Lava phone — were missing from my room. My assistant informed a hotel staffer, Akash Hans, about it. Hans scanned the CCTV footage of the hotel, but found nothing helpful,” Dhoni said in his complaint. All of Dhoni’s belongings were found intact, except for the three phones. 
 
 “We registered an FIR under IPC Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) at Dwarka (south) police station after getting the complaint from Dhoni,” said DCP (southwest) Surender Kumar.
 
 During the probe, police finally zeroed in on the fireman who had gone inside the room to sanitise it. “He picked up the phones from the side table and kept them in his custody as he was unaware about their owner. When the cops contacted him, he gave the three phones to them,” Kumar said. The phones have been handed over to Dhoni and the fireman has been detained.
 
 “One of our firemen, Phool Singh, picked up the mobile phones from Dhoni’s room and kept them safely so that he could hand them over to the police later. However, as he was on leave on Saturday he thought about informing the police on Monday. Before he could do so, the police approached him and questioned him about the phones,” said Chief Fire Officer Atul Garg.
 
 
