JAIPUR: The mystery over the excavation of   at a village in Jankipura in Tonk has become deeper with the recovery of two coins and a terracotta bull dating back to Kushan dynasty and first century AD.

 The State Archaeology and   (SAMD) has prepared a report after examining 108 gold coins, recovered from the villagers till January 17, with images and inscriptions in Greek and Brahmi language.
 
 The report was prepared after the experts deciphered the Greek and Brahmi script as per international archaeological standards.
 
 Initial observations had found that the gold coins date back to the period of Gupta dynasty. However, the new study has revealed that 106 coins belong to the period of three Gupta emperors—Samudragupta (335-380 AD), Chandragupta II (380-415 AD) and Kumaragupta (415-455 AD)—while two were from the Kushan dynasty.
 
 Numismatists are puzzled and have not yet solved the mystery of how these gold coins, which are 500 years apart, have been found in one place.
 
 “The Kushan coins have an image of a king giving ‘ahauti’ (inflamable item) to the fire on one side. On the other side, there’s an image of Greek god and goddesses,” said Jafarullah Khan, circle superintendent, SAMD,  , who prepared the report. Inscriptions on the coin in Greek read: ‘Shao Nano Shao, Kanishka Kushan (Emperor of the emperor, Kanishka Kushan).
 
 The Gupta period coins have images of god and goddess, ‘veena’, peacock, chair, etc., and inscriptions in Brahmi language. “The rarest coin from the Gupta dynasty period is that of a goddess sitting on a chair with the hair falling down over the shoulder. She wears a sari. The words describe her as a goddess and speaks about independence and empowerment of women back then,” he said.
 
 “The excavation of coins, ranging from 1 AD to 5 AD, indicates that this place was used to hide accumulated wealth. However, it’s very early to say anything. But if our assumptions (which he refused to disclose) matches the established historical accounts of the region, we will share the path-breaking news with the world,” Khan claimed.
 
 These coins were accidentally discovered while mining granite in the village. Villagers from 20 villages had conducted private diggings for three months before the administration realized that an ancient treasure trove was being looted. The open loot of   started in September last year and lasted till the government took over control of the area in December 2016.
 
 Since then the local police has been on the job of recovering coins from villagers. An examination of the coins was undertaken at the Diggi police station by a team from the ASI, Rajasthan. The body examined all 108 coins recovered from villagers till January 17 this year and stated that two coins dated back to 3-4th century BC.
 
 New reports, however, say that the number of coins recovered from villagers has now jumped to 158 till March 1, but no confirmation has been received yet.
 
