NOIDA: A delegation of RWA federation met new authority Chairman and CEO Alok   on Friday (today) where three essential issues were brought to his notice. These include setting up of separate Maintenance / Municipal Division in authority, Solid Waste Management System and plans to curtail the Menace of Stray Dogs. "Tandon has assured resolution of these issues on priority," said A N Dhawan secretary general   ( ).

 Dhawan adds that regarding solid waste management, CEO Tandon informed that "quotations from 15 parties have been received and their presentations shall be arranged soon," said Dhawan.
 
 The RWA federation also handed over a letter of various working committees formed within FONRWA's executive council regarding the composition and distribution of work amongst them to H S   (CE) for easy coordination with sector RWAs.
 
 Both Tandon and Yadav assured to meet FONRWA executive committee office bearers in coming days for proper resolution of all civic issues.
 
 "We briefed CEO Tandon and Yadav regarding formation of our internal working committees. Yadav further issued directives to all project engineers to keep in touch with FONRWA working committees and resolve issues raised through them," said N P Singh, president FONRWA.
 
 Regarding problems relating to Jal and sewage, a detailed discussion with project engineer   is slated in coming days who in turn gave details of various plans and schemes being finalised with a view to bring forth requisite improvements in quantity and quality of water, said Dhawan.
 
 Apart from this, the FONRWA delegation also called on Rakesh Kumar Mishra, ACEO later in the day and had discussion on increasing stray dog menace in residential sectors with no action on the matter which is stuck in a limbo since June this year.
 
 "We were informed that approval of quotation at the rate of Rs 770 per dog for sterilisation from one of the agencies is in the final stage and work relating to sterilisation of dogs may commence in a fortnight in close coordination with FONRWA," said Dhawan.
 
 R S Yadav, senior project engineer (Health) was present on the occasion.
 
 The RWA federation delegation comprised of president N P Singh, secretary general A N Dhawan, senior vice presidents Rajendra Shukla, Suresh Tiwari, vice presidents Suresh Krishnan, Main Pal Yadav, members Yogender Sharma, Yogesh Sharma, Mahipal Singh and Uma Shankar Sharma.
 
