NAGPUR: Nearly 22 years after they were booked for murder, and 13 years after conviction by the   in 2004, the   acquitted five men due to anomalies in the post mortem report. The report made no mention of external or internal injury marks on the body of the deceased. All the accused had been behind bars till 2005, before the high court granted them bail while admitting their plea for final hearing.

 “It is clear that basic document (post mortem) has remained to be proved. In that view of the matter, we have no hesitation to record that the prosecution hasn’t proved that deceased died with homicidal death. The possibility of accidental death, therefore, can’t be ruled out. In the absence of any external or internal injuries on the body, possibility of homicidal death is ruled out,” a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Vinay Deshpande held.
 
 The petitioners — Ashwin, Yuvraj, Charansingh, Balu Rathod and Suresh Ade — were convicted by the Pusad Sessions Court on September 13, 2004, for allegedly killing Mangilal Rathod. They were sentenced to life imprisonment, which they challenged before the high court through counsel Rajendra Daga.
 
 The deceased’s corpse had been found floating in a canal near village   on May 28, 1995, by police constable Mahadeo Todasem, who initially reported accidental death. After preliminary enquiry, a report was lodged at the nearest police station and investigation officer (IO) Gulabrao Choudhari probed the incident. Based on his charge sheet, the accused were convicted. 
 
 When the case came up for hearing in high court, the petitioners argued that the prosecution failed to provide any evidence to validate the nature of death. They said the court shouldn’t rely on witness’ statement until the nature of death is verified, which brought up the possibility of death being suicidal.
 
 Opposing their plea, the prosecution pointed out that cause of death mentioned in post mortem report by autopsy surgeon was “cardiac respiratory arrest due to asphyxia secondary to drowning”.
 
 Justices Dharmadhikari and Deshpande noted that in the absence of any autopsy surgeon or medical examiner validating the post mortem report, the possibility of the incident being a suicidal act can’t be ruled out.
 
 “We’ve gone through the post mortem report that shows that it was conducted on May 28, 1995, and the doctor signed on next day. Below his signature, the medical superintendent of rural hospital at Pusad endorsed it and marked it as “seen”. It was open for the prosecution to at least examine the medical superintendent who endorsed the document that has been relied on by the lower court for evidence,” the judges tersely observed.
 
 They also flayed the IO for being unaware about the doctor who conducted the post mortem and for failure to examine the constable who first saw the body.
 
 (With inputs from Mayank Gurnani)
 
