Popular for her role of '  Girls on Top', TV actress   is known to have a mind of her own and is on a mission to change the world by breaking stereotypes associated with women. Using pictures that speak a thousand words, Saloni pours her heart out on various issues prevalent in the society on her   account. The latest is her take on  . 
 
 Talking about the same in her latest post, Saloni opens up about the complicated and painful human relationships that exist in the life of a grown-up. She also mentions how she found true companionship in animals than humans. 
 
  
  
 Sharing a picture of her where she can be seen with a horse, Saloni wrote: Rishte itne complicated kyun hote hain? I'd always wondered as a kid, why are grown ups so complicated? Why can't they just be...? Why can't they let go of abusive toxic relationships? Why can't they walk away from pain? Why can't they leave people that don't love them back? Why can't they love themselves? Why, can't they welcome love with open arms? Why can't people move countries to be with each other? Why can't they be loyal, faithful and honest? Why can't they just... breathe? As a little girl, I always saw myself having very little respect for grown ups because I couldn't understand why they complicated their lives beyond repair. I thought I'd never be one of them. I'd find love. But instead of humans, I found companionship in animals. They wanted nothing more, and nothing less. Their eyes connected directly to their souls and nothing had two meanings. I wondered why I couldn't be born as a horse, a dog, or a bird. I didn't realize that humanity came with its beauty, and it's curse. Yet here I am, struggling to understand how this little girl got stuck between a bunch of grown ups lost in this self conflicted chaotic world where morals are old fashioned and trust is a thing of the past, where check lists decide soulmates and kindness comes last. Where god is jailed into religion, and love, into castes. Where money is the language they speak, yet they wonder why their hearts are weak. Where love is lost, and love is torn apart, yet there was nothing worth fighting for right from the start... because happiness is a pill they've time and again swallowed, dropping dead to their knees, behind the devil that they've blindly followed. • • • • • • •
  
 Oh little girl, apologies for letting you get lost somewhere on the way, but you never wanted to leave, and I never really wanted to stay. 📸 @photowalktd 
  
 
  
  
 
 Saloni made her debut on the big screen in the short movie 'Maya'. 
 
 
  
  
 
