AHMEDABAD:   are rife with speculation about senior Congress leader  . On Sunday, Vaghela not only deleted all his political tweets but even ‘unfollowed’ all those he following, including   and  .

 Talking to reporters at the inauguration of a hospital in Bayad, Vaghela hinted that he did not want to contest either  .
 
 “I have contested several elections and for me polls are not important. What is required is to fight for the rights of the people and their problems,” he said.
 
 His son Congress MLA from Bayad, Mahendrasinh Vaghela, said that his father had said at Bayad that he had contested several elections in his political career. “He has been chief minister and Union minister. He is currently the leader of opposition in the state assembly. Now he just wants to serve the people," Mahendrasinh said.
 
 About rumours that Vaghela would soon be resigning as leader of opposition, Mahendrasinh said he didn’t know what his father had decided.
 
 “I saw his statement made at Bayad and from this, I can make out that he does not want to contest elections,” Mahendrasinh said. Shankersinh himself is tight-lipped and not answering calls.
 
 His social media manager, Parthesh Patel, said that on Vaghela’s instructions, he had ‘unfollowed’ all leaders and other people from Vaghela’s accounts on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Google circle and all social media forums.
 
 “On Shankersinh Vaghela’s instructions, I have even deleted political tweets from his account,” Patel said. “I don't know the reason for this. All I can say that it was done on his instructions." 
 
 It needs mention that last Saturday, Vaghela had left midway the meeting of state core committee leaders with the party's national vice-president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi.
 
 The meeting was reportedly taking place in the party's 'war room' in the national capital. Sources claimed that Vaghela had left the meeting in Delhi apparently because his demand to be named Congress candidate for chief minister or Gujarat election in-charge was not met at the meeting chaired by Rahul Gandhi.
 
 Not only the Delhi meeting, Vaghela had earlier skipped a number of important party meetings in the state. For instance, he was absent from the party’s state-level booth co-ordination committee meeting, and had also skipped the launch, on May 3, of Dariya Kinara Bachav Yatra led by former Gujarat Congress chief Arjun Modhwadia.
 
 Ahmed Patel, who was in Ahmedabad for the Congress social media cell meeting, said that he will speak to Vaghela first and then only comment on why he had taken such a step.
 
 GPCC president Bharat Solanki said that he had just learnt that Vaghela had ‘unfollowed’ all he was following on all social media accounts. “However he has not told me or the party the reason for this. I am yet to speak to him,” Solanki said.
 
 However, when asked why Vaghela was not present in the party’s social media campaign meeting, Solanki said that Vaghela had some prior engagement. “He had informed concerned leaders in advance,” Solanki said.
 
