CHANDIGARH/DELHI: The CBI has taken over the probe into Rs 48 crore scam in which government fund meant for disbursal as land compensation to farmers was allegedly misappropriated by a former district revenue officer (DRO) of Panchkula in connivance with bank officials.

 In July 2016, the state   had recommended to hand over the multi-crore land scam of Panchkula to the CBI, stating that it had links in Delhi and Chandigarh. The premier investigative agency has now registered an FIR against then DRO of Panchkula Naresh Kumar Sheokand and then senior manager of Punjab National Bank’s Jangpura Extension branch Bhim Singh for allegedly embezzling funds meant for land acquisition compensation between 2012 and 2015.
 
 In its FIR, CBI has charged Sheokand and Singh with criminal conspiracy, criminal misconduct and forgery. The scam was exposed when the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) alleged that a “deficit of Rs 47 crore was found in bank accounts of district revenue officer cum land acquisition officer related to NHAI in 2015”.
 
 Initially, the state vigilance bureau Haryana had registered an FIR under the Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 B of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act, in connection with the scam at the bureau police station in Panchkula.
 
 According to the FIR, Sheokand had opened multiple accounts in the Jangpura Extension, Malviya Nagar and other branches of the Punjab National Bank in connivance with Bhim Singh, then senior manager of the bank, and used these accounts for embezzlement and diversion of government funds meant for disbursal to the awardees whose land had been acquired.
 
 A total of around Rs 48 crore were defalcated by Sheokand, out of which more than Rs 37 crores were transferred to private persons through electronic transfer, the FIR says. Recipients of this amount had no entitlement as their land was not acquired. Besides, a sum of Rs 295 crores was embezzled temporarily. This amount was later credited back into government accounts.
 
 During investigation, it was found that over Rs 37 crore was transferred to the accounts of 17 people, who were not awardees of compensation for land acquisition by HSIIDC and NHAI, the Vigilance Bureau report, now part of the CBI FIR, alleges.
 
 The vigilance bureau report also found the role of officials of Punjab National Bank (Panchkula and New Delhi), Induslnd Bank (Panchkula), J&K Bank (Chandigarh),   (New Delhi),   (New Delhi) and Maharashtra Bank (Yamunanagar) in the entire scam and had requested the CBI to probe the case.
 
 Sheokand and the bank official were arrested by the state vigilance bureau in connection with the case. The main accused Sheokand is stated to be close to a senior Congress leader in Haryana.
 
 The scam:
 
 — NHAI had acquired land for widening of Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway, for which over Rs 500 crore was provided for compensation to land owners in PNB’s sector-8 Panchkula branch
 
 — Bhim Singh, an official of PNB’s   branch, allegedly transferred Rs 250 crore from sector-8 Panchkula to his branch in Delhi in DRO Panchkula Naresh Sheokand’s account
 
 — He also transferred six FDRs from Sector 8 Panchkula branch to various accounts opened in Sheokand’s name without any government approvals. From these FDRs huge amount was given to illegal beneficiaries causing huge loss to NHAI
 
 — NHAI suffered estimated loses of around Rs 48 crore on account of loss of interest and payments to unauthorized beneficiaries
 
 — Money from Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) deposited meant for compensation to land owners against acquisition of land in Panchkula was also allegedly misappropriated by Sheokand and others
 
