JAIPUR: At a meeting held by the   with various stakeholders in the industry, experts came up with 50 odd suggestions to be incorporated in the   to leverage the sector in the state.

 Although, Rajasthan has seen a steady increase in tourism facilities over decades, much more needs to be done by the   to promote the sector.
 
 The interaction with stakeholders covered various segments to facilitate  . These included simplifying land conversion, excise and taxation, intra-state connectivity, cleanliness and upgrading infrastructure. These will be submitted for the consideration of Rajasthan government to be integrated in the proposed Rajasthan Tourism Unit Policy.
 
 “The government has taken the initiative to set up inter-city air travel facilities by connecting Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bikaner. A connection to Jaisalmer is under consideration. Besides, we require more flights to Udaipur and Jodhpur with a higher capacity during the season from September to April. There is also a need to attract more international airlines to Jaipur airport so that tourists do not waste a day traveling from Delhi or Mumbai,” said a source.
 
 Following the recent demonetisation move, it was also suggested to start online booking and install swipe machines at all monuments under the government to facilitate tourists. A suggestion was also made to increase the validity of e-tickets for monuments to two days or more for tourists. This would help tourists plan their trips to monuments in a more leisurely fashion.
 
 Rajasthan accounts for a substantial chunk of total foreign tourist traffic in India, making the state the hub of the industry. There’s a demand for luxury tourist vehicles. Unfortunately, there are hardly any such vehicles in Rajasthan due to high taxation. It was also recommended to give tax exemption to those who buy new luxury vehicles to attract more stakeholders to this segment.
 
 But most importantly, there was need to launch a massive media marketing campaign in international and domestic markets to boost the sector, according to stakeholders.
 
