BENGALURU: It was in 1922 that Bengaluru got its first  . As the city grew, a   started in 1950. After the formation of the   ( ) in 1964, many areas without sewer lines started getting covered.
Since the city's sewage network is at least 50 years old, the board started replacing the ageing pipes with those of larger diameter in the last few years. But frequent complaints of overf l ow i n g m a n h o l e s a n d clogged drains, especially in areas such as Indiranagar, Koramangala, Malleswaram and Chamarajpet haven't stopped pouring in.
 
 Ramakrishna S M, c engineer, Wastewater Mana ment Zone, BWSSB, says pr sure on the city's sewera network, including new se ers, is growing every day .“Commercial establishments perating in residential localities ar main culprits. The existing rule mandates sewage treatment plants for commercial establishments of 2,000 squar feet and above. But even commercial set ups with a built up area of less than 2,000 squar are releasing a large amount of sewage into the network,“ he says.
 
 BWSSB officials say they had earlier proposed to bring residential and commercial units with built up area of less than 2,000 square feet as well under the STP norm but there was stiff opposition from various citizen groups.When asked whether there was any possibility for separate sewer lines for commercial units, a senior official said the limited road space to expand the infrastructure leaves little room for that.And despite the board threatening to levy penalty of up to 100% of the water and sanitary charges for not setting up STPs, not many establishments have installed them.
 
 H S Sudhira, an urban researcher and founder of Gubbi Labs, says the fact that the city's infrastructure is exceeding its holding capacity shows the absence of neighbourhood planning.“Every growing neighbourhood needs to be dealt with differently, based on the needs of its residents. Area sabhas and ward committees must be empowered so that they can plan their localities well,“ he adds.
 
 
