GHAZIABAD: A Ghaziabad-based real estate developer allegedly shot himself dead shortly after midnight at his residence in Shastri Nagar. Forty-eight-year-old   was the co-owner of real estate firm Charms India Group, which has various projects in Rajnagar Extension Ghaziabad. 

 According to the police, Singhal shot himself in his temple with his licensed revolver after locking himself in a room even though his son and wife were sleeping in an adjacent room. While the family members remained tight-lipped about the reason behind the incident, his friends in the real estate industry hinted that he was under financial stress which could have led to the incident.
  
 “Sanjay Singhal, director of real estate firm Charms India Group who lived in his house in Shastri Nagar along with his wife and son, shot himself dead immediately after coming from Indirapuram at around 12.15am on Monday,” said Neeraj Singh, SHO, Kavinagar police station. “We have learnt that Singhal was dropped home by his driver Ghanshyam and he headed straight to his room and locked himself and after about 15 minutes shot himself from his licensed revolver in his temple,” added Singh.
  
 His wife and his school-going son, who woke up after hearing the gun shot, rushed to his room which was bolted from inside. “They somehow broke open the doors and found Singhal lying in a pool of blood and he was rushed to Sarvodaya hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” said Singh. “We have not found any suicide note, but initial questioning from friends and relatives have hinted that he could have been under some sort of financial stress,” added Singh.
  
 A friend of Singhal from real estate industry too confirmed that he was under financial stress. “About a week ago, I had met him and we discussed slump in real estate sector and during that conversation he had told me ‘kaise chalega’ (how will we cope),” said his friend on condition of anonymity. “He looked worried,” added his friend.
  
 Singhal’s Facebook profile revealed that he had shared a post, an online petition regarding the suicide of a Maharashtra-based real estate developer who had shot and killed himself just like Singhal in October 2015. Suraj Parmar, the developer, mentioned the post, had blamed the complex process of government approvals and had left behind a note that alleged harassment by politicians and officials.
  
 Charms India Group has projects coming up in Rajnagar Extension where the company is making five towers. Currently, the society of around 1400 flats is occupied by 60-70 families only and it is learnt that the company a fortnight ago had applied for completion certificate. The company had already completed one of their projects named Charma Solitaire in Indirapuram a few years back.
 
