CHENNAI: In a rare bonhomie,   and the Centre have moved the   to modify/dilute its verdict ordering removal of all liquor vending outlets along national and state highways and banning such outlets within 500 metres of the highways. 

  While the Centre wants the ban limited to sales in shops, and not to hotels/restaurants serving liquor, Tamil Nadu wants the distance reduced to 100 metres and deadline extended by seven months. 
 
 On December 15, 2016, the Supreme Court passed the order on a batch of PILs, including the first one filed in Madras high court by advocate K Balu. 
 
 It ordered all liquor vending outlets along national and state highways shut by April 1, 2017, and wanted the authorities to ensure no outlet was within 500 metres of a highway.
 
    has filed an application in the SC requesting the 500-metre bar on locating a liquor outlet be reduced to 100 metres. and the deadline of April 1 extended to November 28. Referring to the apex court ruling that the ban would apply to all shops on highway stretches within limits of municipal corporation, city, town or local authority, Tasmac wants the ban limited to highway stretches passing through only corporations and municipalities. 
 
 Armed with an opinion from attorney general Mukul Rohatgi, the Centre too wants the order modified so that the ban on location vis-a-vis highways can be limited to liquor vending outlets and not hotels.
 
 In his February 24 opinion, Rohatgi said: "The judgment and directions contained therein apply to   wherein liquor is sold as retail items. The judgment does not bring within its sweep restaurants and hotels who serve within their premises. The idea is to ensure there are no liquor vends/shops within close proximity of these roads as per directions of the court, so that easy source of purchasing and consuming liquor is prohibited."
 
 The Madras high court and the Supreme Court laid down restrictions on liquor shops on state and national highways, besides insisting that they be located at least 500 metres from highways, only in view of the large number of road accidents and fatalities occurring in the country on account of drunken driving. The PILs linked proximity of liquor shops and the national highways, and said the shops induced drivers to purchase liquor and consume while driving.
 
