THANE: With the pollution levels in the city increasing every passing day, the   (TMC) has installed 20 air pollution controllers at Thane station area. This will purify the air and help in decreasing the toxin levels that residents are breathing in currently.

 The civic body has roped in a Pune-based enviro-automation company on a PPP basis for the project. As part of the testing stage, the team had installed one of the air pollution controllers at Alok Hotel junction on December 25, 2016. 
 
 During the trial round, the team found that there was a drop in the pollution level by almost 35% to 40%. This was being monitored for four months. 
 
 Once this was a success, the TMC went ahead and installed 20 more air purifiers along the station area—Gokhale Road, Shivaji Path, Dada Patil Road and Kopri dumping ground.
 
 Speaking about the eco-machine and its results, the managing director of the company, Amol Chaphekar, said, “The air pollution controller basically has a three step function. Firstly, it has a suction motor that sucks in 2,000 cubic ft of air per minute. Secondly, it has a patented filter which traps suspended particulate matter (SPM), pollen grains, dust, etc within the range of 25 to 50 microns. Thirdly, it releases purified air.”
 
 “In the research before the trial phase at Alok Hotel junction, we saw that the RSPM levels in the air were anything between 185g/m3 to 210g/m3, while the permissible level is 100g/m3. When heavy vehicle used to pass the area, the pollution level goes up to 275g/m3. This is because the continuous flow of pollutants from vehicles is trapped as they are surrounded by buildings and flyovers. Since we set up the first pollution controller here, the overall pollution in the area decreased by 35% to 40%,” Chaphekar added.
 
 The TMC plans to add 200 more in other congested regions across the city.
 
 Manisha Pradhan, head of TMC’s pollution control board, said, “Vehicular emission is one of the main reasons for air pollutant. Resolving this issue would reduce the overall air pollution in the city. We are taking this project one area at a time to ensure that it is actually getting the desired results. Once the air pollution at the station area is below the permissible limit, we will set up 200 additional units in other   like Teen Haath Naka, Cadbury junction,  , Kalwa Naka and so on.” 
 
 City-based environmentalists have lauded this move and believe that this is a much needed initiative in the city.
 
 
