They told me about the stock market games they played in college. While they found it fascinating, they knew it was not a dependable way to make money. They then participated in equity analysis competitions and found the cases being discussed at the forum to be very complex. Is there a simple approach to equity analysis? How should someone who is not a student of finance begin to learn it?

 Equity analysis does encompass a vast range of factors and requires processing of information with intensity.
 
 But the fundamental concepts are still simple and straightforward. Does the business hold an earning quality that will sustain over a long time? That is the central question. Every relevant factor of analysis should be able to answer that question. It could be about the market opportunity for a new business; or the strategic acumen of its promoters; or an innovative approach to products that captures large markets over short periods of time. All these activities should finally converge into an earnings stream that is clearly discernable, growing and of the quality that an investor can trust.
 
 Consider a business that begins with equity capital contributed by its promoters. To be able to manage a return to investors, the business builds assets to sell a product or service. It plans to put the capital to use and make a profit trying to do so. We can thus begin with the sales that the business achieves and whether such sales result in a profit. The post-tax margin is what is left for the equity investors. The first number to look at is the post-tax margin or PAT/sales.
 
 Then, one asks how this sales number would grow. The capital of the business is turned over from stocks to cash and back to a fresh lot of stocks that it would buy and sell. In manufacturing business, there would be fixed assets bought with the capital, deployed to produce goods, and then sold for a profit. More the sales generated from the assets, better the return to the investor.
 
 A business that can utilise capital so that more sales are achieved for the same investment in assets, returns more to its shareholders. The turnover of assets to sales, multiplies the return to the investor. Sales/assets is a number that tells you whether the asset productivity of the business would enhance the benefits from being a profitable enterprise.
 
 The third element is leverage. If a business deploys capital such that it earns 25% on it, the promoters would see that it makes sense to borrow funds at say 10% to fund the assets. Assume that they fund 50% of the business with equity and 50% with borrowings. What happens when they do this? The profit comes down from `25 to `20 after paying interest. But, `20 is the return on equity of `50, which is a 40% return, and is better than the earlier 25%.   assets with borrowings has resulted in better returns to the equity investor, the benefit we call leverage. Assets/networth is the number we want to look at, to see how much of the assets are funded by equity.
 
 The return on equity is a simple function of these three variables: PAT/sales (profit margin), sales/assets (asset turnover) and assets/networth (leverage). It is easy to see that multiplying these three numbers will result in PAT/networth which is the return on equity. This analysis, made famous by Du-Pont, is a simple but robust framework to understand the quality of earnings of businesses and how the future earnings will pan out.
 
  businesses worry about ARPU, value-added services, and revenues from data usage. They have made the investment in assets and in bandwidth, with the hope of making more money from subscribers. If they find that sales are not expanding, or even if they did, margins are dropping from competition in the industry, their ability to borrow falls. They consolidate with the intent to reduce costs and  , and enhance sales.
 
 Real estate businesses enjoy a high margin as they can add value to the land parcels they buy and develop. They do not worry too much about leverage, as they have enough margins. But their undoing would be a falling asset turnover. If they are unable to sell what they have built, or can do so only at a lower and lower sales price, their borrowings will become too heavy to sustain.
 
 E-commerce businesses, that are making a large volume of sales but losing money consistently, need more and more equity capital to sustain the assets they have. Businesses with low margin and low leverage need a very high asset turnover to sustain. Hence the everyday sales tactic to push goods off the godowns. Equity analysis and investing is both intense and interesting, and one should desist from trivialising the process. The return on equity framework is a good starting point for investors to understand the fundamental factors that drive the earning quality of a business.
 
