Fractured fingers, dodgy shoulders and strained hamstrings have robbed the glitzglam T20 bash of its hottest stars. Some won't be in action this season, others will miss a few games. It is pretty safe to suggest, though, that a team of these wounded warriors would have been the strongest in IPL 10. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  An injured right index finger will keep the South African out of IPL10 but the explosive left-hander and acrobatic keeper is a super option at the top
  
  
 
 
 
 Vijay, whose wrist and shoulder both need medical attention, is the perfect foil to De Kock
 
  
  
 
 
 
 India's most consistent batter against the Aussies needs a shoulder surgery. With his ability to play big shots and up the tempo at will, he is a great no 3
  
  
 
 
 
 That dodgy right shoulders temporarily denies IPL of its passionate poster boy and top scorer ever
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A back niggle kept the crowd-pleaser out of the first game. One of T20's greatest innovators, the crowd-pleaser and match-winner adds muscle and class to the middle order
  
  
 
 
 
 The mercurial teenager's ability to score rapid-fire adds value to the lower batting order. Laid low by a training injury
  
  
 
 
 
 Just the right guy for some late power hitting and some business-like middle overs. A left shoulder injury, though, means he will miss IPL10
  
  
 
 
 
 Advised rest for a few games by BCCI medics after a strenuous Test series against the Aussies, Jadeja was born to play T20. Electric fielder, lower order blunderbuss with a wondrous ability to take key wickets - what more can you ask from a T20 player?
  
  
 
 
 
 Among the finest death bowlers ever. Incredible fielder. Will miss early IPL10 after a hamstring surgery.
  
  
 
 
 
 Sports hernia will keep India's premier all-rounder out of IPL this season. His bag of tricks makes him a go-to bowler for any captain
  
  
 
 
 
 The paceman, who can also wield an effective long handle, is in restorative mould after a tiring Test season. His pace and variation is invaluable to any team
  
  
 
 
 
 The swashbuckling Kiwi, also hamstrung like Mathews, can be used at the top order if De Kock fails. Rahul will take over as gloveman.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Sri Lankan all-rounder, who has a hamstring injury, can walk into any side. But this all-star team, also adhering to the IPL quota of four foreigners, is different
  
  
 
