NEW DELHI: Market regula tor   said on Saturday that it has proposed to reduce the listing time for companies from the current six days from close of issue, and allow institutional investors in the commodities derivatives business.

 The changes are part of the reforms plan for the next financial year outlined after a board meeting addressed by finance minister Arun  .
 
 The regulator said that participatory notes had become less attractive as an investment tool used by foreign investors.
 
 The derivative instrument, used in the past to hide the identity of the ultimate beneficiary, was seen as a major worry given fears of misuse to channelise illicit funds.
 
 The commodities market seems to be a focus area for the regulator, which said that it would try to facilitate the integration of commodity spot markets and derivatives markets, in addition to designing a system of ‘Risk-Based Supervision’ for commodity brokers.
 
 After public consultations, the regulations pertaining to stock exchanges and other market infrastructure institutions will be amended. 
 
 The Sebi board discussed the review of regulations and relevant circulars pertaining to market infrastructure institutions (MIIs) — stock exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations. A committee headed by former RBI governor   had recommended a review of the working of MIIs after five years.
 
 “The five-year period is over. Sebi has come out with many circulars and we would see how those changes can be incorporated in the regulations itself,” Sebi chairman U K Sinha said. He added that the regulator was committed to allowing options in the commodity derivatives segment.
 
 Among the other steps, the regulator announced the setting up of a cyber security lab for the securities market and a facility for online registration of market intermediaries.
 
 While addressing the board during the customary post-Budget meeting, FM Jaitley said the regulator was evolving in accordance with the needs of the economy and markets.
 
 The regulator also updated the board on the actions taken with respect to alleged lapses involving the co-location facility of  . The board was also briefed about actions initiated against brokers in the National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL) scam.
 
 The notional value of participatory notes to the assets under custody (AUC) of foreign portfolio investments declined to 6.7% in December 2016 from a high of 55.7% in June 2007.
 
 The special investigation team (SIT) on black money had recommended a slew of measures, including the need for Sebi to come up with stricter norms for participatory notes.
 
