PANAJI: The  , locally known as ‘ranpatpanas’, sells for as high as Rs 2,500 per piece in local fruit markets, all due to its unproven record in treating cancer.

 The fruit, which grows on the Annona muricata tree, is also found in  , the Caribbean, Central and  . People who cultivate it, swear by its medicinal value, claiming that its extract can slow cancer progression and is better than painful chemotherapy.
 
 “It has a lot of medicinal value. Apart from treating cancer, it is also beneficial for people suffering from diabetes and high cholesterol. We sell it for as high as Rs 1,000 per piece,” said a farmer from Raia who grows the fruit. He even claimed that soursop was beneficial for pregnant women.
 
 The fruit’s health benefits were reaffirmed by fruiterers in the Panaji municipal market, who claimed it was capable of treating serious health ailments. 
 
 “The smaller ones sell for Rs 400 and the price may go up to Rs 2,500 or even Rs 3,000. We now get it from within the state only. It is good for curing cancer, the reason that many people buy it,” a fruit vendor at the Panaji market said.
 
 Medical experts, however, are sceptical of the unproven health benefits of the fruit. 
 
 Dr Shekhar Salkar, who heads the oncology department at Manipal Hospital, Goa, dismissed the claims surrounding the fruit, stating that had it been the case, the   (WHO) would have already notified its benefits. 
 
 “There are no proven medical records to support these claims. Even if someone has conducted a study supporting it, the results have to be replicated at multiple places for it to be given the potential to treat or cure cancer. It might be providing relief to patients by diverting their attention from the side-effects of cancer treatment, but there is no basis in calling it a cancer-curing fruit,” he said.
 
 Sharing that she too has seen her patients buying the fruit during their treatment, Dr Shuba Jyothy, radiation oncologist at Manipal Hospital, said there is no scientific proof to back these claims. “I have seen my patients getting the fruit from outside Goa as well. Many who consumed the fruit did not survive the disease. There is no proven medical record or study that can substantiate that the soursop is beneficial for cancer patients. Currently, in medical science, the only three treatments for cancer are radiation, surgery and chemotherapy,” she said.
 
