PATNA: Five persons, including a law and two medical students besides a deputy centre superintendent, were arrested at 8am while allegedly trying to leak the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET-2017) question papers two hours before the examination on Sunday. However, the examination was conducted peacefully.
 
    is for admission to medical and dental undergraduate courses across the country.
  
  The medical students arrested have been identified as   of   Medical College and Hospital and a resident of Officers’ Colony in Khagaul and   of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and a native of Sahpur under Nagarnausa police station area in Nalanda district. Avinash Chandra Dubey of Tarini Prasad Lane in Khajekala was the deputy centre superintendent at Christ Church School near Kargil Chowk. Avinash Roushan, a second year law student of Bharti Vidyapeeth in Pune, belongs to Akbarpur in Nawada district. The fifth arrested was  , the driver of the security vehicle which was carrying the question papers. He is also from Nagarnausa.
  
  Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said apart from Dubey, others were arrested from the Bypass road under Patrakar Nagar police station area in the city when they were trying to board the vehicle carrying the question papers inside a sealed trunk.
  
  “Pliers, screw drivers, hand-held rivet and several other apparatus were seized from the four,” the SSP said and added that police raids were on to arrest the kingpin and other members of the gang. Four cellphones marked A, B, C, D, to match the four different sets of question papers, were also seized.
  
  He said the gang had planned to board the vehicle and open the trunk by unhinging it without tampering the seal, click photo of the questions and forward it to other locations through WhatsApp. “As the security vehicle was covered from all sides, the gang had arranged battery-operated lamps for light,” he said.
  
  Sources said the gang, in another car, had planned to enter the vehicle after the question papers were loaded on it at Canara Bank branch in Luv-Kush Towers in the city. “The driver had planned to take the vehicle to a secluded place before reaching the school. They had selected Bypass road for that,” the source said.
  
  “The deputy centre superintendent made several calls on the cellphones of Shubham and Shiv, who were interrogated, leading to his arrest,” police said.
  
  The two medical students were in touch with some of their seniors and doctors, police said. “Their role was to forward the photographs of the questions to the seniors and experts who were supposed to solve them. We strongly suspect a similar gang monitored by the kingpin might be involved at some other places as well,” police said.
  
  In February this year, the Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) question papers were leaked and several people, including its then chairman and secretary, are in jail.
