Panchkula: A Class-3 child here may have just escaped being another Pradyuman, the 7-year-old whose murder at Ryan International in Gurgram has shook the country. But the mental scars have made him afraid of school.

 It happened on Tuesday afternoon at the state-integrated Sarthak model senior secondary school in Sector-12A. “When I went to the washroom after lunch, two taller guys in school uniform hit the back of my head with a stick and force-fed me a capsule that knocked me unconscious,” the child (8) shared with TOI. He had tears in his eyes and dread in the voice.
 
 He says he can recognise one of the culprits. But the school, says his family, is reluctant to help identify the guy. “The trauma has shaken my child. Yesterday (Wednesday) night, he couldn’t sleep. My wife and had to stay up with him the entire night to assure him that he was safe,” the child’s father (42), a daily wager from Abheypur village, said.
 
 On Tuesday, the boy’s mother was outside the school at the usual pickup time of 1pm. When every child but the boy had come out, she went in to check, and was shocked to find that they had given him a bath and a guard was getting him into some other clothes. “My child’s school uniform lay aside on the ground, in vomit and excreta,” she said. “The memory of the torture in the washroom kept him crying all day.”
 
 “We aren’t rich but will now move our child to a private school, as the management of this government school cannot be trusted. Neither its principal nor any member of its staff called up to enquire about my boy,” the father said. Panchkula district education officer (DEO) H S Saini took none of the several telephone calls.
 
 Police have registered a case under Section 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) at Sector 14. Station house officer (SGO) concerned Satish Kumar said: “On account of public holiday, schools were closed on Thursday. We’ll go over for investigation on Friday.”
 
 BOX:
 
 Almost another Pradyuman
 
 What happened | On Tuesday afternoon, at Sarthak School in Sector-12A, the child was in the washroom after lunch when two guys in school uniform hammered his skull from behind and force-fed him a drug capsule
 
 How it was found | At 1pm, not finding the boy at the gate during pickup time, the child’s mother went inside to find that members of the school staff had given him a bath and were replacing his clothes, while his soiled uniform lay aside
 
 School’s response | Boy says he can recognise one of the culprits but the family says the school doesn’t want an identification parade
 
 Boy’s condition | The child remains in shock, is unable to sleep, and doesn’t want to return to school
 
 
