HYDERABAD: An Indian woman residing in the  , who stayed at a city hotel during her visit, approached the police on Tuesday alleging   harassed two of her relatives when they came to meet her. They were both wearing traditional Arabian clothes.

 Fatima Khan, who had been in the city between December 26 and 30, claimed that an employee of the hotel had called STF personnel, who in turn asked if her two young guests were smuggling liquor or drugs. Fatima's British guests are also peeved over their experience in the hotel, one of them said in an email.
 
 “I opted for a top 5-star hotel so that my guests and I would be safe. But how safe we actually were? How can someone call STF officers on us when the hotel did all the mandatory security checks before letting us in,“ lamented Khan, adding that the person who called Task Force personnel with a fabricated story should be arrested.
 
 On the other hand, a representative of Taj Krishna, where she stayed, told TOI that “they did not believe in or practise discrimination on the basis of religion“ and added that “such visits and investigations were matters related to security of the country and its people.“
 
 “On receiving the complaint from Mrs. Khan, we did enquire into the incident, and we do not have any evidence which may suggest that any of the Taj Krishna staff prompted or alerted the Task Force against Mrs.Fatima Khan or her guests. We do not have any control on matters relating to security ­ to the contrary , it is our duty to cooperate with the police, as was the case here,“ said K Mohanchandran, director operations, Taj GVK Hotels & Resorts Ltd.
 
 “Mrs. Khan was, in fact, a guest of the hotel for two days after this incident and left with praise for our staff and service ­ so we find the allegations being raised by her rather strange. We have conveyed this to her too when we spoke to her.We also extended all cooperation to her and had even passed on the number of the investigating officer so she could check directly with the Authorities about her concerns,“ he added.Meanwhile, the Panjagutta police confirmed that they had received a complaint from Fatima Khan and were looking into the issue.
 
