BHOPAL/JABALPUR/KOLKATA: Scamsters from Madhya Pradesh have committed fraud in medical exams in Kolkata, too. The West   on Friday arrested an ex-Armyman from Jabalpur for his alleged role in a medical admission racket unearthed in 2015. 

 The suspect, Vishnu Prashad Chaubey, is alleged to be associated with the Sumantra Chaudhary module that was busted in 2016. The racket was unearthed by   CID in 2015 when CBI’s investigation into the infamous Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh was in full swing.
 
 Chaubey, 41, was arrested from his home in   of Jabalpur district. He is a native of Rewa and was wanted by Bengal CID as V P Chaubey alias K N Jha. “He is part of the gang that issued fake caste certificates to MBBS aspirants to help them secure admission in reserved categories since 2015,” said a police officer. Chaubey was living in Jabalpur for three years and was earning his livelihood as a security guard. 
 
 He was produced before Jabalpur district court, which allowed CID transit custody. Chaubey will be produced in a Siliguri court. A case of child trafficking is also pending against him in Bengal’s Kurseong police station. Police are being extra watchful because he had jumped bail once.
 
 CID officials told local media that Chaubey impersonated as admission coordinator of   in Bihar while duping several students. He was closely associated with Sumantra who has been booked in more than 20 cases in different states, say police.
 
 Gupta’s arrest from Jalpaiguri’s Malbazar in 2016 had blown the lid off a racket that issued fake SC/ST certificates for a price to medical aspirants. Some of those who ‘cracked’ the entrance this way are already practicing doctors, say police.
 
 CID officials claim more than 220 students paid Sumantra in the past 10 years. Chaudhuri used to demand anything between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 30 lakh to issue fake papers to medical college hopefuls, promising them seats in colleges in Kolkata, Siliguri, Katihar and Bengaluru. Investigators said only a few were finally able to grab the promised seats; most were left in the lurch even after making full payments.
 
 CID sources said Chaudhury began this illegal business by using the deep connections of his father, who holds a senior position in a medical college in Bihar. “Chaudhury recruited agents like Chaubey across the country, who prepared a list of students who missed getting admission to medical colleges each year,” an investigator said. “He then published advertisements claiming he could help get them seats. There were several cases where, though fake certificates were issued, the candidates did not get a medical seat.
 
 In those cases, Chaudhuri and his gang merely kept assuring them of a seat at other college, all the time milking more money out of them. At times, the accused ensured he made highest bids at certain medical colleges for their management quota seats. 
 
 Chaudhuri was first arrested in 2013 for allegedly duping a medical student from Guwahati — Nagma Khan — into paying Rs 17 lakh, promising her admission in a reputable college. By then, he had shifted to a posh house in Siliguri. In the present case, it was a complaint by an Andamans student, Sajia Ahmed, in January 2016, that led to his arrest. Ahmed had lodged the complaint with the Siliguri commissionerate and the case was later transferred to CID. Sources said Ahmed had passed Class XII in 2012 and had befriended a man who promised to get her admitted to a medical college in Bengaluru. However, after receiving an initial payment, the student was asked to meet Sumantra.
 
 He allegedly promised her a seat at Katihar Medical College and demanded several lakhs from her. She paid the money all through 2013 but never got into a medical college. Chaubey was involved in this case, it alleged.
 
