As things stand, only three mon uments from Hyderabad -Gol conda fort, Charminar and Quli   -can make it to the UNESCO heritage list. Of them, Qutb Shahi tombs stand a chance of making to the hallowed league in next five years.

  Qutb Shahi tombs are one of the largest resting places of kings in the world. The tombs are under conservation and encroachments have been removed. The recent opening of Deccan Park has brightened its cause for receiving UNESCO heritage tag.
 
 However, Hyderabad's oldest existing monument -Golconda Fort built in 1164 CE -will take at least a decade for a makeover. The fort is the world's largest palace in ruins with an original outermost fort circumference of 9.65 km.Much of it is now under encroachment.The lake inside the fort has dried up with squatters ruling the roost. A golf course has come up in the vicinity .
 
 Though Charminar is a unique monument it will never get the heritage tag due to encroachments. Unless encroachments are removed, UNESCO will not consider Charminar for heritage status, accord ing to conservationists.
 
 Once a walled city with 13 gates and seven windows, now the city has only two gates. The gates used to be closed at night for security during the Qutb Shahi regime. The historic bridge across the Musi also craves for attention. 
 
 Guidelines on   stipulate there should be no encroachments and monuments should be conserved and preserved in a scientific manner. There should be toilets, cafeteria, sufficient parking space, proper signage, well-trained guides and pictorial guide books.
 
 “Some monuments are said to be protected. But historical continuity is not preserved. A visitor to a monument should be transported back in time to witness its original grandeur. This is not so with any of the historical structures in Hyderabad,“ said Dr Mohammad Safiullah, who holds three doctoral degrees on Hyderabad's history .
 
 Heritage does not mean just monuments. It includes everything that the city shoud be proud of. For instance, cycle rickshaws that were witness to the Hyderabad of yore should be allowed to ply at least around   Unfortunately , the government considers cycle rickshaws as misfit in the modern traffic conditions.
 
 Historical water bodies should also be protected and cleaned. All encroachments should be removed to restore their original water spread area. The city once had 2200 lakes both natural and man-made.But hardly 400 of them exist now with encroachments shrinking their size.
 
