PATNA: IAS officials in Bihar are miffed at the   government’s reluctance in allowing them to go on central deputation.
 
  Like every year, the department of personnel and training under ministry of personnel, public grievance and pensions has invited nominations from IAS officials for central deputation. Incidentally, out of the sanctioned posts of 141 IAS officials from Bihar cadre for appointed on central deputation, only 41 are posted at the Centre, meaning thereby a shortfall of 44.6%.
  
  Few senior IAS officials told TOI on the condition of anonymity that many of them send their applications every year, but the state government does not give its nod. “A majority of officers in the state cadre, who are empanelled in the government of India in additional secretary rank, want to go on central deputation. The appointment of IAS officials from the state cadre in key departments at the Centre is also beneficial for the state government as many of its works are done easily; for instance sanction of funds under centrally sponsored schemes. However, Bihar government does not readily allow its IAS officials to go on central deputation,” said an official in the principal secretary rank.
  
  Another official in the principal secretary rank had a similar complaint. “I have also applied for central deputation twice in the past five years, but my application has never been cleared at the state level. Applications for central deputation are always pending with the state government. Incidentally, other states are not so reluctant in sending their officials on central deputation. One needs high-level connections in the office of the chief minister or chief secretary or at least in the general administration department to get the application cleared,” a Bihar cadre IAS official said and added that many senior IAS officials in key departments like finance, health, public health and engineering and divisional commissioners are keenly interested in central deputation this time.
  
  The few lucky senior IAS officials posted on central deputation include   of 1982 batch (posted as secretary in the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises),   of 1982 batch (secretary in the ministry of development of north eastern region), C K Mishra of 1983 batch (additional secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare),   of 1983 batch (secretary in the ministry of rural development) and   of 1993 batch (joint secretary, refinery, in ministry of petroleum and natural gas.
  
  Former deputy CM and senior   functionary Sushil Kumar Modi said officials in Bihar are overburdened and under political pressure. “The bureaucracy in Bihar is currently divided between CM Nitish Kumar and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. The officials in the departments led by RJD ministers have to answer to Lalu as well. Besides, many senior and efficient IAS officials have been given charges of several departments. Thus, there is too much pressure on the officials and, at times, they are not able to deliver the desired results,” Modi said.
  
  Modi and a few other senior IAS officials, however, admitted that there is shortage of bureaucrats in Bihar as well. “Though the number of IAS officials in the junior batches is increasing gradually, there is a shortage at the senior level. Besides, even the state government wants to retain senior and efficient officials,” said an IAS official.
