We find that an increasing number of young   in the city are giving up their jobs to pursue their passions or stay at home.
 
  Dev Purbiya, an IIT Kharagpur graduate and an engineer by profession, gave up a lucrative career in the IT industry to pursue his passion — photography — when he was in his early 30s. “I studied engineering and took up a job to secure the financial aspect of my life. Once I thought I was OK, I gave up my job and got into full-time photography and now my life is a weekend with everyday working,” says Dev.
  
  Early retirement isn’t just for people in their 40s anymore. And it isn’t only being done by people who want to take up their hobbies full-time either. “A friend of mine, a 36-year-old investment banker, is now taking care of his children and the house, while his wife, an interior designer, is pursuing her dream,” says Rita D’Mello, a media professional, adding, “He always wanted to retire early and worked towards achieving the required financial stability to do that. By the time he was 35, he had bought his house and secured his children's future.”
  
  Sociologist Vikram Prabhu says that this trend has less to do with fulfilling one’s responsibilities, and more to do with achieving financial goals, which means that the term ‘retirement’ has changed. He adds, “Mostly, people in the IT sector are the ones looking for early retirement; I haven’t seen any doctors, entrepreneurs or the likes looking to retire. In fact, they continue to work till later in their lives,” says Vikram. He says that stress is a major contributor to this trend. “People working long hours in high-stress jobs face a burnout and they are not able to spend enough time with the family and pursue their passion. This leads to dissatisfaction,” he explains.
  
  Priya Chetty-Rajagopal, VP of an executive search film, says that this phenomenon boils down to people having varied interests. “People don’t function on one engine these days; they have multiple areas of expertise. In fact, many are able to combine their work life with their interests. A lot of people who have retired are also active in different areas,” she says, adding, “Now, it is more a question of   early or not retiring at all as someone can give up a corporate job and take up full-time photography — in that case, can you say that he or she has retired? Some give up their corporate duties and take up entrepreneurial responsibilities to focus more on themselves. People are fulfilling dreams — sometimes it involves earning money and sometimes it doesn’t.” 
