Coimbatore: With hardly 24 passengers making bookings on the first Coimbatore-Krishnarajapuram special weekly train that is scheduled to depart on Tuesday night, the Southern Railway is considering stopping the service earlier than expected. The railway had planned to run this special train for 11 weeks and claimed that it was to serve the long-pending demand of passengers for a night train to Bangalore. It insists that   is a station in Bengaluru. 

 A few weeks ago, the railway announced the operation of a special once a week night train to Krishnarajapuram. It is to depart from Coimbatore on Tuesday night and return from Bengaluru on Wednesday night. Leaving Coimbatore Junction at 8.40 pm, it would stop at Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Tirupattur and finally Krishnajapuram at 4 am. It has one A/C two-tier coach, 12 sleeper class coaches and two second class coaches and can accommodate more than 1,000 passengers, said a press release. 
 
 “This was introduced on popular demand from passenger associations for a night train to Bangalore and was planned for 11 weeks, but at this patronage level the department might not let it run for more than a week,” it said. “We request passengers interested in retaining the train to book passage on it and patronise it,” it added. 
 
 Passenger associations cry foul at the   calling the train to Krishnarajapuram as a train to Bengaluru and expecting good patronage for it after introducing it in the middle of the week. “Our long pending demand was for a train to Bangalore City Station and for it to stop at Bangalore Cantonment, and not Krishnarajapuram which is almost 45 minutes away from the main station. People have to take a long cab ride, or the poor another train to reach Bengaluru city,” said Railways Passengers Users Federation president P R Natrajan. 
 
 “Also, this train serves no purpose being introduced on a Tuesday and Wednesday. If it was scheduled during the weekend, many students and working professionals could have used it,” he said. “ This is the latest tactic by the government to introduce an unwanted train, in place of a much demanded train, and then stop it claiming there is no patronage,” he said. 
 
 
