Mumbai: Confusion over the strike status of resident doctors prevailed till late on Thursday despite the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) saying that it had appealed to the 3,400 striking doctors across the state to resume work. The development came after a Bombay high court direction and an appeal from the chief minister.  “It is not clear how many resident doctors will report to work on Friday. MARD had not called for the strike, it was individual resident doctors who chose to shun dutyin protest against workplace violence,” a MARD member said. Termination letters, too, could not deter the striking doctors, who now face the likelihood of cancellation of their registrations and hostel accommodation.  Earlier in the day, the court had directed the state and BMC not to take any punitive action against the resident doctors who have been on mass leave since Monday, if they resumed work immediately. The court also asked the doctors to get back to work as the government had promised to deploy 1,100 armed security personnel in April, with 500 of them in place as early as next week. In what could worsen services at the already hard-hit public colleges in the city, the Municipal Medical Teachers’ Association (MMTA) with its 1,200 strong workforce of professors, associate professors and lecturers, have given the state an ultimatum of 48 hours to fulfil the demands of resident doctors. “If the security arrangements are not in place by Monday, we will resign en masse,” said Dr Ravindra Deokar, general secretary (MMTA).  The Indian Medical Association too plans to intensify the strike by ensuring more doctors join in from Friday. Dr Anil Pachnekar said that more OPDs will be shut as compared to Thursday. Routine pathology and radiology services too could be difficult to access unless these are emergency cases.  In a press conference on Thursday, the resident doctors said that they have seen little changes on the ground since the strike begun on Monday. “Even today, one patient is accompanied by ten relatives, which means the security arrangements are still not in place. Why can’t the government focus on meeting our demands rather than forcing us to join,” one of the doctors said. The court also asked for strict implementation of a rule to permit entry of only two relatives with a patient at all time. “Patients must have confidence in doctors. They cannot stand there watching…’’ said the bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni. “Each hospital has to make proper arrangement to not allow more than two relatives, including during visiting hours.’’ The bench said the “state cannot ignore’’ its own doctors' safety.  BMC’s additional municipal commissioner IS Kundan said that We have deployed additional security already but the doctor are unwilling to understand that procedures take time. “We have made a commitment to increase security in front of the court and that will be done,” she said. 