PUNE: A team of the Kothrud police here is facing an inquiry over last month’s “seizure” of   worth Rs 40 lakh from a businessman, which were never shown in the  . 

 The team allegedly extorted Rs 22.90 lakh from the businessman to hush up the matter after threatening to prosecute him for keeping the Rs 40 lakh in scrapped notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denomination.
 
 Interestingly, it was the policemen who had allegedly contacted the businessman initially and offered to get his demonetized currency notes replaced for a commission. However, when the businessman accepted the offer and came to a spot near Shivaji statue in Kothrud for the exchange, the policemen said it was a “trap and seizure” case and took him to the Kothrud police post along with the scrapped notes. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police   told TOI, “We have ordered an inquiry against a police sub-inspector (PSI) and some constables, who were part of the Kothrud police’s detection branch which is reported to be involved in the case. Appropriate action will be taken based on the outcome of our inquiry.” Hiremath’s directive came following a news report in a local daily highlighting the police team’s dubious action on Wednesday.
 
 The policemen neither informed their seniors before making the “seizure” nor did they make any station diary entry. However, late in the night, they informed Kothrud police’s senior inspector   about their action earlier in the day. 
 
 Phuge asked the policemen to make a station diary entry, prepare a panchanama (seizure report) of the recovered notes and hand it, along with a letter, to the income-tax authorities for further action. However, instead of acting on Phuge’s instructions, the policemen got the businessman to cough up Rs 22.90 lakh in regular cash and tried to hush up the matter. As of now, there is no trace of the “seized” Rs 40 lakh currency. 
 
 A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “The businessman owns a furniture mall on Karve road and is well connected with influential people, including senior police officers and even some constables.”
 
 The businessman was contacted by a constable from the Kothrud police early on February 2. “The constable offered to exchange old currency notes for a sizeable commission. Trusting the constable, the businessman called his friends who run small businesses at Market Yard and other areas and they collected Rs 40 lakh in scrapped currency. The constable told the businessman to come to the spot near Shivaji statue,” the officer said.
 
 When the businessman and his friends reached the spot around 4.30 pm, the waiting police team rounded them up and took them to the police chowky. Later the same night, the PSI and his team allegedly demanded Rs 25 lakh from the businessman to hush up the matter. The “deal” was finally settled for Rs 22.90 lakh, which the businessman paid the next day.
 
