NEW DELHI: Underlining their status as the world's No 1 Test team, India thrashed Australia by eight wickets to win the bitterly contested series 2-1 and reclaim the Border-Gavaskar Trophy on the fourth day of the fourth Test in Dharamsala on Tuesday. Winning this Test without   and subsequently the series after the 333-run thrashing in Pune says a lot about the character of the players who were led brilliantly in Dharamsala by  . 

  
  
 
 The eight-wicket success on Tuesday capped off a brilliant home season in which India won 10 Tests, but this series win was not without a twist in the tale as fortunes fluctuated frequently in Dharamsala. Here are five performances that made the difference in the Test:
  
 
 
  
  
  
 The series was up for grabs. Australia needed a draw to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Kohli was ruled out because of that infamous shoulder injury in Ranchi. Rahane became India's 33rd Test captain and the hosts pulled off a surprise by naming the uncapped left-arm chinaman bowler Kuldeep as his replacement. It proved to be a masterstroke. 
 
 Kuldeep began his magic after lunch on day one, dismissing  , Peter Handscomb and   in succession. All three were guilty of not reading Kuldeep from his hand, but instead trying to play him off the pitch. Warner went for a cut shot to a ball that was too close to his body only to find that it bounced and took the edge to Rahane at first slip. Handscomb shaped to drive a flighted delivery that turned back in to go through the gap and crash into the stumps. Maxwell was bamboozled by a googly and tried to play for the turn only to get bowled. Later, Pat Cummins too was dismissed off a wrong'un.
  
 
 
  
  
  
 On the first day of the Test, Smith became the first Australian skipper to score three centuries in a series in India and only the second visiting captain to hit three hundreds in a series here after England's Alastair Cook. Smith reached his 20th century off 150 balls and this outstanding form ensured that Australia gave India a tough fight when many expected them to be pushovers. Smith led from the front with three centuries and fell short of the 500-run mark in the series by just one run. His 499 runs at 71.28 is the second highest tally by an Australian skipper in a Test series against India behind the 594 in 12 innings (six Tests) by Kim Hughes in 1979-80.
  
 
 
  
  
  
 Jadeja was the standout performer for India in this Test. He may be at the top of the world rankings for Test bowlers but it was his dogged determination with the bat and the valuable 96-run stand with Wriddhiman Saha on day three that gave India a precious 32-run first-innings lead. Without Jadeja's stupendous effort, India's fortunes would certainly have fluctuated. Jadeja had also proved to be a thorn in Australia's side in the drawn Ranchi Test where he struck a quick-fire fifty and took nine wickets. On Indian soil, Jadeja has taken 121 wickets in 22 Tests at an impressive average of 19.88.
  
 
 
  
  
  
 It was the Indian seamers and Umesh in particular that handed the deciding Test to the hosts on a platter. In a breathtaking spell of fast and ferocious bowling, Umesh made life miserable for Aussie openers Warner and Matt Renshaw, who had to take evasive action on more than one occasion as the ball flew over their helmets, forcing Saha to jump up behind the stumps. 
 
  too exploited the pace offered by the pitch and got the ball to bounce awkwardly, even hitting Warner on the shoulder. Umesh's 17 wickets is the most in a home Test series for an Indian fast bowler (maximum four Tests) along with Javagal Srinath who took 17 vs South Africa in three Tests in 1996. Umesh's tally is his best in a Test series, eclipsing the 14 claimed in the four-Test series against Australia in 2011-12. Umesh's spell on day three would certainly be inspiring for upcoming seamers.
  
 
 
  
  
  
 The biggest disappointment for Australia was their flamboyant opener Warner, who ended the four-Test series with 193 runs at an average of 24.12 - his lowest in a series of four or more matches, and third lowest overall. Dropped by Karun Nair in the slips in both innings, Warner could make it count only in the first innings with a half-century. He was all at sea against the rampaging pace of Umesh and Bhuvneshwar in the second innings and was dismissed for 6. The only other instance when Warner scored less than 200 runs in a four-Test series was also against India in 2012-13 when he managed 195.
 
