PUNE: The clock is ticking on finalising the details between the   over the declaration of a large section of the Western Ghats into Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESAs). 

 However, a new issue has cropped up. Experts allege that politicians are spreading false information among villagers to incite them to agitate against the ESA policy.
 
 The recent draft notification from the ministry of environment, forests, and climate change (MoEF), if ESAs are declared, the areas covered will become a ‘no-go’ zone for high-polluting activities including mining, quarrying, big constructions, thermal power plants and certain industries. Those with interests in these industries are acting against the implementation, experts said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, ecologist   said there were different issues uncovered during his time as chairman of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP).
 
  Its 2011 report had recommended 64% of the Western Ghats be declared ESA. On the one hand, villagers suffered from corrupt bureaucracy, and on the other local politicians were using these experiences to scare the villagers into opposing ESAs.
 
 “Local politicians misinterpret the report to their advantage. One politician told villagers that they are fools to think the ESA will help them. He said if the ESA is declared, then the forest department would take their land. He told them that if they opposed the policy, a mining company of the area will pay them some amount,” he said.
 
 Gadgil cited another factor that was making villages protest ESAs – their exclusion from the planning. “In 1999, an eco-sensitive area was constituted in Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani region. The locals considered it as outside intervention imposed by the bureaucracy. One villager wrote stating that he had to pay Rs20,000 as bribe to dig a well. This was the reason they protested against the ESA,” he said.
 
 “In accordance, our report had recommended that the villagers should be made a part of the implementation plan of ESA, so as to preserve their interests,” he said. 
 
 However, the   (HLWG) chaired by   formed after the WGEEP report had taken this key recommendation out of their report, he added. The latter report forms the basis of the current ESA plan.
 
 Ministry’s Take 
 
 An Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA) is a bio-climatic unit (as demarcated by entire landscapes) in the Western Ghats wherein human impacts have locally caused irreversible changes in the structure of biological communities (as evident in number/ composition of species and their relative abundances) and their natural habitats.
 
 
