BENGALURU: A day after   officials turned away those seeking to exchange   for new ones, people continued to trickle into the RBI office on Nrupatunga Road on Tuesday.

 Although the crowd was thinner than Monday, many were seen getting restive as the central bank officials declined to exchange notes citing norms. 
 
 “We are extremely disappointed. If given a chance, we can prove that our money is legitimate. However, the RBI is treating us like thieves by telling us to leave,” said Lakshmi Devi who had come all the way from Srinivasapura in Kolar district seeking exchange of Rs16, 000 in old notes of Rs 500 and Rs1,000. Unlike Monday, no untoward incident was witnessed on Tuesday. 
 
 The latest rule allows only those who were abroad between November 10 and December 30, 2016 to exchange old notes. However, the eligible customers couldn’t get new notes since the Bengaluru branch of RBI doesn’t have an exchange facility. The RBI notification issued on December 31, 2016 says the facility is limited to the bank’s offices in Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkota and Nagpur. 
 
 The facility was available to the general public till December 31, 2016 and those who were not in India during the said period can avail it till March 31, 2017. 
 
 ‘Extend service to B’luru branch’
 
 “Is it not unfair to ask us to go to Mumbai or Delhi to exchange notes worth a a few thousands,” asked Satish Kumar, a resident of Hulimavu who returned from the US on December 31 after visiting his daughter. “And is it justified that people be punished just because they were a little late in getting notes exchanged? We demand the facility be extended to RBI Bengaluru branch,” Kumar added.
 
 “We can understand what people are going through. We also believe the Bengaluru office should be equipped with the exchange service,” said an RBI staffer. RBI officials, however, were non-committal when asked whether they would write to the higher-ups seeking the facility. 
 
 Meanwhile, the government’s declaration of a holiday on account of minister Mahadeva Prasad’s demise only added to the chaos. 
 
 Iranian helpless
 
 Shirin Tehraninekoo, an Iranian national, arrived in Bengaluru a couple of days ago to enrol herself in a BBA course. Before she left, her husband gave her money in Indian currency. On Tuesday, Shirin turned up at the RBI office seeking exchange of Rs 2,500 in the old Rs 500 notes. While RBI rules say foreign nationals are not eligible for exchange, Shirin was not even allowed inside the premises. “I don’t know what to do. I came to Bengaluru to study. I will have to go back to Iran,” said Shirin, helplessness writ large on her face. 
 
