Bhopal: The school education department has asked school employees to make a declaration that they have never been accused in a child abuse case.

 This is a part of the new guidelines issued by Madhya Pradesh government for school authorities on safety and security of students in state-run and private schools following the killing of a Class 2 student in a Gurugram school.
 
 The new measures have to be compulsorily adopted by all private and government schools in the state, Directorate of Public Instructions (DPI) said.
 
 “All employees — teaching and non-teaching staff working in state run and private schools will have to take a pledge for not having any criminal record under POCSO Act and Juvenile Justice Act. All the staff has to take this pledge and say that they have never been convicted of sexually harming any child,” reads the latest circular issued by DPI.
 
 DPI has also sought an affidavit from schools mentioning details of the staff with a ‘complete police verification of teaching and non-teaching staff’ within the given time.
 
 Schools have been asked to install CCTV cameras in classrooms, wash room, corridors, stairways and playgrounds. Part time counsellors in schools that can keep an eye on the behaviour of students and teachers have also been made mandatory.
 
 School principals are advised to monitor and check POCSO boxes every day and to initiate action on the complaints swiftly. The circular requires schools to have well maintained wash rooms with grills and window panes and proper doors with locks for safety of children, said the circular.
 
 Schools can also refer to the offenders’ register, run by the Justice Department and available with the state police. The register has a list of names of people convicted in a child abuse case. It is there to ensure that no one accused of sexually assaulting a child is employed in a position where they have to work around children.
 
 Following the Supreme Court orders, strict action will be taken against those schools found violating the guidelines, the circular said.
 
 
