HYDERABAD: Concern and outrage swept the city after the recent drug bust unearthed the ugly truth of schoolchildren hooked on a high. Notices were slapped on many elite schools and there was talk about launching campaigns, counselling and rehab of addicts. But weeks later, the concern seems to have petered out with most schools in denial mode. Also, the focus has suddenly shifted to  , where cine stars are under the drug vigil.

 Schools have not acknowledged that the rot runs deep. Police action too has lost steam.Most importantly , excise department officials had planned a meeting with 80 school principals on July 14, but the meeting didn't happen, nor did the much-hyped anti-drug campaign kick off. Except for Enforcement Director of Prohibition and Excise, Akun
 Sabharwal, shooting missives to schools, there has been little movement on ground.
 
 While some schools took steps to create awareness, this may not be enough to solve the crisis. “Schools should have been proactive. Unfortunately , that did not happen. Luckily, we had a system in place to deal with the issue. We have also tied up with an organization that makes teens from rehab centres speak to students about the drug death-trap,“ said  , principal, P Obul Reddy Public School. She said, “No matter how many lectures we give, it might not be convincing. But, if someone from their age-group shares their ordeal, we are sure it will have a big impact.“
 
 Several students of a   also participated in a massive awareness campaign with placards across 18 junc tions in the city on Sunday . “We named the campaign 'Happy Hyderabad' as we want the city to be happy and not `Udta Hyderabad'. Also, I will be speaking on teenage issues in the first week of August to create awareness on issues like alcohol, porn and drugs. In the next 30 days, our students will also be meet ing friends, elders in their communities and will create awareness on the issue,“ said V Amarnath, director, Slate school.
 
 City psychologists said drug addiction among teens has been a deep-rooted problem, which has long been ignored. They feel intervention is a must to solve the issue. “When people have a problem in the heart, they rush to a cardiologist, but when there is a behavioural problem, they hesitate to see a psychologist.
 
 Unless this mindset changes, we can't actually put a number on percentage of students addicted to drugs. But this figure has risen dramatically and there's a need to address this issue,“ said  , a psychologist.
 
