CHENNAI: "My brother was   chief minister Amma (J Jayalalithaa) and Chinnamma ( ). He worked as   for four years and would never think of stealing any property belonging to Amma. His services were terminated in 2012 and he had since been was working as a driver at Vadapalani," said Dhanabal. 

 Dhanabal, also of the AIADMK, was made MGR Mantram deputy secretary in 2009. "I had support from my younger brother Kanagaraj and started to grow politically. This irritated many people in the Salem wing of the AIADMK and a few leaders created a wrong impression about Kanagaraj. This is why he was sent out of Poes Garden," said Dhanabal.
 
 Dhanabal said he too was sacked from the party in February 2016. "Edappadi K Palaniswamy could not digest my political growth and used his powers to sending me out of the party," he said.
 
 After leaving Poes Garden, Kanagaraj married Kalaivani in Chennai in 2013 and their daughter Mahathi is now 18 months old. He did have any contact with political leaders after being dismissed from Poes Garden, said Dhanabal.
 
 "For a week Kanagaraj was in a private hospital as he was not well. Later, he came to his hometown with his family. On April 27, he went Attur in Salem to meet relatives. Around 8 pm, he was returning to Attur on a motorcycle when he met with the accident. We suspect foul play in the death," said Dhanabal.
 
 He added that he was in Coimbatore when he was informed of Kanagaraj's death and rushed to the spot. "There was no sign of an accident...," he added.
 
 The Nilgiris district police wanted to close the case. So they created a story, alleged Dhanabal.
 
 The Thrissur SP said Sayan had undergone a surgery. "He has come out of the  . We could not record his statement, but a team has been stationed at the hospital to be ready when doctors declare him fit," he added.
 
 Sayan's car rammed a container truck near Kannadi on Saturday. Since deep cuts were seen on the bodies of the woman and the child, there were suspicions about the cause of the deaths.
 
