
The subject has to drive me, the medium doesn’t matter”. That was actor   talking about The Test Case, a web series in which she plays a female army commando that debuted last week on ALTBalaji, a video-streaming service of Balaji Productions. After starring in The Lunchbox, an indie movie that wowed audiences in Cannes, and in the Emmy-award winning   Homeland, Kaur clearly has no reservations about acting in a show that will be available only online.
 
 Like Kaur, more artists from Bollywood, stand-up comedy and TV are migrating to digital platforms or, what in industry lingo is called, OTT (over-the-top content). With the presence of global players like   and Amazon Prime as well as domestic ones like Hotstar, Voot and the newly launched ALTBalaji, writers, actors, and filmmakers now have a space that’s more experimental, inclusive and, so far, free from the shackles of the censor board.
 
  Kabir Khan, the filmmaker behind blockbusters like Ek Tha Tiger and Bajrangi Bhaijaan, is now making a series for Amazon Prime Video on on Subhash Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army. Khan says, “I am excited to make this truly international series which has a scale and reach far greater than any Hindi film.”
 
  While Khan starts work on the war drama later this year, writer/director Hansal Mehta’s serialised biopic on Bose, starring Rajkummar Rao, will be available on ALTBalaji in four to five months, according to its CEO Nachiket Pantvaidya. “The script is structured like a thriller and tackles various conspiracy theories around his death,” says Mehta.
 
 Controversial subjects like Bose may find more takers in the digital space with its niche audience. “It’s an interesting and exciting phase for a creative person,” says Mehta who has made critically acclaimed films like Shahid and Aligarh. “Our mainstream cinema matrix has become very rigid. If you show a political viewpoint, the system will shut you down. In contrast, digital media is more liberal. I saw Vir Das’s stand-up show on Netflix and it was really sharp and politically edgy. I think this is very encouraging…to have this kind of freedom,” adds Mehta.
 
 
  
 
 What Mehta is referring to is Netflix’s first Indian special starring comedian Vir Das. Titled Abroad Understanding, it debuted last Wednesday. Netflix has also signed Mumbai-based stand-up comic Aditi Mittal as well as partnering with SRK’s Red Chillies Entertainment and Viacom for local content.
 
 Apart from Kabir Khan’s project, Amazon will be showcasing around 18 Indian originals being developed by big-ticket names like Excel Media & Entertainment, Phantom Films, D2R Films (DK Krishna and Raj Nidimoru) and Ram Madhvani’s Equinox Features. Filmmaker Krishna DK adds that digital audience in India may even see a few A-list stars on this platform by next year.
 
 It’s not surprising that streaming platforms are bullish on the Indian market. According to KPMG, video currently accounts for 60% of mobile data traffic in India, and is expected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 63% between 2016 and 2021. 
  
 For an audience which is fast tiring of shape-shifting naagins on TV, streaming platforms hold the promise of more interesting content and better production values. “The shows that we make have higher budgets than TV shows. Money is being spent on actors, directorial and writing talent and good production values,” confirms Pantvaidya. 
 
 Mehta says that more than the budget, what’s exciting artists is the creative liberty on digital. A five-hour binge watch allows writers and directors to explore the characters with greater depth and nuance than a 2.5-hour-running film can. And while the censor board flinches at the mention of words like sex and f*** and bans “ladies-oriented” films, the language of digital content is real.
 
 Romil & Jugal, a 10-episode series on gay love inspired by Romeo and Juliet, currently showing on ALTBalaji, has intimate scenes as well as plenty of locker-room talk. “What it says couldn’t be said elsewhere,” says Ishita Moitra, dialogue writer for the show. 
 
 DevDD, also on the same platform, is the retelling of Devdas with a bold female protagonist and is peppered with cuss words. It didn’t go down well with some critics. A review on The Ladies Finger, a women’s e-zine, reads: “A ‘wild’ woman character... doesn’t quite cut it in 2017, especially when you depict her idea of rebellion as being a loud brat, saying ‘f***’ a lot…”.
 
 It remains to be seen whether Indians will create content in the league of Homeland, House of Cards or Mad Men. These are still early days. “Right now the medium is limited to a younger, tech-friendly audience in urban areas. But it will get bigger,” adds Moitra. Ultimately, anyone with a smartphone can watch this content, and there are more than 300m smartphone users in India right now.
 
 
