Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on Saturday honoured toppers and best teachers from all departments as part of the 115th birthday celebrations of late Tamil Nadu chief minister, K Kamaraj after whom the university is named. As many as 35 students who secured first rank in 2016-17 and university teachers who managed to secure more number of research grants for the projects were honoured with a certificate and trophy. 

 Addressing a function held in the university, vice-chancellor, P P Chellathurai said that 82 classrooms in all departments will be converted into smart classrooms with air-conditioned facility. He also announced that students walking back to their hostels for lunch break will be given a ride using university buses. Boys hostels are situated at least 1km away from the university and most of them walk or ride their bicycles to reach hostels. Moreover, all hostels will be provided state-of-the-art gym facilities to help students to take care of their health, the VC announced. 
 
 The university will aspire to turn its students to job makers than mere job seekers and all efforts are under way to make MKU into a world class educational institution. Besides, the university will adopt 400 villages in the coming days and identify local talents – youngsters – helping them to hone their skills, he said.
 
 Speaking on Kamarajar, Chellathurai said that he was a great man who spent nine years in prison for the country’s freedom and another nine years as CM developing the state. 
 
 Former vice-chancellor of Tamil University, M Thirumalai in his address touched upon the life of Kamaraj and how fitting it was to celebrate his birthday as ‘Education Development Day.’ When he was young, Kamaraj did not have the opportunity to pursue education for long and his craving towards it pushed him to develop education in Tamil Nadu. He created the infrastructure for education in phases and most of the schools were established by roping in local people within a radius of one km for students to reach at ease, he pointed out. 
 
 
