NEW DELHI: Odisha chief minister and BJD chief   sprung yet another surprise, this time on BJP, by backing opposition nominee   for vice-president at the last minute on Tuesday morning.

 The BJD parliamentary group received word barely half an hour before BJP leader   was to file his nomination that the party will not support the NDA, a decision that yet again drew attention to Patnaik’s unpredictable ways after he had backed Ram Nath Kovind for President. The decision was seen as a balancing act, with BJD keeping a distance from BJP despite often being on the same side of the fence as the   government on legislation and debates in Parliament. BJD sources insisted the cases were different. Kovind quit his party membership before becoming Bihar governor and conducted himself in an exemplary manner thereafter. He also hails from the weaker sections and has worked his way up from the grassroots.
 
 On the other hand, BJD leaders said, Naidu was a party man and a member of the cabinet till his nomination was announced by BJP. It was also felt Gandhi would be seen as a more non-partisan choice for the constitutional position.
 
 The explanations, however, could not fully dispel the impression that Patnaik had played a smart political hand. He had helped BJP build momentum for Kovind in a contest where the saffron camp was short of the halfway mark and needed to dent the impression of a gang-up of non-NDA parties against it. The outcome of the vice-president contest is a foregone conclusion and siding with the opposition is not going to make a difference.
 
 At the same time, BJP certainly hoped for his backing and the shrewd Odisha leader refused to reveal his cards till the very last. The move came just as Patnaik’s critics in the state were preparing to slam him for again supporting BJP even as por-BJP elements in BJD jumped the gun and praised Naidu’s candidature.
 
 BJD moved carefully in recent months after BJP did surprisingly well in the zilla parishad polls, emerging as the clear no. 2 in the state at the expense of a depleted Congress. This led to some open feuding with senior MP Baijayant Panda calling for “introspection” over alleged cases of corruption and infleunce peddling and drawing the ire of Tathagatha Satpathy, another senior leader and Lok Sabha MP.
 
 
 
