New Delhi:   rebounded in January on the back of some revival in  ,  ,   and   sectors as key segments displayed signs of recovering from the impact of  .

 Data released by the   ( ) on Friday showed industrial output rose 2.7% in January from a decline of 1.6% during the same month a year earlier and above the revised 0.1% contraction in December. 
 
 The manufacturing sector rose 2.3% in January compared to a contraction of 2.9% in January 2016, while the electricity sector rose 3.9% year-on-year during the month compared to 6.6% expansion in the same month last year. 
 
 The mining sector rose an annual 5.3% in January compared to 1.5% growth in January 2016. Overall industrial output growth during April to January rose 0.6% compared to 2.7% in the year earlier period, highlighting the fact that the sector still remained sluggish. 
 
 The capital goods sector, a key gauge of industrial activity, rose an annual 10.7% in January compared to a decline of 21.6% during the same month last year. The data on capital goods has remained volatile prompting economists to call for a revamp.
 
 “The sharp turnaround in capital goods was led by its oft-volatile component, rubber insulated cables, which recorded a sharp spike in growth to 282.8% in January 2017 from an already substantial 55.5% in December 2016. We remain cautious regarding the sustainability of the double-digit growth in capital goods,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist at   said.
 
 She said the resumption of growth in consumer durables output signals some normalisation of production schedules, with the inventories that built up after the   likely to have moderated, as well as some improvement in consumer sentiment. “We are relatively optimistic regarding the sustainability of the improvement in the performance of consumer durables,” Nayar said.
 
 Economists said they expect overall industrial growth in the 1-2% range in 2016-17. “On a cumulative basis, growth so far is just 0.6% for the first 10 months, and we expect growth to move towards 1-2% for the entire year. It will be propped up by consumer goods and basic goods — the latter being driven by the government to a large extent,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at   said.
 
 
