NEW DELHI: BJP leader Vinay   triggered a political controversy with a comment on   Gandhi’s looks, saying that it would not help   fetch votes.

 “It will not have an impact. There are several hard working and successful women leaders including MLAs and MPs who are as good looking as Priyanka,” Katiyar said when asked whether Priyanka’s full-scale involvement in Congress’s campaign in UP could benefit Congress. Katiyar also mentioned Union textiles minister Smriti Irani among women leaders of BJP who matched Priyanka’s good looks. “I think Smriti Irani is also beautiful and she is campaigning too,” he said.
 
 Priyanka and Congress seized upon the comment to target Katiyar and BJP for what they called their anti-women outlook. Mocking Katiyar for saying that BJP had more beautiful women campaigners, the younger Gandhi sibling said, “He is right... they do! And if that’s all BJP sees in my colleagues who are each strong, brave and beautiful women who have battled through all sorts of hardships to get where they are, then he makes me laugh even more. Because he exposes the BJP’s mindset towards half of India’s population.”
 
 Calling it an insult to India’s women, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “Such conduct, behaviour and words prove BJP’s mentality. Time for PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to apologise.”Even Priyanka’s husband Robert Vadra joined in the attack, demanding that Katiyar apologize for his “misogynistic” comments. 
 
 A defensive BJP quickly expressed regret. “I regret he has made such a remark. Neither the government nor the party subscribe or support to such views... Vinay Katiyar’s comments are condemnable, they are not acceptable,” I&B minister M Venkaiah Naidu said. Speaking to TOI later, Katiyar said he never intended to hurt Priyanka and that he had huge respect for women, who were welcome in politics. “My comments are being blown out of proportion. I had reacted only to a reporter’s question as he said Congress leaders feel that Priyanka will change the poll dimensions,” he said. Significantly, even as BJP left Katiyar to defend himself, a close look at the footage suggested that the BJP member’s comment came in response to a leading question by a persistent reporter who started off by saying that Priyanka and Akhilesh Yadav were getting greater prominence in the SP-Congress alliance’s campaign than Mulayam Singh Yadav and Sonia Gandhi. The BJP member responded by saying this would have no impact and Congress had been trying to “highlight” Priyanka for quite some time now. When pressed again and told of Priyanka’s looks, Katiyar said there were hard working and successful women leaders in BJP too who were as good looking like Priyanka.
 
