CHENNAI: While the  's surveillance teams remain focussed on the roadways of   to curb cash distribution, political parties have allegedly, stealthily been bringing in money through the non-monitored suburban railway stations.

 Three suburban stations, Korukkupet, Tondiarpet and VOC Nagar, fall within the   constituency limits. According to sources, cash as much as Rs 30 crore had been clandestinely brought into the constituency through these stations over the last few days. Strangely, the EC has not deployed surveillance teams to monitor activity in the vicinity of these stations, as found during a TOI assessment on Friday.
 
 "For some reason, there has been no instruction regarding monitoring the railway stations. While there are instructions to flag down outstation vehicles on the road, this is not of much use as it is easier for parties to casually bring money through the  ," said a surveillance squad member, requesting anonymity.
 
 Additional District Election Officer, M Govinda Rao, told TOI that the issue of cash flow through railways had come up in "recent discussions."
 
 "We have been coordinating with the Government Railway Police and the RPF about this. Moreover, our mobile micro observers have been instructed to cover the areas around railway stations. We will decide whether a static surveillance team is required (at stations)," he said.
 
 A source within the Election Commission, however, added that it was "practically impossible" for the authority to scan railway stations. "How can we stop and scan the baggage of hundreds of rail passengers? It is impossible," the source said.
 
 The situation can be best explained from VOC Nagar. While the platform itself is sparsely lit, the area around the station offers protection for anyone wanting to move huge amounts of currency undetected, after nightfall. "There are two signals before the station. During evening, the bottleneck in Thiruvottiyur increases traffic on the line. So, trains usually halt just before the station. Any one can push currency at this stage, if not at the station itself," said Srinivasan, the station manager at VOC Nagar.
 
 Railway Protection Force (RPF) officers said there had been no communication with the election authorities regarding surveillance. "We don't have the equipment to conduct baggage surveillance even if they ask us to monitor," a local RPF inspector said.
 
 Sources said hutments found along the railway tracks offer the perfect stash spot. "There is suspicion that the huts and apartments abutting the railway lines are used to store the currency till they find the right window of time to distribute," a paramilitary trooper with a surveillance squad said, on condition of anonymity.
 
 (With inputs from B Sivakumar)
 
