AURANGABAD: The city police were in for a shock on Saturday as they tracked a 16-year-old girl who had scripted her kidnap story to avoid appearing for the   exams and fled to Agra. 

 On Tuesday, her parents had approached the police and alerted them that she was not kidnapped as suspected earlier. The police swung into action and started tracing the girl, who would make calls to her parents from cellphones of commuters she met on her way to Agra on a train. The police finally rescued the girl and brought her back here on Saturday afternoon.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police   said, “Whatever may be the reason, we are happy to unite her back with the family.”
 
 Asked if the girl will still appear for the examination, investigation officer and police sub-inspector Prashant Gambhirrao said, “We have counselled the girl and her parents. We are also convincing her to appear for the exams.”
 
 An officer privy to the investigation of the case said the girl was dropped by her mother at her school on February 27 for the send-off party. Gambhirrao said, “While dropping her to school, the girl was reprimanded by her mother for scoring poorly in the preliminary examinations.”
 
 After the party ended at 12.30pm, the girl hired an auto-rickshaw and reached the Aurangabad railway station. From there, she took a biryani stall owner’s cellphone and called her school principal, informing that a girl student from the institute has been kidnapped and was being taken in a train.
 
 The school staffers tried gathering information about the victim girl but in vain. As the girl did not return home till late in the evening, her family members and friends started looking for her and got to know about the call to the principal.
 
 The girl’s parents went to the police station, following which a case of kidnapping was registered on February 28. The police started the investigation and tracked down the number, from which the call was made to the principal. It was found that the number belonged to a Biryani stall owner at the railway station. He was rounded up for investigation and was left only after the CCTV cameras corroborated with his version.
 
 Before the police made their next move, the girl's family received another call from a different number. This time, the caller said their daughter has been kidnapped. On tracking the number, it turned out to be of a woman commuter travelling in the train.
 
 The police found that the girl had boarded   to Delhi. Meanwhile, the girl made another call to her father using a woman commuter’s cellphone from the Agra railway station.
 
 The girl spoke to her father, impersonating as the kidnapper, and threatened to kill his daughter if he failed to pay a ransom of Rs 5 lakh.   police inspector Dhananjay Yerule said, “When we found that the kidnapper is contacting the family for ransom, we increased the technical surveillance manifold.”
 
 He added, “The last call was made from the Agra police station. We informed the   about the girl and soon teams started looking out for her. She was finally found and brought back to the city on Saturday.”
 
