THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city   has selected seven areas out of the twelve ones submitted by iDeCK - Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Ltd, the smart city consultant for area-based development. Pressure was mounting on the corporation to   the regions as the deadline for submitting final proposal falls in March.

  The ruling council, which was awaiting party nod, has shortlisted seven areas although the consultant had proposed that six be chosen from the list. The technical committee constituted by the local body will formalise the list in a meeting scheduled on February 2. Of the seven places, three will be selected through public voting.
 
 Sources in the corporation said Akkulam-Veli lake-Parvathy Puthanar canal-Edayar island, Medical College, core business areas (Thampanoor, Chalai and East Fort), corridor along NH bypass, Kazhakkoottam,   and Kochuveli have been shortlisted for voting.
 
 As per the draft proposal submitted by iDeCK, 12 potential areas were proposed for area-based development which included Akkulam-Veli lake and Kochuveli area, Kazhakkoottam, core business areas, Attukal, NH by-pass corridor, outer area growth corridor, Vizhinjam area, Akkulam-Veli lake- Parvathy Puthanar canal-Edayar island, Thiruvallom area, Medical college, Sreekaryam and Nemom. The smart city proposal encapsulates either a retrofitting or redevelopment or greenfield development model and a pan-city feature with smart solutions.
 
 The consultant and the civic body are bracing for busy days ahead as brief proposals have to be prepared for each area. These proposals will also be put on public domain during the voting phase, which is expected to take almost a month.
 
 The three areas selected through voting would be considered for the final selection by the state government-appointed high-powered steering committee, which would finalize on one area to be developed as smart city.
 
 The consultant has also proposed various theme-based development projects for each area based on topography and population density. The themes include heritage, traffic, transport, etc. 
 
 An area comprises 3-4 wards.
 
 
