CHENNAI: It was a lone battle, which   started when she signed an online petition asking the   ministry to end the “harmful practice of hospitals and doctors making money off unsuspecting women and pushing them towards surgical deliveries“.

 Ghosh's story of a long painful, depressing recovery after a   seemed to have struck a chord with thousands of people.The petition received more than 1.4 lakh signatures and provoked minister for women and child development Maneka Gandhi to respond. But the alarm was probably the loudest in two south Indian states -Telangana and Tamil Nadu -which have the largest percentage of caesarean sections in the country .
 
 Last year, statistics released by Union health ministry showed Tamil Nadu was in the second spot in the number of c-sections. More than 34.1% of the women in the state were being cut open for deliveries in 2015-16, a jump of around 14% from 2005-2006. A little more than half the deliveries in private hospitals are c-sections (51.3%), compared to a quarter of all women who went to government hospitals, where two-thirds of the deliveries take place.
 
 In urban areas, women who walk into labour rooms are older and come with risks such as gestational diabetes, infertility and hypertension, forcing c-sections, doctors said. But the problem in the rural area is the lack of availability of doctors.
 
 “A doctor in a rural area may plan an early surgery because an anaesthetist or support staff may not be available late in the night,“ senior obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Uma Ram said. “An increase in c-sections has a lot to do with growing medical problems and availability of resources. Sometimes, wo men also force the doctor to do caesareans.“
 
 Health department officials admit that c-section rate is growing exponentially in the state. “The petitioner is right in saying that there is higher risk of post-partum depression and lower breastfeeding rate in women, but many times waiting for normal deliveries can be dangerous,“ said director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy .
 
 In the past 10 years, the number of c-sections in government hospitals has increased by more than 11% but, during the same period, maternal and infant mortality rates have dipped.
 
 The infant mortality rate dropped from 30 per 1,000 live births in 2005-2006 to 21 in a decade. “Our reports show this year we are further down at 19. Sometimes, risk in c-sections can be handled better than an unexpected complication in vaginal deliveries,“ Kolandaisamy said.
 
