HYDERABAD: The construction of integrated   complexes in the 21 new districts will leave the   poorer by Rs 1,260 crore. Roads and buildings department engineers have prepared preliminary estimates stating each office complex with 2.5 lakh square feet built up area will cost about Rs 60 crore. 

 These estimates exclude the land acquisition cost as the respective district collectors have been asked to identify government land and all of them, except four have done it so far.
 
 “After the reorganisation of the districts, the need for new office complexes was felt and the state government wanted integrated office premises to accommodate over two dozen government departments with whom the citizens' are in touch on a daily basis. As per preliminary estimates, over Rs 1,260 crore would be required for construction of these complexes alone. Other infrastructural facilities in the collectorate premises would cost more,“ said an official.
 
 Though there is a proposal to construct helipad on every collectorate complex, but the issue is yet to be finalised. These new complexes will be equipped with optic fibre network and environment-friendly measures like rain water harvesting pits.
 
 When contacted, roads and buildings engineer-in-chief I   confirmed that Rs 60 crore is the preliminary cost estimate for each complex and the government also wants the existing collectorate offices too to be given a facelift and estimates are being prepared. Then the construction of government guesthouses in each of the new districts will cost nearly `100 crore in all. Each guesthouse will have four suites and the total built up area would be 6,000 sq feet.
 
 With the cost of all these buildings itself likely to cross Rs 1,500 crore mark, it has been decided to leave the task of constructing new office buildings for respective district superintendents of police and zilla parishad office buildings to Police  . Meanwhile, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to inaugurate new   quarters on February 17 coinciding with his birthday . He had laid foundation stone for it on February 17, 2016 and it was governor  's wish that it should be completed and inaugurated on KCR's next birthday , i.e. February 17, 2017.
 
 The quarters, 150 in all, have been constructed at a cost of Rs 90 crore. A community hall and a school building is also being constructed. “We will complete the work and hand over the building before February 17, 2017,“ an official said.
 
 Roushan Ali I TNN
 
