The oldest and perhaps the most effective way of learning is to plonk oneself at the feet of the master. But this is not always possible or practical. Once upon a time, people turned to correspondence courses or postal guides when they needed to teach themselves an art but these never served the purpose, when it came to a skill like, say, swimming. Then came the Internet and there are   and videos that help you master anything from dance to direction and cooking to cosmology.

 Whether it be cooking, dance, music, yoga or even getting your make-up and hairstyles right or simply to impress your family with your amazing DIY skills,   and tutorials have been the choice for a large number of people these days. Kochi Times talks to a few among them to know what prompted them to join the online bandwagon.
 
 
 
 
 I was in hostel for seven years, so I never got a chance to learn cooking from mom. After marriage, I moved to the US, along with my husband. Since, there is difference in time zone, when I cook here, it will be night back home, and my mother would be asleep. That’s why I turned to online videos. I started with basic cooking for survival. Now, I have picked quite a few techniques and try a variety of cuisines including American, North Indian and our very own naadan food. For international cooking, I subscribe to a channel by Chef John, and it is the ultimate one for equipping oneself with American food varieties. I learnt naadan cooking with the help of videos from a food expert Mia, who is from New York, and for North Indian food, Sanjeev Kapoor, among a few others.
 
 When we have guests, I treat them with sumptuous meals, and it is a great delight when they say that they like my cooking. In fact, they now want me to start a channel myself. In fact, I use online videos to get tips about make-up, home decoration and hairstyles.
 
 
 
 
 
 I use online sites to tackle all kinds of issues, right from learning the basics of baking, beauty tips and easy hacks to life skills like parenting and professional inputs.
 
 As I am a kindergarten teacher, I watch videos on how children abroad are taught and make use of the different techniques. I use it extensively to teach my own children for art, craft and origami. I also look at yoga tutorials and foreign language classes on a regular basis. Online tutorials have helped me evolve as a person to face the modern world with confidence.
 
 
 
 
 Being a classical dancer, I have always believed in sticking to tradition, when it comes to dance. Initially, I was very sceptical about teaching my students over instant messaging app. However, I had to join the online club, as many of my students moved abroad, and they were adamant that they would learn dance only from me. When I was a bit hesitant, their parents too persuaded me and said that was the only way the children can continue their learning. Now, I teach around 10 students from US and three from Dubai. Since, I knew these students, there is no communication gap at all. However, I feel that without getting proper training from any well-informed teacher, if they are learning just the online way, they may acquire wrong knowledge. Given that dance is two-sided, there has to be a good rapport between the teacher and the student.
 
 That said, I have also followed dance online, as there are a lot of gurus I have always admired and whose archived videos can be found online. Such videos are a treasure for people like me, who can never see those geniuses.
 
 
 
 
 Cooking has always been a passion for me. My online learning started with a channel by Chef Sanjay Thumma. Though I pick up many things from there, I also make it a point to give my personal touch to it. For instance, I wanted to authentically prepare fried rice. That was when I stumbled on to the cooking world of Faiza, an expert from Pakistan. Her channel has been a source of inspiration for me to try out Pakistani dishes, along with Indian and North Indian delicacies. Now, I can proudly say that I have become a master chef, and when I see my friends lamenting about not knowing even to boil water, I tell them which online source to tap. Lip-smacking fried chicken, Chinese food and spicy curries have always been my favourites.
 
  
 
