NAGPUR: On his maiden visit to India,   superstar and key   forward   will coach country’s top prospects at the   (NBA) Academy at Jaypee Greens Integrated Sports Complex in Delhi National Capital Region (NCR).

 The Most Valuable player of the 2017 NBA finals, Durant will be in the Capital for three days. He will reach Delhi on July 27. In addition to training the best Indian prospects at NBA’s maiden academy, Durant will host a basketball clinic for 5000 youngsters from the Reliance Foundation junior NBA program.
 
 He will be the first active NBA player to visit any academy and share his knowledge with young kids. Excited on his maiden visit to India Durant said, “I’ve wanted to visit India for a long time. I am excited to travel to India to help promote the game of basketball and meet the prospects at the NBA Academy India.”
 
 At the academy, Durant will coach the selected prospects through a series of shooting, passing, dribbling and defensive drills. “I am super excited about the grassroot program. I can’t wait to experience the country’s unique culture and share my knowledge with the kids there,” he said.
 
 After conducting day-long drills at Noida on July 28, the 6’9” forward from the University of Texas will lead a large-scale basketball clinic for 5,000 young cagers from the Reliance Foundation. Around 1,000 players will be onsite while the other 4,000 boys and girls will join virtually from Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata via satellite link.
 
 On the same day, Durant will start his hectic journey by donating two new basketball courts to the Ramjas School as part of the Kevin Durant Charity Foundation’s - Build it and they will ball - courts renovation initiative.
 
 Like every Indian cager NBA India Managing Director Yannick Colaco too is excited to host the two-time MVP and eight-time NBA All-Star. Colaco said, “We are thrilled to host 2017 finals MVP Kevin Durant in India. Kevin is coming off an historic season with the Golden State Warriors, and having one of the very best players in our league interact with the basketball playing youth of India will serve as great inspiration to the next generation of players here, especially the high-performing prospects at our first academy in India.”
 
 Leading the Warriors to their fifth NBA championship Durant averaged 25.1 points, 8.3 rebounds, 4.8 assists, 1.6 blocks and 1.1 steals per game in the season.
 
 He will conclude his journey at Agra by visiting the Taj Mahal on July 29. 
 
