KOLKATA: The city was inundated by a   on Friday morning, leaving streets waterlogged and thousands stranded in the rain that lasted nearly two hours. A cyclonic circulation over north-west Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure trough passing through Gangetic Bengal triggered the downpour that started shortly after 10am, catching office-goers unaware and leading to massive traffic snarls across north, south and central Kolkata. Alipore Met office recorded 66.8 mm of rain till 2.30pm on Friday, making it the season’s second heaviest shower.

 At Kolkata airport, the apron area was flooded. The heavy downpour brought down visibility, forcing two planes to abort landing and go around. An Air Force aircraft then went to Bagdogra while a SpiceJet flight did a go-around before finally touching down.
 
 In the city, extensive stretches of central and north Kolkata were left flooded — Chittaranjan Avenue and Amherst Street being worst hit. Tallah and Belgachhia went under water as well. The New Market area in central Kolkata remained under knee-deep water for hours. A stretch of Jawaharlal Nehru Road and SN Banerjee Road, too, were flooded.Down south, Deshapriya Park and stretches of Sarat Bose Road were waterlogged, making traffic crawl. Swinhoe Street, Paddapukur Road, Chakraberia Road, Gariahat, Beckbagan and parts of Rashbehari Avenue went under ankle-deep water. A high tide in the Hooghly added to the woes. The   had no options but to close the lockgates along the Hooghly. The civic body pressed all its pumps into service but storm water took sometime to recede. 
 
 The deluge was the effect of a low-pressure trough that stretches from Punjab to Gangetic Bengal. It was supplemented by a cyclonic circulation over north-west Bay of Bengal that intensified on Friday. The result was a 7-8 km tall column of cumulonimbous cloud that led to the heavy precipitation. “It was a typical monsoon shower. The city had a thick cloud cover and received the bulk of the rain which it triggered, leaving the fringes and neighbouring districts dry. This is the heaviest shower in July, though the highest recorded this season is 93.6 mm on June 19.
 
