MUMBAI: A special Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS)   on Monday convicted and sentenced two   nationals to 14 years’   for possessing commercial quantities of  . 

 The duo, arrested for possessing 7kg of methamphetamine and five kg of ephedrine, has been in jail since their arrest in 2008. 
 
 In 2010, the sessions court had granted bail to the duo. However, after the prosecution moved the Bombay high court against the order, the relief was set aside. 
 
 The high court had said the accused will continue to be in custody until the end of their trial. 
 
 The prosecution had told the court on November 25, 2008, an intelligence officer received information that two Malaysian nationals, Ravindran Karapaya and Gunasekaran Pillay, both residents of Thakur Village in  , had stored a substantial quantity of methamphetamine, a psychotropic substance, and ephedrine, a controlled drug, in their premises. It was also learnt that they allegedly procured the contraband from a factory in Gujarat. 
 
 On the basis of that information, officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the premises. The prosecution said at that time, neither of the accused was present at home and in their absence the  , in the form of white powder, were recovered. 
 
 The prosecution further alleged that on November 21, 2008, the duo was arrested by cops in Gujarat in connection with seizure of methamphetamine in Vadodara. They were then taken into custody by the Mumbai NCB. The prosecution said the investigation revealed that a third accused used to deal with the export of contraband drugs while Karapaya and Pillay used to assist him. The duo got a monthly salary for the job. 
 
 The prosecution further said the contraband seized in Mumbai was brought from the Gujarat factory by the accused. 
 
 Special public prosecutor Rupali Shinde said there were 19 witnesses in the case and that the amount of contraband found was of commercial quantity and hence the accused were convicted. The third accused, Xie Feng, is absconding, she said.
 
 
