NEW DELHI: When a chief minister endorses irresponsible statements made on social media, it becomes a serious matter,   Arun Jaitley told   on Tuesday. Resuming cross-examination proceedings in connection with Jaitley’s defamation suit against chief minister   and other AAP functionaries, veteran lawyer Ram Jethmalani also brought up Jaitley’s defeat in Lok Sabha 2014 from Amritsar to question if that was the first time the minister put his “reputation to test” in a public election. 

 The BJP leader said that “an election result is an outcome of several factors prevailing in a constituency and not merely a test of candidate’s reputation”. He then highlighted that even Jethmalani’s client, Arvind Kejriwal, lost the same elections by 3.5 lakh votes.
 
 Jethmalani then cited tweets by academician Madhu Kishwar and former cricketer Bishan Singh Bedi to confront the minister on why they were not dragged to court for their comments while Kejriwal and other AAP leaders were sued. “The originator Madhu Kishwar you dare not sue, what do you have to say,” Jethmalani asked him, referring to a tweet of hers.
 
 Answering the query, Jaitley differentiated between statements made online by people and by those who hold public office. “Many people on social media make irresponsible statements about people in public life, but when a chief minister endorses them, it becomes a grave and serious matter. Even false allegations gain credibility. Repetition of libellous statement gives me a cause of action against the person, particularly if he has stature, to take action against that person,” he stated.
 
 When Jethmalani put it to the minister that his client, Arvind Kejriwal, only retweeted what Kishwar said in her tweets, Jaitley maintained that he never thought of suing Kishwar, but added: “the tweet is highly defamatory and repetition by the chief minister adds greater credibility to the falsehood contained in it”.
 
 Tuesday’s proceedings went on for almost two hours in the small courtroom of joint registrar Amit Kumar. It was bursting with lawyers and journalists, apart from AAP leaders, such as Raghav Chaddha and expelled BJP leader Kirti Azad. The finance minister relied on tweets endorsed or retweeted by Kejriwal to further state that “Mr Kejriwal has committed a serious act of libel through his malicious falsehood. Alleging that my wife and daughter are linked to fake companies was not only false but taking the public discourse to a very low level.”
 
 Jethmalani started his cross examination by asking Jaitley about allegations made against him by Bishan Singh Bedi of financial bungling in DDCA. He also showed to Jaitley a letter written by Bedi to PM Narendra Modi and accused him of saving his ministership only because he assured the PM he will get his name cleared by “judicial decision in my favour” against the allegations.
 
 
