KOLKATA: Several communities, for whom Kolkata is their home, are gearing up to turn into a   this weekend. New clothes, a   on the walls, a family lunch and an outing with friends top the wish list for most. Some will be welcoming the New Year by lighting fireworks, while others would sing and dance. While the Bengali Nababarsha dawns on Saturday, the city’s Malayalis and Assamese will be celebrating Bihu and Vishu on Saturday. The   observed Baisakhi on Thursday.

 The Punjabi community in the city celebrated Baisakhi on Thursday. Close to 10,000 people turned up for the celebrations at the Shahid Minar Ground. Preparations had been underway since April 11. “We had special guests from Punjab who recited the Gurbani and sand kirtans. We had a day-long langar where anybody irrespective of their cast or community can come and eat,” said Bachan Singh Saral, president of the Howrah Gurdwara. 
 
 Punjab Club also celebrated Baisakhi on Thursday evening. Members of the community celebrated by presenting traditional dance forms and exchanging greetings with each other.
 
 Women in Malayali homes in Kolkata are getting ready to wake up in the wee hours of Saturday to make Vishu Kani, an arrangement of flowers and lamps with the image of Krishna at the Centre, in either the prayer or drawing room. "We are also putting boxes of fireworks in the sun so that they are ready for use on Saturday. The offering to the deity is yellow cucumber and rice. The head of the family gives money — Vishukayineettam — to all members. On this auspicious day, all of us have vegetarian food. On Sunday afternoon, the Kairali Samajam has organised a community feast. The Puvogamana Kala Sahitya Sangam will hold a cultural event at National Girls' High School in the evening," said TK Gopalan, a prominent member of the 10,000-strong Malayali community in Kolkata and CEO of Garden High School.
 
 Members of the Assamese community will be gathering at the Assam House early on Saturday morning for the traditional Bihu song and dance ritual. It will be followed by a traditional lunch. “This year, we are celebrating the 150th year of the Assam Literary Club in Kolkata. So, apart from the regular events, we have a special programme lined up on Sunday. More than 300 members of the community are expected to take part,” said Joydeep Phukan, secretary, Tea Research Association.
 
