Mumbai: Various employee unions of the central bank have objected to the government “impinging on   autonomy” and have written to governor Urjit Patel to take action against the “unwarranted interference”.

 In a letter to the governor, the United Forum of Reserve Bank Officers and Employees said that they have read reports of a joint secretary from the finance ministry being sent to the RBI headquarters to coordinate currency operations. “If true, this is most unfortunate and we take strong exception to this measure of the government as impinging on the RBI autonomy and its statutory as well as operational jurisdiction,” the letter said
 
 “Apart from showing RBI operations and its gigantic performance in poor light, the government now blatantly encroaches on its jurisdiction, which we cannot accept. We want to state that the RBI is fully capable to coordinate the central bank’s currency chest operations,” the letter said.
 
 The employees said that they were also pained by the criticism rained on the RBI, for its operational mismanagement”, by the media and many important personalities. “Its autonomy and image have been dented beyond repair. Such critics include even former RBI governors. An image of efficiency and independence that RBI assiduously built up over decades by the strenuous efforts of its staff and judicious policy making has gone into smithereens in no time,” the letter said . 
 
 The letter sought to draw attention to the RBI Act 1934, which stipulates that the central bank was constituted lo “regulate the issue of notes and keeping of reserves with a view to secure monetary stability in India” and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the country. The employees said from 1935, the RBI has developed, perfected and expanded the currency management system in the country. The RBI has set up more than 4,000 currency chests and coin vaults. 
 
 The letter goes on to state that the central bank employees since demonetization have been doing their job diligently, right from exchanging notes over the counter, carrying treasures across the country to feeding the currency chests round the clock, including those in distant centres. “Because of their efforts an insurmountable situation is gradually coming to an ease,” the letter said. 
 
 
