HYDERABAD: Educationalists and activists lashed out at the Telangana government on Tuesday over the inordinate delay in releasing   dues. Of the Rs 4,400 crore the state government owed colleges, including for the 2016-17 academic year, only Rs 1,658 crore has been released till date. 

 Speaking at a round table conference, several academicians and political party leaders slammed the government for neglecting the education sector. Osmania University Arts College professor Visweshwar Rao pointed out that a majority of the state’s population is falls under the SC/ST category and that the fee reimbursement is a crucial scheme for enhancement of education standards of students belonging to economically weaker sections.
 
 “Only 12% of students have access to higher education because 80% of the colleges in the state are private,” Rao said, pointing out that this discrepancy is creating literacy crisis in Telangana.
 
 Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) chairman M Kodandaram also warned that if the government did not keep its word on releasing the dues, it would lead to a huge public outcry. “Students are struggling to repay loans with heavy interests. The delay in releasing dues is also leading to unemployment,” said Kodandaram. 
 
 Education activist Chukka Ramaiah also raised concerns over the delay in the release of dues. “Non-payment of fee reimbursement dues is a problem pertaining to the college managements. However, the students are suffering as their studies are being hampered,” said Ramaiah. He cautioned that the fee reimbursement scheme could make students take studies for granted. 
 
 The Telangana government owed Rs 1,560 crores to colleges for just the academic years 2014-15 and 2015-16. Rs 150 crore had been pending for the years 2012-13 and 2013-14. Post-bifurcation, the dues have been a bone of contention between Telangana and  . 
 
 In March 2016, Chief Minister   announced in the assembly that the government would release Rs 3,068 crore by 30th April. After students and managements agitated, Rs 1,658 crore was released. 
 
 While Congress leader Uttam Kumar Reddy admitted that there had been issues in releasing funds under the   regime as well, he too slammed the TRS-led government for not prioritising the scheme. Opposition parties including the BJP, CPI and the Congress assured all stakeholders that they would take up this issue in the ongoing assembly session.
 
 In October last year, private college managements had protested against the delay in giving dues which had led to the supplementary exams for various degree courses being postponed. While the government subsequently released Rs 258 crore, an additional Rs 300 crore was released later in December. “We have given multiple representations to the state government raising our concerns. We cannot protest time and again to make our voices heard on the same issue. We hope that the authorities finally wake up and address the issue,” said  , convenor of Joint Action Committee for Telangana All Private Educational Institutions.
 
 The government apathy’s has had an adverse impact on the future of students. Some college managements have even held back certificates of students demanding immediate release of the tuition fee. Owing to this, scores of students have not been able to take up government jobs. 
 
