GURUGRAM: Two years into its existence, the Allottee Grievance Redress Forum (AGRF) has barely brought any relief to aggrieved  . 

 Both buyers and officials believe the body has been reduced to another ineffective initiative as it lacks teeth to take action against developers. Currently, 940 complaints are registered with the forum.
 
 AGRF was formed by the state government in September 2015 to safeguard the interests of homebuyers and residents of Gurgaon as well as to build pressure on developers to resolve the   of investors.
 
 “For instance, in two cases where the AGRF had passed orders for paybacks to buyers, the developers — MGF development Ltd and Orchid Infrastructure Pvt Ltd — approached Punjab and Haryana high court questioning the body’s constitution,” said an official of department of town and country planning (DTCP).
 
 Even the buyers say the body is basically inefficient without execution powers. “We had submitted a complaint with the AGRF against   company MGF and despite the initial momentum, the process didn’t yield the expected result,” said   Mittal, a homebuyer.
 
 In the past two years, 940 complaints have been filed with AGRF through the district administration and another 400 via DTCP. However, there are no official figures on the cases disposed of by AGRF.
 
 However, RS Batth, the district town planner, said, “The number of resolved complaints would depend on the definition of the word ‘resolved’ because in many cases we dispose of cases asking the developer to complete the projects. How long the developer takes to complete the project post that direction is beyond our control.”
 
 Buyers disagree, saying the government has used AGRF to fool them. “The body has no regulatory powers and the chief minister himself constituted and chaired the body just to put the people in an illusion that the government is taking a tough stance against developers,” said Abhay Poonia, who had filed a complaint with AGRF against Suncity.
 
 A government official working on developer-related cases also validated the same. “Around two years back when the government came into power, it wanted an image of being tough on developers. Hence there was quite a lot of action happening on this front, eventually things have slowed down.”
 
 Additionally, a substantial number of complaints in AGRF are against the DTCP officials themselves and they are then sent to the department itself for resolution, rendering the whole process ironical. 
 
 With the launch of the Haryana Real Estate Regulation Act, the plan is to use the AGRF as a forum to address issues other than delayed possession. However, given their limited powers and an absolute crunch of resources within the DTCP, it remains to be seen how effective the new strategy will be.
 
 “As per the issues within already completed projects, the department has statutory powers, which we can use to help homebuyers,” said Batth. 
 
 
