On her recent visit to Delhi,   Chatterjee’s school principal invited her to attend their annual Convention for Educators for an interactive session with students at India International Centre. The actress, who was welcomed with a speech by the principal, said she felt like a student again.

 
 
 Suman Kumar, principal,  , told us, “She is a really good singer, so for us, she was the ‘Nightingale of Blue Bells’. I feel very nostalgic talking about her. She does what she believes in, I think her activism started in school, and she completely went off the road and chose the field she was interested in. Today, we proudly say that she is our student.” Tannishtha told us, “Whenever I am in Delhi, I meet ma’am (her principal) and it’s always so inspiring. I can’t even express how honoured I am feeling today.”
 
 
  
 Tannishtha met the school’s students, discussed their plans and answered their queries, as many students were wondering how a PCM topper landed in Bollywood. A student asked her, “Why did you study Physics in college?” Tannishtha said, “Being good in a subject also has a lot to do with your teachers, and I had great science teachers. Since I was from the PCM background, my teachers and family would have expected me to study engineering or medicine, so I studied science. And then I went to NSD, which was a life-changing experience, so I started acting, and then got into films.”
 
 
 
 When a student asked her how her academic background helped in acting, she said, “As an actor, we always try to find the truth of the character. For example, I had to play a Physics teacher (in the film  ) and I remembered how my teachers used to explain the concepts of Physics. As actors, we take many references from life. I try to understand the world through the characters I play. When you explore yourself through your work, every role inspires you! There are so many approaches to acting. It’s like Physics, where you can solve a problem through so many approaches.”
 Tannishtha also thanked her teachers, and said to the students, “Formative years are very important, and my school gave me that foundation and helped me nurture my talents with studies. Wherever we are, we can bring a positive change in society through our work.”
 
