NEW DELHI: In language   will understand, Chinese state-run newspapers' editorials said today that "Beijing will have no choice but to take off the gloves" if the next US administration " 
  ".

 Another state-run newspaper also used very American words like "rookie" to describe the  .
 
 "In the past, Trump infuriated us, but now we find him risible. With a skyrocketing ascent in his political life, he has been stunningly confident in his ostensible knowledge of the job, though he speaks like a rookie," wrote Global Times.
 
 Beijing sees   as part of China and 'One China' has been the bedrock of Sino-US relations ever since they re-established diplomatic relations 40 years ago. But US President-elect Trump has made a lot of noises about upending that policy. Late last week, Trump told The Wall Street Journal that the 
  .
 
 "If Trump is determined to use this gambit in taking office, a period of fierce, damaging interactions will be unavoidable, as 
  but to take off the gloves," the English-language China Daily said.
 
 Global Times said Trump "will meet strong countermeasures" 
  . These "countermeasures" include "reunification" with Taiwan - what the editorial didn't add was the 
  .
 
 "The Chinese mainland will be prompted to speed up Taiwan reunification and mercilessly combat those who advocate Taiwan's independence," the editorial said.
 
 By now, Beijing doesn't appear confident that all this Taiwan talk from Trump is just bluster. 
  
 "It would be good if after his inauguration Trump can demonstrate more statesmanship. But Beijing should not count on his raising the stakes being a pre-inauguration bluff, and instead be prepared for him to continue backing this bet," China Daily said.
 
 The Chinese editorial acknowledged that a Sino-US clash will be "costly", but worth it, Beijing appears to feel. 
 
 "...it will prove 
  to make the next US president aware of the special sensitivity, and serious consequences of his Taiwan game," Global Times wrote.
 
 
