PUNE: From being a student at the   (SPPU) to being a faculty, a department head and now its vice-chancellor. Nitin Karmalkar's life has come a full circle.

 On Wednesday, Governor and chancellor Vidyasagar Rao appointed him the vicechancellor of the university .
 
 Karmalkar has spent 32 years at SPPU, starting from 1982 as a student. He is head of the environmental sciences department at the SPPU and had earlier headed its geology department. He was among the five names recommended by a search committee headed by  . The Governor interviewed all the five candidates on May 16.
 
 Karmalkar said he received a message about his appointment while he was on his way home for lunch.
 
 He said, “After spending so many years at the university and passing every phase of my life from being a student to heading departments and playing several other administrative roles here, the appointment for the VC's post means addition of more responsibilities.“
 
 Karmalkar pursued masters in science (geology) at SPPU in 1982 and continued as a PhD scholar. Later, he did his post-doctoral research from Sydney and Germany .
 
 He was also the director of the internal quality assurance cell at the varsity and co-ordinator of the SPPU for the Rashtriya Uchhatar Shiksha Abhiyan, a Union government scheme. Previously, Karmalkar had also applied for the VC's posts at the   , Kolhapur and   . He was shortlisted on both occasions, but did not make it to the final post.
 
 
 
 
 Bringing together inter-re lated sub-departments under one roof will be his immediate task after taking charge, Kar malkar said. The `school' concept has been adopted by a few other universities such as the   University , Banaras Hindu University and the North Maharashtra University in Jalgaon.
 
 Karmalkar said, “With the university struggling with limited number of faculties, the introduction of the `school' concept is needed. This will also ensure optimum utilisation of resources. As part of the system, all sub-departments are brought under a main school.“
 
 He said that this would ensure academic flexibility with optimal use of available faculties and other human resources employed in a single department.
 
 
 
 
 Karmalkar expressed disappointment that the huge alumni of such a reputed university was not well networked.
 
 He said, “Not having enough network with alumni may be one of the reasons for the varsity scoring poorly in the national institutional framework rankings. If the public perception regarding the university has to be improved, I feel it should be done through the alumni. Besides, they are a great source to enhance the employability factor for the existing students.“
 
 Karmalkar said that creating an “engaged and supportive“ alumni was crucial to the institution's success. He said the alumni were the institution's most loyal supporters.By engaging them, he said, the university could still make use of their expertise, skills and experiences.
 
