LUCKNOW: Days after heavy  , stagnant pools of water are a common sight in many places in the city, as a reality check by TOI has revealed. These puddles are breeding grounds for mosquitoes, aggravating the risk of vector-borne diseases.

 Be it the absence of drains, a faulty infrastructure, clogged outlets, potholed   or low-lying areas, the reason of prolonged   varies from area to area.
 
 In Aashiana, there are over half a dozen spots in sectors I, J, K and M where rainwater has accumulated. Residents pointed out it is not just a source of infections but also obstructs vehicular movement. “In sector J, right next to my house is a vacant plot where an illegal dairy has been running for the past few years. When it rained, huge puddles were formed and with time, the water mixed with mud and cowdung, turning into a stagnant pool emanating a foul smell,” said Radhika Shukla, a resident.
 
 “Hazratganj is one of the posh localities of the city but there has been waterlogging there as well even a week after rainfall. Right behind Habibullah street, at GPO intersection and at multi-level parking, there are huge craters filled with rainwater for over one and a half weeks. It appears as if the authorities are waiting for the water to evaporate on its own,” said Yash Gupta, a college-goer.
 
 At the main Sikanderabad intersection and Qila Road in Madhubannagar, rainwater has accumulated on the roadside. The water couldn’t flow out because there are no drains. “Because water has been collected there for so long, algae has grown in it, making it too slippery. Several bikes skid there because of that,” said Nitesh Rastogi, a shopkeeper at Qila Road.
 
 Even some government offices, including the Income tax department at Rana Pratap Marg and UP Parivahan Nigam at Sapru Marg, have rainwater accumulation still. Additional municipal commissioner PK Srivastava said, “We dredge drains to clear outlet for rainwater. Wherever water has accumulated, it will dry up or get absorbed in the ground with time.” 
 
 
