PUDUCHERRY: The Medical Council of India (MCI ) has directed the   government, four deemed universities and three private medical colleges and hospitals in the Union territory to discharge (remove from the rolls of the institution) 778 MBBS students (for the academic year 2016-17) on charges of failing to adhere to the prescribed rules and norms in the admission process. MCI joint secretary Rajen dra   in an order dated September 7 addressed to the secretary (health) of Puducherry government, said the institutions had even admitted students who were not allotted seats by the centralised admission committee (Centac). 

 The institutions had also admitted students illegally after the last date of admission (September 30 every year) fixed by the   and the MCI, the letter said. Wahale asked the errant institutions to submit a compliance report within two weeks from the date of dispatch of the order. He said the council's monitoring sub-committee (MSC) launched a probe after the Puducherry UT All Centac Students' Parents' Association odged a complaint on the illegal admission of students into MBBS courses. The MSC, after analysing all material evidence including Lt governor  's letter to the MCI president and report of the permanent admission committee chairman justice  , outlined the deficiencies in the admission process. It declared that the institutions admitted students without evolving a combined merit list of Neet-quali ied students.
 
 “The directions of the SC to maintain transparency and fairness in the admission process has been totally and blatantly disregarded. Moreover , the UGC sent a letter dated September 15, 2016 to all deemed universities that they shall be part of common counselling for admission in medical courses organised either by a state government or through its agency based on marks obtained by Neet.The colleges have not followed this process even for admission made after this date. This reinforces the observation of the MSC that the transparency and fairness were probably the last things on the minds of the authorities of the colleges“ said Wahale while quoting the observations of MSC.
 
 The MSC, after analysing all material evidence including Lt governor Kiran Bedi's letter to the MCI president and report of the permanent admission committee chairman justice Chitra Venkata raman, outlined the deficiencies in the admission process. It declared that the institutions admitted students without evolving a combined merit list of Neet-qualified students. “The directions of the Supreme Court to maintain transparency and fairness in the admission process has been totally and blatantly disregarded. Moreover, the UGC sent a letter dated September 15, 2016 to all deemed universities that they shall be part of common counselling for admission in medical courses organized either by a state government or through its agency based on marks obtained by Neet.
 
 The colleges have not followed this process even for admission made after this date. This reinforces the observation of the MSC that the transparency and fairness were probably the last things on the minds of the authorities of the colleges“ said Wabale while quoting the observations of MSC.
 
 The MSC recommended discharge of all students except those who were admitted through Centac. Similarly, admissions made after the last date were termed irregular. “Hence, these candidates should also be discharged,“ he said. A spokesperson of a deemed university denied any irregularities in the admission of students into MBBS programme. “We followed all rules and norms during the admission process. There are no violations. We will send replies to the MCI's discharge notices and clarify our stand,“ said the spokesperson. A spokesperson of a private medical college said the college followed the guidelines set by Centac to admit students into MBBS programme last year.
 
