GURUGRAM: A Delhi-based   was arrested for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 2.5 lakh from a Gurgaon resident, who is facing charges under various sections of the   for ‘molesting’ his former  .

 The police said the lawyer,  , who was representing the maid, had promised to withdraw the case filed against Vinit Chawla and settle the matter amicably if the latter paid Rs 10 lakh.
 
 The maid had started working at Chawla’s house at  , a residential society in Gurgaon, in March 2015 and stopped working around a year later on the expiry of the contract. The maid, who turned 18 this year, was recruited from a Delhi-based placement agency.
 
 On June 11, the maid, with the help of Sharma, filed a complaint at the women’s police station in Gurgaon, alleging that Chawla and three of his friends had sexually exploited her. 
 
 Based on her complaint, an FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the women’s police station against Chawla, his wife and his three friends.
 
 On June 19, the two parties — the Chawlas and the maid along with Sharma — came to the women’s police station to record their statements. 
 
 At that time, Sharma allegedly approached Chawla and told him that he could settle the matter amicably. The lawyer asked him to meet him the next day at Saket district court (Delhi). 
 
 When Chawla met him, Sharma allegedly asked him to cough up Rs 10 lakh or face the consequences. After some negotiation, the “deal” was settled for Rs 2.5 lakh, police sources said. 
 
 But Chawla apparently recorded the conversation and approached the police with the “evidence” for help. Working on the complaint, cops from the Sector 50 police station laid a trap to nab Sharma. 
 
 As per the plan, Chawla went to meet him at   (Gurgaon) on Thursday night, and handed over Rs 2.5 lakh. Police said they caught Sharma accepting the money red-handed. 
 
 A case has been filed against Sharma under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 “We are also investigating if the molestation case, which was filed against Chawlas, was part of any conspiracy. The role of the maid and the agency is also under scanner,” said Sandeep Kumar, the investigating officer, at Sector 50 police station. 
 
 Sources said there was a dispute between the maid and Chawlas over some dues. “The maid had actually approached the lawyer to recover the dues. But the lawyer, instead, hatched a plan to extort the family,” said another cop. 
 
 On Friday, Sharma, who is registered with the Delhi Bar Council, was produced before a city magistrate who remanded him in police custody for a day for further interrogation. 
 
