THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   (RCC ) have taken a new turn with surgical and medical   coming out against the radiation oncologists who are agitating against the formation of multidisciplinary   ( ).

 The surgical and medical oncologists have supported the director who has issued the order that all patients registered at RCC would be evaluated by a team of doctors comprising surgical , medical gists and radiation oncologists and treatment decision will be taken by the tumour board.
 
 “The order issued by the director has been whole heartedly accepted by all other departments at RCC except the radiation oncology department,’’ said the doctors belonging to surgical and medical oncology.
 
 The doctors said that the MDTB e system is in vogue in all major cancer centres across the country and world. Complex treatment decisions in cancer needs the inputs from various specialists and this has proven to be of immense benefit for patients in all comprehensive cancer centres in the world, they said.
 
 The practice in RCC has been that radiation oncologist attends to the patients, evaluates them and decides on the treatment plan. Surgical oncologists who are concerned with the surgical part of the treatment and the medical oncologists, concerned with the chemotherapy part are mostly kept out of the decision making loop. The new order changes this old system.
 
 However, radiation oncologists said that they are protesting against the manner in which the new decision has been implemented. “The director of RCC has utilized this opportunity to revamp the clinical system in RCC. He jeopardized the experience and seniority of doctors while implementing the same,’’ alleged radiation oncologists.
 
 But, surgical and medical oncologists have a different version to this. “The radiation oncologists in the pretext of being clinical oncologist – which is a non-existent degree in India as per the MCI regulations–have effectively prevented the medical oncologist, who are super specialists, from being part of the treatment team,’’ said the doctors.
 
 
