JAIPUR: An off-field hero, watching two   being harassed by   in the  , was far too much for  , who refused to remain a mute spectator. While most around her chose to turn a  , Poonia not only confronted the culprits but also chased and held them before eventually handing them over to the police. She has now decided to fight the menace and raise awareness against eve-teasing at a public level.

 The incident happened on Sunday, outside the Rajagarh Railway Station. "The rural areas of Sadulpur (Churu) has a strong network of liquor mafia added with strong patriarchal tradition which has left the girls and women at the receiving end. I will raise the issue of safety of women at all public platforms to ensure that every girl can come out of her house and go to study without any fear,” said Poonia over phone.
 
 The incident happened when Poonia was heading for a public function in Thankeda village in Rajagarh (Sadulpur tehsil) on January 1. She saw two girls, who looked worried and afraid panicky, just outside the railway station and could sense that something is wrong. “I spotted two young men passing lewd comments and chasing them. It was shocking to see that there were 50-60 people witnessing the incident but not one came forward to help or support the two girls, who belonged to the same family. I rushed to console the girls. Despire my presence, the eve-teasers continued to harass them and made lewd gestures,” said 39-year-old Poonia, a Padam Shri awardee. 
 
 Her husband belongs to Churu and she had herself contested the Vidhan Sabha polls in 2013 from Sadulpur in Churu from Congress.
 
 Angered by the incident, she hit out at one of the eve-teasers. They (eve-teasers) could sense the trouble and ran towards the railway crossing. Unaware that they were being chased by an Olympian, one of them was hunt down by the Poonia. “My driver who followed me, caught him. I called the local police station which was 250 metres away from the spot. They came in 10 minutes and arrested the one accused hunt down by us and second eve teaser was also arrested soon,” said 39-years-old Poonia. She won gold medal in commonwealth games in 2010. 
 
 The act of heroism by a sportswoman was cheered by the crowd who identified her. However, Poonia was herself busy trying to convince the girls to file a police complaint. “Both of them broke down and requested me to keep them out of the incident. I asked why? The response they gave has left me thinking about the incident for the whole night,” said Poonia who were told that their parents might hold them guilty and will never allow them to step out from the house again.
 
 Poonia left to attend the function but made a promise to visit the house of both girls soon. While talking to TOI on Tuesday, Poonia said, “I am meeting both of them today."
 
 She states that such incident has brought to the light the main reason why girls in her region fail to complete education and remain on tenterhooks. Reiterating her commitment to work for safer society for women, Poonia reaffirmed, ''I will ensure that girls in my region will have proper transport facility so that they cannot miss classes and be safe on the road. I have fight the patriarchal mentality which leads to a victim suffering more than the accused,” said the Olympian. 
 
 
