PUNE:  , collectively worth over Rs 37 lakh, were   in   at different locations across the city since Wednesday. 

 Unidentified persons broke into a flat of former President Pratibha Patil’s relative at Nigdi Pradhikaran and made away with Rs 2.5 lakh. The incident came to light on Friday when a woman security guard of the building found the locks of the door broken.
 
 The flat at Puja Classic building near Bijleenagar Corner in Nigdi Pradhikaran is owned by Narendrasinh Patil (68). It was locked since June 30 as Patil and his wife had gone to stay with their son in New Delhi, Shankar Avtade, inspector of the Nigdi police station said, adding that the building did not have any CCTV cameras.
 
 In another incident, miscreants broke into the row house of businessman Sadashiv Banjan at Someshwarnagar in Pashan and made away with ornaments, gold biscuits and  , collectively Rs 17.3 lakh from the house. 
 
 Banjan owns a tool cutting business with workshops at Bopodi and Katraj in Pune and Shirval in Kolhapur district. “Sadashiv and his wife had gone to Mangalore on Tuesday. The incident came to light after they returned on Thursday,” police said, adding that the row house was under CCTV surveillance. However, the miscreants took away the digital video recorded of the surveillance system too.
 
 On Thursday evening, an unidentified person stole a digital safe containing cash and ornaments, collectively worth Rs 13.8 lakh, from the flat of an automobile businessman at Jashan Mahal society on Nalor Road in Koregaon Park. 
 
 Pune crime branch’s senior inspector Sitaram More said the incident occurred when the owner of the flat, Vasudev Laxmandas Meghani (43), had gone to his automobile workshop in Bohari lane in Shukrawar Peth. “His wife who runs a shop in Camp was also not at home,” he added.
 
 The incident came to light when Meghani’s father-in-law reached the flat from Camp and found that the front door was open and so was the case with a cupboard inside. The building has no CCTV cameras.
 
 Incidentally, the building’s watchman had seen the suspect parking his white-coloured scooter and going upstairs empty handed, but on his return, he was carrying a box like article. On being enquired, the suspect told the watchman that he was taking Meghani’s computer for repair.
 
 On Wednesday, miscreants broke into the flat of Baburao Sawant (43) in Rutambara Annexe Society in Narhe between 11.30am and 1.30pm and made away with ornaments worth Rs 1.80 lakh from a cupboard in the bedroom. The suspects broke the lock on the front door to gain entry into the flat. 
 
 On the same day, miscreants broke into the flat of Chitrank Agarwal in Kalpataru Harmony society in Wakad and made away with gold ornaments worth Rs 2 lakh from the bedroom cupboard. Police said the incident occurred between 11am and 10.30pm when the occupants of the flat were away at work. 
 
