TRICHY: ‘VBN 6 and 8’, the new high yield varieties of black gram developed by National Pulses Research Centre (NPRC), Vamban in Pudukkottai district, have been received well by the   With the new varieties yielding 800 kilograms per acre, consuming less water and withstanding yellow dermatology disease, the research centre has begun to popularise it among the farmers.

 VBN 6 and VBN 8 have been developed with resistance to yellow mosaic disease as a replacement for ADT 5   which was predominantly grown during the summer irrigated season. Similarly, VBN 6 has been inculcated with two to three blooming nature as that of ADT 5. The new variety would also be eligible for government subsidy related to pulses and solar-powered pumping system.
 
 Since ADT 5 variety was used by farmers for the last 10 years, the state government had stopped distributing subsidy. Following the repeated appeals made by the farming community for a new improved variety, the scientists in Vamban developed VBN 6 and 8, a senior faculty from NPRC said. As the new variety blackgram is eligible for getting subsidy from the government with high yielding potentiality, more farmers have come forward to cultivate the variety, he added.
 
 Progressive farmer Chandran said that he had obtained 800 kg per acre as yield by cultivating VBN 6 blackgram. The variety has multi-blooming nature as that of ADT 5 and is resistant to yellow mosaic virus disease, he said.
 
 Addressing the gathering, vice-chancellor of Tamil Nadu Agriculture University K   requested the farmers to select and cultivate newly released high yielding yellow mosaic disease resistant varieties. Farmers should come forward to use solar powered pumping system for irrigation which are available under subsidy scheme from the government, he said.
 
 “The increase in cost of inputs and reduction in the price of farm produce are big challenges to the farmers. Hence farmers in the respective areas should coordinate among themselves to sell their farm produce in a collective manner to fetch an attractive price”, said the chief guest and former vigilance commissioner P N Vedanarayanan. 
 
 Director, Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai V Ravi, director, Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, TNAU, K Ganesamurthy, joint director of agriculture, Thanjavur district R  , and dean, AC&RI, Echankottai,   participates. 
 
