CHENNAIi: Whether the   works or not, the   driven by the   (MoUD) has proven to be effective, say residents in several parts of the city and officials.

 The app works on specific complaints – those related to garbage dumps, non-arrival of garbage pickups, unclean dustbins, dirty or blocked public toilets or those without electricity and water, unswept roads and unattended carcasses of animals.
 
 A user of the app has to register a complaint by uploading a photo of the grievance. The complaint goes to the conservancy inspector of the particular division, who has to ensure action within 12 hours and respond with a photo of the resolved issue.
 
 “I have been using the app for some time now. Once I was passing by an area with a garbage dump that needed attention. I took a photo and sent it via the app. Within hours, I got a call asking for details, and after cleaning up the garbage, they reverted with a photo of the place again,” said Ramakrishnan Chandrashekhar, a resident of Adyar.
 
 Senior officials in the health education department said all the senior officials including the commissioner can keep a tab on the complaints, and the resolution has to go all the way to the MoUD.
 
 Officials added that officers who don’t ensure that the work has been carried out in the stipulated time are pulled up during the review meetings but admitted that no severe action is taken against them. The cases that are resolved beyond the stipulated time cause the national rank of the city to come down. 
 
 However, the number of people who are aware of the app and actively using it remains low. As per data on the Swachh city website, the total number of complaints registered in Chennai since its launch in August 2016 is 2159. Of these, 1622 have been resolved while 534 have been rejected. The total number of app users in the city is 4633 of which a huge 68% (3178) are non-active users and only 1455 are actively using the app.
 
 Due to swift action being taken on complaints registered on the app, users are hopeful that it would be an effective instrument to address civic issues. “The pressure is coming from the Centre, due to which the corporation is required to respond fast and with a photo of the resolved issue. The app has been a boon,” said Padmini Ramesh, a  
 
 
