Actor Rajinikanth, who met his fans at a five-day event, hinted that he might enter politics soon by asking his fans to get back to their duties but be ready for war. While there has been mixed response from his fans regarding the superstar's signals, popular RJ-turned-actor   expressed his doubts about   making an impact as a political leader. While a few have trolled RJ   on social media, many agreed with his views too.

 In an interview to a Tamil news channel, RJ Balaji said that he is an ardent fan of the Superstar and he watches all his movies, even though he is not a member of Rajinikanth's fan club nor has he done paal abishegam for his cut-out during his movies' release.
 
 He expressed that when he was young, he had even thought how wonderful it would have been if Rajinikanth had acted in Arjun-starrer 'Mudhalvan', directed by Shankar. After hearing various songs from his films, ranging from Muthu to Baba, RJ Balaji felt that the Superstar would come into politics and it would be great for the state. 
 
 "I have always felt that Rajinikanth is a good human being, right from my childhood. That has been the view of so many in  . Not because of his actions onscreen, but he has got an aura around him," he said and added, "I waited for 25 years for him to enter politics, but now, I have lost my patience. The fans need not get emotional about what I am saying. I, too, am a fan." 
 
 When quizzed if he was asking Rajinikanth to refrain from entering politics as it would be tough for the actor to handle the pressure, Balaji retorted, “It's not about the difficulties he would face, but what schemes can he ideate or implement now. I don't think I can expect much from him now, can I" he asked.
 
 Citing the example of cricketer Brian Lara, Balaji said, "I like   a lot. I used watch all his matches, even when the matches happened late at night. Recently, he played an exhibition match in the US, but I wasn't excited to watch him play. His time is gone, and that's exactly what I feel with Rajinikanth."
 
