PATNA: As earlier predicted by weathermen, Patna and several other parts of the state witnessed trace to light rainfall on Friday. The Met office has forecast light rain at isolated places in the state over the weekend as well.

 However, the trace/light rain did not bring much respite from the surging mercury as the minimum temperature in Patna was recorded at 18.4 degrees C, which was four notches above normal. The maximum temperature, though, plunged by nearly a single notch and came down from 34.4 degrees C on Thursday to 33.6 degrees C on Friday. 
 
 Senior officials at Patna meteorological centre said Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur and Purnia among few other places in north and northeastern   received light rain on Friday morning and predicted the same weather conditions in isolated areas of north Bihar over the weekend.
 
 A senior Met official attributed the weather conditions to a western disturbance situated over Jammu and Kashmir. “Cloud formation started in northern parts of the state from Thursday evening and further moisture incursion from the western disturbance led to trace (less than 0.1mm) to light rain in the morning. We expect similar trace to light rainfall at isolated places in north Bihar over the next 48 hours as well. Patna and other places in central parts of the state might witness partly cloudy sky during the same period,” he said.
 
 The India meteorological department (IMD) bulletin on Friday also predicted isolated rain in Bihar on Saturday and Sunday. It stated that the western disturbance as an upper air cyclonic circulation was situated over the northern parts of Jammu and Kashmir and the neighbourhood extending up to 4.5km above mean sea level.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 “We are not expecting much drop in temperature in Bihar over the next few days as dry and hot westerly winds are blowing in the region at present,” a Patna Met official said.
 
 Patna apart, Bhagalpur topped the maximum temperature chart in the state on Friday with 34.6 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature in Gaya and Purnia were recorded at 32.1 and 32.2 degrees C, respectively.
 
 
