LUCKNOW: The excitement levels were such that even the sound of the band playing out the   couldn’t halt the sloganeering. The distinctive   fluttered everywhere, and the trademark lotus was pinned proudly to even more lapels on Sunday as Adityanath Yogi was sworn in as the 21st chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. 

 The ardour was not surprising. Jumping over the barricading to enter the press gallery even when police personnel told him otherwise, a BJP supporter said, “15 saal baad aaye hain. Ab to aane do (We have returned after 15 years. At least now let us enter.)” 
 
 Supporters of PM Narendra Modi and chief minister   alternated between chanting their names, wanting their dear leaders to respond to their calls for attention. Some waved, others danced, one even showed up with his head shaved and Modi’s name and the BJP symbol painted on either side. Identifying himself as Nagendra Singh from Kaushambhi district, he said, “Modiji Dilli mein aur Yogiji yahan. Isse aacha pradesh ke liye kya ho sakta hai. (Modi at the Centre and Yogi in the state, there nothing better for UP.)”
 
 While the crowds inside alternated between ‘Jai Shree Ram’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, smaller support groups who couldn’t gain entry into the grounds despite their best efforts stuck up a more colourful chorus outside. Groups of youth in saffron outfits chanted: “Tu hai to Kashi Hai, Tu hi UP ki Rashi Hai, Yogi tere liye hi har shabbashi hai”. 
 
 Even the mid-afternoon heat couldn’t douse the excitement; BJP supporters began pouring in at 11am , while residents living around the   filled out their balconies, cell phones in hand, to catch a glimpse of the saffron leaders. 
 
 The large crowds around Kanshiram Smriti Upvan also led to some nighmarisht crowds outside the swearing in venue. Around 2pm, Union minister of state Anupriya Patel’s car was stuck at a crossing outside Gate number one. The enthusiatic followers used it as an opportunity to request Patel to roll down her windows and pose for selfies with her car. Confused cops, in the meantime, played spoilsport, letting the car move on after verifying her car pass. Later, cabinet minister Rita Bahuguna Joshi was also stopped. Her cars was allowed to enter through another entrance instead. 
 
 Small businesses though had a field day on Sunday. With giant crowds of supporters, hundreds of makeshift food and beverage stalls came up outside Smriti Upvan overnight. Vendors said their sales had shot up as a result of the huge gathering. 
 
 
