AMARAVATI: Upping the ante ahead of the  , YSRC chief   has said that if his party is voted to power it will impose prohibition in the state. He said liquor ban will be implemented in a phased manner.

 Addressing the party’s plenary on the concluding day on Sunday, Jagan declared nine sops chiefly targeting the farmers, women and youth. 
 
 Jagan announced that he would gift Rs 50,000 to each and every small and marginal farmer in the state. “We will give Rs12,500 to farmers in May to the farmers to help them take up agriculture activity. The amount will be credited to the farmers’ accounts,” he said and promised to cover nearly 66 lakh farmers in the state through YSR Bharosa scheme for the farmers. He said that the his government would dedicate about Rs 33,000 crore for farmers’ welfare under the scheme. His government would set up a price stabilisation fund with Rs 3,000 crore and calamity fund with Rs 2,000 crore. 
 
 Lashing out at   for crippling the farm sector by not implementing the debt waiver scheme as promised before the last elections, Jagan said the failure of the government had pushed the farmers into a debt trap. He said that   had spent just Rs 11,000 crore on debt relief which was not even sufficient to clear the interest on the old dues. 
 
 He said that Naidu had actually promised to clear Rs 87,000-crore loans owed by the farmers to the banks. 
 
 Jagan promised to increase the welfare pension amount to Rs 2,000 from the present Rs 1,000. The state government is giving welfare pensions to elderly people, widows and the physically challenged. 
 
 Making another attempt to woo women, the YSRC chief promised to write off loans of women’s self-help groups (SHGs) in four phases. He said that they would take measures to see that all women groups get loans at zero and 25 paise rate of interest. He said that they would bail out all the 89 lakh members of women self-help groups with loan waiver.
 
 Promising to grant educational incentives to the poor for sending their children to school, the opposition leader in the assembly said that the government would bear the entire cost of higher education of children hailing from the economically backward families.
 
  Unlike the restrictions imposed by the Naidu government, the   would totally reimburse the college fee for professional courses, he assured.
 
 Besides, financially weak students would be paid Rs 20,000 per year towards accommodation costs, Jagan said
 
