NAGPUR:  , a 58-year-old widow, is seeking justice for her only son James who committed suicide on April 25 following repeated humiliations by constable   and woman constable Bridgette James, alias Suzy, in full public view at his workplace. Ajay is son of head constable Yeshwant posted at   where, incidentally, the case is being probed.

 James’s father had died of cancer around nine months ago and now Elizabeth was completely dependent on her only son. Elizabeth, a tenant, has no support left in her life now. She also said her son wanted to shift after being threatened by the cops. 
 
 James, who worked at a gym, seemed to have more than a friendly relation with neighbour Bridgette who is posted as woman constable at police headquarters. Ajay, posted at polices’ motor transport department, had thrashed James repeatedly at the gym, allegedly at the behest of the woman constable. 
 
 “Bridgette and her family had borrowed Rs40,000 from James which too they did not repay,” said Elizabeth talking to TOI on Friday. 
 
 She wants the police to arrest the culprits and suspend them immediately. “They used their power, influence and identities as police personnel to insult my son. In fact, the male cop was in khaki trouser who made my son sit down as ‘murga’ at his workplace before thrashing him with a helmet,” she said. 
 
 Elizabeth said her son’s mobile phone handset was taken away from her home by Bridgette’s mother Jyoti and her son Lucky, which was spotted by the neighbours who told the cops about it.
 
 Elizabeth wants to know why the investigating team has failed to recover her son’s mobile phone handset from the two constables who had connived to thrash James twice at the victim’s workplace. “The mobile phone has crucial evidence in it which could have proved Bridgette’s involvement. She is misleading the cops now,” she said.
 
 James’s family have also claimed that the mobile phone had several ‘selfies’ clicked and sent to the deceased by Bridgette. There were also some recorded conversations which James wanted Bridgette’s mother Jyoti to listen to but she had refused.
 
 Residents of Martin Nagar are set to now visit the office of the city police chief   seeking justice for James.
 
 It’s reliably learnt that Bridgette has claimed before senior officers about being harassed by James which prompted her to take help of Ajay. “Only the mobile phone of my son had the real truth. Police are now shielding their own personnel,” she said.
 
 
