DHARAMSALA: A cricket series marred by foul-mouthed verbal jousting and ill-tempered accusations saved its most contentious moment for last when   declared his relations with the Australian players had been permanently damaged.

 Counterpart  , meanwhile, apologized for some of his "actions" during the series, which also saw the `Cheatgate' DRS controversy, while simultaneously lambasting   for releasing a video of Aussie players indulging in a tasteless sledging of Man of the Match and Series  .
 
 India's dramatic 2-1 series win, which came after an 8-wicket win in the fourth Test on Tuesday, was almost overshadowed as the captains had a go at each other's teams.
 
 Kohli, in particular, sent out an unequivocal message that this Indian team, the world's No. 1 in Tests, would not tolerate Aussie-style constant needling any longer.
 
 Before the series began, Kohli had said in Pune, "I'm really good friends with all these guys off the field. When you step on to the field, I could be playing against my big brother it wouldn't matter. I know them (Aussies) really well. I know where to draw the line."
 
 On Tuesday, asked if he still held on to that notion, Kohli shook his head and said, "No. It has changed. I thought that was the case, but it has changed for sure. I've been proven wrong. The thing I said before the first Test, that has certainly changed and you won't hear me say that ever again."
 
 Kohli's assertion raises important questions about whether the ICC has done enough to stop on-field sledging. Has the game's governing body been lazy in assuming that young cricketers, living in the high-pressure bubble of international sport, are capable of leaving spats and rivalries on the field of play?
 On the flip side, Kohli has probably taken the boldest step yet made by any non-Aussie international captain, telling the Australians in no uncertain terms that they must make changes to the way they approach their job on the field.
 
 It seemed all the bad blood would be swept under the carpet as   shook hands with Steve Smith, who went on to offer an unexpected apology of sorts during the presentation ceremony, saying, "I've been pretty intense through this series... I've let my emotions and actions just falter a bit throughout this series and I apologise for that."
 
 Moments after apologising, though, Smith was at his ambiguous best, expressing hurt at the BCCI's decision to release a video of the conversations between Ravindra Jadeja and  .
 
 "I was a bit disappointed that the BCCI sieved through the archive to find a conversation on the field that was happening between Matty and Jadeja. Usually what's said on the field should stay on the field... the guys are going to say things here and there, their emotions are going to be high."
 
 Smith, however, had nothing to say about the need to sledge Jadeja so hard in the first place. The BCCI website has had a go at Smith earlier in the series during the `Cheatgate' controversy .
 
 This time, Wade is seen talking Jadeja down, "How come you don't get picked outside India? Why is that?" Then Smith chimes in, saying, "This'll be his (Jadeja's) last Test for a while, they're going away . You don't deserve to play anywhere but here because you're useless."
 
 Jadeja said Wade's barbs had spurred him on when he went in to bat.
 
 Kohli has been a combative, in-your-face skipper who has made it clear this Indian team won't back down if provoked. "We are a team that talks," he said, "This team, we speak, we give it back to them." He also criticized selections of the Australian media, saying, "A wise person told me that when a person is down, the weak come out and speak about him. I was targeted individually ."
 
 The irony of it all is that the IPL begins in a week's time, and Smith will have Ajinkya Rahane and R Ashwin in his team. "I said see you next week, he's in my team for the IPL," Smith said when asked by Australian TV what he discussed with Rahane while shaking hands. "I asked if he wanted to come in for a drink at the end of the series. He said he'd get back to me."
 
 Will he, though, having heard Kohli's take on the matter?
 
