SHRAVASTI: From a computer operator at Shravasti district hospital to tracking TV news and advertisement in the graveyard shift – 10 pm to 6 am – Yaduvansh Kumar’s life has suddenly acquired dollops of excitement. He is part of a rag-tag crack team -- media certification and monitoring committee – that tracks news, advertisement, and of course,   in the ongoing elections.

 At Shravasti’s two-room setup at DM office, if Yaduvansh tracks TV, Malkhan, from local information department and Saurabh Katiyar, from TB prevention department, keep a hawk-eye on  . And Kunwar Bahadur, the man who keeps tab on social media is motivator at a local village panchayat. There are several like them in the team, which works round-the-clock to keep daily record of candidates’ expenditure.
 
 Scanning through Friday’s local newspapers, Malkhan has a ‘Eureka’ moment. “Mil gaya...paid news,” he shouts. It’s a story in a Hindi daily about a Bhinga candidate. The headline carries the candidate’s claim of a wave of support in his favour. “It’s so one-sided...bound to be paid news,” Malkhan is convinced. The clipping is punched promptly to a separate file.
 
 “We will contact the editor of the paper. He will have to explain. In similar instances in the past, a newspaper came out with the explanation that candidates from all parties were given same opportunity to speak about their chances. If in this case too the newspaper publishes stories based on other candidates’ interview too, we will consider it normal, otherwise the newspaper will be charged for publishing paid news,” he said, pointing towards a pile of newspapers he has to scan everyday.
 
 There is another team – consisting of staff from the treasury department, good at maths, which collates the data sent by the field squads to calculate each candidate’s expenditure on the basis of a ‘rate card’ which has every possible expenditure likely to be incurred during a poll campaign–from Rs 3,000 for a medium-size gate to Rs 500-2800 for loud speakers and amplifiers depending on the size of the rally; and from Rs 5 for tea and samosa to Rs 30 for puri-sabzi, campaign workers are likely to be fed, every single expenditure in under scanner.
 
 The field teams keep an eye on campaigns and rallies and provide inputs like how many vehicles were used, how many gates were put up, the number and size of the banners and hoardings and even what kind of refreshments were given to the people taking part in meetings and rallies. Each input is then converted in terms of expenditure as per the readymade rate card. This expenditure is then tallied with the figure submitted by the candidates to arrive at a final count.
 
 If elections nowadays are devoid of colour with missing posters and hoardings which used to cover a city’s skyline, some credit—or blame—should go to these backroom boys, who are working silently across the state. Operating from each of 75 district headquarters, they are the eyes and ears of the   helping it maintain transparency.
 
