PATNA:   CM   and his political strategist in last assembly election,   have shown his reluctance to continue as the adviser to chief minister Nitish Kumar. 

 Kishor, who was instrumental in Nitish’s strategy in the 2015 Bihar assembly election after massive defeat in the 2014 Lok Sabha poll. Interestingly, he had shot into the limelight as the poll strategist of PM Narendra Modi in the general election. Kishor has not returned to Bihar since April last year. 
 
 Sources close to Kishor confirmed that he has already conveyed to Nitish his inability to continue as the CM’s adviser. “He never took a penny or claimed any perk from the Bihar government as the CM’s adviser. Since Kishor has his own engagements and is not in a position to justify the position given to him by Nitish, he informed him about his unavailability for the job,” the source said.
 
 When asked about the privilege of a cabinet minister Kishor enjoyed as the CM’s adviser, the person close to him said, “It is for the government to take a call. If asked to resign, he will do it formally as well.”
 
 However, in political circle, it is being claimed that Kishor’s decision is a fallout of the BJP-JD(U) alliance. 
 
 Sources in chief minister’s office ( ) said they had information about Kishor unavailability for his engagement in Bihar. “Ever since the Bihar Vikas Mission was formed in January last year, he attended only one meeting and that too for just 10 minutes,” said a source, adding, “Now, when the JD(U) is in alliance with the BJP, which was left by Kishor to support Nitish before the 2015 assembly polls, there was no way he could have continued here.”
 
 The source in CMO admitted that Nitish and Kishor will continue to have good relation because of personal rapport between them. “Kishor lived at the CM’s residence when in Patna and both have a very good relation, which has nothing to do with political alignment or financial benefit,” said a source. 
 
 At present, Kishor is in Andhra Pradesh to help Jagan Mohan Reddy in his political plans. 
 
 
