PATNA: The probe report that led to the institution of an FIR against the then   (BAU) VC,  , for alleged irregularities in the university appointments in 2012, has revealed brazen arbitrariness and bungling in the  . 

 Now a ruling JD (U) MLA, Choudhary has since been suspended from the party.
 
 According to the report, 23 appointments were made on the post of assistant professor-cum-junior scientist, but none of the candidates had good academic records. Nor had they cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) of University Grants Commission.
 
 The probe report of Justice (retd) Syed Mohd Mahfooz Alam of the Patna high court also says two outsider candidates were appointed against the quota for insiders, which was illegal and invalid. 
 
 The report was submitted to the   on December 3 last year, based on which principal secretary to governor E L S N Bala Prasad wrote to BAU on February 16, directing legal action against Choudhary for evident irregularities, manipulation, interpolation and bungling. 
 
 An FIR was lodged against Choudhary and others on February 21 in Sabour police station under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty), among others, based on a complaint submitted by the BAU registrar.
 
 Senior BJP functionary and former deputy CM   has demanded immediate arrest of Choudhary. “The inquiry committee has found the charges against him true and accordingly legal action has been recommended by the governor,” said Modi. 
 
 As for the appointment of non-NET candidates, the probe report says the university statutes say only candidates having a “good academic record” with at least 55% marks at Master’s level can be appointed. However, a close scrutiny revealed at least 17 of the 23 candidates had not secured even 40% marks at the Master’s level.
 
 With regard to the authorties’ claims of audio-visual presentation by candidates in the interview, the inquiry report says nine experts in the selection committee told Justice (retd) Alam that none of the candidates gave a presentation through CD.
 
 The probe also found true the allegation of favouritism by interpolation, manipulation and wrong entries in the records pertaining to the educational qualification and experience of the candidates.
 
 
