LUCKNOW: As the   of   begins on Tuesday, the   are in for a formidable challenge from a belligerent Opposition already armed with law and order issues, such as killings of five Brahmin youths in Rae Bareli, caste clashes in western UP and “unfulfilled” promises of the BJP in its election manifesto.

 Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi’s ability to counter the Opposition would be put to test this time, because the first session for passage of GST did not see much protest.
 
 Monday witnessed a series of meetings, including with the business advisory committee headed by Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit, an all-party meeting led by the chief minister, legislature party meetings of the ruling BJP, SP , BSP and Congress and of others to chalk out strategy for the budget day.
 
 The mood of the Opposition was reflected in the all-party meeting called by the Speaker and also attended by chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, where the Opposition strongly protested against the brief budget session. Also, the principal opposition party, Samajwadi Party, stayed away from the meeting as the leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary did not attend the meeting saying he was fast on the first Monday of Shrawan. The party did not send any other leader as replacement.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the Speaker said the business advisory meeting which was attended by representatives of all political parties and it was decided that discussions on the state’s budget for the financial year 2017-18 should take place on Wednesday and Thursday. He said all members of the committee had promised to allow the House to run peacefully and he was expecting cooperation from all parties.
 
 Yogi government has been at the receiving end outside the House on law and order issues and Opposition has decided to raise it vociferously during the session. The ruling party, on the other hand, is armed with cases of alleged corruption during the SP and the BSP regime.
 
 SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary told TOI that his party would play the role of constructive opposition and raise issues of public interest. Congress MLA Aradhana Mishra confirmed to TOI that her party would raise the law and order and farmer-related issues. She said women and girls had been assaulted in many places in the state and police have not registered their cases, so her party would take up the issue.
 
 
