Lucknow:   by Union health ministry from admitting students, management of nine medical colleges in UP filed petitions either in the   or Allahabad high court for permission to continue running their colleges.

 The nine colleges started operations over the past three years and most of them began admitting students for the MBBS course from the 2016-17 academic session. In June, during inspection, Medical Council of India found facilities at the nine colleges substandard and debarred them from admitting students and running the courses.
 
 Five of these colleges are in western UP, two in Lucknow, while two are in Sitapur and Sultanpur districts. Trustees of one such institute on the Lucknow-Kanpur highway were arrested by  , along with retired high court judge as they allegedly tried to influence government functionaries for favourable orders.
 
 According to sources, the central agency is going through details of petitions the nine colleges have filed before SC or Allahabad HC. Sources said CBI was examining call detail records of trustees of the nine colleges to identify government functionaries who had been in touch with them while their matter was taken to Allahabad HC.
 
 The Supreme Court is also looking into the role of two Allahabad HC judges who have entertained plea of GCRG institute of medical sciences in Lucknow. Before the latest controversy, GCRG remained in news for accepting 14 cadavers from Dera Saccha Sauda without death certificates. 
 
 On Thursday, CBI arrested two trustees of Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences on the Lucknow-Kanpur highway, along with retired judge of Orissa high court I M Quddusi, along with three more persons.   was Allahabad HC judge for almost a decade before being transferred to Odisha in 2004. He served as acting chief justice of Orissa HC before retiring in 2012. Some of the colleges that are under the scanner have backing of influential politicians.
 
 LIST OF UP COLLEGES DEBARRED 
 
 Major SD Singh College, Farrukhabad
 
 Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Science, Amroha
 
 Varun Arjun Medical College, Shahjahanpur
 
 Krishna Mohan Medical College, Mathura
 
 Glocal Medical College, Saharanpur
 
 GCRG Institute of Medical Science, Lucknow
 
 Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow (trustees arrested)
 
 Saraswati Medical College, Unnao
 
 Hind Institute of Medical Sciences, Sitapur 
 
 
