Mumbai:   chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya has said that the bank now expects nearly 40% of the   that have come in following demonetization to remain in the bank. The deposit surge and the slowdown in lending have prompted the bank to launch a slew of retail loans, including “insta top-up” on mortgages and “bridge” loans for those who want to upgrade homes but don’t yet have a buyer.

 Announcing the new schemes on Monday, Bhattacharya said that the bank was likely to postpone the merger of its associate banks with itself to March 30 as this would require changes in IT systems. 
 
 “We stop all modifications to the IT systems in mid-February as it can have an unforeseen impact. We do not want to take chances when our accounts are being finalized,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 According to Bhattacharya, a clear indication on how much money would remain in the system would come up after limits on withdrawal are removed. The SBI chairman added that she expected normalcy to return to the   system by end-February or March and the bank would take a decision on reviewing its savings account rate in April.
 
 SBI has added Rs 1.65 lakh crore to its deposit base since demonetization. This has resulted in the share of current and savings accounts (low cost deposits) in total deposits rising to 47.6% of total deposits from 42.7% earlier. But the bank’s loan book has not seen any increase during the period. “If we move from government bonds, which give us a return of over 6% into loans, we immediately get a step up of 2% on our spreads,” said Bhattacharya, explaining the rationale for launching new loans.
 
 Insta loans are in the form of top-ups on existing home loans which the bank claims it will disburse in a day. These top-up loans will be available at 9%. Similarly, the bank plans to sell bridge loans to those who have not yet finalized sale of their existing flat but want to seal a deal on a new one. The bank will offer one year bridge loans at 10.45%. Car loan rates have also been reduced to 9.1-9.25%.
 
 Bhattacharya said that the bank has introduced a special scheme under whihc borrowers can get home loans at 8.5% for the first year and at rates linked to the floating rate benchmark subsequently. “This is not a teaser rate. A teaser rate by definition is one that is below the marginal cost of lending rate (MCLR) or the Base Rate,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 
