GURUGRAM: Two months after registering an   in the forest area near   in Surajkund, Faridabad, the builders began construction once again late night on Sunday. A temporary structure, consisting of four poles and a shed, was erected in the area. It appears the structure will serve as a shelter for labourers, indicating further construction work will begin soon.

 The forest department on January 3 demolished the boundary wall that had been erected on the plot and later filed an FIR against unknown individuals for carrying out illegal construction.
 
 Faridabad-based environmentalist Jitender Bhadana, who reportedly notified the forest department about the illegal activity in January, once again raised the alarm on Sunday night about the renewed construction activity. “The shed was erected late night on Sunday. It’s shocking that fresh construction started over the same plot, with an FIR already registered two months ago. Neither the forest department nor cops had any provision to check the illegal activity in the area, where violation has already taken place,” said Bhadana.
 
 Bhadana alleged authorities and cops are trying to protect the offenders, as their names have not come to light even two months after the FIR was registered. “In an email, the Faridabad authorities were guided by the office of the chief minister and the state chief secretary to take strict action on any illegal activities in the area, but unfortunately no action has been taken by any department. It sounds absurd that even after two months, police are yet to track the names of offenders, while fresh construction takes place,” he added.
 
 An official in the forest office of Faridabad told TOI, “The department was informed about illegal construction at 1am on Monday, and immediately sent a team to inspect the spot. 
 
 But when they reached the spot along with cops, the labourers ran away on seeing them. Orders have been given to raze down the structure.” According to locals, the construction was carried out by the owner of a banquet hall. “Lots of banquet halls have come up in the area in the last 3-4 years. It was also an attempt by the banquet hall owner to encroach upon the land,” said a resident, requesting anonymity. The area is protected under sections 4 & 5 of Punjab and Haryana Land Protection Act (PLPA) 1990. Non-forestry activities are strictly banned in the area.
 
 
