HYDERABAD: The  , for the first time since coming to power two and a half years ago, appears to be suffering from a misplaced sense of infallibility. The crackdown by the TRS-led government and its use of the city police as its foil to thwart the Prof M Kodandaram-led TJAC rally by the unemployed on Wednesday, is a pointer to such a thought process.

 Wednesday's pre-dawn near-violent arrest of   from his house smacks of a desperate attempt to protect TRS' carefully built narrative that Telangana, under its tutelage, is overcoming decades of victimisation by Andhra rulers.This narrative broadly rests on the premise that that the   led government is keeping every promise it made before the elections and during the long agitation that eventually saw creation of state of Telangana.
 
 The TRS apparently finds it near blasphemous that anyone can question this narrative and even worse, stand up to it and demand an explanation as Kodandaram has done. This saw the occasional sniping at Kodandaram by the party's attack brigade -comprising the odd MPs, MLAs, MLCs and a few ministers -over the past couple of weeks take an urgent tone.
 
 Suddenly , the man who was the one-time TRS mentor, whose coat-tails the TRS rode on to reap widespread support for its statehood agitation, was labelled as a `politically unemployed' man seeking to create unrest in the state to gain promi nence. And the TRS had been holding the political parties that ruled united AP responsible, before and since the state's formation, for the plight of Telangana.But it is only a matter of time before voters are expected to begin questioning this line of attack.
 
 Four years in power, before the fifth rolling around leading to the   elections in 2019, mean the TRS will likely need a new villain that it can take its shots at. And the TRS is currently bereft of any noteworthy political opposition in the state, having successfully organised the haemorrhaging of   and TDP by luring many of their leaders and cadres into its fold. The current crackdown on Prof Kodandaram can be viewed through this prism.
 
