NEW DELHI: Many   turned big losers with the notification of the list of reserved wards on Wednesday. While many of the   and Congress stalwarts will be barred from contesting from their strongholds, all seven seats belonging to AAP are out of the reservation list.

 Former Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay, councillor of Malviya Nagar, and Safdarjang Enclave’s Shailendra Singh Monty will not be able to seek re-election from their current wards as both have been reserved for women. A popular BJP face in the south corporation, Monty claimed he had worked hard to make his ward a better place. Former north corporation mayor Ravindra Gupta’s seat, Karol Bagh, and Yogendra Chandolia’s Dev Nagar have also met with a similar fate. The former leader of house in the east corporation, B B Tyagi, also can’t contest from Kishan Kunj.
 
 The councillors affected by reservation are struggling to figure out their next move. “I am in no mood to contest from another seat, but nobody can defeat BJP here,” Monty told TOI.
 
 The disappointment extended to the Congress camp as well. Nizamuddin, the ward of Farhad Suri, leader of opposition at the south corporation, has been reserved for women. Suri, also a former mayor, said he might contest from another ward. In the north corporation, wards such as Rani Bagh and Kishan Ganj have been affected, said leader of opposition Mukesh Kumar Goel.
 
 Though hit less than BJP, Congress is also unhappy. “The election commission did not accommodate our suggestions for reservation,” said Goel. However, Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken said, “We accept the list and have requested party leaders to find suitable candidates.” BJP’s Ashish Sood said the reservation had comprehensively covered scheduled castes.
 
 Seat change is often not easy for big guns with most banking on personality-based polling in their wards. “Base change creates a lot of bad blood because every seat has strong ticket seekers,” said a BJP functionary. Powerful male councillors often field women family members to beat the reservation list. 
 
 Sources said some of the big leaders might contest from newly created wards in the neighbourhood. 
 
 While Congress is confident about winning the civic polls after 10 years, the ruling BJP hopes to counter the anti-incumbency factor. BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who was overseeing the delimitation exercise for the party, said it would gain from delimitation as Outer Delhi, where BJP had fared well during the 2013 assembly polls, had seen a sizeable increase in the number of wards. 
 
 AAP, which considers the civic polls crucial, is likely to focus on youths. Promising not to field any ‘dummy’ candidate in the women seats, a party member said, “Seats for women were reserved to aid in their empowerment.”
 
 
