PANAJI: It may have been a painful seven-year long wait for the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Goa to get land from the state government for its permanent campus. But it was an equally agonising period for the state government waiting for the Union human resources development (HRD) ministry to implement its promise of exclusive reservation of seats for Goans. The wait for both is finally expected to come to an end from the upcoming academic year 2017-18, sources said.

 Soon after being elected to power in 2012, during his previous term, chief minister Manohar Parrikar set the precondition before the HRD that Goans should get 50% exclusive seat reservation at the  , as the state was acquiring land for the institute to establish its permanent campus entirely at the cost of the state exchequer. HRD officials gave their nod for implementation of the decision the same year, but the decision, which was to come into force from the academic year 2012-13, only remained on paper.
 
 The new NIT Goa director Prof Udaykumar R Yaragatti recently met the chief minister and, sources said, that the issue is close to resolution. Goa is set to get 40% exclusive seat reservation at the NIT and the remaining 10% seats will be reserved for students from Dadra Nagar Haveli, Diu and Daman, and Lakshadweep. Sources said that the decision is expected to be implemented from 2017-18.
 
 As per existing format, states and union territories, where the NIT is located get a home state quota for its students. But Goa until now shared the reservation of 50% seats at the Goa NIT along with Dadra Nagar Haveli, Diu and Daman and Lakshadweep, which was not agreeable to the state government as it has acquired 4.50 lakh sq ms of land at   spending an estimated Rs 30 crore for the NIT Goa to set up its permanent campus.
 
 The process of land acquisition was completed in March 2016. “But the state decided to hold on to the land as the HRD had not yet fulfilled its part of the promise,” said a source.
 
 Since the NIT Goa began operations in 2010, it has been functioning from its temporary campus at the   at Farmagudi.
 
 “NIT director and the CM at their meeting also discussed about expanding facilities for the NIT with the use of prefabricated structures at its temporary campus till the time the institute gets the land at Cuncolim,” said a source.
 
