BATHINDA: Perturbed over a key witness in the killing of Dalit youth Bhim Tank turning hostile, his mother, Kaushalaya, has accused the state government of giving ample time to accused liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda and his nephew Amit to influence witnesses in the case.

 Demanding a lie-detector test on witness Ranjit Rana, Kaushalaya said on Sunday that though Doda was lodged at Fazilka sub-jail till January this year, he was able to meet people illegally over there and influence witnesses in the case.
 
 Bhim was brutally killed at Doda’s farmhouse at   near Abohar on December 11, 2015. Bhim’s associate Gurjant Singh, too, was assaulted. Rana, Gurjant’s brother, was the one who took the two to the hospital. 
 
 Rana had deposed before a Fazilka court on February 9, but did not say that Doda was involved in the case. Kaushalya said Rana had earlier claimed that though Doda was not present at his farmhouse on the day of the killing, he was the mastermind in the murder. “But now Rana has retracted from his statement. We have recordings of Gurjant and Rana where they are blaming Doda for the crime. We want a lie-detector test on Rana,” she said.
 
 Talking to mediapersons at her residence, Kaushalya said police and state government gave liberty to Doda to stay put at Fazilka jail and influence witnesses in the case. “The fact of giving undue facility to Doda was authenticated when Fazilka deputy commissioner Isha Kalia raided the jail on January 4 and found 24 persons inside it meeting Doda in the DSP’s office without a valid entry permit, well after the stipulated time,” she said.
 
 Accompanied by an “action committee” formed against Bhim’s killing, Kaushalaya also produced a video clip where Gurjant and Rana are putting the blame on Doda. She said we would approach the police soon to investigate why Rana retracted from his earlier statement against Doda. Doda surrendered before police in January 2016. He was shifted to Amritsar jail after the January 4, 2017, raid at Fazilka jail.
 
 Doda’s brother Avinash, when contacted, declined to comment. He said the Tank family could make any type of claims. Rana was not available for comment.
 
