Chennai: Trouble between the Tamil film   and the Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI), a conglomeration of several film industry workers’ unions, which has come into the open now, has a chequered history.

 Increasing cost of production and unreasonable conditions laid down by FEFSI led to a major flare up about two decades ago, resulting in the intervention of Tamil Nadu government to sort out the issue. But, intermittent skirmishes remained part and parcel of life between the two bodies ever since.
 
 Despite vested interests stoking fire from time to time, the industry had carried on. It could be different this time. An young and aggressive team headed by actor   is at the helm of things in not only the producers’ council, but also the actors’ association. They are going about sorting out the mess, left uncleared for long.
 
 While FEFSI had called for a strike from Tuesday, August 1, 2017, the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC) has reiterated its stand to go ahead with the planned shootings with or without FEFSI affiliated workers.
 
 “We are not against FEFSI. We are not against the workers. We never said we will not work with FEFSI workers. We will work with them also,” actor-producer Prakash Raj, who is also the vice president of TFPC, told reporters on Monday evening. He described FEFSI president, R K Selvamani as “a good hearted soul”, trying to bring some order into the way FEFSI has been functioning. “But we wonder, whether he is in control,” he added.
 
 “We are only against the unreasonable conditions being laid down. We want the right to decide how many workers we will employ for a given task. FEFSI’s strike call is only for Tamil films and the workers are free to work for documentaries and ad-films in Tamil Nadu, as also other language films across the south. They will work with all, but we have to work only with them? This is what we are against,” he added.
 
 Interestingly, for the first time, despite FEFSI calling for a strike, about seven to nine films that had already planned their shooting schedules, have decided to go ahead with it. TFPC is geared up to ensure unhindered shooting and to prevent any untoward incidents.
 
 TFPC also received a shot in the arm, when by Monday evening three workers’ unions – Cinematography, Choreography and Stunt direction – expressed their support to film producers and to participate in the shootings. “This is the first time, where some unions part of FEFSI, have decided to go against its call,” said a producer, who did not want to be quoted.
 
 
