KORAPUT: Three decades have passed since the   (UKMP) was set up but   still pines for his 12 acres of lush green agricultural land. The displaced - mostly members of the Paraja tribe or dalits - gave up their land for a better future but are now struggling to survive. 

 Originally a resident of  , which was submerged by the Kolab reservoir in the Eighties, Burudi now lives in Camp-6 - one of four rehabilitation camps for those displaced by the project in Kotpad block. "We sacrificed everything for power and water but here we are, unable to get even safe drinking water. Three of the four tubewells in the camp are defunct. We have to wait in long queues to fetch water from the lone tubewell or be content with the polluted stream water," he rued.
 
 Burudi belongs to one of the 88 families of Khiloput who were displaced in two phases - in 1988 and 1991 - and settled in Camp-6, around 70km from the Kolab reservoir. Each family was given three acres of land for agriculture but this, Burudi said, was of little use to them. "The land is infertile. We have to depend on rain for cultivation even though there is a canal near the village. Our land is slightly elevated and the canal water does not irrigate it," said Moula Patro, another displaced person at the camp.
 
 The area is a picture in contrast. Opposite the camp lie green paddy fields irrigated by the canal, while the land allotted to the villagers, behind the camp, are bone-dry. Camp-6 neither has an anganwadi centre nor provision for health services. Villagers have to trek for 7km to reach the nearest health centre in Kotpad.
 
 "No one listens to our pleas. Owing to the apathetic attitude of the authorities, at least 40 families have left the camp in phases. Only 48 families stay here now," said Chaitanya Patra, another camp resident.
 
 With no scope for agriculture, residents eke out a paltry existence as farmhands and daily labourers in Kotpad. The only thing that has changed in the past 30 years is that the barren land they had been settled in has become greener.
 
 According to reports, more than 50,770 people from 149 villages were either partially or fully affected by the UKMP. More than 3,000 families from 57 villages were displaced by the project but only 424 families opted to live in the rehabilitation camps in Kotpad block. "I had 16 acres of land in Khiloput and lived happily until the reservoir turned everything topsy-turvy. I came to this camp in 1988. During monsoon, we do marginal farming but during summer, we sit idle," said Harihar Nayak, another resident.
 
 Each family received a compensation of Rs 14,400 when they were displaced and but paid it back to the government while buying land. "We paid Rs 2,140 per acre for the three acres allocated to us in the camp. We paid Rs 1,000 for our transportation from the village to the camp," Nayak said.
 
 When asked about what they want from the government, the answer was unanimous - dignity. The residents said they wanted the rehabilitation camps to be recognized as a revenue village and given a name. "The government should prepare a long-term action plan for the displaced," said Sanjit Patnaik, secretary of SOVA, a Koraput-based voluntary organization that helps the displaced fight for their rights.
 
 When contacted, sub-collector (Jeypore) Chakravarti Singh Rathore said, "I will personally look into the matter. The problems of drinking water and irrigation at the camp will be addressed on a priority basis."
 
 The Rs 160-crore UKMP was commissioned in 1984-85. It has two main canals; the right one has a command area of 46,049 hectare of agricultural land and the left, 1,936 hectare. There are four of turbine generator units of 80MW each and the total installed capacity of the project is 360MW.
 
