NEW DELHI: Rajiv Kumar Verma did not think twice before leaving the comfort of his corporate office for the heat and dust of Naraina’s bylanes. Candidate of the Swaraj India party for the municipal polls, Verma once found politics distasteful but embraced it because, he says, “unless upright youth with integrity enter politics, our politics will remain unchanged”.

 Like this deputy manager of an engineering equipment manufacturing company in Delhi, doctors, engineers, company executives, chartered accountants and other professionals have left their jobs behind to try their hand at politics. “It will strengthen the roots of democracy in India,” opined Dr Anisha Gupta, 25, who practises at the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and is the Congress candidate in the Mubarakpur Dabas ward.
 
 Gupta is among the 210 new — and educated — faces that Congress chose after disregarding the claims of established politicians. First in her family to stand for elections, she was goaded by her patients’ painful stories of non-existent civic amenities in their localities. “I consulted my father and he suggested I take up politics if I wanted to change the system,” said Gupta. 
 
 Mechanical engineer Abhinav Mishra’s interest too lay in serving the people. The 24-year-old AAP’s candidate in Rohini has worked with Maruti and Sunblaze companies as production manager, but decided his calling was politics.
 
 Moved by the raw deal that women often get in society, Shilpa Kapoor, an MBA and media professional, left her job to try and become a people’s representative. She won her first battle when Congress chose her for the Keshavpur seat in south Delhi. Like her, Vikas Kumar Singh, a doctor, realised that “only when you join politics can you change the political system”. Already mulling a public role since the 2011 anti-corruption agitation, the doctor from Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital has put in his lot with the freshers at the hustings.
 
 Away from their comfort zones, these candidates have found politics a tough proposition, but remain undaunted. “I spend over 15 hours every day meeting people, holding public meetings and conducting door-to-door visits,” said Gupta. “This is difficult, but full of excitement too.” Another young woman, Swati Rana, an HR manager with a recruitment firm, did not have enough savings to run an election campaign. “I had to borrow money from my father,” disclosed the 28-year-old first-timer with no family background in politics. She has roped in her husband to help with electioneering.
 
 Political leaders were both taken aback as well as energised by the newfound interest of the youth in politics. Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken told TOI he was amazed by their enthusiasm this time, and BJP’s Praveen Shankar Kapoor said his party has responded by giving young people the opportunity they were seeking.
 
