NAGPUR: As listeners tuned into their favourite FM radio stations on Tuesday morning, they were greeted by static hiss rather than a chirpy radio jockey’s voice. From 7.30am to 9.30am, all radio stations in Nagpur, including government’s   (AIR), went silent as their common transmission tower located at   was shutdown for a technical inspection. With no prior information about the shutdown, FM listeners equated the radio silence with the ongoing cyber attack called Ransomware. 

 Younis Hussain, a radio listener said, “I tuned into Radio Mirchi around 8am and there was nothing playing. I scanned through other channels but again it was blank. Just a day before I received messages on WhatsApp about the global virus that’s infecting computer systems. I thought this is probably that one.” Another radio listener, Dr. Sanjay Dachewar, said, “Even I wondered if at all this shutdown of all FM channels was in any way related to the cyber attack worldwide.”
 
 Fortunately the radio transmission blackout had nothing to do with the rampaging cyber virus but rather with a feasibility study of the common tower. All radio stations in Nagpur use the same transmission tower, owned by Doordarshan, to broadcast programmes. Tower sharing, known in technical jargon as Common Transmission Infrastructure ( ), helps private FM channels to optimize resources and save on expenses. The government, too, earns revenue by allowing these companies to use their infrastructure.
 
 A source in the DD office told TOI that the two-hour inspection on Tuesday morning was part of a process to ultimately upgrade the transmission tower in near future. The official said, “A team of experts, that came from outside Nagpur, were checking the technical and physical stability of the tower and will now assess if the planned upgrade is possible.” The team of experts included government officials plus senior academicians from a reputed  . “The upgrade will require antennas to be installed on the tower hence checking structural stability is important. This tower was installed in 1986 and is 110 meters tall. Of this, 66 meters is made of reinforced cement-concrete while the remaining part is of metal,” said the official. 
 
 The inspection is being termed as a ‘massive exercise’ by DD. The official said, “This was an in-depth inspection and the entire exercise was successfully completed. The team will give their report to our seniors. There’s no transmission shutdown planned in the near future.” 
 
 
