Today marks the 10th anniversary of a special moment in Indian cricket history. On September 19, 2007, as India faced England in the inaugural ICC World T20,   created history by becoming the first man in the world to hit six sixes in an over in   internationals. On the receiving end of Yuvraj's brute force was  . The moment has since become one of the most iconic ones in Indian cricket. We spoke to Yuvraj Singh, for whom it became a career-defining moment, about the events that led to it and the memories associated with that day. Reflecting back on the day, Yuvraj says, "It's been 10 years since the six sixes; it's been a long time. I still feel just as young. It’s been a long journey but the memory of that day is quite fresh in my heart. It was really a great day."

 
  
  The series of six sixes that Yuvraj hit in September 2007
 
  What made the performance special for Yuvraj was that it came after a run of bad form, both for him and for Indian cricket. Prior to that game, Yuvraj had been under a lot of pressure to save his place in the Indian side.
 
  He recalls, "I was getting a lot of flak for not scoring enough runs before that in the tournament. Also, we had just lost badly in the World Cup a few months before that. We were not playing so well and we were a young team. We didn't have greats like Tendulkar, Dravid, or Ganguly on our side (for the World T20). It was a difficult time for Indian cricket, which made that moment even more special for me."
 
 
  
  Yuvraj Singh
 
  In the game, Yuvraj had a heated altercation with England’s   minutes after he came to bat in the 18th over of India's innings. In the very next over, Yuvraj took out his anger hitting Stuart Broad for six sixes. Yuvraj admits that even though it was the fight that led to the six sixes, he was not being impulsive. He tells us, "It was unplanned but not impulsive. I treated each ball on its merit and somehow it all fell in place," says Yuvraj.
 
 
  
  
 
  Talking about the one take-away he has had from one of the most important innings of his life, Yuvraj says, "At that time, people didn't have a lot of expectations from us in the World T20. We had just been eliminated in the first round of the 50-over World Cup and now, we were without any of the big names in a new format. At that point, it was important for us to believe in ourselves because it’s important to believe in yourself when people stop believing in you. That innings gave me the confidence that if you believe in yourself, regardless of how many obstacles you face, you can achieve anything."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
