Nagpur: At a time when man-animal conflict is at its peak in Brahmapuri in Tadoba landscape and demand for translocating tigers growing from certain quarters, wildlife experts have issued a note of caution stating there can be no short-term solutions like this.

 Experts working in the field for years feel translocating tigers, which are used to hunting cattle, will not solve the conflict but only shift it elsewhere. Moreover, new tigers will take the place of relocated ones.
 
 Even as tiger translocation is being pushed, state’s chief wildlife warden AK Misra is not in a hurry. “We are discussing various solutions.   are too close to human areas. Shifting them would mean creating more problems in other places,” he said.
 
 “We are thinking in a holistic way to deal with the problem by capacity building of staff, introducing latest monitoring techniques, and reducing cattle population, among other things,” said Misra. 
 
 Experts think the same way. Long-term conservation needs to involve all stakeholders and local people at large. At the same time, people need to have faith and trust in the forest department. “Probability of conflict with translocation of tigers is more as new tiger occupying the vacant area will not know the area well and hence will come into conflict. Secondly, shifting such tigers to new areas will mean putting that area at risk,” says Bilal Habib, tiger scientist with Wildlife Institute of India (WII).
 
 Habib said these tigers were not maneaters. They attacked people when humans came within critical distance of the animal. Present Padmapur sub-adult tigress T27-C1 may be trying to establish its territory besides her mother’s which has space limitations and hence the problem. “Though lifting of tigress will build consciousness among people for time being, translocation needs discussions rather than impulsive decisions. It needs a long-term strategy,” Habib said.
 
 Wildlife expert Kishor Rithe agreed that one needed to look at the basics of wildlife science. If you vacate four tigers, an equal number will occupy empty space. “The problem in the landscape is not tigers or crowd but cattle, which are an easy prey. One cattle equals the weight of four chitals,” says Rithe.
 
 Rithe called for livestock development on a large-scale. The administration should ensure no cattle graze in forest. Stall feeding of cattle should be taken up in a massive way. “There are already government schemes in place but I fail to understand why cattle population is not being reduced by stall feeding,” he asks.
 
 Habib too admitted that livestock population needed to be controlled in Tadoba landscape. People are happy with more livestock as earlier they used to get Rs2,000 towards compensation for cattle kills but now they get Rs10,000.
 
 Even wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said translocation was not advisable without long-term policy. “This will create additional burden on other areas,” he added.
 
 Rather than translocation, the department should maintain corridors to tigers can safely move out. Fortunately, Brahmapuri forests are well connected to Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR), Umred-Karhandla and Pranhita & Chaprala in Gadchiroli.
 
 Wildlife crime expert Nitin Desai felt tiger conservation was at crossroads. What was always treated as a problem of too few is turning into a problem of too many in some areas like Brahmapuri, he said.
 
 “Wildlife managers, scientists and policymakers should put on their thinking caps to work out both short and long-term plans. Short-term measures may include population management and conflict mitigation while long-term may include securing corridors for natural dispersal,” Desai said.
 
 
