MUMBAI: “It hurts, man, it really hurts,” replied Mumbai skipper  , while pointing to the ‘three Lions,’ on his crest, after being quizzed on how he and his team was feeling after being beaten by   in the   at the Holkar Cricket Stadium last Saturday.

 The Mumbai captain won’t dispute the fact, though, that in a season plagued by injuries and poor, inconsistent form of key players, the team actually did well to reach the final in the first place. Frankly, compared to their ruthless title-winning run last year, the defending champs dished out a performance which was, to put it plainly, ‘thanda’ (cold).
 
 Their top run-scorer,   (725 in 10 games@42.64), finished 16th amongst the top run-getters, while their top wicket-takers, pacer Shardul Thakur and left-arm spinner Vijay Gohel (27 wickets each), were not even in the top 35 list of the   this time. It reflects the fact that they lacked consistent, top-notch performances which win you the competition.
 
 By his own lofty standards which he set last year by becoming the top run-getter in the Ranji (1321 runs@73.08, with four hundreds), Iyer endured an ordinary season, managing just two centuries. The 22-year-old subsequently failed to win a spot in the Rest of India (ROI) team. Both Iyer and Suryakumar Yadav (715 runs in 11 games@39.72) fired occasionally, and disappointed with their shot selection at times.
 
 The two players who stood out with their exceptional performances were ironically the youngest and oldest members of the side. Prithvi Shaw arrived with a bang, slamming a match-winning hundred on debut in the Ranji semifinals against Tamil Nadu. The 17-year-old followed that up by cracking 71 & 45 in the final, regaling everyone with his breathtaking stroke-play. At the moment, though, the youngster is a work-in-progress, and needs to work on his shot selection, fielding, and running between the wickets.
 
 Abhishek Nayar, showed once again what a valuable component he is in the Mumbai team, scoring runs and taking wickets consistently. The 33-year-old started off the season by hitting a match-winning, unbeaten 45 to help Mumbai beat TN, and finished by taking 17 wickets in the knockouts, apart from scoring a fighting 91 in the final.
 
 Sadly, apart from Shaw and Shubham Ranjane, who scored a match-saving, unbeaten 76 against Bengal at Nagpur, the other young turks which Mumbai tried failed to live up to expectations. Jay Bista (106 runs in fourgames@15.14), Armaan Jaffer (44 in three games@7.33) can argue that they didn’t get enough opportunities, but both need to make their chances count. 
 
 The failures of Bista and Jaffer meant that once Akhil Herwadkar was out due to injury, Mumbai were struggling to solve the ‘opening problem’ till Shaw arrived. The selectors too contributed to the problem by treating the slot like a game of ‘musical chairs.’ Instead of giving Bista and Jaffer a longer run, they went back to the likes of Kaustubh Pawar and Kevin Almeida, who were both disappointing.
 
 Paceman Shardul Thakur was good, but didn’t find the kind of success he enjoyed in the past two seasons. Clearly, he missed Dhawal Kulkarni, who could play merely three games after being hit by injury, at the other end. Balwinder Singh Sandhu is highly effective with the ball is new, but loses sting, due to lack of pace, once it becomes old. Tushar Deshpande looks impressive, but has shown the tendency to bowl too many no balls.
 
 In the spin department, Vijay Gohel’s emergence is a welcome addition. The 21-year-old left-arm spinner took eight wickets to help Mumbai beat Hyderabad in the quarters, but must learn to bowl sides out on good wickets too- as his inability to pick even a single wicket in the final, on a sporting track at Indore showed.
 
 Lastly, their shoddy show in the field in the summit clash, which saw them drop six catches, must make the Mumbai players work harder on this extremely crucial aspect of the game. A good fielding coach, perhaps, is the need of the hour.
 
 
