NASHIK: Despite the various measures taken by police to ensure that   does not go in favour of people accused of various crimes, the   bureau (ACB), Nashik division’s conviction rate stands at a poor 10% in the first four months of this year. Of the the 29 cases that have been disposed this year, the court has acquitted suspects in 26 cases.

 At the state level also, the conviction rate was low at 12% during January to April.
 
 The police administration and the ACB officials have been undertaking workshops for their personnel on how lacunas can be avoided during investigation, which would increase the rate of conviction. Investigating officers were also educated on gathering technical evidence and using modern techniques.
 
 Investigating officials were also instructed to do negative vetting of chargesheets before submitting them in courts to avoid giving the benefit of doubt to the accused.
 
 The poor conviction rate would only encourage corrupt officials and employees to further indulge in unlawful activities.
 
 A senior ACB official said, “A lot of things decide the outcome of a case, which includes the investigation, way in which the case is put before the court, role of the prosecution officer, role of the complainant, and the way he or she faces   and re-examination.”
 
 “Nonetheless, we scrutinize the judgement of each and every case to find out what were the important things that led to a conviction or acquittal,” the official added.
 
 A number of workshops are organized for the ACB personnel on the techniques of how to put up a case, gather evidence, etc. Police and the ACB have also deputed personnel known as ‘pairavi adhikari’ (prosecution officer) at all courts to keep a tab on the cases that would be coming up for hearing so that the investigating officer concerned is informed. The officer is then supposed to keep all the evidences ready and also brief the complainant and witnesses beforehand so that they do not falter while giving their statements in the court.
 
 Over the past few years, the ACB officials are also relying heavily on electronic evidence to establish the demand of bribe from government officials and employees. However, all such things have not helped in the outcome of the cases.
 
 The ACB officials said it was generally the lack of evidence or evidence in question that went in favour of the accused. They said they did not believe that they ended up framing charges against  
 
