PATIALA: The incharge of   police post,  , has been suspended for mishandling the face-off between followers of Sirsa’s Dera Sacha Sauda and Sikhs in Marouri village under Samana subdivision of   district on July 23. 

 Samana remained tense even on Wednesday as hundreds of Sikhs along with Sarbat Khalsa-appointed ‘jathedars’ Baljit Singh Daduwal, Dhian Singh Mand and Amrik Singh Ajnala reached Gurdwara Garhi Sahib and held a protest.
 
 To keep the situation under control. Patiala range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Sukhchain Singh Gill reached the spot to pacify the protesters. Gill said he had received a memorandum from the Sikh organizations and asked the Patiala superintendent of police (investigation) to look into the allegations levelled by them.
 
 The Sikh bodies have alleged that the cops had illegally detained two baptised minor Sikh boys, who were kept at the crime investigation agency (CIA) building at Samana. Denying the allegations, Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) S Bhupathi said action against the police post in-charge had been taken as he had “mishandled” the situation.
 
 “On July 23, there was some altercation between the two groups following which the Mavi Kalan police post in-charge failed to deploy additional force at Marouri. It was also reported that the in-charge reached the spot late for which disciplinary action has been taken against him,” the SSP said.
 
 Some Sikhs had barged into the venue where the dera followers were holding a congregation in Marouri on July 23 and had disrupted their proceedings by brandishing swords. Later, the police had registered a case against 14 persons under sections 295-A (hurting religious feelings), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 As the radicals started gathering at Samana, police sent reinforcement from the district headquarters to Gurdwara Garhi Sahib and the area was cordoned off to prevent any untoward incident. The situation was later defused after the DIG held a meeting with “jathedars” and assured action as per the law. Meanwhile, Daduwal claimed four Sikhs were still in police custody and demanded their immediate release.
 
 
