It looks like Coimbatoreans have a new activity to look forward to on weekends. With flea markets becoming a fad in the city, it’s not only the shoppers who are an excited lot, but also youngsters, who are looking for an alternate leisure activity. The icing on the cake is that these markets are now not only restricted to bringing   from across the country under one roof.  , music, fun games and food have upped their ante and thus, flea markets are becoming a huge draw among youngsters as well.

 
 
 Entrepreneur Aparna Sunku, who regularly displays her works at shopping expos, tells us, “Flea markets are a novelty in the Coimbatore market unlike the metros. The biggest advantage is that it is providing us more reasons to shop. Earlier, shopping was restricted to special occasions, but with shopping expos and flea markets becoming common, one does not need a reason to indulge in retail therapy.” Balaji Krishnan, who recently organized a summer night market in the city, adds, “We wanted to add some spice to the shopping experience and hence, organised live performances at the venue. We also brought in bands to enthrall the audience here. The idea was to bring to Coimbatore all those entertainment options we looked forward to experience as children. As elders indulged in retail therapy, youngsters had their share of fun with the performances.”
 
 
 Shweta Pandey, who had come all the way from Madhya Pradesh, to exhibit her art work at a   in the city, informs, “I had heard that Coimbatore had lot of takers for art. I deal with an art form titled Pramodya, which is a contemporary art form designed with a fusion of madhubani, warli, gond and bhil to name a few. Lot of people have trouble understanding the works in its original form. Hence, I give them a contemporary twist. Flea markets like these help us to spread the word across.” S Renuga Devi has been exhibiting her eco-friendly hand-made products regularly at the flea markets in the city. “Though the sale at the event is not great, we get visibility. People take our contact details and call us when they need our products. The kind of products we keep on display also varies according to the venue. For instance, if the market is at a club, we have to cater to the kind of shoppers who frequent clubs. We start planning at least two weeks in advance. At places, where we cannot afford to rent a stall on our own, we share it with another.”
 
 
 
 The biggest draw for youngsters at flea markets perhaps is the entertainment options. “Coimbatore doesn’t have many options for weekends. A flea market with some short eats and good music is a great way to spend an evening. I accompanied my mother at a recent expo. As she strutted around the shops, I managed to have fun with my friends, “says 19-year-old Vinod N. Aparna Sunku adds that flea markets provide yet another platform to budding  . “My daughter recently performed at a flea market and was easily able to connect with the crowd. Flea markets have a mixed crowd and it helps them get noticed as well. The more options one has to showcase one’s talent, the better for them.” 
 
 
 Though flea markets are playing a crucial role in bringing different creative platforms and artisans together under one roof, it seems to have hit local talents. Aparna says, “Though we have our regular customers, the influx of entrepreneurs from other cities has definitely been a setback for us.” Renuga Devi adds, “People tend to look for novelty, and hence, the stalls from other cities have an edge over us .However, we earn pretty much the same as them as they have to shell out more on the rentals and accommodation. But their presence at the markets, does affect us.” 
 
