LUDHIANA: An unemployed man stabbed his four-year-old son to death and injured his wife and two other children at   in Khanna on Friday.

 Subhash Mandal, 24, a native of Bihar, was tired of penury and suspected his wife of having illicit relations.
 
 The deceased was identified as   and the injured as three-year-old Vikas, one-and-a-half-year-old Parvati and wife of the accused, Sarita.
 
 Police said Subhash was unemployed for the past about a month and in a state of depression, besides he also suspected his wife of having illicit relations with a neighbour. Around 1am on Friday, an upset Subhash first stabbed his son Shivam with a vegetable knife and then his other two children. As his wife tried to intervene, he attacked her too. She ran out of the rented room and raised the alarm. Neighbours caught hold of the accused and called the police control room.
 
 While some of the neighbours pounced on a fuming Subhash, others rushed to help the bleeding children and their mother. They, somehow, managed to overpower the accused and tied him up with a rope.
 
 The police took the accused into custody and the injured to civil hospital in Khanna. From there, doctors referred them to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.
 
 When they reached Patiala around 2am, Shivam was operated upon, but he died on the operation table.
 
 Khanna city SHO inspector   said the accused was arrested and booked under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. "The condition of the other two children was stated to be stable. Their mother was discharged after treatment," he added.
 
 Police said the accused, who was the sole breadwinner of the family, had come to Khanna about six years ago and since then was living in a one-room rented accommodation at Kartar Nagar.
 
 Sarita said she did not know what provoked Subhash to take out a knife in the night and attack the children. "He stabbed the children repeatedly," she said.
 
 Suraj Kumar, another migrant who accompanied Sarita to the Patiala hospital, said, "We heard loud cries at night and soon the area residents reached Subhash's house. Initially, we could not make out what had happened as there was a brief power cut. But as the power returned, we were shocked to see children lying in a pool of blood and Sarita crying in pain."
 
 Meanwhile, the doctors said the children were brutally stabbed in the abdomens. 
 
