NEW DELHI: After Supreme Court’s adverse remarks on evidentiary value of   diaries on alleged payment of bribes to politicians,   ‘Common Cause’ through advocate   submitted income tax appraisal reports to try and substantiate allegations and persuade the court to order a thorough probe.

 A bench headed by Justice   had last month been sceptical of the diary entries as “zero evidence” while commenting that he had knowledge of ‘fictitious entries’ being made by the Sahara group to show refund of illegally collected funds from investors. Bhushan had sought time to produce the I-T department’s appraisal report that was prepared after questioning officials of the two groups.
 
 Bhushan also referred to the order of income tax settlement commission on the   case saying the commission has settled the issue despite evidence of a grave criminal offence and this required the setting up a special investigating team.
 
 In the fresh application, Bhushan extensively quoted from the voluminous I-T appraisal report that was prepared on the basis of documents   had seized from   group during simultaneous raids on the company’s premises at New Delhi, Mumbai, Secunderabad and Bhubaneswar on October 15, 2013, in connection with allocation of coal block to Hindalco. The I-T department had raided Sahara group’s offices in Delhi and Noida on November 22, 2014.
 
 A top official of the Aditya Birla group was questioned by the IT department after it found his laptop to contain an email dated November 16, 2012 with the cryptic entry “Gujarat CM - 25 crore (12 Done - rest?)”. When questioned about it, the top official said: “I used abbrevation ‘Guj CM for  .”
 
 This official had owned up the Rs 25 crore, which was allegedly recovered during CBI raid, as his personal money but could not substantiate its source, Bhushan said quoting the I-T appraisal report. “The report runs into four bulky volumes. A perusal of the report and the documents annexed to the report show commission of offences of bribery, corruption and black money.”
 
 Bhushan also repeated the earlier charge that records seized during raid from Birla group had allegedly revealed “payment or proposed” of Rs 7.5 cr made during January 9, 2012 to February 2, 2012 under “Project-JEnvironment & Forest”. He said MoEF during November 8, 2011 and June 17, 2013 had cleared 13 projects of Aditya Birla group companies.
 
 Keeping in view the earlier reluctance of the apex court to order probe into these diary entries, the NGO said: “The circumstances make out a more than adequate case for directing a credible and independent investigation as per the law laid down by Constitution Bench in Lalita Kumar Case, in which it was held that police must register FIR when commission of a cognizable offence is disclosed to it.”
 
