KOLKATA: Heart patients in the city may not get the proportionate price advantage of the lowering of stent prices by up to 85% as private hospitals get ready to hike associated charges to keep the procedure viable.Some even hiked their package costs recently anticipating the cap. Hospital sources said doctors' fees and other related costs may be raised to partially offset the sharp drop in the implant cost.

 On Monday , the   issued a notification capping the price of drug eluting stents (DES) at Rs 30,000 and that of bare metal stents at Rs 7,500.
 
 The hospitals would invariably raise costs as “an anticipatory balancing act“, felt cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. “I can almost predict a propor tionate hike in hospital charges and doctors' fees. But even if the overall cost drops by 20%-25%, it will benefit a lot of patients,“ said Sarkar.
 
 Most private hospitals were guarded about the eventual drop in package costs even as they claimed the advantage will be passed on to patients.“We are still looking into the costs structure and will soon work out the actual prices. But we shall definitely pass on the benefit to patients,“ said Rupali Basu, CEO, Apollo  , which charges Rs 65,000 for a three-day stent implant package, excluding the price of the stent. While stent prices have been slashed with immediate effect at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), package prices remain unchanged.
 
 “We have honoured the NPPA regulation. No decision has yet been taken on the revision of package costs. It will have to be reviewed in consultation with all our units across the country ,“ said R Venkatesh, directoreast, Narayana Health.
 
 AMRI Hospital is yet to figure out the final package prices. “Since there has been a drastic reduction in stent prices, there should be a substantial price drop,“ said CEO  . While welcoming the cap, B M  , too, refused to disclose the new package costs. “We all know that the pharmaceutical companies charged exorbitantly for stents. This will rationalize the expenses,“ said Shanti Bansal, vicepresident. She, however, refused to elaborate the likely new package costs. Approximately , 2000-2500 stents are implanted in Kolkata every month. While a vast majority of these are drug-eluting ones, bare metal or non-drug coated stents are also used. Most countries have stopped using them since they often lead to complications and have been found to be generally ineffective. Experts argue it is better to opt for a bypass surgery than use a non-drug stent.
 
 A price cap could eventually help prevent unnecessary implants, pointed out Kunal Sarkar. “Around a fourth of all stents are implanted without good reason. They could either have been substituted with medicines or with a bypass surgery . With the prices slashed, there will now be no incentive to recommend them,“ said Sarkar.
 
 So, the price cap may not actually lead to a rise in the number of implants, he argued. Cardiologist Sudeshna Lahiri agreed. “While this move will definitely help patients, we must wait to get a clearer picture about the price advantage,“ she said.
 
