MEERUT:   is contesting as an independent from   constituency in  . Mavia Ali, the sitting MLA from Deoband, is contesting on a   (SP) ticket. Fatima and Ali happen to be married, and this is not the first time that they are contesting against each other. Fatima had contested the 2016 bypolls too, when Ali was elected MLA from Deoband.
 
  Why do they keep contesting against each other? Their daughter Mariyam Ali says it’s a free country and anybody can contest. “So, what if they are contesting against each other? My mother is her own person and she has the right to contest. Their famed political rivalry doesn’t bother us at the dinner table where we make a happy family,” Mariyam said.
  
  However, Mariyam's claim of Fatima being ‘her own person’ doesn’t quite add up. Before Ali was elected MLA from Deoband in 2016, he was the chairperson of Deoband town municipality. In the following municipal elections, Zaheer Fatima won, and it was Ali himself who had done most of the campaigning. “She is also a development-oriented person like her husband. She is only taking forward the good work that Mavia Ali did as chairperson,” said Usman Sheikh, a close aide of Ali.
  
  When Fatima contested the 2016 assembly bypolls against her husband, she managed to get only 455 votes, while Ali had won with 51,000 votes. There was only one candidate who received fewer votes than Fatima. “It’s not like they are against each other. Elections are a democratic exercise and anybody can take part in it,” said Haider Ali, the couple’s son.
  
  The Fatima-Ali household has maintained a stark silence over the issue and did not want to talk about the fact that Zaheer Fatima is contesting against her husband. “It is a non-issue. The issue you should highlight is Mavia ji’s development work. He has worked very hard for the development of the region. That is what is important,” said Usman Sheikh.
  
  A source close to the family said, “She (Zaheer Fatima) is not actually contesting. They had filled up the nomination form for her just to play safe. In case Mavia Ali had not got the ticket, she would have contested the polls with gusto and her husband would have taken charge of her poll campaign. I think that this had been the thought process the last time as well.”
  
  When TOI contacted Mavia Ali and Zaheer Fatima for their comments, they declined to speak on the issue.
