PATNA: Though BJP-led NDA wants Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to sever ties with RJD following the Supreme Court verdict on Monday against its chief Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case, it remained non-committal on welcoming the ‘Sushasan Babu’ back to its fold. 

 As RJD is a part of the three-party grand alliance in Bihar and Lalu has suffered a big blow from the Supreme Court which reinstated criminal conspiracy charges against him in a fodder scam cases, political pundits believe the   is in a wait-and-watch mode and not giving much importance to the possibility of Nitish’s return to the NDA in which he had been a partner for 17 years in Bihar.
 
 Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi said it was for the party central leadership to take a call in case Nitish decides to seek BJP help to save his chair. But the former deputy of CM Nitish also said the BJP with its allies would be able to form the next government with two-thirds majority in case of midterm elections in Bihar. “Though I do not see any possibility of Nitish coming back to the NDA, the central leadership will take a call if he decides so,” Modi said.
 
 BJP state president Nityanand Rai also said any decision on supporting Nitish, in case of a rift in the grand alliance, would be taken by the party central leadership. “Nitish can go to any extent to remain in power, even at the cost of tarnishing the image of the state by forming alliance with corrupt leaders. Still, if he wants to come back to the NDA, the BJP central leadership will take a decision in this regard,” Rai told TOI.
 
 Former minister and another senior BJP functionary, Nand Kishore Yadav said Nitish should first clear his stand with regard to how low he can stoop to continue with his alliance with maligned parties for remaining in power. “Nitish’s sushasan (good governance) claim has been proved shallow and now he is himself in the dock,” Yadav added.
 
 Union minister of state (independent charge) for skill development and entrepreneurship, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, said Nitish stood exposed for joining hands with tainted leaders to remain in power. “People of Bihar have lost trust in this government and it cannot survive for long,” Rudy said. 
 
 However, former Bihar CM and Nitish’s bête noire Jitan Ram Manjhi said the NDA should support Bihar CM in forming government in case he seeks help after breaking alliance with Lalu and his RJD.
 
 
