NEW DELHI: The CBI informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that Congress leader   and others would face action soon for running a high-pitched campaign in   against   chief minister   based on falsehood and forged documents. 

 Singh had moved a writ petition before the Supreme Court in 2015, which was argued by top lawyer-leaders of Congress, seeking forensic examination of the documents, including the hard disk recovered from the office of Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board or Vyapam. The CBI had informed the court that the documents and the seized documents were sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad, for scrutiny and that the report suggested no tampering.
 
 On Wednesday, the CBI in its affidavit through advocate R Balasubramanian told the SC in response to a petition by Vyapam 'whistle-blower' Prashant Pandey that "the present petitioner, in his petition, alleges tampering of one of the computer hard disks seized by Indore Police on July 18, 2013".
 
 "Digvijaya Singh had filed a writ petition before the Supreme Court making similar allegations and the prayer in Pandey's petition and Singh's petition are almost identical. The SC in Singh's petition had transferred investigations into Vyapam scam and also cases related to deaths, which were allegedly linked to Vyapam, to the CBI," the agency said.
 
 It said it had sent both the hard disk and the pen drive given by Pandey to the CFSL, Hyderabad, for examination, which did not find any truth in the tampering allegations made by Pandey and Singh. "The investigation conducted by the CBI had also reached the conclusion that the allegations of tampering of the seized hard disk were false and that some of these persons making such allegations were found to be indulging in creation of false digital records in the pen drive and on that basis, making false complaints," the CBI said.
 
 "The CBI would be taking necessary steps/actions against the culprits in accordance with law, for making such false allegations and creation of false documents," the agency said.
 
 Singh in February 2015 had claimed to be in possession of a pen drive that purportedly contained the telephone number of Chouhan and his wife and alleged exchange of messages between them and some of the Vyapam scam accused.
 
 In April 2015, Chouhan had told reporters that "sometime back, a group of senior Congress leaders, led by Digvijaya Singhji, followed by  , Jyotiraditya Scindia, Kapil Sibal along with noted lawyers (K T S) Tulsiji and Vivek Tankha, had claimed that the excel sheet submitted by Special Investigation Team in the high court and the CM's name mentioned at 48 places was found to be replaced by other names. Now, the court order has maintained that the excel sheet submitted by Digvijaya Singh is fake and forged." 
 
 Chouhan in 2015 was reacting to the HC order in the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) scam. "Digvijaya Singhji took the help of forged documents (excel sheet) to taint my image and that of my family members in the scam," Chouhan had said. 
 
 
