COIMBATORE: Lawyers should not encourage corruption at any level in the legal system and if all the lawyers stand against it, corruption will be rooted out from the top level of the judicial system, said   L Nageswara Rao. “Other things will be rooted out automatically,” he said while addressing judicial officers and lawyers on ‘Role of Trial Court Lawyers in Dispensation of Justice’ organised by the   here on Saturday.

 There is no difference between a trial court lawyer or a high court or   lawyer, Nageswara Rao said. “There were such differences in 1858 when presidency courts and mofussil courts were functioning. After the formation of constituencies, there has been no difference among the lawyers. Trial court lawyers are more important because they are the interface of the profession with the public. They lay the foundation of criminal and civil cases, which comes to higher courts. The practice of trial court lawyer is much more difficult than appellate court lawyers. They have to answer their clients, deal with judges in the initial stages and their payments are really not good,” he said.
 
 “In India, law is a profession of livelihood. The country has around 13 lakh lawyers and competition has grown among the lawyers. As per the law commission report, around 25% of lawyers have joined the judicial system in the last five years. As it is difficult to continue in the profession, lawyers should develop their efficiencies,” he said.
 
 Over 52,000 cases are pending in Coimbatore district for the last two years, Nageswara Rao said. “The situation is somewhat better than other states. In Uttar Pradesh alone, 10 lakh cases are pending before the courts and many cases are pending for more than 10 years. Many criminal cases from 1970s and 1980s are pending before the high courts in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Lawyers from Sambalpur in Odisha have been boycotting the court proceedings for two days per week for the last 25 years demanding a high court bench. That has been brought to the notice of the Supreme Court. Already, lakh of cases are pending before courts and the pendency has to come down. So, the lawyers should avoid boycotts,” he suggested.
 
 Retired Supreme Court judge C Nagappan unveiled the portrait of senior advocate late KA Ramachandran at the event. Madras high court judges N Seshasayee, Sureshkumar and various legal officers and judges attended the function.
 
