By 
 

 BENGALURU: It’s a Tuesday morning and you probably don’t have the time for philosophic questions. But maybe that’s exactly why you need to answer this question: What does Bengaluru mean to you? What does   bring to mind? Is it the traffic? Is it the curiously frothing Bellandur Lake? Is it the greenery? MG Road? Pubs?
 
 Artist Prathmi Mehta’s question to you is “What makes Bangalore?” and it sits at the   upon a board with 36 things that are very ‘Bengalurean’. Your job – should you choose to take it up – is to pick a thread from a tray nearby and join the dots to answer that question. It’s fascinating to see how the city is interpreted in myriad ways by its residents.
 
 Prathmi, a student of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, is getting her answers from people who travel by the Metro on the Mysuru Road-Byappanahalli route. The display is part of the ‘Art in Transit’ initiative at the   station.
 
 “I started the survey by asking commuters what Bengaluru meant to them. There were the usual answers such as weather, traffic and so on. I shortlisted a few names and decided I wanted to ask many more people about it,” Prathmi told Mirror.
 
 Among the 36 things you pick from are: Cubbon Park, Kesari bath, Copper Road, Russell Market, Lalbagh, Manyata Tech Park, Lumbini Gardens, Bull Temple, Indiranagar, Vidhana Soudha, Kengeri drain, Set Dosa, Namma Metro, Electronics City, Bisi bele bath, Bellandur Lake, Gulmohar tree, MG Road, Sankey Tank, and Ragi mudde.
 
 A quick look at the board showed that Electronics City, Bisi bele bath and Cubbon Park were the most popular choices. “I am not surprised,” said Prathmi. “It was somewhat similar to what I found after my survey. People spoke about IT, food and parks in Bengaluru; I guess that’s what has come out now.”
 
 The artist said she was pleasantly surprised to see so much interest and enthusiasm. “I thought people would be too busy to bother. But they stopped and took the time out to pin the threads,” she added.
 
 “As a public space designer, I feel art should not just be a showpiece. People need to interact with it and feel the art,” said Prathmi. And sure enough, you do feel it. You can hear the chirping of birds inside this Metro station – as if were not a station but Cubbon Park itself.
 
 The Cubbon Park Metro Station is currently being used by various artists and students under the project ‘Art in Transit’ to showcase their work. Prathmi is one of them.
 
