Chandigarh: The political and community diaspora circles in the UK are unanimous in their demand for transparency with regard to the British government’s role in the 1984 Army operations in Punjab.

 Talking to TOI on Friday, MP from Ealing Southall Virendra Sharma said, “The release yesterday of files about briefings Gen A S Vaidya received from senior members of the British army months before Operation Bluestar confirms what we have long suspected. There is more to the relationship between the British and Indian armies at this time than we are being told.” 
 
 Sharma, who is also a chair of an All Party Parliamentary Group on Indo-UK relations, further said, “Since the Heywood Review I have written to both (former) Prime Minister David Cameron and Prime Minister Theresa May. May passed the issue off to the Foreign Office, demonstrating her continuing indifference to this matter. Victims and those who lost loved ones deserve to know what truly happened.”
 
 “Sikhs in the UK and worldwide are seeking full disclosure about the extent of the British government’s involvement in the attack on Golden Temple. To learn that files are still being withheld does nothing to re-assure the Sikhs and castes a long dark shadow on the integrity of the investigations ordered by then Prime Minister Cameron,” said Dr Onkar Sahota, London assembly member from Ealing and Hillingdon.
 
 When contacted, Gurmel Singh Kandola, general secretary of Sikh Council UK, a body which helps the UK government take policy decisions about the Sikhs in the country, said, “As other files disclosed relate to arms sales to India, one is left to speculate why the then and subsequent British governments looked away while the Sikhs were systematically killed. The recently released Cabinet papers do show that military support and advice had indeed continued, raising compelling questions like: to what extent was the advice followed; were there any active specialist British advisers on the ground; did it directly or indirectly result in fake encounters and extrajudicial killings?” 
 
 “It is also time for the Indian government to start disclosing their papers for the period 1983-1995 so that people know the truth about their motives, strategy and activities towards Sikhs,” Kandola said.
 
 UK-based Dal Khalsa founder member Manmohan Singh Khalsa, said, “It’s not just the British government the Indian government has taken help from. I’m sure they must have taken help from other governments like Russia too, to teach Sikhs a lesson, so that their movement fails. Sikhs were busy with dharam yudh morcha. It is a reminder that their thoughts hadn’t changed much since General Michael O’Dwyer. The governments have their own think tanks who make policies and the governments follow them.”
 
 
