NAGPUR: Roshan and his younger brother  , both sound swimmers, nearly turned heroes had the fate helped them a little more than just saving their lives on Sunday.

 Six of their friends and two   drowned in  , around 25km away from here, where boating or swimming is not allowed. While Roshan pulled out one of the three   to safety, his brother fought till the last moment to save his friend Paresh Kadhote, whose marriage was scheduled in November.
 
 The  , as it is now has come to fore, had offered to volunteer to save the boat. They had asked the panicking friends and boatmen to remain calm as the water was accumulating in the boat.
 
 The brothers wanted their friends to flush out the water gradually from the boat while the boatmen should row the boat as they would pull it from both sides while swimming till they reach to safety. However, the plan failed as their friends started moving frenetically in the boat while one of the boatmen aggravated the situation by declaring that it was sinking fast.
 
 Even after the boat sank before their eyes, the brothers did not want to abandon their friends and the boatmen despite having opportunities to save their lives by swimming to safety. Roshan grabbed boatmen Bawne before pulling him to safety. Amol was trying to drag Kadhote to safety. Kadhote was lost in the water after he slipped away from Amol’s grip. Amol searched for Kadhote in the water before returning.
 
 Roshan, after bringing Bawne on the banks, was once again trying to take a plunge into the water to rescue others when local residents refrained him from doing so. A howling Roshan, a PRO at City Line hospital at Davlameti where he is recuperating with brother Amol and Bawne, tried to call up the doctors before he was rushed to the hospital. 
 
 Sources close to Roshan said he wanted to be in the army like his father. He became a swimmer during his stint in the NCC. Roshan, earlier staying at Dattatreya nagar, had shifted to Dawlameti after getting a job at City Line hospital.
 
 Ankit Bhoskar, who died in the tragedy, is Dodke brothers’s cousin. Amol and his friends, mostly students of management, had come to meet Roshan after which they set out for their outing at Vena dam. Bhoskar, who works at the pharmacy at City Line hospital, had gone to his close friend Pankaj Doifode’s residence at Uday Nagar to bring him along.
 
 Doiphode, a banker, had uploaded the live clip of their boat ride in the dam at 6.50pm on Facebook, which has now gone.
 
 Doifode’s relatives, who waited the entire day at the banks of Vena Dam before his body was fished out, said he had lost his father a few years ago and used to stay with mother Sindhu. “The marriage of Pankaj’s sister has been fixed, and much was depending on him,” he said.
 
 Bhoyar’s relative Dinesh Landekar said the victim’s family had gone to Tulajapur for a religious outing. His wife Sherayu and daughter Pari were at home, he said.
 
 A grieving relative of boatmen Roshan and Akshay Khandare (from Wayadpeth), who are cousins, said the victims along with Bawne were performing worshipping their boats on the banks of the river on the occasion of Guru Purnima. “The revellers compelled the cousins to take them for a joyride,” he said.
 
 Kadhote, Akshay, Bhoyar, Jadhav and Doifode were only sons of their parents. 
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule was among those who visited the place apart from BJP MLAs Sudhakar Kohale and Ashish Deshmukh.
 
 
