PUDUCHERRY:   Kiran Bedi has asked chief minister  , who holds the portfolio of police department, to order a magisterial probe into the violence during the dawn-to-dusk bandh last Saturday and submit a report within 15 days.

 Allies of the ruling  , including DMK and Left parties, staged a bandh on Saturday to register their protest against the ‘undemocratic and autocratic style of functioning’ of Bedi and nomination of the three BJP men as members of legislative assembly by the Centre without consulting the elected government.
 
 The ruling party, which extended support to the bandh, claimed that it was largely peaceful without any major incidents of violence. Bedi, however, said police and media reported that there was violence during the bandh.
 
  She said the magisterial probe must outline not only the violent incidents that were reported but also those that went unreported. It must also outline the preparedness of the government machinery in preventing violence and in posting adequate policemen to prevent damage to public properties. 
 
 The inquiry must also focus on whether police booked criminal cases invoking the relevant sections of the law against the miscreants for damaging public properties and disturbing the peace and tranquillity of the territory and arrested them.
 
 Bedi insisted that the probe must look at whether police gathered sufficient evidence by video-graphing the incidents and must also outline the action initiated by the revenue officials in preventing damage to public properties. Finally, it must recommend preventive measures to be undertaken during bandhs and other agitations. 
 
 Bedi, who left for New Delhi to participate in the farewell function of President Pranab Mukherjee, said she never imagined that being ‘a functional governor and people-sensitive’ would cause distress to some.
 
 “It's so evident that going along with status quo is more acceptable to some. And changing things for the better is disturbing. Which is why many choose a safe route of no change. Play safe. And let people suffer in so many ways,” she said. 
 
 “I have seen this in my life so far. But I have believed in solutions for the benefit of people. Hence, none of this comes as a surprise to me. I am for a duty to be done and will keep doing as per the laws and the rules. The judiciary is the final arbiter. We can always go to it. Let truth prevail,” she said.
 
