HUBBALLI: Rubbing salt on the wounds of its customers who are already battered by demonetization,   has stopped issuing withdrawal slips making customers to shell out Rs 69 per cheque leaf to withdraw their own money. 

 The bank’s decision to stop giving withdrawal slips has left many customers angry and disappointed. It has been happening for the past few months. 
 
 Corporation Bank in Dharwad has put out a circular asking its customers to pay Rs 60 per cheque leaf plus 15% service charge to withdraw money if they don’t have a cheque book. It has created a confusion among the customers as no other nationalised banks are charging their customers.
 
 Sources said, there have been arguments between the bank staff and the customers, who come to withdraw money without a cheque leaf. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Nagabhusan G R, chief manager, Corporation Bank, Dharwad branch, said: “We have been strictly instructed by our head office to stop giving withdrawal slips and collect Rs 69 per cheque leaf. We have been collecting this amount for the past few months.”
 
 Many customers are complaining and even arguing with the bank staff over the issue. 
 
 “We are helpless in this matter as we are only following the instructions given by our head office as per the RBI instruction,” Nagabhusan said, adding that the bank has not been collecting service charge from pensioners and illiterates.
 
 However, he said the bank has been issuing chequebook free of cost, that too, within half an hour after a request was made. Basavaraj, a customer of Corporation Bank, said, “I had an argument with the bank staff over the issue. It is not acceptable.” 
 
 Another customer, who did not want to be named, said, the move of the bank is against the interest of the customers. It should be withdrawn immediately. 
 
 Other banks in the city have been providing withdrawal slips to its customers. “We are giving withdrawal slips and not collecting any service charge from customers to withdraw their money,” said Lalitha Shetty, manager, Canara Bank, Hubbali.
 
