NEW DELHI: The   in India's ( ) office-bearers and committee heads, who draw around $750 per day as daily allowance (DA) on foreign tours, may see a massive cut in their allowance money on official duty abroad.

 Top sources said a discussion to reduce the DA of board officials has already begun and the cut could be quite substantial.
 
 With BCCI bearing the cost of airport transfers, air travel, hotel stay and food and even daily taxi fares, questions are being raised over why $750 should be paid to the board officials when the cricketers who actually pull in the crowds are paid only $125 as DA per day.
 
 Even state association representatives, who travel for special tournaments outside India, are paid $500 per day . The board officials, who will be travelling to   for the Champions Trophy , will be paid £500 while the players will get £125 per day. Of course, the DA of players is over and above the match fees they get ­ Rs 15 lakh per Tests, Rs 6 lakh per ODI and Rs 3 lakh per T20I. Sources said the hike in officials' DA from $500 to $750 came two years ago. The players then were paid less than $100 per day.
 
 Besides, board officials are also entitled for first class air travel while the players get to travel busi ness class. The question being raised within the board now is: How can the board officials, who are in honorary posts, not come under the purview of holding an office of profit after charging BCCI so much money ?
 
 Thus, there is a proposal that the board officials could be paid more DA than members of the Indian team but the amount cannot be almost five times more than what players get.
 
 "Since the office-bearers are senior members of BCCI and are older than the cricketers, they could be allowed to get twice the amount than the players. But not five times more than the national cricketer. This has to be revised," a member, responsible for running the affairs of BCCI, said.
 
 When TOI spoke to a few board members, they were furious at such a proposal.
 
 "Enhancement in DA came through a resolution of the general body and there nothing wrong with it. The players travel 150 days with the team and the officials only do when there is a need. The players are paid match fees and retainership fees too. This comparison is not needed," a BCCI official said while adding the DA money is needed when the BCCI top bossed meet representatives from other boards over lunch or dinner.
 
 It was revealed that when the board officials travel within India, they are paid Rs 30,000 to take care of their entire hotel and food expenses.
 
 The air travel ticket is given based on the actuals. Sources added that there are officials in the board who spend around Rs 2 crore per year ­ which is the top retainership fees of the Grade A cricketers like  ..
 
