CHENNAI: The stage is set for a bitter and hard poll battle in R K Nagar with four political parties and factions in the fray. The   has chosen to field veteran   against the AIADMK's   and the DMK's  , a greenhorn in electoral politics. Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's niece   will be the fourth challenger in the quadrangular fight. 

 The byelection could well go down in history as one that was fought for political survival for three of the key contestants. With the ruling AIADMK, the dissident OPS group and Deepa, who floated an outfit called the MGR Amma Deepa Peravai, staking claim for the Jayalalithaa legacy, the DMK may benefit from the splitting of votes. For Dinakaran and Madhusudhanan, it is a test of strength and fight for survival. For Deepa, it will be an opportunity to get a taste of electoral politics. All three are expected to campaign as the true followers of Jayalalithaa.
 
 The immediate fate of the ruling party and its rebel faction would be known once the   rules on a petition filed before it by Panneerselvam and his supporters challenging V K Sasikala's appointment as general secretary. Retaining AIADMK's two-leaves symbol is crucial for Dinakaran who is shouldering the burden of a perceived anti-Sasikala sentiment in the wake of Jayalalithaa's death.
 
 "Nobody likes Sasikala's family. And Madhusudhanan will split the votes to our benefit," said DMK MLA and party's North Chennai district secretary S Sudarsanan. While there are murmurs of discontent within the DMK over the choice of a candidate hailing from the mudaliyar caste in a vanniyar and dalit-dominated constituency, the party is confident that there is wide acceptability of its leader M K Stalin's choice. For the new working president, a DMK victory will not only be a major morale boost for his party but it would be an endorsement of his leadership as well.
 
 The DMK claimed to have undertaken a survey of the constituency five days ago that showed the party racing ahead on the popularity chart. "The results showed that our party was leading by 15%, the OPS group came next followed by Deepa and then Dinakaran," said a senior DMK leader, seeking anonymity. But a ruling party has rarely lost a byelection, going by the dictum that a voter saw long term benefit in voting for the party in power. "I served the constituency well during Amma's period. Every voter here knows me well," said Madhusudhanan, who has been legislator only for one term in his five-decade-old political career.
 
 The clincher is the possible anti-Sasikala polarisation. It could make or break the AIADMK and its rival rebels.
 
