Mohali: Even after the orders passed by the permanent Lok Adalat on April 2, 2015, Mohali municipal corporation (MMC) has failed to get rid of  , which was declared as noxious weed by the Punjab Government under The East Punjab Agricultural pests, disease and noxious Act, 1949.

 The permanent Lok Adalat (Public Utility Services), had ordered the the municipal corporation (MC) and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to get rid of the congress grass from the city within a period of two months. Moreover, in the notification issued by the former CM and former chairman of GMADA Parkash Singh Badal in 2012-13, it was mandatory for the land owner to chop off weed in a manner to prevent it from spreading. The landowners not abiding by the notice would be liable to pay Rs 250 as fine and simple imprisonment under the aforementioned act.
 
 RTI activist Atul Sharma, a resident of Phase II, had filed a submission before the PUS to issue proper directions to MC and GMADA, along with deputy commissioner and the district health officer of the district mentioning that dangerous congress grass has extended to vacant plots, road sides and some of the parks all over Mohali.
 
 Doctors at PGI, Chandigarh, had in 2010-11 reported that 61% of the patients of contact dermatitis from Chandigarh and its surrounding areas were found to be allergic to congress grass. Atul Sharma said, “MC and GMADA both are running the city since a long time. Congress grass has been spreading allergy among the residents and the fear of turning ill always remains.”
 
 The MMC deputy mayor said, “We are weeding out congress grass on regular basis but this type of grass keep on growing after mild rainfall.”
 
 Sources in civil hospital, Mohali said, “We receive some complaints about infection from congress grass, but most of the people are not aware about the consequences of the grass. They should be made aware about it and one must wash their hands properly as and when they come in contact with congress grass.”
 
 BOX: Causes of allergy
 
 The main cause of allergy is direct or indirect contact with congress grass.
 
 BOX: Symptoms of allergy
 
 Itching and blisters on eyelids, neck, face, elbow, back and knees
 
 Sneezing, coughing and itching
 
 Chest tightening
 
 Fatigue
 
 Fever
 
 Wheezing
 
 Nasal discharge
 
 BOX: Treatment of allergy
 
 Moving the individual to weed-free area can be a temporary cure
 
 Doctors consider this as a very general allergy and treat patients with nasal sprays and corticosteroids instead of curing the allergy itself
 
 Applying mustard oil to the affected area helps
 
 
