NEW DELHI:   had proposed to construct several underground, multilevel   facilities, but none of them have moved from the drawing board. Perhaps it was too optimistic to think that the cash-strapped civic body, which struggles to pay salaries to its employees in time, could have undertaken such projects. But it has not yet given up on the idea.

 Pravesh Wahi, chairman of the corporation’s standing committee, said, "We are not financially able to construct multilevel parking facilities, but we are on our way to outsourcing work through a public-private partnership. We are also exploring options on auctioning vacant land to generate extra funds."
 
 The north civic body planned to create 19 parking facilities, of which only four were actually announced in 2014. However, work order for the proposed amenities at Pitampura, Rani Bagh, Karol Bagh and   is yet to be passed by the corporation. And though commissioner PK Gupta has raked up these projects in every budget speech for three years, not even their blueprints are actually ready.
 
 The underground lots at Rani Bagh and Karol Bagh were to have accommodated over 600 vehicles each. The corporation invited bids for the work, but failed to find any. Sources said these projects had been proposed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. 
 
 After JNNURM was scrapped, many projects had to be dropped too. "We though earlier that the funds would come from the central government," said a corporation official. "The civic bodies can’t take on the projects on their own. Yes, the corporation announced these projects, but we are now struggling with their funding."
 
 Areas under the north civic body have only four functioning multilevel parking lots. Of these, the two in Chandni Chowk are used by car owners, but the ones at Kamla Market and Model Town remain mostly vacant. "We are planning to start an open cafeteria above the underground parking facility at Model Town," disclosed Wahi. "Hopefully, this will attract people and we will be able to utilise the parking lot to its capacity."
 
 
