NEW DELHI: Smarting after being rejected by a 20-year-old woman, a youth accosted her near her home in   in south Delhi and forced half a bottle of toilet acid down her throat. After the girl freed herself and ran for refuge into her house, her assailant surrendered at the local police station. Doctors at AIIMS, where the victim was admitted, said she has suffered internal injuries that require prolonged treatment.

 Around 10.30am on Wednesday, the woman, a shoe factory employee, was returning home from a grocery shop when Ravi Kumar stood in her way and shouted at her. When she protested, the angry youth caught her by her hair and forced the bottle of toilet cleaner into her mouth. Family members alleged that none of the people around made any attempt to deter Kumar from attacking the woman.
 
 “We arrested the youth and registered a case against him for throwing acid at a woman,” said Romil Baaniya, DCP (Southeast). The cops have seized the mobile phones of both Kumar and his victim.
 
 On being questioned, Kumar claimed he had been in a relationship with the woman for two years. She had ended it last Diwali, apparently because her family was opposed to the two of them being together. Of late, the girl had been claiming she was engaged to another man, which enraged Kumar further.
 
 The woman’s relatives admitted that they disapproved of the relationship because Kumar belonged to another community and was unemployed. “He worked intermittently as a tailor and did not have a regular income, so I asked him to stay away from my daughter,” said the woman’s mother.
 
 The mother, whose husband had deserted the family years ago, had been trying to get her daughter married, having got her to stop seeing Kumar, said a neighbour. But the youth resented this and had harassed the woman regularly in recent times. “A few weeks ago, he beat her at the same spot near her house,” alleged a relative. “The matter was resolved after the youth’s mother apologised for his behaviour.”
 
 Members of Kumar’s family related how he had been depressed by the woman’s rejection. For the past 15 days, he had ensconced himself in a garage and refused food. “I tried to convince him to return home, but he said he needed time alone to get over the girl,” said Sunita, his mother. “We never imagined he would do something like this.”
 
