PATNA: Union civil   ministry has sought 156 acre additional land from Bihar government at Bihta airbase for installing Instrument Landing System of Category-II (ILS CAT-II) for safe and smooth flight operations. Civil aviation secretary R N Choubey has written a letter to Bihar government on August 30 in this regard.

 As per in-principle agreement with civil aviation ministry, state government is already committed to handing over 108 acre land to Airports Authority of India (AAI) for construction of a civil enclave at Bihta airbase for commercial flight operations.
 
 The ILS helps pilots at the time of landing in identifying the position of the runway concerned. The ILS at Jayaprakash Narayan airport in Patna is of Category-1, which allows flight operations with minimum visibility of 1200 metres. The ILS CAT- II on the other hand allows flight operations even when visibility is as low as 350m.
 
 “The length of the Bihta airbase runway is 9,000 feet. The IAF and the AAI intend to extend it to 11,000ft, which is suitable for installation of ILS CAT-II. But it also requires additional approach lights to be installed ahead of the runway. Accordingly, the civil aviation ministry has requested for additional 156 acre of land,” Captain Deepak Kumar Singh, director (operation)-cum-chief pilot, state directorate of civil aviation told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Sources, however, said the demand of additional land may not go down well with the state government. “The only option for installing additional approach lights is on the eastern end of the runway. But there is a village on that side along with a graveyard, which will make land acquisition difficult,” a senior government official said and added that around Rs500 crore would be required for the 156 acre land, which would put additional financial burden on the state.
 
 The state cabinet had, on November 15 last year, sanctioned Rs260.74 crore for acquisition of 120 acre land near Bihta airbase, which included 108 acre for a civil enclave and the remaining 12 acre for development of amenities like VIP lounge, a hotel and a hangar.
 
 The AAI has set the target of readying the first block of the proposed civil enclave by mid-2019 utilizing Rs500 crore.
 
 
