BENGALURU: With the cream of the country’s horses battling for the Indian Turf   - biggest racing gala - the contest was primed for an exciting finish.

 All the talk of overwhelming favourite   winning the coveted title failed as Pesi Shroff-trained Temerity galloped to clinch the showpiece event in front of a record 22,500 spectators at the   here on Sunday.
 
 Jockey  , who guided rank-outsider Tororosso to victory in the Bangalore Derby in January, repeated his brilliance, powering the four-year-old filly to a two-quarter length victory. The two-minute, 28.85 seconds ride shattered a 25-year-old record of 2:30.02 set by Classic Style in 1992. The win not only fetched her owners SM Ruia, Amay Ruia and Berjis Minoo Desai a whopping purse of Rs 82.5 lakh but also asserted her position as the best four-year-old in the country.
 
 Rawal, who was over the moon after bagging the biggest prize of his career, said he realised victory was near after completing the 1600-metre mark. “She has been outstanding and responded well when it mattered the most,” said the jockey, who collected a purse of Rs 7.5 lakh. “What helped me was my understanding of the horse as I have ridden all her races. I know her strengths and weaknesses. So it really helped,” said Rawal, who rode Temerity to six wins in nine races.
 
 To begin with, Temerity was not in the contention but stayed well with the pack until the final corner to set the stage for a perfect flourish. Hall Of Famer, ridden by  , dominated the majority of the 2400m trip with Bangalore Derby winner Tororosso and Alaindair also in the fray. After crossing the final corner, with over 800 metres to the finish, Temerity surged ahead of the pack as Hall Of Famer and Tororosso began to falter, unable to keep up the pace.
 
 Hall Of Famer’s ninth-place finish came as shocker as she was a strong contender after having won the Calcutta Derby and Indian Derby in Mumbai in the lead up to the gala event.
 
 “For the right thing to happen we need a good horse and a bit of luck to win such big trophies. After the third-place finish at the Indian Derby in Mumbai last month, she has improved a lot in the lead up to the Invitation Cup,” said Shroff, who also won the Mysore Race Club Sprinters’ Cup to complete a double over the weekend. “Neeraj (Rawal) rode brilliantly to keep the momentum going,” added the trainer, who took home Rs 10 lakh.
 
 Karthik Ganapathy-trained Supreme General ( ) and Suleiman Attaollahi-trained Azzuro (Vijay Mallya’s United racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd) finished second and third respectively.
 
 Meanwhile, Attaollahi’s Serjeant At Arms bagged the Major PK Mehra Memorial Super Mile Cup (Grade 1), the other key race of the day.
 
