LUDHIANA:   said on Thursday that his party would announce candidates for all 23 seats of its quota from the alliance kitty after January 8. Addressing a  , he said the   had passed on the   to all sections of the society.

 Sampla said, “In the last 10 years, Punjab has transformed into a power surplus state. There is a dense network of highways across the state and every sector has witnessed development.”
 
 “During the Congress regime, farmers had to stage sit-ins for fertilizers. Due to efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a silent urea revolution has taken place with India achieving record urea production in 2015. Farmers are now provided neem-coated urea. Black marketing of the crop nutrient has stopped and due to PM Modi’s pro-farmer policies, the tillers do not have to stage dharnas any longer,” he added.
 
 The Union minister of state for social empowerment said that the party would announce its candidates after the completion of the established process. In response to a query, Sampla stated the BJP would play an important role in government formation in Punjab.
 
 Commenting on an opinion poll telecast by a TV channel, Sampla said though the Akali-BJP coalition shown ahead, the final results would be even better. He said that the Congress had been left far behind 10 years ago, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had fallen into pieces, indicating that it was not even in the race.
 
 Launching an offensive against Punjab Congress chief Captain   and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, he said, “Amarinder is still living in the era of maharajas and is busy enjoying his life. He is not concerned about the people. For the last one month he is busy relishing the company of his Pakistani friend. On the other hand, Kejriwal has failed to fulfil all poll promises, like CCTV cameras, free Wi-Fi, houses for poor, and opening school and colleges, he had made to the people of Delhi. AAP tried its best to defame Punjab, but the fact is that drugs are openly used during rave parties in Delhi.”
 
 He alleged Kejriwal was promising to “free Punjab from the menace of drugs” while liquor vends had proliferated in Delhi with almost 15 liquor vends being opened in a single locality.
 
