Jaipur: The state government on Sunday constituted an 11-member high power committee under water resources minister Ram Pratap to examine farmers’ demand for loan waivers up to Rs 50,000. The committee, which would submit its report in one month, is part of the agreement that the government signed with the CPM leaders who organised a major agitation of farmers in Shekhawati region last month.

 Besides water resources minister Ram Pratap as its chairman, the committee includes industries minister Rajpal Singh, agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini, co-operatives minister Ajay Singh and energy minister Pushpendra Singh. BJP state president and legislator   too has been included in the committee.
 
 The government has so far not named any farmer leader in the committee but has authorised the committee head to add members as special invitees.
 
 “Not including a single farmer leader in the committee meant for farmers, portrays anti-farmer character of the state government. We condemn the government for it,” said CPM leader and former legislator Amra Ram, who led the farmer agitation in Sikar last month and signed the agreement with government on September 13.
 
 On a call given by the  , famers in Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Churu, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar districts in north-western Rajasthan as well as in some districts of   region in the east launched an agitation on September 1 with 11 demands, which included complete waiver on farm loans. As the agitation spread, the state government inked a peace deal with farmer leaders.
 
 “Despite signing the agreement with us, the government is indulging in all kinds of tactics to harm farmers’ interests. The committee, which was to submit its report in one month, has already been delayed by 17 days,” Amra Ram told TOI.
 
 As per the agreement, the high-power committee would study the procedures adopted in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala and other states to waive farm loans and if these could be adopted in Rajasthan too. The committee would further report on implications of farm loan waivers, if these are allowed, on the state economy.
 
 Other members of the high power committee includes Discom chairman  , additional chief secretary (finance) D B Gupta, principal secretary (agriculture) Neel Kamal Darbari, principal secretary (co-operatives) Abhay Kumar and principal secretary (planning) Akhil Arora, who would be the committee’s member secretary.
 
 Even as the state government has authorized the committee to examine farm loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 only, the state Congress has announced a four-day protest march in chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s political turf to demand complete loan waiver for farmers. PCC chief Sachin Pilot would undertake a nearly 100-km walk from Baran to Jhalawar from October 3 to October 6 in support of the farmers’ demands.
 
 
