BENGALURU: Cars lined up one behind another on   and necks craned out of the windows as the rehearsals for the   began on Sunday, with tens of vehicles stopping to view the  .

 Jets soared and aerobatics teams performed stunts as people tried capturing them on their mobile phones and other cameras - there were people watching from balconies too.
 
 Fifty five year old R Jayashri's Sunday routine was punctuated by her quick visits to the balcony of her Kodigehalli flat. “Every time I heard something, I ran to catch a glimpse. I'm visiting my daughter and seeing these big planes and colourful helicopters for the first time, and the stunts they perform are just wonderful,“ she told TOI.
 
 With two days left for the aero show, the skies around the Yelahanka air base was enveloped by planes zipping past each other. The IAF helicopter display team Sarang was on song, while women members of Scandinavian SkyKat team standing on the aircraft was another attraction.
 
 Residents in several areas along Ballari Road caught a glimpse of what the show would be like - with children, parents and enthusiasts all gathered on their terraces.
 
 “North Bengaluru is not abuzz, its roaring. Sometimes, we can't even hear each other in the house. My child is hav ing the best time out in the balcony for the entire day. We don't even need to buy tickets and see the performances from the venue, we are already from the venue, we are already at a vantage point,“ says Yelahanka resident Shefali K.
 
 The NH 7 had more than two-km long traffic towards KIA throughout the day as vehicles on either sides of the road stopped to catch a glimpse of the roaring fighter jets.
 
 Nilotple Samanta, who was driving back from the airport stopped on the sides of the flyover on the highway. “I have never been to Aero India. I was stunned when I saw them practicing today,“ he laughs.
 
 The traffic pile, however, kept the traffic cops busy. The security has been tightened around the venue and signboards have been out in place to make those heading to the airport aware of the alternative route onwards through the Hennur--Bagalur road.
 
