MUMBAI: Revised entry fees for   and Zoo in   have led to its monthly revenue shooting up by almost 300% despite the number of visitors having dropped.

 The city's only heritage botanical gardens and zoo, which till July used to charge visitors Rs 5 as entry fee (children were charged Rs 2), hiked the fee from August to Rs 50 per person even as a family of four is charged Rs 100. This led to the monthly revenue shooting up.
 
 A comparison in monthly revenue for July and August shows it went up by 288% even as visitors dropped by almost 49%. Zoo authorities said the revenue earned for July from entry fees was Rs 8,79,424 while there were 1,14,808 visitors. In August, since the entry fee was increased, the revenue earned was Rs 34,16,210 while there were 76,944 visitors. In 2016-17, revenue was approximately Rs 70 lakh, which means that almost the bi-annual earnings of the zoo have come in August alone this year, if one goes by the old rates.
 
 The zoo authorities are happy as they say the increased entry fees is drawing only genuine visitors, and not some one who would earlier come to pass time as the entry fee was very low.
 
 “Family crowds have increased, which was one of our aims when we proposed the fee hike. Therefore, we kept the entry fee of a family of four restricted to Rs 100. With   vacations next month, we are expecting number of visitors to increase,“ said  , director of Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo.
 
 On July 26 last year, three male and five female Humboldt penguins were brought to the zoo from Coex Aquarium, Seoul, in  , and kept in a quarantine centre.The fee hike was proposed after   kept the penguins for public viewing in March.
 
 The fee hike was criticised by open space activists who said it would restrict the entry of many who would not be able to afford Rs 50.
 
 The zoo authorities pointed out how earlier visitors would take the low entry fees for granted and there have been instances of people being caught roaming in the gardens and zoo ticketless. With the new entry charges, the authorities have become very strict on the purchase of tickets.
 
