Chennai: The nearly $18 billion Group Mahindra is finalising its ambitious automotive foray into the US market starting from 2019 when an offroad product entirely developed by the company’s Detroit R&D centre, will be launched in that market. Korean group company Ssangyong too is planning to debut its products in the US in the next 18 months. According to company sources, M&M is readying for full-fledged US push given that its earlier legal cases have now all been sorted out.

 Mahindra’s US foray is being spear-headed by Mahindra North American Technical Centre (MNATC), the company’s R&D centre in Detroit, which is currently working on two separate products, one for the Indian market and another entirely for the US market. “MNATC is developing an off-roader product for the US market which is expected to be launched sometime in 2019,” said a senior company source. “It has also developed another product which will come to the Indian market by the middle of financial year 2017-18,” he added.
 
 Industry sources say the Mahindra-badged vehicle intended for the American market may well be called Thar and has been entirely developed by MNATC. The Detroit tech centre assumes importance given that Group Mahindra is one of 6 companies shortlisted by the United States Postal Service (USPS) for the Next Generation Delivery Vehicle (NGDV) prototype, a nearly $5 billion order for the company that finally bags it.
 
 Apart from its own foray into the US, Mahindra group company Ssangyong too is preparing for an American outing. “Ssangyong is looking to enter the US in the short-to-medium term and it is currently developing products and strategy accordingly,” said the senior company source. Industry sources say this could happen as soon as 2018.
 
 Mahindra’s previous attempt to debut in the US with a rugged fuel-efficient pick-up in the late 2000 ran into legal problems with some of its dealers suing it in 2010. With those cases cleared up, the company is now revisiting its US strategy but this time the product is designed and developed in America, for the American market.
 
 
