SHIMLA: Shimla, called the ‘Queen of Hills’, is witnessing arrests of two to three persons everyday for involvement in hashish (charas) and other drug peddling cases. Observing immense increase in such cases in last few months, now district police have become active to eradicate drug trade by launching a special campaign called ‘Shimla police war against drugs’.

 In last 25 days of February alone, around 40 people have been apprehended for keeping drugs including 2kg hashish, 3kg brown sugar, 2008 tablets and capsules of Nitrosun, Proxy and N10, 4g heroin, 150g opium and some for keeping cannabis and NDPS material too. Most of the apprehended people are between 18-40 age group, informed Shimla police.
 
 On Saturday, Shimla police nabbed 30-year-old Jindu Ram, resident of  , with 818g hashish at Duttnagar. Same day, 26-year-old Sanjeev Kumar, resident of Arki, was apprehended with 72g hashish near   in Shimla. On Friday, Chirgaon resident Roshan Lal was arrested with 22g hashish and Anil kumar was apprehended for keeping 16g hashish. On Thursday, 18-year-old Raman Bragta, resident of Tiuni area of Dehradun, was apprehended for possession of 14g hashish during routine checking at Fediz Pul and during patrolling 40-year-old Kishori Lal from Sunni area of Shimla was arrested with 15g charas.
 
 On Wednesday during night patrolling around 4am at Shimla Local Bus Stand, police recovered 159g hashish from bag of Balbir Singh Bhandari (40), resident of Reckong Peo. In the second case, police apprehended Chirgaon resident Shiv Anand, who was carrying 10g hashish. In the third case, police recovered 16g hashish from a tea stall at Gumma area whose owner Labh Singh of Mandi was arrested. In the fourth case, Kulwinder Singh was apprehended with 21g hashish from Jakhoo area. In the fifth case,   resident Ashish Gupta was arrested with 18g hashish from Nav Bahar in Shimla.
 
 Shimla superintendent of police D W Negi told TOI that Shimla police have formed special teams to catch drug peddlers and are doing commendable work under the campaign. Now, police departments of other districts too have started following Shimla police, he added. 
 
