NOIDA: The   remained firm on not bowing to the demands of the ‘job contractual’ category of sanitation workers even as the workers’ strike for permanent jobs and uniform wages entered its eighth day on Wednesday. Residents of sectors 12, 19, 20, 23, 44 and 52 complained of garbage piling up with no remedial measures by the Authority.

 In Sector 99, the garbage collection from HIG and MIG four-storey apartments of Noida Authority has not taken place for the past seven days. Neither the roads inside the sector are cleaned, nor is door-to-door garbage picked up in the sector.  , general secretary, Apartment Owners Association Sector 99, “We have spoken to everybody including the contractor concerned and health inspector Dinesh Sharma and project engineer O P Rai earlier.” 
 
 According to Puneet Shukla RWA vice-president,   in Sector 12, the area near Z block Amrapali market, which also has a sales tax office, is reeking of garbage for the past four to five days. “Though we have hired private vendors to pick up the garbage, they too are not working,” Shukla said.
 
 Residents of   (KKS) and Omax Royal Residency, Sector 44, too are facing extremely unhygienic conditions because of blockage of the nullah (drain) and uncollected garbage lying there for about a week. 
 
 When contacted, Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO of Noida Authority, told TOI that it is the third category of sanitary employees who are on strike since May 17. He said the three categories of sanitation staff were: (a) Permanent — which has 119 Authority staff members, drawing government salary as per government norms; (b) Contractual Labour — 1,642 in number, accounting for 2.5% of the total strength and are part of labour contract let out by the Authority; and (c) Job contractual employees — who are 2,600 in number and are hired/outsourced by way of e-tendering for specific jobs by Noida Authority and hence are not Authority staff.
 
 “While the first two categories of permanent and labour contract employees are not on strike and carrying out their duties, they are unable to cover the large residential and industrial sectors of Noida. We are ensuring that they continue their alternate-day rounds,” Srivastava said, adding that, in the meantime, talks were held with representatives of job contractual employees on Monday where the latter presented a seven-point charter to the Authority as conditions to call off their strike.
 
 “Their primary demand was about wage increase as well as permanent job with the Authority. To this we have intimated them that since we are already paying them an amount of Rs 10,200 (including ESI and PF) as compared to Rs 7,200 to 7,800 in Delhi or Ghaziabad municipal corporation employees, their demand cannot be met. They are getting nearly Rs 3,000 more from other NCR municipal employees,” Srivastava said.
 
 He said that secondly, as for permanent job the Authority was not authorised to take action as they are outsourced workers hired by way of e-tendering. At present, these job contractual workers have sought time for deliberation among themselves,” Srivastava said.
 
 
