GURUGRAM: This week, the ‘HCL Concerts’ series returns to the NCR, with performances scheduled for Gurgaon (at Shiv Nadar School), Delhi and Noida.

 Outside of the storied festivals, it is, these days, rare for Hindustani Classical to have all the limelight to itself. But the passing, late on Monday, of Kishori Amonkar, presents an opportunity to celebrate the wonderful career of one of India’s finest classical vocalists, and also to appreciate and embrace the diverse cultural treasures that India is so fortunate to be blessed with.
 
 Following a heartening response to the first series last autumn, Gurgaonites can expect to see some exceptional musicians this coming weekend. Brothers Amaan and Ayan Ali will be representing the hoary Senia Bangash tradition. With a diligent devotion to their music, and a deep reading of the history of that music, the duo has crafted a reputation that embellishes the refined commitment to the sarod which their father, Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, has exhibited for many a decade.
 
 Amaan and Ayan will be featuring on the final evening, and will be followed by  , a vocalist who has dipped her feet in both the classical and folk traditions, who is as effortless when singing a raag as she is when performing the thumri. She will be accompanied by   on the tabla and Sudhir Nayak on the harmonium.
 
 On the opening day, family tradition will be to the fore when flautist Rakesh Chaurasia – nephew of the master   – joins Kaushiki Chakraborty (vocals), Taufiq Qureshi (percussion), Purbayan Chatterjee (sitar) and Satyajit Talwalkar (tabla).
 
 And on the middle night of the three-day festival, there’s a treat in store, a ‘jugalbandi’ of styles, if you like.  , on the sitar and ‘zitar’ – a cross between a sitar and guitar (which can also, not inaccurately, be described as the sitar going electric) – will be teaming up with the multi-talented  , on drums, the brilliant Vijay Ghate, on the tabla, and Agnelo Fernandes on keys.
 
 So, a chance to hear the best vocal and instrumental  , at a venue (a school auditorium) that connects the past to the future. It promises to be an enriching three days.
 
 But, will there be another Kishori Amonkar? Well, the guru-shishya tradition has survived into the 21st century, if maybe not as surefooted as it once was. 
 
 Yet as long as there is the music, young aficionados will continue to be inspired by Amonkar, who, with a combination of dedication and élan, made the complex sound effortless, and beautiful.
 
