MUMBAI:   and   are no longer trustees of the Tata Trusts that together hold a 66% stake in Tata Sons, the group’s holding company. As independent directors at Tata-run companies, both had at times supported   in his conflict with Tata Sons following his ouster as its chairman. Dadiseth used to be on the board of Tata-run Indian Hotels Co Ltd.
 
  Munjee told ET his term as a trustee had expired in January and that he remains an independent director at Tata Motors and Tata Chemicals.
  
  “I am very much a part of the board of Tata companies and absolutely support the Tatas,” he said. “In the past we supported Cyrus Mistry as far as the companies were concerned. But for the future we voted against Cyrus since he did not enjoy the confidence of the promoters.
  
  We have to take care of minority shareholders too and without the backing of the Tatas what is the future of the companies?” His initial backing for Mistry had been at Tata Chemicals.
  
  A   spokesperson confirmed that Dadiseth and Munjee were no longer trustees. “We strongly denounce the suggestion ‘has not been given another term’. People who are using such words and making such suggestions are not only incorrect but also are insulting to Tata Trusts and trustees, present and former, of the trusts,” a Tata spokesperson said.
  
  Tata Sons also refuted any speculation about retaliation. “It is ridiculous to say the group is settling scores. The Tata group focuses and looks objectively after the interest of all stakeholders in the community,” an official said. Dadiseth could not be reached for comment.
  
 Terms of trustees at Tata Trusts vary with some having lifetime tenure and others serving three-year terms that can be renewed, said people with knowledge of this. Tenures depend on the deed of settlement of a trust, said Chandubhai Mehta, managing partner of law firm Dhruve Liladhar & Co.
  
  “Usually, trustees have a permanent lifetime tenure unless they are disqualified for any misconduct or there is a conflict of interest under the Trust Act,” he said. “Generally, it is more beneficial for trusts to have a lifetime tenure since it means they enjoy the confidence of the main trustee or central figure of the trust.” No government or court can interfere in the working of trusts, which operate under their own laws.
  
  Recently, Shapoor Mistry, elder brother of Cyrus Mistry, and Dadiseth had stepped down from the board of IHCL.
  
  Cyrus Mistry, who was ousted as Tata Sons chairman in October last year, had earlier accused the Tata Trusts of interfering in the functioning of Tata group companies besides citing complex relationships between the Tata Trusts and Tata Sons. All of this was denied by the Tata Trusts.
  
  
 
  The Tata Trusts, chaired by  , are a group of 14 public trusts managed by about 20 trustees. The trusts disburse more than `750 crore annually for various causes including healthcare, livelihood, sanitation and education.
  
  The Tata Trusts are governed by the Maharashtra Public Trust Act and Income Tax Act. They enjoy a unique position in India because they are allowed to hold shares in a commercial entity despite being exempt from income tax, exempt because of their philanthropy.
  
  A Tata group spokesperson in an earlier mail to EThad said that the trusts are governed by individual wills of Jamsetji Tata, his two sons, Sir Dorabji Tata and Sir Ratan Tata, and other founders.
  
  The trusts were instrumental in the sacking of Mistry as they have the right to appoint directors to the board of Tata Sons. After Tata Trusts, the Mistry family's Shapoorji Pallonji group is the next biggest shareholder in Tata Sons with an 18.5% stake.
