Although   did not vacate even a single seat for its ally Congress over 191 constituencies in 36 districts of the state, sitting Congress MLA Mavia Ali found to his considerable surprise that his name was on the SP’s list from Deoband constituency in  . The MLA is now trying to find out how the mix-up happened.
 
  Talking with TOI, Ali said, “Akhilesh Yadav is the man of the hour and everyone should support him seeing the developmental work done during his five-year tenure. Besides, he is the only young and energetic face of the state that can defeat communal forces. If I have to sacrifice my seat for Akhilesh ‘bhaiya’, I am always ready for that. Now, he has shown confidence in me and that matters a lot to me.”
  
  Ali had snatched the seat from SP during the bypoll in 2016 after the seat fell vacant due to the death of SP MLA Rajendra Rana. Ali has always introduced himself as Imran Masood’s right hand. Masood, a Congress leader, had grabbed headlines during the 2014 general elections after he passed a derogatory comment against  .
  
  According to sources, Ali was in touch with senior SP leaders of Akhilesh’s group since the rift between   and the CM. It seems his efforts paid off and he got a ticket from the Deoband seat, they added.
  
  Last month, when, Mulayam had announced his list of candidates, the ticket had again been given to Rana’s widow Beena Rana. She could not find a place in Akhilesh’s list.
  
  Meanwhile,a report from Pilibhit said the announcement of SP’s list has created uncertainty among Congress workers and leaders there. In Pilibhit’s Bisalpur constituency, SP has given the ticket to Ratnesh Gangwar. This has left former MLA Anis Ahmad Khan alias Phool Babu, a three-time winner of assembly elections from this seat, wondering where he stands. He had expected SP to leave Bisalpur seat vacant for Congress in view of his wins from the seat since 1996.
  
  Khan had won his three elections on a BSP ticket in 1996, 2002 and 2007. He had lost the seat to BJP’s Ram Saran Verma in the 2012 elections. He subsequently joined Congress along with his supporters last year in September in a rally by Rahul Gandhi held in Bisalpur.
  
  On being asked about announcement of SP candidates on all the four assembly seats of Pilibhit district, Khan said he was surprised but expressed hopes that SP and Congress reach an agreement over seat-sharing, and then Bisalpur seat would be earmarked for him. “If, due to any unavoidable situation, the two parties fail to reach a consensus, I will contest election on the symbol of Congress,” he said.
