Madurai: A stringent direction from the Madurai bench of the Madras   on Tuesday forced the home department to pass a government order constituting advisory boards in prisons including the special prison for women. The GO also helped home principal secretary Niranjan Mardi to avoid appearing before the court on August 3. 

 On Tuesday 3 pm, the court ordered the state home department principal secretary to appear before it on August 3 for violating its July 11 order directing him to pass appropriate orders on the recommendations of ADGP (prisons) for appointment of non-official members in each of the central prison and special prison by August 1. He was also directed to produce a copy of the order before the court, failing which he should appear before it on August 3. 
 
 When the case came up for hearing before the division bench of justices K K Sasidharan and G R Swaminathan, the special government pleader by filing the counter of the deputy   submitted that the government was seized of the matter and appropriate orders would be passed in due course. 
 
 The court said “Since it was a time-bound order and the matter has been pending before the government right from the year 2014, the government was expected to pass orders before the stipulated period. We already indicated that in the event of failure to pass orders, the principal secretary should appear before us. Now, the respondents had not passed orders pursuant to the direction and kept the matter pending. The home secretary deliberately violated the court order. Let the principal secretary appear before us along with records on August 3.” 
 
 Immediately after the court order went viral, the home department passed the order constituting the advisory boards in respect of central prisons in Puzhal (Chennai), Vellore, Cuddalore, Trichy, Madurai, Palayamkottai, Salem and Coimbatore and special prison for women in Puzhal, Vellor, Trichy, Madurai and Coimbatore. 
 
 This was also taken to the notice of the court. Following it, the court said, “Subsequent to the court order, at 5 pm the special government pleader produced the copy of the order passed by the home department. Since the home secretary has constituted the committee pursuant to our order, we recall the direction regarding the appearance of the principal secretary.”
 
 People’s Watch executive director Henri Tiphagne had filed a PIL petition last year seeking a direction to the home secretary to appoint trained and skilled non-official members to prisons/jails as per Rule 338 of the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983. They had to visit each of the central jails, the district jails and sub-jails to address the grievance of prisoners and help the prison administration in the development of correctional administration in the prisons. 
 
 
