PUNE: The stage is set for a fierce battle between the   (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party ( ) in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations, two financially strong civic bodies in the state after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.

 The state election commission on Wednesday announced elections to the two municipal corporations on February 21.
 
 The NCP has been at the helm in both the PMC and the PCMC for a decade and its leader, Ajit Pawar, draws power from his dominance over both corporations. However, the BJP has now emerged as a strong contender for power in both cities after its performance in the 2014 elections. The party had won all eight seats in Pune in the assembly polls and its Lok Sabha candidate, Anil Shirole, overran the opposition to win the Pune seat with a record margin of 3,15,769 votes.
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, where the NCP has enjoyed a total majority all these years, the party is saddled with the problem of its leaders switching camps. MLAs Laxman Jagtap and Mahesh Landge, MP Shrirang Barne and former NCP mayor Azam Pansare, all close Pawar aides once, have now joined the BJP.
 
 Buoyed with its past performance and the steady inflow of local satraps, the BJP is preparing to topple the political applecart in both cities. Leading the party's pre-election campaign, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis recently said, “Vote us to power and we will change the face of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The state and the Centre will ensure that these become top cities in India.“
 
 The BJP is intensifying its efforts to attract present and former corporators from the NCP and other parties. And leaders from these parties, gauging which way the wind is blowing, are obliging. Pawar, however, has pinned his faith in the voters. “The BJP is luring leaders and voters in all possible ways. They are implying that they can deliver on the development front because they are in power at the Centre and in the state. However, people have experienced their rule and have suffered enough.“
 
 `A litmus test for Pawar' “Voters have stood by us in the past and they will do so in these polls too,“ Pawar said.
 
 His clout in the Pune zilla parishad, which will also go to the polls on February 21, will also be challenged.
 
 The other political parties, including the Congress,   and MNS, will look for their share in the poll pie.While the Congress is waiting for the NCP's move on a prepoll alliance, the Sena hopes to ride along with the BJP. A decision on these alliances is likely this week even as parties have started interviewing aspirants. The candidates' list will trickle in over the next week.
 
 “These polls are important as they will be controlled and contested by local politicians who switched loyalties in Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune.It is not surprising that the BJP's star is in the ascendancy. Earlier, NCP leader   was at the centre of Pune's politics and others worked for him. Today , political agents are not loyal to any one leader like Ajit Pawar.They follow the power centre,“ political analyst Suhas Palshikar said.
 
 The civic and zilla parishad polls in Pune will be a litmus test for Ajit Pawar as his political future will largely depend on how he performs now, Palshikar added.
 
