UDAIPUR: At 79, Nicholas Grey seems too young to retire and his 75-year-old wife   has umpteen dreams gleaming in her eyes.

 Rajasthan has become almost a second home to them as they have been coming here regularly for three decades in their mission to help the unprivileged section get access to water, a commodity more precious than gold in the sunbaked land.
 
 During their visits, the Grey couple have walked miles across the tough terrains of the hilly desert state, enduring the harsh winters, scorching summers alike. But their determination stood unshackled for fulfilling their commitment for the water cause. The `not so old' couple who were in Udaipur, shared with TOI, their joys and concerns of their 30 years search of `Wells for India'.
 
 It was way back in 1973 when Nicholas happened to meet one   Purohit in Rome, a follower of Gandhi, who was on a peace march there. Ramsahai struck friendship with Grey couple as well as many European volunteers and leaders, including Pope Paul VI. In 1974, Nicholas came to visit Ramsahai at his home in a remote village at Idankabas in Dudu district. It was not until the drought of 1987 that they joined hand for the water cause.
 
 “When wells dried up and 60 million animals died throughout India, it was a tragic situation that needed immediate response. Ramsahai formed an   and we founded   (WI) to be a support and fund-raising organization,“ Nicholas told TOI.
 
 “These 30 years have taught us a lot. We realized the importance of water and took back to UK the lesson we even taught to our countrymenWater is precious and we cannot afford to waste it because millions of people spend half of their lives just walking in search of water,“ Mary said. Initially , WI focused on digging and deepening of wells as a solution to meet the water problem, gradually they realized, water harvesting to be a long-term more sustainable solution.
 
 “We worked with the vil lage development communities, volunteers in capturing monsoon rain waters for storing it throughout the year to make ends meet. Activities like de-silting of village community ponds, making of underground water tanks, raising small structures of rooftop water harvesting etc were successfully completed during these years,“ Nicholas said. The Grey couple have spent more than 40 million pounds for the noble cause. The fund raising efforts had not been easy for them back in UK.
 
 “In recent years, raising fund for water cause in India has become a little difficult for us. With slogans like `India Shining' and similar phrases putting India as a booming economy, people prefer to do nate to institutions working in African nations but we still have a large number of individual supporters whose contribution, though may be little, but have helped us in the long run,“ the couple sounded grateful.
 
 Talking about the transformation in three decades, the couple says, “Rajasthan has undergone a radical change in these years. Rural women are no more silent listeners and are keen to contribute not only for the well being of their families but the community as a whole,“ Mary said.
 
 Though water remains the prime focus of WI programmes, the couple wish to take up new tasks on girls education. “There is a dearth of secondary level schools in remote areas. In Jodhpur, WI has founded a girls hostel so that young girls may have access to higher education, we may have more of such hostels in the coming days,“ Mary said.
 
 In their message to the younger generation, the couple says, “Please, don't forget the villages while making smart cities. The Soul of India is in the villages and the real peace resides here.“
 
