NAGPUR: The much-awaited polls of   (HCBA), which earlier courted controversy owing to inordinate delay of five months, has landed in another soup. This time the polls are deferred by a week due to default in   by majority of lawyers.

 The polls would now be conducted on February 10. Even the deadline for clearing membership arrears is extended by ten days till January 17. 
 
 As per lawyers, out of over 3,800 total members, as many as 2,161 failed to pay their annual membership fees, which accounts over 55%. Only 1,229 could actually become eligible for voting by the last date of clearing arrears which was January 7. Another 500 couldn’t become eligible as they are yet to complete one year of membership.
 
 It was only after TOI’s report on November 2 that HCBA’s   announced the poll schedule. Election was supposed to be conducted on February 3. The newspaper reported about inordinate delay of over five months in conducting the elections, held in every three years. Last elections were held on May 2, 2013, and the executive committee under President Arun Patil, took over on June 27, 2013, in the ceremony graced by then chief justice Mohit Shah.
 
 The latest failure from the lawyers to pay their annual arrears was meagre Rs 150/month and Rs 100/month, has once again raised a serious question mark. Those completing over 15 years as HCBA member are charged Rs 150 while others need to pay Rs 100.
 
 The members stated that the amount was utilized to organize various events and programmes for lawyers and also for providing them facilities. Despite repeated requests from the HCBA office-bearers to pay their arrears, a majority of them failed to respond, lawyers said. 
 
 Denying all allegations, HCBA secretary Shraddhanand Bhutada said non-payment of arrears was not the sole reason to defer the polls, but it was due to requests from majority of them. “Ever since the poll-schedule was announced, we were getting numerous representations from the lawyers to defer it, as many of them are either going out at that time or busy with some other functions. It was then decided to extend the dates. The decision was taken during our Executive Committee meeting today,” he said.
 
 He added that usually members pay fees annually or in six-months and very few opt for monthly mode. “They must have forgotten in their busy schedule, but I am sure that they would pay it as early as possible. Actual picture would be cleared after January 17,” he said.
 
 The polls would be conducted for one post of president, secretary, joint secretary, library in charge, and treasurer along with two posts of vice presidents and nine members.
 
 
