COIMBATORE: A little more than three years ago, residents wishing to buy superbikes had to buy them from Chennai, Bengaluru or Kochi. There were hardly 10 such bikes plying city roads. From a tier-II city without a   showroom, Coimbatore has embraced the superbike culture. A growing market for these bikes and the availability of a racing track seem to have made all the difference.

 On Sunday morning, 30 bikers from across the country gathered at  , a race track at Chettipalayam, to attend a workshop on bike racing. Racing classes for various levels are held at least six times a year on the track, which attracts students from various cities. 
 
 “We get around 30 to 40 participants in each workshop,” says  , marketing head of Chennai-based  . “In workshops conducted in the city, at least 70% of the participants are from Coimbatore with superbikes,” says Kuriyan. A two-day workshop on riding and racings costs anywhere between Rs15,000 and Rs20,000.
 
 Today, the city is home to at least 200 superbikes across brands. Eleven months ago, one brand launched a showroom in the city. “We decided to open a showroom in Coimbatore because we recognised the growing popularity of these bikes, especially our brand,” said Srekanth Kalingarayar, business head of an American superbike brand in the city. The brand has already sold around 150 bikes since they opened a showroom in the city, more than 60% of the business coming in from within the district.
 
 Both foreign and Indian brands are making in-roads into the city. “In terms of retail volume, Coimbatore closely matches Chennai. Almost 45% of my retail volumes come from the textile city and value component wise, it is better than Chennai,” says business head of another brand,  . “This is because Coimbatorians buy more expensive adventure and super sport bikes,” he added. “While we are not planning a showroom immediately, it is definitely in the pipeline,” he said. 
 
 The growing craze for superbikes has prompted an event management company to host a ‘Biker’s party’ in the city on January 27. “We are hosting a bikers’ party to bring all bikers under one roof and spread awareness on riding safely,” says an event manager and illusionist, S A C Vasanth.
 
 Attractive financing options and changing mindset of people have led to the increase in number of superbikes on city roads. “Earlier, superbikes, which cost a minimum of Rs7.5lakh to Rs10lakh each, were considered assessable only to the rich, who had to import the bike after paying 200% import duty,” says B Shiva, a businessman and biker. Many people would rather buy a bike for around Rs1.7lakh and a car which costs less,” he says. “Today, with private banks offering loans and attractive EMI options, passionate bike riders across sections of society are buying bikes which cost more than Rs10lakh on five to 10 year EMIs,” he added. 
 
