NEW DELHI: Barapullah phase III, connecting   with INA, is expected to get over only by mid-2018 as the government hasn’t been able to sort out a land acquisition problem. 

 “We need to acquire about eight acres in the middle of the riverbed, which comes under the  . We have been in negotiation with the residents who are asking for an absolutely impractical amount of money to transfer the land. Against Rs 27 lakh per acre that the government is offering, they are asking for Rs 9 crore per acre. They have had several meetings with the PWD secretary and senior officials but now the chief secretary is personally taking up the matter. Without this land, PWD cannot complete its foundation laying work,” said a senior official.
 
 Then there are BSES and Delhi Transco lines passing over the project area. “We have deposited money with BSES for shifting of the lines but there has been no movement there. Additionally, we have been asking Transco to shift its high tension wires for more than a year but that matter is also pending,” the official added. 
 
 As a result of the delay, the Rs 1,260.63-crore project could take an additional six to eight months for completion. 
 
 Once it is completed, the project will be the 16th bridge over the Yamuna in Delhi. The 3.4km stretch would connect Mayur Vihar Phase-I with Sarai Kale Khan. Phase-I of the project was built in 2010 and connects Sarai Kale Khan with Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium.
 
 “Phase-III will provide an essential link between east and south Delhi. The existing links like Ring Road at Ashram and Bhairon Marg are already extremely congested. Once the entire project is ready, which includes phase-II, it will take about 10-12 minutes to travel from Mayur Vihar to South Extension,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 Each carriageway would have four lanes and a dedicated lane for pedestrians and cyclists. The 550m bridge to be built on stilts would be an ‘extradosed’ bridge with only six piers in the river portion with spans as large as 128m. 
 
 The bridge was planned with a promenade for pedestrians. The decks, proposed at each pier location, would have street furniture and greenery. Officials said along with the link, a flyover parallel to the existing single carriageway flyover would be built with loops and slip roads for signal-free movement from Barapulla Road to Akshardham and Noida. Two clover leaves would also be constructed to provide signal-free entry and exit from Mayur Vihar.
 
