KOLKATA: While   in Delhi was in the midst of controversy over serving beef in November 2015, now tension prevails at   hostel over serving of vegetarian food. Two rival groups had fought over serving   and now to quell the two groups police had been posted at the hostel. Thus there is tension prevailing at Dr BC Roy hostel and Dr SRB hostel.

 Some medicos claimed that they had been running the vegetarian canteen for themselves and some students had been demanding that they also be served vegetarian food in the canteen. Praveen Yadav, a final year MBBS student said they were running the canteen as they were vegetarians, hailing from north India. "Some students wanted food from our canteen and as we did not have that capacity, they were asked to join from April, but soon some Trinamool Chattra Parishad students attacked us."
 
 Yadav said, "Our rooms in the hostel were vandalized and some students were physically assaulted. The attacked students lodged a police complaint saying that it is becoming difficult to survive in the hostel. They are assaulting us and even anti-ragging complaint is also there against them. Some house staff doctors who are not allowed in hostel are assaulting students who joined the medical college from   seats through CBSE."
 
 "On 8th March around 10 pm two house-staff doctors used abusive words initially and then attacked first year students and later started beating us. When the hostel authorities were informed they assured us safety. All students of All India quota were sleeping in a single room due to threat by those two house staff doctors. Around 3.10am they along with their accomplices entered the room by breaking the gate and attacked us with stones, broken glass pieces, logs and chair." Yadav said, adding that when they went to the police station these two doctors broke the lock of all 10 rooms allotted to all India Quota students and broke laptops, mobiles and have stolen purses and watches."
 
 Principal of BS medical college   said that two groups had been fighting over serving of vegetarian food. "Some students were not allowed in the canteen where vegetarian food was served, which led to the clash. There are complaints that these students who came from outside the state through all India quota had attacked the GS of the medical college. I am trying to solve the problem. Right now there is police posting, but it cannot continue for long. But none of the parties involved in the clash lodged complaint with me, they went to the police," Dr Pradhan said.
 
 Dr Indranil Khan, convenor of ABVP medical cell said that the administration should see that people coming to Bengal for studies should not be attacked by local criminals and demanded safety of the students. "This is going to create a bad reputation for Bengal," Dr Khan said.
 
