VISAKHAPATNAM: This week at  , it was not the young crowd that enthralled the onlookers with their on-stage performance. Neither was it the ever-popular Zumba session, nor any particular music brand. Well, they all added to the vibrancy and zing to Sunday morning on  . But it was some 15 odd stray dogs and puppies that stole the show with their on-stage appearance.

 As Happy Streets keeps adding new events every week, this time it was a dog show, where owners came with more than a dozen dogs and took them to the stage set up near YMCA. The notable feature of dogs is that they are a variety of abandoned and stray canines –Jimmy, Sony, Sweety and Soxy and so on. “Through today’s dog show, we wanted to send a message to everyone that not just exotic dogs, but stray dogs too can be adopted and kept as pets,” said Bhanu Prakash, one of the members from Visakha Society for Care and Protection of Animals (VSPCA), who came with his canine to Happy Streets.
 
 Apart from the dog show, the regular rejuvenating Zumba also saw enthusiastic participation by Vizagites, especially children while Daniel’s troupe Dance Nation and Peter’s music group was cheered by the audience at RK Beach side of Beach Road. At the end, little S Sreenaina, left the audience awestruck with her wonderful and professional dance performance to Telugu movie tracks from Allu Arjun’s ‘Son of Satyamurthy’ and Chiranjeevi’s ‘Khaidi No 150.’ Sreenaina, a fifth class student of  , doesn’t go to dance classes. She learnt it all by herself watching movies. 
 
 Besides, archery, tug-of-war, basketball, shuttle, skipping, and skating also saw wide participation by children. Pawan Kaushik, a seventh class student of  , said, “I love to play archery, football and basketball though I try out other games as well. It’s really a pleasant experience to be part of Happy Streets every Sunday morning.”
 
 Organised by The Times of India, Happy Streets is an initiative by   and   and is presented by   in association with Vaibhav Jewellers, Vignan Group of Institutions and Oakridge International School.
 
