MUMBAI: A Mumbai court remanded former   chairman Yogesh Agarwal and eight others to judicial custody, a day after they were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) for suspected fraud in loans made to the Vijay Mallya-founded   Airlines.
 
  The arrests on Monday shocked bankers, who saw the move as a witch hunt against executives powerless to act in the face of political pressure and forced to extend loans to companies against their better business judgement. ET spoke to a dozen or so bankers who said defaults stemming from legitimate commercial failures were being unfairly tarred with the brush of corruption.
  
  “The Kingfisher failure is a normal business failure,” said KC Chakrabarty, formerly Reserve Bank deputy governor and before that chairman of state-owned  . “So many accounts have failed. Why are questions raised only about Kingfisher? How have banks given loans to (state-owned)   and discoms (power   companies), when their financial condition was equally bad?”
  
  The fear of unwarranted retribution is likely to quell any revival in credit, which has to rise if the government is to achieve its goal of driving investment, a push that’s critical for economic growth. The credit sanction process will slow down even further, while a large number of loans could be questioned, throwing the banking industry into chaos, executives said.
  
  If investigators begin questioning the processes that banks follow to sanction loans, decision-making at state-owned lenders — 70% of the market — will come to a halt, said bankers, especially in cases that require the exercise of discretion.
  
  “We will see banks forming another layer of a committee to deliberate on loan proposals and this means that turnaround time will go up, affecting both banks and the borrowers,” said a general manager at a bank who did not want to be named. “If a borrower fails to repay loans to PSU (public sector unit) banks, are bankers who sanctioned the loan accountable to CBI and CVC (Chief Vigilance Commission) which will see mala fide intentions?”
  
  Consultant Ashwin Parekh said bankers will need to be reassured that they have nothing to fear. “The lenders’ sentiment will need to be addressed,” he said.
  
  To be sure, the government has previously said that a distinction should be made between corruption and genuine business failures.
  
  The detentions are also likely to have an impact on debtrestructuring exercises, an essential part of the revival process.
  
  “The two debt recast programmes like the scheme for sustainable structuring of stressed assets or S4A and strategic debt restructuring (SDR) will require bankers to take decisions around valuations and sale of assets or equity. Some bankers will be hesitant to take decisions now,” said another banker who also preferred anonymity. While the bankers were unanimous that the corrupt should be punished, they said the way CBI is pursuing the case seemed it was questioning the regulations itself. Between 2008 and 2015, loans of a number of companies below investment grade were restructured under the corporate debt restructuring (CDR) scheme and even those could be open to questioning now, they said.
  
  Monday’s arrests were linked to a loan of Rs 950 crore made by IDBI Bank. CBI has asked how IDBI Bank could lend to a company that’s below investment grade.
  
  
 
  
  A senior banker at IDBI Bank, who did not want to be identified, said the bank and its former executives were victims in the case.
  
  “It seems that they have found some evidence of Mallya having used funds for activities other than for what it was lent. The rating of   was BB, that was lower than the investment grade and the funds were sanctioned after the board approval, which is the established procedure,” the person said. “But this was not the only loan sanctioned that was below investment grade. Banks have also funded Air India and  , which were below investment grade. So it’s a decision that went wrong. Will CBI interrogate other cases where banks have lent to companies that are below investment grade but are doing well now?”
  
  Apart from Agarwal, those arrested included former IDBI Bank officials OV Bundellu, SKV Srinivasan, RS Sridhar and BK Batra. The exemployees of Kingfisher arrested included A Raghunathan, Shailesh Porkar, Amit Nadkarni and AC Shah.
  
  RBI has been pushing banks to recognise the bad loans on their books to improve finances. That has sparked public anger directed at businessmen like Mallya with crony capitalism and corruption being cited as the reasons for the massing of bad debt on bank books. The Supreme Court has also sought the names of the country’s biggest defaulters. Mallya has not returned to India since leaving the country in March last year, afraid that he won’t get a fair hearing. He has maintained that he isn’t guilty of any wrongdoing and has consistently sought to settle with banks over the Rs 9,000 crore that Kingfisher owes. Chakrabarty said investigators of bank needed to be specialists in the field.
  
  “If you investigate any credit proposal, you will find some loophole in every credit proposal, so should you prosecute all bankers for that? Secondly, we don’t have financial experts in CBI because people at CBI are recruited from the police service. So you need people at CBI who understand this subject (financial frauds and financial transactions),” he said. “Investigative authorities should have people who understand financial frauds. There has to be a banking crime investigator. It has to be a different type of authority.”
  
