PANAJI: The question of the hour remains,where will chief minister-designate   contest from? The BJP core committee cleared the air on Monday and indicated that Parrikar is likely to contest from Panaji constituency. It has also put to rest media speculation that former deputy chief minister   will vacate his seat.

 There was strong indication that D’ Souza would be asked to step down as Mapusa MLA due to health reasons to pave way for Parrikar. The core committee on Monday held a meeting to discuss various issues related to government formation. Parrikar told the committee that he will make a decision as to where he will contest from at the appropriate time. 
 
 After the meeting, D’ Souza told mediapersons that he has not been informed by the party that he has to vacate his seat to allow Parrikar to contest. “I will think about whether I have to vacate my seat after I get a proposal from the party,” D’ Souza said.
 
 BJP general secretary Sadananad Tanawade told TOI that Parrikar will not contest from Mapusa. If one goes by the BJP leader’s statement then Parrikar will have no choice then to contest from Panaji, a political observer said. 
 
 There is already buzz in Panaji that Parrikar will contest from the state capital.
 
 A senior BJP leader said that if D’Souza, who was second in command in both the Parrikar and Laxmikant Parsekar-led governments, had been asked to resign to accommodate the former defence minister then it would send the wrong single in the state.
 
 In 2014 when Parrikar was elevated to Delhi as defence minister, he vacated the Panaji constituency and Sidharth Kuncalienker was elected as the MLA. Kuncalienker retains the seat in recently-concluded assembly elections.
 
 On whether he will vacate his seat to allow Parrikar to contest from the state capital, Kuncalienker on Sunday had said that he has always followed the party’s decision and he will abide by the its diktat.
 
 After governor Mridula Sinha appointed Parrikar as chief minister, Kuncalienker was quick to make a Facebook post“Thank you, Panaji for your Support, Love & Trust in me &  . I will continue to serve my constituency for many years to come.”
 
