NEW DELHI: In 2009, Radha was five minutes late for her India-bound flight from the UK and was denied a boarding pass. She had to book another airline. While hearing her case eight years later,   said that airlines indulge in overbooking that causes a lot of inconvenience to passengers who are left out from their scheduled flights despite having confirmed reservation. 

 Dr B C Gupta, presiding member at the commission, said the policy that takes care of such passengers and makes arrangements to give them a seat in alternative flights in the shortest possible time is “opaque” and no clear guidelines are available for it. 
 
 Radha Kejriwal, a student of Cardiff University, had reached the London airport at 7.40pm. The scheduled departure of her flight was at 8.50pm. The airline said Radha, who reached the airport 70 minutes prior to the departure of the flight, was supposed to reach the check-in counter 75 minutes before departure. However, nothing was produced on record to show the prescribed time for reporting at the check-in counter. 
 
 “The facts and circumstances on record establish beyond any doubt that this was an overbooked flight. According to the airline, three passengers had already volunteered to opt out of the flight and had been sent to a hotel,” the commission said. Radha, therefore, deserved to be compensated under the “denied boarding category”, it said. And since the flight was to start from   for Delhi, European Union rules showed that Radha was entitled for 600 euros (Rs 41,000 approx) in compensation. “The complainant deserves to be given compensation to the tune of Rs 83,292 for the additional money spent by her for boarding the alternative flight,” the commission ruled.
 
 More importantly, while granting the Rs 1.24 lakh compensation, the commission said that the matter needs to be studied in detail by the aviation regulator and a rational policy needs to be evolved so that passengers left out from overbooked flights don’t face harassment or inconvenience. “A copy of this order be sent to the secretary, department of civil aviation, Government of India, as well as the director-general of civil aviation to hold deliberations on the issue and evolve a set of guidelines,” directed the commission.
 
