KOLKATA: As anxious viewers made   to their   on Tuesday afternoon, complaining about their   in the middle of the  , little did they know that it was a   that prevented them from watching the Aussie downfall. The disruptions, explained broadcasters and cable and DTH operators, were caused by a natural phenomenon, called sun outage. Though several residents complained that some of the channels blanked out for around half-an-hour, officials claimed the “snag“ did not last that long. Around 15 channels were affected.

 Explaining sun outage, officials said it occurred when the sun, the satellite and the receiving station on the earth fell in one line. “The radiation from the sun interferes with the satellite's signal, disrupting transmission of video,“ said Soumitra Bose, an MSO technical head, adding the phenomenon affected transmission for eight minutes from 1.5pm till 1.13pm on Tuesday .
 
 Tata Sky CEO Harit Nagpal said the outage lasted 15-20 mi nutes and that it had been happening for five-six minutes over the past few days. “We cannot do anything. This happens twice a year and is expected to recur in September,“ he said. During the outage--12.15pm to 12.35pm for Tata Sky--the service provider flashed a notice on TV screens, explaining the phenomenon.
 
 ASiti Cable officials confirmed the outage: “We told our call centres to inform viewers that nothing could be done about it. Transmission resumed only after the sun moved away from the signal's path and the beam reappeared. It can recur on Wednesday and Thursday .“
 
 Even as the cosmic phenomenon played out, Australia lost its first wicket (Matt Renshaw) around 12.30pm and another (David Warner) around 1.05pm. “I did not want to miss watching a single ball. But the screens went blank after Renshaw hit Ishant Sharma for a boundary in the first over. By the time the transmission resumed, Renshaw was in the pavilion,“ said Arijit Saha from Beliaghata. Vikas Shaw from Kakurgachhi said some channels showed a message of “bad signal“ and some “sun outage“. “My cable operator said it was an unavoidable natural phenomenon,“ he said.
 
