AHMEDABAD: Sadiq Jamal Mehtar, a Bhavnagar youth, was killed by city crime branch personnel in an allegedly fake encounter in 2003. His father has approached the Gujarat high court and sought compensation from the state government of Rs 50 lakh for his son’s ‘murder’.

 Petitioner Jamalbhai moved the high court through advocate  , and the high court has sought reply from the state government in response to the demand for compensation.
 
 Opposing the demand, government pleader   submitted before the court on Tuesday that whether the encounter was fake or genuine has not finally been decided. The matter would be clear only when the trial ends, the government pleader said.
 
 To this, advocate Iyer argued that the state government should not oppose the demand because it is a government agency, the CBI, which has filed a chargesheet in this case. Hence, opposing the demand will only help the crime branch officials accused of hatching a conspiracy to kill Sadiq. Further hearing in the matter is scheduled after two weeks.
 
 The petitioner has mentioned in his plea that he “has a right to claim compensation given the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case”. This is because his son was in police custody at the time of the encounter. He cited various judgments of the   in which the apex court in the past had directed the state governments concerned to compensate for the death of citizens killed in police encounters.
 
 The petitioner submitted that the entire story justifying the encounter was fabricated by retired DIG DG Vanzra and in-charge DGP PP Pandey to make it appear that the life of then chief minister   was in constant danger from Muslim terrorist elements. He accused the Gujarat police of doing the same in other cases also.
 
 After the high court ordered a CBI probe, eight officials working with the city crime branch in 2003, including DySP Tarun Barot whose service has been extended by the government post-retirement, were charge-sheeted by the central agency. All the accused persons are now out on bail.
 
 Sadiq was killed in an alleged shoot-out on Jaunary 13, 2003 in Naroda. After his death, cops dubbed him a terrorist out to kill Modi at the behest of Pakistan-based terror outfits in order to avenge the 2002 riots.
 
