Jodhpur: Assistant professor of the Jai Narayan Vyas (JNV) University Raj Shree Ranawat was suspended by the university administration on Thursday for her failure to appear before the inquiry committee to probe the allegations of the anti-national speech by a JNU professor Nivedita Menon.

 The decision was taken in the Syndicate Meeting held on Thursday where the report of the committee was placed before all the members.
 
 Confirming the decision, vice chancellor R P Singh said that Ranawat has been suspended considering the inquiry report of the committee and her disobedience of the orders to appear before the committee. 
 
 Ranawat had been summoned by the committee a number of times, but she did not appear before the committee to present her side and went on leave.
 
 Meanwhile, the committee spoke to a number of persons including the photographer, who had recorded the address of Menon, who told the committee that he had been approached by Ranawat and deleted the recording on her insistence.
 
 Committee also took it seriously as a gesture of Ranawat’s attempt to erase the evidences and recommended action against her.
 
 She was also served a notice by the vice chancellor but she replied to that notice a week later stating that she would produce her reply only in the court when required.
 
 Besides, an FIR against Menon was also registered by the police on the complaint of the university administration, which was followed by a petition against her in the court and agitation by the ABVP demanding action against Menon and suspension of Ranawat.
 
 It may be recalled that in a seminar organized by the English department of the university on February 2, Menon had allegedly presented Indian map upside down and had also commented about the national flag and Bharat Mata, while talking in a session on “History Re-construed through Literature”.
 
 Later, however, Menon had clarified that she was quoted in wrong sense and also provided justifications about some of her statements in the address about India and its flag.
 
 
