VADODARA:   (GCMMF) on Monday hit out at the   (VMC) for demolishing four   parlours in the city on Sunday. The   too shot back at GCMMF stating that there were gross violations in the parlours and the representatives of the dairy giant had themselves agreed to remove the structures, but blamed the VMC later.

 On Sunday four Amul parlours at Alkapuri, Badamdi Baug, Khanderao market and railway station area were razed. Terming the move as “illegal, unjustified and arbitrary action”, GCMMF said VMC’s move has not only resulted into loss of Rs 50 lakh to 36 lakh to small and marginal farmers of Gujarat, who are owners of Amul brand, but has also added to inconvenience to citizens of Vadodara.
 
 GCMMF’s managing director R S Sodhi said India’s largest food products marketing organization will seek compensation from VMC for razing the parlours, each of which were constructed at the cost of Rs 12.5 lakh by the federation. Amul said that for reasons unknown to it, the parlours were demolished “without any prior notice or intimation.”
 
 VMC commissioner Dr  , at the other end, said that the structures were constructed without any building permission in VMC premises including heritage structures, green spaces and road line. 
 
 No formal agreement was signed and many conditions of allotment were violated. The violations, Rao said, included parlours not having food and shops and establishments registrations. 
 
 The parlours, according to Rao, were sublet without VMC permission. Sodhi said that similar to other corporations of   including that in Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot, VMC after due resolutions in their committees had assigned 18 sites to GCMMF for construction of parlours at public gardens of which 13 were eventually constructed. 
 
 The assignment orders along with the terms and conditions were issued on August 20, 2015 after which necessary advance deposits were paid. The sites were surveyed by designated surveyors and after due verification possession letter was issued to commence construction.
 
 Rao stated that even Amul officials had agreed to the violations in the meeting on April 8. “They agreed to remove structures on their own to avoid confrontation with VMC. All four shops were vacated by franchisees under instructions from Amul officials and not VMC officials,” he said. 
 
 “It is unfortunate that a prestigious institution like Amul has stooped so low as to grossly violate rules and regulations and then defend itself by making counter-allegations against VMC,” Rao said.
 
