KOLKATA: There is no hope of schools reopening in Darjeeling anytime soon. The all-party meeting that happened on Tuesday did not discuss education at all, complained heads of schools. They were banking on the much-awaited announcement of allowing a window to schools, considering the fact that students in their board exam years have to register for the test by month-end.

 The school heads had met two days ago and prepared a charter of requests that was handed over to the Morcha leadership for consideration. But they were crestfallen when it was left out by the end of Tuesday's meeting. “We were told the strike will continue. Just that and nothing else. We are in a state of despair. It is the question of the academic lives of so many children. We don't know where else to appeal,“ said  , head of Himali Boarding School. He was part of the school heads' meet in Siliguri where the charter was drawn up.
 
 The charter suggests how schools can run without clashing with the bandh. “We could ask the children to come to school without uniform for a couple of hours each day so that the classes could be run informally ,“ suggested Father Kinley , Jesuit provincial and former principal of  's  , who had given leadership to schools during similar deadlocks in the past.
 
 The charter also suggested students be allowed to come in at 8am and leave by 1pm, much before the usual closing time. A new routine of absolutely essential work would be followed during these few hours. “We respect the strike and they should respect the fact that children, especially the final-year ones, need to finish their huge syllabi. We have already lost so much of our schooltime and cannot afford to lose a single day,“ rued a school head.
 
 The charter said in case the people on strike are unwilling to let students of the entire school attend classes, at least those in Classes IX-XII should be kept outside the purview of the bandh as they might otherwise lose a precious academic year. “We will probably have to write to the Delhi board, to which most schools are affiliated, to either postpone the registration dates or to hold a special camp in Siliguri where students can attend classes. We will wait for a week and then start discussing among ourselves whether this can be pushed,“ Subba added.
 
  of Manipur, whose son had taken admission this year at St Joseph's, said he was feeling helpless that his son was being forced to stay at home when his friends in schools elsewhere are racing ahead with their syllabus. “In Plus-II, there is a sudden jump in the standard of studies. Each day is crucial and he is missing school for nearly a month now,“ he rued. Ekta Shaw (11), an ex-student of  ,  , faced this problem for years, and had to join the Newtown School, Kolkata.According to her parents, every time a strike broke out in Darjeeling, they got calls from the school authority to pick up their child as the school couldn't take any responsibility and it was very difficult for them to manage to go there in such an emergency situation from Kolkata.
 
