MADURAI: Observing that it is not an ordinary case of commercial conspiracy and theft, but involves theft of national treasure, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court dismissed the   petition of Sharad Kumar Dugar who has been on run in a case that pertains to the smuggling of several crores of rupees worth idols, to abroad. It may be recalled that the court, had earlier granted him an interim advance bail.

 Dismissing his advance bail plea, justice J Nisha Banu said, “It is seen from the records that the respondent (inspector general of police, idol wing CID A G Pon Manickavel) has geographically narrated the crime involved and major role played by the petitioner (Sharad Kumar Dugar) along with the other accused. As far as the gravity of offence is concerned, it is not an ordinary case of commercial conspiracy and theft, but involves theft of national treasure. The act of the petitioner at the most could be seen that it is crime against our nation’s cultural and historic heritage.”
 
 In a given situation, this court was of the firm view that a great deal of investigation is essentially required to be done in respect of the exclusive role played by the petitioner to ferret out the entire ramifications surrounding the illegal export of stolen idols, which are more than 900 years old coupled with the sentiments of a large number of people, the judge said. 
 
 “The investigation done by the police has achieved tremendous progress and made all out efforts in recovering those stolen idols. Therefore, citing the delay aspect, the petitioner cannot wriggle out from his involvement in taking away the national treasure of our country,” the judge said adding that prima facie case has been made out in this case by the police and the petitioner has not even made an iota of convincing reason for considering anticipatory bail to him.
 
 The affidavit of the petitioner is totally bereft of any particulars and lack of merits. Therefore, the court had no hesitation to hold that the petition was liable to be dismissed, the judge said.
 
  Meanwhile, the high court bench has adjourned an advance bail plea of the deputy superintendent of police I Kader Batcha from   who has been on run in the   case to July 28.
 
