KOLKATA: State governments will have full freedom to keep back   or not at all, as proposed in amendments to the   (RTE) Act, from the   2018-19. The schedule of annual school exams and the time of holding a   for detained students will also come under the domain of  .

 A senior officer in the HRD ministry’s school education department said on Tuesday students who fail in classes V and VIII will be retained in the same class till they clear their re-assessment papers, to be conducted by the  . 
 
 The MHRD source said complete freedom will be given to states to re-introduce the   policy. “We have discussed this issue with the states. Already, 25 states have agreed to bring back detention policy in schools,” the official said. States willing to stay away from introducing the same will be free to do so, he pointed out.
 
 This comes just three days after HRD minister Prakash Javadekar’s RTE amendment talk drew criticism from state education minister Partha Chatterjee, who called it an “attempt to saffronise education” as the changes were not discussed with state governments.
 
 The official, however, said that state governments won’t be able to detain students in other classes according to their whims.
 
 “Either students will be detained in classes V and VIII or there won’t be any detention in other classes,” he said.
 
 On Saturday, Javadekar had said: “Students will take the annual examination in March, failing which they will be given an opportunity to write the re-examination in May. However, if they do not manage to secure the pass grades in the re-test as well, they will have to repeat class.”
 
 The return to the detention policy will make the system more accountable, the minister said. “We will not compromise on the quality of education. There has to be a genuine assessment of teaching and learning,” he said. 
 
 At present, schools hold examinations to evaluate students but cannot detain them till class VIII.
 
 The Bengal government, however, does not want the number of school dropouts to increase. This would mean a complete failure of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scheme, Chatterjee felt. “So, we would be happy to take a re-test after conducting remedial classes,” a state school education department official said.
 
 
