GURUGRAM: Rampant mining is going on unchecked in the Aravalis leading to large-scale ecological degradation, an investigation by TOI has revealed. Illegal mining activities have been reported in a 10-acre area at Tauru in Sohna.

 Shocked by what it found to be brazen exploitation of the ecologically sensitive zone, the   had put a blanket ban on all mining activities in the   hills in 2002. But on the ground, that order is flouted, and with impunity. 
 
 Thanks to increased mining activities in the area during the past three-four months, small water bodies in two villages —Bhango and Chahalka — have dried up. “The lakes have turned into mining sites. At least 10 trucks are spotted in these mining sites which are spread across the 10-acre land located at the border of the two villages every day,” a resident in the area said, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Loud thunders of dynamite blasts, according to villagers, are heard regularly in the region during night. “The sound of explosions can be heard in the 4-km radius around the old mining pit. The activities of mining mafia start with drilling and placing of explosives in the hills in the evening. And blasts are carried out in night,” a resident of Chahalka village told TOI, adding that armed men of the mining mafia made sure that nobody dares to stop them.
 
 According to the mining department, acting on the complaints received from villagers in Chahalka and Bango, two FIRs have been registered at Tauru police station. “We received tip-off on mining activities in Chahalka and Bhango. However, we are not aware that it has been still going on. These are old abandoned  . I will ensure the ban on mining is enforced strictly in the area,” said RS Thakran, mining officer, Gurgaon.
 
 Deep mining pits, city-based environmental analyst Chetan Agarwal said, has led to shrinking of water holes in these villages. “Important watering holes for wildlife in the Aravalis need to be protected. The Aravali hills are an important wildlife corridor. Mining in these areas lead to destruction of important watering holes,” he said.
 
 According to environmentalists, mining is carried out in the area for the construction of boundary walls, and to set up stone-crushing facilities. “Real estate and mining are two sides of the same coin in the case of Aravalis. Firstly, the construction of stone walls in the hills should be curbed,” said Agarwal. “Stone crushing facilities are still operating in Faridabad. Stones are being transported to nearby areas for real estate projects. The ban on mining can’t be enforced completely unless the authorities curb construction activities around Aravalis, which promotes illegal mininig,” Jitender Bhadana, an environmentalist, said.
 
 Villagers blamed both police and the mining department for rampant illegal mining activities in Gurgaon. 
 
 “We can hear the sound of explosions and see movement of vehicles and earth moving machines used for mining. We often inform authorities about such non-forest activities, but the mining mafia bribes police and the department’s staff and go scot-free,” a villager said. The Supreme Court banned illegal mining activities in Aravali hills spread across 448 sq km in Gurgaon, Faridabad and Mewat of Haryana around 15 years ago.
 
 
