PANAJI: Two days after Congress MLA from   resigned to support the Manohar Parrikar-led government,   (BJP) seems to be wooing another opposition legislator as part of its strategy to provide stability to the government.
 
  Speculations are rife that BJP is wooing Mandrem Congress MLA  , who emerged as a giant killer when he defeated chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar by a massive margin.
  
  The idea behind the move, sources say, is to bring stability to the government and also to destabilize the Congress, which emerged as the single-largest party in the February 4 assembly polls. With Vishwajit’s resignation, the strength of the Congress has come down to 16 seats in the 39-member assembly.
  
  To woo Sopte, senior BJP leaders held meetings with Sopte. Sources said that BJP wants the Congress MLA to resign before the budget on March 24.
  
  A   who was part of the negotiations said that nothing is finalized as of now. “We are sure we will be able to convince him to join BJP. It can go either way,” the MLA said.
  
  Sopte, speaking to STOI, said that an offer has been made to him to join BJP, but has decided to continue in Congress. “People have voted for me on a Congress ticket, and it was an anti-BJP vote,” Sopte said. “How can I can join BJP when I was elected by defeating then BJP chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar,” he asked.
  
  He also said that the people of Mandrem would not accept him joining BJP. “I have won the Pernem seat with a margin of over 7000 votes,” Sopte said.
  
  When contacted, BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar said that there are around four Congress MLAs who are in touch with BJP, but that the party isn’t in favour. “We don’t want any more Congress MLAs in BJP to create more confusion,” Tendulkar said.
  
  BJP, which won 13 seats in the recently-concluded assembly poll, formed the government with the support of three MLAs each from Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and Goa Forward Party (GFP), and two independents.
  
  Out of 12 cabinet berths (including chief minister), ten have been filed up. Of the two vacant spots, one is likely to be filled by Rane.
  
  Sources said that Rane is likely to join the BJP and contest on a BJP ticket. The condition is that if he is not made minister, he may contest on from the Sattari Yuva Morcha, a party he owns.
  
  There is a growing resentment among BJP MLAs that haven’t been accommodated in the BJP-led coalition government.
