NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Sunday congratulated   ( ) for scripting history by becoming the first country to 
  into space at one go.

 "After the successful mission of sending Mangalyaan to Mars, ISRO scripted a world record in the arena of space. These satellites belonged to various countries...," Modi said.
 
 PM Modi, delivering the 
  , said that ISRO's cost effective, efficient space programme has become a marvel for the entire world.
 
  
 He noted that one of the satellites launched by PSLV is Cartosat 2D, which has become operational and will be of great help in mapping of resources and infrastructure and planning for urban development.
 
 
 In his over 30-minute address, Modi also lauded the role of the farmers for record production of food grains this year.
 
 "Our farmer brothers and sisters have toiled hard to fill our granaries. The hard work of the farmers has resulted in a record production of food grains. More than 2,700 lakh tonnes of food grains have been produced in the country this year. This is eight per cent more than the last record set by our farmers," the Prime Minister said.
 
 He also thanked the farmers for cultivation of various types of pulses. "I am happy that the farmers heeded the needs of our poor people and cultivated various types of pulses on about 290 lakh hectares of land," he said, adding that it will help provide required protein input to the poor. 
 
 On the successful test-firing of a ballistic interceptor missile, he said that it destroyed an 'enemy' missile at an altitude of around 100 km above the earth surface. Hardly four or five countries in the world possess this capability, he said.
 
 "The attraction for science among our young generation should increase. The country needs more scientists. When science is harnessed keeping in mind the needs of the common people, it becomes the most valuable contributor to general humanity," he said 
 
 Referring to a recent competition organised at the 14th Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas, he said socially useful innovations were showcased and one of these was an application developed to help fishermen locate the most productive fishing zones and get updates about weather and sea conditions.
 
 "There are times when a problem portrays the importance of science for finding a solution," Modi said referring to the 2005 Mumbai floods which led to development of a dwelling structure that saves its occupants and prevents water-logging.
 
 
 The Prime Minister Narendra Modi also stressed on youth to become an "anti-corruption cadre" as part of the "cleanliness" drive.
 
 "Lead this movement. Take it further as it has a very major and prominent role in the fight against corruption and black money. To me, each and every individual involved in this mission constitutes a new anti-corruption cadre in the country. In a way you are a soldier in the cause of cleanliness and purity," the Prime Minister said.
 
 He said gradually people are "shedding their hard currency mindset" and moving towards digital currency and the youth are leading the way using their mobile phones as the new tool to make and receive payments.
 
 "10 lakh people, over 50,000 traders have won prizes and about Rs 150 Crores rupees has been given as 
  ,"he said, adding, "Digital payment is being accepted by the people of India with open hands. Over Rs 1.50 crore has been spent on awarding the people under the scheme."
 
 He said the digital payment schemes will complete 100 days on April 14, the 126th birth anniversary of B R Amdedkar and people should help 125 people download the BHIM application on their mobile phone for digital transactions.
 
 Referring to his favourite Swachh Bharat campaign, he said "psychological barrier" should not come in the way even while cleaning toilets. Some senior bureaucrats had recently demonstrated on how to clean a 'twin pit' toilet, he said.
 
 "They also displayed as to how convenient these new technique toilets are and that there is absolutely no inconvenience and there should be no hesitation in emptying or cleaning these toilets and even the psychological barrier should not come in the way at all," he said.
 
 Modi also used the opportunity to congratulate 'divyang' (physically challenged) players for defeating Pakistan in the final of the Blind T-20 World Cup.
 Referring to the role of women, he said be it the field of sports or space science, they lag behind in none.
 
 The 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' programme is no longer just a government programme, but has become a campaign of societal empathy and public education, he said.
 
 "This, I believe, is a healthy sign," he added.
 
 Talking about the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ movement, Modi said that the nation is moving forward with rapid strides and has now become a campaign of public education.
 
  
 In the past, the prime minister has used the platform to express his views on various issues. On January 29, in his last  , the PM had urged students preparing for exams to 'smile more and score more'. He had also congratulated the families of those who won gallantry awards during Republic Day celebrations on January 26.
 
  PM Modi has also talked about issues related to farmers, the laurels of the armed forces, and the surgical strikes. He had also used the platform to defend his note ban move, which had drained 80 per cent of the cash from the economy.
 
 
 
 
