After reading a book written by the great scientist Albert Einstein, which was gifted to him by his father, 
 developed interest in science, particularly in astronomy. Then as a student, he attended a public talk of renowned astrophysicist 
 , first in Akola and then in Nagpur, following which Wagh decided to move into research. 

 Wagh joined TIFR as a post-doctoral fellow in 1987 and was involved in an image-processing project at the Harvard-Smithsonian Centre for Astrophysics, Cambridge, USA. He later joined his mentor at the Pune-based Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), an autonomous institution set up by the   to promote nucleation and growth of active groups in astronomy and astrophysics in the universities. 
 
 After a brief stint on a project on detection of gravitational radiation in 1991, Wagh returned to Nagpur to establish the   (CIRI), the first non-governmental institute to promote research culture in the city. Next year, the CICR would be organizing an international conference — The physical universe — from February 26 to March 1, in association with Nagpur University, when a host of national and international scientists are expected to participate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A. It was founded in 1992 as a society and public trust and has wide membership from various sections of the society. Many well-organizations like   (HVPM) from Amravati are in its members list. It is also recognized as a centre for higher learning and research by the Nagpur University. CIRI has recognized research guides in mathematics and physics, in particular, under whom aspirants could pursue doctoral research. We focus on promoting research by creating interest of students in science.
 
 
 
 A. CIRI engages itself in developing the science awareness and aptitude among the students through collaborations with different NGOs. In view of interest in astronomical phenomena such as total solar eclipse, opportunities of such events are used to nurture scientific aptitude. The response is so overwhelming, many times, that the available manpower of the participating organizations becomes insufficient towards the end of these programmes. Astronomy, astrophysics, physics of sports, universal relativity, gravitation, mathematics of category theory, mathematics education, and education, in general, are some areas of research we conduct. For experimental studies in the Joshi Effect, CIRI has a well-equipped modern laboratory.
 
 
 
 A. To train the messengers of science, CIRI initiates, supports, provides expertise and also co-sponsored the meetings of amateur astronomers. These meetings involve teachers, young students and others in awareness creation campaigns. The experienced students conduct the sky-watching sessions of amateurs. Slide shows on various topics in astronomy, pollution control, are also shown to them on regular basis. We regularly conduct lectures on their various topics of interests. We also help the students participating in the various science Olympiads by conducting special training sessions for them.
 
 
 
 A. To inculcate research in students, we need to expose them to the research activities being conducted world over. Conferences of various nature, workshops, colloquium, and talks, must be part of their routine activity, which we badly lack. Places like Raman Science Centre plays a good part in this respect. However, those are only a part of the solution, because there are no actual researchers at these centres. For developing research culture, we regularly conduct seminars in city on topics like complex systems, gas sensors, human side of animals, lighting and surgery, the Joshi effect, technology management, nano-materials, nuclear reactor safety, earthquakes and tsunamis, how to make telescopes, among others. We also conduct short courses on front-line topics like quantum computing. We conduct regular conferences on topics like advanced mathematics, general relativity, cosmology, laser technology, materials science, and mathematics education.
 
 
 
 
 A. The philosophy behind ‘The physical universe’ conference is that of bringing theory and observations together, with extra discussions during the sessions. We’ve therefore selected topics that are of direct relevance to this philosophy. Those included — observations of the physical universe, theories of the physical universe, fundamental theories of physics, and other aspects of the physical universe. We will have a special session on the Indian contributions. Specifically, we will cover the Mars Mission-II, AIRES/AstroSat, instrumentation for space programmes and others. For the benefit of young students and general audience, we would organize evening talks that are open to the public. Some of these talks will be arranged in nearby schools and colleges, for the benefit of their students and staff.
 
