BATHINDA: Adding to the troubles of AAP candidate from Bagha Purana in Moga, Gurbinder Singh Kang, half a dozen persons, including a plumber and a labourer, on Monday accused him of not paying the money for availing various services nearly two years ago.

 Plumber Dildar Singh of Dhuddi village in Faridkot and labourer   accused Kang of not paying them their dues for small labour jobs. A trader alleged that a cheque given by Kang to him was dishonoured nearly two years ago. A farmer also accused him of not giving him money for taking care of his farmhouse for a year.
 
 The labourer and the plumber made the allegations at an upscale hotel of Moga while talking to newspersons. They did not disclose who had called them to a costly hotel to address the media.
 
 Kang is facing opposition from the AAP workers, who call him an outsider in Bagha Purana. He termed the allegations as a political design of opposition parties to defame him. A score of AAP workers had protested at Nihal Singh Wala rally, addressed by AAP convener   on November 22, 2016, and had called Kang as an outsider.
 
 Dildar said, “I had undertaken a sanitary job at Kang’s farmhouse at   nearly two years ago but he failed to give my Rs 15,000.” Harpreet said he worked at the farmhouse for two months but Kang did not pay him Rs 18,000. Dildar and Harpreet said, “We kept quite for long as we were alone and Kang is a senior leader of AAP. However, today we mustered courage when more people came together.”
 
 Trader Iqbal Singh of Nathuwala village said he had installed a sprinkler system at Kang’s farmhouse and he owed Rs 1.04 lakh to him. “Kang gave me cheque of Rs 50,000 on January 17, 2015, of   but it bounced for want of sufficient funds in the account. Kang did not give me the money even after that but I did not involve myself in the litigation as I thought it will take a lot of time.”
 
 Farmer   of Raoke village in Moga said, “I took care of his crops for over one year for Kang but he did not pay me my dues. He had promised to ensure my daughter migrated to Canada, but he did not keep his promise.”
 
 When contacted, Kang told TOI, “These allegations are totally baseless and wrong. These are being levelled on the instructions of opposition parties who are worried of AAP getting a stupendous response from people.”
 
 He said he had given Rs 1 lakh to Nirmal and had receipt of payment. “As far as the sprinkler system is concerned, I had engaged a company, which had nothing to do with Iqbal. As the system turned faulty, I had an issue with the company. I had duly paid to the plumber and labourer. Opposition parties are raking up a non-issue. Why did these persons not make such allegations earlier?”
 
