DARJEELING: Tourists visiting the Hills will now have to shell out more for their   rides. 

  (DHR) has revised fares for the 16km Darjeeling-Ghoom joy rides on steam locomotives to Rs 1,300 from February 1. The diesel rides for the same journey has been raised to Rs 800. The earlier fare was Rs 1,100 and Rs 630 for steam and diesel locos respectively. DHR officials said the hike has come after two years to facilitate self-sustenance of the heritage trains. 
 
 “The last time we increased the fares was in February 2015. That hike was necessitated because of inflation,” said DHR director  . Before the hike in 2015, the fare was a more comfortable Rs 400 for both.
 
 At present, DHR runs nine rides (six on the steam and three on diesel engines) thrice a day from Darjeeling to Ghoom and back. Long-distance services are also available thrice a week from Darjeeling to New Jalpaiguri station on diesel engines. The fare for the 87km journey from Darjeeling to NJP has also been raised to Rs 1,285 from the earlier Rs 360 per person for the first class and Rs120 for second-class. DHR has decided to do away with the second class journey altogether. The difference in the first- and second-class coaches was mostly the seating arrangement. A first-class coach offers more space and can accommodate around 17 to 21 passengers, while the second-class can seat 32.
 
 The everyday to-and-from ride between Darjeeling and Kurseong has been suspended because of technical issues. The fare, however, has been increased from Rs 210 to Rs 680. “We will restart services at the earliest with the new rates,” said a source. 
 
 The increase in fare comes at a time when DHR officials claimed that they were expecting to break even. DHR incurs Rs 15 crore as annual maintenance cost to run the service. 
 
 Tour operators felt it was not justified to increase the fares for the short rides, though they welcomed the hike in the long-distance fare.
 
 “For a short 16km ride, charging passengers Rs 1,300 is not justified. Tourists primarily take the joy ride and the increase in fares will hit them hard,” said  , a tour operator. 
 
 Pranab Sharma, a local who was at the counter to book tickets, said: “If the fare keeps increasing this way, it won’t be long before the few locals who take the joy ride with their children will stop. In fact, I will have to tell my children to simply look at the train when tourists take the ride.”
 
 
