HYDERABAD: There’s no booby-trap on   (ORR), but speed demons have turned the 8-lane expressway between Gachibowli and   into a death-trap with 600 accidents occurring in four years. At least 44 accidents occurred on the stretch in 2016 alone. While 700 people were injured in accidents since 2012, 50 people have died.

 With accidents on the rise,   (HMDA) asked   (CRRI) to conduct a road-safety audit to determine major cause of accidents and identify most-vulnerable locations on ORR. It also sought possible solutions. “CRRI has given us a draft report on road safety, seeking our remarks,” HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjeevulu told STOI.
 
 Officials said the institute was asked to study 15 to 16 aspects of  , including primary causes, engineering defects, curves, vehicle and driver condition at time of accident and the tragedy sites. HMDA provided data on accidents, traffic volume, composition of vehicles and physical details of ORR such as interchanges and service roads.
 
 The study was conducted over four months from September 2016. CRRI collected all available data and sent teams to visit various stretches on ORR for primary on-field data.
 
 “ORR is designed for a maximum speed of 120 km per hour, especially on Lanes 1 and 2. But analysis of accidents revealed some have been driving at 208 km/hour. Even small cars were found speeding at 110 km per hour when accidents happened. Most accidents were reported on Gachibowli-Shamshabad stretch as traffic volume is high on this 24-km stretch,” said HMDA chief general manager B Anand Mohan.
 
 The report also attributed most accidents to wrong-lane driving to access ORR from service roads. For instance, villagers of Kollur were found to be using an illegal ramp to access ORR while going towards Velumala.
 
 Also, drivers were found to be at fault for not giving proper signals in case of a vehicle breakdown. In such cases, drivers need to take precautions like switching on parking lights to warn others. The study found most people failed to do so, thereby putting everyone at risk.
 
 “CRRI also gave suggestions to prevent accidents. These include providing optical speed bars, double-crash barriers and transfer of bar marking,” said Anand Mohan.
 
