COIMBATORE: On Tuesday morning, people were shocked they had to pay for Rs 73.30 for a litre of petrol at an Indian Oil Corporation bunk on  . A few recalled they had paid around Rs 72.50 a week ago and claimed that prices have gone up by 80 p in just a week. Even as oil companies insist that prices are revised daily to match crude oil prices, consumers and activists cry foul that prices differ from one bunk to another the same day with absolutely no monitoring or regulation.

 The prices of petrol and diesel have been changing every day for the past three days, across bunks. “In a few IOC bunks, the price of petrol and diesel were Rs 73.08 and Rs 61.81 on Sunday. The prices went up to Rs 73.22 for petrol and Rs 62.08 for diesel on Monday. On Tuesday, it further went up by 0.8 p to Rs 73.30 for petrol and Rs 62.19 for diesel,” said a bunk manager at  , who did not want to be named.
 
 There was a time when even a Rs 1 increase in petrol or diesel prices was a major announcement by the central government. Data from bunks show that petrol prices have increased a sizeable Rs 5.40 since July 17 and diesel prices have gone up by Rs 3.85 during the same period. “However, no one appears to have noticed such a drastic price increase, because it is happening on a daily basis,” said activist with   K Kathirmathiyon. “We also do not know how much the crude oil prices are changing every day to warrant a daily increase in prices. None of these companies bothers to update the price on their websites,” he said.
 
 Customers are reporting price differences among bunks of various companies as well as differences among the same company’s bunks. When TOI visited two Hindustan   (HP) bunks, it found one in Thudiyalur charging Rs 73.26 for petrol and Rs 62.16 for diesel. However, the company’s bunk on   was found charging Rs 73.30 and Rs 62.19 for petrol and diesel. IOC bunks and BP too have price difference within their bunks even on a single road. “We do admit there are price changes within our bunks because the price is calculated based on the distance from which the fuel is transported from our centre points to the specific bunk,” said IOC divisional manager Manash Routhrey. “We at the selling side have no role to play, but to update the price across all our pumping stations through our automated systems at 8 pm every day,” he said.
 
 Coimbatore District Petroleum Dealers Association secretary K Rajashekharan says dealers have no role to play in fixing fuel prices. “Honestly, we are yet to be given a formula based on which the price is changed every day. Though it is supposed to match international crude oil prices, it is not on a par with Dubai or Tokyo fuel price indexes, which have seen prices drops at least twice in the past 40 days,” he said. “It is changed in all our systems through an automised mechanism. The difference between bunks would not be more than 5 paise,” he added.
 
 Lorry owners associations say this daily price change regime has been a silent killer for many months now. “A diesel price increase impacts transport across the state, including even public transport. By increasing the fuel price by 40 paise to 80 paise a day, they have managed to hike prices faster than ever,” said A Padmanabhan of the Madukkarai Lorry Owners Association.
 
 Consumer activists say that this daily price change regime has become an excuse for oil companies to fleece customers. “Neither the petroleum ministry nor the state’s transport department and consumer protection departments are monitoring or regulating these prices. “With most customers filling fuel only once or twice a week or even more rarely and in different bunks, many even fail to notice that they are paying more per litre of fuel,” said Kathirmathiyon.
 
 
