

 
 The institution now boasts of a battery-powered   and a rickshaw that ply around the campus. “The golf cart can carry five, while the rickshaw can accommodate six passengers. Both vehicles run about 80 kilometers on eight hours of charge,” informs M S Kedari, security officer of SPPU, adding that they carry students, staff and guests from the main gate to the ladies hostel, administration building, science department, biotechnology department, Jaykar library and back to the main gate.
 
  
  
 While the move to commission green vehicles is being lauded by many, fact remains that these vehicles are far from a permanent solution. 
 Amol Sarwade, a student on the campus says, “Other universities have buses and bicycles to take students around the campus. These two vehicles are providing relief, but they are is not adequate considering the number of students and visitors that the varsity sees on a daily basis.”
 Luckily, the university is aware of this and is planning to rope in more vehicles with more passenger capacity. Kadu, registrar SPPU says, “To ease internal commuting without hampering the environment, the varsity is planning to commission more such vehicles. We are in the process of sourcing more vehicles with a passenger capacity of at least 15.”
 
 
 For the benefit of its female students, the varsity has been plying an SUV from the girls hostel to the library between 7 pm and 11 pm, for several years. This vehicle is also available on call for emergencies. Now, it seems the university’s new green vehicles will also be signing up for night duty. Kedari says, “To manage the increasing number of students these vehicles will also ferry students between the library and hostel at night.”
 
 
  
 Interestingly, the most eco-friendly and economical solution to internal commuting — bicycles — is yet to be implemented here. The varsity has been planning to set up cycle stands at various points on campus, from where students and staff can pick up and drop off cycles. But this is yet to materialise. Nikita Baviskar, a management science student on the campus says, “I was among those who suggested the bicycle project and the senior faculty members and officials liked it. But it is yet to be implemented. The project was discussed in various varsity meetings though.” Even former senate members like Arun Walunj are backing the project. “There was a detailed presentation on the bicycle project, but no action was taken,” he says. 
 
 On its part, the varsity claims that this is being stalled because of issues with vendors. Registrar   says, “Tenders were floated asking organisations to provide bicycle facilities at the varsity, but we got very little response. Now we are getting more response and are also exploring the option of funds under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We will find a solution for it soon.”
 
 
