UDAIPUR: On receiving a summon from   in a six-month-old case, the Patidar quota stir leader   appeared at the Delwara police station on Saturday noon. Hardik was quizzed by the cops for about 30 minutes to find out his involvement in the case which was given by a toll employee of   at NH-8 in Rajsamand district on July 20. Anticipating an arrest or detention, Hardik’s lawyers Rafeeq Lokhandwala and Dileep Patel from Ahmedabad had accompanied him to the police station, however, the cops let him go after recording his statements. 

 The complaint registered under Sections 143, 383 of the IPC was given against Hardik and his aides for abusing and jumping the toll without paying fees. The Patel leader denied all the charges and claimed that he was inside the car with the windows pulled up and therefore didn’t see or hear what happened outside.
 
 Hardik, who arrived in Udaipur on July 17 to spend his six-month extern period had gone to seek Shrinathji’s blessings at Nathdwara temple on his birthday on July 20. While returning to Udaipur, his cavalcade had stopped at the Negadia toll plaza near Delwara. Hardik was seated in ex-MLA Pushkarlal Dangi’s car which was entitled for toll exemption. However, some of the men in other vehicles allegedly messed up with the toll staff and verbal abuses were hurled. The police also procured CCTV footages from the spot. However, the investigation is pending all these months.
 
 “I was served the summon on Thursday night around 9.30 pm and was asked to appear at the police station. They didn’t carry the investigation intentionally all these months and now when I have completed my extern period and leaving Udaipur on January 17, they are finding ways to hold me,” Hardik told TOI. 
 
 The Patel leader had planned to host a dinner for the community men on the eve of his departure from Udaipur, but police has upset his plans. “As a gesture of gratefulness towards everyone who supported me during my Udaipur stay, I planned a dinner for some 2,000 people in a garden near my residence here. But the police has threatened the garden owner not to let the event happen. The state government and Rajasthan police is desperate and trying to intimidate us so as to obstruct our programmes,” Hardik told TOI.
 
