NAGPUR: Over 25 butterfly species, including state butterfly Blue Mormon, were reported in the region during the nationwide mega trail that was recently organized to document butterfly diversity. 

 Organized by   and   on March 5, the event’s aim was to record high diversity of butterflies of the country on one single day. Over 50 locations from the country were shortlisted for the trail at places like Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, entire North-East,  , West Bengal, Western Ghats, Eastern Ghats, and Andaman.
 
 In the state, Pune and Mumbai recorded the highest number of butterfly species with around 48 each. While 18 species were recorded near Wardha Road, 12 were documented in Chandrapur, 14 in Bor and Amravati each, 11 in Wardha and ten near Raj Bhavan premises in the city. Blue Mormon, which is sighted rarely in Vidarbha, was recorded near Bor.
 
 Apart from this, painted lady was sighted at Wardha Road. About 40-50 people from the region participated in the trail in which they documented species of their areas under the guidance of a trail leader. 
 
 Vidarbha has around 175 reported species of butterflies out of which 145 are in Nagpur, informed trail coordinator  , who is the head of department of zoology at Vidyabharti College in Seloo (Wardha) and has written several international papers on ecological, behavioural and biogeographical research of Central India butterflies. “Our region has at least 14 species of butterflies that have been listed as scheduled under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” Tiple said. 
 
 Apart from habitat loss, the species are under threat from large-scale export for live exhibitions overseas. “The demand of butterfly species of our region is very high in countries like China and Thailand where they are used for ornamental as well as exhibit purposes,” Tiple said.
 
 On the ecosystem value of butterflies, president of   Suresh Chopane, who was a part of the trail in Chandrapur, said, “They are the indicators of a healthy biodiversity. About 50% of pollination of plants, especially flowering ones, is carried out by butterflies. A fall in their population would lead to a decline in the number of flowering plants.”
 
 Stating that the weather conditions here are suitable for butterflies, Tiple said that butterfly gardens should developed. “We need to think beyond bird conservation. Butterflies are important components of food chain and it is important to preserve their habitat,” he added.
 
