BENGALURU: Justice P  , a former Karnataka high court judge, is set to take over as the  , a post lying vacant since December 2015.
Governor Vaju Vala cleared the decks for Justice Shetty's appointment after the Karnataka advocate-general forwarded the file with the clarifications on the points raised by the governor.
 
 “We've received a verbal communication from Raj Bhavan that the governor has cleared the name of Justice Shetty for Lokayukta,'' chief minister Siddaramaiah said on Thursday.
 
 The swearing-in is expected to be held next week, a source in the CM's office said.
 
 Justice Shetty , from Udu pi district, earlier served as chairman of the  . He was appointed a judge of the Karnataka high court on December 18, 1995, and the first president of the Karnataka Judicial Academy.
 
 The Union government had appointed him as a oneman commission to go into the causes of the death of 13 persons and injuries caused to a few others in an accident that occurred in the Anjana Hills mines in Chhattisgarh. Designated as senior advocate in 1993, Justice Shetty took up practice in the   and served for a decade.
 
 Last week, the governor had sought clarifications from the government on allegations levelled against Justice Shetty by activists led by SR Hiremath, though his name emerged as the unanimous choice at a collegium meeting held by CM Siddaramaiah recently. The collegium had discussed the names of Justices N K Patil and Anand Byrareddy too. The panel consists high court chief justice S K Mukherjee, speaker K B Koliwad, Legislative Council chairman DH Shankaramurthy, leaders of the opposition in the legislative assembly and council, Jagadish Shettar and K S Eshwarappa.
 
 The institution had remained headless since the unceremonious exit of Justice Y Bhaskar Rao in December 2015. The image of the Lokayukta had taken a huge hit during his tenure, following allegations of corruption and extortion in the office. With a year left for the assembly elections, the government expedited the process, after its two earlier attempts failed to build a consensus in favour of its candidate, Justice SR Nayak. Shetty's name was readily accepted by BJP leaders.
 
