BHUBANESWAR: The   on Friday interrogated  , CMD of   (AT) Group chit fund company, at Jharpada special jail where he has been lodged since May 2013. The development came nearly a month after the serious fraud investigation office grilled him in the prison to chase the money trail in the Ponzi scam. 

 While the ED officials did not divulge what transpired during the interrogation behind bars, sources said the probe agency wanted to trace many benami assets of Sethy and his groups of companies. Significantly, ED interrogated Sethy after more than two years. It had earlier quizzed him in January 2015 by taking him on a 10-day remand.
 
  The ED, however, is yet to turn the heat on politicians, whose names are doing the rounds in the scam. Sethy recently told the media that two BJD ministers fleeced him to shield his business. 
 
 "We suspect Sethy stashed many assets at undisclosed locations. His company is accused of duping investors of nearly Rs 500 crore. But so far, we have managed to trace his assets to the tune of nearly Rs 100 crore," an ED official said. On May 21, 2015, the ED had attached AT Group property to the tune of Rs 84 crore. The property included over 100 acre land worth nearly Rs 79 crore and bank balance and shares to the tune of rupees five crore. 
 
 The commissionerate police, which had earlier probed the AT Group fraud before CBI took over in May 2014, had attached bulk of the company assets during their investigation. The commissionerate police had attached nearly 262 acre land of AT Group, worth over Rs 50 crore. Besides, the police had seized a fleet of luxury vehicles and flats owned by Sethy. In June 2014, the commissionerate police had proposed to the finance department to attach AT Group assets worth nearly Rs 410 crore.
 
 In August last year, the ED had moved a court here, seeking prosecution of Sethy and confiscation of his property it attached. "Under Section 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, we filed a complaint at our designated court (Khurda district court) to prosecute Sethy," said the ED officer. 
 
 The CBI has arrested 18 persons, including BJD MLA Pravat Tripathy, former advocate general Ashok Mohanty and deputy superintendent of police  , in the AT Group scam. 
 
