CHANDIGARH: A day after Haryana government constituted a five-member committee to look into the demands of protesting Jats, the   (AIJASS), which is spearheading the stir, said it was willing to have a dialogue, but not in Chandigarh or Delhi.

 AIJASS has listed a five-point agenda for the five-member panel for initiating the dialogue. AIJASS convener   said besides deciding on the venue for talks in Haryana, the committee should come out with a concrete proposal and supporting details related to the demands of the agitators.
 
 “We are very much clear that the talks would be on the lines of the previous agreements when it comes to the issue of reservations. Secondly, as far as demand related to cases against Jat youths is concerned, we are clear on that. Let the delegation come with all details of the cases and the proposed deadlines of withdrawal of cases,” said Malik.
 
 “The issues are related to employment and rehabilitation of next of those killed and injured in the last year’s violence during the Jat agitation. Despite the fact that the government is trying to provoke the agitators, we are having peaceful protests,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, crowds continue to swell at the Jat protest sites across Haryana, especially in   village of Rohtak that is epicentre of the agitation. On the other hand, various colours of culture were evident in 19 districts in the state where Jat and five other communities, who were denied reservation, have resorted to agitation.
 
 On Wednesday, a group of 500 youths from   (MDU) and local colleges took out a motorcycle procession in Rohtak. As a result, the traffic movement on National Highway-71A connecting Panipat to Rohtak came to a standstill. Shopkeepers brought down the shutters of their shops.
 
 The Jat leaders and officers of the local administration also had an argument over taking out the flag march of paramilitary forces in Rohtak near the protest site of   in Sector 6. The arguments went on for half an hour before the two groups agreed not to interfere in each other’s work.
 
