BENGALURU: Pavements blocked with hoardings and banners and hundreds of two-wheelers jamming roads and sidewalks — Monday was nothing short of a nightmare for commuters on  , Koramangala, as traffic reduced to a crawl, thanks to the chief minister’s delayed visit to the area to launch a slew of civic projects.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah, who laid the foundation stone for a proposed flyover to decongest Koramangala, turned up a good 2.5 hours late, throwing traffic out of gear. The CM, who was scheduled to arrive at   ground, Koramangala 6th Block, at 10.30am to launch several projects in BTM Layout assembly constituency, reached the venue only at 1.15pm.
 
 Such was the chaos that even schoolchildren had no option but to walk on the bustling 80 Feet Road to reach their campuses. To add to woes, none was allowed to use the stretch for 40-odd minutes while the CM was attending the programme. This delayed parents, who had to pick up their kids from schools in the afternoon. "How can a CM cause so much inconvenience," asked an irate parent, whose four-year-old was waiting to be picked up from school.
 
 A vendor who was prevented from setting up her stall in front of the school ground was appalled to see hundreds of cops patrolling the area but none bothering to crack down on those taking over the footpaths. "Vendors like us are often rebuked by cops and have to pay them regularly to put up our stalls at one corner of the footpath, leaving adequate space for pedestrians. But on Monday the same cops took no action when the footpaths were choked with hoardings and bikes belonging to party workers, compelling pedestrians, including children and senior citizens, to walk on the road," he said.
 
 Not just his arrival, the CM’s departure too led to a traffic pile up from Koramangala bus depot towards Forum Mall. Several commuters had to take a diversion from the main road and use the narrow lanes, leading to more bottlenecks. "We have been waiting for half-an-hour for the road to clear up. I don’t know how long it’ll take before I can drop all these kids home," said the driver of a school van ferrying toddlers.
 
 "I left my work and rushed to pick up my son after the school sent a message saying it’d take long for the school van to drop him home due to traffic diversions in the area. Luckily, my workplace is nearby," said a parent.
 
 A techie who missed his job interview at Bannerghatta Road said: "While my interview venue was just 8km from Koramangala, I was stranded at one spot for 25 minutes. I couldn’t even make it for the interview and don’t know if they’ll give me another chance now," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Residents of Koramangala 3rd Block, who were scheduled to meet the CM and hand over a petition against the new zoning regulations, were left frustrated. Said Nitin Seshadri, member of Karnataka Infrastructure Task Force: "In a letter addressed to the CM, we stated the problems that residents would face with the new draft zonal regulations. However, we also wanted to have a face-to-face discussion with him. But due to time crunch and the rush, we were unable to do so, although we managed to hand over the letter to him. He said he’d go through it and do the needful."
 
 
 
 
 The CM laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 2.4km-long, four-lane flyover connecting Ejipura Junction to   via Sony World Junction to ease traffic on that route. He also launched several other development projects in BTM Layout assembly constituency worth about Rs 545 crore. These include comprehensive development of main and ward-level roads, building concrete road for 60km stretch and re-asphalting 300km, construction of 963 houses in Rajendra Nagar, Adugodi, AK Colony, Bhovi Colony and Siddartha Nagar slums by   under Prime Minister’s   (PMAY-HFA) and Indira canteens in eight wards.
 
 
 
 The CM reached the venue late as he had gone to pay tribute to professor UR Rao, who passed away earlier in the day. He stayed there for half-an hour before reaching Koramangala to launch development projects in BTM Layout assembly constituency
 
