HYDERABAD: While Congress president  , on Wednesday tried to mobilize Opposition parties across the spectrum to take on NDA in the Presidential polls, the southern   which has   is all set to tip the scales for the Modi regime and help its candidate romp home to Rashtrapati Bhavan. 

 Miffed with Congress general secretary Digvijaya Singh's tweet that Telangana police set up a fake ISIS website to radicalize Muslim youth, the ruling TRS, which maintained an equidistance with BJP and Congress for the last three years, has apparently decided to support NDA's choice for a Presidential candidate. The TRS will pitch in with the crucial 22,000-odd votes to be the game changer in the Presidential elections in July, top TRS sources told TOI. 
 
 The TRS brass refused to even talk to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on a united Opposition nominee.
 
 TRS, which has 17 MPs and 82 MLAs, commands a vote strength of 22,048 in the Presidential election. In the electoral college, TRS has a strength of 1.9 per cent, enough to push for the victory of the NDA candidate. The ruling combine was short of just 25,354 votes. But after the TRS support to get its own candidate as the next President, the NDA would require a mere 3,306 votes to win.
 
 Though TRS has not made its plans public, the party leadership is in no mood to support the Congress-led coalition now. "The party will decide on whom to support after the announcement of candidates by national parties. Our party president   will take an appropriate decision on this," Kalvakuntla Kavitha, TRS MP and daughter of KCR, told TOI. 
 
 Angry with Digvijaya's ISIS tweet, the TRS cadres burnt his effigy in several towns in the state. Some TRS sympathizers also filed police complaints against the AICC general secretary.
 
 "The comments are uncalled for and a senior leader like Digvijaya should not have done this at this crucial juncture when the Congress is trying to unite all anti-BJP forces in the country. His comments will have far reaching impact in state politics and on future alliances," said a senior Congress leader from the state.
 
 The arithmetic is in favour of NDA, which before Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur assembly election results, was short of 79,274 votes. But BJP's clean sweep in UP has given the party an undeniable edge. While the total votes of BJP in the electoral college stands at 4,33,182, along with its allies, its number has jumped to 5,24,088 votes. The electoral college of the President comprises both MPs and MLAs, and each vote weighs in accordance with proportional representation. While all MP votes bear equal value, the weightage of MLA votes differs from state to state.
 
