LUCKNOW: Former Union minister and ex-Lucknow mayor   died of cardiac arrest in Lucknow on Wednesday morning. He was 56. Das's close aides said he had not complained of any discomfort and had carried on as usual on Tuesday night. On Wednesday morning, after being found unconscious, he was rushed to Lari Cardiology Centre where he was declared brought dead by doctors.

 Das is survived by his wife Alka, son Viraj Sagar and daughter Sona. Condolence messages on Das's death poured in from across political quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Saddened by the demise of former MP and Union minister Akhilesh Das. His active contribution to public life will be remembered.“ 
 
 UP CM  , former CM Akhilesh Yadav, and BSP leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui visited Das's residence to pay their last respects and to condole his sudden death.Congress president Sonia Gandhi and vice president Rahul Gandhi also condoled his untimely death and sent wreaths to be laid on Das' body before he was cremated on Wednesday evening.Sports minister Vijay Goel also tweeted to condole Das' death, calling his passing a loss to the sports in India. 
 
 AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad, Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Sinh and wife Ameeta, UP   chief Raj Babbar and former MLA Akhilesh Pratap Singh, and Congress' disciplinary committee chief Pt Ram Krishna Dwivediwere among the many who came to pay their last respects. Das' last rites were performed at Bhainsa Kund on Wednesday evening.
 
 Son of former UP CM Babu Banarsi Das, Akhilesh Das began his political career with a two-year stint as Lucknow mayor from May 1993 to November 1995. He was then nominated to Rajya Sabha by the Congress and remained a member of the upper house from November 1996 to May 2008.Upon being denied a third term in RS by the Congress, an angry Das then resigned and was re-nominated to the RS, this time as a BSP candidate. Before he quit the Congress, Das had also served as secretary of Cong ress between 2003 to 2006, and as the party's treasurer, and was subsequently appointed Union minister of Steel in the   I regime.
 
 In 2009, Das contested the Lok Sabha elections on a BSP ticket from Lucknow, losing to  's Lalji Tandon. Mayawati, however, nominated Das to Rajya Sabha where he remained until 2014. He then quit the BSP and stayed away from active politics for nearly two years. In January this year, though, Das made a political comeback, returning to the Congress fold and referring to it as his `ghar wapsi'. A former national level badminton player, Das was chased by multiple controversies both in sports, as well as in politics.
 
 As president of the Badminton Association of India and the UP Olympic Association, Das was probed by the CBI along with other office bearers of the Delhi Capital Badminton Association on charges of nepotism in the selection of a team that went to Tokyo for the Youth Sports Exchange Program in 2014. Das also led a gargantuan business empire spanning the fields of education, real estate, hospitality and sports, some of which were established in the name of his father, and other after his children Viraj Sagar and Sona in Lucknow.
 
