ROHTAK: Fifteen kms away from the dharna site at Jassia village where members of Jat community are holding a protest demanding reservation, some 150-odd men with a majority belonging to the community assembled at district headquarters in Rohtak to upgrade their skills and knowledge in order to begin or boost their startups.

 The men aged between 18 and 40 years who have come from Rohtak, Sonipat, Jhajjar, Jind and Delhi are participating in the seven-day certificate course in vocational dairy farming organized by Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LLRUVAS) Centre in Rohtak.
 
 Yashpal Kundu, an MBA in finance from Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar who is one among the participants of certificate programme, said he was undergoing training for building a high-tech dairy in Rohtak on the lines of corporate company Reliance, where he had worked in the past.
 
 “I thought of the startup after I left Reliance. Our youths need to take entrepreneurship instead of hitting the roads for reservation,” he suggested.
 
 Standing at six feet with broad shoulders, Deepak Kumar from Titoli village, who is armed with polytechnic diploma, said his family reared buffaloes and he was here to upgrade his knowledge about dairy farming business to get maximum benefit out of it.
 
 “The government was doing a lot of things to promote entrepreneurship among youths and I learnt a lot in the last seven days at the training programme. I don’t need crutches of any quota to run my family,” he said.
 
 Abhijit, a law graduate from Ghilod village neighbouring Jassia, said he had been running a dairy successfully for 12 months and spending his time in extracting profits out of it rather than running after reservation stir.
 
 “My aim is to build a high-tech dairy in my village from where I can cater to the needs of village and city people. I see a lot of scope in such a venture,” he claimed.
 
 Similarly, Sunil Kumar from Jind district has 18 buffaloes at his dairy where he works with his father and cousins. “Some of my friends sometimes tease me of taking up such a profession, but I tell them that my monthly income is more than that of class-I gazetted officer.”
 
 Dr Rajinder Singh, principal extension specialist-cum-in charge of LLRUVAS Centre, said the training is imparted by the Centre against a nominal fee and over 2000 youths have undergone such a training to rear Murrah, Sahiwal buffaloes.
 
 He said trainees were inspired by examples of cattle rearers who sold a buffalo named Laxmi in 2013 for Rs 25 lakh.
 
 He said selling milk is not the only option before them, but they know that they can make a killing by selling and purchasing animals. Semen of high breed male buffalo is also in big demand, he added.
 
 
