KOLKATA: A four-member   from the state-run   knocked on Justice C S Karnan’s doors on Thursday but had to come back without assessing his mental health, a job entrusted to them by the Supreme Court, after the Calcutta high court judge asserted that they could not do so in the absence of a legal guardian — in his case, either his “wife or son” — and that he was in perfect mental condition.

 The medical team left with its police escort after 70 minutes, with a three-page response from Justice  , but not before he accused seven SC judges of performing “out of cause and jurisdiction” and “requested them to resign”. It was he who had kept the interest of 127 crore Indians in mind, he claimed, and urged the SC judges to close contempt proceedings against him and restore his judicial and administrative work. 
 
 “If a genuine man commits an error knowingly or unknowingly or inadvertently, but later on the said person rectifies his mistake, he is known as a perfect gentleman, after all we are all human beings and not fallible,” the three-page response concluded.
 
 The Supreme Court, on May 1, ordered the state government to form a medical board to examine his mental condition. The order followed a series of orders and counter-orders, with Justice Karnan often “holding court” at his residence to issue orders against eight SC judges in an unprecedented judicial back-and-forth.
 
 The four-member Pavlov team, comprising hospital superintendent Ganesh Prasad, two psychiatrists and a psychologist, reached Justice Karnan’s ground-floor apartment in Tower C of New Town’s plush Rosedale complex at 11.55 am on Thursday. Escorting them was a team of more than 20 Bidhannagar policemen, led by deputy commissioner (headquarters) C Sudhakar.
 
 The doctors tried to enter Justice Karnan’s flat but were asked to wait outside even as policemen barricaded the passage leading to the flat. Justice Karnan came out dressed in a cream suit with a rose stuck on his left pocket after 15 minutes. “What is your purpose?” he asked.
 
 After learning of their intent,   told them any examination of a psychiatric patient must be in front of a guardian. “I do not have a guardian present here. Can you examine me now?” he asked, saying that his wife and one of his sons were in Chennai and his other son was working in France. As the perplexed Pavlov team, which evidently had not thought of this, nodded in the negative, he shook their hands and asked them to have a cup of tea before they left.
 
 One of the team members then asked him for a written response from him to which Karnan agreed; he took them inside and started dictating a letter. The dictation and the typing out of the letter took nearly 40 minutes, following which he signed the letter. “He gave us his reasons for refusing a medical examination in writing and we forwarded the letter to the Supreme Court,” Prasad said on Thursday evening.
 
 Police officials said they had followed the apex court’s orders by escorting the doctors. “Our order was to escort them to Karnan's residence and assist them in performing their duties. There is no question of violating the SC orders,” Sudhakar said. The medical team, however, was not so sure.
 
 Justice Karnan also gave the chairman of the medical board a handwritten letter on his official letterhead that explained why no medical examination could be conducted on him against his wish. He also claimed that the Supreme Court order amounted to “insult and harassment” of a dalit judge. He set aside the SC’s order to form a medical board to examine his mental health, terming it as “irregular, illegal and erroneous”.
 
 
