MITHAPUR(JALANDAR): Shortly after sunrise, India's former hockey captain  , who had revolted against   (SAD) eight months ago, is giving a pep talk to young boys in his home village Mithapur in Jalandhar Cantonment constituency.

 Pargat, who was India's full back during his hockey days, is now playing Congress's forward player's role in Jalandhar Cantonment seat. He is fully backed by a group of 1980-era hockey colleagues.
 
 Sporting a scarf with a Congress symbol, the 51year-old puts his arms around shoulders of his old pals -Ravinder Puar, Surender and Harbans -and tells the youngsters, “You see us old men who brought glory for Punjab. I am sure we can win more medals in other sports in Olympics.“
 
 His old hockey friends are travelling along with him wherever Pargat is facing rebellion in his seat.The Congress had to drop ticket-hopeful Jagbir Brar from party chief Captain  's camp and adjust Pargat in his old seat from where he was elected as a SAD MLA.
 
 Together these friends stir a debate on drugs and political patronage in Punjab and accuse the ruling Badal clan of promoting their private businesses.They are quick to make promises of getting fasttrack courts and sealing of properties of drug peddlers to stop crime if their party comes to power.
 
 “It was in 2001 when my father first told me about discovery of a dozen syringes in the park in my village. That was the first brush I had with the problem of drugs among youth and we all former hockey players got together to launch an academy here.Drugs supply has only grown. Enough is enough.We will go for fasttrack courts and sealing of properties when the Congress comes to power after polls.We need syringe-free gro unds and stadiums. We will be giving mining rights to only select few firms and generate Rs 5,000 crore revenue from that to revive our sports goods industry.We must give hopes to young farmers beyond small agriculture income,“ Pargat tells the villagers.
 
 Jalandhar is known for bat and football manufacturers, who, for years, have been grappling with losses.
 
 “I have come especially from the UK to campaign from my childhood friend Pargat. Why can't we have Mithapur and Sanasrpur academies in rest of Punjab? We will,“ says Puar.His village has around four men representing India at senior and junior level.They are Manpreet sigh, Talwinder, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar.
 
 Pargat shies away from talking about the recent political outfit -Awaaz-ePunjab -he floated with Navjot Sidhu and two independent MLAs -Simarjeet Bains and Balwinder Bains, who later joined Aam Aadmi Party.
 
 “It's a forgotten chapter. I am glad Sidhu and I are together in the Congress now. I have forgiven the Bains brothers. We may be in different camps now but we are fighting a common battle against Badals. Let the best between Congress and AAP win,“ he insists.
 
