KOLKATA: The tunnel-boring machine (TBM) had started its journey from   on April 16, 2016, and exactly a year on, it’s at the most crucial part of the journey. This  , the TBM will enter the river bed and bore through mud and silt for three months to reach Strand Road.

 “Come Saturday, the giant machine will be on its journey to create history in this part of the continent, laying railway tracks underneath the river to reach Kolkata on the other side,” said KMRC chief engineer  . “This will be the biggest challenge of the project. We can’t go wrong anywhere,” he said.
 
 On Monday, TOI entered the tunnel to find engineers and other staffers ensuring there isn’t any leakage. Things have been more or less snag-free so far, even while the TBM crossed the 110-year-old DRM building. But then, there’s no more for complacency, the workers said.
 
 The depth of the tunnel from the surface at this point is 27m. It will increase as the TBM reaches the river. The TBM will be positioned to drill 30m below the river surface, engineers said, covering 580m between Howrah station post-office and Strand Road (the tunnel will open at the KoPT land near North Port police station). The TBM is expected to reach Mahakaran by August or September, this year. 
 
 For the river-bed boring, the TBM will be fitted with heavy rings. The medium and light rings are essentially used for tunneling in land area. The strongest of the rings will be used for the under-water tunnel to guard against seepage and overall protection of the tunnel. The machine can fit 10 to 12 rings per day. 
 
 “More seepage is likely once we start excavating through the river. Additional pumps will have to be installed to drain out water,” KMRC’s geo-technical tunnel expert   said. The river journey, he said, would follow the same technology otherwise, boring and assembling the rings to build the tunnel. 
 
 Interestingly, the underwater tunneling isn’t worrying engineers of Kolkata   Railway Corporation (KMRC), the executing agency. They are bracing for the 1,200m journey from Strand Road to Mahakaran station (at Laldighi in front of Writers’ Buildings) since it involves boring under several old, dilapidated buildings. 
 
 “Tunneling through clay has been done in Singapore and some other developed countries in Asia. But it’s a huge challenge constructing a tunnel through an old and unplanned city like Kolkata,” said Bihari.
 
 
