NOIDA: While the parents in   are about to pay   as per the   in anticipation that the government will bring an ordinance to resolve the   soon, a top official on Sunday said that the government is "working on a legislation on the issue" without making any further assurance.

 As the date for submission of the second quarter fee has already passed in most of the schools (July 15), the parents are looking for a definite action from the government.
 
 However, the Principal Secretary (secondary education)   said that "the state government is working on legislation regarding fees charged by private schools".
 
 Rumours abound that the government is bringing a legislation on fee hike issue by August 15. However, the official did not confirm any such reports.
 Parents of The Khaitan School Sector 40, Mayoor School Sector 126, Sapphire International Sector 70, Modern Public School Shahberi, etc have complained that the schools are forcing them to pay the hiked fee.
 
 On Saturday, a group of parents of students studying in The Khaitan School, Sector 40 tried to deposit the fee as per old fee structure.
 
 "After the Khaitan Public School, Ghaziabad gave transfer certificates to 35 students, most of the parents of Khaitan Noida too paid the fee. However, parents were firm that they will not play into the hands of the school now and will pay the fee as per old fee structure. We met admin officer Rajiv Gupta who denied to accept the fee as per old fee structure," said a parent whose son studies in The Khaitan School Noida.
 
 Such attempts are being made by parents in other schools too.
 
 "We are fighting against a fee hike of 34-35 per cent in three years which has been effected by the school. It accepted the old fee in the previous semester and we did not pay the illegal annual charges too. However, now the school is sending us messages seeking that we deposit the annual charges and the second quarter fee as per the new fee structure," Vivek Jaiswal, a parent whose children study in Sapphire International School said.
 
 He added that at least 30 parents have not paid the second quarter fee and have sought a meeting with the school Principal on Monday.
 
 A parent from Mayoor School told TOI that they too refrained from paying the fee as per the new fee structure and the school is sending messages seeking that the fee be paid at the earliest.
 
 There are around 70 such parents, he said.
 
 Parents have been meeting the district magistrate and district inspector of schools (DIOS) too urging them to ensure there is no extreme step from the schools' side against the children. However, they admit that that at the end, it is the government which has to take a call.
 
 "We are awaiting the government's ordinance on the issue. This fight has become very prolonged but we will continue to pressurize the government for bringing a law which helps fight the illegitimate fee hike by all private schools in UP," Yatendra Kasana, president, All Noida School Parents Association told TOI.
 
 Nidhi Sirohi, Principal, Sapphire International School, told TOI that parents have been explained that if they don't pay the fee, the system will automatically show the outstanding amount. "As a parent, one's obligation is to pay the fee of the child," she said.
 
 Sarita Madhok, Principal, Mayoor School did not respond to queries.
  
 "I will be able to share the school's version on Monday," Rajiv Gupta, administration officer at The Khaitan School told TOI.
 
