It took Dr Dhansingh Chaudhari a little over three years to clear his name of the ‘bogus doctor’ controversy; now, he has gone after the civic offi cials who led to his mental torture

 The tables have turned on the   (PMC). Back in 2013,   had registered an   against a doctor on the grounds that he was a  , and was incorrectly using the honorific ‘Dr’ before his name. A little over three years down the line, now that he has been acquitted of the charge, Dr Dhansingh Chaudhari has filed a Rs 100-crore   against the civic body. Not stopping at that, the hypnotherapist and naturopathist has also filed a criminal case against civic officials who filed the FIR against him. Moreover, he has also initiated contempt proceedings against the officers.
 
 In 2013, PMC had initiated a drive to get rid of unqualified doctors practising in Pune — it had also set up a special body that launched a witch hunt for such practitioners.
 
 It was during this drive in September 2013 that PMC officials took a decision to act against Dr Chaudhari, who runs his practice on JM Road. In October of the same year, Dr Suryakant Deokar, the divisional medical officer with PMC, filed an FIR against Dr Chaudhari in Deccan police station, under Section 33(2) of Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961. He was charged for practising without a valid registration.
 
 Apprehending arrest, Dr Chaudhari moved the Bombay High Court to get the FIR quashed. The court granted him interim protection from arrest. His argument all along was that PMC had ‘targeted him’. “The decision to act against me was taken on September 27, 2013. On September 30 that year, they made a farce of things by checking my papers and seeking an explanation. On October 18, an FIR was lodged. It was clear from the sequence of events that they had made up their mind to act against me and did not believe in even giving me a hearing. All this while, I kept showing them paperwork to prove that I was qualified to use ‘Dr’ before my name, but they did not care to even listen,” Dr Chaudhari told Mirror.
 
 The police, however, did not find any merit in the complaint filed by PMC. The investigating officer studied the papers and inquired with relevant agencies, only to reach the conclusion that there wasn’t evidence to prosecute Dr Chaudhari. The officer filed a ‘C’ summary report before the magistrate, which essentially meant that the case was neither true nor false, and sought its closure. The court asked for a response to this from PMC. Dr Deokar, who was the complainant in the first place, gave a nod to the closure report as well. The case was finally closed by the court in April 2016.
 
 “It took about two-and-a-half years for the matter to reach the closure stage. All this time, I faced a lot of queries and questions from relatives, friends, well-wishers, recovered patients, well-known personalities and others. During the time, due to the rank defamation, I suffered mental agony and trauma leading to stress, tension, anxiety, depression, etc. It resulted in a number of health problems and I also sustained huge monetary losses. Therefore, I decided to file a defamation case against PMC,” said Dr Chaudhari.
 
 He has moved the civil court, senior division, seeking a compensation of Rs 100 crore for his defamation and suffering.
 
 Before filing the suit for damages, he sent out a statutory notice to PMC in December 2016. Civic officials responded to the notice in February 2017. Dr Chaudhari found the response to be nothing short of contempt of the court’s order, and has now filed separate proceedings before the judicial magistrate (first class). He has also filed a criminal case with the JMFC court against the seven PMC officials who filed a false case against him. In all these three cases, notices have been sent to all seven officials and they have been asked to be present in court for further proceedings. These include then municipal commissioner Mahesh Pathak, health chief Dr ST Pardeshi, chief law officer Ravindra Thorat, legal officer Manjusha Idhate, assistant health chief Dr Sanjiv Wavare, and divisional medical officers Dr Suryakant Deokar, Dr Amruta Ingale and Dr Maya Lohar.
 
 The defamation case is due for a hearing on July 6 this year.
 
 When Mirror contacted Dr Sanjiv Wavare, assistant health chief of PMC and a member of the committee that decided to file a case against Dr Chaudhari, he said, “Our legal advisers have filed a say in the defamation case. Since the matter is sub judice, I will not be able to comment any further.”
 
