BENGALURU: The controversy over shifting of the   (RGUHS) campus to   has reached the Raj Bhavan. Governor  , who’s also the varsity’s chancellor, has directed vice-chancellor KS Ravindranath not to implement the move till the end of the present academic year.

 The governor’s intervention comes in the wake of the government printing an invitation card for the inauguration of the temporary campus on March 19. Vala has also sought a detailed report from the VC. 
 
 Ramanagara district in-charge minister DK Shivakumar and medical education minister   met Vala on Friday. But details of the closed-door meeting were not available.
 
 In a letter dated March 14, a copy of which is with TOI, the governor said: “The academic year of the college will be over in June. The shifting process will disrupt the present academic year as well as the examination process. I therefore, do not agree to the shifting of the campus as proposed.”
 
 He suggested Dr Ravindranath submit a report “on completion of the building and other facilities required for smooth functioning of the university after the academic year is over.”
 
 TOI had reported about the problems related to relocation of the campus to the Ramanagara DC’s office and 100 colleges moving the high court opposing the decision. The court, earlier this week, asked the government to sort out the issues raised by the petitioners.
 
 ‘Govt to go ahead’
 
 Undeterred by the court’s directions and the governor’s letter — which has been shared with the medical education minister and the principal secretary — the government is going ahead with the inauguration on March 19, sources said. The ministers met the governor to get his nod, they added. 
 
 “About 15 invitations have been printed, and as of now the government seems to be going ahead with the move,” a source familiar with the developments said. Members of the RGUHS syndicate are unhappy that the VC kept them in the dark about the governor’s letter, informing only those in the government.
 
