There is always this first time that may make you a tad too nervous. And when it comes to talking and doing   for the very first time, the jitters are palpable.
 
  What if both of you are first timers and wanna make that first move. After all, losing your   is such a special moment that instead of letting the first time jitters overwhelm you, both of you should try to make it happen and in a way that both you folks will remember forever. Here’s how you can have a rocking sex in your first encounter:
  
  
 Well, this makes absolute sense and going overboard may just make you a tad more nervous. Take a deep breath; make it look easy for your partner. Don’t be on a hyperactive mode which will either make your partner nervous or take the charm of the union away by making either of you a bit intimidated by the idea.
  
  
 Do not rush each other into the act. Hurrying things doesn’t really pay when it comes to enjoying each other’s physical company. So, make moves to keep the atmosphere as pleasant as possible. Star with a warm hug and a gentle peck or a kiss instead of thinking   first.
  
  
 Observe how your partner reacts to your touch and moves. Ask what your partner likes to do and inform what you like the most. Communicate without hesitating, but respect each other’s opinion on type of positions and comfort levels.
  
  
 Since this is the first time, it is always better not to expect that bang bang stuff. You are just getting inducted, so be patient and enjoy every moment of it rather pondering over “it is not happening according to what that book said”. So, relax and find your own way to satisfaction.
  
  
 Foreplay is important. So, make sure you guys know each other’s comfort level and which type of touch excites your partner and where. Once this level is reached, you can graduate to the climactic level. But do it carefully. Because most of the times, first timers have so many preconceived notions that it takes a while to understand each other’s choices and limits.
  
  
 Romantic encounters are alright. But giving protection to each other is of foremost importance. Protecting your partner will take the level to another level of trust. 
