CHENNAI: For close to three decades, central and northern India have had super-luxury trains like Palace on Wheels (Rajasthan) and Deccan Odyssey (Maharashtra). These trains offer the prover bial `royal' treatment with facilities akin to those in a five-star hotel even as their cocooned carriages chug through the dusty and sun-baked countryside all the while.

 For the first time, the tourist arm of the Indian Rail ways, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), will bring its Mahrajas' Express to southern India with   and Mamallapuram in   as part of its `Southern Jewels' package. The train has lavishly decorated rooms and a presidential suite.“IRCTC has spent several crores to furnish the interiors like high-end hotels. There are two restaurants on board,“ a senior official said adding that   has been getting several inquiries for organising weddings and engagements on the train.
 
 The train can host 88 people and an eight-day, seven-night trip could cost `3.77 lakh for the deluxe cabin and `17.33 lakh for the presi dential suite. Named `Southern Jewels', the tour starts in Trivandrum on July 1 and the train will stop in Karaikudi, Mamallapuram, Hampi and Goa before terminating in Mumbai. The price is inclusive of all meals, sightseeing, complimentary liquor and excursions. Also, passengers will be able to opt for part of the journey by paying a fixed price of `33,250 per day per person.
 
 “This tour package targets the high-end clientèle, especially those looking for a different kind of experience within India,“ said a senior IRCTC official.
 
 IRCTC is also trying to attract the corporate sector with this luxury train as its spacious suites can be used for holding special board meetings. This is being termed meetings incentives, conferences and exhibition (MICE) tourism in the industry. “There would facilities like internet and LCD screens which can be used to facilitate meetings,“ the official said.
 
 Packaged with visits to the temple towns of India, the train has attracted reservation by tourists from Australia and Canada, said G Viswanathan, CEO of Footprint Holidays. “Corporates will be interested in the single day (break journey) offer it is positioned well.Short itineraries would work well with the rich and young if the pricing is right,“ he said.
 
