GURUGRAM: A   on a crater-free road is all residents of Sushant Lok-1 want for themselves this festive season.

 And thus, instead of spending on clothes, jewellery, home decor or any other expensive item, they are putting their money into something which, they believe, would be the best Diwali gift for the people of this area.
 
 After their repeated pleas to various departments concerned fell on deaf ears, the local residents, under the banner of Residents United, have taken up the task to repair roads in the area on their own at an estimated cost of Rs 25 lakh.
 
 Over 500 residents, living in different blocks of Sushant Lok-1, have voluntarily donated a total of Rs 8 lakh so far with more and more people coming forward with their contribution.
 
 Under the initiative, the residents plan to mend three prominent roads — the one that connects with the main road near  , the stretch that has its entry near Paras hospital, and another one near   — all in the C block.
 
 “We do not want to spend another Diwali with broken roads, which become a source of dust pollution during this time of the year. Pollution levels are already high in the city and dusty roads only add to our woes,” said  , a member of the residents’ organisation, Residents United.
 
 “Talking to MCG or the developer is like banging head against the wall. So we thought it was high time we took charge of the situation and started road repairs on our own. Though initially it appeared to be an impossible task, the residents have joined hands to make it happen,” said Sumit Bhatia, another resident.
 
 “Many residents said they would give money once the work starts. And contributions have actually increased after the repair work started two days ago. We hope to collect at least Rs 15 lakh for the project,” he added.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the residents had been requesting MCG to take up road repairs in the society while continuing with the process for takeover of civic amenities in the area.
 
 However, MCG officials maintained that they could not take up construction or maintenance of the roads in the area unless the takeover process was complete. 
 
 In fact, the corporation claimed that the responsibility of road repairs rested with the developer, Ansals.
 
 “We cannot take up the road repair work in the area unless it is handed over to the corporation. As of now, the responsibility remains with the developer,” said an MCG official.
 
 But according to the residents, the state government, through DTCP, can force the developer to act and maintain the civic amenities in the area.
 
 “But, incompetence of various government departments, which are supposed to monitor developers, and complete apathy of the political class have left us with no alternative but to fend for ourselves,” said Mahesh Joshi, another resident.
 
 Rakesh Goyal, senior vice-president, Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Ltd, claimed that the RWA had been maintaining the services in the colony and collecting money from the residents for the same for the past six years or so. 
 
 “So if the roads haven’t been repaired in the past six years, the RWA is to be blamed for it and not the developer. All maintenance staff report to the RWA and all collections are done by RWA members,” he added.
 
