PUNE: With as many as 383 crorepati candidates (around 35% of total candidatures) in the fray for the upcoming  , the battle of ballot here has gotten swankier.

 As per the declarations made by the candidates in their respective affidavits, against a total of 1,090 contenders, 383 have assets varying between Rs 1 crore and Rs 157 crore. Of these, three have declared assets of over Rs 100 crore each while another 16 have assets ranging between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 core.
 
 Interestingly, many former mayors, deputy mayors, standing committee chairpersons, corporators and opposition leaders feature in the list of the wealthy candidates. “All these posts are known to be vital in the municipal corporation and people occupying these have a key role in allocation of funds and sanctioning of projects,” political observers said.
 
 The statistics stated that many candidates from city’s fringe areas like Baner, Balewadi, Aundh, Hadapsar, Ahmednagar Road, Warje and Bavdhan have declared their assets in crores too. This is probably because all these areas have witnessed a significant growth in real estate sector in the recent times. There has been a lot of appreciation in prices of land, commercial and residential properties here, they added.
 
 Interestingly, the wealth has not remained confined only to male candidates. In fact, among top three rich contestant   candidate Rekha Tingre occupies the second spot after BJP’s  .
 
 The election to the   has been scheduled on February 21 and will witness 1,090 candidates contesting in 41 panels. The new general body will have 162 corporators. Every candidate is expected to declare details of his family’s assets along with the nomination form. The candidates have declared movable assets in the form of bank account balance, fixed deposits, investments in shares and debentures, investments in insurance schemes and gems and jewellery. The immovable assets declared by the contestants include ownership of agriculture and non agriculture land, residential properties, commercial establishments, shops and flats. 
 
 Meanwhile, political parties have said wealth of contestants was never a criteria or benchmark to fix candidatures. “Tickets have been given based on each candidate’s capability,” they added.
 
 “It is a fact that some have declared assets in crores of rupees. Their sources of income are in the public domain. However, for our party wealth and sources of income never mattered. We have given more consideration to candidates’ social thoughts, winning capability and if they can take ahead the party’s agenda for the city,” a senior leader of a political party told TOI.
 
 The political observers said the local politics has witnessed significant change over the years. “It seems that the candidates now require more time and money to reach out to their voters. Campaigning has become more aggressive. This could probably be the reason for the rising crorepati candidates in the fray since they have enough resources to spend for campaigning,” they added. 
 
 Sources in political parties said “managing an election event” is tough. “Candidates spend a lot of money during elections. It begins from pre-poll works, securing of a ticket and then for actual campaigning,” they said.
 
