The dilemma faced by the third gender — whether to tick ‘Male’ or ‘Female’ on their forms while enrolling for a degree course — is now a thing of the past. The University of   (MU) has just taken on board its first  , Sridevi. A Bharatnatyam dancer, interior designer and make-up artist by profession,   (adopted name) is pursuing a BA (Psychology, Literature and Sociology) at the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL). While she has been a student at IDOL for the past one-and-a-half years, her decision to enroll herself as a transgender was revealed only recently. Vinod Malale, the Public Relation Officer of the institute, said, “The development comes three years after the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, directed universities and colleges to treat transgenders as third gender for the purpose of admission and various scholarship schemes and programmes.”

 MU had introduced a separate ‘transgender’ column, in addition to traditional ‘male’ and ‘female’ columns in 2015-16. It was the same year Sridevi registered at IDOL,” Malale said. He added, “There maybe other such students at MU, but Sridevi is the first to officially enroll as a transgender.”
 
 Sridevi, (  in the official records of the college) tells us how she has been brought up in the Devadasi tradition. She realised early in life that she was a woman trapped inside the body of a man. She was advised a sex change surgery by psychiatrists, but her parents did not support for that. She says, “After finishing school, I opted for high school. I had to resort to small freelancing jobs which would help me save money for a decent education. After doing odd jobs for a couple of years, I enrolled for a diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (DMLT), but couldn’t complete it because I was unable to pay the fees. Later, I completed a three-year interior designing course at a college. My family still feels that I should not talk much about my life with anyone.”
 
 Ask her how she feels about the university giving her transgender status and she says, “Had I ticked in the male box, the hall ticket guys would have asked me if I am the same person since I look like a woman! And at the end of the day, it is not about gender, it is about getting a decent education in life. So I don’t understand why the box is made now? They should have done it much earlier.”
 
 Sridevi is at peace with herself after coming in touch with the transgender community and her guru. She says, “One of the social workers motivated me to enroll for college education. People write about me and want to fight for my status, but nobody has offered a job that will empower me. People also want to make documentaries on me and they have, but what use is that to me? Nobody wants to give me a respectable job.”
 Presently, Sridevi runs a small jewellery shop along with trading in South Indian saris. She also works as a make-up artist in the evenings. 
 
  Ask her whether she would like to settle down in the near future and she says, “There is no time for love or companionship. Besides, I have not undergone a surgery yet, so which man would want to love me? My only wish is that an organisation comes forward and gives me a job. I am hoping that the university education that I have got, will help me move in that direction. I am not begging for money, I am asking for a job, what is wrong in that?” she adds.
 
