MUMBAI: A brief training on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) at a workplace came to the aid of a   man who managed to keep his 45-day-old son alive till they reached a hospital. The steel factory employee said he couldn't afford an ambulance to transport his son and had to hire a regular car without oxygen support. 

 Baby Priyom had been battling repeated bouts of fever since birth. As the family ran from one hospital to another for a diagnosis, a physician advised hospitalization in a local facility. The parents decided to shift him to Parel's BJ   after his condition began to worsen in a Bhayander hospital. 
 
 Gudu Chaudhary recalled how Priyom grappled for breath in the vehicle on the way from Bhayander to Wadia Hospital. "He was turning pale so I decided to take matters in my own hands. As the vehicle was not equipped with oxygen supply systems, I started rubbing his feet. I gave light compressions on his chest and blew air in his mouth. I followed the steps they had taught us in the factory at the workshop," he said.
 
 "Our company had organized a workshop. My senior told me this could help us save lives. I never imagined this skill would save my own son," said Chaudhary. He said he performed CPR while trying to maintain his calm. "Once I gave the CPR, his condition stabilized a bit," he said. 
 
 Once they reached Wadia, the doctors saw he had difficulty breathing and rushed him to the paediatric ICU. He was put on a ventilator immediately. What doctors initially thought to be signs of a chest infection turned out to be a massive tumour in the heart that was revealed by an echocardiography. 
 
 "The baby was admitted on June 3 in a critical condition. Multiple investigations revealed a rare giant myxoma or a giant tumour that was occupying half of the upper chamber of the left side of the heart. We conducted a complex six-hour-long heart surgery to remove the tumour," said Dr  , head of paediatric cardiac surgery at Wadia, adding that the child survived a tumour seen in one in a million case across the world.
 
 CEO Dr   said that the father's quick thinking aided to the child's survival. 
 
