PUNE: After several months of crashing prices due to demonetisation and over supply,   in the city are shooting up again because of supply shortages.

 Prices of vegetables have risen by 30% to 40% over the past few days, with cluster beans remaining the costliest among all. A few vegetables are selling at more than Rs 80 per kg in some areas.
 
 Vegetable supply in the local market, meanwhile, has dropped since March first week owing to summer setting in and shortage of water in vegetable producing regions in the state, said sources in   (APMC). 
 
 Retail prices of vegetables have gone up in tandem with wholesale prices, though the increase in latter has been less than the retail prices.
 
 A senior APMC official told TOI that the rise in wholesale prices of vegetables has been between 15% and 20% during the last few days. “However, the coming month may witness a further spike in prices as we expect supply to dip by 25% due to anticipated water shortage in vegetable growing regions in summer months,” he said.
 
 The official said that the wholesale prices of vegetables such as Okra, cluster beans and ivy gourd have risen by about 20% in the last few days, while prices of tomatoes have witnessed a 10% spike in the wholesale market. However, retail market sources quoted a much higher increase in prices of vegetables in comparison to the wholesale market. Okra, for instance, has witnessed an approximate increase in prices by over 30% to 50% in retail markets. The prices of the vegetable has even gone up to Rs 80 per kg in some areas. The increase in the prices of cluster beans in retail markets has been up to 30%, while that of ivy gourd has been by 30% to 50%.
 
 A senior APMC official told TOI that temperature variations in vegetable growing regions have affected production of leafy greens. “High temperature during the day, followed by chilly night temperature affects the growth and quality of leafy greens like fenugreek, coriander, spinach and even cluster beans. Extreme temperature tends to turn the leaves of these vegetables pale. In addition, the anticipated water shortage in summer months in various pockets of the state may further affect supply in the local market,” the official said.
 
 Vikram Singh, a vegetable vendor in Pashan, said, “Supply in the wholesale market has dipped over the past10 days, resulting in shortage.”
 
 Shiv Shankar, another vendor in Camp, said that retail prices of tomatoes, which till a few days back were around Rs 10 to Rs 12 per kg, have gone up to Rs 25 to Rs 30, while prices of leafy greens, too, have recorded a marginal rise.
 
 As on March 14, prices of Okra in the wholesale market ranged between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500 per quintal, while two weeks ago, the wholesale prices of this vegetable varied between Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000. Prices of cluster beans, meanwhile, have gone up from Rs 3500- Rs 5000 to Rs 4000-Rs 6000 in the wholesale market. Similar trends were observed in case of other vegetables like cauliflower, eggplant, peas, and pointed gourd, among others.
 
