SURI/HOWRAH: The newly infused religious narrative of Bengal politics once again played out on the streets on the occasion of   on Tuesday — five days after the sword-wielding boisterous   — with BJP and Trinamool attempting to outdo each other.

 In Suri, police lathicharged rallyists when they tried to break a cordon. In Howrah, state minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla posed with a devotee posing as Hanuman and his wooden mace blurring the lines further.
 
 The simmering week-long tension in Suri has been building up ever since police denied permission to the   — a stance reiterated again by the cops on Tuesday. After Union minister Kiren Rijiju criticised the Birbhum district administration for denying permission, the committee — as if on cue — applied for a fresh permission on Monday. This prompted a marathon meeting at the Suri police station. SP Birbhum, N Sudheer Kumar, even spoke to the organisers himself. The organisers assured they wouldn’t carry arms; the police remained unmoved. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, scheduled to lead the rally, changed plans at the last minute.
 
 Early morning, police dispersed people when they assembled at Barabagan. They then gathered at Kulera on the outskirts of Suri. By the time police reached there, the crowd swelled to over 2,000. Police didn’t stop them. No arms were found. An hour later, when the rally reached Bharat Sevashram Sangha, the footfall had touched six thousand. This didn’t pose trouble, but a smaller rally did. 
 
 A splinter group of rallyists chanting Jay Shri Ram forced their way into J L Banerjee Road near Suri bus stand. This road is home to a minority education institution. Police placed iron barricades around it but couldn’t stop the rallyists from scaling it. Police resorted to lathicharge. Later three persons were arrested. Ghosh alleged Bengal was slipping into a “Taliban-style anarchy”. 
 
 “We did not give them permission for any such rally in the area. Still, there was a rally. We did not initially object but had to intervene when they tried to enter the more sensitive areas with a mixed population,” Kumar said. State minister Firhad Hakim said: “People can’t be provoked by falsehoods. This isn’t Bengal’s culture.” Trinamool’s Birbhum satrap Anubrata Mondal said, “Police had no objection initially but asked the rallyists not to take the road where the institute is located. They did not listen. The rally was totally disorganised. I think what police have done is correct.”
 
 Near-similar scenes were played out on the streets, sans violence, closer home in Howrah. Shukla, the state minister, and Trinamool MLA Vaishali Dalmiya led two separate Hanuman Jayanti rallies from Bandhaghat and Bally crippling traffic in north Howrah. “Hanuman is an integral part of our culture. Politics has nothing to do with it. Neither can any party (read BJP) claim it to be their own,” Shukla said. 
 
 Kolkata, too, witnessed huge processions. However, office-goers were spared for the bigger rallies were staged early morning and later in the evening. 
 
 
