GREATER NOIDA:   has asked 200 developers with projects in its area to provide information about the project size, total units sold and unsold, phase-wise completion time,  ,   and the background of the builders.

 The  , in its attempt to redress the problems faced by thousands of homebuyers, has sought the details to be provided by the builders by May 8. The Noida Authority, meanwhile, is also drawing up a list of projects in Noida.
 
 There are 86 under-construction group   in Noida and 80 in   that are behind schedule. A major problem faced by homebuyers is the delay in possession of flats and failure of realtors to provide promised amenities.
 
 According to officials, the move will check deviations from promised construction plans by builders. “We have provided each builder with a proforma, which the builder will have to return with all the details in it,” a senior GNIDA official said.
 
 “Each builder will have to provide these details or face action. Seventy to 80 builders are facing a problem, where projects have not started construction. Of these, about seven are in a critical situation with huge outstanding dues while about 65 projects are in the process of obtaining completion certificates and getting registries done. Once we have the details about the projects, we will draw up a schedule of action to be taken,” he said. In a similar move, the Noida Authority is also drawing up a list of projects in Noida, which will be forwarded to Alok Sinha, principal secretary industries and Noida Authority chairman. According to officials, Sinha has directed the Noida Authority to compile a report of action taken and the strategy for resolution of problems in the various builder projects which are being reviewed every week.
 
 Sinha is likely to forward the list to CM Yogi Aditya Nath, who had earlier directed officials to monitor under-construction housing projects and to take action against builders who harass buyers. The CM’s order came following complaints of lack of action against builders who flout laws and harass investors and buyers.
 
 
