BHOPAL: A strange notice hangs outside office of Asish Pathak, special assistant to minister for health Rustom Singh. The notice says, "Please do not contact for transfers. By Order." The notice is pasted on the wall on premises of minister's official residence at B4,  . 

 Asked why such a notice has been pasted, cabinet minister Singh explained, "People first ask for jobs and claim they will work and prove themselves. Once they get the job, they come and ask for transfer to a suitable place, close to home. We are tired of explaining that there are no transfers now. That is why, it is better to put a notice as a preventive step."
 
 While Rustom Singh is troubled by state employees requests for transfers, another minister made news on Monday appearing with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on the dais at a students' leadership development programme when he should have been preparing for the upcoming budget session in Parliament.
 
 Minister for SC/ST welfare Gyan Singh was elected to the Lok Sabha from Shahdol constituency in a bypoll on November 22. Two months later, he still holds the ministerial portfolio while he has resigned as MLA of Bandhavgarh seat in the winter session of state assembly.
 
 Though the Constitution provides that he can remain minister for six months after being elected to Lok Sabha and without MLA status, yet most people who have the privilege of joining the Parliamentary big league do not hesitate giving resignation from ministerial berths. It is widely known that   fielded Gyan Singh against his wishes from Shahdol seat. And it seems apparent that he still does not want to quit his ministerial berth.
 
 Asked if it is not against ethics to continue as minister in the state government after getting elected to Lok Sabha, Gyan Singh told reporters, "I am continuing as minister with the permission of the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. I do not take the facilities and perks of a minister. I just continue to work in that capacity."
 
