New Delhi: Following the Delhi high court’s intervention, the east corporation has cracked down on illegal polluting units which released suspected carcinogenic substances in the groundwater.

 In an affidavit, the corporation has claimed it has sealed 43 such units and emptied 24 more after these were found to be operating without valid permissions.
 
 The corporation has also submitted that soon after the HC order last week; it had issued show cause notices directing polluting units to stop work within 24 hours. Since these units had no permission to use residential areas as industrial units engaged in colouring and dyeing activities, the corporation claimed that it has put a ban on all such activities involving harmful chemicals.
 
 In response to an HC direction, the corporation in its reply stated that it has started a survey of all colonies in its area where illegal washing/colouring/dyeing units are operating so that these can be shut down and owners prosecuted. The court has slated to take up the matter for hearing on Thursday, after it took suo moto cognizance on the last date of a TOI news report highlighting release of poisonous substances into groundwater from polluting industrial units in Mustafabad zone.
 
 Terming the report as an eye opener, a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Navin Chawla had demanded to know what steps are being taken to stop such contamination. 
 
 The report highlighted that untreated effluents are contaminating groundwater, which is the main source of drinking water in the area and is also linked to the high rate of cancer. “This is happening because nobody wants to get out of their offices and see what is happening in the areas under their jurisdiction,” the bench said
 
 HC had issued notices to the Central Ground Water Board, Delhi government, corporation, DJB and other authorities. Shocked to learn that the locality is known as ‘cancer colony’, the bench had directed the Delhi government to place a preliminary report before it on the impact on the health of the residents in and around Mustafabad. 
 
 
