   Recently, the office received a mail for an annual architecture award. The sponsoring company asked us to nominate buildings from a variety of design categories: hotels, housing, offices, industries, interiors, whatever. As long as every project was accompanied with a Rs 40,000 entry fee, the award was guaranteed. Nominations happen in the summer so that you can wear a suit to the winter award ceremony in Mumbai. If for some reason you don’t get this award, there are 12 TV channels that give similar annual awards, eight Indian design magazines, numerous interior journals, toilet, lighting and cement manufacturers.    Twenty-five years ago, awards were rare, and given for achievement assessed by a serious jury of peers. But in a culture of narcissism the badge of merit is both unnecessary and difficult to assess. How much easier to just give yourself the award you deserve. In sports, advertising, news media, design, engineering, politics, wherever you look, anyone of any public standing is being conferred a prize.    The change is the outcome of two simultaneous conditions: the rapid privatisation of urban life, and the consequent trivialisation of public culture. When the eroding belief in collective assessment and achievement is replaced by self-belief, you know times have changed. A journalist once wrote not just because he or she had something to say, but also the competence to express it; an artist similarly used drawing skills to construct ideas, and only then decided which amongst the works merited a public response. The decision to withhold, or expose ideas to public reaction was part of a culture that saw inherent value in sharing only select work.    Newspapers reported facts; opinions were reserved for the few whose long-term experience of those facts gave credibility to their voice. Rejected articles and manuscripts, unsold art, unrecognised films, unfunded projects, all spoke as much about the quality of material allowed into the public sphere, as about the importance of public space itself. The complicated and expensive nature of publishing, the value of an editor, all insured that only those who seriously practised the craft of writing, or those whose art would make a serious cultural contribution, would see the light of day — appearing in galleries, museums, theatres and bookshops. The mediocre rest would be rejected — made to disappear like Snapchat.    Part of the problem today lies in the democratisation of public space itself. Everyone is entitled to express themselves in any form or medium, and on any subject. And everyone does. In a single day there are 150 million exchanges on Snapchat, 1.15 billion opinions on Facebook, 500 million Twitter feeds, and a multitude of reactions on newspaper, TV and web pages. Certainly, social media platforms allow the world to be more connected, but much of the connection comprises only an unhealthy competition to be heard for a reason — for more followers, more likes, and other forms of self-adulation. With more selfies taken, every life event recorded, the self-obsession becomes desperation to gain approval from strangers. The petty personal nature of the exchanges aside, the sheer glut of useless factoids only degrades and diminishes the content of public space.    For its part, technology too has contributed to this instant culture. When the mediocre get recognition on public forums, it allows everyone to have their day in the spotlight. An accountant friend uses Photoshop techniques to make paintings and then sells them as signed prints; another penned a salacious novel, self-published, and critically reviewed and acclaimed by himself on the internet. “I am not a writer,” he claimed modestly, “it just came to me one night.” Both were good reasons for disqualification.    In a narcissistic culture mediocrity easily passes off as greatness. Private actions become a bid for immortality, small things misread as big ambitions. How do you explain reality TV, or a moneymaking businessman — with no accomplishment other than net worth — as public hero? How do you explain Donald Trump?    The ‘I-me-my’ world with its instant gratification has replaced the long-term value of a selective discriminating public space. People may be motivated to turn vegetarian or go to the gym, but they are less inclined to support cultural ideas and causes that their parents once did. Recent surveys indicate that a mistrust of public life and politics has kept them from participating in democratic processes, or contributing to social causes. Life is not a matter of ability, but a way to promote yourself, to become a brand. If that is true then you may need to rephrase the old environmental question. ‘Are we going to leave a better world for our children’ should read ‘are we going to leave better children to our world?’      