JAIPUR: The   ( ) has demanded changing the police officer investigating the alleged gang-rape of two scheduled caste (SC) teens, who committed suicide on April 5, at Neem Ka Thana of   district.

 The victims, both sisters and first-year undergraduate students at the government college, had flung themselves under a train after being allegedly gang-raped by upper caste men in Bhagega village.
 
 Initially, the local police were reluctant to investigate charges of sexual violence and only filed an FIR for suicide. But under pressure from the family and social activists, they included charges of gang-rape and named three accused on April 9.
 
 Activists, however, feel that this will not ensure a free and fair investigation. While the victims’ family belongs to Balai caste, which comes under SC category, all the three accused in the case are upper caste men. Despite being named in the FIR, the three have not been arrested so far.
 
 “The mother of victims works in fields belonging to Rajputs. The investigating officer, the deputy SP, is also a Rajput. We have appealed to change the officer investigating the case,” said Kavita Srivastava of PUCL.
 
 Speaking to Mukesh Nirwasit of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan (MKSS), who visited the family in Bhagega village, the victims’ 16-year-old brother said that his sisters were alone at home on April 5 when the accused gang-raped them.
 
 About the incident, the boy, who has just finished his Class 10 examinations and works as a labourer, said, “I reached home early that day. As I was approaching the house, I heard screams. When I entered, a man ran out. Two others were still inside. Two of them were from my village and one from Guhala nearby. Two were Rajputs and the third a Brahmin.”
 
 “My sisters’ clothes were torn. They committed suicide from shame,” he said.
 
 The boy, a witness in the case, said that he has two other siblings – an older sister, who is a student at the university, and a brother, who works as a labourer in Haryana. They were both away at the time of the incident.
 
 “The three men named in the FIR are Vicky, Bajrang and Kaana,” the older sister told TOI.
 
 MKSS activist Nirvasit said, “From the beat constable to top officer, the whole force is filled with Rajputs who are eager to protect members of their clan. Although the FIR names the accused, no arrests have been made. Imagine the condition of the family, seeing the accused men free. There is enormous social pressure on this poor family not to pursue this case.”
 
 “The young boy is too troubled to meet officials or accompany us when we meet policemen,” said Kavita of PUCL.
 
 But investigating officer and deputy SP of Neem Ka Thana, Kushal Singh, had a different take on the alleged gang-rape.
 
 “We have mobile phone call details to show that the girls had called the men home. It is likely that the unexpected arrival of the younger brother had embarrassed them and pushed them to take their own lives. We are yet to receive reports of vaginal swabs taken from the bodies after testing. If there are traces of semen, we will arrest the men,” Singh told TOI.
 
