HYDERABAD: Stating that the water rights of   are being violated by  , chief minister   on Friday assailed the   (KRMB) for what he called its silence on the issue. The KRMB was constituted post bifurcation by the centre to regulate the supply of Krishna water to the two Telugu states.

 Referring to water being supplied to   from Srisailam reservoir,   thundered at a media conference at Telangana Bhavan: "You (AP) cannot do dadagiri. I want an answer from KRMB chairman S K Srivastava on the water diversion to Pothireddypadu. How can they refuse water to Nagarjunsagar which has every right to receive it from Srisailam. In fact, Pothireddypadu is not eligible for water release before Nagarjunsagar gets it. As per the water award, water from Srisailam has to be released to Nagarjunsagar while what Pothireddypadu is entitled to is only surplus water. How can anybody justify diversion of water to a project which was built based on availability of surplus water while depriving the same to Nagarjunsagar which is based on assured water. The KRMB must answer to this."
 
 The CM said water not being released from Srisailam to Nagarjunsagar was a gross violation of the water rights of Telangana and said this was happeneing even after Srisailam received copious inflows. "Srisailam is primarily an electricity generation project. There is no justification in water being held there and being diverted to projects which did not figure in the original water allocation award."
 
 Meanwhile, the KRMB, which met representatives of both Telangana and AP here on Friday, failed to take any decision on the diversion of water. On the complaint of Telangana that water flow statistics were tampered by a private agency at the behest of AP government, the KRMB did not take any action. According to Telangana irrigation officials, instead, it asked the agency representatives not to resort to such tampering in the future. Finally, the KRMB decided to hold another meeting on October 4 or 5 to discuss with the ENCs of both the states over distribution of water for the current water year.
 
