BENGALURU: Family consultant Teena Paul nurses only one ambition — to help children battling dyslexia. She wants to start a venture which will enable kids to identify their true potential. In less than a month, she may get to live her dream. 

 The women startup programme at the NS Raghavan Centre for Entrepreneurial Learning (NSRCEL), Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB), in partnership with  , will soon wrap up its three-week boot camp for 50 aspiring women entrepreneurs. Of them, 12 will get a chance to incubate their ideas and will receive a monthly stipend of Rs 40,000 to start their ventures.
 
 In a first, the centre adopted a blended learning module for the programme, wherein participants had to undertake a Do Your Venture course through the Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) in stage one and attend a three-week residential boot camp at the incubation hub in stage two. The camp began on January 23 and will culminate on March 1 (there’s a two-week gap due to vacations).
 
 “Being part of a diverse group of 50 women with 50 different ideas was exciting,” Teena told TOI. “Guidance from highly acclaimed mentors and fireside chats with entrepreneurs and investors were invaluable,” she said.
 
 Chetana Jude Alex, an armyman’s wife and psychologist, hopes to make psychology a part of people’s daily life through a customized tool kit for adolescents and college students, who are going through a transitory stage. 
 
 “I fell in love with psychology the moment I read Carl Jung’s Man and His Symbols. I wanted to be in this field as I was introspective even as a child,” said Chetana, who wasn’t very surprised to learn she had been shortlisted for the programme. 
 
 NSRCEL received 1,700 applications from women for the five-week online Do Your Venture course. To the centre’s surprise, 300 applicants were chosen through the MOOC, of which 50 made it to the boot camp. In the first week, the participants learnt about becoming entrepreneurs. The second week was focused on ideating. When the women return for the camp’s last week, they will pitch their ideas before a panel.
 
 Using art to inspire is Anusha Stephen’s motto. She hopes to develop an art space to help enhance creativity and innovation. Anusha, senior manager (competency and assessments practice)  , said, “The course was well-structured and very interactive. The faculty and professors were top-notch. We had several networking sessions with entrepreneurs and mentors.”
 
 Speaking on their commitment to providing opportunities to women entrepreneurs in India,  , chairman and co-head of Goldman Sachs, India, said: “In addition to financial support, we are investing our most valuable resources, our people, their expertise and time. NSRCEL has a proven track record of training women entrepreneurs. We seek to identify like-minded partners among leading educational institutions in the world.” 
 
 
 
 
 Srividya, an IT professional, wants to give shape to a venture which ensures the social well-being of the elderly. “The biggest takeaway for me from the programme is the surge in my confidence levels: ‘Yes! I too can do it’. As women, we are often plagued by doubts, but this course enabled me to stop being apprehensive.”
 
 
 
 We wanted to cater to two groups of women: those who had no ideas but only entrepreneurial intent and those who had ideas but needed a start...There is a general perception that free courses are often taken for-granted. But fortunately, the urge to learn is very high among these women. We have seem them putting in tremendous effort
 
 Suresh Bhagavatula, chairperson, entrepreneurial ecosystem development, NSRCEL 
 
 
 
 
 Investments in women throughout the world are resulting in multiple benefits — stronger economies, healthier and better-educated children and prosperous communities. Economic growth resulting from women’s education feeds a virtuous cycle, supporting continued investments in education and extending the gains to human capital. Data from our 10,000 Women programme demonstrates that 90% of graduates have ‘paid it forward’ by mentoring other women in their communities
 
 Sonjoy Chatterjee, chairman and co-head, Goldman Sachs, India
 
 
