KOCHI: The   has received a whopping 900   from   and   within nine days of   coming into force. 

 Tax officials said that around 70% of the complaints are from Ernakulam district, which is the commercial capital of Kerala. 
 
 They also said that they have been receiving hundreds of complaints every day regarding lack of clarity in tax issues.
 
 Most of the complaints are related to traders, who find it difficult to open the website of GST.
 
 "We receive most of the complaints from Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts where more number of people run businesses. Though there are GST cells in each district, traders directly approach state cell raising various doubts on GST. It will take some time to clear the doubts of traders," said an official of state GST cell in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 "Many traders complain that it takes time to open the GST website," he added.
 
 "The issue might be during the traders migrating to GST from the value-added tax (VAT) registration. Since it is a centralized portal, the officials sitting in New Delhi only can solve the problem. We have intimated the issue with them," said commercial tax deputy commissioner Basu Narayan Karthik in Ernakulam. 
 
 Corroborating the confusion existing in the industry, the facilitation centre functioning in Mattanacherry said that it has not received any Form 8 FA document, which is a declaration of goods brought through coastal cargo, railways or airports.
 
 "We used to receive around 400 8 FA declarations per month at this centre. Most of the traders used to import granites and tiles through coastal cargo in Kochi. But we have not even received a single 8 FA declaration this month after the GST implementation. The imports have also come down drastically and the traders transport it without filing 8 FA declarations due to confusion," said an official in Mattancherry facilitation centre.
 
 "Our main concern is that how can we clear our stocks and reduce our financial loss. We bought the products before the GST implementation. If we are going to sell products under GST tax limit, we will have to suffer huge loss. When we approach tax officials, they could not give us a proper clarification, since they are ignorant of GST. The government should give time to traders to come to terms with GST. There is utter confusion amongst traders over the new tax reform. The government officials claim that they can solve the problem within three months," said PAM Ebrahim, Ernakulam district president of Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi.
 
 
