GUWAHATI: The five-day Namami   festival, touted to harness the potential of the fourth largest river in the world, ended with the signing of a tripartite agreement between the Assam government,   (IWAI) and   (NHAI) here on Tuesday. 

 The agreement, signed in the presence of Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping  , chief minister  , state industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, senior officials and legislators. Chief minister of manipur N Biren Singh was also present at the function.
 
 Gadkari said under the agreement, the Brahmaputra will be dredged to make the river navigable. The Union minister said the sands that will be excavated through dredging will be used for construction of highways on both sides of the Brahmaputra. 
 
 About 841 km of the Brahmaputra will be dredged and the sands will be used to construct a 1300-km highway. The 891-km stretch of the Brahmaputra from Sadiya in eastern part of the state to Dhubri on the western part has already been declared as National Waterway (NW) 2.
 
 "The Brahmaputra holds the key to state's economic development. By making the river navigable, it will significantly bring the road transportation cost used for bringing commodities from outside the state. The river can also open up vistas of tourism, helping the state's economy. We have already started various   work on the river, including port terminals," Gadkari said.
 
 Prior to the function, Gadkari reviewed the progress of infrastructure work in the state. It was decided during the review meeting that the Centre has also completed formalities with Bangladesh to allow it to dredge the portion of the Brahmaputra up to Chittagong
 
 Gadkari said once the project materializes, the NW2 will have direct access to Chittagong port of Bangladesh, Haldia port of West Bengal and will consequently boost trade with Southeast Asian countries.
 
 Gadkari said the existing Guwahati bypass from Khanapara to Jalukbari will be converted into a six-lane highway. 
 
 Sonowal said he is grateful to the people of the state for making the festival a success. "Different communities and people of diverse religious groups took part in the festival. This festival has given us the strength to make Assam a vibrant state," he added. 
 
 Biren Singh said that Assam has the responsibility to lead other NE states. "As we all know illegal migration is a big problem in Assam. We have to support Assam's cause to tackle influx. The impact on other states of the region will be very serious otherwise," added Singh. 
 
