GUWAHATI: Anti-dam organizations are up in arms in Assam in protest against Union power minister  's move to complete the 2000-MW Lower Subansiri Hydroelectric Power (LSHP) Project, risking the lives and property of people living in the downstream areas . 

 Leading organizations of the state like Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), All Assam Students'Union (Aasu) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) on Tuesday renewed the movement against the construction of mega dams in the northeast after the Union minister hinted at expediting the remaining work on the dam during his speech in Parliament. 
 
 Construction at the dam site in Gerukamukh along the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border came to a halt in 2011 after protests erupted across the state.
 
 "Soon after BJP came to power in both the Centre and the state, we were suspecting that the saffron party will go ahead with its plan to complete the Lower Subansiri project. Now, it has become crystal clear that BJP will put in all efforts to complete the project. KMSS warns the Centre and the BJP-led government in Assam of facing a mass resistance if they go ahead with the construction at at the present site. Experts have serious concerns on the flaws in the design of the dam," said KMSS adviser   while talking to the media. 
 
 Burning Goyal's effigy at Gerukamukh in Dhemaji district on Tuesday, Aasu activists vowed to thwart any plans to complete the dam unless experts come to a scientific conclusion on the dam's safety standards. Aasu general secretary   said, "It is utter betrayal of the people of Assam who voted for BJP in the last   and state assembly polls. During talks held between the Centre and anti-dam groups under Goyal's leadership, it was decided that dam work can resume only when experts opposing the Lower Subansiri dam design come to a scientific conclusion after holding discussions on various technical aspects. But today, the Union power minister is speaking like an autocrat, showing no respect to experts from Assam who have found serious flaws in the dam design." 
 
 The mega dam turned into a prime political issue during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections with BJP, AGP and several other youth and student organizations opposing construction of the mega dam. 
 
 
