 prices shooting upto over Rs. 100 per kg has given a fright to the common man. City’s   vendors and several eating joints have reduced its usage in chhole chaat, bhelpuri,  ,   and stuffed tawa cheela among other delights. We speak to vendors and customers who share their dissatisfaction over the surge in prices.

  Anup, who runs a chhole and matar chaat stall in DD Puram, says, "After the hiked prices, we have started keeping only two or three tomatoes in stock, varna har customer demand karta hai. We are known for matar and chhole ki chaat, garnished with chopped tomatoes and dhaniya, but the hike in price of both the vegetables has forced us from not using them for garnishing."
 
  
  No tomatoes in street food annoys Bareillywallahs (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
  He further adds, "Agar koi customer bahut insist karta hai toh thode extra paise mein hum usko chaat garnish kar ke de dete hain." Arif, a street food vendor who sells bhelpuri, Moradabadi daal and tikki-chaat in Rajendra Nagar, says, "  and Moradabadi daal taste good with diced tomatoes but with soaring prices, we have simply reduced its usage. Bhelpuri mein sirf naam ke liye aur dikhaane ke liye daalte hain. In fact, we have started adding more cucumber to it. Moradabadi daal mein bhi hum upar se tomato aur dry papadi daalte the lekin ab tomato toh band hi kar diya."
  
  For Bareillywallahs bhel doesn't taste good without tomatoes (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
  Vickey, a street food vendor in Civil Lines, says, "As the rate of tomatoes have shot through the roof, I hardly buy and use it in any of our preparations. Tomatoes can’t be stored for long, isliye main teen-chaar din mein bas ek ya do tamatar hi khareed raha hoon. This has certainly affected our business. Earlier people used to have four to five patte of matar chaat and bhelpuri in one go, but now they ask for only one or two. Ab hum bhi kya karein, majboor hain!"
 
  ‘
 
 
  Priya, a resident of Civil Lines, says, "I recently had matar chaat and stuffed tawa cheela a few days ago and they tasted so bland and incomplete without tomatoes. Upar se dhaniye ki chutney bhi theek se nahi dete, as dhaniya is also quite expensive. Lagta hai ab ghar se ek tomato lekar jaana padega and will have to ask the vendor to add it to my serving (laughs)."
 
  Ashi, a resident of Janakpuri, says, "I love eating paneer tikka and pav bhaji at one of the joints in Civil Lines, but both these dishes tasted so bland when I had these dishes recently without a generous use of tomato."
 
  
  
  
 
