HYDERABAD: A day after it came to light that 12 children were allegedly given expired injections, an external probe committee visited   to review the ground situation and unearth the source of the drugs. 

 For their part, hospital authorities on Monday admitted that the vials in possession of parents bore the stamp '  government supply'. This, even though they maintain that the drugs had been brought from outside and that there was some 'malicious intent' that led to the entire episode that jeopardised the children's health.
 
 Parents of the affected children on Monday were still carrying around samples of vials of Avil (Pheniramine maleate) and   injections that clearly show '2016' expiry date. While lack of oversight has been apparent, the most recent check by the drug inspector from   was conducted in January. 
 
 One of the two injections allegedly administered to the kids, Avil, was procured on an emergency basis in January by the hospital authorities after it ran out of supply. According to hospital authorities the Avil injections that were 'not procured from the regular source' had an expiry date of 2018 so it wasn't possible that any expired Avil injections were present on hospital premises. 
 
 Authorities maintained that multiple checks were being conducted at various levels, right from store superintendent, medical store in-charge to nurses. They expressed disbelief over the possibility that the vials were from within the hospital. The hospital superintendent said that two rounds of internal inquiry had been conducted with a crossing-checking of all drug stores, drug watch registers and individual wards. "There is not a single drug in the hospital which is beyond the expiry date. The nurses have been maintaining supplies with proper names, manufacture date and date of expiry. It is baffling how the vials of expired medicines landed in the hospital," he said.
 
 According to experts, the injections bearing the state government seal are not available in the open market and hence impossible to have been bought from outside. 
 
 On Monday, an external probe was underway and was being carried out by a two-member probe committee, with a doctor from   and from  . They quizzed authorities, hospital staff as well as parents of the victims. "The probe committee will submit the report in two days," said director of medical education M Ramani. Hospital authorities did not lodge a police complaint on Monday and chose to wait till the inquiry report has been submitted. 
 
 
