THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed officials concerned to complete construction of   by 2019 and coastal   by 2020. A meeting convened by the CM reviewed progress of both the  . Public works department (PWD) minister G Sudhakaran and fisheries minister J Mercykutty attended the meeting.

 The 1,251-km hill highway will be constructed from Nandarappadavu in Kasaragod to Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram. The government has given permission to allot Rs 3,500 crore required for the project from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB).
 
 The hill highway will pass through all districts, except Alappuzha. In the first phase, construction will begin in 25 stretches in 13 districts. PWD special secretary Biju Prabhakar informed the meeting that the work could be completed in two years. Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) has been assigned with the work.
 
 The coastal highway, which will cover 623 km, will be constructed from Manjeswaram to Poovar. The highway will pass through Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts. The   will have connectivity to major ports such as Vallarpadam, Vizhinjam and Kollam and also to smaller ports. 
 
 The cost of coastal highway, which is around Rs 6,500 crore, too will be met from KIIFB. The road will have a varying width of 5.5-7m depending on the density of population in the area. The aim of coastal highway is to reduce traffic congestion on the national highway, connecting major fishing harbours and fishing areas. The CM directed officials to speed up land acquisition works for the project. National highways chief engineer P Prabhakaran, roads and bridges chief engineer Jeevaraj, KRFB project director V V Binu, among others, attended the meeting.
 
 In another meeting, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has informed the CM that tender proceedings of railway overbridge at Pallikkara in Kasaragod would start soon. 
 
 The CM has asked action council led by P Karunakaran, MP, to stop agitation demanding ROB at Pallikkara.
 
 
