PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: For the first time in Pimpri Chinchwad’s history, a   corporator was  . Nitin Appa Kalje, a 42-year-old farmer from the fringe village of Charholi, was on Tuesday elected unopposed by the 128-member   Municipal Corporation. 

 Kalje said his priority would be the revival of Saarthi, a portal for citizen-centric grievances. The mayor also promised to focus on improving public transport, river development, and the revival of the Pavana pipeline project after taking the farmers in Maval taluka into confidence. He further said efforts will be made to provide basic civic amenities to the residents of newly-merged villages, which have been neglected for 20 years. 
 
 “We will ensure the development of the old city areas, along with the newly-merged villages which have been deprived of development for the past 20 years,” Kalje told reporters. “There are no basic amenities like schools, hospitals and gardens in these villages, but we will provide these amenities as per the development plan,” he added.
 
 BJP’s Shailaja More was elected, also unopposed, as the deputy mayor.
 
 In the February 21 election, the BJP had bulldozed its way to victory by winning 77 seats. This had displaced the NCP, which had been in power for two terms, and which managed to win only 36 seats this time around.
 
 Kalje said that Saarthi (an acronym for System of Assisting Residents and Tourists through  ) was discontinued by NCP two-and-a-half years ago. 
 
 Observing that over 4 lakh people had benefited from the portal when it was launched on August 15, 2013, Kalje said that he will soon revive the system, but refrained from setting a time frame. 
 
 The new mayor also said the municipal corporation will function in a transparent, corruption-free manner. 
 
 In March 2008, the   had started work on the Pavana dam-Nigdi water pipeline project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). However, work was interrupted when three farmers were killed in Maval taluka on August 9, 2011. “Efforts will be made to revive the project,” Kalje assured. 
 
 In the run-up to the elections, BJP had alleged irregularities in development works during NCP’s two terms. “Inquiries are in progress, and action will be taken against those found guilty of wrongdoing,” he said.
 
