CHANDIGARH: Caught between heritage and expansion, free   has almost run out of space. Its Swiss French architect,  , had foreseen the problem and come up with an idea to preserve orderly living.

 In a letter to the Punjab government on May 4, 1957, he had spoken about the   to accommodate growing population without changing the city's character and quality of life. He had also made two sketches giving the basic approach to re-densification.
 
 The lone attempt at it, so far, was in case of the government houses, through re-introduction of the Apartment Act in the draft Master Plan 2031.A board of inquiry shot down both proposals on the grounds that these will damage the city's heritage and low-rise character. Former   said: “The administration has relaxed its rules too much already for accommodating more people in the single-owned houses of Phase I.“
 
 
 
 The shortage of housing stock in Chandigarh has made its property least affordable in the Tricity, which includes Panchkula and Mohali. The Apartment Act allows the bifurcation of the big plots, which interests the owners of many kanal houses in Sectors 1 to 15. “If the Act returns, it will help more people buy a house in Chandigarh,“ property consultant Shailendra Anand said. “It will regularise the current illegal, floorwise selling of these houses.“
 
  said the administration ought to be less rigid. “Things have changed a lot in 50 years. It's time the administration also changed for the welfare of the people.“
 
 
 
 The first phase has a low population density but plots ranging from 5-to-8 kanal (About 60% of an international football field, for a family size of perhaps two). The 2001 Census counted 26 people living over an average acre in the Phase-I sec tors compared with 60 in Phase II.
 
 The shortage of space has restricted plot development. Even the sectors in Phases I and II have height restrictions to maintain their lowrise character.
 
 Institute of Development and Communication (IDC) director Pramod Kumar says that if any zone needs re-densification, it's Phase I, as the other two are overpopulated already.
 
