GURUGRAM: Changes in traffic flow have prompted  's town and country planning department (DTCP) to examine alterations that hotels and hangout spots like   have made to circumvent the Supreme Court-ordered ban on serving of alcohol within 500 metres of a state or national highway. 

 The DTCP claimed to have received complaints from local residents about traffic inconvenience as a result of the changes, and asked its enforcement wing to look into them. Senior officials said layout plans of commercial projects are approved keeping traffic flow in mind and those can't be tampered with without permission.
 
 Cyber Hub and Ambience mall are among establishments that have tweaked approach routes to increase motorable distance from the highway beyond 500 metres. Residents of Ambience Lagoon, the housing society next to the mall, had complained about the change.
 
 "The enforcement wing has been asked to probe allegations levelled against some hotels and restaurants, following media reports and complaints from residents. Entry and exit points of any building are part of the approved layout, and any change in the plan is a violation of rules, which will not be allowed," said a senior DTCP official.
 
 The official said entry and exit points in a building plan of a commercial establishment are approved after careful consideration of traffic movement and other related factors. "So, one cannot change an entry point or make a diversion on the approach road as it may have adverse effects on movement of vehicles," the official said. 
 
 Cyber Hub blocked both its exit gates opening on the service road of   expressway by constructing a wall on Thursday. 
 
 Earlier, Ambience mall, which houses The  , had blocked off its original entry point and instead created a U-turn on its approach road, sending visitors from the highway on a detour before bringing them back to the main entrance.
 
 A spokesperson for Ambience denied any violation of rules. "No change has been made against rules. We are developing a 125-acre township and everything is done as per the approved plan," he claimed.
 
