MUMBAI: While the   ( ) and the Indian Cricket Board are locked in a standoff over policy matters that include finance and governance, there are curious developments happening elsewhere. A section of stakeholders say, those curious developments have got to do with India's loss being somebody else's gain.

 Sources in the know of things told TOI on Wednesday that the ICC is working towards "resolving the financial struggles being faced by   (ZC)".
 
 The timing of this 'help', as the parent body looks to reduce India's revenue in order to restore parity among all members, is being seen as a "well-timed" effort on part of the ICC.
 
 The fact that   Cricket had abstained from voting in favour of or against the   in the February board meeting of the ICC but chose to vote in favour of the reforms in the April meeting is being seen as a result of ICC "offering financial help" to the struggling board.
 
 Unwilling to come on record and not wanting to antagonise either the ICC or the BCCI in the present circumstances, a senior executive well-versed with the functioning of the ICC, confirmed ICC's 'help' and said: "Zimbabwe Cricket has been requesting ICC for assistance in dealing with its financial issues now for the past four years and in fact, in 2013, you may be aware that a package was put together to assist the ZC to get out of its debt situation.
 
 "So this is basically a continuation of that initiative. The request has been resurrected now. ZC is in discussions with the ICC to help them with their financial issues. I wouldn't say ICC has offered to wipe out Zimbabwe Cricket's debts. That's totally incorrect. But a package was put together to assist Zimbabwe cricket. This is a continuation of that package." Riddled with massive debts owing to enormous financial irregularities, and with some of ZC's former office bearers being accused of corruption, the member board was close to being relegated as full member of the ICC. "That may not happen for now. In February, it was unclear and therefore Zimbabwe abstained from participating in the vote," the source said.
 
 It is likely that the matter may not have been brought to the attention of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) that met with member boards of the ICC last month.
 
 "This doling out of favours could be a clear move to keep Zimbabwe with the majority and secure their vote, but who can say that with absolute clarity. It's only what's obvious that's pointing things to a certain direction," a senior cricket administrator said.
 
 It is here that BCCI has a grouse with the COA. "And they want to take India's share and distribute it to countries (like Zimbabwe) for the game to prosper, clearly not knowing what is happening behind their backs," a senior BCCI functionary said.
 
