Many Africans call Ahmedabad their home as they are pursuing higher studies here. The culture and lifestyle of Ahmedabad keeps them rooted here as these students feel that, the business minded Gujarartis can teach them a lot. Africans in the city also feel that, while Indians are doing business in their country, African businessmen in India are almost nonexistent. Thus, for   to grow, more Africans need to be trained in India to business and entrepreneurship skills.
 
  Speaking about the partnership between India and Africa, a Zimbabwean who is a third year BA Psychology student from  , expressed her views under anonymity and said, “Africa is definitely lagging behind in the terms of development. There are many Indians doing business in Africa but there are hardly any Africans doing business in India. It’s time for us to learn business from Indians.
  
  Their entrepreneurship traits are what we seek. Hopefully, this partnership will help us gain that.”   from  , is a third year BBA student. According to her, “Perception towards Africans is changing slowly. A partnership between India and Africa will help us learn, understand and respect each other.” When comparing India and China, she said, “It’s tough to make a choice. India values its culture, people and heritage. It cares for its people. However, I have never been to China.
  
  Okello Kenneth from Uganda who is also a second year student of Masters in Electronics and Communication at   said, “China offers practical knowledge which India certainly lacks. I think Africa must learn how India encourages women’s empowerment. India manufactures its own goods while Africa imports it. Hence, partnership will help in a big way.”  , a Ugandan and a first year BCom student said, “Ahmedabad is an awesome city and I feel very safe here. Future partnership will open businesses and employment opportunities in both parts of the world.
  
  As far as choosing between India and China goes, I will prefer both as I would love to learn different cultures and people. Auguster Mselewa from Tanzania studies in SD College of Commerce. She said, "The partnership between India and Africa will help both countries in different sectors. For Tanzania this is great for the tourism sector, as more foreign currency will come in due to higher number of tourists from India. I have observed that except from Gujarat, there are not many foreign investors from Africa. But I think things will definitely improve in terms of invesntment in future."
