KOCHI: Why is the state government not taking any action in the matter of senior IPS officer Tomin J Thachankary holding the post of ADGP (headquarters) despite repeated criticism, the high court asked on Thursday.

 Asking why a director hasn’t been appointed yet for vigilance and   (VACB), a single bench of the court said a single person holding the charge of law-and-order and vigilance at the same time may not be proper as it may lead to delegation of work to the next senior officer at times. State police chief Loknath Behera is holding the charge of   at present.
 
 The queries regarding lack of action on allegations against Thachankary and propriety of holding dual responsibilities by the state police chief were made to the state government by the court while hearing a case questioning the legality of an appointment made by Thachankary while he was the transport commissioner.
 
 A petition filed by Sreehari S, who is an assistant motor vehicle inspector (AMVI) at Thrissur, is being considered by the court. While Sreehari was a ministerial employee at the transport department, he was appointed as an AMVI in October 2015 on the basis of a BTech degree certificate allegedly issued by Sridhar University at Pilani in Rajasthan. The appointment of an unqualified candidate was made by Thachankary after accepting illegal gratification, a complaint filed before Thiruvananthapuram vigilance court had alleged. The complaint was forwarded by the vigilance court to VACB for conducting a quick verification. The vigilance court’s directive is being challenged by Sreehari in the petition filed before the high court.
 
 After considering the petition, the high court had earlier allowed VACB to continue with the quick verification and had ordered that a senior police officer should conduct the probe as the allegation is against a senior police official. The court had also asked VACB to submit the report of the quick verification before it. Noticing that the report hasn’t been submitted yet, the court directed on Thursday that the report approved by the VACB director should be filed within 10 days.
 
