To spend those few extra minutes while seeing off their partners before they board a plane, many   to unfair means to enter the  . Some enter on a canceled ticket, others change the date on an old ticket, and it is mostly men who come to drop their girlfriends, mothers or daughters who try to enter illegally. These elongated goodbyes and acts of chivalry have become quite the irritant for the   and the Delhi police at the airport, who are tired of registering cases against those who breach security for emotional purposes. The CISF officials say that recently, cases of passengers using fake tickets to enter the   premises to drop their relatives or friends have increased. 

  
 The Airport police arrested two passengers at the IGI airport last month for carrying a fake ticket. In one case, the accused told the police that he had come to drop his friend and had used a fake ticket to enter the premises. In the other case, while checking tickets, CISF officials found that the man had a fake ticket while his girlfriend had a valid one.
 
   , DCP Airport, says, "Anyone can enter the airport premises by showing a ID card and ticket. The CISF officials find out only at the departure gate and the police is informed if the ticket is not valid."
 
 In a recent incident, a 26-year-old Pune resident, identified as Ammar Mohsin Boxwala, presented a year-old ticket to fool the CISF personnel, and entered the departure lounge to see off his girlfriend. According to reports, his girlfriend had a ticket of SpiceJet to travel from Pune to Goa and he made a fake ticket of a Chennai-bound IndiGo flight. After his girlfriend made it through the security check, he moved to the departure lounge and requested the CISF personnel that he no longer wanted to fly to Chennai and wished to leave. This raised suspicion in the minds of the personnel, who later found out that the customer ID printed on his ticket was false. During interrogation,   admitted that he had manipulated an year-old ticket to see off his girlfriend. 
 
  
  Cases of passengers using fake tickets to enter the airport premises to see off their relatives or friends have become a common occurrence in the capital (
 
 
  A senior police official tells us, "It's a very Indian thing – the typical Indian male psyche ki chalo zara chhod kar aate hain. These men come to see off their wives and girlfriends and when they get caught, they say, 'I never intended to go beyond this point, anyway.'"
 
  Talking about their modus operandi, Sanjay Bhatia says, "In most cases, men come to see off their wives or girlfriends, in other cases, it is either a female friend, mother or daughter. Almost every year, around 50-100 such cases of people entering the airport premises using a fake ticket come to our notice. The accused books two tickets and then cancels one of them, and enters with a cancelled ticket. Sometimes people just download an older ticket and rewrite the date."
 
  
 A CISF official says, "If the name on the ticket matches the identity proof shown to us, we have to allow them to enter inside the terminal building." Talking about the profile of such people, Bhatia says, "These are non-criminals, non-anti-social, educated, sophisticated people, who are completely ignorant about this matter or have a false impression that they can enter the airport premises, see off their partner and quietly come out without being noticed. When caught, a case of forgery and unauthorized entry is registered against them."
 
  
 This serious breach of security has prompted the Delhi Police to put up a board saying that anybody entering the building with an invalid ticket will be prosecuted. Bhatia says, "Many international airports allow entry to visitors till the boarding point, so even foreigners often try entering the airport using invalid tickets. In December, four South Korean nationals, who were working with an MNC in Gurgaon went inside the airport using fake tickets to see off their female friend. It was simply a matter of ignorance, as they were not any criminals. To avoid any legal action, we have put up a board alerting the passengers about the same. But they either don’t see it or ignore it and enter the airport premises without a valid ticket." The CISF has been toying with the idea to introduce automated e-gates at the Delhi Airport for an year now, however, nothing has been done so far.
 
