MUMBAI: On a day when he should've been sulking,   lifted his spirits up with a memorable 'reunion' with his first love - cricket. "Going to open the inning with old teammate #samirdighe at#Cci #rajsinghdungarpur#memorial#cricket#match @vikrantgupta73 @cricbuzz," the former India skipper tweeted on Saturday evening. Down south, former MP   had been elected as the new president of the   (HCA), the same election in which Azharuddin wasn't allowed to contest by the returning officer K Rajiv Reddy due to lack of clarity on whether the   had lifted his life ban after the match-fixing scandal in 2000.

 The 99-Test veteran made no bones about the fact that he was disappointed that the elections were not conducted as per the Justice Lodha panel recommendations. "It's very disappointing, although I totally respect the decision of the court. But my personal feeling is that when the election was held, no (Justice) Lodha (panel) recommendations were followed," said Azhar.
 
 "Naturally, if he (Vivekanand) is the only person to run for the election, then he will obviously win. You didn't allow many people to run for the election. According to the Lodha report, an election commissioner has to conduct the election. If he is not available in Hyderabad, he should be sought from another state. They didn't do that. They appointed a returning officer and held the election," Azhar lamented.
 
 "But anyway, the court has given its verdict. I totally respect that but we have to decide the future course of action," he summed up. Vivekanand, who is currently an advisor to the Telangana government, got 136 votes, while his rival   bagged 69 votes as per the results declared late on Friday night.
 
 The election was held on January 17 but the counting was held only on Friday night after the go ahead given by the  , where it had been challenged by some contending parties.
 
 
 
 
 His attempt at getting into cricket administration may have been no balled, the 54-year-old, though, is happy to offer coaching tips to youngsters, and anyone who approaches him, these days.
 
 A classic example was how he advised   to "Stay back and play the ball late," a tip which helped the Pakistan batsman overcome a slump in England with a classy 218 in the final Test at the Oval.
 
 "I've always been active (as a coach). A lot of players come from abroad and get coached by me. I am always seen here coaching many times. I'm always interested in doing that.
 
 "Today as well, some of the boys approached me, and I shared some time with them. Whatever you have done (well), you should always impart the knowledge to the future generations. That's how it should be for everyone," he felt.
 
 News reports had claimed that uncertainty over whether Azharuddin's life ban imposed by the BCCI had been lifted, and whether he was classified as an HCA voter, resulted in his disqualification.
 
