Apartment sales in the city and suburbs could double the next couple of years though the cumulative floor space built may remain same.

 With   giving affordable housing a push, developers said the focus would shift from apartments priced at Rs 45 lakh and more for upper-middle-income families to Rs 10-25 lakh flats, targeting low and mid-income families. “Developers will take up affordable housing as they will now be eligible for government incentives, subsidies, tax benefits and institutional funding,“ said Merlin MD Sushil Mohta, who expects annual home stock in Kolkata to go up from 15,000-17,000 units to 25,000 next year and 30,000 by 2019. They will cater to a new class of home buyers, comprising blue-collared workers like drivers, nurses, electricians.
 
 If  's announcement of interest subsidy on loans for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna projects had sparked interest, Wednesday's announcements will spur developers into action. Mohta believes at least 5,000 new units of 323 sq-ft carpet area will be announced in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area within six months and more projects of 646 sq-ft carpet area in other towns. Now, projects have apartment size ranging from 750 sq ft to 1,600 sq ft. “The tweak from built-up area to carpet area that increases the coverage net by almost 15% in affordable housing will give people more elbowroom. It is an extremely pragmatic move,“ said Jain Group executive director Rishi Jain.
 
 For buyers, lower income tax for those earning less than Rs 5 lakh will mean more income at hand after paying EMI.Developers can reduce flat prices following the infrastructure status to affordable housing that will bring down cost of funds. “The core sector label will mean cheaper loans, faster clearances and tax benefits on plant and machinery for construction,“ said Harsh Patodia of Unimark Group, vice-president of Credai-National.
 
 The decision to levy capital gains tax on joint development residential projects after completion rather than at the time of the agreement will give a fillip to MIG and HIG homes in Kolkata proper. The reduction in minimum holding time to be classified as capital gains from three two years would encourage investment in real estate, said Nandu Belani of Belani Group and Credai-Bengal president.
 
 
