COIMBATORE: The   lake has been declared the urban biodiversity conservation zone, the first of its kind in the state. Rural and municipal administration minister   made the official announcement in this regard on Sunday and appreciated the environmentalists and various organisations that have come together to protect the lake. 

 The lake was declared the urban biodiversity conservation zone by exercising the city corporation’s powers under the twelfth schedule of Article 243W of the Constitution. 
 
 “This will set an example to other municipalities and corporations across the state to exercise this power and conserve the lake,” said Velumani. 
 
 With this move, the local body can now take strict action against the people indulging in illegal activities such as hunting, poaching, and encroachment and dumping of debris/waste on the tank bunds and in the lake. The civic body can come up with laws to protect the lake. 
 
 “This will work as a protective layer for the lake and help in its conservation,” said  , an executive member of the Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation, a society of like-minded people to conserve the lake, which joined the civic body in organising the event. 
 
 “People living in cities fail to notice the bio-diversity of urban locations. Communities have to come together to protect them. This is one such step in which the government and local administration have been involved and constitutional rights have been exercised,” she added. 
 
 The lake boasts of more than 720 flora and fauna species of which 155 are bird species and 369 plant species. Butterflies, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, fish, dragonflies and other invertebrates have also been recorded in the lake. 
 
 A group of volunteers have been working continuously for the conservation of the Singanallur lake’s bio-diversity. They have planted thousands of saplings and have maintained them for several years. Many of them have grown into trees of 25-30-foot height. More than 120 species of native and exotic such as tamarind, teak, mulberry, fern, orchid, giant bamboo, white baked acacia tree, shisham tree, wood apple tree and many other such trees that provide shade and attract more birds have been planted at the lake. 
 
  has also submitted a letter of interest to the minister seeking permission to collaborate nature education programmes along with corporation for school and college students. “They will employ a person who will be in charge of this activity and arrange various activities to ensure that awareness is spread about nature and bio-diversity conservation,” said a volunteer. Students of Sri Ramakrishna College, Sri Krishna College and all corporation schools took part in the event and planted saplings on the tank bunds. 
 
