CHENNAI: People in the city can expect improved quality of power — or smooth and steady voltage supply, unlike fluctuating current that ruins domestic appliances and electronic gadgets — with transmission utility Tangedco now replacing old lines with high-capacity, underground cables.

 Underground cables will allow Tangedco to transmit power without a break, even during storms.
 
 “We lost several transmission towers during Cyclone Vardah,” a senior Tangedco official told TOI. “There will be no outages with underground high capacity cables, even in heavy rain or cyclones.”
 
 Most of these high-voltage cables will run beneath main roads, including some of Chennai’s arterial thoroughfares, at depths of up to 10 metres. The state-run discom is also replacing transformers and interlinking substations for backup power in the event that substations fail.
 
 “We will change and reroute the cables at a cost of Rs 292.50 crore,” the official said. “All localities across Chennai will switch over from older lines to either 230kv UG [underground] cables or 110kv UG cables, with the various stretches adding up to a length of 103.42km.”
 
 Tangedco has already laid the new cables between Tiruverkadu and Ambattur; Rohini Theatre and CMRL-Koyambedu; the Guindy and RA Puram substations; and the RA Puram and Mambalam substations.
 
 “We have started work to lay new cables in 18 neighbourhoods across Chennai and its suburbs,” the official said. “In some areas, workmen have already laid lines that we have commissioned; in other areas, we’ve tested the new cables and they are ready for commissioning.”
 
 The discom is also linking high-tension transmission lines underground. “We are doing this between Manali and Mylapore; Guindy and Mambalam via RA Puram; Guindy and Porur;   and Pulianthopu-Tondiarpet; and Pulianthopu and Vyasarpadi,” the official said. “This will help increase the load as all of the new lines are 230kv cables.”
 
 Between the   and KK Nagar substations as well as between the Munusami Salai and Ramapuram substations, Tangedco will use 110kv cables.
 
 
