GURUGRAM:   in seven sectors of the city haven’t been cleaned even once in the last four years, the reply to an   petition has revealed. 

 “No underground and overhead water tanks under the jurisdiction of   division no II was cleaned during the last four years,” stated the RTI reply, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
  Both overhead and underground tanks in Sector 5, 12 and 18 were last cleaned in 2013, while those in Sector 21, 22, 23 and 23A were cleaned in the year of 2011 last time. “It is shocking that despite paying maintenance and regular charges, we are made to consume water stored in tanks that have not been cleaned for so many years,” said  , a resident of Sector 23 who had filed the RTI petition.
 
 “The water that we get at our place smells really bad. Some labourers, who live close to an underground tank in Sector 23, has told us that the stench from the tank has made it impossible for them to live in the area. The water from the tank is unhygienic but we don’t have any other option,” said Karan Srivastava, a resident of Sector 22.
 
 Some residents have blamed the dirty water for the poor health of their children. “My younger daughter, who is 6-year-old, got diarrhoea last year and is down with fever this year too. Though we have a RO water purifier at our place still I can’t let my children consume this contaminated water any more,” said Malini Bhatt, a resident of Sector 3. In 2011, the State Information Commission of Haryana directed Huda, in public interest, to put up notice boards at all the underground and overhead water tanks, mentioning the ‘date of cleaning’ and the ‘next date of cleaning’.
 
 TOI found out that there is no notice board at most of the tanks. And even if notice boards have been put up near some tanks, there is no information about cleaning process.
 
 When contacted, Huda officials blamed   for the unhygienic condition of the tanks. “Sector 3, 5, 12, 12A, 18, 21, 22, 23 and 23A have been transferred to MCG. However, the water is being chlorinated regularly,” said a Huda official, requesting anonymity. An MCG official said the civic body had taken over the sectors recently, and would take care of the tanks in future. “We have been cleaning few tanks. However, it will take some time to cover all the tanks,” said the MCG official. 
 
 
