GANDHINAGAR: The   is planning to regularize   being illegally used for constructions without conversion to   (NA) status. Similarly,   for which premium or revenue fees had not been paid will also be regularized.

 Sources said that this move is likely to be more popular than the regularizing of unauthorized residential constructions on land falling under the Urban Land Ceiling (ULC) Act. This will also help the BJP woo urban voters in an election year.
 
 The sources further said that the state government had initiated steps to present a new bill to amend current revenue laws and give title clearance to all such lands and constructions on them.
 
 A senior official said there are thousands of properties in the eight municipal corporations and other urban areas which were built on agricultural land without conversion to NA land.
 
 “Such constructions are on private land without title clearance,” the official said. “The situation is that the government has not been able to collect any NA premium, revenue, stamp duty and registration fees for such land and their users cannot get title clearance for the properties.”
 
 For the government authorities, removing such constructions is not possible as they are in large numbers
 
 “Hence, like the ULC Land Act amendment ordinance, the government aims to pass a new Bill in the upcoming assembly session to regularize all such land by charging nominal or reasonable fees,” the official said.
 
 Sources said the types of agriculture land on which such constructions have been made are old tenure land, new tenure land, and tenancy type land.
 
 Hence premium rates will be fixed accordingly and charges for regularising all such titles will be also be decided accordingly, the sources said.
 
 “The state government had consultations with all municipal commissioners and collectors and asked for data on such land and their suggestions on how regularization of constructions can be done. The bill is expected in the upcoming budget session,” the source said.
 
 Sources said the proposed land reform will cover residential and other constructions, including commercial and social (temples, gau shalas, and schools). The government plans to regularize all such land and constructions for nominal fee. This will help the government in generating new income.
 
 “Earlier, the government had totally given up on this income due to the illegal use of land and non-payment of premium and revenue fees,” a source said. “The amendment bill will help lakhs of city dwellers, especially in eight municipal corporations, get title clearance.” The owners of such land will also get proper value of their property which is currently less compared to market rate. Moreover, the state government was not getting any stamp duty, registration fees and other taxes as all property dealings where happening without registration, sources said.
 
 
