GURUGRAM: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal   on Tuesday said the long-pending plan for a new Metro route to Delhi — from Iffco Chowk to Dwarka Sector 21 — was in “extreme final stage” and would be approved soon. The proposal, which comprises the detailed project report (DPR), submitted to the state government by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has been awaiting approval of the Haryana government for several years now.

 “The approval is in the extreme final stages, and we will very soon give nod to the route. It can be done any moment now,” Khattar told TOI. “The delay is primarily because we want to have the best possible route, which can cater to maximum crowd. Simultaneously, we are also planning to connect Huda City Centre with the Gurgaon railway station so that large parts of the old city can be linked to Metro,” he said.
 
 Khattar on Tuesday formally inaugurated the already operational second phase of Rapid Metro. He took a ride from Sector 55-56 station along with some children from an NGO, most of whom were travelling in Metro for the first time.
 
 “Gurgaon is the Silicon Valley of India and attracts several thousand people from across the globe. This city has its share of traffic issues and we are trying to solve them. There are plans to extend Metro line from Huda City Centre to Subhash Chowk and the railway station. Also, there is a plan to have pod taxi from Dhaula Kuan in Delhi to Manesar. These are among the steps we intend to take to solve the commuting woes faced by people here,” he said.
 
 In the past, Khattar had expressed his reservation about approving the DMRC’s plan for an alternative Metro route from Dwarka Sector 21 to Iffco Chowk as he felt that the line which passes through farmhouses in Pushpanjali area will not attract commuters.
 
 “The CM feels that those living in farmhouses anyway would not use Metro to commute, and therefore was not in favour of the proposed route. He is of the opinion that the route should connect thickly populated areas in Gurgaon so that not only will it provide an efficient transport to lakhs of people, but also it will be commercially viable. Also, the state does not have to suffer financial losses,” said a senior government official. It is learnt that authorities are working on an alternative route, tweaking the original proposed route, which is likely to get the crucial nod from the chief minister, who has been often criticised for not starting any new Metro route since assuming power. 
 
 
