
 
  Guruprasad finally opened up and spoke to   but still kept things in suspense. “Let the film release. I will give a detailed statement on why I am silent now. I have not disowned the film and I do not want to respond to all the allegations and statements being made against me. I am also a producer of the film. I will issue a statement once the film releases,” he said.
  
  Speculation was rife that Guruprasad has not only refused to promote the film but is also upset with actors and technicians who are promoting it. The angry director had seemingly shut out everyone and refused to talk. For years, his talk was his capital. But now he is showing he can be as noisy without talking.
  
  When Mirror spoke to Guruprasad, his first to any media in the last few weeks, the director seemed to be unworried. “It is my film. You will enjoy watching it. I have put in a lot of effort and am very confident about it. It is because the film is good that I am not worried. I will clear all the confusion soon. There are legal complications involved too. So let us wait for a few days more,” he said.
  
  After the success of   and Eddelu Manjunatha, Guruprasad introduced   in Director’s Special. The film had a huge hype given Guruprasad’s previous films. Dhananjaya was signed for four films before the release of Director’s Special. But the film turned out to be a failure at the box office.
  
  Guruprasad took up Eradane Sala (Second Time) as a challenge to this failure and cast Dhananjaya again.
  
  The delay in the making of the film is said to have caused a rift between the director and the producer. When the producer announced its release, Guruprasad, who had his own release plans kept away. It was during the audio launch of the film a few weeks ago the differences came out in the open.
  
  The trailers of the film have become a huge hit online creating expectations about the film.
  
  Why exactly Guruprasad is upset about his own film is something only he can reveal, which he has promised to do in a few days. 
