Step into Chinnaswamy stadium on the afternoon of an RCB match, and you are bound to see thousands of faces marked with the RCB colours, red and gold, usually applied with marker pens. For one group of fans, all that's kids' stuff. For them, attending a match is not just an opportunity to showcase their fandom, but also a chance to transform themselves into colourful avatars of personalities from India's history and myth. Not surprisingly, these colourful, cosplaying cheerleaders have fan followings of their own.

 It's not just the RCB matches, of course. You're just as likely to find these fans, dressed as anything from Ravana or the Incredible Hulk or Kempegowda or the emperor Babur at a Bengaluru Football Club match or a kabaddi tournament at Sree Kanteerava stadium. 
 
 
 
 D Sugumar, a senior executive with a private logistics firm at the Kempegowda International Airport, is probably the most colourful of this very picturesque group. An RCB fan since the inception of the  , Sugumar attended matches at Chinnaswamy stadium dressed, like any other fan, in a team jersey and cap. But it wasn't enough for the die-hard   fan. "I still remember. It was the third match of RCB in April 2008 and I went in as the Maharaja of Mysuru. I was a huge hit with the other fans on the stand. The next day, I was thrilled to see myself on the front page of the city newspapers," says Sugumar.
 
 While he was a student at New Horizons school in Indiranagar, back in class 6, Sugumar entered a fancy-dress contest dressed as a king. The experience - both of participation and winning prizes, stayed with him, and the reception to his first attempt at "fancy dress" as an adult spurred him to better, and improve his costume at every game. Since that day in 2008, Sugumar has appeared dressed variously as Kempegowda, Sangolli Rayanna, Shiva and even the vampire from the Vikram and Vetaal stories. In his own way, he has promoted cricket, football and kabaddi matches, as assiduously as the most beautiful cheerleaders. "I was born to encourage sports and happy I'm doing just that," he says, proudly. 
 
 Sugumar, interestingly, was conferred a doctorate for entertainment by a local university on Saturday. 
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, 24-year-old Suhas Naidu is despondent as his Karnataka cricketing hero K L Rahul has been ruled out of IPL, following a shoulder injury. This fan from Srirampura was seen cheering for India in the Pune test against Australia, painted in the tricolor. He was also seen dressed variously as a king, a soldier and in traditional Kannada attire on all four days of the Test match in Bengaluru. "I had an elaborate plan with specially designed costumes to cheer for Rahul and our team RCB. But with Rahul out of IPL, I will just attend the matches as a regular supporter," says Naidu. The youngster is also a regular at Karnataka state Ranji trophy matches, and has been attending them for the past four years.
 
 Naidu's inspiration is Bihar-native Sudhir Chaudhary, the famous   fan who made a name for himself attending cricket matches with his hair styled like the map of India, his body painted in the tricolor, and the words "Tendulkar 10" painted across his chest. "I had cheered from the stands for the India-Australia match in Bengaluru. I have not been cheering for IPL since 2013 but had attended an IPL match at Chinnaswamy stadium few years ago in regular clothes along with some friends," says Chaudhary, whose fandom has now led to sponsorships and ad appearances. Chaudhary is now gearing up to fly to the UK to cheer for the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy and wave the Indian flag in his distinctive fashion.
 
 
 
 
 Sometime during the last IPL season. Finnish national Jari Aro Heinila found himself attending an RCB match. Also on the stands was Sugumar. No doubt inspired by Sugumar's costume, Heinila and his wife Kirsi landed up at the next match, dressed as king and queen. Their fellow audience members went wild, and the Finnish couple returned, delighted with their experiment. Heinila, a plumbing technician from Rauma in Finland, knew little about cricket initially. Now, he says he's a huge fan of  .
 
 The experience was so much fun that Heinila is back again, this time with a friend. "My wife and I attended an RCB match last year dressed as a maharaja and queen. This year I have come again mainly to cheer for the team in a costume from the stands. I'm preparing the gear and makeup items for our big RCB match days," he says. His partner in dressing up this year is  , a corporal with the Finnish army. "This is my first time and I'm very excited as Jari narrated to me the fun he had on the stands last year. Of course I'm wearing an Indian maharaja's costume with face paintings of Bengaluru team shades," says Saartomaa. Their big plan this time around? To go cheer RCB dressed as Rama and Lakshmana. And who knows, maybe watch Gayle hit up a record knock.
 
 
