CHENNAI: A state delegation led by health minister C   met Union ministers J P Nadda and   in New Delhi to expedite the process of exempting state-run medical colleges from the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET). 

 On January 31, Vijaya Baskar moved two bills in the state legislative assembly seeking to exclude   from NEET for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses. But professional education comes under the concurrent list and the state has to obtain prior assent from the President. Besides the law ministry, the ministry of health and family welfare must clear it before recommending presidential assent.
 
 The Union home ministry has forwarded the two bills to the health and HRD ministries for their remarks. After meeting health minister Nadda, Vijay Baskar said he was hopeful of getting the presidential assent. 
 
 "This year we have 3.5 lakh students writing biology exam. We have told the Union minister that NEET will be a challenge for them to compete with   students. We also told them that we are seeking exemption only for state government colleges and government seats in the self-financing colleges affiliated to the state university, not for deemed universities in the state. He said he will consider the state's plea," Vijaya Baskar said. 
 
 On Friday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had urged Javadekar to expedite the process. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the concurrence of the central ministries to the TN bills was crucial. "It is a policy decision of the state to admit students based on Class XII marks. NEET is one-sided and affects social justice, as it will help only CBSE students who take up coaching," he said.
 
 The replies will be forwarded to the law ministry before being sent to the President for approval. Another team of officials will soon leave for Delhi to meet officials from law ministry and the Prime Minister's Office, sources said. Until the President's nod is obtained, educational experts said, there is no escape from NEET. 
 
 "At present, admissions to all medical and dental colleges should be made based on NEET scores," said educationist J P Gandhi.
 
