AURANGABAD: If you’re a two-wheeler rider not wearing a helmet while driving, you will have to cough up a fine of Rs 500.

 The police have started imposing fines on violators of the helmet norms on Saturday. The state issued a circular on the helmet policy that came into force on January 20. But, it was only on Saturday that the city police launched a campaign against violators. The police have been advised to keep their cool while doing their duty of imposing ‘chalan’ on violators.
 
 In the drive that came to an end around 8.30pm on Saturday, the police fined 550 people for not wearing helmet while riding two-wheelers. A fine of Rs 2.75 lakh was collected in the drive.
 
 A traffic policeman told TOI that with the increase in fines, arguments with violators has also increased as the public is finding it tough to pay the Rs 500 fine.
 
 The traffic department had also fined 161 two-wheeler riders for violating helmet norms till February 10. The number registered a four-fold rise on Saturday, after the city police called for a daylong campaign in the limits of the four traffic divisions of Aurangabad,  , Cantonment and Waluj covering all the 15 police stations. 
 
 A traffic constable with Cidco division said, “We are following the seniors’ directives, but violators of traffic norms are taking it personally and this results in heated arguments. We also end up losing our cool because of this.
 
 On Saturday, the traffic police on Saturday caught some students struggling to pay the fine. They were pleading with the policemen to let them go. However, they had to pay up the fine which came up to Rs 500.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police   said, “This is not at all personal. Whatever the police does is as per law. The revised fine is approximately what a normal helmet costs in open market. We hope that people will prefer safety over paying the Rs 500 fine.”
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (traffic)   said, “There are increased reports of people getting annoyed. We have asked our men to be patient while issuing challan to the helmet norm violators. We have also told them to explain the violators how important it is to wear helmets.”
 
 The   said that he was constantly patrolling the city limit, along with his police inspectors to ensure that the drive is being carried out without friction with the violators.
 
 City division’s traffic chief and police inspector Avinash Aghav said, “We have asked our men to ensure they do not get in to arguments. They have been instructed to remain courteous and behave professionally while handling violators.”
 
 
