BENGALURU: Police registered an FIR against seven persons in connection with the mysterious death on Monday of a 44-year-old junior artiste at a construction site, where she was taking part in the shooting of a  .

 Padmamma Muniyappa was found dead in a lift shaft at the basement of the building, located near Avalahalli, Rajanukunte, off Doddaballapur Main Road. The shooting of VIP, a Kannada film directed by Nandakishore and starring Manoranjan, son of prominent Kannada star V Ravichandran, was underway at the site since Monday morning. The FIR named as suspects the director and four crew members, the owner of Prestige Group, which is building apartments at the construction site, and the contractor, and invoked IPC sections 143, 304 A and 149, besides the SCST Act 1989. The film director and other crew members named in the FIR are missing, police said.
 
 Curiously , the FIR does not name the producer of the film among the suspects. In October last, police had filed a case against the producer and other crew members when two actors jumped off a helicopter and drowned in T G Halli reservoir, during the shooting of a Kannada film, Maasti Gudi.VIP is produced by `Rockline' Venkatesh.
 
 Police officials claimed that they had named as suspects only those people in the complaint filed by the dead woman's mother.
 
 Sources in the jurisdictional   said they suspect Padmamma fell into the lift shaft from an upper floor. They, however, are yet to conclude when and how she fell. Padmamma, her mother   and aunt Nagarathnamma were among 120 junior artistes taking part in the shooting. The shooting took place on the first and fifth floors. According to Lakshmamma, a crew member told her around 3pm that Padmamma had fallen from the fifth floor and injured herself. “When I rushed to the spot, I found that my daughter was dead,“ the plaint read.
 
 Police claim when they reached the spot, only the bereaved family members were present. The film unit members had fled, police said.
 
 
 
 
 The question of safety measures comes up if the death had happened during shooting.The mishap happened after shooting was wound up for the day and the unit had left the spot. The artiste may have slipped and fallen into the shaft,“ Venkatesh said.
 
