PUNE: The Union government's proposal to brand   like ' ' or ' ' to augment revenue has upset doctors.

  (IAP), a national association of child specialists and paediatricians, may file a public interest litigation over the   of junk food and aerated beverages. The academy said such a move ‘would pollute immature minds of children’ and ‘lead to an epidemic of lifestyle diseases’. 
 
 The Railways reaches the country's remotest villages where promotion of beverages would send wrong signals to adolescents, they added. 
 
 “We oppose   of trains in this manner if it is going to affect public health. The Union government seems unaware of the huge economic burden and manpower loss resulting from lifestyle diseases. For a revenue gain of Rs 2,000 crore, the government is planning to promote food items which are linked to metabolic diseases that already afflict 38% of the population,” paediatrician Pramod Jog, president of IAP, Pune chapter, said.
 
 Such endorsements will make people think that junk food and aerated beverages do not affect health. Research has already confirmed their ill-effects, Jog added. 
 
 “The government should devise better methods of revenue generation. IAP will approach the authorities to convince them about the implications of such an endorsement. If they refuse to budge, we will file a PIL to stop this irresponsible act,” he said. 
 
 National secretary general of the academy and paediatrician Bakul Parekh said, “The government wants to generate revenue by branding trains like 'Pepsi Rajdhani' or 'Coke Shatabdi' at the cost of public health. It will be a disaster if the decision comes into effect.”
 
 Paediatrician Anupam Sachdev, national president-elect of IAP, said, “Fast foods result in lifestyle diseases. Recently, a beverage advertisement on social media warned that it is not recommended for children. Such advertisements in trains can harm children and lead to an epidemic of lifestyle diseases. Everyone should oppose food items known to be harmful to citizens, especially children.”
 
