What does it take a film to get a certificate from the Censor Board? A few cuts, disclaimers, maybe a statutory 'smoking kills' warning? Now the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has directed Suresh Jha to get a no-objection certificate from the Prime Minister's office for using  's name in his movie titled Modi Ka Gaon.

 "Whenever the name of a celebrity, leader or a known figure is used, we ask for an   from the makers. That's a rule. If  's, CM's or PM's name is used in the film, we demand an NOC," CBFC chief Pahlaj Nihalani told Mirror.
 
 "The footage in the film has been shot without permission. They have used and shot a lot of things," Nihalani further added. The filmmakers have also been asked to delete or replace the name 'Pappu', who has been portrayed as a local leader in the film. In this film, Pappu Bihari plays the role of a local leader, who not only opposes government policies, but is also famous for impractical and irrelevant statements, Jha said. He added that, "They (CBFC) probably apprehended that 'Pappu' might be linked to a prominent   leader. However, in Bihar, 'Pappu' is a very common name, so I am mystified why the Censor Board is opposed to it." Reportedly, the film features PM Narendra Modi's development agenda and his vision for transforming the country. 
 
 Nihalani though denied asking for any such change saying, "We haven't asked them to do any such thing. Tell them to show you the show cause notice, which we have given them," Nihalani lashed out. We did just that and found that the filmmaker has indeed been asked to delete the term Pappu and seek an NOC from the PMO to get a U/A certificate.
 
 Interestingly, the Censor Board's demand for an NOC from the PMO comes just a few days after it's chief was upset about a court seeking cuts to a film after it had got it's certificate. Akshay-Kumar-starrer Jolly LLB 2 was embroiled in a controversy with Indian courts just last week and Nihalani had told Mirror on February 7 that after the CBFC clears a film, any kind of appeal should not be entertained in any court. "If a certificate is given to a film, it should not be challengeable. After the clearance given to a film, if such things happen, then what is the value of certification?" he had questioned. 
 
 When questioned about his changed stance,   said, "That context was different. The (Jolly LLB 2) reference was completely different. We clear the film when we get NOCs for all the names used in the film."
 
 According to the producer, the 135-minute film is not a biopic on the PM's life. Jha added that it has been decided that the revision committee will be approached before moving court.
 
 
