GANDHINAGAR: Union minister for new and  , Piyush Goyal, launched the third ‘Scaling Up Minigrids and Microgrids’ programme, under   (ISA) at the ongoing annual meetings of African   in Gandhinagar, on Wednesday.

 Goyal urged African nations to participate more actively in the international solar alliance and gain from the partnership of solar energy rich countries. The Union minister was speaking at a panel discussion on ‘Africa-India Cooperation on Powering Africa - Strengthening ISA and Africa-India RE Partnership’.
 
 Expressing his views on eradicating poverty from Africa, Goyal said Africa has to ensure the use of renewable energy. Poverty cannot be eliminated without ensuring energy security, said the energy minister. As the African continent is rich in solar energy, African nations must use this natural resource for poverty alleviation, he stressed. 
 
 Goyal said 15 countries from Africa have already joined the solar alliance, and India would like to offer its help to take electricity to every home in Africa. 
 
 The Union finance ministry headed by finance minister Arun Jaitley has finalized extending a $10 billion line of credit at the Indian African summit. Of this, almost $1.5 billion to $2 billion has been earmarked to help African nations improve their grid connectivity, Goyal said.
 
 The Union energy minister said that India would like to be a part of the development process in Africa as equals. “We want to work in Africa not with sympathy, but it is a partnership of empathy,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that electricity is no more a luxury, but a necessity, Goyal said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision is to connect every single home with electricity by 2022, the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.”
 
 “But my ministry and all the state governments are working hard to achieve this goal by 2019, as we believe that a day without electricity is a day wasted from the life of poor people,” he added. The minister also invited African nations to use the experiences and modern technology which India has developed.
 
