CHENNAI: The   on Wednesday submitted a   against   R Kamaraj, two senior AIADMK (Amma) leaders and two other partymen for preventing them from   during the   at   C Vijayabhaskar's residence last Friday.

 I-T officials met Chennai city police commissioner Karan Singha and submitted the complaint which he forwarded to south zone additional commissioner of police K Shankar. I-T raids were conducted on the premises of Vijayabhaskar, MGR Medical University V-C Geethalakshmi and actor R Sarathkumar on Friday . Acting on a tip, I-T sleuths had raided the houses of Vijayabas kar, MGR university vice-chancellor S Geethalakshmi and actorcum-politician R Sarathkumar on Friday .
 
 In the complaint, the I-T officials said food and civil supplies minister R Kamaraj and senior AIADMK (Amma) leaders Thalavai Sundaram and Udumalai Radhakrishnan had barged into the house of Vijayabaskar on Greenways Road when the raid was going on.
 
 Income tax sources said the presence of the minister and other leaders had an intimidating effect on the team conducting searches.
 
 The AIADMK leaders pushed aside two CRPF men and entered the house despite objections. Repeated requests from the CRPF men, who pointed out that others could not enter the premises when a raid was on, fell on deaf ears. An AIADMK worker wearing a red shirt snatched a bunch of papers from the armed CRPF men and escaped. Vijayabaskar's driver also threatened another I-T official, said the complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, the driver of Vijayabaskar got himself admitted to the Government Royapettah Hospital on Friday claiming that I-T officials attacked him for no reason. Later in the evening, he lodged a police complaint at the Abiramapuram police station against unnamed I-T officials for attacking him. The Abiramapuram police issued a community service register (CSR) on his complaint.
 
 Singha was appointed city police commissioner by the Election Commission of India replacing Sebastian George in the run-up to the RK Nagar byelection. The model code of conduct that had been in force in the state since March 23 when the Election Commission announced the bypoll was lifted on Monday evening a day after the commission cancelled it.
 
 Earlier, former north zone inspector general of police N K Senthamaraikannan and Kancheepuram district superintendent of police J Mutharasi were shunted out of their posts for registering a case against AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.
 
