KALYAN:   claimed the life of a 23-year-old biker in Kalyan on Tuesday night as he was stabbed by another motorcycle rider allegedly over damages following an accident. The suspected killer was arrested within a few hours.

 Police said the accident happened near   around 10 pm when Sandeep Hire alias Pintya, a newspaper vendor from Thankarpada area in Kalyan (West), was returning home after a friend’s birthday party in a restaurant . On the way, his bike hit a motorcycle, belonging to Amol Jadhav (25), a fruit shop owner, who was also returning to his home in Kongaon area of Bhiwandi.
 
 As Jadhav demanded that Hire pay for the damage to his vehicle, an argument broke out between the two. A patrol from Bazarpeth police station which was passing by, saw this and enquired about the issue. The patrol also asked them to come to the police station. However, Hire told the police that he would pay Jadhav for repairing his bike. On seeing the two men leave in search of a bike repair shop, the patrol left. 
 
 However, around 15 minutes later when they were near Durgadi fort, just a kilometre from the accident spot, the two men again got into an argument, police sources said adding that Jadhav, in a fit of anger, stabbed Hire with a knife he had with him. The spot was desolate and no one was around. While Hire died on the spot, Jadhav fled away, police said. 
 
 Hire was the bread winner for his family as his father had died a few years ago. His elder sister is married and his mother is left alone. 
 
 When police reached the murder spot, they recognised the victim as the youth who was involved in the accident. The police jumped into action and formed special teams to trace the murderer, suspecting that the crime might have been committed by the biker whom Hire was taking to a vehicle repair shop.
 
 Around 2 am Wednesday, police arrested Jadhav from a friend's residence near home where he was hiding, said Sanjay Shinde, deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) of Thane police. 
 
 On Wednesday, Jadhav was produced before the Kalyan sessions court, which remanded him police custody.
 
 
