KOCHI: In the second phase, the plan for further developing   mobility hub would not have thrust on commercial development, a marked change from earlier proposal. This has resulted in the project cost coming down to almost one-fourth. Kochi   ( ), which has been entrusted with the project, has prepared a concept plan which targets reduction of project cost to well below Rs 100 crore from the original Rs 433 crore.

 Integration of different modes of transport like metro rail, bus and ferry would be the key element of the project. Walkways would facilitate the movement of passengers from one mode of transport to another.“The private agency we entrusted has prepared the concept plan. Moving away from earlier plans which require huge investments for commercial development, we want to restrict the constructions mainly to transportation purpose,“ an official with KMRL said.
 
 “Even the commercial development would revolve around the needs of passengers,“ the official said. There would be designated areas for mofussil, inter-district and interstate buses.“As of now, the private buses conducting inter-state services are operating from different parts of the city. They also can be provided space in the mobility hub after charging user fee,“ sources with the KMRL said.
 
 The project is being designed in an   and would give importance to open spaces. The built-up area would be limited to the bare minimum. The waterfront areas would be developed for recreational purpose. Vyttila junction will also be improved as part of the project. “The cost of the project sans commercial development would be around Rs 40 crore. Even if the cost of commer cial development is included, the total cost will be well within Rs 100 crore,“ sources said.
 
 The commercial development would be done keeping in mind better amenities for passengers. “There would be accommodation facilities for longdistance passengers. Accommodation would be offered on hourly basis as well,“ sources said. This would help passengers to choose the hub as transit station during long-distance journeys. They can hire rooms for refreshment in the interval between connection buses. There would be restaurants, ATMs, fuel stations and parking lots.
 
 Another commuter-friendly initiative is share-taxi or share auto service. There will be separate area demarcated for this service. Signages and electronic boards would be installed to provide information to the passengers. Smooth entry and exit for buses would also be ensured.
 
 The detailed project report (DPR) would be prepared in two months time, sources said. Once the DPR is ready, it will be sent to the   (VMHS). Then, it will be discussed in the governing council headed by chief minister and executive council. Agence Francaise de Developement (AFD), the French development agency, which is funding the Metro, has offered to fund the second phase. The proposal would, then, be sent to the AFD for clearance. It is learnt that the French agency has offered to provide funds at an interest rate of just 1%. The low interest rate would help the authorities to do away with disproportionate commercial development. If the interest rate is high, the VMHS and KMRL will be forced to go for commercial development so as to repay the loan, an official associated with the project said.
 
 The second phase development of the mobility hub was announced by VS Achuthanandan in 2011, while he was the chief minister. Kitco was appointed as the consultant. Later, the state finance department refused to fund the project citing huge cost. The agency later reduced the cost to around Rs 330 crore, but by then the state decided that the project should be implemented under public private partnership mode. But, no private entrepreneurs showed interest. When the new government assumed office, it decided to entrust KMRL with the implementation of the project.
 
