TIRUPATI: Nobel laureate and micro-finance founder   on Tuesday suggested that India should open ‘banks for the poor’ to boost the economic status of people, particularly in the rural areas.

 “In the present system we have banks for the rich. We do not have banks for the poor. If we need to take care of women and poorer and marginalised sections of society, we need to open banks that take care of the interests of the poor,” said Muhammad Yunus.
 
 In an interview to TOI on the sidelines of the 104th session of the Indian Science Congress here, Muhammad Yunus, who founded the   in Bangladesh, said post-demonetisation of high value currency India has two major challenging tasks - cutting down the roots of black money and encouraging digitisation of economy. He, however, refused to comment whether demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes was a right step.
 
 “I do not want to talk about the good or bad about demonetisation. The decision has been taken. Now, we should look at achieving the objectives. First, all roots and sources of black money should be identified. They should be cut. Secondly, digitisation of economy and cashless transactions should be encouraged. This should be done through incentives and through force,” Prof Yunus said. He pointed out that forcing cashless transactions will not yield the desired result. Many people will adopt digitisation if incentives are offered to them in the form of cash back, subsidy on internet connections and also mobile phones. 
 
 The Nobel laureate was all praise for AP chief minister N   for announcing Rs 1000 crore subsidy on purchase of mobile phones by women in rural areas. “Today I read about AP government’s decision to give Rs 1000 crore subsidy on mobile phones. This is a good step,” he said adding that such incentives should be given to the poor. Prof Yunus suggested that the focus should be more on rural areas where many people are not literate. Earlier, Modi felicitated Prof Yunus and presented him the ISC medal. 
 
 
