LUDHIANA: Six to seven men armed with swords attacked supporters of Lok Insaaf Party-AAP candidate from Atam Nagar constituency,  , at New Janta Nagar on Tuesday afternoon.

 Bains blamed supporters of SAD candidate Gurmeet Singh Kular and Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal, who are contesting from the same constituency, for the assault.
 
 Bains has also complained to the   against the two and demanded transfer of police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh.
 
 A van of LIP, equipped with LED screens telecasting a documentary, being run by supporter Tejpal Singh and three others, was promoting Bains. It stood outside the election office of SAD candidate Kular for almost two hours. As soon as the van moved, some men with covered faces attacked it with swords and allegedly thrashed Tejpal Singh, who was behind the wheel. Four of them have also been captured on a CCTV camera installed outside a factory. Bains said, “This is goondaism. My supporters were attacked with swords and Tejpal is missing. Supporters of opponent parties have abducted him. We have complained to the election commission to stop those spreading terror and tension in the constituency. Besides, I have also demanded transfer of commissioner of police Jatinder Singh Aulakh as he has failed to maintain law and order."
 
 ACP-II Kuldeep Sharma said, “We have recovered two swords and a stick from near the crime spot. From the footages of CCTV cameras, one accused has been identified as Honey Singh of Guru Nanak Colony . He is yet to be arrested."
 
 SAD candidate Gurmeet Kular said, “These are false allegations, a political stunt to get sympathy." Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal said, “He is making counter-allegations after being accused of attacking my wife. These charges are baseless."
 
 Sensitive zone
 
 Atam Nagar constituency has been hitting headlines for violence of late. The attack on the car of Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal's wife was reported on Monday, raising questions over security arrangements. Fifty-nine areas, including Atam Nagar constituency, have been declared sensitive and the police have claimed heavy deployment at such areas.
 
