CHENNAI: Calling for a comprehensive solution to address the menace of   and indiscriminate conversion of farmlands into housing plots, the   has, yet again, declined to vacate its September 9, 2016 order imposing blanket   on registration of unapproved layouts in  . 

 The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar, before whom the batch of PILs by activists and implead petitions by developers and individual landowners came up for further hearing on Monday, posted the matter to February 27 after advocate general of the state sought some more time. 
 
 When the case was taken up on Monday morning, advocate general R Muthukumaraswamy said the chief secretary was busy with several issues and so finalisation of rules to address the issue would require some more time. 
 
 While the state's request for adjournment was acceded to by the bench, the pleas of counsel for others who represented developers and landowners for relaxation of ban at least in respect of buildings already constructed on unapproved layouts were rejected outright by the judges. 
 
 Any indulgence on this score would take the matter back to square one, reasoned the bench. Noting that government was asking for more time to come out with a solution, the bench said it should not be a piecemeal exercise. A comprehensive solution was needed, the bench said.
 
 Advocate and activist Elephant G Rajendran, whose PIL on indiscriminate conversions of agricultural lands into housing layouts led to this blanket ban, said in his submissions that the authorities could consider his representation in the matter. 
 
 He suggested a sort of regularisation scheme according to which the government could charge about Rs 20 lakh per acre from developers who had used agricultural lands. It would bring a duty bonanza of Rs 11,600 crore to the state exchequer, Rajendran said. The Bench asked the authorities to consider that as well. 
 
 The court's timely blanket ban has been having a chilling effect on the thriving unapproved housing plot sector, which had expanded to every part of the state without adequate and proportionate state control.
 
 The court-imposed ban has put the registering authorities personally liable for action in case any unapproved layouts and buildings constructed on them were to be registered. 
 
 Several lakh unapproved residential plots are idling since September 9 when the order was delivered. The court has so far resisted all attempts to dilute the effect of the orders, and has asked the government to come out with comprehensive laws and schemes to address the issue.
 
 
