NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed   students’ plea against the University Grants Commission’s ( ) notification and said that the commission’s guidelines are “binding” on all universities without any “deviation”. This would mean that the unique feature of the JNU admission policy — the deprivation point model — will no longer be applicable to admissions to research programmes, said a senior JNU official.

 According to UGC norms, 100% weightage should be given to viva-voce (oral exam) for admissions to MPhil and PhD courses. JNU currently follows 70:30 weightage for the written test and the interview.
 
 “... the binding nature of the said regulations is not dependent upon it being adopted or accepted by the respondent university or any other university in the country. In other words, the (UGC) regulations are binding on the university by operation of law, i.e., UGC Act, 1956,” the court said.
 
 Following protests by students against the oral exam, the JNU administration negotiated and agreed for 80% weightage for the written exam. But, with the court’s verdict, even this model will not be possible, the official said.
 
 This would mean doing away with the deprivation point model, which facilitates entry of students, especially women from backward regions. In fact, 26 more districts were included in the scheme and aspirants from these regions would get an additional five points, the official added.
 
 Student leaders, however, are planning to move the court against Thursday’s verdict. Mohit Pandey, president,   said, “The university counsel has not placed the complete facts about the notification on admission policy before court. Therefore, we don’t agree with the verdict and will move the division bench.”
 
 The university officials, however, said that the deprivation point model will continue for the undergraduate and masters’ programmes.
 
 “We tried to bring out the most inclusive policy within the given framework, but the students didn’t cooperate with us and moved the court. Now, the university has no option but to implement the UGC notification in letter and spirit,” said another senior official.
 
 
