KOLKATA: With mayor   likely to appear before the   for questioning in the ongoing Narada probe on Monday, Kolkata   employees are keeping their fingers crossed. 

 If the Mayor gets tangled in any legal web and is kept away from office,   officials felt that it might affect the decision-making process to ensure essential services in a monsoon-hit city. 
 
 According to the KMC Act, in absence of the mayor, he may nominate the deputy mayor to take additional charge. However, in this case, deputy mayor Iqbal Ahmed has recently been quizzed by   and he might also nesed to appear before the ED. So, taking charge in the absence of the mayor might be doffcult for Ahmed
 
 Sources close to mayor said that Chatterjee himself was not very confident about a hassle-free investigation by ED. "Mayor has been asked to appear before the ED office with relevant papers relating to his assets and sources of wealth. This apart, CBI is also investigating the Narada sting operation separately. They might call him any day. Under such circumstances, he may have to stay away from office to clear up the legal issues," a Trinamool leader close to Chatterjee said.
 
 Worried over the functioning of the essential services in his absence, mayor has entrusted Debasis Kumar, one of the mayor-in-council members, to function as a crisis manager. Kumar has already taken charge of some of the departments under the deputy mayor. He has also been requested to look after some vital policy decisions, which are waiting for a nod from the mayor's office before being implemented. 
 
 Amendment of Unit Area Assessment (UAA) scheme has been one major issue, which needs to be resolved at the earliest. The UAA method of calculation of property tax was rolled out by the KMC assessment department from April 1 but it has been struggling for clarity on the taxation policy. Secondly, the KMC has been passing through a financial crisis due to lack of balance between less earning and over spending. 
 
 In the mayor's absence, Debasish Kumar held a meeting on Friday with senior KMC officials on funds provided by state under the 14th finance commission and expenditure by different civic departments. "Debasish Kumar is likely to play a pivotal role in management of important civic departments," said a KMC official. 
 
 
