NEW DELHI: If   pushed just a bit too far to wrest the leadership of   seriously discomfiting father Mulayam Singh, the objective is to seal the festering succession row in a way that it cannot be reopened. 

 The gambit reflecting extreme brinkmanship comes just ahead of Assembly elections in UP and the Yadav scion seems to have realised that the post-poll situation may be too risky to deal if rival factions are not quelled. A victory for Samajwadi Party would swat away any trace of resistance to his leadership, but for Akhilesh, a defeat may prove tricky to negotiate in a party with more than one power centre, some visible others less so. 
 
 Here, he seems to have taken a cue from father   who regularly lost elections but spent a peaceful stint in opposition being the undisputed leader of SP. Uncle Shivpal’s unwillingness to reconcile to Akhilesh’s leadership despite his five years as CM and Mulayam’s indulgent approach to his oldest confidant have been the roadblocks in the young leader’s future planning. If SP has to spend time in opposition,   has to be unchallenged leader with no rival Yadav faction in vicinity. It could be the key to his political longevity. 
 
 The lack of time ahead of polls pushed Akhilesh towards precipitate action like staging a rebel convention to unseat Mulayam. But this is where the script seems to have gone awry for the CM who otherwise has been confident of winning over Mulayam despite being openly hostile to   and Amar Singh. Because of its timing, the move borders on adventurism and allows his critics to nudge Mulayam into a tough stand. 
 
 Akhilesh seems to have delayed his coup de grace by a couple of months. It comes so close to elections that if his faction has to contest on a new platform, it would have little time to publicise a new party name and symbol. If SP stays united though factionalised, the fear of internal sabotage would lurk over the candidates. After the present humiliation, Shivpal supporters are unlikely to be willing to back the aspirants owing loyalty to Akhilesh -- a recipe for disaster. 
 
 Where Akhilesh seems to have fumbled is that he could not convince Mulayam about reining in the aspirations of Shivpal. His own hints like sacking the recalcitrant uncle from his Cabinet failed to deliver the message. 
 
 Ever since the clan war erupted three months ago, the Yadav household has been on the boil, with many a prognosis that the clashing ambitions would balkanise SP like its earlier socialist avatars. Ironically, Mulayam has been party to all of them, and knows a bit about it.
 
