MUMBAI: A   on Thursday convicted and sentenced a CBI   and an accomplice, a former bank officer, to four yearVimprisonment for attempting to   an officer investigating a   case against a senior railway official in 2005. The constable, Vijay Prabhu (47), who was assigned duty at the special   court in 2002, came in contact with Bank of India officer Bharat Shah (70), when he was convicted and sentenced to one day imprisonment and fined Rs 4 lakh in a corruption case. 

 The duo was arrested on March 12, 2006, and granted bail the following month.
 
 Beside statements of 31 witnesses, the court also relied on transcripts of the conversation recorded between the accused from June 6, 2005, to August 26, 2005. The prosecution had said that they began to investigate Prabhu on the basis of suspicion. They received permission from the ministry of home affairs, and began to intercept Prabhu’s phone conversations. The prosecution said the conversations were recorded by a specialised automatic Russian device.
 
 The prosecution said that 49 such conversations transcribed showed how the duo had gathered information on the investigating officer under whom Prabhu had worked in the court in Mumbai. The officer was posted in Gujarat in 2005. The prosecution alleged that the conversations showed that Shah called up Prabhu, asking if he could help him make the charge-sheet weak in the case against the railway officer. It stated that the duo even travelled to Gujarat on train tickets booked on false names, and Prabhu met the investigating officer at Gandhi Nagar on August 13, 2005. The officer in his deposition said that he walked away.
 
 The court explained that despite the absence of the word “bribe” in the conversations, the circumstances showed that he had agreed to receive illegal gratification in exchange for influencing the investigating officer to weaken the charge-sheet against the railway officer. “Though the words are not specific words that accused No 2 (Shah) would give a bribe but nobody talks by using such words as even the persons involved in corrupt practices have grown smarter by passage of time,” the court said.
 
 The court said the conversations in which phrases such as “there is chance in the matter” and “they would cover even PW 11 (investigating officer)” are used, a clear conclusion can be drawn that the conversation was nothing but to give a bribe, which Prabhu was not only ready to accept but also to offer the investigating officer.
 
 The court, while sentencing Prabhu, said, “It was the duty of the accused No 1 (Prabhu) to prevent corruption but he not only himself got involved but also attempted to rope in another officer, that too, of higher grade in corrupt activities. Therefore, no leniency can be shown in this case.” The court pointed out that Prabhu was a constable of the investigating agency, which had the highest status in the nation. In such an institution, if a person is corrupt, he not only bring down the institution, but directly affects the administration of the justice,” the court said.
 
 
