NAGPUR: The members of Nagpur for   on Friday got an   to hone their   at an   workshop organized by   at Mytri Willows, opposite  

 Bhakti Shah, founder of Comrade Activity Zone, flagged off the workshop with an interactive session and a quiz. Children learnt mnemonic learning technique and memorized the presidents of India.
 
 Shah also emphasized on the importance of reading newspapers and encouraged children to develop reading habit.
 
 The workshop was divided into two segments, funky art and balloon art. In the first session children were taught to narrate stories using finger puppets.
 
 Describing various ways to use puppets, Shah said, “It can turn serious science projects into fun activities. Children can also narrate stories by using puppets and imitating voices of different animals. It will improve their public speaking skill.”
 
 Stressing the importance of simple activities in development of children, Arpita Munje, an art and craft expert, said, “Such workshops help kids to express their creative side. Art also enhances children’s concentration. Creative activities are very important, especially in the current digital era, where kids have such short attention spans.”
 
 Munje added that parents’ attitude also plays a defining role in the growth of children. Parents must appreciate children’s imagination as it would boost their confidence, she said.
 
 Later, Muhammad Ashfaque, a balloon artist with 18 years of experience, taught the children how to twine and twist balloons into different shapes.
 
 Talking about the importance of such workshops, Shah said, “Now, children can choose the theme of their party and plan the decorations. The kids can create different shapes of balloons. The creative expertise will add a feather to their cap.”
 
 The session concluded with an engaging balloon sword contest between two teams, ‘Baahubali’ and ‘Doraemon’.
 
 At the end of the workshop, Shah asked kids to pick a chit. A good deed was written on every chit and she urged the children to execute the task within a week.
 
 (Reporting by Umabhargavi Addepalli and Nishi Jaiswal)
 
 
