VERNA:   was one of the few constituencies where Congress had maintained its dominance until 2012, when Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco contesting on a GVP ticket broke Congress supremacy to emerge victorious. The constituency earlier formed part of the Loutolim constituency.

 In the run-up to the 2017 elections, it seems voters of this constituency are leaning towards Congress. Nevertheless, former MLA and ex-power minister Aleixio Sequeira could hold the key. Since the grand old party refused its old war horse Sequeira the ticket, the permutation and combinations seem to be fast changing.
 
 Zilla panchayat member Wilfred ‘Babashan’ D’Sa is a new entrant. In fact, he was instrumental in getting Mickky elected during the last elections. He soon fell out with his mentor and challenged him to win against him. He subsequently joined Congress at the insistence of GPCC president Luizinho Faleiro who had assured him the party ticket. Party or not, D’sa had made up his mind to contest the 2017 assembly election.
 
 Nuvem constituency is a catholic dominated segment which will witness a five-cornered battle with sitting   contesting on a Goa-Suraj Party this time around. Vincent Rodrigues of the NCP,   of the Aam Admi Party and independent candidate Dinesh Bandodkar, join the fray.
 
 Incidentally, Mickky has won three elections consecutively but each on a different party ticket. In 2002 it was the UGDP, then in 2007 he won on an NCP ticket and in 2012 victory was his on a   ticket which he revived just prior to elections.
 
 The villages that constitute this assembly segment are Loutolim, Nagoa, Verna , Nuvem, Majorda and Betalbatim with a total electorate of 27,557.
 
 At the previous hustings, Mickky had trounced his opponent Congress’   by a margin of 4,196 votes. 
 
 In the run-up to the election, Wilfred, through social service, has endeared himself to voters and was considered to be on the highway to the legislative assembly, but the scenario is fast-changing says a poll watcher, “After being denie the Congress ticket and the church preaching against him, Alexio is said to be backing Mickky to get back at his party. This is bound to create obstacles for Wilfred.”
 
 At the moment, the Congress candidate is said to be popular in Betalbatim – Mickky’s home town. He represents the villages of Nagoa and Verna in the zilla panchayat and is likely to show a healthy trend in these areas. He will also be expecting the traditional Congress votes from the rest of the constituency to turn the tide in his favour, but with former Congressman throwing his weight behind the Goa Su-Raj party candidate one has wait and watch the extent of damage to Wilfred’s chances.
 
 It is not going to be easy for Mickky either, as he will have to explain his association with the BJP. The talk around the constituency is that defence minister   has convinced his good friend Aleixo to support Mickky to spoil Congress’ chances of winning.
 
 Others say it could be anybody’s game. The educated section of society and silent voters are leaning towards Mariano Godinho, who is highly respected in the area. Godinho, a retired medical officer, worked at Cortalim primary health centre for more than two decades which covered Verna. He has also held additional charge of Loutolim primary health centre. He is likely to have the goodwill of the people here, especially from the ST community which has a huge population. 
 
 Then there is NCP’s Vincent Rodrigues who until recently was with the UGDP. He had earlier contested elections unsuccessfully but is trying his luck again. He is also popular in Nuvem, Nagoa, and Verna but whether his popularity will translate into votes is anybody’s guess.
 
 Congress’ Wilfred as a new face, with a strong base of being a social worker, seems to carry an edge. 
 
 Whether Mickky will overtake his bête noire is to be seen. Similarly, the AAP’s quiet campaign could help them cuts through the vote base.
 
 
