GURUGRAM: A supervisor and a driver of a private security company were arrested on animal cruelty charge after they were found dragging a dog, which was tied to the back of their Bolero, through Sector 58 on Friday.

 In the wee hours of Friday both the accused allegedly tied a dog to their night patrolling vehicle and dragged the animal for several kilometres, injuring it grievously in the process.
 
 It was only when a passerby protested the men stopped their vehicle. Acting on the complaint of the passerby, an FIR was registered at   and the accused were arrrested. 
 
 The complainant, Amit Bhardwaj, a resident of DLF-II area, was in his car with his wife when he spotted the poor animal being dragged by a night patrolling car of a security services. Bharadwaj at once informed the police, who arrested the accused and took custody of the dog. 
 
 In the meantime, Nikhil Mahesh from an NGO called Umeed-The Rehabilitation Center also reached the spot. Mahesh thanked Amit and his wife Vrinda Bharadwaj for saving the dog’s life.
 
 “I received a call at 1am last night regarding detention of security guard and a driver after Vrinda and Amit Bhardwaj witnessed them dragging a dog tied to their car. The dog was tied by his neck to the car and was brutally dragged while the car was being driven at high speed, ” Mahesh wrote in social media.
 
 An FIR has been registered under sections 11, 59, 60 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act against the accused, who have been identified as Himmat Singh and Rajnish, employee of SLV security services. The patrol vehicle of the Security Company has been confiscated. The dog has been handed over to a NGO and is undergoing treatment.
 
 “The arrested duo was produced in a city court, where they were granted bail. The NGO is taking care of the dog. Investigations are on, ” said inspector Rajender Singh, SHO, Badshapur police station. When contaced, the authorised spokesperson for SLV Security said that SLV Security is a socially responsible company which takes pride in its social initiatives and commitments.
 
 “We condemn the incident in regard to animal cruelty in absolute terms. Management has taken stern disciplinary action and terminated the services of persons found involved in the case. This kind of attitude towards animal cruelty may be of the individuals involved in the incidence and not of SLV Security Management,” the spokesperson said.
 
 
