New Delhi: From writing poems to conducting “sting operations” to extorting money and cheating people—Sanjay Tiwari donned many hats to stay afloat. In 2009, his sting showing   collecting money to celebrate their party chief’s birthday had made headlines.

 Tiwari (40), who belongs to Faizabad in UP, quit studies after Class X. He later got married and has two children. He came to Delhi in 1999 and started working as a freelancer for  . He also worked in print and electronic media and learnt to use spy cameras for sting operations. 
 
 According to joint CP (crime) Ravindra Yadav, Tiwari was arrested and charged with extortion after he conducted his first sting operation showing some contractors indulging in the pilferage of LPG cylinders. He tried to blackmail them and extort money by showing them the tapes, cops said. 
 
 After that, Tiwari never looked back and committed back-to-back crimes. It did not take him much time to set up an elaborate “extortion racket”. He was arrested for blackmailing several MPs from Northeast and Jharkhand. In 2011, he posed as a PS to a Union minister and duped two MPs from Northeast. Tiwari has 11 cases of cheating, extortion and impersonation registered against him, said DCP (crime) Madhur Verma.
 
 During his interrogation, he claimed to have closely worked with a magazine editor, with a film director in Mumbai and as a personal secretary to an MP from Arunachal Pradesh wherein he realised that he could make quick money by throwing names around. 
 
 In 2007, Tiwari and his associate had impersonated the personal secretary of a Union minister and demanded money from two MPs. The same year, he was arrested with a camera hidden inside a diary with which he was trying to shoot another “sting operation”.
 
 Tiwari claimed till 2011, he used to run a news portal, www.ujalanews.com. He also identified himself as the chairman of NETV, a television channel. He had contacts in various ministries and easily earned money through fraudulent means. But once there was a change in the government, his earnings had diminished.
 
