 is important to overall health, but too high level of cholesterol can be harmful. High cholesterol can cause narrowed or blocked  . People with diabetes, unfortunately, are more prone to having unhealthy high cholesterol levels, which lead to cardiovascular disease (CVD). By taking measures to control cholesterol, you can reduce the chance of cardiovascular disease and premature death.

 Blood cholesterol is a group of fats also known as lipoproteins; classified as HDL-C, or "good" cholesterol and LDL-C or "bad" cholesterol. Diabetes reduces the levels of good cholesterol and increases the levels of triglyceride and "bad" cholesterol, which elevates the risk of heart disease and stroke. This condition is known as dyslipidemia.
 
 If you have deadly combination of diabetes and dyslipidemia, you are at higher risk of premature   and atherosclerosis. Studies have shown that insulin resistance is linked to diabetic dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis and blood vessel disease. In fact, these conditions can develop even before diabetes is diagnosed.
 
 Studies show a link between insulin resistance and diabetic dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis and blood vessel disease. These conditions can develop even before diabetes is diagnosed. Obesity, a diabetic comorbidity, is also a known risk factor is for dyslipidemia. If you are obese, losing merely 5-10 % weight through physical activity and healthy eating can help improve your cholesterol levels. A regular physical activity will help with your overall diabetes management and improve your cardiovascular health. Avoid other deteriorating factors such as smoking, alcohol and high fat food.
 
 If you have high levels of triglyceride, try to maintain a healthy weight, achieve a good control over your diabetes and most importantly follow your doctor’s prescribed medication. Avoid other deteriorating factors such as smoking, alcohol and high fat food. You should get your cholesterol checked every 5 years or more often if there's a problem.
 
 
 
 
 
