CHANDIGARH: While Punjab intelligence wing and bureau of investigation ( ) are struggling to nab gangsters involved in recent broad-day bank loots as well as assasins of Hindu leaders killed over the last year, instructions have been issued by the police headquarters to re-open and examine all cases involving use of .32 bore and 9 mm weapons in the last five years. 

 The instructions were issued by1988-batch IPS ADGP Rohit Choudhary, who was handpicked by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder to head the law and order wing. 
 
 This is for the first time that such an excercise has been undertaken
 
 The Central Forensic Science Labarotary (CFSL) in Chandigarh had last month found that only one .32 bore revolver was used in three out of four killings of Hindu leaders that rocked Punjab between 2016 and 2017, leaving the   clueless.
 
 "As per the FSL report, the same .32 bore and 9 mm weapons were used in targetted attacks and killings of promiment RSS leaders and   premis. In order to crack these cases, it is desired that all untraced cases of snatching, robberies and killings in the last five years, should be reopened and examined where small wapons of this category have been used" Choudhary's note said.
 
 Range DIGs will personally monitor the identification of these cases and discuss the cases with Choudhary, his note said.
 
 In the same, the senior cop has also asked districts to set up control rooms with a QRT in the wake of bank loots and gangwars.
 
 "The gangster issue has vexed the state for the past some time and has shaken the confidence of common man in the prevailing security environment/ It is there fore desired that all gangsters be aprehneded. A two pronged strategy to coutner the problem is suggested. For all category A gangsters, specail 'anti gangster squads be formed with a GO as nodal officer. For the B category, speical drive to contact their family members should be undertaken to persuade them to return to normal mainstram living with assurance of fair investigation"
 
 He has also sought deployment of force and field training with reserve men and women in police lines immediately for eventualities like chasing gangsters and robbers. According to the fourth point, duty cards will be issued to men patrolling the nakas with problems faced by public in the area.
 
 As part of fifth approach, public committees and negotiation teams will be formed in districts.
 
