Meerut/Lucknow: As fresh rounds of violence continued in   on Wednesday leaving one more dead and several injured, the state government suspended the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police. A total of 24 persons have been arrested for Tuesday’s violence while the district administration has directed telecom companies to suspend internet services in the trouble-torn region.

 CM Aditya Nath Yogi held two rounds of meeting with the principal secretary (home) Arvind Kumar and director general of police (DGP) Sulkhan Singh to take stock of the situation in Saharanpur. Later he issued an appeal asking people to beware of provocative statements and not to fall prey to incitement. “Some people are trying to disturb the peace and harmony in the state and strict action will be initiated against those behind the violence in Saharanpur,” the CM said.
 
 The state government said it would provide Rs 15 lakh as compensation to the family of the man killed in on Tuesday. The injured will be given Rs 50,000 each. On Tuesday evening, shortly after reports of fresh violence came in, the state government directed a four-member team including home secretary Mani Prasad Mishra, ADG (law & order) Aditya Mishra, IG of UP STF Amitabh Yash, to rush to Saharanpur. The officials have been directed to stay put in Saharanpur till normalcy is restored.
 
 DM NP Singh and SSP Subhash Chandra Dubey were suspended on the basis of ADG Mishra’s report which accused the two officers of negligence. Muzaffarnagar SSP Babloo Kumar has been moved to Saharanpur in the same capacity while Agra Development Authority vice-chairman Pramod Kumar Pandey has been sent to the restive district to take charge as the DM. 
 
 This came even as Pradeep Chauhan, a 20-year-old Thakur youth, was shot by unidentified assailants in Saharanpur on Wednesday. He later died. Police, however, claimed that the Thakur youth’s murder “could be a result of personal enmity.” In another case, Nitin Kumar, 25, and Yashpal Singh, 55, were attacked while on their way to a brick kiln for work in Mirzapur village of the district. Nitin Kumar, who was referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College in Meerut, said, “We were going to the brick kiln when more than two dozen men with their faces covered came out of the bushes and began attacking us with sharp-edged weapons.”
 
 Fresh violence had erupted on Tuesday in Saharanpur, which has been witnessing inter-caste clashes since April. Some unidentified persons set fire to at least 12 houses of Thakurs in Shabbirpur village ahead of the arrival of Mayawati there. Police controlled the situation but soon after Mayawati left, unidentified men attacked those returning from the BSP chief’s public meeting in several villages in which one Dalit boy was shot dead while several others were attacked with swords, spears and country-made weapons. Half a dozen grievously injured men, almost all of them Dalits, were referred to Meerut later.
 
 This is the second time that Dubey has been suspended in the past four years. In 2013, he was suspended for failure to control the riots in Muzaffarnagar. He was however later reinstated by the then government. After his posting as SSP Saharanpur last month, his present stint as district police chief too ended with a suspension.
 
 
