MUMBAI: The Bombay high court struck down sexual harassment and   charges against a 26-year-old Dombivli youth, after the girl, who recently turned 18, said they had settled their differences and decided to marry each other. The girl, who was 17 when she lodged the complaint, said she had done it as the families opposed their marriage, since their   did not match. 

 “The allegation in the FIR appears to have been made as the marriage between the parties could not take place,” said a division bench of Justices Ranjit More and Sarang Kotwal. The court was hearing a plea by the youth to quash the FIR. “In any case, the girl today is a major and she has given no objection (to dropping charges). Both the accused youth and the girl have assured (the court) they will get married and therefore do not want to proceed with the FIR. It can, thus, be seen that the matter has been amicably settled between the parties. From perusal of the complaint, it transpires the allegations are totally personal,” observed the judges, adding, “We find no purpose will be served by keeping criminal proceedings pending, except burdening criminal courts, which are already overburdened.”
 
 The youth and girl, who live in the same locality, had fallen in love with each other. Their marriage plans were halted when the families, especially the girl’s mother, objected as their horoscopes did not match. The FIR was registered last year at Vishnu Nagar police station in Dombivli. The youth was charged under provisions of the Indian Penal Code for sexual harassment and criminal intimidation, and under the Information Technology Act for transmitting pictures of children in sexually explicit acts, as well as under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for using a child below 18 for pornographic purposes. If convicted, he faces a jail term of up to five years and a fine of Rs 10 lakh.
 
 In the HC, the youth and girl said they had settled their differences and wished to get married. On a query by the judges, the girl said she had given her consent to quashing the case of her own free will and was not coerced. The girl’s mother, who was in court, said she now had no objections to the marriage.
 
