NAGPUR: If one calls up Jaitunbi Ashfaq Ansari, a former deputy mayor and sitting corporator from Mominpura ward, to discuss a civic issue, chances are her husband Ashfaq will answer the phone. “She’s busy with household work. I am carrying her cell phone,” Ansari told TOI recently. Many residents had a similar experience and said if that at all Jaitunbi takes the call, she hands it to the men in the family to handle the issue.

 Jaitunbi’s case is typical of the way many   public representatives end up being mere faces of their politically-active husbands. A reserved seat for women may have robbed these men of a seat of power, but they work around by using pushing forth their wives and ensure their win while keeping all the strings in own hands.
 
 Another example is BJP corporator Vishakha Maind. When this correspondent tried to contact her, her husband and politically influential local leader Baba Maind attended the call.
 
 Thanks to a 50%  , women may have been able to increase their numeric strength in the  . “But it’s not likely that the quota will ensure women to attain political empowerment in the true sense,” said Baba Maind. “Hardly 20% women   are active,” he said.
 
 “Officials do not pay heed to women corporators. But they cannot do this with male corporators and hence they prove to be more efficient than women regarding development works,” he explained. 
 
 Many woman corporators, on the condition of anonymity, also said they were discriminated against by the civic administration when it comes to allocation of funds for wards represented by them. “The rule has not brought about decentralization of power and gender equality for women corporators. Male counterparts dominate us. They are allotted bigger share of funds for development projects in their wards,” the woman corporators said.
 
 Therefore, it’s the husbands who remain active in the area, hold meetings with residents, address their problems at the NMC office and interact with officials, admitted another former male corporator. Senior corporator Abha Pande said, “Although I have faced several problems through my three terms as a corporator, I have dealt with them boldly all alone.”She said women corporators could only be empowered if their husbands support them in household chores.
 
