AURANGABAD : The city police on Tuesday resorted to lathicharge at several places, arrested 65   and detained 134 for   and indulging in violence. In other parts of Marathwada, too, police had to resort to lathicharge and detain scores of people for   and blocking the roads during the 'chakka jam' agitation called by the  . Some vehicles were also damaged in the region. 

 The agitation was held at 374 spots in the region, with the situation taking a violent turn in Aurangabad city and in Nanded district. The Hingoli district police have detained 550 agitators for blocking the roads.
 
 The agitation was organised to press several demands of the Maratha community, including capital punishment to the Khopardi gang rape culprit and reservation for the community.
 
 All the nine units of police across Marathwada region had denied permission to blocking of roads but the organisers went ahead with the 'chakka jam'. 
 
 In Aurangabad, policemen, including Begumpura police inspector Shaikh Salim and Harsul sub-inspector Anant Tangde, sustained injuries in stone pelting at Harsul T-point. In the incident led to lathicharge by police.
 
 To avoid police action while blocking the roads, the agitators stood and sang the national anthem at areas such as Akashwani signal, Harsul T-point, Cidco bus stand chowk, Mahanubhav ashram chowk and Asegaon phata.
 
 The city police resorted to lathicharge at Harsul T-Point, Akashwani signal and Oasis Chowk at Waluj to disperse the agitators who not only blocked the roads but also tried to manhandle policemen.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, "Offences are being registered at Harsul, Cidco, Jawahar Nagar, Satara, MIDC Waluj and Daultabad police stations. We have detained 134 people under the Maharashtra Police Act and arrested 65 in all these incidents." 
 
 Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Navinchandra Reddy said, "We rounded up 709 agitators for blocking roads. There was agitation at 27 places in our jurisdiction. The police were fully geared to handle any situation. The day went off peacefully in our limits."
 
 In Nanded district, about 260km from here, the agitators pelted stones at state transport buses and a police vehicle. Superintendent of police Sanjay Yenpure said, "We have registered offences at police stations of Nanded rural and Ardhapur, against those who pelted stones at buses and police vehicle." 
 
 The officer said that orders have been issued to the special branch to scan the videographs and identify the miscreants so that they can be arrested.
 
 Nanded range IG Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, "The code of conduct published by the organisers helped police to a great extent. Barring a couple of petty incidents, it was largely a peaceful agitation in our range comprising four districts."
 
 In Hingoli, police detained all the agitators at different places when they tried blocking the roads. Superintendent of police Ashok Morale said, "We have detained 550 agitators under the Maharashtra Police Act for blocking roads."
 
 In contrast to this, the Auranabad rural police allowed road blockades at 27 places, Jalna police at 18 places, Parbhani police at 33 places, Beed police at 84 places, Latur police at 58 places and Osmanabad police at 40 places.
 
 
