The   or Ultra 515 is one of the toughest endurance challenge races in the world, where participants have to complete a 10km ocean swim, over 400 km of cycling, followed by a double marathon (84 km) run – all within three days. The event was recently made popular in India after model and actor   completed the Ultraman Challenge in Florida this weekend. However, Milind is not the only Indian to have earned the title of Ultraman. He was joined by three other Indians – Gurgaon’s long-distance runner  , who is also Soman's training partner, and Kaustubh Radkar and   from Maharashtra. The Gurgaon resident, who has completed two Ironman events before this, finished the Ultraman in Florida on Sunday evening, earning yet another title for himself.

  Abhishek, who quit his corporate job three years ago to focus on endurance race events, started training for the Ultraman barely a year ago. Speaking to us from Florida, he says, "I first learnt about Ultraman last year when I was going for my second Ironman event in South Africa. People told me it is really tough, and the distances to be covered are three times than that of the Ironman Triathlon."
 
  
  Abhishek Mishra and Milind Soman at the Ultraman Florida. They completed the challenge together
 
 
  Abhishek adds, "You need to have an Ironman title to participate in the Ultraman. I registered for it along with Milind, who introduced me to Ultraman in March 2016."
 
  Abhishek says the biggest challenge while preparing for the Ultraman was balancing the various runs and events he undertakes in India, as they take a toll on the body, leaving little time to train. He elaborates, "I had to compete in many half-marathons and runs in India, including a 500-km run from Delhi to Lucknow. All these events build your basic endurance, but they are not the focused training you need for an event like Ultraman. They take a toll on your body and leave very little time and energy to train."
 
  
  
 
  As per Abhishek, less time to train and slow progress in the months leading up to the main event caused him to almost drop the idea of competing. "It was December, with only two months to go, and I felt I wasn’t prepared. It’s a prestigious event and you represent your country there. I thought I'd be letting people down so I almost decided to not compete." He says it was Milind’s encouragement and insistence that kept him going. "I know it will sound very melodramatic, but Milind has been like a teacher to me. He used to encourage me whenever I felt like giving up, and I owe him a lot," he says.
 
  
  
 
 
  The event itself was quite gruelling for him, particularly the swim leg, which is the weakest of Abhishek’s skills. He tells us, "I learnt swimming only 18 months ago. My technique isn’t that good and 10km is a big distance for a novice like me. So, that was tough. In fact, even the second day – where you have to cycle 276km on the Florida terrain – was very taxing. I had assumed it would be a flat course, but there were so many steep climbs and hills that it became hard to manage. Luckily, I finished the leg just 15 minutes before the cut-off time of 6 hours."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Barely 16km before the finish Line, Abhishek suffered a nasty fall trying to avoid traffic and suffered a foot injury which almost ended his race prematurely. He tells us, "I was in the middle of some traffic and waving to the cars so that they would keep some gap but one car probably didn’t see me. In trying to avoid that, I swerved off the road, twisting my ankle and falling down. I hurt my jaw and the shin, and had blood coming out of my leg and my mouth too. At that time, I had tears in my eyes because I thought my race was over. People advised me to go to the hospital, but I just couldn’t not finish so close to the end. So, I took some painkillers, stuffed a cloth in my mouth to stop the bleeding and finished the last 16km."
 
  He might have evolved from being an Ironman to an Ultraman, but Abhishek has no plans to rest just yet. He has his sights set on mountain peaks now. "I have done water and land. Now, it’s time to conquer a mountain. If all goes according to plan, my next project will be an expedition to climb the  ," he says.
 
 
 
