KOLKATA: Filmmaker Suman Ghosh on Friday uploaded a trailer of ' ', his documentary on  , drawing angry reactions from   (CBFC) chairperson  . The trailer, notably, did not have any of the four words/phrases that the CBFC had wanted beeped. 

 The Nobel laureate had earlier quipped that the film, thanks to the censorship controversy, would surely find more viewers than it would have ordinarily done. On Friday, it took just minutes for it to go viral. Viewers were discussing how, in the trailer, Sen was talking about his "peculiar relationship" with the World Bank and insisting he "never liked that organisation very much". Others were drawn to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's description of Sen as a "philosopher, social scientist and social activist" and Paul Samuelson, the 1970 Nobel prize winner in economics from MIT, saying "ideologically he was more Left".
 
 Soon, news of the upload caught Nihalani's attention. He told TOI that uploading an uncertified trailer for public exhibition was a "mistake". He also called Ghosh "manipulative" for using a controversy with the CBFC to gain publicity. Ghosh retorted, saying that it was "beneath his dignity" to respond to such "ridiculous comments". The director said he was ready to engage in an argument with Nihalani if he said something "substantial". 
 
 "The Cinematograph Act clearly states that certification is required for public exhibition," said Nihalani. "When a trailer is uploaded online, isn't it being watched by people in buses, stations and trains? If anybody is uploading uncertified content without certification that can be viewed in public, it is a mistake." 
 
 Nihalani said that such a problem had cropped up when a trailer of 'Mohalla Assi' (the banned movie about the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and Mandal Commission implementation) had surfaced online. An FIR was filed against the maker as the leaked trailer had shown a character using abusive language. "Finally, the court took action," the board chief said.
 
 On being informed that uncertified films and trailers abound on social media, Nihalani said every portal has a method of "self-censorship". "People are taking this risk on a public platform. But even Netflix and Amazon want certificates before screening. In YouTube, if 50 people complain that a film or trailer uses abusive content, they remove it," Nihalani said.
 
 He, however, said he was absolutely sure that it was wrong on the part of the hall authorities to have screened an uncertified documentary. "This is wrong, and action has to be taken. How can the hall authorities allow such uncertified content to be shown? According to the Cinematograph Act, this is not right," he said.
 
 
