CHENNAI: The image of   reading Rumi’s poetry before going out to bat against England in the World Cup doesn’t quite fit the standard template of a modern-day cricketer. But Mithali is different - even as she is the best batswoman India has ever produced - the 35-year-old former Bharatnatyam dancer has a deep interest in art.

 Reading is a habit that Mithali has cultivated since she was a kid and it helps her switch off from cricket. “I think it helps me focus and calms down the nerves. When you are reading, you go into a different world altogether. It also helps me switch off and not have any pre-conceived notions when I walk out to bat. You don’t want to focus so much on the game before batting that you start overanalyzing when you go out there,” Mithali told TOI on the sidelines of the   at a city hotel here on Saturday.
 
 Never afraid to speak her mind, Mithali had also created a stir during the World Cup when she took on a journalist asking her about her favourite male cricketer. “Do you ask a male cricketer who his favourite woman cricketer is?” she asked, drawing both positive and negative responses in the social media.
 
 “It’s not something I wanted to do. I just felt the platform wasn’t the right one to ask that question. I believe everybody has his or her favourites and it’s not a bad question to ask. But that was not the platform because it was a World Cup press conference for women’s cricket and the journalist made it trivial by asking about men’s cricket,” she said.
 
 Following the success of the women’s   (BBL) and the growing rise in popularity of women’s cricket in India, there has been talk of a women’s IPL. “To start something of that nature, it requires a lot of other things like enough franchises, pool of players. It is something the BCCI needs to look into. It cannot happen immediately but maybe 2-3 years down the line. If it happens, it will only improve the domestic structure and standard of the women’s game,” Mithali, who is the leading run-scorer in women’s ODIs, said.
 
 There have also been reports that the Indian men’s and women’s teams could be playing double-header T20s when they tour   early next year. The right-hander believes it will be a huge boost for women’s cricket if the plan materialises. “Even in Australia in 2016, both the men’s and women’s teams played on the same day. We need to make sure there is a regular following for women’s cricket. The next big tour is to South Africa. We are playing the T20s and so are the men. It will be a great initiative and will only help women’s cricket.”
 
 Despite the initiatives, the sceptics still believe it’s difficult to market women’s cricket, unlike women’s tennis or football. Mithali feels it’s the lack of television coverage of women’s cricket in earlier years that has pushed the game back.
 
 “If you talk about women’s tennis or any other women’s sport, it was on television right from the start. Women’s cricket, on the other hand, was never on television. It only started being televised in 2009 when the ICC took it up to show the matches. That’s when awareness about the game started to spread. If women’s cricket was televised right from the 1970s, I’m sure it wouldn’t have taken so long for people to warm up to the game.”
 
