HYDERABAD: With free left-turns at various junctions across the city failing to serve their purpose, traffic cops have now devised a new strategy - extending the distance of the barricaded stretches. 

 There are about 150 free left-turns that have been provided by traffic personnel who have barricaded a lane or even half a lane for motorists for the purpose. While these free left-turns are aimed at reducing traffic congestion, they become useless during peak hours as motorists who are headed straight, queueing up at the junction, resulting in blocking the free-left turn.
 
 Many hapless motorists, who do not need to wait for green signal and who could happily driven away using the left turn, are forced to wait along with other motorists until the signal turns green and motorists heading straight make their way. Some motorists even block the turn when they have to take a right at the junction. 
 
 In light of the issue, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) A V   told TOI that they have decided to extend the length of barricading of free turns to 500 metres or even up to 1 km on both sides of the road. 
 
 For example, the free left-turn at the   junction has barricades for more than 100 metres. These barricades would be extended up to   on   road and also up to 500 metres or 1 km beyond Taj Deccan towards the   road.
 
 "Once these free-left turn barricades are extended between 500 metres to 1 km, motorists taking the left-turn lane cannot halt, but have to drive almost up to one km and take a U turn to come back again at the junction from adjacent side of the road. They will not be able switch lanes as barricades would be put up all along," Ranganath said.
 
 Traffic and transport experts said traffic police should also crack the whip on those who block free left-turns. "A sustained drive on the lines of the drink driving should be taken up to discipline motorists who are blocking the free-left turns," said former director-general, Engineering Staff College of India, S Nagabhushan Rao.
 
