PUNE: Reshma Bhosale, a sitting Nationalist   (NCP) corporator, who shifted her loyalties at the last minute and got a ticket from   (BJP), will have to fight the civic election as an independent candidate, following a directive by the Bombay high court. 

 A petition objecting to the BJP’s move to allow her to fight the election on their party’s symbol was filed in the court which heard the matter and gave the order on Wednesday.
 
 Congress candidate  , who had filed the petition, said the court's decision has proved that the civic body had worked in favour of BJP. “I had pointed out the flaws in the nomination. Despite serious issues with Bhosale’s form, the civic official including the municipal commissioner, turned a blind eye. Now, the court’s order has vindicated my stand,” he said.
 
 Reshma, wife of NCP’s MLC Anil Bhosale, is an aspirant from the ward number 7. She was refused candidature by NCP as the party leaders claimed that others should get a chance to fight the civic election. Upset with NCP’s move, Reshma went over to the BJP at the last moment and secured a ticket. 
 
 The NCP started its poll campaign by blaming the Bhosale family as turncoats. NCP leader   had said that his party has sent a notice to Bhosale and will decide about his membership.
 
 Reshma’s nomination form landed in a controversy during the scrutiny process by election officials. Her nomination form listed her as an NCP candidate while her AB form said she was from the BJP.
 
 The matter was escalated to the state election commission by municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar, which ruled in Bhosale’s favour. After the order, she was allowed to contest on the BJP’s symbol. Bahirat’s petition challenged Kumar’s and the election commission’s action. 
 
 “The court has directed that while accepting the nomination the aspirant was independent and the process to submit the form was over. So now she cannot be treated as an official candidate of any party. The party symbol should not be given to her,” Abhijit Kulkarni, counsel for PMC in the high court, told TOI.
 
 Kumar said the administration will not be able to comment immediately. Bhosale was not available for her comment.
 
 
