BHOPAL: Good news for   attending coaching classes. They will get flat 50% discount on   (BCLL) buses, a parent company of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). Besides, the BCLL has also proposed to introduce transferable bus passes on the lines of metro rail cards in other cities. 

 Women and students attending coaching classes have been included in list of beneficiaries. Till now, the benefit of monthly pass was for government employees and those below poverty line or covered under various government schemes, said BMC corporator Keval Mishra. He was recently appointed as one of the directors of BCLL.
 
 There are an estimated 10,000 people, who are expected to benefit from the new scheme. “Students who take a drop year to prepare for entrance examinations will stand to benefit from the move. It has been a long-standing demand,” he said. Previously, the BCLL did not provide the benefit to students without school or college identity cards.
 
 To augment revenue of public transport service, the BCLL will introduce pre-paid cashless cards that can be swiped to pay. Initially, the BCLL is offering a top-up of Rs 240 (for a recharge of Rs 200) on the card. Unlike the currently used ‘mayor pass’ the new pre-paid card will be transferable.
 
 Both benefits will coincide with launch of midi-Buses to be launched this month. Providing improved connectivity between fast developing colonies in Bhopal, the BCLL has procured 40 midi buses. Many of the routes are not properly served under the BRTS corridor and are proving viable for large buses. The 35-seater buses will be introduced along existing BRTS corridor and ply in 10 new clusters. 
 
 Passengers commuting between Sanskar Upvan (Kolar Road) will get a direct connectively to Nadra near Bhopal railway station, some 20 km away. Other routes will connect Bhauri to Halalpur, Halalpur to AIIMS Bhopal, Islamnagar to railway station and far flung Barrai to railway station, among others.
 
 Route from Sanskar Upvan to Nadra bus stand and Halalpur to AIIMS Bhopal would have more than 15 buses each day. 
 
