NEW DELHI: The government has serious reservations about giving in writing reasons for invoking the `national security' clause to reject a lawyer's name recommended for appointment as a high court or   judge as doing so could jeopardise an advocate's reputation or career.

 Sources said writing down reasons under the national security clause, which would be most likely invoked against a lawyer recommended for appointment to a HC or the SC, could harm an individual if recorded reasons detailing personal antecedents come out in public domain.
 
 The divergence of opinion is holding up the finalisation of Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) for the   despite the fact that the government and the collegium have reconciled their differences on other sticking points.
 
 “We will tell the collegium that the government is ready to show all the material contained in files of intelligence and investigating agencies to justify why such sensitive clause is being invoked,“ sources said.
 
 Except for this difference over how the particular clause will be invoked, the Centre is satisfied that its persistent effort to convince the CJI and four most senior SC judge who comprise the collegium has led to the inclusion of “national security“ clause in the MoP for judicial appointments. This will be the first time that the clause will be relevant for judicial appointments since the 1990s, when the SC through two judgements wrested from the Union government the power to select judges and entrusted it to the collegium. SC sources indicated that sharing material facts rather putting down reasons for invoking the national security ground may not become a sticking point.
 
 In October 2015, the SC struck down the Parliament enacted   and revived the collegium system.However, in December 2015, the SC had entrusted redrafting of the MoP , criticised for lack of transparency , to the Centre and ordered it cast afresh the procedure in consultation with the CJI, who would act as per the unanimous view of the collegium.
 
 For a year, the MoP was stuck over the `national security clause', which the judges felt gave an unqualified veto to the Centre to strike down any name recommended by the collegium. The Centre had argued with the collegium that this clause would be invoked in very rare cases where it had material to show ineligibility of the nominee for the judge's post.
 
 The MoP , cleared by the collegium and sent to law minister  , accepted inclusion of national security clause but specified that the government must reduce the objections under this clause in writing. It is a common practice for last 20 years that if the collegium reiterated a name, which has been rejected by the government for any reason, it would bind the government to appoint that person as a judge. The MoP fell back on this general clause in case of national security aspect. It said that the collegium, if not convinced by the reasons, would reiterate the name to ensure the government makes the appointment.
 
