PUNE: The   to the 750-tonne garbage processing unit in Ramtekdi-Hadapsar intensified on Saturday with the NCP’s local corporators forcibly trying to stop the ongoing work and staging agitation against the facility.

 Yogesh Sasane, who spearheaded the Saturday’s agitation, said the opposition to the unit would be intensified in the future. “There is logic behind the opposition. The garbage plants installed in the city so far have led to serious health hazards to local people. We do not want any more garbage projects in the Hadapsar area. The city’s half of the garbage is either being processed or dumped here. People are already facing health issues. The situation will worsen if more units come up,” Sasane said.
 
 He pointed out that the plant was coming up in the industrial area marked for industries and not for garbage processing unit. The people would come to streets to oppose the unit, he added.
 
 Officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s solid waste management department said stressed there was no plan to stop the work. They would continue with the ongoing work because the project had received all the necessary permissions.
 
 “The administration has taken the precautionary measures. The latest technology will be used in the project, which will not lead to any problems to citizens,” an official claimed.
 
 The   leaders had planned to commence the work of the garbage processing unit in the presence of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis a couple of months ago. But the plan was dropped later.
 
 The waste-to-energy project coming up on a plot of 13-acre recently received the necessary permissions from the government and  . The civic administration then started the basic work pertaining to the construction of a boundary wall of the plot.
 
 Ever since the project was approved, the local corporators had been opposing it claiming that it was near residential areas, school and would lead to serious health issues. The corporators pointed out that Ramtekdi-Hadapsar area was already processing over 800 tonnes of city’s garbage daily. The new unit should now come up in other parts, they stressed.
 
