PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind and chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday called upon the newly appointed VCs and pro-VCs of universities in the state to work for the restoration of state’s old glory in the field of higher education by raising the academic standards and developing the institutions as per the aspirations and needs of students.

 Addressing a meeting of the VCs and pro-VCs at Raj Bhawan, the CM said even though Nalanda and Vikramshila universities had been our rich heritage in ancient times, Patna University was also one of the best universities in the country in initial years. Studying in Patna Science College was considered a matter of pride for students. We must try to restore those golden days for boosting the higher education in our state, he said.
 
 He said universities would no longer face problem of regular payment of salaries, if the universities maintained financial discipline and submitted utilization certificates in time. If the state government is making available to the universities a grant of Rs 3,400 crore, the universities must also show tangible results in the field of education.
 
 The annual budget on education has been enhanced from Rs 4,200 crore to Rs 25,000 crore just for ensuring its development, Nitish said, adding the government was also giving greater incentives for promoting girls’ education in the state. 
 
 Nitish said free Wi-Fi facility was being extended to all the colleges and necessary preparations were afoot to implement university management system by making the working of the universities completely online. He assured the VCs of all government cooperation in the growth and development of higher education in the state.
 
  Kovind pleaded for strict adherence to academic calendar by ensuring timely admission, examination, results and award of degrees at the convocations. All these activities should be online to avoid delay and to make the system transparent.
 
 He pointed hard-earned money of the people of this state was drained out to other states due to mass exodus of students for higher education. If the talented students are retained in the state, the money saved could well be utilized in strengthening the state’s economy.
 
 Education minister Ashok Chaudhary, Delhi University’s former VC Deepak Nayar, Jhansi-based R L P Central Agricultural University chancellor Punjab Singh, principal secretary to governor E L S N Bala Prasad and education department’s principal secretary R K Mahajan also addressed the meeting.
 
 The VCs of Patna, Magadh, L N Mithila, B R A Bihar, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur, Jaya Prakash, K S D Sanskrit, Veer Kunwar Singh and Nalanda Open universities presented the road map of development of their respective universities in the next three years.
 
 
