PUNE: Senior cabinet minister and RSS veteran   on Monday said the state go vernment would survive with the support of 20 MLAs from different parties if the   withdrew support to it.

 Patil, the number two in the state cabinet, told reporters at Miraj (Sangli), “The government will complete its five-year term. As many as 20 MLAs from the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress will come forward to support the government to prove the majority .“
 
 Patil's statement assumes significance amid the buzz that the BJP is trying to engineer defection in the Shiv Sena in case Uddhav Thackeray decides to withdraw support from the   government. Also, he is a close aide of BJP's national president   and a part of inner RSS circle.
 
 “Uddhav Thackeray is a matured leader and I don't think he will take any drastic step. There are differences between the BJP and Sena, but they will not result into fall of the government. If such a situ ation arises, we are ready with the list of friends who will help the government to survive,“ said Patil.
 
 He refused to elaborate on his statement and challenged Sharad Pawar to make efforts to pull down the Fadnavis go vernment. “Instead of making statements, Pawar must dare to pull down this government and we shall show our strength,“ said Patil.
 
 The Shiv Sena reacted sharply to Patil's statement.“If the BJP wants to engineer defection in the Sena, it will have to take away at least 42 MLAs from our party , which is impossible. The anti-defection law states two-third of MLAs have to defect from a party . The BJP is definitely trying to play this trick. But it will not succeed. This shows the thought of the BJP leaders on democracy,“ said Shiv Sena MLC and party spokesperson Neelam Gorhe.
 
 She added that it was up to people of the state to decide on the BJP's politics to stick to the power.
 
 BJP workers protest outside office
 
 Pune: BJP workers on Monday agitated outside the party's office on   demanding that money collected by the party during interviews of aspiring candidates be returned. The protesters displayed a banner condemning the party's failure to give them tickets.
 
 The agitation forced guardian minister Girish Bapat to talk with them and convey that they will get back their money.
 
 Omkar Kadam, a protester, said he had written to the city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale.“We were told to deposit money during the interviews. I had deposited Rs 11,200 when I gave an interview seeking candidature. Like me, many more were shocked when tickets were given to rank outsiders. We never imagined that the party leaders would do this. Bapat assured us that the money will be returned after February 24,“ Kadam said.
 
 Disappointment was out in the open on the final day of the submission of nominations when workers protested outside the party office and attempted to throw ink on Gogawale's photograph.
 
