NAGPUR: Nagpur University (NU) information scientist  , on whose appointment some organizations had raised objections, has not only been given clean chit but also promoted to professor grade by the university.

 Last year, the state higher education department had set up a one-member panel to enquire into allegations of ‘illegal appointment’ of Prakashe by some organizations. The panel submitted its report and gave clean chit while the complainants said they were never heard by the panel nor informed about its report. 
 
 Besides, her promotion letter too led to high drama, which brought the development to light, in the VC office on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 On March 9, 2017, NU received a letter from the office of state higher education director Dhanraj Mane regarding Prakashe’s promotion. The letter mentioned professor (information scientist) as the new post. But, the NU issued letter with ‘professor’ in the brackets. This was opposed by Prakashe and she moved the vice-chancellor’s office to have the letter revised on Tuesday.
 
 By the evening, Prakashe had her way as the VC told TOI it was a ‘typographical error’ and has been revised. 
 
 University insiders said Prakashe’s case was the lone example across the state where an information scientist, a non-teaching post, has been converted into a teaching one. “Only posts such as director of Adult Education, or Physical Education are considered teaching posts as per UGC norms. NU information scientist is alone in the state in enjoying privilege of a teaching post,” they said. 
 
 The organizations that had complained about her appointment claimed that about 15 days back they had sent a reminder to deputy director of higher and technical education regarding the probe. “The government had informed us that an inquriy has been initiated. But, we didn’t hear anything after that. We came to know about the clean chit and promotion from media,” they said.
 
 Prakashe refused to comment and referred the query to the vice-chancellor SP Kane. Kane confirmed both the developments regarding Prakashe. “It’s a matter between the government and the officer. But nothing wrong was found in her appointment. She has been promoted under a particular provision in professor grade. She was entitled to get the promotion. Due process was followed by the university and the government,” he said.
 
 On July 21, 2016, TOI had reported that then director of Vasantrao Naik Government Institute of Social Sciences Bhau Daydar would be conducting an inquiry into allegations against Prakashe. He was entrusted with the task by the department after former   director  , who was earlier conducting the inquiry, retired. 
 
 Daydar, who is also   (NSS) coordinator, confirmed that Prakashe’s appointment was found in order. “I verified the documents provided by the university and fowarded them along with my report to the government (director of technical education) about four months back,” he said. 
 
 Director of higher education Dhanraj Mane’s cellphone was switched off when TOI tried to reach him. 
 
