NAGPUR: The activists of social organization Janakrosh has levelled allegations against Hudkeshwar police at a press conference at   bhavan on Thursday for shielding   city president and Nagpur South MLA Sudhakar Kohale in a case of land grabbing in which High court has issued an Ad-interim relief to three persons named as accused in the FIR while one is still at large. Kohale and police have separately refuted the charges levelled against them as baseless.

 Janakrosh representatives claimed that Kohale had used his political clout to usurp 1,000 sq feet plot of Devnagar housing cooperative society on the pretext of purchasing a plot (number 201E) from Ashok Jain who has been made an accused in the case now. The original plot admeasuring 2,200 sq feet was purchased by Kohale for Rs1.11 lakhs in 2011. Ashok Jain had purchased the same plot from one  , secretary of the cooperative housing society, in 1988.
 
 It was another 1,000 sq feet adjoining piece of land (number 201 D) which Kohale allegedly usurped, as per Janakrosh, by preparing a questionable correction deed in 2011, subsequent to the agreement to sale, by projecting his cousin Pandhari Kadu as   Jain before the registrar in presence of witnesses Ashok’s son Sachin and their employee Manoj Raut. It was on the basis of this correction deed, Janakrosh claimed that Kohale had prepared a sale deed in his and wife Vaishali’s name. 
 
 Apart from Ashok, offences of fraud and criminal conspiracy has been registered against Kadu, Sachin and Raut at Hudkeshwar police station after Janakrosh advocate Tarun Parmar approached magistrate court under section 156 (3) of Criminal procedure code (CrPC). After session court had refused anticipatory bails to the accused in the case, father-son duo and Kadu had approached High court which would now hear the matter after summer vacation.
 
 Advocate Tarun Parmar, secretary and legal adviser of the social group, said that Kohale had prepared a so-called misleading correction deed in 2011 claiming that the measurement of the plot (201 E) purchased by him was erroneously entered in the agreement-to-sale document as 2,200 square feet instead of actual 3,200 square feet to serve his vested interest. “Kohale misused his power in the office as a trustee of Nagpur improvement trust (NIT) to issue Regularization letter (RL) in his favour after the fake correction deed was prepared,” he said. “Police should have made Kohale a co-accused in the case but they are not acting as per the law despite the applications,” said Parmar.
 
 Moreshwar Ghadge, another activist of Janakrosh, said that Kohale had even used a fake   tax receipt (which is of Ganesh nagar in Nandanvan) to formalize the sale-deed in his and wife’s name. “Kohale had also furnished false information to election commission in his affidavit which we have already pointed out through our complaints to state and national level,” he said.
 
 Kohale, speaking to  , said that he is being dragged into controversy unnecessarily when he is one of the victims of the fraud and not a perpetrator. “I am going to file defamation against the activists,” he said. “Ghadge is my political rival who is trying to malign my image,” said the BJP MLA. 
 
 Senior PI Sunil Jhawade of Hudkeshwar police station said that prima facie there is no concrete evidence against Kohale to act against him.
 
