LUCKNOW:  , his two deputies,   and Dinesh Sharma, and 44 ministers took oath of office in the presence of Prime Minister  , BJP chief   and a multitude of invitees at the sprawling Smriti Upvan in Lucknow on Sunday .

 Party president Amit Shah's imprimatur was palpable in the selection of his confidantes, Shrikant Sharma, Siddharth Nath Singh and Dinesh Sharma, who had taken charge of Shah's ambitious membership campaign. Maurya too is a Shah favourite: he was given a   ticket and made UP BJP chief at the cost of the claims of many wellknown names.
 
 However, home minister Rajnath Singh's son, Pankaj Singh, failed to find place in the Yogi ministry , an omission that appeared striking because the grandson of former CM Kalyan Singh and the son of Lalji Tandon made the cut. Sandeep Singh got a minister of state rank, while Ashutosh Tandon got a cabinet berth .
 
 All “outsiders“ were brought in and nominated at the instance of Shah, and all are ministers now. Both Shrikant Sharma and Siddharth Nath Singh were office-bearers in Central BJP and both were elected MLAs for the first time.
 
 Sources said Yogi addressed party workers, telling them not to make any brash or thoughtless comments, and advised them to declare their known sources of income within a fortnight.
 
 At a press conference, the CM promised a regime that would never engage in discrimination amid concerns about the orientation of his saffron regime. He also pledged to fulfil all election promises in the spirit of “sabka saath, sabka vikas“. Portfolios of the new ministers are likely to be announced on Monday .
 
 The 46-member strong Yogi ministry , including the two deputy CMs, comprise 24 “for ward“ castes, 14 OBCs, five Dalits and two Jats. It has one Muslim and one Sikh member each.
 
 A 10-second conversation between Prime Minister Modi and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, who whispered into his ears, had all present wondering what was exchanged.
 
 Adityanath Yogi, as he called himself while taking oath, was the first to be sworn in as UP's 21st chief minister and at 44, he's the second youngest after Akhilesh Yadav in 2012. Following Yogi were his deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and 22 cabinet ministers.
 
 Ten of them have been ministers in the past -Suresh Khanna, Surya Pratap Shahi, Swami Prasad Maurya, Rajesh Agrawal, Dharmapal Singh, Laxmi Narain Chaudhary , Ramapati Shastri, Satish Mahana, Rajendra Pratap Singh alias Moti Singh and Nandgopal Nandi. The rest of 12 cabinet ministers are first-timers.
 
 Among BJP bigwigs present were LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, besides CMs of BJPor its allies-ruled states including Devendra Fadnavis, Shivraj Chauhan, Raman Singh and N Chandra Babu Naidu.
 
 
