PUNE: After failing to join the police force, a 31-year-old unemployed man allegedly stole a constable’s belt and a cap along with a key ring with Pune police logo from a cobbler in Shivajinagar on Friday with an intention to make quick money after dressing up as a cop.

 However, before he could succeed with his plan, he was nabbed by the Sahakarnagar police. “We have arrested Rahul Subhash Jagtap of Indapur and have recovered a constable’s black belt and a cap along with a key ring with the Pune police logo from him,” police said.
 
 Deepak Nikam, senior inspector of the Sahakarnagar police station, said Jagtap has completed an ITI course and was looking to join the police force. “However, he failed to make the cut and has been unemployed since then,” he added.
 
 The officer said Jagtap came to Pune in search of work on Friday. “For some reason, he visited Shivajinagar police headquarters where he saw a cobbler selling key rings and caps used by constables sitting on the premises. He diverted the cobbler’s attention and stole a belt, a cap and a key ring from him,” he said. 
 
 The stolen belt belonged to constable Sandeep Gaikwad who had given his shoes and belt to the cobbler for polishing. “Thereafter, he went to a shop next to that of the cobbler to place an order for casting of the number ‘7426’, which he wanted to attach to the stolen belt,” Nikam said.
 
 However, a policeman passing from Pune-Satara Road in the Balajinagar area became suspicious after watching his movements. “After noticing the belt in possession of Jagtap, he took him to the police station where he spilled the beans,” Nikam said.
 
 Jagtap is unemployed and was in need of money to support his family. “He searched for work at different companies and offices for many days after his unsuccessful bid to join the police force, but nobody hired him. This is when he came up with the idea of   people by posing as a cop. To succeed with his plan, he stole all the items from the cobbler,” Nikam added.
 
 
