It happened in Mumbai. Two of my favourite high-octane superstars (both restaurateurs and passionate globetrotting foodies) dined with me at   (IHINY). When the Sri Lankan beauty and brilliant actress   walked in on her pink, diamante encrusted stilettos, her wide smile lit up all three floors of IHINY.  , whose restaurant had been crowned Asia’s best (three years in a row), had flown in from Bangkok for a day to receive the prestigious ‘Hello Hall Of Fame’ award. The multi-talented powerhouse of creativity (he’s currently working on scripts for an international television channel) squeezed in time to dine with us, as did the Bollywood superstar in the midst of her multiple big banner film shoots and brand ambassador commitments for high profile international brands. Not only is Jacqueline a partner in one of Asia’s top restaurants in Colombo but also is set to open her very own Thai restaurant with her best friend Mishali, in Mumbai. Jacqueline was on a vegan diet that day. Our review follows.

 
 
 This Bandra restaurant replaces the three-floored French hair dressing salon. A community table on the ground level. A long bar and seating on the first floor (where we dined) and alfresco, plant-filled top floor. Red sofas, yellow carpets and a narrow staircase (and lift) connecting the floors.
 
 
 
 That neon-coloured amuse-bouche of mini-bagel with cream cheese (Jacqueline is holding in the photo and loved it) immediately alerted us that this was going to be Mumbai’s version of New York. From bagels to the finale of s’mores, we tried it all. Unique, fleshy and innovative Pulled Cumin Jackfruit Taco paired with sour cream, red cabbage and sparkled with fresh salsa. From their ‘Clean Food’ menu, Jacqueline enjoyed the well-seasoned Quinoa and Beetroot Salad and the lightly tossed mushroom dish. 
 
 Tasty and well-made grilled fish, Gray’s inspired, plump juicy ‘Recession hot dogs’ with a side of papaya shake. Ask for S’mores, toasted marshmallows, seasonal berries on a cracker. The intense, velvety Mr Daniel’s Chocolate mousse in a bowl came up tops.
 
 
 
 We are hardcore New-York buffs and missed too many of our favourite New York staples (from Pastrami sandwich and pizzas to cronuts). That apart, the execution of many of the other dishes was off-kilter and sometimes, quite sloppy. Overcooked Jerk Chicken, Peri Peri Prawns were medicinal in taste. Overfried balls of chicken, overpriced flavoured popcorn lacked flavour. 
 
 
 
 This three-floored ambitiously named ‘It Happened In New York’ has happened in Mumbai (in more ways than one). New York’s ‘melting pot’ theme has given them freedom to serve up a rambling multi-cuisine menu. Even though many NYC staples are missing, this casual eatery is still attracting attention because its diners aren’t epicures looking for gourmet fare. It’s more for those looking for drinks (good craft cocktails) and food, which promises comfort with a bit of spin. A calorie-laden, fry-happy (clean eating section too), reliably mobbed feeding ground, which is not necessarily New York but is fun!
 
 PS: As a rule, my assistant books under a fake name (so I can objectively check out the restaurant and pay my bill. It was `12,941 today). So, I was very surprised when the charming young owners Manashwi and Aastha Gupta suddenly walked in. On quizzing them, it turned out that they’d seen Jacqueline and Gaggan on their closed circuit security TV monitor and so came by to greet them. The perils of dining with superstars…
 
