Madurai: Forest department officials have proposed to limit vehicular traffic this year to the Sorimuthu Ayyanar temple situated inside the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) for the annual Aadi Ammavasi festival. The Tirunelveli district administration and KMTR convened review meetings on Tuesday ahead of the festival with officials from various government departments and environmental NGOs. 

 Considering the fact that nearly 1.5 lakh people assemble inside the forest areas for three days surrounding Aadi Ammavasi on July 23, the eco system was expected to suffer exhaustive damage due to human intervention. In order to prevent air pollution, all two-wheelers have to be stopped at Papanasam check-post from where pilgrims have been urged to take public transport to the temple. Vans, autorickshaws and trucks going to the temple have to return to Papanasam Tana for parking after leaving pilgrims at the temple. No vehicular movement will be allowed inside the forest after 6 pm and vehicles violating the norms will be penalised. During the meeting, general manager of Tirunelveli division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation was asked to operate adequate number of buses, which are in good condition, to the temple. 
 
 Pilgrims will not be allowed to carry plastic bags or items inside the forest. Pet animals are not allowed due to the presence of wild animals and pilgrims will also not be allowed to camp inside the forest. The temple management was urged to maintain the temple area neat and tidy. Conservator of Forests and field director of KMTR, A Venkatesh, said that the department would deploy a 200-member team consisting of forest staff from KMTR, Ambasamuthiram, Kalakkad, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari forest divisions, volunteers and village forest committee members to carry out forest safety and eco development works during the festival days. “We appeal to pilgrims to reduce their stay inside the forest area and offer their prayers without polluting Tamirabarani river, the water source of five districts down south”, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Tirunelveli district administration held a meeting with revenue and police department for organising the festival. District collector Sandeep Nanduri who presided said that local administration at Vickramasingapuram should take steps to provide drinking water and toilet facilities at the temple area. Temporary water tanks and mobile toilets should be set up. Adequate ambulances and medical facilities should be deployed and the zone must be plastic-free. 
 
 Environmentalist M Mathivanan from ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Manimutharu, said that prolonged stay of pilgrims, open defecation and indiscriminate littering of food items and garbage inside the forest area were major threats to the forest eco-system. “District administration and forest department are coming out with a lot of norms to pilgrims and it will be great if these are strictly implemented”, he added. 
 
 
