It's that time of the year when love is in the air; when lovebirds everywhere amble together expressing their love. But the big question is how do you do that? With D-day approaching, the hunt for the perfect gift to woo your partner has begun. Even the local gift stores are busy stocking up the usual mushy-mushy products. But, why not try a different approach on 
 ? How about gifting something naughty, erotic or sensual this Valentine's to your sweetheart.
 
  "Although teddy bears holding hearts remain our hottest selling product for Valentine's Day, but at the same time, we have observed a niche demand for naughty products, especially from working couples," says Youhan Darrab Aria, Head Corporate Communications, Archies Limited.
  
  "The demand of naughty gifts is steadily increasing," says Ashish Vijh, E-Commerce Head, Indiatimes Shopping. The popular online shopping website has included sensual products such as branded lingerie (including lingerie packed in a bottle), fashion mobiles and designer flowers.
  
  So, if you want to add a little spice to your gift giving, here is a list of different gift ideas to set the ball rolling.
  
  
 
  What can be a better gift than some sensually enticing innerwear to your beloved. Not only it will be a romantic surprise for her, but will also act as a great precursor for a steamy night ahead. Available in different tempting colours and designs, erotic lingerie is a perfect prop for a night of wild passion.
  
  "We have introduced a seductive range especially for this Valentine's. In fact, we have received loads of requests for the colour pink and red," said Thorsten Allenstein, MD Triumph International (India and Sri Lanka) "There is lot of purchase happening from men at our stores as we give ready solutions to our customers which makes the whole selection process easier," he added. "I am all set to gift my girlfriend a lacy G-string and push up bra as we are planning a Moulin Rouge night to celebrate our first Valentine's Day together. I can't wait to see her clad in sexy lingerie. I know she's always secretly desired such innerwear, and coming from me will add to her turn on," says 32-year-old banker Romit Sengupta.
  
  
 
  How about a sinfully delightful and lip smacking experience? Edible BodyPaint is the latest adventurous medium to express your fantasies towards your lover. Use a brush or let your fingers do the trick to paint your shades of sensual imagery on your partner's body. What's more? The paint is 'edible', so take the hint and let your tongue embark on a lip-smacking tasting sessions.
  
  "My husband is extremely creative when it comes to making out. He puts every possible fruit to use in our make out escapades. The idea of using edible body paints will also entice him to the core. I know what I am buying him on this Valentine's Day," avers an exited Sulochana Mansukhani, (name changed on request) a Mumbai-based PR Professional. "We have introduced edible chocolate body paint for Valentine's Day as there is a demand for such sensual products," says a store manager of floral boutique chain Ferns 'N' Petals.
  
  
 
  Who said toys were simply just for kids? Valentine's Day can be a great excuse to take your sexual relationship to new heights with some adult toys. A sex toy, be it a dildo, dong or a vibrator, can be a wonderful gift for both of you to explore each other's fantasies. Add a little creativity to your sex life and open the doors to reach newer levels of excitement and pleasure.
  
  "Last year, I gifted my girlfriend an adult toy and she simply loved it. It's a very intimate product and there could be no better occasion than V-Day for gifting it to her. It opened her up to me all the more," says Vibhav Sharma, a bank manager. "Sex toys are a great way to enhance sexual performance. For instance, using a vibrator on a woman, when the man is giving her oral sex can take her to heights of ecstasy she has never treaded before. Sex toys give you an added advantage of good health, as they release stress and tension," tells Bangalore-based sexologist, Dr. Murthy PS.
  
  
 
  Why not add into your sexual knowledge with some text-book reading on the act? A gift of erotic literature like the Kamasutra or Indian erotica is a great stimulation on the most special day of your lives. Check out both new and classic works of erotic fiction and poetry, which you can read aloud to each other as a unique way to spark off a night of sexual exploration. "Books like Expert Love Making, Quickies: Sex for Busy People, Intimate Relations: Exploring Indian Sexuality and Ecstasy through Tantra are a few popular books that Indian readers are picking up really fast.
  
  Not only young couples, but even middle-aged couples who are looking forward to bring back charm in their sex life ask for these books," reveals Suraj Mohanty of Budaniya Book Shop. You can also try your hands at love games like fore-playing flash, dice and card board games and have a lot of fun in the process. "My husband arranged for some really raunchy love games last year. Our gaming session helped a great deal to unleash our adventurous spirits and to bring to light a special evening with passion," says Madhu Sharma, a Delhi-based teacher.
  
  
 
  There's no better way to initiate sensual touching with your partner than an erotic massage. Create a mood of love, romance and bliss this V-day by giving each other full body massages with aromatic massage oils. "Couples who practice massages in their relationship often report that they feel closer to their partners. It encourages sexual desires, so they are not just connecting on a sensual level, but on a physical level too. This in turn builds trust and love. It fosters an intense bond, which is necessary for a truly connected and intimate relationship between two people. Keeping your hands in contact with your partner's skin is necessary for it to be a lasting and loving intimate relationship," explains sex therapist Dr. Simridhi Siddique.
  
  "My wife loves getting pampered. So, this V-day I'm planning to prepare a home spa for her. I'm looking forward to pampering her with a hot oil massage. I just hope the massage session graduates into an eventful night for both of us," shares Hemant Kulkarni, a Delhi-based advertising professional. "There is a wide range of massage oils ranging from strawberry, chocolate, wild cherry and others to choose from. Ylang Ylang oil is the most popular oil when it comes to boosting sex-drive," suggests aromatherapist Dr. Naresh Arora of Chase Aroma Therapy.
  
  
 
  Nothing makes a romantic evening sweeter than an expensive bottle of wine. If you're going for dinner this Valentine's Day, some wine will be a nice addition to your romantic feast. You either opt for a vibrant, spicy red or a full bodied white vineyard wine to set the mood for the rest of the night. "It might sound traditional, but it's special! Sparkling rose remains the most fun, frivolous and romantic drink ever. There are plenty of fine pink sparklers around, so select your favourite pink bubbly and speak your heart this Valentine's day," suggests restaurateur, AD Singh.
  
  Saurabh Vij, a Mumbai-based, banking professional says, "I read on the Internet that wine made a great ingredient for glowing skin. So, last Valentine's Day, me and my wife, got into experimental mode and tried out an intoxicating wine bath. And I must tell you, the magic was working on our sexual intimacy as well."
  
  
 
  Finding it tough to let your partner get a whiff of your mood? Want to let your spouse know that you are interested in a night of pure love and wild romance this Valentine's Day? Create a goody bag loaded with scented massage oils, a feather tickler, bathing gels, sensuous lingerie, edible chocolate pain, a love-toy and a few perfumed candles. As your spouse unwraps this sex-goody bag, you'll find him/her getting the cues and unwrapping an eventful night on the right notes.
  
  "I am quite shy and my husband always wanted me too take the lead in bed. So, last year I surprised him by letting him know my naughty intentions with a 'sex-box' that I created exclusively for him. I collected all the possible goodies that could suggest to him my naughty intentions and it worked magic. I didn't have to say anything, he was absolutely prepared for a night of action," shares Nikita Chandra (name changed on request), a PR professional.
  
  Remember whatever you decide to do, make it personal. You do not have to spend a lot of money to make the day unforgettable. The thought that you put into doing something unique and loving is much more important than the price tag.
  
  
  
