A lot has changed for   Season 1 winner   in these last 100 days. From all the attention that the actor has been receiving overnight to getting used to the GST that is being levied at restaurants, Arav’s grappling with some new stuff. “I just went to the store to buy some essentials and I spent a good one hour just taking selfies with people there. All this sudden attention is overwhelming. In fact, I don’t think I would have gotten this kind of attention even if I had done 50 films,” begins Arav, who had played a substantial role in the movie Saithan. In an hour-long chat, Arav talks to Chennai Times about life after Bigg Boss, working with   and dealing with trolls. Read on...

 
 
 
 I cannot even begin to explain the experience I had inside the house. It has been amazing. When we entered, it was just an empty house — with no emotions. But once the contestants came in, the house saw all kinds of emotions like anger, pain, love, affection, jealously, etc. I had never watched the show in Hindi or any other language for that matter and was not at all prepared. I had no strategy, I just knew I had to be myself and play the game, that’s about it. A lot of people were acting inside the house to get votes, but I didn’t want to do that. I never wanted to cheat people just to get votes. 
 
 There were times when I wanted to break down because the aim of the game is to test your patience and see how you succumb to pressure. If you can manage that, you can scrape through. The last few weeks were very terrible. The tasks were getting difficult. We were mentally and physically drained. To have been able to cross all this has been a great learning experience for me.
 
 
 Simple things like patience. It sounds easy, but it isn’t! You lose track of time, date and days felt longer. Initially, we felt the house was big. But after a point, we were like, ‘it could have been bigger.’ I had asked Bigg Boss if I could get a hair cut. They never responded for two weeks and then they called me and said, ‘Arav, you look fine.’ They try and instigate you. I have my own business in Trichy. It was over a month and I wanted to know if everything was going alright. I had requested Bigg Boss to give me some information on my bank details and stocks, but they never got back to me. It is that strict. So, you eventually become patient. Evem if I had fought with someone inside the house, I learnt to let go because I cannot escape from the house and I have to be with them. I might as well resolve the issue than stay inside the house and act as if nothing happened. Little things like this has made a change. I learnt to take things lightly. Initially, all the back-biting got to me, but you cannot let it affect you so much.
 
 
 I didn’t expect things to get serious. She is a brilliant person. In fact, Oviya is nicer than a lot of other people in the house. She exudes positivity and is good-hearted. Sometimes, she would do things that irritated others and that’s why she was nominated week after week. But we would wonder how she was not getting evicted. Only when I came out, I realised the kind of a fan following she has. When the whole issue was going on, I wanted to just get out of the house. But if that had happened, I would have been the bad guy. So, I had to play the game and win it. I am thankful to God that I won it. 
 
 
 (Laughs) She is an established actress, and has a fan following. More than anything else, she is a girl, and at no point, I wanted her to get a bad name. Even if it meant I was named the bad guy, I was OK with it. I just wanted her to be fine. 
 
 
 I would love that, too. If that is what people want, why not? She is still a good friend and I will always wish her the best. She is already an established actor and it would be great working with her.
 
 
 For any family that has no background in films, this is a big jolt. And the entire world was watching it. My parents were very upset and they wanted me to get out of the house at the earliest. My parents are orthodox and all this was too much for them to take. My mother kept crying for weeks, but I had a lot of weeks to prove myself. I wanted to win people’s hearts more than anything else. Now, they understand and are happy about the win.
 
 
 A lot of people have been telling me that I have won because of Oviya. Also, some are appreciating me and there are some neutral comments, too. I am just accepting everything. I don’t want to get dejected seeing a few remarks and trolls. If you want to be a celebrity, you will have to face all this. You cannot expect everybody to like you. I heard some of the other housemates had to go through worse when they came out.
 
 
 When it comes to films connecting with people is the most important factor. Take for example, Sivakarthikeyan, he connected so well with people and look where he is today. This show has helped all the contestants to connect with people and how they use it is in their hands. The show is like a `100 crore movie that ran for 100-days, which will help all the contestants get better films. Some of the inmates were clever and knew what exactly they wanted out of it. For example, Julie is a very clever girl and played her game well.
 
 
 Suja, I think. I felt she wore a mask all the time and wanted to act just to gain the sympathy of the people. She was one person, who wanted to win the game at any cost.
 
 
 Even I had a lot of doubts if the show was scripted before I entered the house. But it wasn’t... we took our own clothes and had to cook. Only during special occasions or tasks they gave us clothes. People thought the food must be production food, but no. We had to cook. We were never allowed to go out or had no access to phone. No one can come in, and even those who did, wouldn’t talk to us. I am sure there would be other seasons of the show and I am sure they will be a success.
 
 
 I have been getting a lot of calls from big directors, actors and production houses. I will take a break for a few days and then start listening to scripts. I want to be part of good films. It is not as though I just want to do hero roles. I am open to all kinds of roles, but the story and script should be good.
 
 
 Well, I think the man knows what he is doing. I am all for him entering politics. The state of affairs is really bad and we need a good leader. Kamal sir is a very learned man and knows his strategy well. Kamal sir could be the change we are all looking for! 
 
 
 I think I could have handled the Oviya issue better. I don’t think I should have avoided her that day. Others told me that it would have hurt her. I think I should have been a little more patient especially since I was her best friend in the house. I also apologised to her and had tears in my eyes. I knew I had insulted her and that was very bad.
 
 
 I lived in Trichy for 18 years. I studied in a school (Tiny Tots) that brought out the talent in me. They pushed me to get on stage and show my talent, which is why I am confident about myself today. Perhaps, that is why a small town boy made it big. But these days where you come from doesn’t matter. It is all about the attitude and how you carry yourself.
 
 
 
 
