CHENNAI: A feeling of betrayal prodded the pro-jallikattu protesters at Marina Beach to raise anti-government slogans on Thursday. The day’s proceedings had more intensity in comparison to Wednesday as many more students turned up at the protest venue in a show of solidarity.

 With numbers swelling, close one lakh gathered at the beach on Thursday, splinter groups conducting parallel protests started raising their own set of demands.   banners cropped up and placards demanding the setting up of Cauvery Management Tribunal also figured prominently.
 
 Even before news about the ‘disappointment’ suffered by chief minister   following his talks with Prime Minister   filtered through, protesters had raised placards deriding Modi. Their point was simple - Modi, the Indian Prime Minister, was anti-Tamil. “We expected this. Who is Modi? Does he know Tamil history and culture? No one can tell a Tamil to act in a certain way,” said G Sundaram, a mechanical engineering student at a city college.
 
 The anti-government slogans kept coming. AIADMK general secretary VK Sasikala was not spared. One of the slogan shouters asked the huge gathering whether Tamil Nadu required ‘Chinnamma’, to which the crowd responded with a resounding “No”.
 
 Students then trained their guns on Panneerselvam and they were not content merely questioning the senior AIADMK leader’s credentials. “Hey OPS, did you go to Delhi to eat mixture (a snack)?” read one of the placards, in reference to a comedy scene from the 1994 Tamil flick ‘Nattamai’.
 
 This approach was markedly different from the one adopted by the demonstrators in the beginning which earned them plaudits. The core group of protesters, however, tried their best to rein in the participants but it was of little use. Youngsters attempting stunts on two-wheelers under the garb of raising slogans against PeTA proved a distraction to other protesters.
 
 Meanwhile, students regulated traffic flow, swept the Marina Beach service lane, collected the plastic waste which was strewn about and monitored parking. Donors had dropped off water sachets at collection points all along Beach Road where protests were happening. A catering service based in Gummidipoondi took upon the task of supplying food to the protesters. P Sudhagar, manager, Sai Ram hospitality serivce, who was distributing idly, pongal and sambhar to the protesters in the morning said that his firm would spend Rs 50,000 per day on supplying food. “For as long as the protests continue, we will supply food,” he said.
 
 
