Kakinada: In the wake of   leader Mudragada Padmanabham’s call for Padayatra Chalo Amaravathi that is scheduled to begin on July 26, the police department has imposed restriction in East Godavari and other districts in the state.

 Security in East Godavari has been beefed up with around 6,000 cops drawn from other districts including Kadapa, Nellore, Chittoor, Prakasham, Anantapur and north coastal AP districts. Cops have already imposed Section 144 of IPC and has initiated vehicle checks on all roads leading to Kirlampudi, the native village of the Kapu leader. Around 1,000 cops from East Godavari district and another 4,000 to 5,000 personnel from other districts have been pressed into action.
 
 Former minister Mudragada Padmanabham said that his padayatra will continue despite hurdles created by the government. He once again demanded that the government should include Kapus in the backward class list and warned that this will be his final battle against the government.
 
 However, the police department has been issuing notices and warned many leaders of Kapu JAC following which many Kapu leaders accused the government of trying to suppress the agitation. According to sources, cops have been implementing restrictions and have set up more than 30 check posts at various places in the district.
 
 Speaking to media persons on Monday, district SP Vishal Gunni said that there no permission was issued by the police department for the padayatra. He added that Section 144 of IPC and Section 30 of Police Act are already in force in the district, while a ban has been imposed on protests, meetings and rallies. “All persons entering Kirlampudi will be checked by cops to verify proof of identity. Apart from a massive contigent of cops, CRPF and Rapid Action Force (RAF) have also been pressed into action,” he added. 
 
 SP Gunni further said that live coverage will not be allowed and asked all mediapersons not to attempt such coverages. “Cops will allow the media according to the situation. Media should also be in its limits,” he suggested.
 
 
