CHANDIGARH: Even over 15 months after   gripped Haryana during the February 2016  , over 163 weapons and   by rioters, are yet to be recovered.

 These weapons were stolen, snatched or looted during the violence, in which 31 people were killed and public and private property worth crores of rupees was damaged.
 
 Security experts and retired police officers are of the view that not only could such a large number of arms and ammunition be misused for anti-social activities, but their non-recovery after such a long period reflects poorly on the police force.
 
 The data on weapons not yet recovered by cops was recently submitted before Justice S N Jha panel, which is probing the conspiracy angle in the violence.
 
 According to the data, in Rohtak alone -the epicenter of the agitation -around 104 weapons of private persons deposited at Meham police station and a local gun house were looted and are yet to be recovered. These weapons include single and do uble-barrel guns, pistols and revolvers. Surprisingly, three .
 
 303 rifles along with 75 rounds, looted from the police guard room outside finance minister Captain Abhimanyu's residence, have also not been traced by the police. This, despite the arrest of 40 persons in cases related to attack on the minister's residence.
 
 Around 53 weapons, including 31 private ones, 19 case property and 3 official arms, looted from Jind district's Pillu Khera police station, too have not been recovered till date. Even the tear grenades, pistols and shells that were snatched from the state police at national highway-1, near Larsauli village in Sonipat district, as violence spiralled, are yet to be found. Police also have no clues on the the 2300 missing cartridges.
 
 Retired Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ranbir Sharma, said non-recovery of such a huge cache of ammunition even after more than a year of investigation and identification of several accused, reflects the insensitivity of the police and the state government. “It also shows that the police and authorities are not serious about recovery of weapons, which could be misused by anti-social elements,“ he added.
 
 Former director general of police (DGP),   said such arms are likely to be used by criminals.“Since these are legally purchased sophisticated guns and pistols of private individuals deposited at gun houses or police stations, such weaponry is serious threat to social security of the state."
 
