LUCKNOW: To most, a child with   (ADHD) is a person with disability. But a recent research in the city has shown that   are more creative than their peers. 

 The research, titled Neural Alterations in ADHD Children of India, was carried out by Center for Bio Medical Research (CBMR) and psychiatry department of King George’s Medical University. Using advanced MRI, the researchers evaluated brain structure of ADHD kids and found that though they have subnormal neuro-anatomical structure, their creative sense is more evolved. 
 
 Principal author, assistant professor, CBMR, Uttam Kumar said, “In the course of study of the brain, several behavioural and IQ assessment exercises were also given to the kids which suggested that they were creative. It was also found that they liked certain activities more than other things which means that they can excel in a task of their liking. The findings are being examined further.”
 
 Kumar, a neuro-imaging specialist, along with Prof Vivek Agarwal and Dr Amit Arya, has proved the utility of ‘Voxel Based Cortical Thickness’ and ‘Morphometry Analysis’ tools on ADHD kids, a one of its kind effort. While Voxel based cortical thickness is used to calculate the grey matter in the brain,   is the quantitative measure of white matter, grey matter and distribution of the brain fluid. 
 
 “Grey and white matter are crucial brain cells that control central nervous system. A skewed ratio of the two translates into abnormality,” said Prof Agarwal. They have found that different regions of an ADHD child’s brain are anatomically different from the brain of a normal child. 
 
 Researchers claim that the work, which has been published in Brain and Development Journal (a high impact official journal brought out by Japanese society of Child Neurology), will help in early diagnosis of ADHD and a holistic individual specific treatment / management plan.
 
 As of now, a psycho-behavioural questionnaire is used to conclude if a child has ADHD or not. “A lot of stigma is associated with ADHD and parents of such children treat them as people with disabilities. But the scenario isn’t as grim as commonly perceived. The biggest fear of such parents is that the child will always be dependent on others,” said Dr Arya. 
 
 An early diagnosis and inclusion of activities can shape an ADHD kids into creative people who can sing, paint or master a handicraft. “We can say this because our assessment showed that there is no significant difference in the total grey matter and white matter of ADHD kids when compared with their peers,” said Kumar. 
 
 The researchers claimed that ADHD kids should be exposed to several activities like bead making and colouring to prolong their attention span and build concentration. 
 
