GHAZIABAD: A 45-year-old school owner was arrested on Sunday for sexually exploiting his daughter for the past seven years in  . The crime came to light after his 20-year-old daughter submitted a written complaint to police on Sunday.

 The woman, a first year BA student of IGNOU, also submitted a video clip to police along with the complaint. Police said the clip had been candidly filmed by the woman when her father had been forcing himself upon her recently.
 
 The accused has been identified as Kishor Kumar Jha. He owns an English-medium school in   area in   where he also teaches Mathematics, said police. Jha also has an 18-year-old son who studies in a college in Ghaziabad. According to police, the family belongs to Darbhanga district of Bihar and came to Ghaziabad nearly 15 years ago. 
 
 The woman told police that her father used to beat her if she resisted his attempts to rape. She was also threatened with dire consequences if she ever divulged about the sexual exploitation.
 
 “The woman told us that she recently confided in her friends after being overcome with a sense of guilt. The mother of one of her friends provided her counselling and egged upon her to go to the police against her father. She subsequently filmed a video and presented it as evidence. We will send the video for tests to ascertain its veracity,” said SHO,  , Hemant Rai.
 
 A medical examination was conducted on the woman on Sunday, the results of which are awaited. An FIR has been registered against the accused in Kavi Nagar police station under sections 376 (rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC apart from relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. A local court in Ghaziabad sent the accused to judicial custody. 
 
 Investigations, said police, are underway to ascertain if the woman’s mother, a homemaker, was complicit with her husband in the crime. “We are enquiring from family members as to why the woman did not confide in her mother all these years and preferred to talk to her friends instead. We are also trying to ascertain whether her mother preferred to keep quiet about the incident or tried to hush it up after she confided in her,” added Rai.
 
