BEIJING: The Chinese foreign ministry summoned Indian ambassador Vijay Gokhale at the ministry office here on Wednesday to lodge an angry protest against the Dalai Lama’s 
  of   in Arunachal Pradesh.

 Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, “We demand India stop using the Dalai Lama to do anything that undermines China’s interests, and we also demand the Indian side not hype up sensitive issues between India and China.”
 
 This is the first time an Indian ambassador has been summoned by the Chinese foreign ministry to lodge a protest since April 2008, when then envoy Nirupama Rao was called past midnight after Tibetans scaled the wall of the Chinese embassy in New Delhi in March 2008 protesting against the Beijing Olympic torch.
 
 At Wednesday’s briefing, the ministry made no bones about its anger over the visit as it accused India of “obstinately” arranging the Tibetan leader’s tour while ignoring 
  .
 
 “India, in disregard of China’s concerns, obstinately arranged the Dalai’s visit to the eastern part of the India-China border causing serious damage to China’s interests and to India-China relations,” Hua said.
 
 Union minister Kiren Rijiju, who is from Arunachal, had said, “Arunachal Pradesh is an inseparable part of India, and China should not object to the Dalai Lama’s visit and interfere in India’s internal affairs.”
 
 Hua rejected the suggestion, saying, “We have noted the statement from officials of the Indian side. Can you tell me honestly, do you seriously believe the Dalai (Lama) is only a religious leader? The answer is known to all. He is not just a religious figure. Therefore, his visit to this place will not be of a purely religious purpose. So using these empty words to define this arrangement is not reasonable.”
 
 However, there are signs that China is worried that the Tibetan leader’s preachings across nine days might have some influence across the border in Tibet despite strong military barricades along the boundary.
 
 The Dalai Lama is revered by Tibetans despite the official campaign in China that he’s a “secessionist and a political opportunist”.
 
 Hua said the Dalai Lama issue “goes beyond internal affairs”. She said, “The role played by the Dalai Lama is clear to all. The issues concerning Tibet have a bearing on China’s core interests.”
 
 Despite its anguish, the foreign ministry expressed the hope that India and China could work together as good neighbours.
 
 “We hope we can work together to maintain the growth of relations,” Hua said. “Cooperation between us will serve the interests of the region. We hope to maintain a good momentum of growth but this move runs counter to this wish, so we hope India stops doing things that undermine our interests.”
 
 But, the Chinese media went a step further, saying India was playing the “Tibet card” by facilitating the Dalai Lama tour of Tawang as a reaction to Chinese construction activity in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and Beijing’s opposition to India’s entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
 
 Beijing-based Global Times accused Prime Minister   of using the Tibetan leader to challenge China’s “bottomline”.
 
 “Unlike his predecessors, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi seems to have taken a very different stance on the Dalai Lama issue raising public engagements with the monk and challenging Beijing’s bottomline,” it said.
 
  
  
 
