Trichy: Five pilgrims, who were undertaking a padayatra to Palani, died after they were mowed down by a   near Manapparai in the wee hours of Saturday. One person was also injured in the incident.

 The deceased were identified as Saleem(40), of Samasbiran Street in Rockfort, Hari(24), Duwaragan(30), of Muthaliar Steet in Woraiyur, Srinivasan(30), of Jeeva Nagar and, Guna(37), of Chinna Kammala Street. The injured person was identified as Kumar(35). 
 
 Police said though Saleem belonged to the Muslim community, he used to carry out the padayatra to the Palani Murugan temple in Dindigul district every year along with his friends. He and his friends started their pilgrimage on Friday night. As they were approaching Palapatti on the Trichy-Dindigul National Highway near Manapparai in the wee hours of Saturday, a Theni-bound car from Chennai ran over them, killing five of them on the spot.
 
 The occupants of the car identified as Sambasi of Chinnamanur, his wife C Jayashree, daughter C Ayshwarya and car driver Sebastian, of Manapparai were injured in the  . Police said the incident happened after the driver reportedly fell asleep at the wheel.
 
 Upon information, Manapparai deputy superintendent of police G Vanitha rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. The injured were sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where they are reported to be stable. The bodies of the victims were sent to the hospital for post mortem. Manapparai police have registered a case.
 
 Later speaking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police G Vanitha said that rash driving was the sole reason behind such accidents. “There are a number of roads connecting to the NH near Manapparai. No one cares about their own safety when they enter the highways without following norms. We have planned to conduct an awareness programmes to educate villagers on how to use the national highways,” said Vanitha. 
 
 It is to be noted here that in a memorandum submitted to the district administration during the District Road Safety Council meeting held a few days back, M Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organizations, had pointed out that the 40km stretch along the highways, a highly-populated area, lacked proper lighting and demanded immediate installation of the same.
 
 Meanwhile, a 25-year-old man was killed in a road accident near Oyamari crematorium area in the city on Saturday evening. Police said the deceased, M Sudhakar, of EB Road, was trying to cross a road when a speeding private bus ran over him. He was rushed to Trichy Government Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. South Traffic Wing police registered a case and are investigating.
 
 
