Mumbai: The   heard an unusual request recently. 

 The father of a   girl who had been raped by a Goregaon youth approached the   saying that he did not wish to pursue the criminal case to “safeguard the interests” of his daughter. Accepting the father’s plea, a division bench of Justice Rajendra Savant and Justice Sandeep Shinde quashed the   and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act case against the youth and ordered his release from prison. 
 
 “We deem it appropriate to follow the instant course of action having regard for the interest of the child and her future. We are also the view that such a course of action would result in the child getting an opportunity to start life afresh,” said the judges. The bench clarified that its order was based on the “peculiar facts and circumstances of the case”.
 
 The youth was arrested in October 2016, after the girl’s father approached Dindoshi police claiming that she had been sexually assulted. The police booked the youth on charges of rape and under provisions of  . 
 
 Earlier this year, the father, who was the first informant in the case, filed a petition in   urging it to quash the case using its extraordinary jurisdiction. In his petition, he claimed that he was doing so “to protect the interest of his minor daughter” who was supposedly in a relationship with the youth. He said continuation of the case would cause hardship to the girl and affect her future.
 
 The court interviewed the father, the girl and her mother. The girl told the judges that she was not interested in pursuing the case. “It is on the basis of our interaction with the girl and her mother that we have reached a conclusion that no useful purpose would be served by proceeding with the prosecution and the same would only have the result of affecting her life and her future. She has also crossed the age of 16 and therefore has reached the age where she is able to fathom what is good and bad for her,” observed the judges. The court said the youth would have to be released if he is not wanted in another case.
 
 
