Kolkata: “Masterda didn’t have only one family. All of Chittagong was his family. He inspires me and generations to do the unthinkable.” This is how Masterda Surya Sen’s Kolkata-based grandnephew Dr Prateep Kumar Sen described his family lineage on the 123rd birth anniversary of the revolutionary leader. 

 On the same day, Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Homage to the great freedom fighter   on his birth anniversary. His life is a lesson for all Indians”.
 
  Yet, the sad reality is, very few youngsters today are keen to know about him. Such a confession comes from Chandanlall Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Anushilan Samiti — of which Masterda was a prominent member. “Anushilan Samiti was founded in Kolkata in 1902. Working underground, it believed in revolutionary violence to ensure the end of British rule in India. When the British got a whiff about their underground activities, the organisation split into two. One of them, Jugantar, was prominent in what is now Bangladesh. Masterda was one of the leading members of Jugantar,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 A curious map of undivided India draws attention to Anushilan Samiti, which was once a hub of revolutionaries. Nobody knows why such a map still finds prominence on a wall in front of the court where youngsters come to play badminton regularly. Seated in the old office of the organisation on 13A Ishwar Thakur Lane, Bhattacharya said, today the iron dumb-bells used by revolutionaries have got rusted. Youngsters want fancy treadmills instead. 
 
 “There have been times when freedom fighters have come here and shared their memories of Masterda. Today, getting true-blue revolutionaries, who have actually been involved in the freedom movement, is difficult. Even if we do find them, we might just get three youngsters in the crowd besides Samiti executives like us,” Bhattacharya said. 
 
 On being asked why the Samiti doesn’t celebrate Masterda’s birth anniversary, the spokesperson said, “We have a tradition of celebrating our inauguration day on Dolyatra. We have continued that tradition. Besides, where is the young crowd to organise something like that?”
 
 Sen insisted that Masterda is beyond such celebrations. 
 
 “He has been an icon. He inspires generations to follow him and his spirit. Perhaps, his contribution should have been recognised better. But then again, Masterda was beyond all this. He never thought of what people would think, what recognition he would get,” Sen said.
 
 At home, Sen has heard tales of Masterda from his grandmother. “I have heard of my grandmother carrying arms in her school books to his people. He used to come to our Bengal home occasionally for lunch,” Sen said. However, Sen feels disheartened that today’s youngsters relate Masterda to Abhishek Bachchan from the film ‘Khelein Hum Jee Jaan Sey’ and then remember who he was. Said Sen, “I loved the film ‘Chittagong’. It’s sad that people can’t relate to a person who started the armed rebellion against the British Raj. It was the beginning of the end for them.”
 
 
