MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has questioned how a Pune college’s teachers and management can be booked for negligence in the drowning of 14 adult students off   in Raigad during a picnic on February 1, 2016. 

 “Prima facie, it appears that Section 304A (death due to negligence) is not made out,” said a bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai while admitting the matter for final hearing on Monday. 
 
 The court’s order came on pleas of some 17 individuals associated with Abeda Inamdar College, including its trustee P A Inamdar, management, principal, teachers and non-teaching staff, to quash the first information report (FIR) filed against them under the Indian Penal Code Section 304A.
 
 Advocate Abhishek Pungliya, appearing on behalf of complainant Shivaji Salgar, vociferously opposed their pleas arguing that except for describing themselves as management, principal or teachers, they do not explain why they are not responsible. The judges questioned how Section 304A is applicable, adding that a claim for compensation can be made under the Law of Tort. 
 
 “It is a very unfortunate incident. We understand the sentiments. Did the professors force the college students to go for the picnic?” asked Justice Oka. The judges referred to the allegation that the principal and teachers were aware that some students did not know to swim. “How will the principal and teachers know?” asked Justice Oka, adding that “it is nobody’s case that the children were forced to enter the water.” 
 
 Pungliya relied on the report of Savitribai Phule University’s fact-finding committee, which concluded that the college had not adhered to   (UGC) guidelines dealing with the safety of students on and off campuses of higher educational institutions. He argued that 116 students went for the picnic without teachers trained in providing safety and doctors. “If a doctor was there, some students would have been saved. While the students were dying in water, the staff was entertaining themselves in the hotel,” said Pungliya. 
 
 He further argued that the itinerary and travel plans have to be worked out and circulated among parents of students and their consent letter obtained. 
 
 In their order, the judges noted that the victims were senior college students who had attained majority. “Even assuming that there is dereliction on part of the staff of college, prima facie it appears to us that the same has no proximity or connection with the death of students,” they added. The police is directed to continue investigations but restrained from filing a chargesheet.
 
 
