Before coming to any conclusion, it is mandatory to understand what   is!
For easy understanding, Diabetes is a condition that happens when blood glucose level rises or the body is incapable of converting the glucose into energy.
 There are many forms of Diabetes but mainly there are three types namely: Type 1, Type 2 and GDM (Gestational Diabetes Mellitus). 
 
 
 Type 1 Diabetes is a condition found in children where insulin is not formed or is formed in negligible amounts.
 
 
  Type 2 Diabetes is a condition found in adulthood where the pancreatic cells do not produce enough insulin or the body cells develop insulin resistance.
 
 
  GDM is a condition that develops only during pregnancy. Statistics show that in India 7 crore people live with Diabetes and it is expected to reach 10 crore by 2030.
 
 Major etiological factors for such inflation of Diabetes are obesity and sedentary lifestyle. The main symptoms that are seen only among 50% of patients are excessive hunger, excessive thirst, frequent urination, weight loss, delayed wound healing, etc.
 
 It is necessary to know that on ignoring Diabetes the following complications occur such as paralysis, heart problems, thyroid problems, kidney problems, skin problems, high cholesterol levels, high blood pressure levels, bone related problems, nerve and muscle related problems, infectious diseases, cancer, etc.
 
 All these complications increase by unprecedented amounts on ignoring Diabetes. Diabetes can be controlled by only one rule that is D for Diabetes and D for Discipline.
 
  Having discipline in exercise, diet, timely intake of medicine and regular medical checkup; one can maintain good control of Diabetes.
 Once detected with Diabetes, does it remain for a lifetime?
 
 If borderline Diabetes is detected and has developed due to unhealthy lifestyle, the situation can be salvaged by improving one’s lifestyle but if Diabetes is detected in a stage where the cells have lost their potential to produce insulin, treatment for Diabetes will have to be taken for life long.
 
 
 
 
 A restriction in diet does not mean that certain food items cannot be consumed at all but such that food items can be consumed in a sufficient manner in order to be utilized properly during the day. Sometimes excessive restrictions can cause extreme weakness or rise in blood sugar levels. By following the diet given by the dietician and treatment given by the doctor, good control can be achieved.
 
 
 
 Any form of treatment such as Allopathic, Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, home remedies, Acupuncture, etc. can be tried and used. Any 1 form of treatment that gives results should be consistently used. One should not mix different forms of treatment as it is harmful and can cause unpredictable damage.
 
 
 
 
