MADURAI: Government Rajaji Hospital will offer   service to dental patients   from Thursday to become the first   in southern   to do so. Heeding a direction from the Madurai bench of Madras high court in November last year, the hospital has set up a ceramic lab in the dental department to offer the service. 

 A nominal fee of about Rs 300 would be charged for making the crown for the tooth. Root canal treatment is known to burn a hole in the common man’s pocket costing a minimum of Rs 4,000 in private dental clinics. The facility was developed based on a direction from the high court to set up ceramic laboratories in all medical college hospitals in the state. Only GRH seem to have made a serious effort in this direction and developed the lab which will be inaugurated on Thursday. The facility would be available not just for the poor, but all. 
 
 A senior doctor from the hospital said the new treatment facility would impose an additional expenditure of Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakh a month on the hospital. Since it is considered as a cosmetic treatment, it is not covered under insurance schemes including the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme.
 
 The facility was developed at a cost of Rs 11 lakh. The ceramic lab is essential for making the crowns required to cap the tooth after the root canal procedure is done. The dental department which has two professors and four assistant professors is expected to perform root canal procedure on around 100 people a month. So far, the hospital has been offering only filling up and teeth removal. 
 
 Confirming the inauguration, M R Vairamuthuraju, dean of GRH, said that the lab would be inaugurated at 10.30 am on Thursday. He said that the department already had an acrylic lab where a technician has been posted to take care of crown-making. 
 
 Dr Sivaponnappan, head of the dental department (in-charge), said “There will not be any charge for the root canal procedure. But, a nominal charge of around Rs 300 as per the government norms will be charged for the crown.” According to him, the facility was set up at a cost of around Rs 11 lakhs — Rs 7.58 lakh was spent on materials and equipment while around Rs 3.5 lakh was spent by the PWD for the infrastructure. 
 
 
