LUCKNOW: Two decades after learning the ‘Charkha daon’ to stun his opponents in ‘akahara’ (wrestling ring) from none other than   patriarch and wrestler in his own right Mulayam Singh Yadav, the Arjuna award-winning wrestler   is now trying his hands in politics. A native of the famed Malakpur, a village of wrestlers in UP’s Baghpat district, the ‘pehelwan’ (wrestler) is contesting Assembly election from Baraut seat on a SP ticket.

 As a young man, SP founder Mulayam was fond of wrestling. On many occasions, he defeated his rivals using ‘charkha daon’, a wrestling manoeuvre Mulayam became synonymous with even outside the ring. This surprise move involved tossing one’s rival in the air like a wheel and flooring him within seconds.
 
 Tomar, who openly claims that UP chief minister   is his role model, believes that Akhilesh has inherited simplicity from his father Mulayam. “I first met Netaji (Mulayam) during a wrestling tournament in Saifai in 1998. Like all participants, I asked him to teach us the famous charkha daon. He taught us on the condition to show in the ring what we learnt. I passed the test by grasping the method correctly and won his blessings besides an ‘inam’ (prize),” recalled Shokinder. 
 
 Extremely busy with his “Gaon-gaon sampark yatra” (door-to-door march), Tomar is talking of Akhilesh’s vision of clean politics. “I’m contesting elections because the party president (Akhilesh) wants good candidates to win and work for the cause of the people,” Tomar told TOI. 
 
 Though his party stood third on the seat in 2012 elections, Tomar prefers to be optimistic. Locals feel that the contest is between sitting BSP MLA Lokesh Dixit and RLD candidate Sahab Singh. Struggling to keep up with the mannerism of a politician, Tomar banks on 55% young voters on his seat. “I am being honest with everyone and I know it appeals,” said Tomar who is also a recipient of Yash Bharti award (2006). 
 
 About the issues in his constituency, Tomar said, “All may not be able to make it to international matches, but every heart in my district and constituency throbs for sports. Still, there are no specialised dedicated facilities to help youth practice. I have pledged to do something for my bretheren. Then, we are an agrarian economy and issues like cane dues and arm twisting by sugar mills constantly haunts farmers in the region. I promise a solution to their problems.” 
 
 WRESTLING IT OUT FOR VOTER AWARENESS: 
 
 Wrestlers are already a revered lot in western UP. While Shokinder has entered the poll arena, others including, Dangal girls Gita Babita and Sandeep Tomar, are working for voter awareness. While Bagpat administration has declared Sandeep Tomar as their brand ambassador for elections, Meerut DM B Chandrakala engaged Phogat sisters in the ongoing campaign called “Vote karega Meerut”. That’s not all, in Bagpat, administrative officers participating in voter awareness meets are using wrestling and other sports activities to drive the voters. Each meet is preceded by a small wrestling or volleyball match. Talking to TOI, DM Bagpat Hriday Shankar Tiwari said, “Wrestlers are a role model in their way because of their disciplined way of life. Media limelight turns them into a celebrity and therefore we thought of engaging them for the cause of democracy.” 
 
 VILLAGE OF WRESTLERS MALAKPUR: Wrestling is said to have its roots in Bagpat from times of Mahabharata, but in Malakpur, the tradition assumed an organised shape in the 1970s when Iqbal and Harpal, the disciples of Khalifa (master) Dariyav Singh opened an akhara. Today, more than 2,000 youths from Shamli, Khekhda, Loni, Shahdara, Chaprauli, Kirthal and Barhaut practice the sport. Despite lacking modern facilities, the village has given more than 15 international and 50 national players. Of late, many wrestlers are proving their worth in kabaddi as well. The village also hosts a mega dangal each year.
 
