MUMBAI: The height of the   will be increased from the proposed 192m to 210m, to compete with a Buddha statue in China for the world’s tallest statue tag.

 The state government will send a revised proposal to the Centre for   for the extra height after its claims of building the tallest memorial in the world was dashed by the Spring Temple Buddha in Lushan County, China. The statue in China, built on a hill, was completed in 2008. Its original height was 153m, but later the hill on which the statue stood was reshaped to form three pedestals, taking the total height to 208m.
 
 “We want the tallest memorial for  . Once the bidder is finalized, we will send a revised proposal with a height of 210m to the Centre, for environmental clearances,” said Vinayak Mete, chairman of the Shivaji memorial committee formed by the state government. “Shivaji Maharaj is an inspiration to us and future generations too. We will do everything possible to make a grand memorial for him,” said Mete. 
 
 This is one of the few projects in the state with major political implications. The state government budgeted Rs 3,600 crore for the entire project of which Rs 2,500 crore has been estimated for the first phase, for which tenders have been invited. The memorial will have a temple, museum, hospital, entrance modeled on the Raigad fort and a theatre showcasing highlights of Shivaji’s life. Another major feature is a lift which will take visitors right up to 180m or 60 floors inside the memorial, giving them a view from that height.
 
 “In monuments like the Burj Khalifa or the Statue of Liberty you can get a view from a height, the Shivaji memorial too will allow for that kind of an experience,” said an official from the public works department, which is in charge of executing the project. 
 
 Officials said of the Rs 2,500 crore to be spent in the first phase of the memorial, Rs 1,200 crore is for the statue itself as a bronze alloy will be used considering weather conditions in Mumbai. While plans for the second phase of the project have not been finalized, there is a proposal for features like a helipad and IMAX theatre. 
 
  Work will begin by the end of the year and the project has a 36-month deadline. Officials said the statue is being designed by Delhi-based sculptors Ram Sutar. 
 
 
 
 
 
