“If the police dilute the first FIR, then there is nothing wrong in launching a second FIR“. This was the view held by the Hyderabad High Court. Supreme Court too has upheld it while dealing with the case of a funds misuse in a Christian   here.The   has directed CID officials to complete the investigation in the FIR they booked against Secunderabad-based Christian NGO,   (OMI), its principal trustee Joseph D'souza and others expeditiously. The Apex court said this while dismissing the appeal filed by the OMI and its principal trustee, challenging the HC order that brushed aside Joseph's objections to the FIR against them.

 The complaint against the NGO was filed in September 2016 by none other than its own former chief financial officer (CFO) G Albert Lael, who charged the OMI and its principal trustee with amassing more than Rs 100 crore charity money. This money was given by foreign donors, who were responding to the calls given by OMI for its proposed programme to educate Dalit children in India.According to Albert, the principal trustee was diverting the trust funds and he was investing them elsewhere to personally enrich himself at the cost of Dalit children in whose name the money was brought in. OMI contested it before the HC earlier and challenged the FIR against it. It described the complaint against it as an attempt by certain disgruntled employees, who were working with it in the past but were later sacked due to their misconduct. It also brought to the noti ce of the court about a similar FIR registered against it in 2012 which was sub sequently closed due to lack of evidence. It also challenged the registration of a second FIR on the same set of facts.
 
 The single judge, who heard the case held that the second FIR is maintainable because the first FIR was closed without investigating the matter in a proper manner. He also recorded the facts brought to the court's notice by  , the counsel for the complainant, that certain retired police officials were hired by OMI as advisers by paying them. In fact, he said, a witness, who was not heard properly in the first FIR came forward and filed this second complaint.
 
 The judge described the police effort in the first FIR as perfunctory and they did not verify the books of the OMI nor did they examine the witnesses.Stating that finding the truth is the ultimate aim of any investigation the single judge upheld the registration of a second FIR in the case. Aggrieved by this the OMI approached the SC, which also dismissed the case and directed the CID to complete its probe.
 
