PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Nearly a fortnight after the Union cabinet sanctioned Rs100 crore to pay salaries and other arrears to the employees of   in Pimpri, there has been no progress so far. The sick public sector pharmaceutical company has not received the amount yet. 

 HAL employees have not received salaries for the past 24 months.
 
 Hindustan   ( )   said, “There has been no development regarding land purchase. It is from the sale of land that HAL employees will receive Rs100 crore as loan, which will have to be repaid to the government.” A company official added that HAL has not received the amount, or part payment of the salaries.
 
 Besides sanctioning Rs100 crore to mitigate the “suffering and critical condition” of employees, on December 21, the government also approved a proposal to sell 87.7 acres of prime, vacant land by which the company could be revived. 
 
 According to the cabinet note, the land sale will meet the company’s net liabilities of Rs821.17 crore. 
 
 It will also help waive off government loans and interest amounting to Rs307.23 crore as well as defer various dues amounting to Rs128.68 crore.
 
 Immediately after the decision, HAMS had said the company must receive a minimum of Rs821 crore from sale of land. According to conditions laid down, only government agencies, like housing development authorities, should purchase the land through open competitive bidding. 
 
 HAMS had hailed the decision to revive the company saying that employees’ responsibility has increased further. “For the first time, the government has decided to sell land to revive the company. This is a turning point for employees and the company,” said HAMS office-bearers. 
 
 The ailing company had submitted a revival package of Rs670 crore to the then government in 2012. The proposal, which included a voluntary retirement scheme for 500 employees, is yet to be approved. 
 
 Besides HAL, the cabinet also approved sale of land of Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (IDPL),   (RDPL), and Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Limited (BCPL).
 
 
