PATNA: Former Bihar minister   has wondered why BJP functionary   is raking up an old non-issue at press conferences and not approaching his party’s government at Centre for action against the transfer of the railways’s Ranchi and Puri hotels to hotelier Kochars if it was a quid pro quo for a land gifted to   chief   by the Kochars.
 
  “If SuMo has evidences to prove it was a quid pro quo, why is he not demanding a probe from the minister for railways, who belongs to his party?” Tiwari asked at a press conference in Patna on Saturday.
  
  Referring to the series of allegations made by SuMo about Lalu getting lands and houses transferred in his family’s name in lieu of favours like ministerial berth and election ticket, Tiwari said SuMo was not saying anything new. “Way back in 2008, the then Bihar minister Lalan Singh and I had shared this information with the media,” he said.
  
  “Lalan later informed me he and JD(U)’s then president Sharad Yadav had also met then   with these documents in 2008 and sought a probe. But these documents proved nothing,” Tiwari said and added SuMo was aware of all this.
  
  The septuagenarian, who has quit party-based politics, even called SuMo names. “He is a lowly neta. It is his old habit to fabricate allegations against rivals,” he said and recalled he as an MLA had the other day gone looking for SuMo in the assembly to hit him with his shoe after the BJP functionary had berated him.
  
  Tiwari alleged SuMo tried to implicate his son Rahul Tiwari, currently RJD MLA, in the case of murder of BJP vice-president Bisheshwar Ojha. “My son had approached a lawyer to file a defamation suit, but I advised him not to join issues with a petty politician,” said Tiwari, also a former MP.
  
  According to the Tiwari, SuMo was raising the non-issue afresh perhaps to create a divide between Lalu and CM Nitish Kumar. “That is why he is continuously prodding Nitish to act against Lalu’s minister sons Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav,” he said and added the nefarious design of SuMo was aimed at destroying Lalu from Bihar’s political arena.
