Mumbai:   chairman   said on Friday the market watchdog may further tighten rules governing   (P-Notes), which are a financial derivative product used by foreign investors to bypass the regulatory system when entering the Indian market. He also said the regulator is working to cut down the time taken for companies to list their shares on the exchanges post public offerings to four days from six days now.

 P-Notes had been identified by a special investigation team (SIT) — looking into the menace of black money under orders from the   — as one of the probable routes that facilitate generation and use of unaccounted funds. “SIT is constantly monitoring the P-Note data and is not very comfortable with the current process of issue and administration of the same. Further tightening of norms governing P-notes could happen to address the concerns of  ,” Sinha said.
 
 He was delivering the inaugural speech at the international conference on certification and capacity building in financial markets at the   campus at Patalganga near the city. He launched a certification course being offered jointly by NISM and   Analytics, a global research and analytics firm. 
 
 On the period between a public offering’s close to listing, Sinha said, “A Sebi team is already working to bring the timeline down to T+4 days.” When Sinha took over as Sebi chairman in 2011, companies used to take about 21 days to list their shares after a public offering. Since then, using technological innovations in the banking and financial services space, Sebi has cut this timeline drastically to six days. 
 
 On P-Notes, Sinha pointed out that its regulation has seen a complete overhaul since 2011, and under the current structure it is on a par with norms for registered foreign investors. Recently, Sebi even put in place rules that now require P-Note holders to report intra-month change of ownership, if any. Earlier, P-Note holders and issuers were required to report holdings on an end-of-the-month basis.
 
 Talking about the regulator’s approach to P-Notes, another top Sebi official said, “P-Notes should be killed.” There have been instances where Indian companies and individuals used the P-Note route to invest in the Indian market to save on taxes and also to use their ill-gotten money to make an extra profit or manipulate stock prices.
 
 Speaking about having a large pool of trained personnel in the securities market, Sinha stressed on the need for high quality certification. “NISM is going to focus on the area of research. Stock exchanges and the entire Sebi system have a lot of data, which is relevant and unique to our country. Based on those data, a very high quality of advanced research is required,” Sinha said. “And one of the mandates of NISM is to develop the research capability,” he said. NISM is a Sebi-sponsored institute for imparting high-end professional education, certifications, training and research in Indian financial markets.
 
 During his interaction with the media on the sidelines of the conference, Sinha clarified that the responsibility of identifying ‘fit & proper’ investors to invest in stock exchanges had been entrusted to depositories. Though it was impossible to identify ‘fit & proper’ persons among those who held only a few shares, he added that Sebi would not hesitate to investigate if it received any complaint even if the person held only one share.
 
 ‘Fit & proper’ criteria defines the qualitative aspects of the investors who can invest in an exchange. Under the current rule, anyone holding 1% or more in an exchange should meet the fit & proper criteria under Sebi rules. If an entity doesn’t meet the criteria, the regulator has the power to force that entity to divest the stake in the exchange.
 
 
