MUMBAI: The   on Friday dismissed a special leave petition (SLP) filed by Maharashtra government to challenge a Bombay   stay on its compulsory   rule for   (PG)   admissions. The apex court has extended the last date for the counselling round of the   process for the first merit list to May 9 from May 7.

 The SC bench, which had read the state SLP, said it was “confirming” the high court order. The SC dismissal meant the state would have to issue a fresh merit-based list of candidates selected for PG medical seats in all its colleges. 
 
 The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) released the new list post 9pm on Friday. Students who were allotted seats according to the earlier policy will now have to report to the alloted institutions till May 9 and secure their seats. Colleges have been asked to remain open even on Sunday to allow students to take admissions.
 
 The state now plans to ensure that the domicile policy is successfully implemented next year for PG courses through an amendment in their exisiting legislation. It also plans to release a resolution well in advance to implement it successfully in the under-graduate admissions that will commence in June. At the under-graduate level, domicile was made mandatory last year in private and government colleges. The state, though, will now have to take steps to introduce the policy in deemed universities as well, said Pravin Shingare, director, DMER. 
 
 At a special rare hearing last Sunday, the high court had stayed the state’s April 27-28 fresh rules and notice on domicile. The state had modified the rules to make domicile mandatory for PG seats to address a serious problem of shortage of doctors in its public health schemes across Maharashtra, especially in smaller districts and towns. The object was to allow only domiciled graduates admission to PG in medicine, as they would continue to remain in the state and fill the shortage of doctors.
 
 The change in rule, though, was done at the fag end of the admission process, observed the high court, after the petitioners, four medical graduates from colleges in the state, said it would render hundreds of students from outside the state ineligible for admission. 
 
 A “disappointed’’ parent of a student, who is domiciled in Maharashtra, said the “state could have handled the issue in a better way”. Advocate Pooja Thorat, who appeared for non-domiciled students said the state’s change of rules at a time when only the final merit list was due was abitrary and discriminatory as All India Quota students had already applied for PG seats.
 
 The high court holiday bench of Justices S S Kemkar and A M Badar, in its interim order, had found the state’s sudden and belated decision “arbitrary and unsustainable,’’ especially given its timing. Students domiciled in Maharashtra, whose names featured on the final merit list published last Sunday, were unhappy. Their concern, as one parent said later, is that since other states also make it difficult for non-domiciled students to seek admission, it leaves them in an unenviable position of possible denial of admission in their home state and elsewhere too. The state argued that it is “empowered to prescribe state quota seats in government colleges, private unaided colleges, deemed university and minority institutions”. A state aspirant said she had earlier got into Sion’s LTMG College but after the revised list was put up, she will get into Grant Medical College. Another said a lot of students may have been pushed to colleges outside Mumbai or the state too.
 
 
