UKHRUL: "I used to be a footballer, now I am a political beggar." We're driving down from Ukhrul's bumpy, unpaved roads in  's hill districts into the capital  , and you cannot really tell if the heaving vehicle is causing Somatai Shaiza's head to bob or that he's nodding to himself on getting his own introduction for his current avatar spot on.
 
 There are clearly two different elections taking place in Manipur. The Hindu-dominated, Congress-controlled Imphal valley, where 40 of the 60 assembly seats will be contested, is a complete electoral ecosystem by itself. Anger over the crippling 110-day blockade called by the United Naga Council over the creation of seven new hill districts by chief minister Ibobi Singh, has dominated the electoral dialogue. Relations between the Meiteis and the Naga-dominated hill regions, never the warmest in normal times are said to be at their lowest-ever ebb. The ruling  's card calls for preserving the territorial integrity of the Manipuris as and when contents of the centre's framework agreement with the Nagas will be revealed. The BJP's reluctance to spell out detail of the agreement with the Nagas and the lack of a chief ministerial face, is being gleefully cashed in on by Ibobi Singh's campaign.
  
 Yet, the narrative dramatically changes as the National Highway 150 winds upward some 80 kms north-west of Imphal into the hill areas. Amid the anger over the contentious bills over territory and land rights and continuing historical polarisation, the talk in villages is of more pressing everyday concerns -- lack of running water, a school but no building and no roads. Shaiza's claim about a once-proud footballer now being a political beggar begins to fall in place. "Look, you cannot hope to represent the voice of the hills if you are not aligned to a central party," says the former   and Churchill Brothers footballer who was once quite a rebel. "We have seen the plight of the regional parties representing the hills. The composition of seats in the Manipur assembly and the Meitei hold has ensured that alienation. It leaves us with little choice. Manipur tends to vote for the party that is at the centre as we depend on their generosity. This time, in the hills too are we are looking to seize that opportunity."
  
 In these hazy, rainy hills, just the kind of setting that may have inspired Led Zep's Misty Mountain Hop, Shaiza, BJP's candidate from 44-Ukhrul, is addressing a group of villagers in Shokvao village in their roomy community hall. The hall looks bigger because of the sparse attendance, but the entire village is present. There are a mere 460 voters from this tiny Thankul hamlet of 140 families, but each one of them will count. In the hill districts, anger against the ruling Congress is so great that the tribal outfits have warned them not to contest, yet, Shaiza finds himself up against the Congress-backed might of a popular, young hopeful in Alfred Kan-Ngam Arthur. Then there is the clear influence of the state unit of the Naga People's Front, and Shaiza's task is well and truly cut out. Former footballers from the state, teammates and club rivals alike, have formed an informal guild to help raise funds for Shaiza but even they know it is an uphill battle. The polls will decide the future of the 42-year-old, who belongs to a political family. Nephew of former chief minister Yangmasho Shaiza who was killed allegedly by the NSCN, Shaiza had first contested in 2012 as a TMC candidate but didn't fare too well. "Mamata wave. We gave it a try," he grins.
  
 But this time, says Shaiza, he is confident as his choice of political colour mirrors the mood of the hills. The Nagas are even willing to risk the Christian identity by aligning with the BJP. "You know what the Bible says, even the enemy is a friend," suggests a Shaiza aide, gospel music alternating between Emraan Hashmi songs on his car stereo as he leads the two-car convoy into the compound of the Mayophung Baptist Church for Shaiza to have an unscheduled audience with the pastor. The pastor is not at home, else it would have made for interesting viewing - Christian Naga leaders seeking blessings as BJP hopefuls. As if understanding the apprehensions over the Hindu-majoritarian party's growing presence and larger aims in the region, local BJP leaders have been pre-empting and assuaging those fears. "The BJP is not anti-Christian," Dr Khasim, an ex-MLA said in the local press recently. 
  
 "We are not unduly worried of that threat. Our bigger concern is the more pressing issues of the hills," says Shaiza. "Also, no party is communal at the time of elections. Let's get the elections out of the way first," he wearily adds. Clearly, his once-famous rebel image is wearing off. 
  
 A midfield mainstay for top Indian clubs in the 1990s and 2000s, Shaiza was always a talented but temperamental footballer more known for his run-ins with coaches than his undeniable playmaking skills. There is this famous story of him refusing to cut his hair at the insistence of the National coach and being ordered out of the camp. Only 22 and in his prime, Shaiza would never be selected for the National team, but his legend grew in football circles with smart coaches using his outspokenness to make him leader of their teams. Today, two decades later, he's carefully eschewing that same image in pursuit of his current calling. "I have mellowed a lot. Politics has taught me to," he says, "Let's see, maybe that old guy will return. I'm a better leader than I'll ever be a politician, but let's win this first…"
 
