LUDHIANA: The   have arrested the vice-president of rural wing of   for circulating the video of a singer and politician on social networking sites,  , and on a   on Friday. The accused has been identified as   of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar of Chandigarh Road here, who is also a property dealer. The accused had actively participated in the election campaign, while the lady (a Congress candidate) was contesting from the Sahnewal constituency for the 2017 assembly elections. 

 A case under sections 66E (intentionally or knowingly capturing, publishing, or transmitting the image of a private area of any person without his or her consent, under circumstances violating the privacy of that person), 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form), 67-A (publishing or transmitting material containing sexually explicit act in electronic form) of Information Technology Act, 354-C (any man who watches, or captures the image of a woman engaging in a private act), 500 (defamation) and 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the IPC and Section 6 of Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, have been registered against him at the Koom Kalan police station.
 
 Importantly, the video had gone viral on social media, just before the announcement of candidates in the Congress party. The lady singer immediately complained to police commissioner Ludhiana against it, after which an inquiry was marked in the case. Her brother said the video was 
  in a WhatsApp group named ‘Tigers Group’, which was further shared in other groups.
 
 In her complaint, the singer-politician said the morphed video was circulated on social media to malign her reputation, following a conspiracy. She said: “The conspiracy was planned to malign my reputation. I have faced defeat in the elections because of it.” An official from the police department said: “During investigation, it was identified that the accused wanted to contest from the Sahnewal constituency. However, she was given a ticket, after which the accused was fuming.”
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Dhruman Nimbale said: “The case has been registered after investigation, and the accused has been arrested. However, Mohan Singh has denied having captured or circulated the video.” He told police he agreed that the video was circulated from his phone number, but some other person might have done it, as he said he leaves his phone in the car at times. When asked if the video was morphed or not, the DCP replied: “It is yet to be identified. Besides, the Cybercrime Cell will further deal with the porn website for further investigation.” The singer had lost the election to SAD candidate Sharanjit Singh Dhillon.
 
