Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has not taken any cognizance of a newborn death allegedly due to lack of neonatal intensive care facilities at its Pachpaoli Maternity Hospital. Nor does it have any immediate plan to recruit staff and make available necessary equipment to save newborns and delivery patients at its hospitals. TOI on Monday reported the death of a male infant. Former corporator Murlidhar Meshram alleged the infant delivered by a resident of Gaddigodam Neha Amit Mukhiya (28) died due to NMC’s negligence. He also lodged a complaint with mayor Nanda Jichkar and additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare. Jichkar told TOI she would look into the case soon. “We need is to know the reason behind death of the newborn before initiating any inquiry or action,” she said without telling how the reason would be known without an inquiry. On the lack of staff and equipment at Pachpaoli Maternity Hospital, Jichkar said NMC was planning to develop the hospital under the central government’s National Urban Health Mission (NUHM). “Plan is to develop it into community health centre under NUHM. Staff will be recruited after NMC’s new Establishment Schedule, also called Staffing Pattern, is approved by the state government,” she said. The 10-bed hospital lacks even basic staff like gynaecologist, paediatrician, anaesthetist, and equipment like sonography and infant warmer. Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) is a distant dream it as it lacks intensive care facilities for female patients in the first place. Mothers and newborns are referred to other hospitals in case of any complication. NUHM too is a distant dream for NMC. Under the mission, the civic body was supposed to establish 50 public health centres (PHCs) which would have outdoor patient department (OPD) and 10 community health centres (CHCs) which would be indoor hospitals with 200 beds each in four years from 2013-14 and completing in 2016-17. Till date, only 26 PHCs have been set up while not a single CHC has come up.