Not many are aware that   has its own indigenous breed of buffalo that is raised by the Toda tribes in the Nilgiris. The milk of the buffalo — known as the Toda buffalo — is known for its high fat content and can be reared at a very low cost. It has adaptive qualities that make it resistant to diseases and enables it to withstand extreme climate. The breed, however, is an endangered one with numbers less than 2000. ‘Animal Genetic Resources of Tamil Nadu’, a coffee table book published by the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) documents many such details on the local breeds of   and   found in Tamil Nadu. The book documents five indigenous breeds of cattle, a breed of buffalo, 14 breeds of sheep/goats and four breeds of dogs. 

 The book that familiarizes readers with the cattle breeds of Kangayam, Umblachery, Pulikulam, Bargur and Alambadi describes their references in folklore and relevance in local traditions. The Pulikulam breed for instance is commonly used in jallikkattu. Found in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts, cattle of this breed despite their resemblance with the Kangayam breed, are comparatively smaller in size. Herds of this breed of cattle are penned on harvested fields for their dung, to generate manure for organic farming. They require very low or zero input management while rearing.
 
 "Kangayam is an excellent draught breed that is known for its sturdiness. It is found in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Dindigul, Karur and Namakkal districts. The striking characteristics of this breed are its thick neck, short and strong limbs and well-sprung barrel," says professor R Rajendran from the directorate of research at the TANUVAS. He says it took the team of researchers one and a half years to collect the data for the publication. 
 
 The 11 breeds of sheep documented in the book are Madras Red, Mecheri, Ramnad White, Vembur, Kalakarsal, Tiruchy black, Coimbatore, Nilgiri, Katchaikatty Black, Chevvadu and Pattanam while the local   breeds are Kanni Adu, Kodi Adu and Salem Black. The Madras Red breed is found in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheeuram and Villlupuram districts. 
 
 The book that features the dog breeds of Rajapalayam, Chippiparai, Kombai and Kanni talks about their origin and role in hunting and wars. While Rajapalayam dogs were used during the Polygar wars to attack the British cavalry while the Kombai breed is known for being used by the army of Marudhu brothers, rulers of Sivagangai in the 19th century. 
 
 
