From top: Rescuers on the roof of the house and with ADG   after managing to capture the two cats in a special cage
The animals had been creating a ruckus in the British-era building for the past six months
 
 Despite extensive urbanisation, Pune remains still home to many unique mammals, the   being one of them. For additional director general of police (wireless) Ritesh Kumar, however, some of these cats seem to have become rather too attached to his residence, and have been eluding   for the past six months. The cats were finally rescued on Wednesday after much effort.
 
 The century-old house, with a sprawling campus, is located near the Council Hall in Pune Camp. The house has a gap between its false ceiling and roof, which the animals are using as a playground.
 
 “The family of civets used to make a lot of noise at night. Once, the ceiling had even cracked. We tried calling wildlife rescue volunteers, but they could not be trapped. Being nocturnal animals, they come out mainly at night,” said Kumar. He added that there is a lot of greenery adjoining the house, which these animals use as their habitat. “It’s a good thing that they are moving about in the adjoining areas which is their natural habitat. We never bother them, but when they started coming inside, it became a problem. Hence, we were forced to call the welfare volunteers,” said Kumar.
 
 Earlier, the family had even contacted the Katraj Rescue Centre who had sent a volunteer, but the animals proved to be elusive. “I had visited the spot, but the campus is large and the animals had a lot of space to escape into,” said Anil Avchite, a volunteer from the city who had visited through the Katraj Rescue Centre.
 
 Finally, complaints were made to the   and volunteers came to check it out. “These civets were not in their natural habitat. Therefore, rescuing them and releasing them in their natural habitat was absolutely necessary. However, we will monitor their behaviour first for a couple of days and then release them,” said Mahesh Bhavsar, assistant conservator of forests in the Pune forest division.
 
 Capturing them proved to be a Herculean task. “We received the complaInt on January 6. But, for the first two days, there was no sight of the cats and we couldn’t even figure how they were coming inside,” said Ravi Lohire, a member of the Wildlife Welfare Association in Pune, who conducted the rescue operation along with volunteers Suresh Lohire and Sharad Surkule.
 
 Finally on January 8, they were given a camera trap by the forest department, which was placed on the roof. However, the camera trap could not trace the movement of the cats either. Finally, the rescuers themselves kept watch at night.
 
 “We finally saw the cats and traced their movement to figure out where they were coming from. Once that was done, we got specially designed cages for the animals from Mumbai and used fish as bait. This did the trick and we were finally able to capture the cats. One cat was caught during the wee hours of Tuesday, the second on Wednesday,” added Lohire.
 
 
