 and   have an interesting, and still not completely understood relationship. In some reports, it has been suggested that atorvastatin use can actually increase, or contribute to, an increased vitamin D status. Also, results from various studies have shown that both the effectiveness of atorvastatin and outcomes related to atorvastatin use are improved by vitamin D.

 Vitamin D deficiency is a risk factor for osteoporosis and other chronic diseases, including type 1 diabetes, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and ischemic heart disease. Atorvastatin are one of the most commonly prescribed medications used mainly for lowering cholesterol. However, it is also prescribed in patients with autoimmune disorders,  , and cardiovascular conditions. A study evaluated the possible effect of atorvastatin on vitamin D levels in patients with acute ischemic heart disease. Results showed that after treatment with atorvastatin, there was a substantial decrease in   and triglyceride levels and an increase in vitamin D levels. This explains some of the beneficial effects of atorvastatin at the cardiovascular level that are unrelated to cholesterol levels.
 
 A study called APPE analysed the effects of vitamin D supplementation on lowering cholesterol levels. Results demonstrated that vitamin D reduced the levels of LDL cholesterol only among those taking atorvastatin. This was the first time in lupus (a cardiac disorder), the researchers found that vitamin D status may affect response to atorvastatin in cardiovascular risk over time. Another study determined vitamin D supplementation effects on concentrations of atorvastatin and cholesterol in patients. The conclusion of the study suggested that vitamin D supplementation lowers atorvastatin concentrations yet has synergistic effects on cholesterol concentrations. One study suggested that sufficient vitamin D concentrations might be required for atorvastatin to reduce   in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
 
 Vitamin D is new rock star in field of medicine. A sufficient amount of vitamin D is important for good bone and cardiac health Statins are probably the perfect team mate for optimum CV outcome. Vitamin D has synergistic effect with atorvastatin for lowering cholesterol, lupus and myocardial infarction.
 
 A perfect team work of both is best to lower incidence and reduce mortality in CV disease. Both have synergistic effects and lower side effects.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
