MUMBAI: Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece   lambasted the BJP on Saturday for “conveniently forgetting its larger Hindutva theme”. The remarks come two days after the   called off its 20-year-old pre-poll alliance with the BJP.

 “Those who came to power in the name of Hindutva and the Lord Ram temple...and sold bottles of water from river Ganga are now ready to banish our Gods from the state,” said an editorial, referring to a circular that was issued by the   regime to stop the display of pictures of deities in government offices and schools. Mantralaya on Friday hurriedly withdrew the circular after protests from Sena ministers. 
 
 “The Sena is a diamond...it would not be in the company of bugs who have swept Maharashtra’s dignity under the carpet,” stated the article.
 
 Recalling that Chhatrapati Shivaji protected ‘dharma’, Saamna said that the legendary king didn’t play politics with ‘dharma’... . He protected Hindu Gods from the Mughals...however, the present government is behaving like the Mughals...it has begun attacking its own Gods in this era of swaraj.”
 
 “This government doesn’t want to protect the  ...they want to perform ‘aarti’ of   ... . They don’t want to promote ‘dharma’, they are only keen on increasing their share of seats ... . They want to flaunt their secular credentials by circumcising the whole of India,” said Saamna. The saffron daily also alleged that the Fadnavis government was building the Shivaji memorial in the Arabian Sea only for political profit.
 
 Political observers said that the editorial’s focus on Hindutva was an attempt by the Sena to go beyond its Marathi pale and wean Gujaratis as well as north Indians from the BJP in the upcoming BMC elections. The Sena can’t hope to retain the country’s richest municipal corporation by clinging to its fast-depleting Marathi vote-bank, added the observers. 
 
 The editorial accused the BJP of stabbing the Sena in the back even as the latter suffered “indignities for the cause of Hindutva and in the larger interest of the state”.
 
 Pointing out that the BJP-Sena alliance had breathed its last during the 2014 assembly elections, Saamna said that since then, the two parties lived on hollow equations. “Maharashtra has heaved a sigh of relief following the Sena’s decision to break the poll alliance with the BJP,” it stated. “The Sena is not born for a few crumbs of power...ours is a party of bravehearts ... . We have blown the trumpet for the upcoming war on the strength of our selfless and courageous party workers,” said Saamna. “The Sena is akin to a volcano which will never die,” the morninger remarked.
 
 
