GURUGRAM: There are 10,552   generators in Millennium City upon which denizens depend for power back up, according to the response of an   filed by activist Aseem Takyar on April 20, 2017.

 According to the RTI reply, the 10,552 gensets have been installed by 3,303 entities, both residential and commercial, after obtaining necessary permits from the office of the electrical inspectorate. While these diesel generators have capacities ranging from 62.5 kVA to 1,500 kVA, most generators installed in residential and commercial entities are rated above 500 kVA. 
 
 Calling it “disastrous” for the air quality of the entire NCR, Vaishnavi Chaturvedi, a retired environmental engineer, said, “As per a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) study, diesel gensets contribute 6% to the particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in Delhi-NCR’s air, and 10% of PM10. That’s why, when the Delhi government took emergency measures to control the city-state’s air pollution, its pollution control committee banned use of diesel generators. However, rampant use of these gensets in NCR cities continues to prove disastrous for the entire region.”
 
 Niranjan Raje, a resident of Sushant Lok 1 and a former member of Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA), said, “Emission from 10,000 diesel generators is equivalent to that from 50,000 heavy duty trucks. Trucks are on the go from one city to another, so their impact is distributed. But gensets are stationary, and can have severe impact on the city’s air quality. Apart from PM levels, diesel generators also lead to increase in oxides of nitrogen in the lower atmosphere.”
 
 The RTI response also stated authorities don’t have any data on those generators in the city that are unlicensed. “I asked for data on how many individuals/organisations haven’t obtained permission from the department to install diesel generators, and if notices have been issued to them for running diesel generators without permission. However, no such information is available with the authorities,” said Aseem Takyar, who filed the RTI.
 
 “It is likely the actual number of diesel generators may be more than 10,000, as there is no count of generators installed on terraces and backyards of homes. The pollution control board has never taken any action against them. No steps have been taken to spread awareness about pollution from these, either. It seems emissions by diesel generators aren’t even considered in the city’s anti-pollution guidelines,” alleged Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist.
 
 “There aren’t any ‘highly polluting industries’ in the city. Diesel generators in residential and commercial units also don’t cause much pollution. But if we receive any complaint on over-usage of gensets or violation of norms, we take strict and immediate action,” said a HSPCB (Haryana State Pollution Control Board) official.
 
 The city has more than 900 residential societies, including highrises, and over 5,000 commercial and industrial entities, more than 80% of which are dependent on diesel generators for power backup. According to an estimate, diesel gensets produce over 80.75MW of power on an average in New   alone, where the average daily power shortfall is nearly 103MW.
 
 
