His steps were brisk as a major traffic jam on the   had delayed him. He entered the   just minutes before the race began. Soon, the race started and the 67-year-old   since 1972, was ecstatic as the one he bet on galloped away to glory. Moments later,   was busy predicting the outcome of the next set of races.

 Welcome to the world of horse punters, who live and breathe this sport. 
 
 Ramesh claims to have been employed with the slum clearance board in the late 70s but couldn’t continue job as it came in the way of his passion. “I left my job as I didn’t find much happiness in it. My true calling was in punting. The decision was a bold move as none of my family members were in favour. However, my son, an employee with a multinational company, is a pillar of support. He never stops me from following my heart,” says Ramesh.
 
 While Ramesh hails from the old school of punters who often risked jobs to pursue their passion, their modern-day counterparts are a lot different. The new-age punters are well-informed and smart enough not to put all their eggs in one basket. “I got hooked to horse racing by the time I turned 12, and started betting 3 years ago. I am employed with an IT firm and track races on the internet. I know how to balance and wouldn’t put my job at stake to pursue punting,” says 27-year-old Raja.
 
 One interesting thing about punters – both old and new- is that they are bitten by the ‘superstition’ bug. The practice ranges from betting on horses whose name starts with a particular alphabet, not punting on horses which are grey in colour, to carrying a lucky pen and so on. Late turf baron   in a 2015 TOI interview revealed his set of superstitions. “I won’t buy a horse with an ‘asudar’ (cross) mark on its forehead as it brings bad luck,” he said. 
 
 However, most punters don’t reveal their passion for fear of being misjudged. “Punting is still a taboo in our society as most are unaware of the nuances of it,” Raja says.
 
 In 2016-17 season, as the racing circuit was foraying into the post-MAM era, there came demonetisation. For four days races were called off in Chennai. However, once it commenced, the club officials were in for a surprise. “Contrary to what we had thought, there was a deluge of people waiting to get back on Day 1 itself. What surprised us more was the presence of new Rs 2000 notes with a majority of them,” said one club member.
 
 A club official said the current season, which will end on Wednesday, has seen a lot of interest among the punters. “We have had about 3,600 punters entering the racing premises each day. The number last year was about 1,900,” said the official.
 
 
