NAGPUR: There seems to be a contradiction in the claims made by the Nagpur Society for Prevention of   (NSPCA) and inspection reports submitted by the district collector in the Nagpur bench of  .

 In a reply to the petition filed by animal welfare activist Ankita Shah before the High Court, district collector Sachin Kurve submitted inspection reports of the animal shelter run by the NSPCA. Following collector’s directives, a committee had inspected the animal shelter at Gittikhadan last year.
 
 Though the shelter was supposed to be home for sick and injured animals, the reports stated that 40 dogs that were sheltered that time were healthy. The team further found out that pet owners were allowed keep their dogs at the shelter for Rs250 per day.
 
 Kurve, who is one of the respondents, further informed the court that he had again directed the committee to inspect the shelter in December 2016. As per the latest visit report, the ambulance at the shelter was found to be non-functional. 
 
 As per the undertaking given by the organization to   (AWBI), for getting grant-in-aid under the scheme for provision of ambulance, NSPCA has to utilize the ambulance purely for helping animals in distress or accident cases. Though ideally the NGO can never refuse calls for rescuing injured or sick animals, there have been cases when animal lovers complained that staffers refused to admit injured animals.
 
 The report said that workers at the shelter did not seem to be aware of AWBI’s mandate for running it. 
 
 In December 2015, TOI had also reported that the ambulance owned by the organization was hardly used for rescuing animals.
 
 However, according to the society’s Memorandum of Association given to the charity commissioner’s office during the registration process, the main objective of the society was to prevent cruel treatment to animals and provide first-aid when required. 
 
 The memorandum clearly stated that the “society will be entirely a charitable and non-profit making body which will not engage in commercial practices”. This seems to be contrary to the findings of the inspection team.
 
 The petitioner has alleged that the society is trying to mislead the authorities. “How can it rescue sick and injured animals when the ambulance is not working? Medical services are not provided free of cost at the shelter,” Shah said. 
 
 In May 2015, Shah had submitted a complaint to CM Devendra Fadnavis following which NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle had asked NSPCA if wounded dogs from Bhandewadi shelter could be shifted at NSPCA. 
 
 In reply, secretary of NSPCA had stated that the animal shelter was occupied. But in another letter to the NMC's deputy director (health), NSPCA had claimed it was attending to rescue calls, and animals brought to the shelter were being treated free of cost.
 
 SHELTER UNDER SHADOW
 
 What the reports say
 
 * 40 dogs sheltered at NSPCA’s animal shelter were healthy
 
 * Pet owners allowed to keep their dogs at the shelter for Rs 250 per day
 
 * Ambulance meant for rescuing sick and injured animals was not functioning
 
 * Workers not aware of AWBI’s mandate
 
 What   says
 
 * Main objective of the society is to prevent cruel treatment to animals and provide first-aid when required
 
 * The society will not engage in commercial practices
 
 
