Nagpur: Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) Dean Dr Meenakshi Gajbhiye (Wahane) was caught by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) while allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 15,000 for clearing medicines bill on Monday. The ACB also caught a private person Vijay Uditnarayn Mishra (44), who runs a mess at new residents’ hostel, for accepting bribe that he claimed was on behalf of Gajbhiye. ACB superintendent of police Sanjay Darade told TOI Gajbhiye and Mishra were arrested and will be placed before the court on Tuesday. ACB registered an offence against the two in Tehsil police station under relevant sections. According to ACB, the complainant in the case was a drug supplier and had supplied medicines worth Rs 2,94,660 to IGMCH in December last year. “IGMCH invited tenders for supply of medicines in July 2015. The complainant was lowest bidder and so was awarded the contract. He submitted the bills at the office of dean on December 12 last year. When he went to meet Gajbhiye to clear his bill, she demanded a bribe of Rs 15,000 for clearing it,” said ACB. An ACB press release said, “Complainant had no interest in giving her bribe and lodged a complaint with us on January 10. Accordingly, ACB team from Nagpur and Gondia investigated the matter and laid a trap on January 16.” “Gajbhiye demanded Rs 15,000 for clearing the bill and asked the complainant to hand over the amount to Mishra, through whom she accepted the bribe,” said ACB. Gajbhiye took over as IGMCH dean on July 25 last year. She began her career with Government Medical College, Ambejogai, as lecturer in 1981 and at her last posting was head of radiology department at Grant Medical College and J J Hospital Mumbai.  Her colleagues in the college, though, expressed shock over the news and said it might be a conspiracy against her. They claimed Mishra was not on good terms with Gajbhiye for the last months. She had actually warned him of terminating his mess contract as he was not supplying good quality food. A professor from IGMCH told TOI, “Students from the hostel had several times complained of bad quality food served in mess and the dean had warned Mishra of terminating his contract. It is hard to believe she would partner Mishra in such an act.” A month ago, Gajbhiye was in another controversy when she was locked out of her office by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists, of whom one was IGMCH board of visitors member. It was a protest against poor services in the hospital.