KOLKATAZ: St Xavier’s University on Friday started the first academic session on its New Town campus. Present on the occasion, LN Mittal, the chairman and CEO of ArcelorMittal and one of the most illustrious alumni of the college, donated the The Lakshmi & Usha Mittal Foundation Building (Academic Block) to his alma mater. 

 “St Xavier’s College instilled the confidence in me to take bold decisions in life which gave me the courage to leave my country and venture into Indonesia. I may not have been able to achieve all that I have had not St Xavier’s instilled the confidence in me,” said Mittal.
 
 Sharing his experience with the aspiring students of the university, Mittal advised them to reach for the stars but to keep their feet grounded. “Have ambitions and believe that you can achieve your dreams but stay grounded. Being smart is not enough but integrity, values and appreciation to do the right things hold the key to success,” he added.
 
 “I run the world’s largest steel company, employing 2 lakh people across 60 countries. But one thing which worries me is disruptions", Mittal said during his address at the ceremony. Mittal, who graduated from the college with a first class in BCom, added: “It is important to learn and meet the challenges of disruptions.”
 
 Appreciating the efforts of vice-chancellor Fr. Felix Raj to set up the university, Mittal added, “It takes a lot of determination and hard work to make vision turn into a reality. His vision is to make St Xavier’s the best institute in the country.”
 
 Chief minister  , who was the chief guest at the occasion, said: “Education makes one a real human being. Minority institutions have a very vital and important role. Christian institutions and  , for example, are known for the quality of education that they impart. All missionary schools and colleges, including St Xavier’s, provide good education. We are for all those who believe in human values. I believe, in three-four years, St Xavier’s would be able to compete with institutions like Harvard and Oxford.” 
 
 
