NAGPUR: Amid 180 tonnes of stone and a vast workspace, about 30 young sculptors from India are creating models which reflect their creativity and vision at the national sculpture workshop organized by South Central Zone Cultural Centre ( ) at MIDC, Hingna Road. 

 Artists are supposed to finish their sculptures before January 31 after which some will be shifted to major crossroads in the city and others displayed on SCZCC premises at Civil Lines.   will curate the sculptures at the end of the workshop.
 
 Varieties of marble, granite, limestone and pink stone have been made available to the sculptors. The workshop has also become a place for inspiring stories and a platform for emerging women sculptors.
 
  (27) from Jaipur is creating an abstract form of sculpture — an umbrella with legs. “I am a Rajput. Initially, I did not get support from my family to pursue sculpturing. But I had made a decision.” Shekhawat’s model also reflects her experiences.
 
 Explaining her vision, she said, “I refer to umbrella as a small world. Usually people repress their desires. They are told “Don’t do this, don’t do that”. Our umbrella becomes our little world where we stay put. I want to give it legs so that the human inside it can choose a different path for itself,” she says.
 
  (25) hails from Delhi. She is exploring the theme of ‘Space’ and is using architectural form to carve a building. “When metro was being built in Delhi, a lot of cement was used, some bridges were broken and a good amount of trees were cut. That image has stayed with me. I want to discourage people from cutting trees,” she said.
 
 For Rajwinder Kaur (27) from Punjab, along with her friend  , this was her first workshop experience. A student of Bachelor of Fine Arts, she said she was enjoying every bit of her work.
 
 “I’ve chosen growth as a subject. In my family, we are a total of five sisters and one brother. Our limited thinking could have held us back, but I got the opportunity to venture out and share my knowledge with my family. I want my model to reflect this growth in me as a woman, and my thoughts.” 
 
