PUNE: Students of The Bishop’s School, Camp, and St Francis De Sales School participated in informative sessions aimed at spreading awareness on water conservation ahead of World Water Day, March 22.

 The sessions conducted by Col S G Dalvi (retd), director of rain water harvesting consultancy Parjanya, and district manager of an independent chapter of Al Gore’s climate reality project were part of a campaign initiated by NGO Walk for Water.
 
 The students also took a ‘Water Pledge,’ promising to conserve the natural resource and use it judiciously.
 
 Dalvi emphasized that only 1% of the freshwater reserve on the planet is available for humans and animals. He presented statistics of rainfall distribution in various parts of India. “The amount of water allotted per person per day by the municipal corporation is 135 litre,” Dalvi said. 
 
 To improve water availability, he suggested harvesting rainwater that falls on rooftops. “A catchment area of 1,000sqft in a household receives about 75,000 litres of water per year. This can be more than enough to meet the daily water needs of a family of five,” he added.
 
 He said that about 18,000 litres of water is wasted annually because of tap leakages. Many industries too consume a lot of water. He said the mindset of ‘use and discard water’ must change. Simple means of saving water at homes like using the leftover drinking water from a glass to water plants, avoiding excess use of water in washing cars and cleaning purposes were suggested.
 
 VPNCPS student bags third prize
 
 The working model of a human ear, designed by Sonit Sisolekar from Class V of Vidya Pratishthan’s Nanded City Public School (VPNCPS), fetched the third prize at the Young Explorer inter-school project competition organised by Muktangan Exploratory Science centre recently. Three students from VPNCPS were selected for the first round.
 
 Sisolekar qualified for the final round, where he designed the prototype showing the application of ‘Bone Anchored Hearing Aid’, based on bone conduction. It can be used by people who have conductive or unilateral hearing loss, single-sided deafness and people with mixed hearing loss who cannot wear ‘in the ear’ or ‘behind the ear’ hearing aids. He was guided by Sonia Kale and principal Nila Kharosekar.
 
 Sisolekar received the prize from L S Sashidhara, scientist and head of the department of biology at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune.
 
 Debate series at Magarpatta City
 
 Magarpatta City Public School recently launched an annual debate series in the memory of late justice T P Ghogale. The debate this year was chaired by Salvador D’Souza, business management expert and three other judges. The inter house debate contest for classes VIII and IX was held on the topic: ‘It is more important to be successful in life than in one’s own career’.   was declared the winning team, whereas the best speaker’s award was given to the two speakers of   House.
 
