PATNA: The untimely   led by Nor’wester might be comforting the residents, but the   developments are leading to problems of plenty for tillers.
 
  Agriculture experts say Nor’wester — sudden thundershowers in summer season, also known as   — is damaging the   in the agricultural fields. Two particular spells of Nor’wester thunderstorm on March 13 and 26 damaged the standing crops at many places in north Bihar. Hailstorm occurred at Bihta and a few other places in the state on Friday as well.
  
  “The prospect of a good yield of wheat is getting doused by frequent hailstorm and gale over the past few weeks. Wheat and pulses like ‘dalhan’ and ‘tilhan’ are likely to be worst-affected by the thunderstorm and hail activities. The gale (high-speed winds) is damaging the ear head or the upper part of the standing crops, whereas the overcast conditions is not allowing the necessary drying of the harvested crops, to allow their smooth threshing (to beat the stems and husks of grain or cereal plants with a machine or flail to separate the grains or seeds from the straw),” said Anil Jha, an agriculture expert in state  .
  
  Wheat is the main crop of the rabi season and, as per statistics provided by state agriculture department, its harvesting is normally done in March-April, whereas that of maize is done in April-May. Its procurement starts in May.
  
  The overall produce of maize in the rabi season in Bihar is normally around 9-10 lakh metric tonnes. Similarly, the average wheat product in the rabi season is around 60 lakh metric tonnes in the state.
  
  Agro-MeT experts have claimed that the frequency of Nor’wester thunderstorm is expected to be higher this summer. “It is expected that the average temperature would be 1-2 notches higher than the respective normal this summer season. Accordingly, it would lead to frequent Nor’wester activities as such weather situations occur after excessive heating of the atmosphere,” said Abdus Sattar, assistant professor of meteorology at Rajendra Agriculture University, Pusa, Samastipur.
