By a providential alignment of the stars,   happens to coincide with   this year. And so it promises to be a vibrant three days under March evening skies (and a full moon), amid the back-to-nature surrounds of the amphitheatre at  .

 The Utsav (Gurgaonites will be happy to learn) returns for its date with spring, after missing out on its autumn slot last year. And if past editions are any indicator, the city’s favourite festival of the performing arts is unlikely to disappoint.
 
 Holi is the theme this time around, with folk singer Malini Awasthi and classical and Sufi vocalist Dhruv Sangari coming together to celebrate the festival of colours. Excitingly, the Utsav will also host the premiere of ‘Khwaab Sa’, which gives a deliciously Indian twist to Shakespeare’s ever enchanting ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’.
 
 And it’s the surreal ‘Khwaab Sa’ that opens the Utsav. Award-winning director Atul Kumar presents one of Shakespeare’s most lighthearted pieces of drama through a psychedelic mirror of contemporary dance, Hindustani classical music and nautanki. Here, Oberon and Titania, king and queen of fairies, squabble in ‘raag’, while lovers express their tormented selves through choreography. “In our version, we decided to depict the three worlds within this play in three different forms,” reveals Kumar. “The lovers do not talk at all – they explore their journeys through contemporary dance, movement and gesture. The actors talk but they talk in gibberish that has a semblance to Hindi. And the fairies communicate operatically through song.” 
 
 Sangari, more fondly known as Bilal Chishty, will be performing with his band of musicians, the Rooh Sufi ensemble. Chishty combines an extensive knowledge of Hindustani classical music (which he began learning at age seven) with a Sufi sensibility. For, anyone who has trained at the feet of Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan cannot but be influenced by the all-embracing love for the divine that Sufism bestows upon its adherents.
 
 The Utsav winds down with the salt-of-the-earth folk of Awasthi, who combines potency of delivery with a modesty of manner to sing about the lives of ordinary people.
 
  (March 10 to 12) is being presented by the Arts and Literature Foundation in partnership with the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon, and the department of cultural affairs, Haryana, in association with ‘I am Gurgaon’.
 
 
