NEW DELHI: Few who lived in the vicinity of Chetan Cheetah’s home in   thought the 45-year-old   would ever return home. After 50 days of touch-and-go struggle against death at the  , Cheetah received a hero’s welcome on Wednesday when he reached his residence after being discharged from hospital.

 The neighbours had gathered in big numbers to receive the officer who managed to recover from deep coma and overcome multiple bullet injuries sustained during an operation against terrorists in Bandipora, J&K, on February 14. “I was always confident of Chetan’s recovery,” said  , the commandant’s wife. Her optimism had not been shared by very many in the hospital, but Uma explained, “Chetan is a fighter and he fought this battle with death as he does militants when in uniform.”
 
 The officer’s near-miraculous recovery was feted by many. “Fortune favours the brave. Extremely happy to know that 'Cheetah' has made a miraculous recovery,” tweeted union home minister Rajnath Singh, citing Tuesday’s story about the officer’s recovery carried by TOI.
 
 Singh’s deputy, union minister of state for home affairs Kiren Rijiju, visited AIIMS to meet the braveheart and his family on Wednesday. He later tweeted: “Miracle! Brave CRPF Comdt Chetan Kr Cheetah survived fatal bullet injuries in an encounter in J&K. Thanks AIIMS Doctors, salute his spirit.”
 
 In the few comments he made, Cheetah said he felt proud when army chief General Bipin Rawat and Rijiju visited him in recognition of his contribution to national security.
 
 Doctors at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where Cheetah spent a month in ICU in deep coma, told TOI that after bullet injuries on his head, wounds on his upper limbs and a ruptured right eye, the GCS score — a test to gauge the severity of brain injury — was a perilous M3. “His score is now a much better M6 and he is conscious and all vitals are stable,” said Dr Anurag Srivastava, chief of the centre.
 
 The CRPF commandant has two school-going children, who were overjoyed to see him home on Wednesday. Doctors said Cheetah would require regular physiotherapy and medical treatment for permanent recovery.
 
 
