On the occasion of Mother’s Day, we spoke to a few popular TV celebs and asked them to describe their mom in one sentence. Here is what they said:

 Urvashi Dholakia, who will be soon seen in yet another power packed role in Ekta Kapoor's 'Chandrakanta' affirmed that she has a great respect for all the mother's not just today but everyday. "As a child, we wake up every morning and get to work and start our day. But Mothers wake up and pray. They pray for our joyous life, they pray so that we can remain strong. If they sense any trouble coming at us, they cut it like a knife. We as children need to understand that she will 'always' be holding our hand," says Urvashi. Theflawless, firebrand actress further said, "A sentence can never describe my mother or any other mother. Words can never be enough. All I can say is Mom I will love you forever till eternity."
 
 Dashing Namish Taneja, who was last seen in ' ' said, "One sentence is just not enough, still if you ask me to describe my mom in one sentence, then it would be, 'Guardian angel and the pillar of strength.' She has always supported me and never cease to guide and protect me."
 
 'Student Of The Fame' actor Sahil Anand, who was last seen in 10th installment of 'Bigg Boss' quipped, "For me, my mom is like an oxygen, without her I can't even breathe. One sentence that describes my mother is 'Endless supply of unconditional and selfless love.'"
 
 Aasiya Kazi, who earlier did the shows like 'Bandini', 'Balika Vadhu', 'Na Bole Tum Na Maine Kuch Kaha 2', 'Dharampatni' and 'Hitler Didi' said, "My mom is the 'priceless jewel I am blessed with'." "Mother's works from morning until dawn, they do everything selflessly and perfectly. Their unfailing tenacity and devotion towards the family always leaves me astonished," said the pretty actress, who will be seen in a lead role in Rajan Shahi's upcoming show for Life OK. 
 
  said, "My mom is a 'friend', with whom I can share anything and everything without fear. She has always been there, through my ups and downs, and has stood up for me when no one else does. A tight hug and happy mother's day to all the beautiful moms."
 
 Shalini Arora, who is currently doing 'Ek Shringaar-Swabhimaan' said, "I don't have words to express my gratitude to reciprocate love or adoration, which I have received from my mom. I wondered, how come she sacrifices all her needs for us until I become mother. I realized, when you become a mother, you think less about yourself and care more about your child."
 
 "My mom is the 'selfless-caring-soul', these three words perfectly depict my mom," said the actress, who had earlier did the shows like Pavitra Rishta, Bhagyalakshmi, Balika Vadhu.
 
  
  
 
