Panaji: With the state considering refurbishment of the 2km Patto heritage causeway for pedestrianization, heritage lovers say an earlier proposal to declare the Latin quarter of Mala-Fontainhas and Ribandar and two other heritage properties as a world heritage site could be revived again.

  (GHAG), a local heritage organization in coordination with Archaeological Survey of India ( ), Goa, had come out with a proposal, recommending the Latin quarter of Panaji and Ribandar as an extension of Old Goa churches and convents, petroglyphs at Pansaimol (Quepem), Mauxi (Satari) and Cazur (Quepem) and the fertile khazan lands of Goa as world heritage sites.
 
 ASI, New Delhi, had sought suggestions on additional sites suitable for listing as world heritage sites in the tentative list from Goa in 2009. In a subsequent workshop on ‘World Heritage: Updating Tentative List of India’ held in association with   government and in consultation with advisory committee of world heritage matters (ACWHM), the profiles of the three sites had been presented for consideration.
 
 The proposal for Fontainhas to have a world heritage tag was backed by the Corporation of the City of Panaji, but it was not taken to its logical conclusion.
 
 Projected as one of the last bastions of a fast-disappearing Lusitanian culture, the Mala-Fontainhas-Ribandar site boasts of beautiful and quaint low-rise buildings, mostly over 100 to 150 years old and harmonious interaction. It also has indigenous and Portuguese cultures and other natural and cultural assets that need a special status for protection and conservation.
 
 ‘Old Goa (Velha Goa) had lost the characteristic of a living historic town in the 17th century due to epidemics. After a succession of cholera epidemics that reduce the population from its peak of 200,000, the settlement started to shifted to Panaji (Nova Goa) via Panelim and Ribandar wherein still archaic original setting can be noticed,’ the GHAG note stated.
 
 In the late 18th century, the marshy land in Mala was systematically reclaimed and settlements sprung up here. Within a few decades, the residential area grew into a dense agglomeration. ‘It became Asia's only Latin Quarter,’ the note states.
 
 The site of unique engravings, some dating back to late Mesolithic and Neolithic periods on Kushavati river banks in Pansaimol and the others in Mauxi, Satari and those in Cazur was the second site recommended for a world heritage status. The carvings on the laterite bedrock depict a variety of subjects, especially animals. The Kushavati river site covers approximately 4,000 sqm.
 
 The third site seeks conservation status for the cluster of 15 khazan zones in Bardez and   with a combined area of 3,400 hectares. These are Goa’s unique systems of bunds and sluice gates and considered engineering marvels.
 
 “All three sites merit a follow up as world heritage sites, especially khazan lands and the incredibly unique petroglyphs,” says Raya Shankwalker, architect and secretary of GHAG. Mala-Fontainhas is one of the oldest settlements in Panaji that was built by Goans incorporating Indo-Portuguese architecture. The first revitalization effort was initiated through the Fontainhas art festival that was held during the months of January and February 2003. “The first effort came in through private enterprise and achieved good results despite lack of government support, but the two other sites merit greater attention,” he said.
 
 An ASI official said that the Mala-Fontainhas site and even buildings housing the old hospital and college at Campal are a unique testimony to the erstwhile cultural tradition.
 
 “The site with its churches, charming houses, religious feasts and other facets are fast losing its heritage character and needs protection,” the official said.
 
 But, a heritage property owner in Fontainhas, Jack Sukhija said the world heritage status would bring in restrictions. “There are already living quarters. It has a heavy density of population and the restrictions would affect certain alterations and repairs to buildings,” he said.
 
 Atal mission for rejuvenation and urban transformation (Amrut) has proposed restoration in Panaji. “This scheme would cover the restoration of the area,” he said.
 
 The conservation of the city’s heritage areas is likely to be taken up through private initiative, Shankwalker said. “But, the government should extend support by creating more comprehensive conservation regulations,” he said.
 
