GUWAHATI: Kaziranga National Park authorities slapped the highest-ever penalty of Rs 5,000 on five vehicles for violation of speed limit on Thursday, the first day of the imposition of the fine to check casualty of animals coming out of the protected area for reaching the highlands in Karbi Anglong district by crossing   37. 

 "Two vehicles that were fined were   and three were personal cars. While one violator paid the amount, the remaining four did not as they did not have the amount on them. So, we are going to intimate the local court about their inability to pay the fine," Kaziranga divisional forest officer Rohini Ballab Saikia said.
 
 Although flood levels showed a receding sign on Thursday, animals - mostly elephant herds and hog deer - are crossing over the highway in search of elevated grounds in Karbi Anglong. Almost 45% of the 430-sq km area of the flood is inundated. Three hog deer where already killed in vehicle hit in last two days.
 
 The park authorities have imposed a 40 km per hour speed restriction on the 45-km stretch of NH 37 from Kohora to Amguri along the southern boundary of Kaziranga. "When the flood peaks, we will increase the stretch covered to 60 km from and bring down the speed limit to 30 km per hour," Saikia said.
 
 Kaziranga had to impose the highest-ever penalty amount following the quantum fixed by   (NGT)'s order last month which instructed that "challaned" vehicles should pay the "environmental compensation" of Rs 5,000 for "over-speeding and for killing animals". The order also said the fine amount is over and above the amount to be paid for the offence under the Motor Vehicle Act. 
 
 Interceptor vehicles were used to check the speed limit. "I am doubtful whether the interceptor vehicles have night vision facilities. Moreover, the rumble strips to reduce speed of vehicles were not properly repaired on the stretch of highway which animals frequently use for migration. What I have seen on the spot is that only forest department officials are bearing the burden of checking speed. The NGT order also involves transport and public works department. I did not find any officials from the transport or public works department on Thursday," environment activist Rohit Choudhury, the petitioner in the NGT against expansion of NH 37 along Kaziranga in 2013, said. 
 
 
