PUDUCHERRY: The opposition   on Thursday sought a   probe into the alleged malpractices in MBBS admissions in four deemed universities and three private medical colleges in the Union territory of Puducherry.

 Speaking to reporters, AIADMK legislature party leader A   said the probe must unearth information on the quantum of fees collected by private institutions from 770 odd MBBS students, who were given admission without adhering to the rules and norms set by the Supreme Court (SC), Medical Council of India (MCI), University Grants’ Commission ( ) and other competent authorities.
 
 “We learnt that the private institutions had collected exorbitant fees and donations to a tune of Rs 365 crore from 770 odd students, including 75 from Puducherry. MCI must initiate stringent action against the private institutions for flouting the norms. We demand a thorough probe by CBI. The probe must unearth the quantum of money collected by the institutions as fees from students,” Anbalagan said.
 
 He urged lt governor Kiran Bedi and chief minister V Narayanasamy to shed their differences and find ways to resolve the issue in an amicable manner as it concerned the future of 770 odd MBBS students.
 
 He wondered why the chief minister, who declared that the government will withdraw no-objection and essentiality certificates of the private institutions, if they were found to have made illegal admissions, did not initiate any action against erring institutions. He urged the chief minister to convene the cabinet and evolve strategies to resolve the issue. He termed chief minister’s declaration that the government has no role in the admission of students under management quota ‘irresponsible’.
 
 The managements of private institutions decided to approach Madras high court seeking to stay the discharge orders issued by MCI. The MCI issued a notice dated September 7 to Puducherry government and the private institutions directing to discharge (remove from the rolls of the institution) the 770 odd MBBS students (for the academic year 2016-17) on charges of failing to adhere to the prescribed rules and norms in the admission process.
 
 MCI joint secretary Rajendra Wahale said the institutions admitted students who were not allotted seats by the centralized admission committee (Centac). The institutions had also admitted students illegally after the last date of admission (September 30 every year) fixed by the Supreme Court and the MCI. Wahale asked the errant institutions to submit a compliance report within two weeks from the date of dispatch of the order.
 
