LUCKNOW: The number of   patients in UP could be higher than the national average because fewer women breast feed their babies in the state, said doctors at the Indian Cooperative   Network annual conference held in the city on Sunday.

 The recently released   fact sheet for UP has shown a drop in the total number of children exclusively breastfed. As per data, in 2004-05 (NFHS 3), 51.3% kids under six months of age in the state were breastfed. But in 2015-16 (NFHS 4), the number dropped to 41.6%. On an urban-rural scale, 64% babies in urban and 59% babies in rural areas under six months of age were not breastfed. 
 
 The dip in UP contradicts the national trend of improvement in breastfeeding practice. In 2005-06, national average for exclusive breastfeeding for India stood at 46.4, which increased to 54.9% in 2015-16.
 
 The trend caught the attention of oncologists who gathered in the city for Indian Cooperative Oncology Network annual conference. “Breast cancer is one of the important modifiable factors in breast cancer prevention. While efforts should be made to promote   by women for six months to one years, a dip in it is a cause of concern,” said Prof Sudeep Gupta, consultant in breast and gynaecological cancers, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai.
 
 Breast cancer risk factors are modifiable and non-modifiable. While age and family history cannot be altered (non-modifiable), obesity, lack of physical activity, breast-feeding and having first baby before 30 years can be modified. Dr Gupta stated that one cannot quantify the reduction in risk in the Indian scenario, the fact that women who breastfeed children are at a lower risk of the disease.
 
 However, an assessment of 47 different studies on connection between breast-feeding and breast cancer published in the British Medical Journal showed that the risk is reduced by 7% for each baby a woman has. The risk reduces further by 4.3% if she breastfeeds the baby for 12 months.
 
 He revealed that breast cancer was increasing at a rate of 1.5% per annum in India though the prevalence in the country was still one third of the rate in western world. “The prevalence was higher in urban areas than rural India. In urban centres like metro and big cities like Lucknow, 30 women out of 100,000 develop breast cancer, 10 rural women in 100,000 will have the disease,” he said, adding that prevalence in developed world was 80-90 per 100,000.
 
 Dr Gupta stated that the move to give 180 days of maternity to each mother would aid in promoting breastfeeding practices. He said that private sector should also come forward to do the same.
 
 
