NEW DELHI: Telecom major   was set to launch Delhi’s first Wi-Fi bus shelter on Wednesday. However, on Tuesday evening the company sent out a statement saying the launch has been “indefinitely postponed” without citing any reason for the delay. The Vodafone Wi-Fi bus shelter once operational would provide free internet to users for 20 minutes.

 A senior Vodafone official requesting anonymity told timesofindia.com that the company was ready for the launch but ran into permission issues at the last moment over a face-off between the BJP-led Municipal Corporation Delhi (MCD) and the Delhi government where the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party ( ) is in power. Both parties reportedly wanted to take credit for the launch which led to a fracas and the Wi-Fi setup at the Feroz Shah Kotla bus stop in Delhi being destroyed, the source said.
 
 While an MCD spokesperson denied knowledge of the incident, calls to Arvind Kejriwal’s office went unanswered.
 
 Vodafone India spokesperson issued a statement on Wednesday evening that read, "Vodafone was to inaugurate a Wi-Fi shelter in Delhi towards our commitment to digital Delhi. The scheduled launch of the shelter is delayed due to technical reasons." However, the company did not elaborate what those "technical reasons" were.
  
 Providing free Wi-Fi across Delhi was one of the key poll promises of the Aam Aadmi Party in the 2015 Delhi assembly elections, where the party won a thumping 67 of the total 70 constituencies. The Delhi government recently set March, 2018 as the target for the launch of first phase of its free Wi-Fi project. For this 1,000 hotspots will be created across Delhi to provide free Wi-Fi facility in the first phase on a pilot basis. According to a PTI report an investment of Rs 25 crore has been earmarked for the first phase of the project.
 
 Earlier this year in January, the Delhi   unit had staged a massive protest near the state Assembly and accused the AAP government of “failing to fulfil” its 70 election promises including providing free Wi-Fi.
 
 The Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the centre on its part has been pushing for a digital and   economy that needs a massive thrust in terms of affordable internet connectivity not just at urban centres but in the hinterlands as well.
 
 As part of India’s efforts to increase broadband access, telecom regulator TRAI (Telecom Regulator of India) had released a consultation paper last July inviting suggestions from all stakeholders for its policy on public Wi-Fi networks.
 
 Search giant   in association with the Indian Railways and state-owned already provides free Wi-Fi at over 100 railway stations across the country, potentially allowing the 10 million people who visit or transit through them high speed access to the internet.
 
 Various state governments across the country have announced public Wi-Fi initiatives. In January, 500 state-sponsored Wi-Fi hotspots went live across the city of Mumbai. It is set to go up to 1,200 by this month. Other state governments such as Tamil Nadu too have announced plans to roll out public Wi-Fi hotspots.
  
  last year announced it will set up one million Wi-Fi hotspots across India by the middle of this year.
  
 India had 162.04 million wireless and wireline broadband connections at the end of June 2016 with a speed of more than 512kbps
 
 
