PUNE: If the day-time heat in   this year sucked the energy out of you, the   temperatures for the month were probably worse.

 Data released by the India Meteorological Department ( ) reveals that nights in April warmed faster than the days, making the average night-time   for the month the third highest in the country’s history, recorded since 1901. The average night temperature rose by a significant 1.02 degree C in April. 
 
 The data revealed that the rise of around 1.04 degrees C in the mean temperature in April this year made it the fourth   April ever since 1901. The hottest April ever was in 2010, followed by 2016 and 1973.
 
 However, it is really the night temperature rise that has got scientists thinking. 
 
 A K Srivastava, senior scientist and head of climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, Pune, told TOI that past data has shown that nights have been warming more rapidly than days. “Though more research needs to be done on this, another probable reason could be the intense heat waves in April this year, which could have also affected the night temperature. This April in particular was marked by recurrent heat waves with anticyclones aloft,” he said.
 
 Srivastava said that days got unusually hot, trapping heat near the surface level. Usually, this heat escapes back into the atmosphere at night. “However, over the years, scientists are getting the impression that pollutants and greenhouse gases seem to be hindering this escape during the night, which results in the nights warming up,” he said.
 
 An Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) study in 2016 had said that out of the 12 major cities analyzed, nine showed an increase in minimum temperature too during the last four decades, including Pune. “The minimum temperature increased faster than the maximum in major and medium cities, while maximum temperature increased faster than the minimum in small cities and hill stations. Urbanization in cities seems to have affected the minimum temperature,” said D R Kothawale of the IITM, who headed the research.
 
