HYDERABAD: Not filling up an online   (GIS) form has proved to be expensive for hundreds of teaching education institutes in the state as the errant institutes may not be allowed to go ahead with Diploma in Education and Bachelor of Education counseling for the academic year 2017-18.

 Colleges that assumed that the rule would be implemented from next academic year, were informed that the state would not include them in the list for the first phase of counseling if the name of their college was not listed on the   ( ) website.
 
 “All these new rules, which were announced by the NCTE, were supposed to be implemented from the academic year 2018-19. However, for some strange reason, the convener of the   in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (TSDEECET 2017) refused to list our college in the first phase of counseling, which is supposed to begin on July 17,“ said J Bhaskar Reddy, who owns a BEd and DEd college.
 
 Reddy rued that he would now be forced to spend about Rs 1.75 lakh to complete the process to make sure that his college is listed at least in the later phase of counseling.
 
 “Now, in order to submit the online form and affidavit, NCTE is asking us to pay Rs1.5 lakh along with a GST of Rs23,000 to   (QCI) to get our colleges inspected. In spite of having affil iation and all the necessary permissions, we are being made to run from pillar to post,“ Reddy lamented.
 
 Telangana has 220 colleges offering DEd courses and about 187 colleges offering BEd courses, of which 34 DEd colleges and 45 BEd colleges failed to submit the GIS form.
 
 Managements of colleges, meanwhile, raised concerns over the future of colleges that have not been included in the first phase of counseling. “Students can exercise their web option from Sunday. We have to wait and see what will happen with the DEd course. When it comes to BEd, as the entrance exam is scheduled for today , colleges still have time to get the names of their colleges listed,“ said K Ramadass of the Telangana BEd and DEd Colleges Association. Association.
 
 TSDEECET officials made it clear that it's up to colleges to get their name listed and they have no role to play in the process as it is an NCTE decision.“If a college's name is not listed in NCTE website, it is their responsibility to get it listed. We cannot say whether colleges whose names are not on the website will be listed or not,“ said B Seshu Kumari, convener, (TSDEECET 2017).
 
