AHMEDABAD: Establishing the identity of a person remains one of the major concerns for  .

  The Forensic Science Laboratories (FSLs) get a number of queries about the parentage of children. While DNA profile has remained one of the best and trusted methods, can there be other biometrics for primary screening which are non-invasive and comparatively inexpensive?
 
  That was the primary question facing Dr Anshika Dube, a student of forensic odontology course at the   (IFS),   (GFSU). Dube undertook an exploratory study to establish the influence of gender and genetic factors through rugoscopy (the study of rugae — patterns on hard tissue of the mouth’s palate);   (the study of lip patterns); and dactyloscopy (the study of fingerprints). Thirty families of Saurashtra region and Ahmedabad city, which had at least one child, were covered in the study.
 
 Dr  , assistant professor, IFS, and Dube’s guide for the study, said that the findings have been encouraging as they showed strong correlation between parents and children. “The sample size is comparatively small and thus it is not necessary that the same percentage of correlation can be found when the sample size is expanded,” he said. “However, the methods can be used as the primary screening process for personal identification, the identification of suspects, and for establishing the family lineage of a missing person.” A number of studies have taken place around the world but this is the first instance of a Gujarati population being studied for the purpose.
 
 According to the analysis, rugoscopy results exhibited 71.4% correlation between mother and daughter and 66.7% between father and son. Chieloscopy showed two major types of lip prints revealing nearly 100% correlation between mother and daughter and father and son. For fingerprints, there was 50% correlation between mother and daughter whereas for father and son it was 33.3%. The research also mentions rugae as a reliable and unique biometric indicator as it is easy to obtain and is less prone to being damaged by external factors. 
 
 
