Hhe irony was inescapable. On what was the 69th anniversary of   (the Indian army campaign to annex the Nizam-ruled Hyderabad State into Indian Union which culminated on September 17, 1948), another ‘Operation Polo’ 
was underway on the streets of Secunderabad — Operation Save Bison Polo! Over 350 people took part in the protest walk which began at Parade Grounds at about 7:15 am on Sunday. Over the next hour, slogans filled the air as the procession headed to the   nearby, screaming at the top of their voices in unison to get a simple message across to Telangana chief minister   and Prime Minister  : ‘Bison Polo Ground hamara, jaan se pyara, jaan se pyara’. ‘Zor se bolo zor se bolo, Bison Polo Ground hamara, Bison Polo ground hamara’. ‘Bachana hai, bachana hai, Bison Polo bachana hai. Bachayenge hum bachayenge, Bison Polo bachayenge!’
 
 The decision to hit the streets with “Signature Campaign to Save Bison Polo” on the very day the VIIth Nizam   announced ceasefire almost seven decades ago, conceding to merge Hyderabad into India, was intended to be a slap on the face of political parties who’ve been clamouring to declare the day as Telangana Liberation Day. “There are so many more important issues that need to be addressed in Telangana. Yet many of our leaders only seem to be interested in indulging in petty political games of one-upmanship. Also, we want to remind the Telangana government that the construction of a new Secretariat is going to do no good forthe state or its people. It will only end up choking the city even more. We will not let it happen,” says Manne Krishank, a PhD Scholar from Osmania University who filed the online petition ‘Save Bison Polo-Gymkhana! Don’t Build Secretariat!!!’ which has found 3,124 signatories so far.
 
 When we have a fully functional Secretariat complex that is lying empty why is KCR so hell bent on building a new structure? That is the question citizens are asking. “If you need to build secretariat, demolish the old one and build a new one. Or construct one on the outskirts of the city. There is plenty of open space near his (KCR) sprawling farm house (in Gajwel). Why usurp the only lung space left in Secunderabad?” fumes Sunil Srivastav, an engineer who has been residing in Marredpally for the past 45 years. 
 
 KCR’s declared belief that the existing Secretariat complex is besieged with ‘vastu doshas’ which has led to the lack of prosperity is what’s riled up many like Clock Tower resident Vidyasagar Mohan Rao. “KCR being CM is bad for my vastu and for that of the rest of Telangana. Look at the state of the roads in the city which are filled with potholes. Every year a new layer of concrete is added to the existing roads, leaving no space for water to seep through. Soon roads will rise above our homes. There is no space to walk in all of Secunderabad as the CM wants to build more roads,” he says. 
 
 Shireen Sethna, a lawyer who resides in Gunrock concurs: “Most of Secunderabad has been turned into a concrete jungle anyway. Besides being an important part of city’s history, this is only lung space left, which acts as a reservoir of ground water and helps cool temperatures in the searing summers.”
 
 The 12-year-old twin brother duo of Venkat and Vishwesh had the most endearing request to the CM: “Please don’t take away Bison Polo. So many kids like us come here to play sports like tennis, cricket, skating etc., from all over the city. We will have nowhere to go!”
 
