Nagpur: The State Chief Minister Fadnavis awarded Rs 3,15,000 to 700 students belonging to minority communities at the valedictory function of ‘Seekho aur Kamao’, a skill development programme at Anjuman College of Engineering on Saturday. The 5-month long programme was conducted by Mehmuda Shikshan Mahila Gramin Vikas Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha (MSMGVBS) under the banner of Ministry of Minority Affairs, Government of India.

 ‘Seekho and Kamao’ is an initiative by the central government to train youngsters in various modern and traditional skills depending upon their qualification, present economic trends and market potential to help them secure suitable job opportunities as well as self-employment.
 
 Some of the courses were technical and non-technical trades like beauty therapy, hand embroidery, basic automotive servicing, assistant diet counsellor, repair and maintenance of electrical appliances, fashion sales representatives and others.
 
 “Stability of a civilized society is directly proportional to its youth, hence, equipping them with adequate knowledge is one of the topmost priority of the government. The state skill development scheme has spent around Rs 280cr and more than 1,10,000 students have been the beneficiary of the scheme in the past 3 years,” said chief guest Fadnavis. MP Ajay Sancheti and Mayor Nanda Jichkar were also invited as guest of honour.
 
 A MOU was signed between Indian Muslim Chamber of Commerce and Industry and MSMGVBS in presence of Fadnavis to place the students in companies and industries.
 
 Sancheti said that this scheme would generate means of better livelihood for marginalized minorities and bring them in the mainstream society. It would also enable minorities to avail opportunities in the growing market and develop potential human resource for the country.
 
 Abdul Ahad, director of the programme, said, “The Sanstha has trained the students for 500 hours in a span of five months and now every candidate would get a   of Rs 4500 and a certificate from National Council for   Training. The Sanstha would also work as a facilitator in giving jobs to all these students in accordance with the vision of our Prime Minister motto ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’.” The organizers gave life time achivement awards to some persons to appreciate the work done by them.
 
 
