NEW DELHI: On April 29, 2014, 10 members of the Neeraj Bawana-Naveen Bali gang sneaked into the   at  , armed to the teeth. Their target was Pradeep Bhola, a gangster belonging to the group led by Neetu Dabodia, who himself had been gunned down by Delhi Police’s Special Cell in Vasant Kunj in 2013. After Dabodia’s death, Paras alias Goldy and Rajesh Durmut had led the gang, with Bhola ranking third in the command structure.

 Three years later on Saturday, the two gangs’ contest to establish supremacy in the capital led to the shooting down of Durmut on the   court premises. Since the Bawana and Dabodia gangs were involved, it is surprising that police had no intelligence on this. Police said that the handler of Satish, one of Saturday’s shooters, worked for Neeraj Bawana. The deceased Durmut was involved in murders and dacoities and had been incarcerated three times before his arrest in December. At the time, Durmut had been working to arrange the funds required to revive the Dabodia gang.
 
 The 2014 plan to eliminate Bhola had been foiled by the cops, who, helped by intelligence intercepts that were confirmed by an informer, had been well-prepared to take the attackers head on. On D-Day, police laid traps around the court house and kept a tight scrutiny on the reads leading to the court.
 
 The shooter given the main task of targeting Bhola was 23-year-old Vikas Dabas, a newbie who came dressed in a lawyer’s attire, complete with case files, in which he hid a pistol. Nine of his associates had also reached the court premises in three cars.
 
 However, the Special Cell men were no less smart. They too were stationed in different areas of the court dressed in black, legal robes. When Dabas was spotted, he was overpowered after a chase on the first floor of the building. The other cops pinned down the others in a systematic manner, averting a bloodbath.
 
 However, no lessons were learnt from this operation, and in December 2015, gangsters were able to enter the Karkardooma courtroom and open fire there. Juveniles hired by a north-east Delhi gangster were able to achieve their objective of eliminating their target right in front of the judge. The bloodbath at the   on Saturday is only an addition to this list of audacious public attacks involving Delhi’s gangs. 
 
