Nagpur: Top junior colleges in the city witnessed a huge rush as students tried to complete admission formalities after being allotted a seat under the online Common Admission Process (CAP). The deadline to complete admissions ends on Thursday evening, and students will forfeit their seat if they fail secure it.

 KJ Cherian, principal of Sindhu College, said “We have to complete 800 admissions across all streams. On an average, 100 admissions can be completed in a day, as it takes almost 25 minutes per student. Today, almost 300 students queued up and we put in additional staff in four different rooms to meet the demand.”
 
 Academicians at some other colleges too feel that the Thursday deadline needs to be revised to enable smoother completion of admissions. Kabir Rawlekar, vice-principal of Ambedkar College, said, “We are witnessing a huge rush of students plus parents. I have not even got a chance to get up from the chair since morning.”
 
 The education department has, however, deferred the decision till Thursday as it wants to go through updated admission figures. Shivling Patve, assistant director of education (Nagpur division), said, “We will speak with our head office on whether extending the deadline is possible or not. I personally feel that all the admission formalities will get completed by Thursday evening. However, we will take stock of the situation tomorrow.”
 
 Praveen Joshi, another senior academician, said lack of awareness among students and parents is further complicating things. He said, “If a student opts for aided seat in general science, then he/she cannot choose an unaided bifocal course along with it. Since there are more unaided seats available in colleges, chances of getting admissions increased. But while filling forms, parents opt for aided section as the fee is drastically less. Had the parents known about it, they would have definitely opted for unaided seats.”
 
 This is the first year of online CAP for Nagpur with the city witnessing record highs in general science cut-off. Ambedkar College has closed admissions for the stream at 97% while Shivaji Science closed at 94.2%. The bifocal course record cut-off for 2014 at 98% seems all set to be shattered in a few days when final statistics are released by colleges.
 
 
