If you work in Noida or  , you've probably experienced more than one earthquake while sitting at your desk in your office. But do residents and workers in Noida, which is quite prone to earthquakes, know what to do when disaster strikes? Officials and volunteers from the poorly-staffed Disaster Management Cell (DMC), Noida, tell us how earthquake-prone Noida is, and how various kinds of people react during mock drills and disaster preparedness training. They say that children are the most receptive and involved, more so than the adults working in Noida's vulnerable high-rises. In the corporate context, American MNCs take quake and disaster readiness much more seriously than Indian companies, they say.

  
 The DMC recently conducted a mega mock drill in 108 schools of the Gautam Budh Nagar district, which was monitored from its Sector 29 office by staffers, volunteers and a team from the   (NDRF). After the mega exercise, we spoke to DMC officials, including planning specialist Dr Kumar Raka, the head of the cell. "Noida is an area comprising of a river belt, soft soil and several high-rise buildings. Noida and Greater Noida are situated in the highly vulnerable Seismic Zone IV, where earthquakes of high magnitude might strike anytime," he explained.
 
 
  
  The mega mock drill in 108 schools, which NT reported last month, taught thousands of students what to do in an earthquake
 
 Explaining how disaster-prone Noida is, Dr Raka added, "Also, the twin cities are vulnerable to floods, severe storms and man-made disasters. Most importantly, the twin cities are the industrial hub of the NCR and chances of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) emergencies cannot be ruled out either. In case disaster strikes, the NDRF teams would take a long time to reach the incident site from their present location in Ghaziabad or Dwarka. The 'golden hour' of response would always be lost due to traffic congestion and other reasons. Therefore, it is of prime importance to permanently position one CBRN NDRF company in Noida/Greater Noida for a quick and specialized response in a crisis. The Noida Authority has in principle approved the allocation of land to the NDRF in Sector 153 – that needs to be expedited."
 
  
  Noida students from both private and government schools participated in the mock quake drill last month
 
  
  
 
  
 In the 108 schools where the mock drill was conducted, it was observed that the children were quite involved and responsive to what the volunteers told them. "Children are quite proactive; they ask many questions, some that haven't occurred even to us – 'agar table nahin hua toh?', 'what if we're choked for air?', 'what if the power goes off and nothing is visible, then how do we react?' It makes us happy that the younger generation is getting the right information about what to do in a calamity. Adults are also keen on these programs, but kids show greater interest," says JS Chaudhary, a senior volunteer at the DMC. 
 
  
  The team that monitored the mock drills in Noida schools: NDRF personnel (in orange); volunteers including Rishi Bhatia (seventh from left, standing);  , assistant commandant, NDRF (second from left, seated); JS Chaudhary, Retd IG, ITBP, and senior volunteer, DMC; Dr Kumar Raka, planning specialist and DMC head (second from right, seated) (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 Rishi Bhatia, who works in the administration department of an American MNC and is also part of its incident management team, is one of the volunteers at the DMC. He tells us, "There is a disaster recovery department in the offices of most big companies, whether Indian or American, while smaller Indian companies do not have such departments or any preparedness measures for disasters or calamities. The American MNCs always have quarterly, six-monthly and weekly fire evacuation drills based on all kinds of scenarios. Medium-sized companies usually have no process of fire evacuation or any such disaster preparedness. These things are top management-driven and in American MNCs, these are guidelines from corporate heads sitting all the way across the globe – we have to follow them as a mandate. But Indian companies usually do not have such procedures. I can say that there is a cultural difference between foreign and Indian companies in terms of their attitude towards disaster preparedness."
 
 
  
  
 
  He adds, "When we conduct an evacuation drill, the Indian workers participating don’t take it as seriously as the British or American do. That's where the cultural difference becomes obvious. But now, people are becoming more aware and these exercises help. Workers do participate now, but there is still a long way to go."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 DMC officials also told us that in their experience, private schools are easier to approach and more open to the idea of conducting mock drills; they find it more difficult approaching the principals of government schools and getting them to understand the importance of what they’re trying to do. It was observed that there was a more professional approach to such drills and exercises in private schools, and a more laid-back approach in government schools, officials told us.
 
  
  
 
 
