PATNA: The extended and severe crisp weather is showing no signs of retreat as weathermen are expecting sub-10 chill in the region, including Patna, over the next few days.

 Chilly winds coming from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, which are witnessing snowfall, are expected to plunge the minimum temperature in the state capital up to 7 degrees Celsius by January 13.
 
 Meteorologists have claimed that the state is facing an extended and severe cold weather this time. The met experts said fog cover in the morning hours would continue till January 15.
 
 India   (IMD) stated in its all India weather bulletin on Saturday that dense to very dense fog would prevail at many places in Bihar over the next three days.
 
 Thick fog cover has also affected train services as seven long distance passenger trains were cancelled and another seven were rescheduled from Patna Junction on Saturday due to their abnormal late running. The trains were rescheduled by one to five hours as the visibility dropped to below 50 metres in the early morning hours.
 
 The rescheduled trains included   (12309) Express, which was rescheduled from 7pm to 11pm. Besides,   Kranti Express (12393) was cancelled. Also, the Gaya-New Delhi Mahabodhi Express was rescheduled from 2.20pm to 7pm. 
 
 Weathermen at   claimed that thick fog cover would be observed in the morning hours over the next few days as well but clear skies would be observed during the daytime. The fog cover and drop in temperature has been attributed to a western disturbance positioned over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfalls in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 “The western disturbance is leading to showers in Jammu and Kashmir and snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, including Shimla. Cold winds blowing from those places in north India have led to gradual plunge in mercury column. The drop in minimum temperature is expected to be comparatively more than the maximum temperature,” said a senior weatherman at the local Met centre.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet too has claimed that moderate to dense fog would be observed in many parts of Bihar along with plunge in minimum and maximum temperature from January 9 onwards.
 
 Skymet has added that the maximum temperature at most places in Bihar is expected to be in the range of 18-24°degrees C, while the minimum temperature will be between 7°C and 10°C.
 
 The winter season normally set in over Bihar around mid- December and it is at its peak between December 20 and January 15. However, this time, the minimum temperature started getting recorded below 13 degree mark, one of the meteorological criteria for onset of winter season, from third week of November. 
 
