LUCKNOW: Lucknow University’s decision to   the   by six times   on the campus on Thursday. Student leaders associated with different organizations staged protests at different spots within the campus, demanding a rollback. They closed the main gate, sat in groups and obstructed work at the administrative block for over six hours, forcing the university to postpone counselling for   scheduled from Friday. 

 Student leaders, along with their supporters, began their demonstration at Shaheed Chowk outside administrative office in the morning. Former student union presidents Bajrangi Singh Bajju and Abhishek Singh Ashu also joined the protest. When the university proctor board and officials didn’t turn up even after three hours, the protesters forced the cashier office closed and locked up all the gates, paralysing the day’s work. 
 
 Students not even part of the agitation voiced similar sentiments and said the hike was a blow to the economically weaker sections. Some said they didn’t mind the inconvenience caused by the locked gates. “I’d rather climb over the gate to enter the campus than accept the university’s decision of fee hike,” said MA student Mukta.
 
 Another student, Vivek Singh Monu, said the university was dividing students on the basis of marks. “How can they charge different fee for regular and self-finance mode? The hostel doesn’t have anything to do with academics. ”
 
 Meanwhile, protesters belonging to different students’ wings sat in groups in front of the administrative block, examination building and the main gate respectively, barring the entry of employees, professors and students in the campus. Proctor Vinod Singh, who turned up after five hours, could not convince students to call off the protest.
 
 “When it comes to providing facilities, the university always fails us. In hostels, students are not allowed even small coolers, room heaters and other electrical appliances claiming it doesn’t have the required power infrastructure. Then what is the hike for?” said MA student Neha Singh.
 
 The protest continued till the evening when pro vice-chancellor UN Dwivedi promised them a rethink on the decision. Later, university authorities cancelled the counselling for allotment of rooms scheduled for Friday and Saturday. 
 
 
