Waiting at the threshold to be elevated as judge of the Supreme Court, the   of  ,  , bestrode the chartered court like a colossus for about 30 months. Presiding over a record disposal of cases, taming an unruly section of the Bar, appointing an unprecedented number of 25 new judges, removing bad apples from subordinate judiciary and passing a string of daring judicial orders — chief justice Kaul must be a contented jurist today. 

 Justice Kaul who assumed charge as chief justice of Madras high court in 2014 will himself be astonished at the pace with which events unfolded during his tenure and the manner in which he handled them.
 
 While the initial one year period was relatively event-free, three episodes — one: lawyers disrupting his court proceedings in February 2015 , shouting ‘go back to Kashmir’; two: lawyers barging into his official chambers; and three: a group of lawyers breaching security and laying midnight siege to his official residence and vandalising it — triggered a spate of action on lawyers. Events such as a small group occupying justice Kaul’s court for a whole day, and busloads of lawyers from Madurai descending on court campus and creating havoc, did not help either.
 
 These disturbances, coupled with prolonged court boycott in subordinate courts against selecting new judges and empowering lower courts to punish errant lawyers, kept justice Kaul busy for several weeks. He struck back by bringing the high court under the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) security blanket, thereby insulating the entire campus from external disturbances.
 
 Justice Kaul had an opportunity to deliver an updated version of his 2008 magnum opus in the M F Hussain case, when the controversy surrounding novel ‘Madhorubagan’ by Perumal Murugan came before him. Penning another epic running to 158 pages in defence of freedom of speech, he said: "Let the author be resurrected to do what he is best at. Write…If you do not like a book, throw it away. There is no compulsion to read a book. Literary tastes may vary — what is right and acceptable to one may not be so to others. Yet, the right to write is unhindered."
 
 The state would remember his September 9, 2016 judgment imposing a blanket ban on sale and registration of unauthorised layouts and mindless conversion of agricultural land into housing plots. Till this day, despite developers fielding an army of advocates to get the ruling diluted, justice Kaul has not budged an inch. Also, alarmed at the slapdash renovation works being carried out in ancient heritage temples by the government, and irretrievable damaged being caused to idols and murals, justice Kaul involved the UNESCO and its experts in the conservation works.
 
 His bench quashed the appointment of 11 members to Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) sending a strong signal to the government, and pointing out that a draughtsman, a ‘weeded out’ district judge, a private college teacher and an electricity board engineer were among persons appointed to the constitutional post.
 
 Justice Kaul’s bench ended the illegal ‘Sharia court’ system functioning in many mosque premises in Tamil Nadu, and said: "If a place of worship — whether it be temple, mosque or church — is used for purposes other than prayers, and more specifically to create extra-constitutional forums, certainly the authorities are duty-bound to take action against them." Within days after the order, his bench ruled that documents issued by the chief kazi approving or certifying triple talaq was merely an opinion, having no legal validity.
 
 Justice Kaul will now hold a record of having sworn in the maximum number of judges in the court. A total of 25 judges have already joined the bench, and another 21 names sent in three batches are awaiting the Supreme Court’s nod.
 
 It was also during justice Kaul’s regime when, for the first time ever, the overall seniority list of high court service staff was published, besides the annual report of the court. Besides ensuring allotment of Tamil Nadu Housing Board tenements for court staff, he made state government sanction 1,344 additional judicial staff post.
 
 There are, of course, certain type of cases the chief justice would not entertain at all. They include repeated PILs seeking medical treatment details of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and plea to order probe into the ‘mystery’ behind her death. He also could not be persuaded to interfere with the Centre’s demonetisation policy, and the state government’s liquor policy. "It is a policy decision by the government to sell liquor. The court cannot interfere in it," he had said.
 
 
