AHMEDABAD: The special investigation team (SIT) prosecuting the 2002 riots cases, on Wednesday opposed the demand of the accused in the  , to examine two Hindu public prosecutors about whether there was anger among Hindus one day after the burning of the S-6 coach of   near Godhra station.

 Defence lawyer Chetan Shah had last week filed an application requesting the court to permit him to question two Hindu prosecutors – Viha Patel and Gaurang Vyas. This came after the dispute between the defence and the prosecuting agency, the SIT, intensified on the issue of cross-examination of defence witnesses, when the prosecution specifically asked if there was anger among Hindus in the state after the Godhra carnage.
 
 The defence sought to question the two assistant prosecutors who are Hindu but did not insist on questioning special prosecutor Suresh Shah because he is Jain. In its reply, the prosecution asserted that feelings of anger and anguish prevailed among Hindus after the Godhra carnage and various witnesses have testified about it. As witnesses had deposed in this regard in the past, the prosecution’s question to defence witnesses was reasonable and justifiable.
 
 The prosecution demanded that the application of the defence to examine prosecutors be rejected and asked the court to recover the costs for such an application. It was submitted that prosecutors can’t be examined as defence witnesses because the opposing side’s advocates cannot be examined. To substantiate its argument, the prosecution cited a   judgment in the Kokkanda B Poondacha vs K D Ganapathy case, in which the apex court ruled that opposing side’s advocate cannot be examined during trial because the discussion between advocates and clients is privileged and they cannot be questioned on that basis.
 
 Special judge P B Desai reserved his order on this subject till Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, five witnesses were examined by the defence. Vallabh Patel’s wife Sushilaben and sister-in-law Kalaben Patel told the court that the accused was with them at   in Navrangpura area on February 28, 2002. They, however, expressed ignorance when they were cross-questioned on whether Vallabh Patel was arrested in this case.
 
 Another witness, Paresh Ambani, appeared in defence of the accused Dinesh Patel, to say that he was with him at a place of work at the time of the rioting in Naroda. He did not have documentary evidence to substantiate his claim.
 
 Accused Sunil Nair’s uncle, Rajgopal Nair, told the court that Sunil was in Kerala since February 23, 2002 and remained there for next two weeks. Another witness Pravinsinh Vaghela, a kinsman of Rajubhai Vaghela who was killed in the Godhra carnage, said that he saw   leader Jaideep Patel and Bajrang Dal leader Babu Bajrangi at   on the morning of February 28, 2002.
 
 
