GANDHINAGAR:  , the leader of the opposition in the state assembly and former chief minister — whose supporters had been running the ‘Bapu for CM’ campaign — said on Monday that he was not in the race to become the CM. Vaghela was speaking to a gathering of around 1,500 candidates vying to run for 182 assembly seats in Gujarat. However, he said that as was the case with Yogi Adityanath in UP, the selection of the chief ministerial candidate would depend on the support of MLAs. 

  Paradoxically, Vaghela’s announcement may strengthen his claim to the CM’s candidature, while indirectly undermining other Congress figures who aspire to be selected as the party’s CM nominee. Indeed, Vaghela’s statement did not go down well with other Congress factions. Many in the rival groups said that the declaration was a “pressure tactic to get more tickets for his supporters.” Incidentally, the   launched the “Congress ave che” campaign on Monday. 
 
 As for Vaghela’s speech, he said: “I am only in the race to get results.” In fact, he went on to say: “There is no one in the CM race — not me, nor Bharatsinhbhai, Arjunbhai, Sidharathbhai nor Shaktisinhbhai. I am voluntarily withdrawing my claim”. He said if the party got the majority, everyone would benefit. “We will have to be ready for sacrifices. We cannot limit ourselves to kshatriyas or minorities etc,” he said. “To get majority if we need to allot tickets to candidates who can win, rather than focusing on communities, I will ask the party to do so.”
 
 Vaghela said elections have to be won first and then other aspects can be decided. “The UP   did not want to make Yogi Adityanath the CM,” he said. “But 175 MLAs supported him and   had to accept his claim.” He asked Congress workers to fight against the BJP’s polarization strategies. He said he had met   leader Sharad Pawar to understand his thoughts on a possible tie-up in Gujarat. He denied veering towards the NCP or towards any other party. 
 
 Jitu Vaghani, the state BJP president, called the Congress meeting “ridiculous”. Vaghani said: “Last year, their party in-charge Gurudas Kamat had said that the party had prepared the list of candidates.” Vaghani asked why the Congress was afraid to announce the names. “The Congress is known for giving assembly tickets for money,” he said. “It cannot even announce the names of municipality election candidates.” He said that the Congress only arrives during elections, which he said, explains the new campaign tag line. 
 
 Use social media, Cong workers told
 
 Bharatsinh Solanki, the state Congress president did not comment on Vaghela’s statement and kept his speech short. “I appeal to all members to campaign through social media,” he said. “From March 27, the party will start preparing the final panel list for all 182 assembly seats.” Solanki went on to say: “We did exceptionally well in taluka and district panchayat elections because we selected candidates from the grassroots level. We will do that for assembly polls too.” He said district panchayat leaders, state leaders, and other would meet candidates who have applied for tickets and prepare panel lists. “After that 20 state leaders will review nine seats each,” he said. 
 
