NEW DELHI: The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government will take important decisions in its first cabinet meeting which will be held on Wednesday at 5 pm in state capital in Lucknow.

 
  The issues, likely to be discussed in the meeting, are that of farmers' loans, fixation of the new power tariff, Law and Order and measures to put the state's fiscal situation on track.
 
 Allotment of portfolios to the ministers is also expected during Adityanath's first cabinet meet.
 
 On Tuesday, Adityanath was on a day-long visit to the national capital and called on senior leaders of the party, including Prime Minister  , party president Amit Shah, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and party patriarch LK Advani. 
 
 Adityanath's Delhi trip was billed as a courtesy visit to party seniors. However, sources said the new CM had a thorough discussion with Amit Shah as the two leaders finalised the list of portfolios to be formalised by Wednesday. Insiders say that Yogi was keen to retain the home department, which has been the precedence in the state and he will himself work on improving the law and order situation, an issue raked up most against the Akhilesh Yadav dispensation. Adityanath rushed back from the airport in the afternoon to the residence of Shah here for an 'unscheduled' meeting. The CM was on his way to the airport when his cavalcade made a U-turn. He remained at Shah's residence for nearly an hour.
 
 Party sources said it was pertinent for Adityanath to discuss the portfolio distribution with Shah, who played a key role in selection of candidates and also in forging alliance with the two regional parties -Apna Dal and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Shah had wandered across the state as a commoner to sense the pulse on the ground and had valuable tips for the new CM for evenly distributing the portfolios focusing on capabilities and regional balance.
 
 However, sources said national office-bearers, including Shrikant Sharma and Sidharth Nath Singh, are set to get important portfolios whereas others, including  ,  ,   and Suresh Khanna, will also get other key departments like power, industry and urban development.
 
 Adityanath, who on March 19 took charge as the Chief Minister, assured to fulfill all the promises made in the BJP manifesto for development of Uttar Pradesh.
 
 "I will take UP forward with his motto of sabka saath sabka vikas," he said after being announced as the Chief Minister. 
 
 After 15-years, BJP won a landslide mandate in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections with 312 seats. 
 
 
 
