JAIPUR: Former Congress minister Babu Lal Nagar organised a show of strength in his erstwhile assembly constituency Dudu on Saturday in an effort to get re-inducted into the party on being cleared of rape charges. Nagar, while addressing a gathering of thousands of his supporters in Dudu, said Congress was his mother and former chief minister   was his God.

 The former legislator was acquitted of the rape charges by a trial court in Jaipur on Monday. When he was a cabinet minister in the previous Gehlot-government, a married woman accused him of rape on the pretext of getting her a government job. The Congress suspended him from its primary membership following his arrest by the CBI in October 2013.
 
 Having spent more than three years in jail, Nagar was now exploring ways to be reaccepted by the Congress. Sources said he met with ex-CM Gehlot after being released this week. Former   MP Mahesh Joshi, another of Gehlot’s confidants, was the only Congress leader who attended Nagar’s rally on Saturday. Joshi declared before the Dudu gathering that he would support Nagar’s case for re-induction into Congress and would soon speak to AICC general secretary in-charge   and PCC chief Sachin Pilot.
 
 Nagar, at the same time, said, “I still consider myself a Congressman, as I was never expelled from the party. I heard about my suspension from the party but never got any such letter till date.” He added that he would meet Pilot and other Congress leaders on the subject soon.
 
 On being asked what if the Congress did not field him in the next assembly election, Nagar replied, “Mein ghar baith ke seva karunga. (I will serve from home).”
 
 Travelling through Dudu assembly constituency for the first time after being released from jail, Nagar got a hero’s welcome from his supporters collected at different places along the Jaipur-Ajmer national highway on Saturday. The gathering at Dudu was impressive. People honoured him with a turban said to be measuring 325-meters. Nagar would be holding another rally at nearby Phulera on February 6.
 
 The Jaipur district’s constituency is a reserved seat for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates and is currently represented by BJP’s  , who defeated Nagar’s younger brother Hajari Lal Nagar by a margin of over 33,000 votes in 2013.
 
 
