Your best friend is someone with whom you can share everything under the sky — common interests, secrets and also, your shortcomings. They are usually someone who accepts you as you are and is there for you in your time of need. 
Since this is exactly what we look for in a dream man/woman, is it possible to fall in love with him/her? It is in fact easier to fall in love with someone who has been your bestie all this while. The change in equation usually happens in late adolescence or early adulthood when decisions are taken on impulse. 
 However, the dream relationship has its weak spots too. Since proximity plays a role in this relationship, it could lead anywhere — a premature ending or a lasting bond and marriage. 
 Most people, who are or have been in a relationship with their BFF, have reportedly confessed to having had second thoughts about it. Do you find yourself among them? Are you plagued by questions that the new romantic equation may affect your friendship and cost you a friend? 
 Read on to know what relationship therapist,   and psychiatrist, Dr   have to say about falling in love with your bestie...
 
 
 
 
 
 As  , you are already familiar with each other’s traits, quirks and dreams, and are comfortable with each other. So when you decide to take your friendship to the next level — that of a committed relationship — you are able to cruise through it smoothly as a certain level of understanding already exists between the couple. 
 
 You have shared umpteen secrets with your best friend and never regretted it. Apart from that you can even trust them with all other personal matters or important decisions in your life. The abundance of trust in your relationship fosters peace and contentment in your relationship. You can continue to be yourself, including moody as there’s no fear of being judged by your partner. 
 
 
 Romancing a best friend enriches your life and experiences. It brings in the fun and romance of a couple in love, at the same time you enjoy the support, understanding and acceptance of a friend. The awareness of each other’s strengths, weaknesses and temperament helps you to channelise your actions tactfully during serious experiences, ill health or going through a financial crisis together. As life progresses, you are guaranteed that your heart is in good hands. And the bond can only grow deep in a relationship with a friend.
 
 
 
 There is hardly any mystery in a relationship with a best friend-turned-lover as you know everything about each other. Boredom might set in and you may get a feeling that you’ve spent too much time together. You may find that after the initial stages of lusting for him/her, there’s nothing to look forward to. And if the interest dies, the relationship eventually dies. 
 
 While as best friends you could discuss flings, as   you may reserve your comments to prevent jealousy from creeping into the relationship. You have to constantly be on guard about actions to prevent any kind of insecurity from creeping in the relationship. 
 
 
 With the best-friends-turned lovers tag, you are no longer as carefree as you were when you were only friends. Expectations might increase and failure to meet them can cause disharmony and lead to arguments in the relationship. The emotional scar of ending such a relationship is much more than ending a normal relationship since it’s hard to break up with your best friend. You not only end up losing a lover, but also a good friend.
 
