NEW DELHI: Amid tight security and stringent ruling on clothes and accessories, 11,38,890 aspirants appeared for   ( ) on Sunday. The offline exam, conducted by   in 10 different languages, was held at 1,921 centres in 103 cities for 95,000 undergraduate seats.

 The NEET exam is administered by the ministry of health & family welfare and CBSE is only the examination conducting agency. Earlier, CBSE conducted NEET for only 15% seats for the all-India quota and the rest was conducted by the respective states.
 
 Around 490 CBSE officials were deployed in 103 cities to supervise the exam along with 3,500 observers, besides the city coordinators of CBSE schools.
 
 To ward off malpractice, CBSE came out with several rules for this year's test, which included strict guidelines on the clothing for aspirants. Students were asked to avoid wearing nose pins, hair clips and other accessories. They were also told to wear light coloured clothes with half sleeves. Even covered shoes were prohibited.
 
 However, students at the Ryan International School centre at Vasant Kunj said that there wasn't much of an issue with the rulings. "Only those who were wearing scarf or jewellery were told to remove it," said Aditya Kumar, a 19-year-old student of Acharya Narendra Dev College,  .
 
 Students were also requested to carry their   card with them to avoid confusion regarding their identity. Many students, however, said that carrying Aadhaar card wasn't mandatory. Ishika Singh, a student of Andhra Education Society School said that she had forgotten her Aadhaar card and was worried about it. "The invigilators, however, told me not to worry as I would be allowed to sit for the test," she added.
 
 However, the intense security measure by the administration was of assistance for a few students. Fahad Ahmed, a resident of Bijnor and a person with disability said that the examination centre had all amenities to make him comfortable. "A wheelchair was provided to me and the authorities assisted me throughout," he added.
 
 Even though most students claimed that the exam was moderately difficult, SK Singh, director of Oasis Education Services raised concerns over the physics paper. Singh alleged that a question on current electricity had a problem. "None of the options provided were correct. Wrong options trouble students as they spend too much time on it," he added.
 
 NEET 2017 is of prime importance because the ministry of health and family welfare had, by an ordinance in June 2016, amended Medical Council of India Act and Dentists Act and made a provision for integrated NEET for admissions to 95,000 UG seats (65,000 MBBS & 25,000 BDS) in all government and private medical colleges and the deemed Universities across the country.
 
 The results will be declared on June 8.
 
