PUNE: The Wanowrie police are investigating a complaint filed by a 17-year-old college student alleging that she was sexually assaulted by the conductor of a   bus in Fatimanagar nearly a month ago. 

 While the girl, who hails from Loni Kalbhor, had lodged a zero FIR with the Pune rural police on Sunday, it was transferred to the Wanowrie police the same night for investigation. Police have since registered an offence against the conductor under the Indian Penal Code and Protection to Children from Sexual Offences Act. 
 
 Inspector M R Pandit (crime) of the Wanowrie police station said on Monday, “We are trying to ascertain the identity of the bus conductor based on the girl’s statement, which is to be recorded soon. So far, the girl has not been able to tell us the bus number and the date when the incident occurred.”
 
 “All we have got so far from the girl is the route number on which the bus was operating on the day of the incident 111. We are seeking PMPML’s help for more details regarding the civic buses which operated on this route around that time,” Pandit added. 
 
 PMPML authorities said the matter would be thoroughly investigated. 
 
 “We have not yet received any communication regarding the incident from the victim or the police. However, the incident is worrying and raises concerns. We will be coordinating with the police when they contact us and will find the conductor involved. Proper investigation will be initiated and the strictest possible action will take place. We will call for a list of drivers and conductors on the said route and try and identify the person involved,” a senior official with the transport body told TOI. 
 
 Police said the girl, a second-year junior college student, lives with her parents and younger brother. In her complaint, she said she travels by the PMPML bus service from her residence to college every day between 7.30am and 2pm.
 
 She said that sometime in January, she boarded the bus from a stop near her college and took a seat near the driver. While the bus was passing Fatimanagar, the conductor sexually assaulted her two to three times, she said in her complaint.
 
 The girl did not report the incident to her parents as she was disturbed. She also did not note down details of the bus, police said.
 
 A fortnight later, when she learnt of a similar incident, she decided to register a complaint and narrated the incident to her parents, police said. 
 
 The complaint was registered under Sections 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code and 9 (c) (public servant committing   on child) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
 
 
