At best, one would have visited about 20 Durga Puja pandals over the days that the festival extended itself this year. These would have included some of the big ones, but mostly the smaller ones. For many , their sightseeing of these pandals would have not gone beyond the four or five in their immediate vicinity . We need to be properly appreciative of the thousands of amateur, mobilephone camerawalas who captured the Pujas and posted their images on social media. I know a great many who vicariously enjoyed Durga Puja this year without leaving the confines of the world wide web. I happily occupied a slot somewhere in between. The thought of mingling with the enthusiastic, sweat-enhanced, perfumed crowds braving the horrid Calcutta pawcha gorom of the season, and the enticing unlimited offer from a new internet ISP , helped me balance my experience.The interiors of some of the pandals were breathtakingly awe some. Design, art, and fabri cation excellence were instantly apparent. As a pucca tourist with no religious motive at all, it helped me look at the scenes objectively . They were creations by people who employed their abilities as worship. As a non-believer, there is no better way to express the amazing works I saw. Not too long ago, I had the advantage of working closely with one of India's foremost exhibitionexperiencemuseum designers, Amardeep Behl. I have no doubt that much of what Amar was trying to achieve in his designs, for example, in the   in Pune, the DS Group Museum in Noida, and the Virasat-eKhalsa museum in   -the biggest such museum in the world, are achieved every year in Calcutta's Puja pandals.

 INDIAN AT THE CORE
 
 With the insight of observing spatial design and its execution for interior spaces up close, I understand there are shortcuts taken for temporary spaces like Puja pandals, but impossible for the permanent spaces Amar designs collaboratively. However, the design and the ethos of it are so similar -Indian at the core, in Calcutta's case Bengali, but contemporary in design and vision. It is worth mentioning that many of the artists and creative persons who worked in Amardeep Behl's projects in Delhi, Punjab, Noida, Pune, and elsewhere were Bengali.
 
 Which then makes me wonder why are there no such museums in this, our part of the country. Look at the doddering institutions we have -the Indian Museum,  , the  , Gurusaday Museum. Impressive, but pitiful. Forget museums, we have no experience centres or places of immersive interest. An attempt was made to permanently showcase Puja pandal design and art in the Dhakuria Lakes some time ago. Like plenty of Calcutta initiatives, it has gone on a permanent cha break.
 
 Why do we not incorporate the design aesthetics of Puja pandal art into our museums, even if only a single gallery to start with? Why does a visit to every museum in this city make you feel like you are in a college lecture you would rather bunk and sit in the canteen dipping projapoti biskut in milky sweet tea? Strangely enough, this was exactly what was once conceived as part of a makeover for the Indian Museum, a café of all things, to get people to come to the museum. Such pro saic thinking by people who have the means to do wonders, if only they would.Seminars, exhibitions, and discussion forums can only be a tiny part of what attracts people to see museums for what they were meant to be. From the very entry, visitors should feel they have gained not just in knowledge and information, but in the overall experience of the exhibits itself. I have personally witnessed illiterate visitors to the Khalsa Museum in Anandpur Sahib, Punjab, being overwhelmed upon listening to a dramatic narration over wireless earphones of the stories being told in each gallery. They took off their footwear and covered their heads to express their deep respect of the subject. Shouldn't our Indian Museum be able to inspire that?
 
 AVENUES TO IMPROVE
 
 Imagine what could be done with the Tagore Museum, the Victoria Memorial, Gurusaday , the Jagadish Chandra Bose Museum. Imagine or recall the thrill one experiences in the themed pandals of Durga Puja. Imagine the story of JC Bose discovering plants respond to external stimuli, or wireless signalling, told to you in a judiciously designed and holistic way , putting together dramatic audio, composed music, exhibition and graphic design elements, video and SFX, art in paint, wood and metal work, CGI and automation, engineering and architecture, in a singular, comprehensive, immersive experience. Or one of Rabindranath composing the National Anthem. Of course, all this costs money . When there's ample spending on blue and white on public thoroughfares, I fail to see why it's not possible to improve places of public interest.
 
 It is worth recalling a classical piece for piano from 1874, Pictures at an exhibition, composed by the Russian, Modest Mussorgsky , was inspired by his friendship with Viktor Hartman, an artist and architect, and their mutual dedication to the cause of the arts. Many versions of this music have been rendered excellently .I first heard the composition by the nowdefunct British progressive rock band, ELP , Emerson, Lake and Palmer, in the late '70s. Give it a listen.
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE
