New Delhi:   Students’ Union ( ) and other such organisations on Tuesday organised a protest to commemorate the first death anniversary of University of Hyderabad student  .

 The ‘Insaf March’ was carried out by JNUSU, Left outfits from JNU and   and Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) from Mandi House to the MHRD office at Shastri Bhawan. The students were, however, stopped and detained by the police at Parliament street police station.
 
 On January 17, Rohith Vemula, a PhD student at University of Hyderabad, was suspended which prompted him to commit suicide. This led to protests across the country.
 
 The protesters had planned to march to Shastri Bhawan, but they were asked to shift to Jantar Mantar. The students then decided to have a sit-in at Janpath Chowk near Janpath Metro station. Anticipating chaos and the possibility of a traffic jam, the police and paramilitary forces took the students to Parliament street police station and detained them there.
 
 Calling Vemula’s death and the recent implementation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) May 5 notification at JNU examples of discrimination against the marginalised sections, the students demanded punishment for the Hyderabad University vice-chancellor and others accused of abetting the student’s suicide. They also demanded a rollback of the UGC notification and reinstatement of 11 suspended JNU students.
 
 The students also drew a parallel between Vemula’s death and the disappearance of JNU MSc student Najeeb Ahmed. A statement by All India Student’s Association (AISA) said that “the JNU vice-chancellor framed Ahmed as an accused, while refusing to punish his assaulters from ABVP even after the proctorial inquiry found them guilty.”
 
 Mohit Pandey, JNUSU president, claimed that he was dragged and beaten up by the police. “The police are fearful of the students’ demand for justice for Najeeb and Rohith and are brutally attacking us. The arbitrary use of force against students, particularly women, by the police and the high number of paramilitary forces shows their brutal nature,” he said.
 
 A host of protests were also held across various institutions in the city to commemorate Vemula’s first death anniversary. NSUI organised a candlelight vigil at the JNU campus. BAPSA, many of whose members have been suspended by the JNU administration, conducted a ‘Resistance March’ at the campus as part of their ‘Shaadat’ or Martyrdom Day. Students of   also organised a candlelight vigil at their campus.
 
 Meanwhile, the AAP MLA from Malviya Nagar, Somnath Bharti, said that he will raise an adjournment motion in the assembly on Wednesday over the manhandling of the students, especially girls.
 
