NEW DELHI: A chance arrest on charges of driving under influence and rash driving in central London changed Shamiun Rahman’s life forever. In a London jail, where he served out a short sentence, he was not only brainwashed and radicalised, but also prepared to go and join what his recruiters told him was a “global jihad” to establish  .

 It took the best of Indian interrogators to break down Rahman. But once broken, Rahman had a lot of reveal. He said that his parents had moved to Britain from what was then East Pakistan in 1960. His father, Hamdu Mian, started a business in central London and eventually built a house on Port Pool Lane. The 27-year-old also disclosed that he had dropped out of school in Class XI and began taking drugs and alcohol.
 
 In 2011, he was caught for traffic violations and sentenced to 11 months’ imprisonment. He got a suspended sentence, but had to serve four months in jail. “Belonging to a family of bankers and managers, Rahman had a hard time in prison,” a police officer said. “This was when he was provided protection and radicalised by jihadists in the jail.” Rahman’s confession reminded his Indian interrogators of 52-year-old Khalid Masood, the man who ploughed his car into people on the Westminster bridge, who too had been radicalised in a British prison.
 
 Just 20 then, Rahman showed extreme rigour and inclination towards religion after he was bailed out. Contacts helped him reach the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, a west African country. There, he came under the influence of Salafi teachings of the leaders of al-Qaida in Islamic Maghreb. He underwent askari (weapon training) and deeni (religious training) in Mauritania and Morocco.
 
 Once ready as a soldier, AQIM sent Rahman to Syria to fight for the al Nusra front. He reported to Abu Mohammad al-Julani, top commander of the outfit, and underwent rigorous battle training in Atmeh province in Syria. He fought for close to a year in Aleppo, he told police.
 
 He wasn’t to have a permanent stint there, however. With his Bangladeshi background, he was chosen to travel to the country of his parents and raise a fighter group there. From Syria, he returned to London where he found himself on the watch list and was even questioned by authorities, However, he was let off for lack of evidence, Rahman claimed during this questioning.
 
 The young man’s persuasion skills, which interrogators said were of the highest type, served him well in Bangladesh, where he was able to recruit, among others, Asif Adnan, son of a former high court judge, and Tanzeel, son of a bureaucrat.
 
 
