The DMK members had no brains. Instead of creating such a big ruckus, had one of them just charged towards the podium, the person occupying the chair would have simply rushed out of the place, fearing for his life," an AIADMK MP was heard commenting to a close confidante recently. The MP was referring to the pandemonium that broke out in the Tamil Nadu assembly in February this year during the floor test to ascertain whether the Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) government enjoyed a majority in the house, in the wake of the rebellion by the O Panneerselvam group. And the person he was talking about was P  , the   of the TN assembly.

 EPS not only survived, he also managed to sideline T T V Dhinakaran, who put him in the chief minister’s seat. Soon when TTV looked for a name to checkmate EPS, the speaker’s was the one that propped up. "We want Dhanapal to be the CM," said a TTV supporter. Dhanapal saw the bait clearly—and ducked. Soon he was seen rubbing shoulders with chief minister EPS at government functions more frequently than earlier.
 
 "We have no idea, how his name cropped up (for CM post) from the TTV camp" — is all that a family member would say on the topic. That simply underlined the stark silence that Dhanapal himself has maintained on the issue.
 
 Today, as the faction fight intensifies by the day, Dhanapal continues to be in the limelight, as the speaker who summoned rebels and the referee who can make a difference. At 66, Dhanapal, a six-time MLA, looks composed. He is a mild-mannered and simple man, but no pushover. In 1984, he survived a near fatal accident near Salem, when the car in which he was travelling was involved in a ghastly smash-up with a truck. The scars continue to tell the story though, as people who have watched him from close quarters would vouch on the difficulty he continues to face to put a pen to his right hand due to the ‘wrist drop’ he suffered, as a result of the accident.
 
 That survival instinct and courage could well be called to play over the next few days and weeks, as Dhanapal manoeuvers his way through the political and legal turmoil.
 
 People like V K Sasikala’s brother V Dhivaharan are still nursing the dream of propping up Dhanapal against EPS. "He is a senior. Despite having more than 30 members in the house, the SC/ST community has only one ministerial representation, besides the speaker. If 38 members of another segment (referring to gounders — a community that EPS represents) can enjoy so many posts in the cabinet, why should this community always be sidelined with just the Adi Dravidar and the social welfare portfolios? This is the right opportunity to truly herald social justice into the state," says Dhivaharan.
 
 "All the top leaders in the party, including K A Sengottaiyan, have surrendered themselves to the diktats of the BJP. Dhanapal is the only one not to have done that and remains clean," says another member of the Sasikala family who did not want to be named.
 
 Dhanapal happens to be just one of the three sitting MLAs (of the 33 then) who sided with J Jayalalithaa post MGR’s death. The others are K A Sengottaiyan, and TNCC president S Thirunavukarasar. "He is a very good person at heart. He has remained the same since 1977 when I first saw him. He remains a respectful man and one who does not see any prestige in whatever position he is in," says R S Munirathinam, chairman, RMK Engineering College and a three-time AIADMK legislator from Thiruvallur district. 
 
 Thirunavukarasar says choosing a CM is the AIADMK’s internal job. "Dhanapal’s name is floated. As far as I know him, he is a simple person from the dalit community and has come up through dint of hard work," says Thirunavukarasar. 
 
 
