KOLKATA: Bablu Tiwari, who lives in a   and drives an app cab, didn’t dream of owning a home in the city. Meena Shaw, a  , always dreamt of a   away from the cacophony of the   but never believed it would ever come true. 

 Things have changed for the better for both and many like them. Shaw, who earns around Rs 2 lakh a year, and Tiwari with an earning of Rs 3.5 lakh have begun scouting for flats since Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on New Year’s Eve, offering 4% discount on   up to Rs 9 lakh and 4% up to Rs 12 lakh has spurred them and many others working in the informal sector to realise the dream of owning a home.
 
 “I need a flat of around 450-500 sq ft, priced around Rs 14-15 lakh located not too far from the city. I have some savings but require a loan of Rs 12 lakh. That means paying an EMI of over Rs 12,000, which is beyond my reach. But if I get a 3% discount on the loan rate, a bank official said the EMI would be under Rs 10,000. I can definitely work towards that,” said Shaw. 
 
 Realising the spurt in demand for houses from taxi, auto and private car drivers, nurses, salesmen and others engaged in the informal sector, developers in the city are also rushing to the drawing board to get spartan flats. To be sized 350-450 sq ft, the flats at Rs 2,500-2,800 per sq ft will be priced Rs 12-18 lakh to fit the bugdet. 
 
 “We are foreseeing the emergence of a new class of home buyers and expect a huge demand in the near future. A large number of projects will get launched under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY) in the next four-six months in the peripheral areas of Rajarhat, beyond Madhyamgram, Joka, Sonarpur station and along Basanti highway,” said Nandu Belani, president of the Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai-Bengal).
 
 With SBI slashing the home loan interest rate to 8.6%, the PM’s announcement translates to a loan of Rs 9 lakh at 4.6% and that of Rs 12 lakh at 5.6% as of now. Banks are expected to slash the interest rate further in the coming months.
 
 Sushil Mohta, past president of Credai-Bengal, said the offer under PMAY will encourage lakhs working in the informal sector to become a part of the formal economy and allow them to own homes. “By reducing interest rate on Rs 9-12 lakh loans, this class of people will be encouraged to file IT returns so that they can avail of the scheme. Till now, the few that used to buy small tentaments had to take loan from individuals at rates much higher than what banks offer. Thus, they will get a better product at a lower price,” said Mohta.
 
 Samantak Das, chief economist and national director of international real estate consultant Knight Frank, said as developers move in to create budget mass housing in the peripheral areas of the city, the physical infrastructure in these localities will also improve. “Kolkata has been slow to spread out. I think this plan has the requisite impetus to expedite the growth on both sides of the river,” he added.
 
 
