NAGPUR: About seven days ago, a 32-year-old woman from Hyderabad visited HCG-NCHRI   Centre in city and was detected with   of stage four. Soon after the first counselling session, the psychotherapy department of the hospital discovered that the patient has never heard of the term ‘breast cancer’ and was not aware that the lump could lead to mortality.

 About 60% of all the breast cancer cases at the hospital belong to either stage 3 or 4. Hospital director Dr Ajay Mehta said, “Less that 10% patients at state 3 and 4 survive for more than five years.”
 
 The hospital on Sunday initiated a month-long campaign marking the International Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Chief Minister’s wife Amruta Fadnavis, Dr Ajay Mehta, hospital’s psycho oncology department head Dr Suchitra Mehta, breast cancer survivor   and Dr   from radiation oncology department participated in the discussion.
 
 Dr Ajay Mehta said, “The rate of breast cancer is definitely rising. In India, 1.25 to 2 lakh new cancer patients are added every year, while about 2,000 women are detected with breast cancer every day. About 60% of them are from the early age group 40-45 years. In other countries, about 60% patients are in the age group above 60 years.”
 
 Mehta said, “Late marriage, late first child and avoiding breast feeding are some of the reasons that increase chances of breast cancer.”
 
 Apart from the hospital staff, various breast cancer survivors and citizens attended the awareness programme.
 
 Clearing some myths about cancer, Das said, “I was saved as the cancer was detected early. I had to undergo chemotherapy which had various side effects, like blackening of skin and even hair loss. More than me, relatives who used to visit me had became curious. The doctors assured me that in a short time my hair and skin will be back to normal and that actually happened.”
 
 “For a cancer patient, it’s really important to believe in your doctor,” she added. Das has been spreading awareness about breast cancer by visiting various places.
 
 Giving example of a campaign held at   by Rotary Club recently, she said, “The people over there were surprise to know that I am survivor. Many of them have never seen a breast cancer survivor in their town.” 
 
