LUCKNOW: The whirring sounds of a chopper descending on his school field are a distinct memory that   carries from his days at Military School, Dholpur. This was around 1989-90, he was in his last years in school when one of the signature moments of his life happened.
 
  The whole school watched as the chopper settled down at a spot. The rotors settled, doors opened and from it emerged  , the then new Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. “That was the first time in my life I realised my father’s stature. Kya rutba (stature) tha. I said wow, that’s my father. The whole school watched. I felt really proud,” Akhilesh told ET, reminiscing the first political imageries he built of his father.
  
  “Until then, I hadn’t quite understood the significance of what my father was doing as a political leader. Or let’s say it hadn’t registered. But I can’t forget that day because that day I realised my father was someone big, important.” Barely hours after he shared this with ET on Friday, his father, now his ‘Netaji’, expelled him from the Samajwadi Party along with uncle Ram Gopal Yadav. His father reversed the decision within 24 hours but the son had seen it coming.
  
  Rewind. Akhilesh’s thoughts on his father are distracted by an urgent call. The voice from the other side bears out a sense of panic as reports of   heading for a split gather steam. “Yes uncle, you please come tomorrow and talk. No, I promise I won’t do anything till you come,” Akhilesh speaks with an assuring tone.
  
  The person at the other end was SP veteran Azam Khan, an old Mulayam confidant, also like a ‘chacha’ to Akhilesh. By now the conversation is a bit more animated as Khan presses the caution button many times over. “Nahin chacha BJP ko nahin aane denge (No, we will not let BJP come to power),” says Akhilesh, further reassuring Khan that he will not precipitate matters.
  
  Just a day earlier, Akhilesh had met Mulayam. The meeting lasted for over two hours with another party veteran Balram Singh Yadav by their side. The conversation was quite unproductive recounting his days with VP Singh, Chandra Shekhar and how he had halted LK Advani’s ambitions.
  
  “There’s always a lot to learn from him but at this stage, all I have been asking is what instructions do you have for me? Tell me, what I have to do and I will do. I am clear that we have to fight the elections with the blessings of Netaji. In fact, every candidate will go and take Netaji’s blessings before fighting the elections,” says Akhilesh trying hard to convey that he hadn’t reached ‘break-off’ point with his father.
  
  
 
  If he’s a ‘good son’, then why is his dad so upset with him? Akhilesh’s instinctive response: “I don’t know.” But that’s not wholly true either. Scratch further: Was it 2014, does Mulayam hold Akhilesh responsible for the debacle?
  
  “Maybe. Yes, we lost but who could predict what happened. I think we still managed to keep our share of the vote. But who thought BSP will not even manage the share they did in the assembly polls. Or Congress would be wiped out in this manner. This is democracy. One has to just accept it.”.
  
  Yet, the relationship soured. Akhilesh holds “outsiders like Amar Singh” responsible. But there was also a distinct clash of worldviews.
  
  For instance, Mulayam had an idea to give two saris to every widow. Akhilesh thought that was old school. In his view, farming out contracts, assuring quality of saris and then respecting diversity of ethnic wear made it a somewhat messy task.
  
  So, he asked his officials to come up with something better. From there, emerged the Samajwadi Pension Scheme. “Look, it’s a better way to just put money in their accounts. We started with a seed amount of Rs 500. Isn’t that better? They can do what they want with the money,” rationalises Akhilesh. But the real   for the Akhilesh government post-2014 lay in law and order, preventing communal flare-ups like Muzaffarnagar.
  
  Problem: Posting a thaana incharge had become a matter of political patronage. This is a longstanding accusation on SP, particularly on the Yadav family, that they foist officers of the Yadav clan in police stations. Patronage bred inefficiency over time and Muzaffarnagar was a would be transferred from just one thaana to the other. Now, there’s a punishment,” explained an official.
  
  Also, postings were aligned to the Approved List based on   of officers eligible to head police stations. While implementing that may still be work in progress, the churn within the police system post-Muzaffarnagar indeed affected old-style control. So, when an eve-teasing incident with a Muslim girl in Bijnor in September led to a Jat-Muslim conflagration and killing of four Muslim youths, better judgment allowed the ADGP to be there in few hours. “A senior officer’s presence meant local politicians could be warded off,” a senior police official told ET.
  
  With these gains, came a depletion of authority over transfers and postings. “We have to move with time. If we don’t, then why will the young vote for us. UP 100 (Police emergency number) is one way to do that, especially to ensure women’s safety,” says Akhilesh.
  
  
 
  All this had put Akhilesh at odds with some of the old guard, including his father, who had once been praised for the way he had passed on the baton to his son. In fact, when he took Akhilesh to meet ex-Speaker Meira Kumar in her chambers, she insisted on serving them sweets as a way to show her appreciation for Mulayam’s farsightedness.
  
  “Yes, I remember that,” recalls Akhilesh who went on to win UP in 2012 with a majority that surpassed his father’s best. That very year, another helicopter landed at Military School, Dholpur. This time the doors opened for another new CM of UP, Akhilesh Yadav — the chief guest for the Golden Jublee Celebrations, also by then the school’s most famous alumnus.
  
  The rutba was now his, so was the chopper. But the difficult part, as he ambled across five years later in his Lucknow residence to meet few of his MLAs for the umpteenth time, was the sinking realisation that his father was no longer applauding him.
  
