CHENNAI: Several IT firms along   are in danger of shutting down business on Thursday as the strike called by the South Chennai Private   threatens to enter the fourth day.

 Some of the 1,000-odd tankers involved in the strike, however, were back on the road on Wednesday after one of the five impounded tankers was released. But the tanker association maintained that the strike had not ended.
 
 Chengalpet sub-collector V P Jayaseelan held talks with the tanker owners on Wednesday afternoon and released one of the five tankers after collecting a fine of Rs 2000.
 
 Thiruporur panchayat revenue department officials had impounded two tankers on March 1 and seized three more the following day . The owners of the impounded tankers had drawn water from fields in Ponmar and Polacheri in Chengalpet, following which residents complained to officials. Jayaseelan said that the er four tankers would not other four tankers would not be released until the owners paid the fine.
 
 “The free electricity provided by the government to agricultural fields is exploited by tanker owners to pump groundwater. Henceforth the tanker operators must get prior permission from the state groundwater authorities before drawing groundwater,“ he said. The state government has given the tanker owners one month to fall in line.
 
 The tankers on strike are parked in Navalur and Thoraipakkam along the OMR and in Pallikaranai along Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road. The authorities said they were not sure how many tankers were in operation as many plied without permission.
 
 Residents along OMR and ECR depend on water from private tanker operators as they do not have Metrowater connections. National Association of Software and Services Companies (Nasscom) regional director K Purushothaman said the IT industry body had contacted all officials concerned to bring an end to the strike but to no avail. “There are three lakh direct professionals employed in IT firms along the OMR.Several companies, including Cognizant, Wipro and PayPal, are in danger of shutting down business due to non-availability of water.“
 
 IT firms along OMR that generate business worth `100 crore every day could be the worst hit if the strike continues as it did in 2013, forcing many firms to suspend activity. On behalf of the IT firms,   (ELCOT) paid the government `9 crore six months ago as part of an agreement for supply of drinking water from the Nemmeli desalination plant. But the IT corridor is still dependent on private tanker operators.
 
 SVASTI owners and residents association (Thoraipakkam) secretary Riaz Ahmed said that they had been without water since Monday .“Groundwater on OMR is too salty for consumption. We will be pushed to explore it if the strike continues.“
 
 Tanker association president N Nijalingam said officials treated them like criminals when they sought release of the impounded vehicles.“We pay for the water we draw from farms,“ he said.
