In their rush to flood the city with glitzy IT parks and new-age high-rises, government authorities seem to have conveniently turned their back on an important promise they made to  : giving them sufficient open spaces. The   has a meagre 3.78% of its area as planned open spaces. Out of the region's area of 4,892.98 sq km, open spaces account for only 226.27 sq km, whereas in most other places of comparable size, they are in the 400-650 sq km range.

 That's not all. While the urban development ministry's urban and regional development plans, formulation and implementation wing mandates that a city like Hyderabad provides at least 10 sq m of green cover to every citizen, the per-capita open space available in the Telangana capital is just 0.220.25 sq m.
 
 Yet the authorities are far from perturbed. What else explains why 743 parks promised to be developed by the   (GMHC) in 2010 haven't seen the light of day? While officials blame it on “budgetary restraints“, environmentalists aren't in the least amused.
 
 “Over the years, the local government has issued multiple GOs (government orders) to protect open spaces. Ironically, it has issued double that number during the same period to convert those spaces either into residential plots or sites for commercial development. That speaks volumes about the government's intent,“ rues Captain J Rama Rao.
 
 Worse, even the existing parks, which according to GHMC records, number 580, are in a deplorable state. Most have been encroached on by the real estate mafia, while others have turned into garbage dumps.
 
 “Almost every park has been subjected to some for m of encroachment. There are electric transformers, buildings and piles of waste at these open spaces now.Looking at them one can never imagine that they were originally developed for people to walk, jog or simply breathe fresh air,“ says Ashwin Kumar, a resident of Shantinagar, Masab Tank.
 
 On the other side of the city, in Serilingampally, parks are nothing but new property hot-spots. “There are 227 plots in our colony in Rajender Reddy Nagar. While the rest of the area within the gated community was designed to serve as a park or jogging track, it has now been encroached on by an individ ual, who claims to be the relative of a politician. He is planning to develop a fresh crop of residential units in the area,“ says K Bhaskara Reddy, a member of the NGO Janam Kosam. Appalled by the government's apathy , residents of Himayathnagar filed a case at Hyderabad High Court on November 8. Captain Manohar Sharma, president, Uma Nagar Residents' Welfare Association, Begum pet, says, “In 2011, the GHMC announced that it would offer cash rebates to colonies that uphold the city's green cover. Though we have striven to do that, no such benefits have come our way .“
 
