PUNE: The state election commission (SEC) is aiming for an 80% turnout in the Pune and   municipal corporation elections on Tuesday. However, though the SEC and the civic administrations have pulled out all the stops to ensure a high voter participation, the target nonetheless seems daunting.

 For, the highest polling in the civic body elections has been 60.7% in Pune and 68.7% in Pimpri Chinchwad -both in the 1997 civic body elections. In the next elections in 2012, the voting percentage declined to 51% and 54.8% in the two cities respectively.
 
 “People must come out and vote for good governance.Voting is a democratic right that one has to exercise. The SEC has taken maximum efforts to ensure a higher percentage of voting this time,“ said state election commissioner  .
 
 The new corporators to be elected in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will have important decisions to take during their five-year tenure, which include the execution of a development plan, the ambitious metro rail project and the   projects.
 
 “Pune is on the verge of deciding its long-term future. Citizens have participated in the exercise of creating a vision (during the Smart City Mission competition). It is now time to elect people who will turn these dreams into reality. Citizens must come forward with zeal and enthusiasm to elect those who will realise the vision. The next five years are going to be crucial, especially for the youth, because Pune is going to be developed as an   hub. The youth will be get jobs according to their talent.More investment will be needed for   development,“ said Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar.
 
 Satish Khot of the   said going out to exercise one's franchise translates into active participation in urban governance. “After performing one's duty as a citizen by voting, one enjoys the right to question decisions made by the civic body. Every single vote will determine the future of the city and will ensure equitable service delivery and a decent quality of life,“ he pointed out.
 
