LUCKNOW : The medal tally for Lucknow University’s 59th convocation was unusual as 62% graduates who received their degrees were females. Of 37,000 on whom degrees were conferred on Saturday, 23,000 were girls and 14,000 boys. 

 Highlighting this fact, Chancellor of state univerisities governor   said, “LU is an exception and the figures show women empowerment has caught pace in the country.’’ Naik presented another set of figures, even more surprising—of the 187 medals awarded, 147 were won by girls. “As I conferred the medals, I was wondering where were all the boys and when I looked at percentage, I saw girls took away 79% medals,’’ said Naik, adding in a lighter vein, “Agar aisa rahega, to aapka aur hamara kya hoga (If this trend remains, what are we (men) going to do).’’
 
 Hard work, said Naik, has no substitute to face tough competition in the world today. Graduating students must not accept defeat and in later in life, they must take care of not only their family but the society too. India, said Naik, is one of the biggest countries in the world, and by 2025, it will have maximum young population. 
 
 He termed the youth an asset for the nation. But at the same time, they are vulnerable, and that makes them a liability for the nation, he added. “Terrorists are educated and intelligent and use latest technology but they have taken the wrong path, hence have become a liability,’’ cautioned Naik, adding that for graduates, though time of learning from books has come to an end, the learning process is lifelong and they must try to be an asset for the nation.
 
 Naik advised graduates to take the way forward like many illustrious LU alumni. From India’s first President Shankar Dayal Sharma to eminent scientists, renowned educationists, the university has been home to many. “In the field of music,   and   are names to reckon in bhajan and folk singing. Like them, university has given many more such students to the country,’’ said Naik. 
 
 Exhorting young graduates to join politics, he said, “Youth should also look at politics as a career as it gives an opportunity to serve people and the country.’’ 
 
 THUS SPOKE THE GOVERNOR
 
 ‘Shivaji statue will instill courage’
 
 The 14-feet tall statue of Indian warrior Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaja will instill courage and valour among the students of Lucknow University. The statue is one of the three best things that happened in LU last year. Two other things—ONGC building for boosting research and a new vice-chancellor. 
 
 Four mantras for successful life
 
 All graduates should remember four things—Smile, smile, smile and smile’, ‘Appreciate’, ‘Don’t belittle others’ and ‘There is always a better way to do things’—which will take them forward.
 
 When Justice Bhosale’s father was Maharashtra CM 
 
 When Babasaheb Bhosale, father of Justice D B Bhosale was chief minister of Maharashtra, I was in the Opposition. “Aaj main keh sakta hoon, yogya pita ke yogya putra aaj UP ko mile hai (UP has got a qualified son of a qualified father),’’ said Naik.
 
 Exercise power of vote
 
 Based on his own experience and facts, Naik exhorted the audience, particularly students to exercise their right to vote in the upcoming assembly elections. In 2012 UP assembly polls, there were 12.74 crore voters in UP, and only 59.5% people cast their votes. In 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the number of voters was 13.88 crore but the voter turnout was 58.2%. According to latest   figures, there are 14.13 crore voters this year, an increase of 24 lakh new voters. “Not only our right, it is our collective duty to cast our vote,’’ said Naik.
 
 
