KOLKATA: An impoverished family from Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, that camped outside a mental hospital in the city for a fortnight to get their son released, finally managed to do so on Saturday afternoon. The delight on the faces of the  , Vikas Kumar Yadav (22), his father Ram Balak and younger brother  , was evident as they walked out of  .

 A TOI report published on Thursday highlighted the plight of the family as its attempts to get Vikas out were repeatedly being foiled by the hospital authorities who insisted on a reverse court order. Following the report, the health department officials put the onus of securing the court order on the hospital, willing them to act. 
 
 Mental health activist  , who argued the case with hospital authorities, said a reverse order from court stating that the person is fit to be discharged is not required by law.
 
 “The hospital authorities were insisting on it because a court had previously summoned the psychiatrist and hospital superintendent asking why patients had been discharged. Hence, they were asking for the reverse order as insurance. But there is nothing like a reverse court order in the Mental Health Act. Such manufactured rules are a harassment to patients’ families and lead to perpetual overcrowding in hospitals,” said Ray.
 
 Doctors acknowledged that Vikas, who underwent treatment through medication and counselling, did not need hospitalization any longer.
 
 Vikas was taken to the hospital by the New Town police in May after he was found wandering aimlessly. According to Ram Balak, Vikas went missing from their home in Rewa’s Jirauha village three years ago. All attempts to trace him failed and the family had given up hope when the local police station told them Vikas had been traced to the hospital.
 
 Vikas was able to recollect his address and the names of his parents while being treated. Cops verified the details and reached out to his family.
 
 Ram Balak, a farmer, organised funds to travel to Kolkata and reached the hospital on July 18 with his younger son Prakash. Since then, they had been trying to get Vikas released. The father-son duo slept in the balcony of the hospital’s administrative building as they could not afford any other accommodation. Volunteers of Anjali Mental Health Rights Organisation came across the family on Wednesday and offered help.
 
 “We are glad the patient has been reunited with the family,” said Ganesh Prasad, superintendent of Calcutta Pavlov Hospital.
 
