HYDERABAD: After Aligarh and Dehradun campuses, the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) protest fire spread to   on Monday with   ( ) rising in support of the students. BHU has been on the boil since September 23 after a woman student was allegedly eve-teased, while she was returning to her hostel. The incident triggered massive protests and a subsequent lathicharge left students injured.
In a statement, the union condemned the police assault on students. “The RSS-BJP government and their puppet BHU administration are scared of students and their united voice against atrocities and patriarchal mindset. The students' union ( ) condemns this undemocratic and brutal lathicharge by the Yogi-government's police forces in the very constituency of PM Narendra Modi,“ read the statement issues on Sunday night. “The union stands in solidarity with students who bravely withstood the attempt to silence their voices,“ the statement said.
 
 ASJ is also planning to be a part of a larger national level protest. “The brutal attack on women students by police officers at BHU is very unfortuna te. By resorting to lathicharge, police has only made students stronger and we are planning to be a part of the nationwide protest,“ said P Sreerag, president of the UoH students union.   (SFI) also launched protests at South campus shopping complex on Monday against the attacks. With slogans such as `Stand with BHU students', SFI members burnt an effigy of police and the BHU administration called the act of deploying police against protestors as `patriarchal and shameful'.
 
 “We demand justice to the harassed student and strict action to be taken against police,“ reads a statement issued by SFI (UoH unit).Not just the Left organizations, but even Congressled NSUI and BJP's ABVP supported BHU.
 
 
 
 
 UoH will conduct fresh elections for the vice-president's post as the grievance committee found that theASJ candidate Naresh Lunavath did not meet the basic eligibility criterion of 75% attendance. 
 
