Panaji:   have fallen behind in Indian football’s pecking order but having grabbed two victories on the trot they might start fancying their chances in the   for the  .
 
  The 31-time champions last won the tournament in 2011 and have not come anywhere close to adding to that record tally for the last six years.   are now calling the shots, winning four of the last five editions, but Bengal proved they were just as good with a hard-fought 1-0 victory at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Tuesday.
  
  The victory, thanks to a fine goal from Moirangthem Singh in the 20th minute, took them to top of the group and they can confirm their place in the semifinals if they win any of their last two group matches.
  
  As if determined to defy critics who had mocked their last-minute win against minnows Chandigarh in the opener, Bengal started swiftly with Moirangthem and Manvir Singh taking quick turns to test the rival goalkeeper. Manvir in particular looked the most potent, using his height and strength to muscle his way through, but his finishing – just like the opening game – left a lot to be desired.
  
  Moirangthem was patient, and so was winger Shaikhom Singh, who had the first look at the rival goal when he raced ahead to meet a through ball. But with only the keeper to beat, he messed it all up by choosing power over placement.
  
  The youngster, fielded as part of the under-21 guidelines, didn’t lose heart. In fact, he simply got better as the match progressed and ran rings around the defending champions. In one such move, his shot from the left was turned away by Services defender N Herojitgh Singh, only for Moirangthem to curl it beautifully past a bewildered Services goalkeeper.
  
  Services were disappointing, although they did have their chances to get something out of the game. Arjun Tudu, the striker who was handpicked by India coach Stephen Constantine for the national camp, was almost invisible on the field, and made it even more difficult for his side to fight back after picking his second booking for a needless push. He was promptly sent off in the 73rd minute.
  
  Despite the numerical disadvantage, Services pressed hard but couldn’t find the equalizer. Jain P seemed their best bet; his free-kick and a powerful in-stepper were saved by goalkeeper Sankar Roy and when he beat the keeper with another good shot, the goalpost stood in-between.
  
  This was not to be their day as Bengal pulled ahead of the pack, despite having one their own players – Monotosh Chakladar -- also sent off for a second bookable offence with only a minute on the clock.
