Nagpur: Names of all individuals who had applied for state government’s farm loan waiver scheme were read out in villages across the state on October 2. Chavdi Vachan, as it is called in rural jargon, literally translates into reading out in a village square.  It was an open call for anyone to raise an objection against a particular claimant if the person did not meet the conditions laid down in the scheme. This means if a person whose name is called out was rich enough not to fit in the scheme’s criterion, other villagers had a chance to report the case during the Chavdi Vachan exercise. The state government has kept out persons having additional income, or those filing income tax returns out of the waiver scheme. The names were read out at the village square in public presence. However, villages where panchayat elections were due were excluded. This is because the election code of conduct is in force at these villages. In Nagpur district over 200 villages were not covered due to the code of conduct. Even though objective of Chavdi Vachan was to filter out the ineligible claimants, it was part of the process to dole out benefit through a government scheme. Since it can provide an advantage to the ruling party, the villages going to polls were left out, said sources concerned with the development. There are around 8,000 villages in the sate where elections are due and the code of conduct is in force, said Kishore Tiwari of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government think tank on farmers. Tiwari said in some villages there were complaints that some farmers’ names did not figure in the list read out even though they had applied for the waiver.  The names were read out by gram sewaks. In some places, two or more villages were covered by a single gram sewak. The feedback will be compiled by the Tehsil level committee which will report the matter to the district, from there it would go further up. An official, who is part of the implementation, said reports were being collected. Meanwhile, the banks have initiated the process of uploading the data of defaulters on the aapley sarkar portal where the farmers had applied for waiver. The banks will also be putting up Aadhaar and mobile numbers of farmers. The data will be matched with the applications made from the farmers’ end. Aadhaar, mobile and the bank details will have to match. For example if farmer has mentioned Bank X in the application and his name is uploaded by Bank Y, no waiver will be applicable.  Under the scheme, loans up to Rs1.5 lakh will be fully waived. If a farmer has two loans from different banks within Rs1.5 lakh. If both the banks upload data that also match with details mentioned in the farmer’s application farm, both loans can entirely be waived, said an official. In a Nutshell * Chavdi Vachan is public reading of names of waiver applicants * It is to ensure no ineligible person applies * Villages where elections are due were left out * This is because of code of conduct in force at such villages