NAGPUR: Marking the third anniversary of the   government, Union surface transport minster Nitin Gadkari along with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis flagged off taxi aggregator Ola’s electronic vehicle (EV) services in the city. 

 Nagpur, which is the home turf of both Gadkari (MP) and Fadnavis (MLA from South-West) will be the first in country to have such a service. A battery charging station for the vehicles was also inaugurated at the airport where the launch function was held. 
 
 Fadnavis announced that the state government will soon come up with measures to promote setting up of charging stations. This is expected to be a major job provider especially to the technically educated youth. 
 
 “Soon there would be a rush to start electronic vehicle (EVs) charging stations as it used to be for petrol pumps. The state will announce a policy spelling out details like rules, permissions, land requirements and other aspects for starting a charging point,” said the chief minister. 
 
 The state has done away with VAT and road tax for all EVs, Fadnavis added.
 
 To begin with, Ola will be having four charging centres in the city. Its services will include taxis, auto-rickshaws and a couple of buses. Car-maker Mahindra and Mahindra is the major ally of Ola and is supplying 200 taxis. The company also launched its e-autorickshaws on the occasion.
 
  has provided 100 e-rickshaws to Ola. A few petrol-run auto rickshaws, re-engineered into battery-run by a local groups led by Congress ex-MLA Anees Ahmed, too were supplied. The buses have been provided by   and  .
 
 “We plan to invest $20 billion in this sector by 2020 bringing 1.5 crore EVs on the road by that time,” said Ola co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal. 
 
 Gadkari said EVs are poised to be the future mode of transport. It will not only save foreign exchange spent on importing crude oil but also provide a means of employment for those like rickshaw-pullers. 
 
 “Following a recent visit to London I was impressed by the system operated by Transport of London (the agency which manages public transport). We plan to emulate the model in India by roping in the agency as a consultant,” said Gadkari.
 
 He said the government also plans to put in a policy to modernize bus stations across all towns. The state government will have to take an initiative to implement the policy. Fadnavis, in his speech, immediately announced that the Maharashtra government will be implementing the move to upgrade bus terminals in small towns across the state.
 
 Gadkari said recently an Indian company has tied up with   to make dual-fuel engines. He did not divulge the Indian firm’s name. “This will enable the use of cleaner fuels like LNG apart from petrol or diesel,” he said. 
 
 The minister said moves are under way to deepen the draft of Indian ports so that larger ships can arrive. “This will bring automobile scrap to India which can be used in making domestic vehicle spares. It can reduce the manufacturing cost of vehicles in India,” he said. 
 
 Sulajja Firodia of Kinetic Green said the company already makes 10,000 e-rickshaws and is planning to come up with high speed autos soon. With the tie up with Ola, it plans to scale it up to 12,000 rickshaws. 
 
 Goldstone Infratech, which has supplied to Ola, has also tied up with Himachal State Toursim Corpotation to ply on Manali-Rohtang route. 
 
