HYDERABAD: Jumping the signal has emerged as one of the most rampant traffic offences in the   region over the past three years.

 While the total number of violations have witnessed a year-on-year rise since 2015, experts say the 'intelligent' traffic signals that were installed across Cyberabad, as part of the Hyderabad Traffic Integrated Management System (HTRIMS) project, have done little to curb the menace of signal jumping.
 
 “In the automatic system, while a signal remains red for as long as 180 seconds at a go, the green light is displayed for just 30 seconds. This prompts many to ignore the stoppage traffic lights and jump the signal instead of waiting another three minutes for it to turn green. The traffic police should consider equal stoppage at these signals,“ said  , a resident of Kukatpally.
 
 According to road safety experts, the number of accidents is lower at roundabout junctions, in comparison with Yjunctions, T-junctions and four armed junctions.
 
 “A whopping 90 per cent of all accidents occur at junctions.However, studies have shown that roundabout junctions, which offer more visibility to those on the road and also help in streamlining and controlling traffic in a better manner are comparatively safer,“ said  , founder and chief trainer at Safedrive India, an NGO working in the area of road safety.
 
 “The Cyberabad traffic police, instead of closing down junctions and introducing a U-turn at the point, must consider setting up roundabout and mini roundabout junctions,“ he added. Case in point: A quick scan of the accidents that have occurred across junctions in   in 2015 shows that the least number of accidents have occurred at roundabout junctions. While in 2015, 1,025 people lost their lives in 3,464 accidents.At least 3,427 people were also injured across the state at Tjunctions.
 
 “The presence of traffic cops at junctions and stricter enforcement through hefty fines and penalties is the only way to reduce the number of accidents caused by signal jumping,“ said  , road safety expert and CEO of Indian Federation of Road Safety.
 
