COIMBATORE: A 48-year-old construction worker was on Tuesday arrested for murdering his 50-year-old neighbour, who allegedly had an affair with his wife, in a drunken brawl at   near   on the outskirts of the city on Monday early morning.

 R Krishnan, of Selvapuram Colony, beat N Ganeshan, of Kottuveerampalayam near   in Erode, to death after the latter allegedly continued relationship with his wife after several warnings to end the same.
 
 Ganeshan, police said, was engaged in car tinkering work at Somanur. He separated from his wife Shanthi 10 years ago and came to Somanur, where he rented a house and made acquaintance with Krishnan and his second wife, who lived near his house.
 
 According to the police, Krishnan’s first wife Rajeswari died of some sickness more than 14 years ago and in that marriage he had a son and a daughter. He married another woman a few years ago.
 
 Ganeshan, meanwhile, developed an extramarital affair with Krishnan’s wife. When Krishnan came to know about this a few months ago, he warned both his wife and Ganeshan to end the relationship. The pair, however, allegedly continued the affair.
 
 On Sunday night, Krishnan locked up his wife in a room and invited Ganeshan to his house for drinks. After consuming liquor, the duo fought with each other and Krishnan beat Ganeshan with wooden log. Ganeshan suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot.
 
 An inebriated Krishnan then slept near the body. He awoke around 6am on Monday and found Ganeshan dead. The locals came to know about the incident before he could get rid of the body and immediately alerted the Karumathampatti police inspector S A Sekaran, who along with his team rushed to the spot. Krishnan, meanwhile, managed to flee.
 
 The police sent the body to the Coimbatore   (CMCH) for postmortem.
 
 The police registered a case against Krishnan under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Tuesday. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison.
 
