NEW DELHI: The government on Friday announced a  , used largely for   and  , after it found 
  of these firms over the last few months during   and threatened to invoke provisions of the new law against benami property against the entities and their directors.

 The Centre announced the setting up of a task force, co-chaired by secretaries in the revenue department and corporate affairs ministry, to weed out the shell companies.
 
 A small sample analysis has revealed deposit of Rs 1,238 crore cash into these entities during November-December. Separately, an official statement said that 559 beneficiaries had allegedly laundered Rs 3,900 crore with the help of 59 professionals.
 
 “A database of such companies and their directors would be built by pulling in information from various agencies,” the Centre said.
 
 In order to create a credible deterrence a ‘whole of government approach’ will be adopted through coordinated efforts and by leveraging technology.
 
 It has also been decided that appropriate red flag indicators would be used for identifying shell companies, and The database will also capture Aadhaar number of individual directors in the companies,” an official release said.
 
 The   (SFIO) has also filed criminal prosecution for cheating the exchequer after investigation by it showed that entry operators, who accept cash and route it through several companies to avoid detection, were involved in running a group of 49 shell companies.
 
 Typically, shell companies have nominal equity base with low turnover and assets but have high reserves and surplus as they issue shares at a premium, invest in unlisted companies, do not earn dividend, the shares are closely held apart from nominal expenses.
 
 While the problem has afflicted the economy for long, several agencies, ranging from the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team on black money to the income tax department, the Enforcement Directorate,   and the Institute of   of India (ICAI) have been roped.
 
 “Income tax department has reopened completed assessment in these cases and ED has initiated action under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. ICAI has also initiated disciplinary proceedings against its members. Winding up process has been initiated in respect of 49 shell companies,” the statement said.
 
 Official data showed that there are around 15 lakh registered companies but only 6 lakh file their annual returns, leading to suspicion that a large number may be involved in financial irregularities.
 
