KOCHI: The   issuing committee visited the railway property in the   of   on Monday following the application of the Southern Railway seeking permission to cut down 182 trees on the zone.

 The team included assistant conservator of forests K J Martin Lowel, committee member Jacob Lazar and other forest officials. They found that there were a few rain trees which play a role in the ecosystem of the area. 
 
 “The railways has old three to four railways tracks on which several trees have grown. The railways want to develop the station for operations,” said Lowel.
 
 He said that the tracks would need a complete re-haul as they were almost under mud. The committee later met Kochi corporation mayor Soumini Jain, who is the committee chairman, and decided to ask the railways to submit a revised proposal with a sketch of the actual trees that need to be cut.
 
 “There are many trees that can be trimmed. It needn’t be cut down. So we have sought a detailed report of the actual number of trees that need to be cut down,” said the ACF, who is the secretary of the committee.
 
 The committee members said that the railways had earlier planned to make it into a heritage station. “One doesn’t even know the advantage of having a railways station there,” a member said.
 
 The railways had approached the committee a few weeks ago for getting clearance to develop the station, which is estimated to cost Rs 500 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, environmentalists also reached the spot to show their objection against the move of the railways.
 
 “The bird sanctuary is the oxygen cylinder for the highly air-polluted city. This land was initially suggested as a spot for planting trees as part of afforestation to compensate the tree loss due to construction of Kochi Metro,” said C M Joy, president, Kerala nature protection forum.
 
 He said that nesting of migratory birds would be affected if trees are cut from the core zone of the sanctuary. 
 
 “The Mangalavanam ecosystem is slowly becoming stabilized now after it was disturbed following construction of CMFRI and Kerala high court. Now, again a disturbance to this pristine forest will be a great loss to many of the species,” he added.
 
