JAIPUR: The life of 46-year old   is soaked with blood and conceit. Arrested on Monday morning, Rafiq admitted killing three persons, becoming a lawyer, and marrying each time he killed somebody.

 On Monday morning, Rafiq was detained by Jhotwara police as his movements were found `highly suspicious'. He called himself Arjun Singh but frequently used chaste Urdu words. When senior cops interrogated him, he broke down and admitted that he was no Arjun Singh but   from Bundi and had spent half of his life evading Rajasthan police.The story he later told stunned even cops.
 
 “In 1990, I killed a student of my college whose name was Amit. I got bail, but then I thrashed a multiple persons and was booked under SCST Atrocities Act. Before they could catch me, I eloped with a girl of my college,“ Rafiq told cops.
 
 “I am a smart man and a lawyer. It's the lacunas in the system which is responsible,“ Rafiq said in the press meet.
 
 While hiding in Agra, Ra fiq forged papers and assumed the name of one Aman Ali. He enrolled in a law college, cleared his   with 70% marks. Somewhere in 2005 while still in Agra, he married to one Raziya and began preparing for IAS. When her wife got suspicious of his behaviour, he divorced Raziya, and married another woman called Sapna.
 
 While working as shared owner of a marble retailer shop in Agra, he killed his business partner Ishtiyak Khan, looted his money and packed off to Jaipur.
 
 “In Jaipur, he again forged documents and assumed the name of one Arjun Singh. He rented a room in Ghat Gate and got married to his landlord's elder sister. He fled to Lucknow with her,“said Deputy Commissioner of police (West) Ashok Gupta.
 
 In December 2016, Rafiq slit the throat of his motherin-law in Lucknow and disposed of her body in a river. Her wife filed a case against him following which he went to hide in Aligarh, Mathura, and Jaipur. He also planned to kill his wife. “He had come to sell illegal weapons in Jaipur when he was nabbed. He is wanted in over nine cases,“ Gupta said.
 
