Chennai: A separate master plan has been proposed for the planned development of the Chennai Metropolitan Area's extended areas, which will include the entire   and   districts besides   taluk in   district. Setting up massive public parks, increasing the green cover and enhancing recreational activities will garner much of the focus of the proposal, sources privy to the project told TOI.

 The extended areas would cover about 7,600 sq km spread across three districts. “One of the special aspects of the master plan is its attention to recreational facilities by creating big public parks in an area of 40 acres like those found in other metropolitan cities,“ the official told TOI.The proposal has been submitted to the government, sources added. The second master plan of the   (CMDA), which now covers an area of 1,189 sq km, comprises the city and its suburbs in neighbouring districts and also addresses the issue of open space and recreational use zone. It states that all public and semi-public recreational uses and open spaces, parks and play grounds, zoological and botanical gardens, nurseries, waterfront developments, museums and memorials would be permitted.
 
 The master plan for the ex tended areas would identify industrial corridors, infrastructure-related amenities and development regulations.
 
 The directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) has now handed over the master plans of towns in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts to the CMDA. The views of the local bodies in the two districts would be called for before the notification of extending the limits of the Chennai Metropolitan Area, sources added.
 
 Real estate experts say the new Chennai should aim for a quantum leap transformation from existing systems to tech nology-driven platforms for efficient and cost-effective services. “Digital transformation engagement with some of the tech platforms such as GIS applications, remote sensing utility mapping services, computeraided design and drafting technologies, e-governance platform, etc will help to achieve in planning a better city for tomorrow,“ said A Shankar, national director, Strategic Consulting, JLL. While preparing a master plan for the newer areas, he said it was important to have an integrated approach of having connectivity with the existing city and existing master plan.
 
