Nagpur: Lakadganj police on Saturday got a major setback in the 110 tolas of gold heist case when a city court not only refused to extend the custody of four accused arrested but granted bail to one of them also, leading police the team completely befuddled.  The burglars decamped with the booty from the residence of Madhu Devadiya near Maskasath at Itwari on February 19. A police team, led by API Sagar Nikam under senior PI SB Mane, had recovered 56 out 110 tolas of gold and arrested four accused on March 19. The team also recovered two two-wheelers, cash Rs26,000 and some other materials cumulatively worth around Rs17.12 lakh. The arrested accused were identified as Devidiya’s driver Sukhram Bansod, her former computer operator Rohit Bokde, Nikunj Shangarwar (19) and Bablu Merchettiwar alias Bablesh (23). The fifth accused, a minor, arrested on Saturday from Lalgunj. Nikunj Shangarwar was released on bail on Saturday. The court had granted a seven-day custody of the four accused. It is learnt that police had furnished detailed progress report before the court, seeking extension of their custody but were denied. The abrupt termination of police remand and bail grant to Shangarwar have left the them with no scope for further interrogation to recover the rest of the booty and also to ascertain whether the gang was behind other burglaries elsewhere in the city also. Police had sought another four days of remand to complete the probe.  Zonal DCP Sambhaji Kadam, accompanied by ACP Reena Janbandhu, earlier in the day said the complaint was of burglary of valuables around Rs5,000 only but later it turned out to be a bigger one for which an intense probe was kicked off after recording a supplementary statement of Madhu who was with her daughter in Pune when the burglary took place. “The booty was distributed among the burglars evenly,” he said and added that Marchettiwar, one of the accused, had an offence of robbery against him. According to police, 66-year-old Madhu, due to rumour of getting her gold seized post-demonitazation, had withdrawn them from the vault of a bank. She was, however, left shattered after the valuables, her ancestral property, were stolen from her Itwari residence.  It was more heart-wrenching for her when she knew that the accused were none other than her family’s trusted driver and a former employee. In fact, police said, her driver 52-year-old Sukhram Bansod, nabbed for his involvement with four others including family’s former computer operator 25-year-old Rohit Bokde, knew about the substantial gold being brought to home from the vault as he was the one to drive Madhu to-and-fro from the bank. Bansod relayed the information to Bokde, who planned the heist roping in his friends, Nikunj Shangarwar (19), Bablu Merchettiwar alias Bablesh (23) and another minor aged about 17 years from Lalgunj. Bansod had even leaked the information that Madhu would leave for Pune to be with her daughter Sweety Batra. After stray dogs foiled their plans on an earlier occasion, the gang broke into the house in the wee hours of February 19 this year, police said. “The five, after the heist, had a gala time, including a picnic-cum-pilgrimage to Mahadeo yatra in Pachmarhi,” police said, adding that Bokde, who had turned a bouncer in a gym after leaving job as a computer operator at Jain dharmashala owned by the Devadiyas, later even spent more than Rs10,000 on tattooing his hands.  Police said Bokde was even sheltered by the Devadiyas at their dharamshala with his wife, who later died during childbirth. Bokde, having a fascination of leading a luxurious life, had purchased a two-wheeler too which is now seized. He was planning to purchase a car also when police got wind of his extravagant lifestyle and sudden spending spree which led to his detention.  HOW WERE THEY CAUGHT  Lakadganj police initially questioned Rohit Bokde and driver Sukhram Bansod but they did not spilt the beans. Bokde would remain present at the police station whenever asked to appear. He would often meet the Devadiyas too at the police station. It was his flashy lifestyle and spending spree that led to the cracking of the case. Under sustained interrogation, he spilt the beans disclosing the names of all his accomplices. 