AURANGABAD: The proposed renovation of five historic city gates has come under criticism as the local civic body has failed to add a clause in the tender that architects or contractors who have expertise in preservation and conversation of heritage monuments will only be awarded work. 

 Fearing that contractors roped in for the work could cause irrevocable damage to historic gates, heritage experts and activists have sought the addition of the special clause and re-floating of tenders. 
 
 Jafar Gate, Barapulla Gate,   , Kala Gate and Paithan Gate are likely to get covered under the renovation exercise, which is has a financial outlay of over Rs 47 lakh.
 
 Ajay Kulkarni, convener, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Aurangabad chapter, said that renovation work of five gates should be awarded only to pre-qualified and experienced individuals.
 
 "The conservation and restoration of historic structures is a scientific process that needs certain pre-qualification and experience. Elements lacking these prerequisites could spell doom for structures," he said. 
 
 The proposed works include strengthening of gates and their colouring along with cleaning of nearby areas. An official document clearly reveals that   ( ) has not mentioned a clause in the concerned tender that qualified and experienced architects or contractors would only get work. 
 
 Advocate  , who is one of the active members of the recently formed action committee for saving heritage of Aurangabad, said, "The manner in which local civic body is planning to carry out renovation of the five gates would do more harm than good."
 
 "It is highly objectionable that proposed renovation of five city gates has completely ignored the standard operating procedure. The civic body should mend its ways. The city of Aurangabad has already received irrevocable loss in terms of damage to some of the heritage structures and cannot afford any further harm to the city's heritage," she said. 
 
 While Aurangabad has been historically referred to as the city of 52 gates, some of these structures have already become extinct. 
 
 When contacted,  , chief of the heritage conservation committee of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, said, "He recently held a meeting and passed the resolve for issuing work to expert agency only."
 
 "Documents related to tender might not carry a special clause, but the heritage panel has decided to ensure appointment of an expert agency only. We will ensure that a scientific process is followed and five gates benefit from it to the maximum," he said. 
 
 "Out of the total proposed allocation, Naubat Darwaza is slated to receive a maximum share of around Rs 17.22 lakh followed by   (9.77 lakh), Paithan Gate (8.97 lakh), Barapulla Gate (6.77 lakh) and Jafar Gate (4.42 lakh)," it was said. 
 
