NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) to strictly enforce its latest rule prohibiting schools affiliated to it from commercial activity, including   or   on the campus.

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Anu Malhotra disposed of a PIL raising the issue after taking note of a recent circular brought out by CBSE asking schools not to indulge in commercial activity within campus. “We are disposing of the writ petition with direction to the CBSE to ensure that its circular is strictly implemented by the institutions,” the bench said after the board apprised it of the steps taken by it.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL filed by social worker Sunil Pokhriyal seeking direction to restrain the schools from using their buildings to run commercial activities such as selling books and uniforms. Despite opposition from CBSE, the court had entertained the PIL saying the issue highlighted “is in public interest, especially for school-going children and their parents.”
 
 On April 19, the board had issued a circular following complaints from parents and stakeholders that schools are indulging in commercial activities by way of selling books and uniforms from school premises or through selected vendors. The petition, filed on March 3, had urged the court to enforce CBSE’s first circular on the issue — brought out on February 21, 2011 — which warned schools across India not to use their premises for any commercial activity like   of books, uniforms or stationery on their campuses.
 
 The petitioner submitted that the board has given parents a free hand to purchase these items from the open market at a competitive price, but the public schools force them to purchase it from shops inside schools. It alleged that these shops are being run by people known to the school management and the institutions make “willful gain” from these businesses. “A pair of shoes, which is available for around Rs 500 in the market, costs Rs 1,200-1,500 at a school’s store,” the plea added.
 
 
