Coimbatore: It was walk down the memory lane for Tamil cinema lyricist and actor Pa Vijay at the alumni meet of the TA Ramalingam Chettiyar Higher Secondary School on Azhagesan Road in the city on Sunday. 

 Eighty-five students from the Class of 1993 met at the school premises for the alumni meet and felicitated their teachers. The alumni students of 1993 batch donated Rs 1.5 lakh to renovate the toilets on the school premises and they are also providing drinking water facilities to the students. Some of the students came to the school campus along with their family members and introduced their family with their classmates. They also took photographs along with their classmates and teachers.
 
 V Premavathi, who was taking Tamil subject for class VIII students at the school in 1968, recalled how students named her as ‘Tamil Akka’. When she went to take her first class in in 1968 for class VIII, one of the students, GR Srinivasan, raised a question that the students previously called their Tamil teacher as ‘Tamil Anna’. So, whether they could call her as ‘Tamil Akka’.
 
 “The name suited for me. All the teachers and students called me as Tamil Akka since then. Our alumni students often met me and call me even now as Tamil Akka. The school has given a name for me and it will be there always,” said Premavathi. 
 
 R Hariharamoorthy, an alumnus, said Tamil Akka was very strict but she was very fond with students. “We won’t forget our memories in the school campus. It will always remain in our heart,” said Hariharamoorthy.
 
 Pa Vijay said his school played a major role in shaping him as a poet. “I was interested in writing poem in school days. This school only gave identity for me,” said Pa Vijay.
 
 One of the teachers S Dhanalakshmi who was taking biology subject for Plus Two students said that one student named Jaishankar was a brilliant student in the 1993 batch. “We (teachers) motivated him to score good marks in the public examination. He got the first rank in plus two examinations in the school level and now working as a software engineer in the US. It’s a proud moment for us,” said Dhanalakshmi.
 
 
