BENGALURU: Thousands of students from engineering colleges affiliated to   ( ), who appeared for their VII semester exams in December 2016, have still not got their full results. Nearly two weeks ago, the university announced the results for the odd semester exams, but in many instances, individual subject marks are missing. 

 What’s worrying these students even more is that the university has already called for re-totalling and revaluation of papers, despite many not receiving all subject marks. “One of the subjects on my markscard has no marks mentioned against it,” said a student from a city-based engineering college. “The column against that particular subject reads, ‘Result withheld’, and the final result section says, ‘To be announced’.” 
 
 Another student, requesting anonymity, added, “Many of us have paid for revaluation of the papers, even though we haven’t received the marks of one or two subjects. This is the first time we are facing such a problem with VTU which is known for its timely announcement of results.”
 
 The varsity’s digital evaluation system, which was put in place in 2012, has ensured the results are always out on time, so much so that it prompted many universities to sign MoUs with VTU to leverage this particular system. However, this year, a major glitch detected in the system resulted in over four lakh students not receiving their results on time. 
 
 Typically, results are announced after a month of completion of all papers. However, this time, not only were the results delayed by nearly four months, now many students are waiting for individual subject marks. To add to it, the next semester exams are fast approaching. As per the timetable put up on the university website, exams are to begin in June. 
 
 “Students have not even received all the marks of VII semester exams and now they’ll soon be writing the VIII semester exams. The biggest problem is for students like my daughter who are awaiting their VII semester results to complete application process for admissions to universities abroad,” said   (name changed), a parent. 
 
 Further, the university is yet to announce the results for architecture students, who too wrote their exams along with the engineering students. Said Manik Raj (name changed), a student of fourth year, B.Arch: “The varsity is not following its own dates and schedules. They assured us that the results would be announced on May 23 but students of semesters I to VIII are still waiting for their results.” 
 
 While students are wondering if the varsity has misplaced the internal marks list because of which some subject results have been withheld, vice chancellor Karisiddappa has assured them that they can take up the issue with the registrar (evaluation). “Results for all regions of engineering programmes have been announced. We will take up cases of students who are having problems with the same,” he said. 
 
 
