PUNE: The state common entrance test ( ) for admission to engineering colleges would be at par with the national competitive examinations from 2018-19 academic year. 

 The state government has made changes in the syllabus of the science stream in accordance with the entrance examinations. The difficulty level, nature of questions and pattern of the question paper for MH-CET would match   and National Eligibility Entrance Test. The move will ensure that students follow one syllabus and attempt all three tests with a single preparation.
 
 Subhash Mahajan, director Maharashtra technical education, said, “Last year, there was tremendous chaos with   introduced for all medical admissions. However, NEET is largely based on   syllabus and state board students were exempted from it. The syllabus is vast and students from the state board found it difficult to cope with it in such a short span. So the department will make the changes for next year’s exam.”
 
 This year, MH-CET is scheduled on May 11 and the paper pattern will be based on the old syllabus. Since 2014-15, the admission to engineering colleges has been through CET. The following year, the admissions were based on JEE scores. Last year, it was decided by the state government to conduct admissions again based on MH-CET.
 
 Mahajan said, “Students sit for multiple exams including state and national tests and often study different syllabi. To make MH-CET at par with national exams and save the efforts of students, the state government decided to have the same syllabus. Students do not have to study separately for JEE or NEET.”
 
 He said more students would attempt the national test along with the state test. The state government has also proposed to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education which designs the syllabi for standards XI and XII, to make the changes so that the entrance test in 2018-19 would have the exam pattern similar to JEE and is based on the std XI and XII syllabi.
 
