The highest voting per centages in the 2017 BMC polls have been registered in the suburbs.These include a turnout of 61% and more, and also the 5561% range. In the former category are 36 electoral wards, and in the latter 106 wards.Most of these 106 are in the western and eastern suburbs, but 21 are in  , which includes Byculla, Parel, Dadar, Lalbaug and Mahim. In the 40-55% range are 84 wards, spread all over the city. There's only one ward that polled below 40%: ward 227 in Colaba (see story inset). The overall turnout for the city has been 55.53%.

 Milind Mhaske, project director with the NGO Praja, said extensive canvassing was done by political parties in the suburbs compared to the island city. “The suburbs have larger pockets of middle class populations and people were looking for change. People realised that to get good corporators, it is important to do one's duty of exercising one's franchise.“
 
 Activist D Kosambe from the Borivli-Dahisar Jagruk Nagrik Manch said one of the reasons for the sharp increase in turnout in the suburbs could be resentment against the prevailing order. “The suburbs are always seen to be given a step-motherly treatment compared to the island city, which is known to get priority. Many people in my area complain of poor infrastructure, mainly bad roads.
 
 Activists said a large number of Gujarati voters from parts of Borivli, Malad and Kandivli came out in large numbers in support of the BJP. “The Gujarati voter base came out in support of the BJP, considering that it decided to fight the polls alone. Also, the political tussle between the Sena and the BJP got people interested in the election,“ said civic activist Willie Shirsat, who lives in Borivli.
 
 Many feel a population shift from the island city to the suburbs boosted turnout. “Social media campaigns and a rigorous awareness drive on the street asking people to go out and vote enthused many,“ said Dahisar resident  , a member of the New Link Road Residents Forum (NLRRF). “Still, I feel the turnout could have been higher had names not gone missing from the rolls. Many people had to return from the polling booths without casting their ballots.“
 
 Malad resident Dolphy D'Souza, who is an executive member of the Bombay Catholic Sabha, said his area saw a series of programmes in the poll run-up, including `meet your candidate' sessions. “In fact we are disappointed with the voting percentage. We were expecting a higher number, keeping in mind the awareness drives we undertook. We made it very clear that if one wants good representatives, one needs to come out and vote,“ said D'Souza.
 
