LUCKNOW: A   and   are the reasons behind   at most places over the past few days. Water does not recede even after five-six hours of rains. Though   has spent about Rs 6.2 crore on cleaning of drains this year, the result has been knee-deep logging everywhere.

 Barring a few localities were drains were laid under JNNURM, the city’s drainage system is mostly outdated, causing logging in low-lying areas and sludge overflow on most roads. TOI takes a look at major reasons that have added to the   menace.
 
 Perennially choked small drains: There is a network of about 1,800km of smaller drains around houses. These should be cleaned daily but LMC rarely looks at them. Layers of silt deposit inside drains. If at all workers clean them, they put the silt on the sides to dry and never return to remove it. While LMC says it doesn’t have enough workers, locals complain that even when workers come, they refuse to clean drains. 
 
 Encroachment on drains: A majority of houses have covered drains to make ramps. This prevents rainwater from flowing inside drains, causing logging on roads. This is rampant in commercial areas of Narhi, Lalbagh and Sadar and residential colonies in Mahanagar, Indiranagar and Janakipuram. 
 
 Temporary filling of road: Roads cut for drainage or telecom lines are not restored after work is done. The contractor temporarily fills the earth. These dug-up patches form large pools in rains as seen in Mahanagar and Alambagh.
 
 Poor compliance of cleanliness: There are three kinds of drains—small drains in front of houses, 750 deep drains along colonies and about 29 big ones which fall into Gomti. LMC’s cleanliness roster mandates that smaller drains be cleaned every day while deep be cleaned every week. Big drains require mechanical cleaning once a year. But neither LMC’s sanitary staff nor the engineering department follow it. This year orders were given to clean all drains between April 1 and May 31, but most drains were left out. 
 
 Low lying areas and wrong slopes: There are many places which were earlier water bodies or green belts and located at lower level. As these became residential, there was no space for rainwater to exit. This can be seen in Indiranagar, Rajajipuram, Gomtinagar Extension and Aliganj. Drains are faulty in Gomtinagar’s second phase too.
 
 No separate exits for sludge and sewage: Lucknow’s 80% houses have drains connected to sewer lines. Being an old city, Lucknow earlier didn’t have a proper sewerage system till JNNURM provided for it. As a result, people connected drains with sewerage system causing all the sludge to flow in sewer lines. 
 
 
