RANCHI: Carrying   saying "Not in My Name", members of   and   participated in a kilometer-long march to   to protest against rising   and mob violence. 

 The 'Sadbhavna Insaf march', which began at the Zilla School grounds and ended at Raj Bhawan, culminated with a public meeting. Many of the 2,000-odd protesters wore white half-sleeved vests plastered with the slogan 'Not In My Name'. 
 
 The immediate trigger for the protest march by around men and women was the lynching of a man at Ramgarh, some 40km away from Ranchi, on the suspicion that he was carrying beef in his vehicle on June 29. Those who participated included Congress leaders, members of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Jharkhand Vikas Morcha, 84-year-old Padma Shri awardee Simon Oraon, former chairperson of state commission for women Mahua Manjhi, and others.
 
 Manjhi said she had joined the protest in her individual capacity to register her protest against attempts to disturb peace and amity. Even Oraon, who despite his ill health and advancing years, turned up in front of Raj Bhavan to boost the morale of the protesters, said, "What is happening is not good for the society and the state."
 
 Abha Sinha, president of Jharkhand Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee, said they will soon organise an all-women rally in Ranchi on similar lines to register their protest against the killings of innocent people by so called gau rakshaks. "We cannot remain mute spectators any more," she said. 
 
 Later, in a memorandum submitted to Governor Droupadi Murmu, the Sajha Manch, an umbrella organisation formed to lead the anti-lynching protests, pointed out that self-styled vigilante groups have been disturbing the peace and amity in the state under the garb of cow protection and child kidnappings. 
 
 "What we are witnessing, besides loss of innocent human lives, is a breakdown of the law and order system, with fringe elements finding a free playing ground for inciting violence, religious polarisation and dividing the peace-loving population," the memorandum stressed.
 
 The memorandum demanded constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe all cases of lynching in a time bound manner, and punishment of all found guilty, compensation to the next of kin of victims of mob violence and identification of all vigilante groups and punishment as per the law.
 
 
