JAIPUR/NEW DELHI:   minister   on Friday promised that work will start this year on a   between Jaipur and Delhi that will reduce travel time between the outskirts of Gurgaon and the outer periphery of the Pink City to 90 minutes. Gadkari made this announcement at a public function in Dausa, Rajasthan.

 The distance between Delhi and Jaipur is 260 km. The proposed super   , between the outskirts of Gurgaon and Jaipur, will cover 200 km. It will be impossible to cover this distance in 90 minutes sticking to the noti fied speed limit, which is 100 kmph for expressways in India (for highways it's 90). Gadkari said the government will notify different speed limits for such super expressways. pressways.
 
 At present, commuting between Delhi and Jaipur takes around 5-6 hours.
 
 Urging Rajasthan chief minister   to start the process of land acquisition for the project, Gadkari said: “The Haryana government has cleared the alignment. I request Rajeji to complete land acquisition and give approval for that alignment so that we can start the work this year.“
 
 Gadkari told TOI in Delhi that the present speed limit was fixed at 100 kmph as the country has very few expressways.“We will revise the maximum speed limit. The proposed expressway will take off from the outskirts of Gurgaon and join Jaipur Ring Road (on the outer periphery of the city). We expect this total stretch to be around 200 km.Since it will be access controlled, one can maintain high speed all along the expressway ,“ he said.   offi cials said the Delhi-Jaipur expressway can be developed with the design speed of 160-165 kmph, which is being followed for the proposed Mumbai-Vadodara expressway .
 
 This is not the first time when Gadkari has talked of increasing speed limit on expressways. Addressing industry leaders in Gurgaon in March last year, he had said the Centre would enhance the present speed limit and people would be able to drive at 130-140 kmph on expressways.
 
 The ambitious Delhi-Jaipur expressway project was first conceived during UPAII, but it made no headway .The NDA government has revived the project. 
 
