NEW DELHI: Dozens of unprotected monuments at Mehrauli Archaelogical Park in south Delhi are fading away.

 Recent   by the   have helped   to dig out newer facts about the Lodhi and   to which these building belong. A case in point is the ongoing conservation project on two tombs and the ruins of a horse stable inside the park where conservationists have discovered that the actual height of the monuments was much more than what’s visible now—there are hidden chambers. 
 
 However, unlike the ASI protected monuments like Rajon ki Baoli and Jamal Kamali, which have enough archival documents and photos, other non-ASI monuments don’t have enough archival details. “These monuments have been documented through heritage listings but very little information is available on them, like their actual height and who the graves belong to,” said an official. 
 
 An unknown tomb, another with a jharokha and a horse stable are adjacent to a nullah that runs through the park. “During the rains, a lot of malba used to collect at the foot of the two tombs, which just kept collecting over the years. Eventually, we realised while clearing the surrounding area that the actual height was much more,” said an Intach Delhi chapter official. Intach has collaborated with the Delhi government’s archaeology department to conserve these three buildings. 
 
 At least four feet more of the tombs have been found. “Once we started clearing the debris, we found hidden chambers and even a few graves for the first time. Work is still on at the two tombs and we might find more graves, chambers or inscriptions,” the official said, adding, “In one tomb, we found a plinth we never knew existed.”
 
 Many experts earlier disputed that the horse stable indeed housed horses as it was not big enough. Digging unearthed nearly six feet more of the structure. “This showed that the height of the stables was much more than previously thought. It remains to be seen what more new things are discovered during the conservation exercise,” said another official. 
 
 Work has been on for three months, with another three months to go. Nineteen buildings have been identified for conservation as part of this collaboration.
 
 
