AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: Textile traders across Ahmedabad went on an indefinite strike on Monday, to protest against   (GST) imposed on the cloth. Some 50,000 traders from various cloth markets in the city observed a total shutdown. 

 To discuss the industry’s issues with the state government, representatives of the textile markets from Surat as well as Ahmedabad, met deputy chief minister  . Well-placed sources from the state government said that the traders have been assured that their issues will be represented during the next  .
 
  Confirming this, Nitin Patel said, “We had a detailed discussion with the textile traders on issues they face under GST. Most of them are concerned about administrative aspects and have thus requested for an extension in GST implementation. We have assured them to represent their issues before the Union finance minister, Arun Jaitley as well as the GST council. As the GST meeting is scheduled after 20 days, I will request him to prepone it if possible.” Textile traders have sought an extension of 18 months till January 2019 for the implementation of GST on textiles as the industry is largely an unorganized one. Sharing further details, Gaurang Bhagat, president, Maskati Cloth Merchants Association, Ahmedabad, said, “There hasn’t been any tax on cloth for the past 60 years and the industry needs time to adapt to the new tax regime. We have requested the government to defer the implementation of GST on textiles and also proposed to them to impose tax on yarn but not on cloth.”
 
 The state government requested the industry and traders to end the strike as it affects the employment of workers. “We will not take any decision overnight and hold a meeting with most traders on Tuesday and then decide whether to continue with the strike. We had also planned a protest rally on Wednesday, however, we will take the consent of the fellow traders and then take a decision,” said Naresh Sharma, vice-president, Textile Processing Units Association.
 
