NEW DELHI: By the end of 2019, it will be possible to   the  ,   when travelling between Satpula and Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. Of course, one will either have to be on a bicycle or on foot to enjoy this direct access. Delhi Government’s PWD is expected to start work on an integrated cycle track network by the end of this year that will allow one to cycle without any conflict with motorised traffic from Press Enclave Road to Mayur Vihar in one direction and towards Connaught Place in another.

 The project has been designed by former students of the School of Planning and Architecture who have been appointed consultants. UTTIPEC has already given clearance for it and, at present, it is with the municipal corporation for its comments. Gaurav Jangid, who is a member of the SPA team, said that the attempt was to promote cycling in the city, not just for daily commute but also to encourage tourism. There are around 12 important historical sites in a periphery of 1 km along the track.
 
 “So far, the cycling sharing schemes have not worked because there was no dedicated tracks. Under Masterplan 2021, there is a provision to create an eco-mobility corridor along the route. This will be along the Barapulla drain from Satpula to JLN. From there, one arm of the track will veer towards Sarai Kale Khan which will then link to Barapulla Phase-III which has already been planned with  . On the other side, it will link to India Gate and CP,” Jangid said.
 
 Under the first phase, work on which should start by the year end, PWD will build a corridor from Satpula to JLN. This will have five cycle stations, two of which will be close to Metro stations in Panchshila Park and Lajpat Nagar respectively.
 
 Stretches where the drain is covered, the track will be on ground. Where it has been left uncovered, an elevated track will be created. Stations will be made of steel so they will be relatively cheaper. The first phase will be constructed for approximately Rs 50 crore,” he added. Work to prepare the detailed project report for the remaining phases is on.
 
 The study for the project found that the maximum number of cyclists are based in east Delhi and most travel towards south for work. CP and India Gate have among the highest footfalls for pedestrians. The project, therefore, will provide connectivity to all three areas.
 
 An official explained that the cycling tack would not just be linear but a network would be developed around it. “For instance, there will be a proper network around Chirag Dilli connecting the main track with the Chirag Dilli village and other colonies around it. This will allow people to travel longer distances as they will be able to safely access the main track,” he said.
 
 
