NOIDA: Residents of the city can now look forward to subimmiting their electricity meter reading online or through sms and in turn, do not have to rely on lineman or power department officials to generate their meter readings. The process which is called 'trust billing' was announced by  , chairman   ( ) to be implemented with immediate effect across UP including Noida and Ghaziabad.

 Trust billing provides that consumers (with online billing facility) across Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut and all cities of UP, can now opt for submission of their meter reading to the licensee discom through e-mail and SMS at the license’s web portal or at the designated office of the licensee, or through other channel and the payment of the bill is done according to the billing cycle prescribed by the licensee discom.
 
 The move is seen as one which encourages empowering the consumer while promoting transparency at the same time.
 Further, if a consumer submits a lower reading than what exists in the meter with the intent to reduce the amount of electricity bill, then such suppression of meter reading will amount to unauthorized use of electricity according to UPERC. 
 According to Mukul Singhal superentending engineer PVVNL while the Noida power department is all set to comply implementation of the directive, he feels checking it's results would be a challenge. "Just like any city of UP, Noida too will comply with the directive but to check errant consumers who'll report understated readings or suppress actual readings, we'll resort to surprise checks," Singhal told TOI who adds that if found guilty of fudging wrong meter readings legal action will be taken against that consumer/s followed by disconnection. 
 
 Verma had issued a seventh Amendment dated May 27, 2016 to the Electricity Supply Code, 2005 to introduce the concept of Trust Billing in the  . The option of Trust Billing once given can be changed only after six months or more. The consumers opting for this facility will get their e-mail address/mobile no. registered with the licensee on the designated website or through SMS on the specified number. While urban consumers can submit their meter reading every month, rural consumers can submit their readings bimonthly. The onus of submitting correct meter reading would lie on the consumers. 
 
 According to Sanjay Srivastava, secretary UPERC the move comes after UPERC learnt that trust billing has not been implemented by the discoms in the state. "Taking consideration of this, the Commission has directed all the State Discoms to immediately implement Trust Billing in their area of supply and inform the Commission," said Srivastava.
 
