HYDERABAD: Municipal administration secretary Naveen Mittal had set a 10 day-deadline to repair roads in the city on July 19. But even after a week of the deadline having passed, roads in the city remain in a dismal state, endangering the lives and long-term health of commuters. 

 While several main roads are yet to be repaired,   on bylanes seems to be a far cry. The worst-affected areas in the city include Khairtabad, Balanagar, Sanathnagar, Balkampet, Nampally, Chandanagar, Panjagutta and Dabeerpura in Old city. 
 
 Commuters blame authorities for risking their health and say complaints made time and again have gone unheard. "I have been suffering from a backache for over two years. Doctors blame bad roads and long distance commuting for my problem," said a local  , spotted at Nampally.
 
 A similar grievance was aired by a woman spotted at Balanagar who wondered why road work is taken up during the monsoons and not before. "I have been facing severe pain in my shoulder and neck. Not just do I have to deal with health issues, but also have to shell out extra money to repair my car damaged by travel on potholes," said a woman commuter, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Contractors not responding to tenders is one of the main reasons for the delay in taking up restoration work, according to officials of the   Municipal Corporation (GHMC). "We have not received tenders for more than 35 roads,   works. We expect to complete road restoration by August 5," said Ziauddin, chief engineer (maintenance, housing & admin), GHMC. 
 
 A bank holiday has also delayed road restoration works according to officials. "Administrative sanction was taken immediately after the deadline was announced. Tenders were called with one day notice. But with July 22 being a bank holiday, the process of tenders got delayed," said Ziauddin.
 
 Warning against frequent commute on bad roads, city doctors say there is an adverse impact on the health of those travelling both in cars as well as bikes. "Travelling long distances on such roads frequently damages the neck, survival spine, lumber spine and intervertebral disc," said Dr   orthopaedic surgeon, Yashoda Hospital.
 
 k"People should avoid such roads, especially senior citizens. Those who commute long distances should do core strengthening exercises which will help with their spine," said Praveen Rao.
 
 
