LUDHIANA: Are performance enhancing drugs being administered to canines ahead of dog races at the Qila Raipur village games near Ludhiana? Popularly known as  , the games kicked off on Friday with the organisers playing it safe.

 Although there was no testing of the animals and no one was caught administering drugs, there was a strong apprehension among the organisers who made frequent announcements warning people to keep their animals clean.They even had made a team keeping an eye on dog owners to ensure there was no  .
 
 The rules are clear for the games this time. Anyone caught using performance boosters will be banned from the games immediately . They are following rules of the Greenwich greyhound racing which is popular in UK.
 
 The Qila Raipur games were known for bullock cart races but after they were banned by the Supreme Court, dogs and horses replaced bullocks.
 
 “Some 60 to 70 dogs take part in the races and 15 to 20 are from other countries like the United States and United Kingdom,“ said Balwinder Singh, secretary of  , which organises the games. “We are for clean races with zero substance abuse which is why we made the announcements,“ he said. One of the organisers said that during the event, owners were not allowed to take their dogs inside their vehicle as that might create suspicion.
 
 Many of the owners welcomed the move. “Most participants will not use boosters as they know the ramifications. My pet is like a family member to me so I would want that he wins an ethical race,“ said Surjeet Singh, owner of a greyhound.
 
 Experts say that frequent use of performance boosters affects the liver, kidneys and other organs of dogs, besides making them over-aggressive.
 
 “Though performance enhancers, mostly anabolic steroids, work in the short-term, the side-effects can be bad in the long run. After the urine sample in horses started showing doping, tests acted as deterrent and can be used here as well,“ says Dr Kirti Dua, professor of veterinary medicine at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.
 
