MADURAI/TRICHY: Villagers of Madurai, Trichy and several parts of southern and central   continued to defy the   and conducted Jallikattu, the traditional bull sport, keeping the police on their toes.

 Sunday began with a large protest in Palamedu which is about 14 km away from Madurai city , where thousands of people took out a procession, along with brightly decorated temple bulls in protest, demanding the right to conduct Jallikattu.
 
 When they neared the `vadivasal' (the gateway), some of the bulls were unleashed and bull tamers followed them, conducting the game briefly . It was brought under control when Madurai superintendent of police  , and police personnel arrived at the spot. The SP said, “Everything is under control and we are taking all steps to honour the Supreme Court's ruling."
 
 In several parts of Pudukkottai and Trichy , it was an action-packed `maattu pongal' (festival dedicated to cattle) on Sunday as youth locked horns with police for being prevented from unleashing bulls. On their part, the men in khaki tried their best to uphold the Supreme Court ban on jallikattu by even guarding houses which raised bulls.
 
 The sport being an integral part of `maattu pongal' when bulls are worshipped across villages and unleashed in the taming arena, incidents of lathicharge were reported from several places where emotionally charged youths insisted on conducting the traditional sport. Hundreds of villagers gathered at Ayyanarthidal in Pudukkottai district to witness jallikattu in the morning. Police, who sensed the secret planning, rushed to the spot before it took off resulting in an altercation with the irked villagers. As the villagers unleashed the bulls, police resorted to lathicharge to disburse the crowd.
 
 On Saturday , a large number of people including members of the film fraternity , like director Gowthaman, gathered in Avaniapuram in Madurai district and staged a protest demanding a right to conduct the game. The first game of the season is held in Avaniapuram every year, which is in the limits of Madurai city .
 
 While police blocked the `vadivasal', the gate of the area to the bull taming event, some bulls were unleashed and youngsters also tamed them in a dry tank bed where they had established a makeshift `vadivasal'.
 
 Tension prevailed, when police arrived in the spot and forcefully evacuated the protesting public. Meanwhile, 68 villagers, including some from Alanganallur, who attempted stage a road roko, demanding a ban on Peta were arrested by the police.
 
