KANPUR: For some reason, white ball cricket hasn't been India's strength since the strings of the World Cup-winning team unravelled soon after the triumph in 2011.Virat Kohli's form has been the only constant as MS Dhoni's finishing touch started lacking the same punch. Dhoni tried carrying out a transition with younger players at the expense of the heroes of 2011, but though India rallied to the World Cup semifinal in 2015, the team still did not seem complete.

 Now, as Virat Kohli's era as India's captain across formats is under way, the transition continues between veterans and often inconsistent youngsters. On Tuesday, two days ahead of the first T20I game against England, under a scorching sun at the Green Park stadium, there was Ashish Nehra ambling and easing into his stretching drills. Suresh Raina was going through the motions too. Meanwhile, the few fresh, young faces of Mandeep Singh, Rishabh Pant, Parvez Rasool and Yuzvendra Chahal exuded anxiety while KL Rahul, Amit Mishra and Manish Pandey went about trying to prove a point in the nets.
 
 It's obvious Team India is eagerly waiting to strike just the right balance between youth and experience. The stars from the ODI series -Kohli, Dhoni, Yuvraj Singh, Kedar Jadhav -gave themselves a day's break from a work out in the sun. With coach Anil Kumble looking on, Green Park turned into an audition centre in India's quest to find some stable faces. The grunt every time Rasool and Chahal pitched it short, or Pant patted the badge on the helmet with the bat after each miscued shot, spoke of the significance of this `optional' practice session. The jitters were obvious.
 
 This T20 team wears a different look than the one in the 50-over format, leaving the competition for places wide open. Hardik Pandya, the pace mainstay in the last two ODI series, finds a Nehra above him. “I don't think there will be any difference. Obviously, I have played with him and I am very comfortable with him. Individually, it doesn't make any difference when someone else comes in, when someone goes. It strengthens the bowling attack when anyone comes in,“ Pandya opined about the canny 37-year-old left-arm seamer.
 
 The Champions Trophy in England -the next major limited overs international tournament -is nearly five months away and it is likely to set the base for the next World Cup, slated to be played in the same country. Only a few have cemented their places in the shorter formats.
 
 Pandya too is aware of this, after having fallen to a rash shot in the last ODI in Kolkata, when he had caught the game by the scruff of its neck. “As an individual, we should all accept our mistakes. Otherwise I won't improve in the next game. The shot that I played in Kolkata, maybe I shouldn't have.”
 
 
