

 Cumin seeds are known to strengthen a sluggish digestive system. Due to the thymol compound and other important oils in cumin seeds, they help in stimulating salivary glands and, thus, aid digestion. So, if you are suffering from indigestion, try drinking   tea three times a day. 
 
 
  Take 1 cup of water and add 1 tbsp of cumin seeds to it. Bring it to a boil. Strain and have it three times a day.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Cumin seeds have high fibre content, which boost the activity of gastrointestinal tract. This in turn stimulates enzyme secretion. That is why cumin seeds are used as a natural laxative. Due to this property, cumin seeds are capable of healing severe digestive disorders, like piles. 
 
 
 To get rid of constipation, roast 1 tbsp of cumin seeds till they turn deep brown and grind them into a fine powder. Then mix the powder with water and honey and consume it on an empty stomach everyday.
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Due to their anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, cumin seeds are an awesome home remedy for cold and cough. The compounds in cumin seeds help to soothe inflamed muscles and boost immunity to fight infections.
 
 
  Add 1 tbsp of cumin seeds to 1 glass of water. Bring it to a boil. Also add some chopped ginger to this. Boil properly. Strain and have this twice or thrice a day.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The properties of cumin seeds help in relieving constipation and improving digestion in pregnant women. The seeds also help in dealing with pregnancy symptoms like nausea and constipation. Along with aiding in better delivery, they also enhance lactation.
 
 
  Take a glass of warm milk and add half tbsp cumin powder and 1 tbsp honey to it. Mix well. Have it everyday.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Cumin seeds can help you if you are not able to sleep well. They contain a compound called melatonin, which when consumed with mashed bananas, increases the production of chemicals that induce sleep.
 
 
 Mix half tbsp of cumin powder with 1 tbsp of mashed banana. Have this paste before sleeping. This will help you have a good sleep.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 A face pack containing honey and cumin seeds will make your skin glowy and smooth. Honey soothes inflamed tissues and this spice will prevent the skin from becoming too dry. Apply some jojoba oil after washing it off your face.
 
 
 To prepare this mask, mix one by four tbsp of turmeric powder, half tbsp of cumin powder and 1 tbsp of honey. After you apply this face mask, let it dry for 10 minutes and then wash it off with warm water. You can apply this face pack twice or thrice a week.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Cumin can also help you get long and lustrous tresses.
 
 
  For making this, take 150-200 ml of water (3/4 a glass), 1 tbsp cumin powder and 1 egg yolk. Mix them together and form a smooth paste. Apply it on hair and let it dry. Wash it off with water. You can do this once in a week or once in every two weeks.
 
  
  
 
 
 
