AMRITSAR: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday passed a Rs 1,106-crore budget for the 2017-18 fiscal without SGPC general secretary   delivering a full speech, eliciting objections from a few members.

 Bye the time Chawla had just read out a couple of pages of the budget speech, president Kirpal Singh Badungar raised the slogan “Bole So Nihal” and asked members to raise their arms in approval of the budget.
 
 The objections soon followed. An SGPC member screamed out that there was no need for calling a   if the full speech was not read out. “You should obtain our signatures from our houses and pass the budget yourself,” the member said.
 
 Another SGPC member,  , stood up and objected. Badungar pacified the objecting   by saying that it did not matter if the general secretary read eight pages of the full budget speech.
 
 In the budget, SGPC has taken some bold steps by making Sikh religious education compulsory in primary wings of schools running under its management.
 
 Acknowledging the significance of usage of internet and social media, SGPC has decided to launch apps for i-Phone and Android-based mobile phones. “With the introduction of these apps, every devotee across the world will be directly connected with Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple),” said Badungar.
 
 The Sikh religious body would spend Rs 2 crore and Rs 15 lakh in the financial year for distributing ‘bheta rahit’ (free of cost) Sikh religious literature and Guru Granth Sahib respectively. It has also made provision for Guru Granth Sahib Research Centre, which would also preserve and display the historical scriptures.
 
 With the rise in cases of cancer in Punjab, SGPC has made a provision of Rs 9 crore for help to cancer patients.
 
 In another significant decision, the SGPC has made a budgetary provision for purchasing all utensils made of ‘sarabloh’ by a handful of families in Gharuan village in Kharar tehsil of Mohali district. These families have been making sarabloh utensils since the time of the seventh Sikh master, Guru Har Rai.
 
 
