LUCKNOW: On January 1, SP patriarch   issued two sets of orders -- one declaring chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s SP convention invalid and unconstitutional, and, a second letter addressed to party vice-president  , informing him that he was being sacked from his post and also from primary membership for attending Akhilesh’s convention.

 Issued just a few hours apart, however, Mulayam’s signatures on both documents don’t match, giving rise to speculations over which of the two might be valid. TOI is in possession of both documents. They were also officially released by party leader   from his official twitter handle. On the one hand, Mulayam’s letter to Kiranmoy Nanda is issued on his letterhead as SP national president, and bears MSY’s full name as his signature. The second missive, minutes of SP’s parliamentary meetings, are also issued in Mulayam’s name and bear his  , but one that is entirely different from the one on the Nanda letter. The second, also a much shorter version, is barely legible. 
 
 Justifying the coup he essayed against his father Mulayam, Akhilesh had at SP’s special convention on Sunday said, “Some people” have taken control of Mulayam, getting him to sign documents and take decisions, some that even went against the larger interest of the party. While Akhilesh has made many oblique references to an “outsider” meddling with family affairs and influencing Mulayam, this was perhaps his first public reference to Mulayam less-than-perfect health conditions.” Akhilesh added, “There are only three months remaining (to the end of elections). There is no telling what documents some people may get him to sign, or what decisions they may get him to take. In the greater interest of the party, I had to intervene. In the end, if the   forms the government again, there will be no one who is happier than Netaji. He has been my leader and father, and I will continue to respect him. No one can hurt this father-son relationship.”
 
 
  
 Smarting over Mulayam’s decision to remove him from the post of party president in September, a decision that led to family tensions to spiral southwards, Akhilesh has also, in the past, referred to the typewriter that scripted the SP’s unravelling. Though Akhilesh’s dislike of   is well known within the SP circles, Akhilesh openly referred to Singh at the SP’s workers meeting on October 24. Holding Singh responsible for the feud in the first family and for influencing Mulayam against him, Akhilesh alleged Amar Singh had practically dictated the letter announcing his removal as state president. He said, “It was taking time to type the letter. Amar Singh sent for a typewriter from his office. Have you ever heard before of somebody bringing a typewriter to Netaji’s house to issue a letter removing a state president who Netaji appointed, himself?”
 
 
