Panaji: The   for the   returns to Goa after more than two decades and the state is bristling with confidence that it can add to their five titles, the last of which was won seven years ago in Chennai.
 
  Chief coach   and assistant coach Norbert Gonsalves have been entrusted with the responsibility of getting the squad in shape for the 71st Santosh Trophy – likely to kick off on March 12 – and the duo are confident the boys will be ready for the opener against Meghalaya.
  
  “This week we focused on improving the fitness level of the players as some were not practicing with their respective teams. With whatever resources I have, I am trying my best to work with it. Norbert is there with me and is also helping a lot,” said Costa, the Sporting Clube de Goa coach.
  
  The Goa Football Association has named 18 probables for the final round and training began at the Rosary ground in Navelim on Monday. From among the team that played the qualifiers in Madhya Pradesh, midfielder Richard Costa and defender Fulgancio Cardozo will not be around as they are now engaged in the I-League with Churchill Bros, Goa’s lone representative.
  
  Mateus, however, has little to worry as he can choose from the likes of Glan Martins, Cajetan Fernandes, Darryl Costa (all Sporting Clube de Goa), Mohammad Ali, Nickson Castanha (both Dempo) and former India international Nicolau Colaco (Salgaocar), all of who have joined the probables.
  
  Defending champions Services, West Bengal and Chandigarh are the other teams in Group A with Goa. Group B includes Kerala, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Railways and Punjab.
  
  After the All India Football Federation decided not to allow I-League players for the Santosh Trophy in 2013, the tournament has lost its charm. Goa last hosted the coveted tournament in 1996, losing to arch-rivals Bengal in the final at  , but made amends when the two teams met in 2009.
  
  Now that the tournament is played again in Goa, Costa has reasons to believe they have a real chance to win the trophy, thanks to an expected home crowd support. With Dempo SC, Salgaocar FC and Sporting Clube de Goa pulling out of the I-League this season, Goa will have a comparatively stronger squad as well.
  
  In the qualifiers last month, it was Liston Colaco who impressed the most. The young Salgaocar forward led the charge netting a hat-trick in a 8-0 thumping of Daman and Diu in the opener and then secured a brace in the 4-0 win over Madhya Pradesh which ensured Goa’s qualification.
  
  “The boys are extra motivated since we are playing at home. The crowd must be more supportive. If they come at the stadium and cheer the players, it will certainly help. They play a crucial role in keeping the team going,” said Costa.
  
  Meanwhile, Costa must ensure that preparations are not slackened. The first test will be on Saturday as the squad plays a friendly against a team comprising of players from Salgaocar and Sporting.
