NAGPUR: The functioning of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health department has come under scanner as it has proposed to continue the services of M/s   Private Limited, the firm entrusted with maintenance and cleaning   in  

 NMC will pay Rs 3.58 crore to the firm which will maintain 405 FRP urinals and 1,134 units of public toilets across 10 zones. But most toilets are so poorly maintained that people are forced to urinate in the open. The condition in slum areas is even worse as most toilets are closed or never been cleaned.
 
 This is despite the corporation claiming that its has started a massive drive to ensure that all toilet blocks are properly maintained and cleaned on a daily basis.
 
 Team TOI inspected toilets and found many of them waterless and beyond use. Locals alleged that the corporation’s sanitation staff rarely visits these toilets. “It is a busy market. The pots are choked and overflowing. There is no water to clean it. During the drive, the market association cleaned the toilets,” said Ram Bawankule, a wholesale vegetable vendor for Phule Market.
 
 Independent corporator   had exposed a scam of the private firm engaged in maintaining public toilets in the past. She also caught its employees using fake liquids and powders for cleaning public toilets.
 
 TOI found many urinals in areas like Khamla that were properly maintained but closed. Many community toilet complexes and urinal blocks of corporations were found closed.
 
 Last year, NMC had announced that it would set up 100 more toilets on important roads, but only around five could be constructed.
 
 The question, however, is not only of adequacy, but also of maintenance of these 1,134 units having a direct impact on health, hygiene and sanitation standards of the city.
 
 “Public toilets can become a source of infection, unless properly cleaned and disinfected. Badly-maintained toilets are home to extensive mosquito breeding, and users can also get skin infections. If water supply is not available, it can facilitate spread of diseases through faeco-oral route,” said gynecologist Dr Varsha Dhawle.
 
 She added that urinary tract infection is very common nowadays. She also stressed the need to increase the number of public toilets alongside major roads in the city.
 
 An official said that change is happening but slowly. “There are problems with waterless urinals. Our team is inspecting and checking the status of all toilets. A lot of repair work is required. Mission to keep the city clean can be achieved only with people’s participation,” said NMC’s health officer.
 
