NEW DELHI: In a major catch, the Indo-Nepal border guarding force   (SSB) arrested   terrorist   alias Sadiq, who was entering India on the directions of Pakistan-based handlers for a specific mission, on Saturday evening.

 Sources said Ahmed, a native of   in Ramban, Jammu & Kashmir, was trained in operating weapons like AK-47, AK-56 and rocket launchers in Pakistani camps run jointly by the  , its spy agency   and terrorist outfits. 
 
 Ahmed, based in Pakistan since September 2003, used to take Quran classes for Hizb terrorists from J&K being trained across the border, sources said.
 
 SSB spokesperson Deepak Singh said Ahmed was caught by the force’s 1st battalion around 5.15pm on Saturday from Sonauli in UP on the India-Nepal border when he was travelling on a bus disguised as a Kashmiri shawl and carpet vendor.
 
 Singh said Ahmed had a Pakistani passport and had married a local girl there. 
 
 He said Ahmed was involved in many violent attacks against civilians and security forces, including an attack on the STF camp in J&K. “When asked about identity documents, he was unable to produce them. 
 
 On physical search, a Pakistani passport and identity card having his address as Lal Musa, Tehsil Kharian, in Pakistan’s Punjab were recovered,” he said.
 
  officials said Ahmed was sent so that while HuM tried to disrupt routine life in the   with regular incidents, Pakistan wanted to escalate things by sending highly trained commanders to India on specific missions.
 
 Ahmed had come to Kathmandu from Faisalabad via Sharjah on May 10 along with accomplice Mohammad Shafi with the aim of entering India.
 
 Ahmed and Shafi, another native of J&K, split up in Kathmandu and Ahmed boarded a bus for the India-Nepal border.
 
 “He was in touch with a handler from India who used to deposit money in his account on and off,” Singh said.
 
 Officials said Ahmed was trained by militants in Banihal and adjoining areas in J&K. He has been active with Hizb since 2002. 
 
 In 2003, he crossed over to Pakistan in a group of 23 persons and received several types of training there.
 
 From November 2003 to January 2004, he received physical and arms training at Atak in   province of Pakistan by instructors of HuM, ISI and Pakistani Army and was trained to fight Indian security forces in J&K.
 
 After completing training, he stayed in various Hizb camps in Abbottabad, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (2004 to 2006) , Garhi Habibullah in Manshera (2006-08) and then in Jangal Magar in Manshera from 2008 to 2009.
 
 Ahmed told interrogators that he used to preach Quran to Hizb cadres during his stay in various camps in Pakistan.
 
 He married a local girl, Asha Naeem, in Kharian on November 2, 2009, and has two sons. He also started a hosiery business there.
 
