Nagpur: Music lovers were treated to a mix of old and new songs with a programme ‘Suron ki sargam’on Sunday evening at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines. The event meant to be a launching event for 16-year-old budding singer Parvathi Nair, a 11th class arts student at LAD college. The event was organized by MV Unnikrishnan, known to be the voice of Yesudas in the city, under the banner of his organization Sargam. Nair opened the show with the songs ‘Aye malik tere’, ‘Bedardi balma tujhko’ and ‘Ruke ruke se kadam’. Her performance was showered with applause by the audience. Budding artiste Dhiraj presented the song ‘maayi re’. Unnikrishnan also graced the stage for a few songs, such as ‘Sunaina sunaina’ and ‘O goria re’. Dr Nishikant Lokhande rendered a Marathi song, and a duet with Nair for ‘Mere dholna’. Srishti Kakani presented ‘Jaadu hai nasha hai’ and ‘Chura liya hai tumne jo dil ko’which was highly appreciated. ‘Saare shehar mein koi nahi’ was sung by Nair and Nandu Andhare, whereas Dr Pravin Jadhav presented ‘Aane wala pal’. ‘Meghare meghare’ and ‘Hum kale hai toh kya hua’ were rendered by Pratik Jain. Manish Nair sang ‘Tere bina zindagi se’ with Nair. Total 25 songs were sung at the musical event. The musical arrangements were done by Parimal Joshi and Mangesh Patle. Pushpa Anand anchored the show. Beginning at the age of six, Nair has learnt Carnatic music under the guidance of Pattamal Ganpati Iyer, a violinist and classical singer in Chennai. She is now being trained by singer Rajeswari Neelakantan, and shares that she wants to pursue playback singing. Dhiraj Srungaram, 30, has sang the Tamil and Telugu versions of movie Jodha Akbar’s song ‘azeem-o-shaan shehanshah’ with AR Rehman, and for Telugu film Kshetram. He was another highlight of the show. An employee with Western Coal Fields Ltd, he hails from Hyderabad and has learnt Carnatic music under the guidance of Shri Ramachari. Talking about the singers, Unnikrishnan said he aimed to provide a launch pad to new talent. “I want to keep motivating budding singers, and I have already introduced nearly 300 singers in the past 40 years,” he says, adding that he was doing this as he had never got a chance to sing in his young days. Unnikrishnan started with music group Sargam, a platform for budding singers, about 27 years ago, and regularly holds musical concerts. Quotes: The show was too good. Hats off to the sustained efforts by Unnikrishnan in promoting Parvathi and Dhiraj Dr Anup Marar | Paediatrician  Nair has a melodious voice, and all the singers were performed well. The selection of songs was unique Dr AD Patil | Veterinarian  Parvathi has a mesmerizing voice, and I think it will take her heights. Her parents have been instrumental in recognizing her talent Kavitha Iyer | Teacher 