PANAJI: The   (ISL) is set for expansion but not in the manner everyone expected. With talks of a merger between   and I-League, India's premier football competition, widespread for a while now everyone believed that three clubs from the I-League ­  , East Bengal and Bengaluru FC ­ would be picked. But the ISL has now invited bids from "interested parties" to enroll and participate in the next edition.

 "The ISL will be a 10-franchise affair next season. The organizers will first look at all the parties who have bid for a franchise from any of the 10 probable cities and then take an appropriate decision," a source who is closely tracking the development, told TOI.
 
 "If Mohun Bagan and East Bengal want to be part of the ISL, they are welcome, but they must have the financial strength," added the source.
 
 Interestingly, there will not be any additional franchise from the northeast, killing whatever faint hopes I-League's fairytale champions   FC may have nursed. The Mizoram club will continue participating in the I-League, a competition that the AIFF has continued to maintain enjoys the highest status in Indian football.
 
 The ISL organizers will float the tender through 'Invitation To Bid' on Friday. The last day for submission of bids from prospective team owners in 10 cities -Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cuttack, Durgapur, Hyderabad, Jamshedpur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Siliguri and Thiruvananthapuram ­ is May 24.
 
 Should both, as expected, get the nod, the ISL will be expanded to 10 franchises from eight, even though the organizers said in a statement on Thursday that "one or three new winning bidders shall be enrolled and awarded the right to participate in the ISL."
 
 The decision to invite bids will leave Mohun Bagan and East Bengal stranded. Cities like Durgapur and Siliguri have in the past hosted the big matches involving the Kolkata teams and the doors for Bagan and East Bengal to bid have been left open. The clubs, though, are unlikely to bid, especially since the   (AIFF) has made it clear that the I-League will continue to be India's official league.
 
 The cities may have been identified but in reality the focus would be on just two: Bengaluru, where former I-League champions Bengaluru FC are heavily tipped to make the cut and Jamshedpur, where the Tata Group has shown more than just passing interest in owning a franchise.
 
 Bengaluru FC, owned by the  , definitely has the financial muscle to compete in the ISL but sources said they are looking at guarantees ­ from the AIFF ­ that ISL participation won't rob them of the chance to play in Asian competitions, particularly the AFC Champions League play-off and AFC Cup.
 
 "Bengaluru FC are willing to play in the ISL but only if the league gets recognition from AFC," said the source.
 
 If Bengaluru FC opt to play in the ISL, it would mean curtains in the I-League.
 
