KOLKATA: A police complaint was filed against poet   on Tuesday, which, ironically, happens to be the World Poetry Day. The complaint was the response from a college student from Bagdogra to the 12-line poem, 'Abhishap', that Srijato had posted on social media on March 19, soon after   took charge as the Uttar Pradesh CM. Srijato is the second Bengali poet after   accused of hurting religious sentiments. 

 The poet, however, isn't in a mood to take back a single word of what he wrote. Nor is complainant   having a second thought over pursuing the complaint he lodged with the Siliguri cyber crime cell. 
 
 "If Srijato has freedom of expression to say whatever he feels in the garb of poetry, no one can deny my right to protest and take recourse to law," said Sarkar, a second-year student of  . "I had filed a similar complaint against a person for posting derogatory posts against goddess Saraswati. Police then took a positive role, but they are not so forthcoming this time," he said. Siliguri police commissioner C S Lepcha said: "A case has been started. The probe is at a preliminary stage."
 
 Sarkar, however, is not satisfied. "Srijato can't get away with what he wrote in the last line. In the land of Tagore and Saratchandra, how distasteful is his choice of words. He is a pervert," Sarkar said. Hindu Samhati, the social Hindu organisation he belongs to, isn't taking the matter lightly either.
 
 State   president Dilip Ghosh too stood by the complainant. "I had never read his (Srijato's) poems earlier. He can have ideological differences with a political party. But let's not forget that Yogi Adityanath has the mandate of the people. How can Srijato use such language?" said Ghosh.
 
 The state BJP chief also hinted at the possibility of filing more such complaints from Uttar Pradesh if Bengal Police sits on the case. "Social media posts can be seen by people across the world. Others, including people in UP, might get hurt. They too can file complaints. There are laws in the country and I am sure justice will be done."
 
 Srijato insisted that his detractors haven't understood his choice of metaphors. "If they can't understand metaphors, it's not my fault," said the poet, adding that he had been equally critical of acts of Islamic fundamentalism. "I was trolled then as well. And, yes, I was disturbed by the instigating anti-women comment made by Yogi Adityanath's men at one of his meetings. So when he was made the Uttar Pradesh CM, I posted this poem," he said.
 
 Among various others, Srijato found support from the likes of poet Mandakranta Sen. "He has done the right thing. We will be taking to the streets. Today, it has happened to Srijato. Tomorrow, it can happen to any of us," Sen said.
 
 However, Akademi award winner Subodh Sarkar said, "In such sensitive times, it would have been better had he not used such a metaphor. If anyone has a problem, it should be countered through writings and not an FIR."
 
 
