
HYDERABAD: To improve its revenue, the cash-strapped Hyderabad Metropolitan   and Sewerage Board is exploring various methods, including allotting the responsibility of collection of monthly water bills to a private agency .
 Currently , the   is issuing bills and collecting money through meter readers in city.
 
  As a result, it could not reach the target of collecting a revenue Rs 100 crore per month. Moreover, the Board has also found several lacunae in the issue of bills to consumers.
 
 According to Water Board records, there are 9.20 lakh consumers in the city and peripheral circles of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).About 70 per cent of the consumers get monthly bills. The remaining consumers are not covered under the billing system. Meters fixed to taps at the residences of these consumers are lying defunct.
 
 “The Water Board has decided to issue monthly bills to all 9.20 lakh consumers.Though the Board is making an effort to issue monthly bills to every consumer, meeting the target seems difficult. 
 
 As a result, it is incurring a deficit revenue of nearly Rs 20 crore every month. We are planning to reach a target of 100 per cent billing,“ said an HMWS&SB official. During a recent meeting, the Water Board came out with a plan of giving the responsibility of issuing bills and collection of money to a private agency through '  
 
 The agency concerned should deploy the manpower, provide   on its own, and take up the exercise like issuing of bills and collection of payments. At the end of month, the agency should show good results.
 
 The Water Board has decided to approach the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) to work out the modalities to implement the new system by inviting `expression of interest' through tenders, the official said. By March next year, all the GHMC peripheral circles will get water supply every alternate day .
 
  The revenue is likely to increase once water supply to peripheral areas is augmented. The Board is planning to implement the new plan in a couple of months, added the official.
 
