PUNE: The   ( ) is planning to go ahead with its Rs 13 crore plan to revamp the   system in the eastern parts of the   area, especially Wanowrie and Ghorpadi. 

 The move came after the board did not receive a response from the   (PMC) for a joint project.
 
 The drainage system makeover in Wanowrie and Ghorpadi areas was left out in the 2015 reconstruction drive due to topographical issues. A consultant had found that the board did not have adequate land to be used for municipal purposes and focused on replacing the ageing drainage lines in the area. Board officials then wrote to the civic body proposing to link the new drainage lines to PMC trunk lines. The project cost was estimated at Rs 6 crores with lesser requirement of land.
 
 However, six months later, the board has said it did not get any replies from PMC officials. This is PCB’s second botched attempt to partner with PMC for drainage systems after an agreement fell apart in 2009.
 
 “This proposal has been dallied for long now. It can’t be held back any further. Since there has been no response from PMC, we have no option but to proceed with our initial plan of installing new sewage lines and two new sewage treatment plants in Wanowrie and Ghorpadi. It is expected to cost a little more than Rs 13 crore,” a PCB official said.
 
 PCB engineers said both new plants will discharge the treated sewage into the Bhairoba Nalla. The Wanowrie plant would have a higher capacity as it would cater to a large population.
 
 The officials further added that the land issue has also been “largely resolved”, with the board approving to reclassify around three acres of land at two locations.
 
 “The Wanowrie plot of 1.5 acres is classified as A-1, and is part of the Indian Infantry Lines. The Ghorpadi land is with the defence estates department under B-4 classification. Both have been approved by the board to be classified under class C, which permits its usage for municipal purposes. However, we still need approval from the local military authorities,” a senior official from PCB engineering department said.
 
 
