BHOPAL: The   highlighted the SIMI operatives encounter and   scam deaths in   as Indian government's human rights excesses in a report released on Sunday.

 The report titled `Human Rights Practices in India for 2016' mentions the killing of suspected SIMI operatives after their escape from Bhopal central jail as “arbitrary deprivation of life and other unlawful or politically motivated killings.“
 
 It also mentions the Vyapam deaths as examples of “corruption and lack of transparency in government“. The US report states that in July 2015, the   ordered   to take over a Madhya Pradesh state government investigation of fraud within the state-controlled Professional Examination Board (Vyapam).
 
 “Arrests in the case since the investigation began in 2013 included more than 2,000 individuals. In August, the CBI registered a complaint against 60 individuals and filed charges against a student candidate and an impersonator. The Madhya Pradesh high court granted bail to some of the accused.The CBI was also investigating the deaths of 48 individuals over the span of five years, including a journalist, who reported on the fraud,“ the US State Department report reads.
 
 According to the report, investigations and prosecu tions of individual cases took place, but lax enforcement, a shortage of trained police officers, and an overburdened and under resourced court system contributed to infrequent convictions.
 
 The report also mentions that there were 104 reported police “encounter deaths“ registered countrywide by National Human Rights Commission ( ), according to the home ministry's data for 2015. The US state document states, “There were reports the government and its agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings, including extrajudicial killings of suspected criminals and insurgents.“ It mentions how 20-year-old Sunil Yadav was found dead in Umri police station in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh on April 9, 2015, four days after his arrest on charges of theft. Under the sub-section `Societal Violence or Discrimination' (based on religion and caste), the US report mentions a case from Mandsaur district, where an alleged witness had taken a video of cow vigilantes beating up two women outside a railway station as police watch from a distance.
 
 
