New Delhi: Participants of the Clash of the Titans Invitational Debate returned for the fourth year and put up sharp arguments on ‘The rise of   - a passing phase & not an enduring reality’.

 The exchange between the alumni from five colleges of Delhi   — Hindu College, IP College for Women,   House, Sri Ram College of Commerce and Lady Sri Ram College — explored, prodded and synthesised the very concept of populism and threw it back at the audience in different hues.
 
 Miranda House won the debate with its two-member team breaking down arguments and punching holes in the competitors’ definition of the doctrine. Sonali Khan, vice president at Breakthrough — a human rights group, explained how populism in its current form is based on hate and that very foundation will be lead to its end.
 
 According to Khan, populism is turning one section into a victim and then trying to turn them into a survivor. “The rise of populism is inherently flawed because it works on cleavages in the society. It is based on hate between people and at some point of time, communication will fight populism by connecting people, when the victim will wake up and become the survivor,” she added.
 
 Her team member,  , one of the youngest speakers on stage, hit out that the speakers against the motion had been contradicting themselves by explaining populism as a phase that changes every season when one political power rises.
 
 The speakers at the debate repeatedly spoke about the stand the   and the   have taken over immigration, Brexit, and demonetisation in India.
 
 Pinky Anand, the speaker from  , speaking against the motion, pointed out that populism is based on socio-economic and cultural inequality. “People are worried about immigration and start believing that they are going to be run over by the newer arrivals,” she said. “Populism is going to stay until you don’t have utopia, until the David and Goliath exists,” she added.
 
 Popular journalist and speaker for Hindu College, Sreenivasan Jain, pointed out at that many movement that had cropped out of populist agenda turned out to be ‘jumlas’, like Brexit bus, ‘notebandi’ and the erection of the wall by United States President  . “After a while, it turned out to be an allegorical wall,” he added.
 
 In his argument, Jain pointed out that the said populism is a tool for political survival and it will always come in phases.
 
