Cleared/355 Words (Francis)

 Madurai: A former guest lecturer in the department of journalism and science communication at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) stabbed the head of the department several times as he was aggrieved over not being recruited for the job in this academic year.
 
 The injured person, who has been identified as S Jenefa, an associate professor, has been admitted to a private hospital where her condition was said to stable.
 
 The accused, V Jothimurugan, 32, of Kulamangalam, was working as a guest lecturer in the department last year. He was teaching practical classes on photography and layout designing. However, his contract was not renewed due to his poor performance last year. Meanwhile, he started pursuing his PhD in another department in the university. 
 
 The   are selected by the department based on requirement. Jothimurugan had approached the department again requesting him to be reappointed. However, last Friday, the department conducted an interview and selected two people as guest lecturers.
 
 Jothimurugan came to the department on Tuesday morning and met Jenefa in her chamber. After some time, he drew a knife, stabbed her multiple times and came outside.
 
 Hearing Jenefa’s screams, students came to help her. She was rushed to a primary healthcare centre at Nagamalai Pudukottai. Later, she was shifted to a private hospital in Madurai.
 
 Students caught hold of Jothimurugan and handed him over to the Nagamalai Pudukottai police who reached the spot after being informed about the murder attempt. Police registered a case and recorded the statement of the injured professor. She stated that he was dropped as faculty due to poor performance but kept pestering her for a job. 
 
 MKU vice-chancellor P P Chellathurai, who visited Jenefa in the hospital told reporters later that it was a shocking incident. “A head of department can’t provide jobs for all applicants, and there are certain norms and requirements from candidates for appointment. The university will take some precautionary measures for the safety of the teaching and non-teaching staff,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the incident has caused flutter among students and faculty as a job fair was organised by the district administration on the university premises on Tuesday.
 
 
