KOLKATA: The   has refused to accept Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s argument justifying collection of huge revenue in scrapped currency. The   had asked the civic top brass to explain what prompted them to receive 1000- and 500- rupee notes in lakhs from property taxpayers without checking their valid identity.

 The I-T officials found the collection of Rs 73 crore by the   assessment department, in the first phase of property tax collection under a special   (RBI) directive, fishy. A section of taxpayers too came under I-T lens as they had deposited huge amounts (around Rs 25-57 lakhs) in scrapped currency. After the I-T sought a clarification from the KMC on this matter, the pace of revenue collection slowed down in the second phase as the RBI extended the deadline for payment of property tax in old currency. The I-T had sought names of those who had paid lump sum amounts in scrapped notes.
 
 The civic body wrote to the I-T department after consulting its law department. In its letter, the KMC reasoned that it invited the taxpayers to clear their dues in scrapped currency only after the RBI had issued a clear directive on this issue. The department did send the I-T the names of those tax payers who cleared their dues in huge amounts.
 
 Sources in the I-T department confirmed the department was not satisfied with the KMC reply. “The civic authorities have tried to clarify on collection of property tax in scrapped currency. But they have failed to clarify on one vital aspect. Why should the KMC assessment department accepted more than Rs 25,000 from a taxpayer by flouting its own rule,” said an I-T department official. A KMC official conceded, according to an existing KMC circular issued by the municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed, the civic body can’t accept more than Rs 25,000 in cash.
 
 “Any taxpayer who needs to pay more is required to pay by demand draft. All I can say is that relating to payment of property tax in scrapped currency, while the KMC treasury department staff did not receive more than Rs 25,000, the civic body’s assessment department flouted rules and accepted any amount that was offered by an individual in old notes. The amount was later kept in the suspense account to bypass the circular” a KMC official said. The official confirmed the department would call all major tax payers who paid a hefty amount. “At the same time we will again seek an explanation from the civic top brass on this issue,” he added.
 
 Speaking on the issue, Debabrata Majumdar, the member, mayor-in-council said that the KMC had a letter to the I-T department with reply to its queries. “We have sent the names of those who have paid a hefty amount in scrapped note according to a RBI directive,” Majumdar said.
 
 
