Surat: Favourable demographic profiles and the ever-increasing investment compared to other metropolitan cities what with its promising markets have put the Diamond City on the metro map of the country.

 Surat’s rapid population growth, driven by migrant inflows and high birth rates, has resulted in the city adding over 1.7 million to its population base between 2010-2015. Ernst & Young (EY) in its report says that the city has the distinct advantage in terms of its young working-age cohort, with 22 per cent of the population between the age group of 15-24 years, relative to other metro’s 20 per cent. The city is also ranked as a major investment destination by global investors after the metros.
 
 The number of households in the city hovered around 11 lakh mark in 2011, which has grown phenomenally to 14.5 lakh. The number of households in the city increased by nearly 3 lakh in just five years, but still the household income has not decreased. National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) in a report says that Surat’s household income at present was highest in the country with 0.45 million or nearly $11,000 per year, which is comparable to Rs7.45 lakh to Rs7.70 lakh.
 
 Centre for Social Studies’ (CSS) professor Aakash Acharya said, “The EY report substantiates NCAER, Mayors’ Council and other reports. Existing metros in India are reaching a saturation point and so growth comes to tier-II cities. Surat has a distinct advantage due to its proximity to Mumbai and Ahmedabad.”
 
 The EY report says that private investment in the Diamond City has picked up substantially. The city registered 21 per cent year-on-year nominal bank credit growth from 2012-16, higher than any other metro. 
 
 Apart from diamond and textile sectors, real estate too has been driving the economic growth of the city. In the last five years, at least 3 lakh new houses have come up in the city, which are much higher in numbers compared to Pune and Ahmedabad. The high level of individual consumption is also a factor behind the city’s chances of becoming the country’s 10th metro. Surat’s 0.13 million per capita income was lower, but comparable to Ahmedabad’s.
 
 
