Chief minister   launched a frontal attack on RJD chief   on Friday and said he did not need a lesson in secularism from any leader in the country.
 
  Speaking before seeking the trust vote which he won 131-108 in the assembly, Nitish said, “Secularism cannot be used as a cover for corruption by a family to make wealth.” Making an obvious reference to the allegations of acquiring benami properties by Lalu and his family, Nitish said, “No one in the country can give me a lesson in secularism. My government will work for the state and in its interest with transparency for good governance without leaving any scope for corruption. I finally split away from the grand alliance after it became difficult for me to run it any further.”
  
  Not sparing the   either, Nitish said it did not intervene to resolve the situation. He also reminded the grand old party that it would not have got more than 15 seats to contest had not Nitish ensured 40 for them in the 2015 assembly election in Bihar.
  
  Tejashwi, in his new avatar of the leader of opposition in the assembly, opened the two-hour debate and asked Nitish to explain why he formed government four times in the last four years, if it was not just to build his image and serve his political culture and style. The Lalu scion wondered if he had sacked all 11   ministers in June 2013 on corruption charges.
  
  On his new alliance with the BJP, Tejashwi said Nitish had moved from “Hey Ram to Jai Shri Ram” in the centenary celebration of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagrah, pointing out that Nitish’s image and face did not fetch votes, as the electoral performance of the Samata Party and its present incarnate JD(U) he leads has shown. “I only hope the BJP does not dump him (Nitish), later,” Tejashwi added.
  
  The trust vote was necessitated after Nitish resigned as the CM of the grand alliance government of RJD, JD(U) and Congress on July 26, over the FIR lodged by the CBI against deputy CM  , his father Lalu and mother  , among others, in the alleged ‘land-for-railway hotels’ deal. Within hours of his resignation, Nitish also staked claim to form government with the BJP-led NDA.
  
  The chief minister needed the support of 121 MLAs as only 239 took part in the trust vote in the 243-member assembly. The RJD demanded secret voting, but Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary denied saying rules did not warrant it and opted for the ‘vote division method’.
  
  Overall, 70 MLAs of the JD(U), 52 of the BJP, five of the other NDA constituents and four Independent MLAs voted for Nitish, while 79 RJD, 26 Congress and three CPI(ML) MLAs voted against him. JD(U) has 71 MLAs, including Speaker Choudhary, who could use his franchise only in case of a tie. RJD’s Raj Ballabh Yadav is in Biharsharif jail and Congress MLA Sudarshan was in toilet due to abdomen pain and could not participate in the trust vote. BJP member Anand Bhushan Pandey is undergoing treatment in Delhi.
  
  Earlier, after the House met for the trust vote, the Speaker announced Nitish as the new leader of the House and Tejashwi as new leader of opposition.
  
  Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, senior BJP member Nand Kishore Yadav, senior Congress functionary Sadanand Singh and Mehboob Alam from the Congress also spoke before the vote.
