MADURAI/ VELLORE: Three people engaged in illegal manufacturing of crackers died in two separate incidents in   on Tuesday. The first accident that happened near   in Virudhunagar district in the morning claimed one life while two workers were killed in the second accident that happened in   district in the afternoon. 

 The first incident happened at Pathuvai Nagar in Tiruvallur Colony near Sivakasi around 10.15am claiming the life of a worker. Five others were injured in the accident. They were manufacturing fireworks illegally in a warehouse. The warehouse, situated in a residential area, was used for stocking pipes made of paper pulp which are used in fireworks. 
 
 The Sivakasi East police and revenue officials were alerted about the  . Fire and Rescue department personnel from Sivakasi station rushed to the spot and carried out rescue works.
 
 Six people were pulled out of the warehouse, and all of them suffered burn injuries. They were rushed to Centre of Excellence to Treat Burn Injuries in Sivakasi. S Nathan, 30, who suffered 100 % burn injuries, died after reaching the hospital while others were battling for their lives. 
 
 N Muthupandi, 19, suffered 90 % burn injuries, R Jeyapaul, 33, and P Ayyappan had 80 % burn injuries, G Mariappan had 70% burn injuries and V Irudayaraj, 45, suffered 40 % burn injuries. All of them except Mariappan hail from Tiruthangal area. All of them were in a critical condition, official sources said.
 
 Preliminary investigations revealed that the warehouse belonged to S Selvam, 22 alias XXX Selvam. He was using the building to manufacture fireworks illegally. They were dealing with hazardous chemical granules (manimarunthu) used in fancy type fireworks. The accident occurred while they were loading the granules into paper pipes for fireworks. 
 
 In the afternoon, two workers were killed in a blast at an illegal   manufacturing unit at Adiyathur near Jolarpet in Vellore district. The deceased have been identified as C Gandhi, 30, and C Ponnurangam, 42, of Adiyathur village. They were engaged in making crackers used in village temple festivals and funeral processions in rural areas.
 
 The accident happened around 1.40pm when they were making crackers in an open area behind the house of G Anandan, 50, in a mangrove. 
 
 The blast might have occurred due to friction or mishandling of explosive materials. Police said the Ponnurangam's body was blown off into pieces, while the legs of Gandhi were blown off. 
 
 The Jolarpet police registered a case in this regard and launched an investigation. 
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that Anandan had obtained a licence to sell crackers and he owns an outlet in the village. However, he was manufacturing the illegally in the mangrove. He engaged Gandhi and Ponnurangam to make crackers.
 
 
