 is back with a bang in Chennai 600028 II: Second Innings. The actor managed to get all the laughs for his role as an unmarried guy in the film. And this just proves yet again that his combination with his brother and director   works. Ask him about it and he says, 'It is in my jathagam, I think (laughs). But honestly, I am not a comedian. When people see me, they laugh at my mannerism or dialogues. But I am not like a Vadivelu or Santhanam. I don't have a team like they do. My brother knows how to use me in his films, which is why I guess it works for his films. But sadly that chemistry didn't sync with other directors. After the first part, I did act in a few films like Santosh Subramaniam, Thozha and Sathyam. But I realised that people don't laugh at my jokes in those films. But the situation changed again when I did  , Goa, Mankatha, Biriyani and Masss. At one point, I decided I will not act in other directors' films. I took a break and didn't take up any film offers. Later, anna advised me that I should do movies and earn some money (laughs). So, I have taken up a few films now.' Premgi now has Simba with   and Takkar, in which he plays interesting roles.

 But how does he manage to get the dialogues already made popular by a star again reach out to the masses in his films? 'Enna Koduma Sir Idhu just happened by fluke. We, boys (Chennai 6000028), used to address each other as sir on the set. Vijay Vasanth casually said it once and even   also mouthed the same dialogue. It got featured in the film and it became a hit! The same thing happened for Evalavo Pannitom Itha Panna Matoma. Vijay sir used it in his film Azhagiya Tamizh Magan. It worked in Saroja, too! I even used superstar's dialogues in one of my films with anna. Using punch dialogues which were already popular worked for me, too. But we use it only if it works for the scene, otherwise we don't force apply it in every film,' explains Premgi. 
 
 Premgi has also composed for several films. So, how does he see himself in the next five years? 'I don't have any aims or goals. If I get an opportunity to do music for a film, I will take it up as it is close to my heart. Like I mentioned earlier, I will be taking acting offers, too. Though I love music, acting offers one a lot more money. I have no director aspirations as it involves a lot of work. From writing the script to seeing your film in the theatre ' it is a long process. As of now, I am happy doing both ' music and acting,' he says.
 
 
