GREATER NOIDA: A day after the   accepted director Mohammed Salim’s resignation under pressure from students who were protesting against his alleged misdemeanour, a group of about 60 students on Tuesday came out in support of Salim.

 A female student’s allegation that Salim had verbally abused her and attempted to hurl a shoe at another student on Sunday has divided the students of the private   in Knowledge Park.
 
 Claiming that Salim had tried to introduce many positive changes in the college, the pro-Salim students insisted that they would resume attending classes only after the director returns to the college.
 
 Some said that they could not believe that Salim would do something like throwing a shoe at someone. The students did not attend classes and admitted that they had the support of the administration.
 
 Aman, a first-year law student, told TOI that senior students would tell them that earlier there was no discipline with regard to attendance and anyone could walk into the college at any time. “Salim sir introduced strictness and made sure that every student has 75% attendance in order to sit for the exams. Those who were protesting (against him) on Monday were students who were debarred from taking exams because of attendance shortage,” Aman said.
 
 While students admitted that Salim was strict, with most having been scolded by him sometime in the past, they said he was only trying to change the “lackadaisical approach among students”. Some students said that he was behind organising guest lectures by distinguished teachers.
 
 When asked, many students admitted that there were too many rumours doing the rounds about Sunday’s incident and they were unsure about the facts. Some students could be seen convincing others to join the protest.
 
 Meanwhile, Himanshu choudhary, a third-year BA.LLB student, handed a written apology to Akhilesh Kumar Khan, principal of the college, for having hurled abuses at him during Monday’s protest. Eariler on Tuesday, the principal had lodged a complaint with the Knowledge Park police station alleging that Choudhary, a supporter of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), had verbally abused him on Monday.
 
 Knowledge Park SHO Manish Sharma said, “A complaint was received in the morning but after the student's apology, the matter was resolved.”
 
