KOLKATA: When   had completed shooting as rickshaw-puller Hasari Pal in Rolland Joffe’s “City of Joy”, his Hollywood co-actor Patrick Swayze was sure that he would at least get a nomination at the Academy Awards. Never one “false moment”, Swayze had insisted that Puri gave his all to the role with “no fear, no defence, no justification”. Puri’s biggest regret was that the Academy nomination never came by for this 1992-film though he was always happy to go down memory lane and talk about the way this film forged his deep bond with the City of Joy.

 If Swayze had insisted that Puri seemed like an “Indian version” of his father in the foreword to Nandita C. Puri’s book titled “Unlikely Hero: Om Puri”, his other co-star Rudraprasad Sengupta described Puri as a thespian who was dedicated to the craft of acting without any dependence on “ornamentation and decoration”. “Being hard-working came naturally to him. Theatre gave him a sense of discipline,” Sengupta said.
 
 Ace photographer Nemai Ghosh describes Puri’s face as being “ideal” for the lens since it exhibited so much of character. “His eyes spoke,” he said, cherishing the experience of shooting stills for “City of Joy”. One shot of Puri, Shabana Azmi and Swayze on a staircase of the set was particularly interesting. “Once I had brought out a Satyajit Ray pocket calendar. Somehow, I missed out on giving it to him. He had called me up to ask for a copy,” Ghosh said.
 
 The Ray family, of course, was a pivotal Kolkata connect for Puri. The legendary director had watched Puri in a Hindi film and had decided to cast him in this film. Excited with the offer, Puri had insisted that he would reach Raipur some days before the shooting in order to acclimatise himself with Ray’s world. “It was the role of shoe-maker and Om would roam around in the sun to get tanned,” he said.
 
 Ghosh had first bumped into Puri during the shooting of “Sadgati” in Raipur. “When we reached Raipur, Manik-da (Satyajit Ray) had gone to see the location. In order to kill time, we went to watch a show of ‘Ek Duje Ke Liye’ at a local theatre. There were no seats available. Since he had just done a Shyam Benegal film that had drawn attention, the hall owner recognised him and organised two extra seats for us,” Ghosh recounted.
 
 Shooting was challenging but the final scene was the trickiest since Puri had contacted herpes. “Baba had wanted to use a dummy arguing that since it would be a long shot, people wouldn’t understand the difference when the film would be shown on television. But Om had insisted that since it was Baba’s film, there was always a chance of it being shown on the big screen. Eventually, he shot the scene,” Sandip Ray said.
 
 Later on, Puri had featured in a story titled ‘Mayurkonthi Jelly’ in the television series titled “Satyajit Ray Presents”. “That was based on one of Baba’s adult science fictions starring Om, Anupam Kher and Tanuja,” Sandip Ray said.
 
 Just 15 days back, Puri had called up Sandip Ray trying to find out if there was any progress in the release of the DVD of his 1995 Hindi film titled “Target”. “He would often call up about this. In chaste Bengali, he would ask if anything could be done to get that DVD out since many hadn’t watched this movie of mine,” Ray Jr said. The film was shot in Odisa’s Dhenkanal where the mercury had shot up to a sweltering 40 degrees celsius. “Om would get along very well with all his crew members. He was extremely down-to-earth. He would wash his own clothes and never flaunted an ego of a celebrated actor,” Ray Jr pointed out.
 
 Actor Sreela Mazumdar, who was Puri’s co-star in three films including the 1982-film titled “Chokh”, too agrees. “I was just 18 and petrified about getting my Hindi diction right. He’d insist that I speak while he corrected my mistakes. Since I had played his wife, he would call me ‘gudiya bibi’,” she remembered.
 
 In 1983, the two acted together again in Shyam Benegal’s ‘Mandi’. “We’d travel in a bus to the location. During the journey, Annu Kapoor would copy Helen’s dance moves to entertain us. To add to spice, Om would look at Annu’s moves and say quip: ‘You need to lift your leg a little more to be like Helen!’ On the sets, however, it was serious business where Om would play a photographer who would try to capture that perfect shot of me trying to escape from the brothel,” said Mazumder, adding that she has also acted with him in a telefilm titled “Sowaser Gehu” and Shyam Benegel’s television series titled “Yatra” and the 1982 film titled “Arohan”. “He came across as a very warm person whenever we met. I remember while working in ‘Yatra’, I had spent a lot of time shooting in the train. I had boarded the train from Agra and had gone to Guwahati. The train had literally turned into our house,” she recounted.
 
 If Sreela’s connection with Puri was to do with Hindi cinema, there were others who had acted with him in the Bengali film titled “Sankranti”. The stars included Aparna Sen and Mohua Roy Chowdhury, among others. Prosenjit Chatterjee, who had played Puri’s son in this Moloy Mitra film, said, “It was my dream to share screen space with him. I had the maximum number of scenes with him and would learn every moment. While he was shooting in Tollywood, he made it seem as if he was part of our industry.”
 
 Dipankar De, another co-star from that film, remembers him as a meticulous actor who would insist on multiple rehearsals. “That’s because he came from a theatre background,” De recounted. Director Goutam Ghose too noticed this dedication when he had requested Puri to step into a small role when a local actor ditched Ghose during the shooting of “Paar”. “During ‘Paar’, I had selected a local actor from Bihar to play the mukhiya. But he developed cold feet. When I realised that he wouldn’t be able to act, I sent a telegram to Om. Without asking any questions on the role, Om took the next flight to come down,” Ghose recalled. In the village, Puri would spend more time with the locals than with the unit so that he could quickly pick up the dialect and body language. In two days flat, Puri was ready to play the role. “For ‘Patang’, I was shooting in Gaya and Om would often go missing for a while every day. Later, I learnt that he was going out to be with the locals,” he said. On being asked what set Puri apart as an actor, Ghose said, “He would mix with locals and pick up their dialects to ensure the performance became very real. Instead of being a flashy actor, Om was a credible actor. He truly epitomised that acting lies in the footpath,” Ghosh said.
 
 Having worked with both Naseeruddin Shah and Puri in the same film (“Paar”), how different did they seem as actors? “On the sets, they were like white sheets of paper on which the director could write. While Om was more verbose in his approach, Naseer would be quiet. But both have been curious actors who aimed for perfection with a positive sense of nervousness. With Om’s demise, I have also lost a dear friend,” Ghose said.
 
 When Swayze had expired in 2009, Om Puri had paid a fitting tribute to him saying: “He saw his father in me while I found a brother in Patrick. Today, I've lost my soulmate.”
 
 With Puri’s untimely death on Friday, cinema has lost one of its true disciples. Solace, if any, now lies in the fact that perhaps the “soulmates” – Swayze and Puri - will finally get to reunite in some other city of joy to discuss movies and more.
 
