For Singapore-based Malayali couple   and  , it is difficult to separate life and art. They are on their way to become stars in their own right with their rib-tickling web series  , which they write and co-star in.
The ‘sitcom’, regularly uploaded on their YouTube channel  , revolves around a fictional NRI couple —   — and the funny instances that happen to them. Each of the 15-minute episodes are based on “real-life incidents that every NRI couple could relate to” and the show is a hit, not just with Malayalis but also with those hailing from outside the State.
 
 The main intent of Sooraj, a director of a software company, and electronics engineer Ann for their creative venture was to “spread some happy vibes to the scattered Malayali community in Singapore”.
 “Our motto was to show the lighter side of life and make people realise that life is not complicated, if you take it the right way. Our videos serve as stress busters for us and we like to believe that it would at least make others’ mood better at the end of a tiring day,” says Sooraj.
 The couple began their creative innings in April 2015 with a spoof of a male version of Deepika Padukone’s video titled My Life, My Choice. They then progressed to dubsmash compilations titled   as well as a short video named Premam Hangover, which showed the after effect of watching Nivin Pauly’s hit film.
 “The reception of the videos gave us confidence to come out with another novel idea and that’s how Singapooram happened. The first two episodes were well received and that’s when we decided to include more characters,” says Sooraj, adding that their episodes have now garnered around 1.5 million views.
 
 So, how are the couple in real life? Ann says, “We take everything in life with a dose of humour, and this reflects in the episodes as well. For instance, in the episode Run Malayali Run that mocked at healthy eating, diet and exercise, there were a lot of funny incidents that were inspired by our own lives.”
 Working on the series also serves as a means to bond with family and friends better. Ann says, “My brother Don plays Ikkru and he along with Sooraj play pranks on me. This way we get to have the same fun in a distant land away from our country. Even our non-Malayali friends have acted in it. On the whole, we have a great time shooting the videos and also keeps us busy when we are not filming because we are planning the next episode.”
 On their future plans, Ann says, “Movies are our ultimate dream. We have already scripting a full length movie, which will be a compilation of the Singapooram sitcom.”
 The series, they say, has already provided them with the best award. “Last year, when we went to drop our parents at the Singapore airport, we met some of the viewers. They appreciated us in front of our parents. That was the most precious moment for us.”
 
