AHMEDABAD: Parking in the   is a major contention often leading to traffic congestion and fisticuffs. To tackle this, businessmen in the Walled City for the first time have joined hands to manage the problem and will deploy volunteers to  . The narrow lanes and poorly managed traffic in the Walled City has only added to the congestion and worsened traffic woes of citizens. Side by side, it has led to severe losses in business for merchants and businessmen.

 The initiative was taken by representatives of the Vepari Mahajan and Choksi Mahajan, who have independently made representations to the traffic police officials, the mayor and collector. Representatives of Cutlery Mahajan, a body of cutlery merchants in the Walled City, issued a circular last week, in support of the initiative.
 
 “Volunteers who are ready to spare half an hour during peak hours every day, will undergo special training which will be facilitated by the traffic department. They will also be given special uniforms with logos of the department,” said Lakshman Asnani, in the circular.
 
 Similarly, representatives of Choksi Mahajan in Manek Chowk took up the matter with mayor Gautam Shah, urging him to make AMTS i.e. public transport service free. “If public transport is easily available and free, people avoid using private vehicles and taking the trouble of driving through congested lanes. Without the support of civic authorities, this voluntary initiative won’t sustain for long,” said Piyush Bhansali, president, Choksi Mahajan.
 
 Even if there are 20 people at a given point in time to manage traffic, it will ease most woes, believe representatives of the  . “Thanks to traffic congestion, people have stopped visiting the Walled City completely. Most times it is so bad that even an ambulance cannot reach on time and we end up arranging for medical assistance by ourselves,” said Harshad Gilitwala, president, Vepari Mahajan, Ahmedabad.
 
 Owing to the traffic woes in Walled City areas such as Kalupur, Ratanpole, Gheekanta, Manek Chowk, Madhupura and Relief Road, merchants are facing business losses of upto 30%, according to stakeholders. Merchant bodies urged traffic department officials and civic authorities to create parking spaces in the Walled City.
 
 “We will soon make a representation to civic authorities and railway authorities for multi-level parking spaces near   and near Sarangpur bus stand, so that merchants whose shops and offices are nearby can safely park and use public transport from there,” added Gilitwala.
 
 Traffic department officials say they are mulling over the issue. “We have received a proposal from the merchants’ body. The suggestion is good and an extra hand to manage the traffic will always be beneficial. Representatives are yet to hold a meeting with us and we will provide the best possible help,” said A M Patel,  , B-Division.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Instead of giving a lukewarm response, the city traffic police and the civic body should help walled city residents when they willingly take a step forward to solve their own civic problems such as traffic chaos. This will not only empower citizens but also help evolve a culture of participation to find localized and meaningful solutions to civic problems — such as traffic jams, garbage, or law and order. 
 
