PUNE: A   written by Second Lieutenant Arun   — who was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra — to his   from the Basantar   during the 1971 Indo-Pak war and his peak cap of the National Defence Academy will now be a constant source of inspiration for cadets at the academy.

 Khetarpal’s younger brother Mukesh on Saturday handed over two letters, one written by Arun to his father and another by his Commanding Officer Lieutenant Colonel Hamid Singh to his family, and his   cap to the academy’s authorities.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone, Mukesh said, “These letters should be preserved and maintained well and the NDA will do so. Secondly and most importantly, these letters will become a constant source of inspiration for the cadets and young generation. Therefore, we handed them over to the academy.”
 
 Commenting on the contents of the letters, Mukesh said Arun’s Commanding Officer in his letter had written how fiercely he had fought against the enemy. Arun’s letter to my father was also a special one.
 
 Earlier, Mukesh, a management consultant in Delhi, was received by Commandant Air Marshal JS Kler at the academy. He first laid a wreath at the Hut of Remembrance, the memorial that enshrines and commemorates the sacrifices of all those alumni who laid down their lives in battlefields. Visiting the academy after a decade, Mukesh said, “It’s a proud feeling to be here and visiting his squadron (Foxtrot) and the parade ground named after him. It has given me a special feeling.” 
 
 The brave officer was born in Pune on October 14, 1950. His father Brigadier ML Khetarpal served in Corps of Engineers of the Indian Army. He joined the academy in June 1967. He was the Squadron Cadet Captain of the 38th course at the NDA. In June 1971, Khetarpal was commissioned in the 17 Poona Horse of the Armoured Corps of the Army.
 
 According to NDA’s records, during the 1971 Indo-Pak war, the regiment was affiliated to 54 Infantry Division. The 47th Infantry Brigade of the division was tasked to establish a bridgehead across Basantar river with Bravo Squadron of 17 Horse providing armour support.
 
 “In the ensuing battle, Second Lieutenant Khetarpal’s troop was ordered to reinforce Bravo squadron. A fierce tank to tank engagement followed in which 10 enemy tanks were destroyed. Of these, young Khetarpal accounted for five. Despite his tank having been hit by enemy fire, this gallant officer refused to withdraw and continued his relentless pursuit of the enemy. He died fighting when his tank was hit a second time. Second Lieutenant Khetarpal displayed inspiring qualities of leadership, tenacity and courage in the face of the enemy. For this exceptional valour, he was awarded Param Vir Chakra,” the NDA records state.
 
