NAGPUR: Two days after Nagpur University ‘indefinitely deferred’ a seminar on ‘Erosion of Indian Democracy: Challenges and Solutions’ where CPI (M) general secretary   was to be the chief guest,   came forth to hold the event on the same day and time at Deekshabhoomi. 

 “The programme would be organized by the department of history and political science of our college at NH Kumbhare auditorium on Saturday,” associate professor Gautam Kamble told TOI.
 
 College officials said the decision was made on Friday after they learnt that the   had cancelled the event. Even Yechury had told TOI that the organizers were planning to shift the event to Deekshabhoomi after NU vice-chancellor (VC) SP Kane cancelled it indefinitely “following threats from right wing organizations”. The programme was conceptualized by Pradeep Aglave, head of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Chair.
 
 Adding another twist to the controversy, the VC backtracked from his earlier statement and admitted that the event was deferred as neither did the organizers inform him nor followed due procedure. On Thursday, the VC had said the programme was being cancelled due to ‘law and order’ situation and also told the media that he was “not compelled to specify everything”.
 
 Following widespread criticism from the city’s academic and political circles and explanation sought by chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao over the episode, Kane was forthright in blaming organisers for the lapses.
 
 “Till Tuesday, I was unaware about any such event. When someone brought it to my notice, I enquired with the pro-VC, but even he was in the dark. It was only when I saw the invitation card on WhatsApp that I learnt about the event involving Yechury. As due procedure was not followed, I cancelled it on that day itself and issued show cause notice to Aglave.”
 
 About Aglave’s assertion that he had informed the VC about the event, Kane said oral discussion can’t be taken as consent and it should have been followed up with proper documentation.
 
 “If we would have allowed the programme, it would have set a wrong precedent and anyone could have approached us just a day before organizing events. Prior to publishing invitation card, written consent is a must. I’ve strictly warned Aglave against replicating such acts,” the VC said and refused to comment on how the loss of Rs1 lakh spent for the programme would be recovered.
 
 Earlier, a couple of delegations including those by AAP, led by Jammu Anand and   met Kane and requested him to reconvene the event as early as possible. He assured them to fulfil their demand.
 
 Kane also refuted allegations that he was under pressure from right wing organizations like RSS and ABVP to cancel the event. “Since it was our internal matter, I didn’t want it to be publicized. But after reading media reports, I decided to reveal the truth. Another reason for deferring the event was that an important Senate meeting on budget was scheduled on Saturday followed by felicitation programme of   coordinator Bhau Dayedar, where I was invited as the chief guest. It would have been impossible for me to attend all the events,” he said.
 
