VARANASI: On the fourth day of filing of  , 30 candidates   on Tuesday. 

 From Pindra seat, Babu Lal of BSP, Shyamlal Singh of CPI, Deepak of Janwadi Party Socialist and Independent Sriprakash Mishra filed nominations. Tribhuvan Ram of BSP, Shashikant of Ambedkar Samaj Party and Vidya Devi of Bahujan Mukti Party filed papers for Ajgara (SC) seat. From Shivpur constituency, Anand of SP, Anil Rajbhar of BJP, Budhu Ram of Gandhi Ekta Party, Independent candidate Ramchandra and Indrakant Sharma of Rashtriya Vikas Manch filed nominations. At Rohaniya, Sangeeta of Maulik Adhikar Party filed nomination.
 
 Sujit Kumar of BSP, Independent Subrat Kaushik, Vivya Kumar of Rashtriya Lok Dal, Abdul Samad Ansari of Congress and Vinod Kumar of Navjan Kranti Party filed nomination for   seat. From Varanasi City South, Vimlesh Kumar Sharma of Maulik Adhikar Party filed papers. For Varanasi Cantt seat, Ajay Mukherjee of CPI, Chandan of Maulik Adhikar Party, Shatrughan of Adarshvadi Congress, Independents of Ganesh Shankar Chaturvedi and Satyaprakash Srivastava, Satish Kumar of Samta Samajwadi Congress Party and Ajay Kumar Singh of Samajwadi Janata Party filed nominations. From Sevapuri, Mahendra Kumar Pandey of BSP, Mahendra Kumar Chaubey (Independent), Shyamlal Maurya of CPI(M) and Akhilesh of Lok Dal filed nominations.
 
 On the third day on Monday, 23 candidates had filed nominations while one candidate had filed nomination on the second day. So far 54 candidates have filed nominations in Varanasi. 
 
 In   district, as many as 11 candidates from five assembly constituencies filed nominations on Tuesday. The candidates who filed nominations included Asha Kumar Patel of AD(UP), Independent Manish Singh, both from Mirzapur seat, Ramesh Chand of SSP, Rajesh Kumar Pandey of Pragatisheel Manav Samaj Party, Independent Rajesh Kumar Maurya and Hari Shankar of Bahujan Mukti Party from Majhwa seat, Awdhesh Kumar Singh Patel of SSP and Arvind Kumar of CPI(ML) from Marihan, Sharda Prasad Vaidya of Bharatiya Republican Party, Sarvesh Kumar of AD(UP) from Chunar seat and Dharmaraj of CPI(M) from Chhanvey seat. 
 
 In Chandauli district, Tilakdhari Bind of BSP from Mughalsarai and Prabhu Narayan Yadav of SP from Sakaldiha constituency filed nominations.
 
 
