HYDERABAD: The excellence of   in academics notwithstanding there was a time when private companies and individual employers chose not to recruit students graduating from the university. In fact, they did not keep it a secret. The 'Situations Vacant' columns in newspapers carried job advertisements with a specific note: "Graduates of Osmania University need not apply". It was in early 1970s following the violent agitation for separate Telangana, which began in 1969, that recruiters used to think twice before selecting candidates passing out of one of the prestigious institutions of higher learning in the world. 

 Old-timers recall that the "no Osmania graduates syndrome" continued for a few years till the embers of the separate Telangana state died down. The university soon bounced back after the Emergency in 1975, and today some of the top corporate houses including multinational firms queue up for campus recruitments with a hefty pay package. Incidentally, students of Osmania University had played a leading role for separate Telangana state right from 1948 when the princely state of Hyderabad ceased to exist. The agitations in 1969-71 and 2009-13 were led from the front by OU students. While academic year was not affected during 2009-13, students had lost one full year during the 1969 stir. Since the agitation in 1969 was marred by violence, recruiters were wary of the candidates. 
 
 Even as the Telangana agitation was picking up and private companies unwilling to provide employment, the Central government came out with a postal stamp in March 1969 in recognition of the unique contribution of Osmania University to educational and social development. The university deserves another postal stamp to mark its centenary. Apart from arts and sciences, Osmania University was among the few institutions of higher learning to introduce engineering courses. When introduced the engineering degree was of four-year course. The duration of the course was increased to five years and later it was reduced once again to four years, says Guduru Satyanarayana, who joined the   in 1966. 
 
 "There were short-term courses for recruitment of engineers those days," recalls Satyanarayana, also the executive secretary of the Alumni Association of Osmania University.
 
  He says engineering was first taught in Urdu medium and later in English. Senior professors from the   and other top universities were included in the OU faculty in those days. The university hostels and administration building needs modernisation. 
 
 "There has been no improvement in the condition of hostels in the last 50 years. The quality of life on the campus needs to be improved for better academic results and pleasure of learning," suggests Satyanarayana, hoping that the situation will improve once the OU gets about 400 crore to 500 crore as Central funds during the centenary year. 
 
 
