

 And it does this at a time when the Pahlaj Nihalani-led Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has refused to certify the film 'Lipstick Under My Burkha', (calling it ‘lady oriented’ and having ‘contanious sexual content’) and 'Ka Bodyscapes' (because it glorifies homosexual relationship). But even as the film industry locks horns with the CBFC over the censorship and freedom of expression issue, it is plays like 'Samajswasthya' or the choreographic performance Queen-size that re-instil our faith in the power of expression and the need to have complete freedom of it. 
 
  
 
 
 'Samajswasthya' features actor   in the role of RD Karve, a visionary who advocated the need of family planning and sex education in the country, as early as 1927. Despite providing helpful advices and information through the magazine, Karve was summoned to court thrice during his lifetime (and once after his death as well), under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which prohibits the ‘sale, distribution and possession of obscene books, drawings etc’. 
 
  
  
 The play also shows how intolerance towards rationalist thinkers was prevalent during the pre-independence era, prompting one to ask if we’ve actually evolved as a society over the years? A similar case in point was made by Mandeep Raikhy through 'Queen-size'. The choreographic performance, which was held in December last year and was based on an article written by Nishit Saran circa 1999, had dissent towards Section 377 of the IPC written all over it. Speaking to us then, Mandeep had said, “Sixteen years after the article was published, its content is still valid.” The same stands true for Samajswasthya and numerous other plays that dare to question the orthodox and ill-informed society.
 
 
 
 Kulkarni, who has effortlessly brought Karve alive on stage, is of the opinion that even today we refuse to acknowledge scientific explanations and instead, choose to stick to ‘traditional knowledge’. “Science has grown by leaps and bounds but we, as a society, haven’t. We base our thoughts and explanations on emotions and not science,” says Kulkarni. Ask him about 'Samajswasthya’s relevance in today’s times and he says, “It is as relevant today as it was when Karve was alive. Freedom of expression and the freedom to question has been curbed in today’s times. It was exactly this reason why Karve was taken to court. People who ask questions are called arrogant, those who try to explain things logically or oppose established norms are beaten up. Rational thinkers have no place in the country today. Their fate is sealed like that of Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare and others.” 
 
  
  
 Stressing on the need for people to understand and evolve according to time, the team of 'Samajswasthya' refuses to be bogged down owing to the current situation in the country. “Just because some people are opposing rational thoughts doesn’t mean we will stop. On the contrary, more such works need to come up so that the prevailing sentiment in the country turns around for the better,” shares Kulkarni. A brilliant line in the play speaks about how the society will soon start accepting mythology as history. Another one tells us how a large number of people have become mental slaves to dissemination of ‘knowledge’ from goons of religion. To stop that from happening further, more such works need to be staged – it’s the need of the hour.
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 Raghunath Dhondo Karve, the eldest son of Maharshi Dhondo Keshav Karve, resigned from the post of professor at Wilson College in Mumbai after the authorities asked him to stop writing ‘obscene articles’ for Samajswasthya magazine. 
 
  
  
 RD Karve was arrested thrice during his lifetime under Section 292 of the IPC for publishing ‘obscene’ books. The first time, it was an article, the second was his reply to a reader’s letter and the third was an advertisement in Samajswasthya that resulted in his arrests. “Interestingly, another case was lodged against him after his death too. The government didn’t even know that the man was no more,” informs Pethe.
  
  
  
 In 'Samajswasthya', Karve spoke openly about sexual urges, masturbation, premarital sex, same-sex love and also called it alright for a married woman to indulge in pleasurable activities with multiple partners so long as sexually-transmitted diseases and childbirth is prevented. A visionary, Karve and his wife Malati also ran a birth control clinic, the first one in India.
  
  
  
 
