BHOPAL: The state government has decided to build underpasses and subways for safety of wild animals on train tracks that pass through national parks and sanctuaries in the state. In the past, The government also approved development works in the parks, including construction of third rail line in Ratapani sanctuary near Bhopal.

 “We want to evolve a system wherein wildlife does not get affected even when roads and railway lines are built through national parks and sanctuaries. We have approved a few development works in Satpura Tiger Reserve, Son Ghadiyal sanctuary and Ratapani sanctuary keeping in mind safety and conservation of wildlife,” said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at a meeting of state wildlife board on Monday.
 
 Chouhan said the state achieved another success as two tiger reserves Kanha and Satpura were awarded in the Third Asian Ministerial Conference, New Delhi for wildlife management. 
 
 “As per the management plan, five new wild life rescue squads were formed in the state. This takes the number of rescue squads to 15. Wild animals and herbivores damaging crops in revenue areas were caught and released in reserved forest areas,” said the chief minister.
 
 The board meeting also informed that government cleared a few proposals to shift villages in the reserved forest areas. After the rehabilitation, the forest land would be converted into revenue land. A series of development works have also been approved in national parks and sanctuaries, he said.
 
 The government cleared construction of third rail line passing through Ratapani sanctuary from Barkheda to Budhni. It approved the proposal of land acquisition for partial doubling of broad gauge rail line project passing from Sontalai to Bagratawa in Satpura Tiger Reserve.
 
 The board approved construction of   bridge on new rail line passing through Rewa-Sidhi-Singrauli in Son Ghadiyal sanctuary. Doubling and electrification of   rail line in   was also cleared.
 
 The government will speed up construction of Nandakheda to Omkara route in Seoni sanctuary, building road in Son Chiriya (Great Indian Bustard) sanctuary in Ghatigaon, Son Ghadiyal sanctuary, road under PM Sadak Yojana in Satpura Tiger Reserve and a bridge in National Chambal sanctuary.
 
 “We have taken adequate measures to conserve the flora and fauna, wild life in these protected areas. The well-being of animals is a key concern and areas where underpass is necessary, it will be layered with natural soil so that they resemble animal habitat,” said a senior official of the forest department.
 
