KOLKATA: A 42-year-old man was wheeled in and out of three government and one private hospital in six hours after his left hand was crushed in an accident on Monday afternoon. He finally underwent a surgery at a private hospital off EM Bypass on Tuesday morning. His left arm had to be amputated.

  was hanging from the footboard of a minibus when his left hand got stuck in the roadside iron railings while the bus was speeding past Bhawani Bhawan. Singha lost balance and fell off the bus. He realized his arm was crushed as it was hanging loosely.
 
 Cops took Singha to   within 15 minutes. “When I arrived at SSKM, his hand was bandaged but blood was oozing out. The doctor said there were multiple fractures but they could not perform surgery as there was neither a bed nor a surgeon,” said Jolly Singha, Singha’s wife.
 
 Since Singha has an ESI card, he was rushed to Manicktala ESI Hospital. But a doctor refused admission saying they did not have the infrastructure. Singha’s next stop was NRS, where he was “advised” by doctors to “come back tomorrow” since he was already late.
 
 “A relative then suggested that we should take our patient to a private hospital. So, we came to  . But there again, a doctor checked the wound and said they did not have the surgeons to operate the wound. One of them called RN Tagore Hospital but even they allegedly did not have the surgeons,” said Samir Raha, Singha’s brother-in-law.
 
 Singha was wheeled into Medical around 10pm. A doctor got him admitted and was finally operated upon on Tuesday morning. “It was already late. We tried our best to save his arm but could not. His condition is now stable,” said an official at the hospital.
 
 TOI tried to contact all the hospitals where Singha was taken to on Monday. ESI Hospital superintendent Mayukh Roy said they didn’t have plastic surgery facility. Superintendents of SSKM, NRS and Mercy Hospital did not take calls.
 
 Police have seized the bus and arrested the driver, booking him for rash and negligent driving.
 
