LUDHIANA: A high drama was witnessed during a marriage function at a restaurant at Sat Pal Mittal road (famously knows as Malhar road) after a woman, claiming to be wife of the groom, created ruckus and stopped the ceremony on Saturday.

 The woman thrashed the groom in the middle of the road outside the marriage venue, while claiming that he was getting married to another woman without divorcing her. The man, she alleged, was getting married to another woman, 18 years younger to him.
 
 Amid chaos, Sarabha Nagar police reached the venue and took the groom, his relatives and the woman to the police station. Later the groom, who runs an orchestra group, claimed that he had already divorced his wife and had a proof.
 
 Eyewitnesses said at around 1:30 pm, the groom along with the guests reached the banquet hall for the marriage ceremony. They said suddenly, a woman in her 30s claiming herself to be his wife appeared and started arguing with him. When the man claimed that he did not know her, the woman along with her parents started beating him up, they added.
 
 The man even tried to flee, but could not do so as the woman got hold of him and punched him. Eyewitnesses said the woman and her family members also thrashed the girl, a resident of Shimlapuri, who was to get married with the man.
 
 Later the woman told police that she had got married to the man 14 years ago and the couple had a 13-year-old son. Woman’s brother Pawan Kuamr alleged that both were living separately as the man used to beat her up.
 
 “He was unemployed and used to thrash my sister for money. So we took brought her back to our home and set a condition that we would send her back to him only after he starts earning,” he said. “We have never expected that he would solemnize a second marriage. We came to know about his marriage two days ago, when someone has showed us the invitation card,” he added.
 
 SHO Sarabha Nagar police station, sub-inspector Mohan Lal confirmed that there was a dispute over the second marriage. “The police will prepare a report and send it to the court for further action,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, family of the girl who was to be married said the groom had told them that he had divorced his wife. He had told us that he was living separately for the past seven years and had also shown us the documents on the divorce,” a family member said.
 
