PUNE: About 30 teachers from   in Bibvewadi observed a   on Saturday for not receiving their salaries for the last three months.

 However, the school management said the salaries could not be paid due to non-payment of fees by many students and that the arrears would be cleared by March-end.
 
 “The last salary we received for a full month was in October. For November, we were paid only half-a-month’s salary and were promised that the remaining amount would be credited soon. And, from December to February, we have not received anything,” said a teacher, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Another teacher said, “We joined this year, but the same problem was there last year too when many of our seniors faced the issue. Some teachers did not take part in the strike fearing disappointing the management. Some teachers’ children are studying in the same school and they don’t want their children to be victimized.”
 
 During a meeting between the administration and the teachers a week ago, the latter were promised that half of their salaries would be credited by Friday. The management had also promised to pay the remaining amount within another week, the teacher said.
 
 “But no money has been credited to our accounts. Even the cheques they gave to some of us have bounced,” another teacher said.
 
 Vinay Aranha, one of the owners of the school, said, “Fourteen teachers were on protest on Saturday. Salaries for the month of December and January have been delayed, but the payment for February is to be made by March 10. Hence, it cannot be clubbed with that of the other two months. We had a discussion with the teachers a week ago and we had told them that we will credit half of the salary within two days and the rest will be credited by March-end and they had agreed to it.”
 
 Aranha said the problem arose as the local management had not followed up with several students who had not paid their fees. This resulted in non-payment of salaries as income from fees is the main source of salaries. “I checked with the local management which told me that a month’s salary has already been credited to the teachers’ accounts,” he added.
 
