KOLKATA: After a mini-truck driver knocked down a man--apparently, dishevelled and out of sorts--on   on Monday night, locals rushed to the spot. But no one bothered to alert the cops, in spite of the Tollygunge police station being a stone's throw away. No one even seemed keen on going into the trouble of ferrying the grievously injured victim to hospital; when the accused driver offered to do the needful, everyone apparently readily agreed. But the driver, after a couple of kilomet res, dumped the unconscious man beside a drain near Lake flyover off Prince Anwar Shah Road, leaving him to die.

 Unattended and without even first-aid, the 36-year-old victim, who was in rehabilitation trying to kick his drug addiction, died early on Tuesday.
 
 Later identified as Sk Salim, a resident of   in Akra, the victim would often visit the locality near the Tollygunge police station as an NGO there was trying to rehabilitate him and also solve his dispute with his wife. Around 10pm on the fateful night, Salim was trying to cross the road when the minitruck hit him from behind. The loud screech drew several passersby to the spot but none reportedly bothered to alert the cops or take Salim to hospital.“When the driver offered to take him to hospital, everyone agreed. The police was not alerted even as the driver left with Salim,“ the police said.
 
 It was during its regular rounds of the streets that the   police station patrol team learnt about the accident.But when they checked with nearby hospitals, including M R Bangur, Sishu Mangal and SSKM, they could not trace the victim. Finally around 6.30am on Tuesday , residents near   close to the Lake flyover informed the cops about an accident victim lying on the road. “We took him to M R Bangur Hospital where he was declared dead,“ said an officer.
 
 The search for the accused has so far proved futile. “An FIR has been registered. A probe is on, based on a vague registration number we have got,“ said an officer. DC (south)   said, “We are finding out the sequence of events from Monday night to Tuesday morning to build the case.“
 
