LUCKNOW: The   area in the sleepy outskirts of the city turned into war-zone as a posse of policemen swooped down at a single storey house among a cluster of semi-finished residential premises at the far end of   in   on Tuesday afternoon.

 Resident’s ran for cover as cops assembled around the four-room structure and action grew intense as a number of police vehicles reached the site carrying a squad of commandos in black uniforms jumping off to take position. As men in uniform tried to target the entrance of the house, curious onlookers peeping through half-closed windows watched with bated breath.
 
 The suspense grew with time as police tried to enter the premises. For one hour, senior officials including IG   Aseem Arun had reached the site supervising the operations. As word went around that it was an anti-terrorist operation, locals started gathering outside their houses to see what was happening. Shortly, hundreds of locals had gathered around the house despite repeated appeals of the policemen to stay away.
 
 “The house is owned by Malihabad resident Badshah but he rarely visits the place,” said Qayyum (35), who resides in the house adjacent to the one targeted by police. He said the house had been lying vacant till three months ago before a group of youths moved in. “They usually kept to themselves and rarely spoke to anyone,” said Asif, local trader residing in Haji colony.
 
 The discussion is disrupted by a sound like a gunshot. Police had lobbed a tear gas shell into the porch of the house leading to a series of rooms in the end. As police tried to force into the premises, the crowd moved for a closer look. As the crowd grew, more police force was called in to keep the mob away.
 
 “TV channels say there are terrorists in the house,” announced a youth who had just joined the crowd. As the firing stopped, the commandos climbed up the terrace scaling the unplastered brick wall.
 
 The commando operation continued as policemen evacuated houses in the neighbourhood. By now, commando teams were at the entrance of the room from where the shots were being fired. They lobbed a number of tear gas shells and chilli grenades to smoke out the suspected terrorist, but in vain.
 
 Finally, a machine was brought in along with a heavy hammer drill and policemen on the terrace drilled a hole into the room through which some more chilli grenades were lobbed in and the suspected terrorist opened fire. Once the firing was over, the commandos broke into the room and found it empty but with fresh blood stains. A search led police to another room connected to it. By now the police were sure that two people were inside the room and had suffered gunshot wounds. It was however not clear if the suspects were shot by a police bullet or they had shot themselves. The operation was underway till midnight. 
 
 
