AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch claims that the 1,438 guineafowls culled after the bird flu scare in Ahmedabad were all healthy when they had left Allahabad. Police are now investigating the source of the bird flu outbreak that happened in Ahmedabad, and will visit Mumbai’s Crawford Market to find the source of the guinea fowls which were brought to city in December by an  ,  . Those birds have tested positive for bird flu.

 Top crime branch officials said they will go to the bottom of the bird flu scare. “The samples from birds found at Vastral were taken on January 3, and they were culled on the night of January 12. We are probing why it took about nine days for the authorities to respond,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Sources from crime branch claim that in December, Harmesh Bhatt of Asha Foundation had brought some guineafowls from Mumbai. “Seven of these birds were found to have bird flu virus and were among the first birds to be culled after the bird flu scare,” said an investigator.
 
 “After questioning the Memnagar NGO’s owner  , and Bhatt, we will be sending our team to Mumbai’s Crawford market” said a crime branch official. He added, “We have to trace the source from where birds were brought to Mumbai before being sent to Ahmedabad.” 
 
 Crime branch sources claim that there is strong possibility that the 155 guinea fowls kept at Sarva Dharma Rakshak Seva Trust in Memnagar could have contracted the infection from Asha Foundation where they had been temporarily kept with similar birds brought from Mumbai. 
 
 Banarasi Sonkar who had come with the birds from Allahabad has produced the health certificate issued by an Allahabad veterinarian, said crime branch sources. The certificate clearly states that the birds were perfectly healthy.
 
 “Moreover, if the birds were H5N1 virus infected, they would have died within seven days of contracting the virus . In this case, Sonkar had left Allahabad on December 20, 2016 and had taken about eight breaks to feed the birds before they reached Ahmedabad on January 2,” said an official.
 
 “If the birds were infected from Allahabad they would have died midway,” he added. 
 
 “Jasmin Shah, who is running the NGO in Memnagar, the place where the birds were culled on the night of January 12, is at present in the isolation ward. We are going to question him and Harmesh Bhatt of Asha Foundation in Hathijan,” said a crime branch official.
 
 
