SANGRUR: The Sangrur administration on Friday put off the auction of 16 acres of village common land reserved for Dalits in   after two groups clashed in the presence of police, leaving two  

 Police have booked five persons for the clash.
 
 The situation got tense when Pal Singh, one of the prime accused in the murder of a woman in 2016 in which 32 persons were booked, appeared at the auction venue, promoting protests by the a section of Dalits, who alleged that despite being named in the FIR, he was neither being arrested nor granted bail by the court.
 
 In the fight that followed, Pal Singh and   got injured and were taken to the civil hospital. The district administration immediately called off the auction.
 
 DSP Ajay Pal Singh said that they had booked five persons under Section 323 (causing hurt) of the IPC.
 
 Jhaloor had remained in the midst of a controversy over auction of the reserved land as Dalit groups had been at the loggerheads over auctioning of the common land. A section of the Dalits has been demanding that only cultivators should be given the land, while dummy candidates from the community nominated by the upper caste men should not be allowed to participate in the auctioning process.
 
 It was learnt that the groups came to blows despite the deployment of a huge police force to prevent any untoward incident in the village. The Dalits also questioned as to how a person booked for murder was allowed to participate in the auction process.
 
 Last year too, Jhaloor had remained tense following clashes amongst the Dalits and upper-caste men over the auctioning of land. Dalit woman   was injured in the clash and later succumbed to injuries in PGI. A murder case had been registered against 32 men out of which only five have been arrested till date.
 
 While 11 farmer organisations had formed the Jhaloor Jabar Virodhi Committee in support of the Dalits, BKU ( ) had extended support to upper-caste men alleging that committee members were deliberately creating division in the village.
 
 The district administration said that auctioning of the reserved land would be rescheduled.
 
 
