PATIALA: After denotifying various stretches on the state highways to circumvent the   (SC) ban on liquor vends, the Punjab government has now asked the public works department ( ) to identify sections of the national highways (NHs) that pass through various cities and towns which could also be denotified in accordance to norms and converted into other district roads (ODRs). The department has already sent a report to the state government.

 According to senior officials in the PWD, the state government had shot a letter to the department on Monday asking each district head to furnish details about the national highways passing through their respective areas that could be denotified to provide relief to liquor traders in Punjab. "The department was supposed to collect and furnish details, and submit a detailed report with the office of chief secretary by Wednesday, which has been done," the official said. 
 
 As per the letter, the government asked the officials to send proposals about the sections of the national highways passing through cities and towns, which could be denotified by taking into consideration that those have alternate routes which were in good shape to facilitate the movement of heavy traffic. 
 
 The letter stated that such roads would be converted into ODRs. Once identified, the state government would prepare a case and put it up before the Union ministry of road transport and highways headed by Nitin Gadkari for the final decision as it was the prerogative of the Centre to decide on change of nomenclature of the NHs, sources in the PWD said. Punjab government, on Tuesday, denotified 12 stretches of bypass roads on the state highway. 
 
 Sources said it was a difficult decision to make for the state government, which was a burden with financial liabilities of over Rs 1.76 lakh crore as maintenance and relaying of denotified roads would then become obligation of the state. However, chief minister Amarinder Singh was of the view that every step should be taken to protect the state's hotel industry, which has been largely affected by the SC verdict, sources said. 
 
 As per official records, there are 11 national highways that pass through Punjab with a total length of 1,553kmDelhi-Amritsar (NH-1): It connects Delhi and Attari border, and passes through three most populated cities of Punjab - Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar - and towns of Rajpura, Sirhind, Khanna, Doraha, Sahnewal, Phillaur, Goraya, Phagwara, Kartarpur, Raiya, Beas and Attari. 
 
 Jalandhar-Jammu (NH-1A): It connects Punjab with the Jammu city in Jammu and Kashmir and leads to Srinagar and Uri, with total length 663km, and out of this 108km passes through Pathankot, Dasuya, and Mukerian in Punjab.Delhi-Fazilka (NH-10): It starts from Delhi and goes up to India-Pakistan border near Fazilka. The highway enters into Punjab near Mandi Dabwali, Haryana, and then connects to Malout and Fazilka.
 
 The total length of this road is 403km, out of which 72km is in Punjab.Pathankot-Bikaner (NH-15): It is the longest national highway in Punjab covering 350km in the state and connecting Pathankot, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Faridkot and Abohar cities of Punjab, and then leads to   and Bikaner in Rajasthan.
 
 Pathankot-Mandi (NH-20): Only 10km of this road lies in Punjab and rest is in Himachal Pradesh connecting Mandi town of HP with Pathankot.
 
 Chandigarh-Ropar-Manali (NH-21): The road starts from Chandigarh and goes up to Manali, an important tourist destination in Himachal. The main towns of Punjab on this route are Kharar, Ropar and Anandpur Sahib. The length of this road in the state is 67km. NH-95 joins with this road near Kharar.
 
 Ambala-Kalka-Shimla (NH-22): In the context of Punjab, it is called the Chandigarh-Ambala highway. Although few kilometres from Chandigarh to Zirakpur are not part of this national highway. Dera Bassi and Zirakpur are located on the 32km stretch of this NH.
 
 Chandigarh-Bathinda (NH-64): NH-64 is another important road that connects Chandigarh with Rajpura, Patiala, Sangrur and Bathinda. The road ends at Mandi Dabwali in Haryana. This highway is entirely in Punjab and its length is 256km.
 
 Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur-Mandi (NH-70): Jalandhar is connected with Hoshiarpur through this NH. The road covers 50km in Punjab.
 
 Jalandhar-Sangrur (NH-71): This highway joins Jalandhar with Sangrur via Nakodar, Moga and Barnala and its length in Punjab is 130km.
 
 Chandigarh-Ludhiana-Ferozepur (NH-95): This highway connects Chandigarh with Ludhiana. A few kilometres from Chandigarh to Kharar are part of NH-21, so really NH-95 is from Kharar to Ferozepur. Important cities and towns on this road are Samrala, Ludhiana, Jagraon, Moga and Ferozepur.
 
