Childhood obesity has increased in recent years. Most common causes are genetic factors,  , unhealthy eating patterns, or a combination of these factors. Although weight problems run in families, not all children with a family history of obesity will be overweight. The most important factors underlying the obesity epidemic are the current opportunities for food intake coupled with limited energy expenditure. The consequences of childhood and adolescent obesity include earlier puberty and menarche in girls, type 2 diabetes and increased incidence of the metabolic syndrome in youth and adults, and obesity in adulthood. These changes are associated with cardiovascular disease.

 In one study, nearly one third of children and adolescents consumed fast food; they ate greater number of calories with a greater caloric density food. The researcher claimed that such food pattern would lead to an additional 57 kcal in the daily diet of the average child and could account for 6 lb weight gain per child per year. Consumption of sweetened beverages and the frequency or large portions of energy-dense foods would increase the risk. Fast-food restaurants have a relative abundance of energy-dense foods and sweetened beverages. Consumption of low energy dense foods and increased calcium intake has also been associated with a lower risk of obesity.
 
 The likelihood of an obese child becoming an obese adult increases with the age of the child. Multiple studies have shown the association of pediatric and adolescent obesity with obesity in adults. Almost half of overweight adults were overweight as children. Previous findings from the Bogalusa Heart Study (BHS) revealed that childhood overweight was an important determinant of cardiovascular risk factors in young adulthood. Thus, prevention as well as treatment of overweight and obesity in adulthood necessitates the detection of children who are likely to become overweight as adults.
 
 It is necessary to teach children to follow healthy eating habits and teaching importance of physical exercise since childhood. Encourage healthy eating by increasing serving of fruits & vegetables. Buy fewer soft drinks & high-fat, high-calorie snacks, making sure child eats breakfast every day. Today's healthy child is tomorrow's healthy adult!
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
