Children are fast learners, and can quickly absorb a lot of new information within a short span of time. Since their brains are so malleable, they can be taught nearly anything. A solid foundation of knowledge during childhood is nearly impossible to shake, and will stand the child in good stead later on in life. Similarly, a strong foundation with regard to health should be laid early in children, so that they can reap the benefits of good health later on in life. While most children are born with hearts in a near perfect condition, it takes some effort to maintain it that way throughout life. 

 A scientific statement, recently published in Circulation, highlights the behaviors and indications of good cardiovascular health in children. Use of tobacco products, maintenance of a healthy body weight, adequate physical activity, nutritious food intake, and normal levels of cholesterol, blood sugar and blood pressure are factors that are used to determine the health of the heart in children. An analysis of data from a 2007-2008   Survey revealed that most children scored poorly on most of the health factors listed above.
 
 Smoking was common in the older age groups. Only blood pressure measures were ideal in most children. These results highlight the need to inculcate heart-healthy habits in children early on, so that adulthood is not a burden with respect to heart disease. 
 
  In particular, almost all children did not fare well on measures of diet, which mainly comprised of  . Most children were unable to meet the recommended 60 minutes of physical activity to maintain  . Children between six and 11 years of age were more active than adolescents between 16 and 19 years of age. Body weight was another measure with disappointing results, with obesity ranging from 10% in two to five year olds to 27% in 12 to 19 year olds. 
 
 “Morning shows the day” is an old English proverb which can be extrapolated to the lifespan of a human - a healthy child is more likely to lead a healthy adult life. It is also clear that obesity begets diabetes which leads to heart attacks. However in India the layman definition of “healthy child” actually means an obese child and is the result of forced excessive eating (the main culprit) and lack of exercise. Type 2 diabetes which usually occurs after 40 yrs and is commoner in obese is now occurring with increasing frequency in children. Unfortunately a slim child is often misinterpreted as a malnourished child. Hence it is important to inculcate amongst parents and society at large that a healthy child is actually a slim but active child and not a “plump child”. Hence the motto for children should be – “stay slim to avoid diabetes and heart disease”.
 
 
 
 
