VELLORE: A fire broke out at the processing unit of a company in Phase III of   in Ranipet in the early hours of Monday. The fire that was noticed at 5.15am was raging still in the afternoon.

 The fire broke out in the processing unit of   Enviro Protection and Infrastructure Limited. It spread fast and engulfed the raw materials and chemicals stocked in the processing unit.
 
 Fire and rescue services personnel from Ranipet and surrounding areas had been fighting for more than nine hours to bring the blaze under control. “We have been fighting for over several hours to contain it from spreading to neighbouring units. It will subside only after the raw waste burn out,” a fire brigade said.
 
 Six fire tenders were engaged in containing the fire. 
 
 District collector S A Raman, who inspected the unit, said, “I have instructed the local body to supply water in tankers to help the fire brigades to contain the fire. The civic body is doing so. Since the unit used to stock chemical waste, the fire brigades are using sand to contain the residual fire.”
 
 Billowing smoke caused breathing difficulty to people in the area. The collector said the pollution control board had been instructed to conduct an air pollution test.
 
 The unit is manufacturing alternative fuel for cement factories by converting waste from paint and solvent. Its licence -- issued on February 28, 2013 -- is valid till February 28, 2018. 
 
 “We have been running the unit after getting proper permission from the pollution control board. We have also following all safety norms. We don’t know the cause for the fire accident,” said an administrative staff of the company. Damage to the property was yet to be ascertained.
 
 Except a security guard, there were no other employees when the fire broke out. “If there had been employees, they would have contained the fire,” he said. However, he declined to reveal the names and quantity of chemicals stocked in the unit.
 
 According to the details found in the notice board of the company, it has been handling chemicals such as ferrous sulphate, hydrated lime, poly aluminum chloride, polyelectrolyte and diesel. The company has a capacity of manufacturing 50 metric tonne of alternative fuel per day.
 
 Officials from revenue and pollution control board rushed to the unit and conducted an inquiry. A team from the National Disaster Response Force also reached the spot and reviewed the situation.
 
 
