KOLKATA: The   (NGT), Eastern Zone Bench, on Friday, expressed concern about the nearly three-km stretch of   that has disappeared from the surface in the Narendrapur-Sonarpur-Rajpur in South 24-Parganas. While directing the West Bengal unit of the National Mission for Clean Ganga Authority (NMCGA) to bring the 75-km Adi Ganga under the National Mission for Clean Ganga, the bench made it clear that measures will have to be taken for the river’s rejuvenation. NMCGA will now have to find out the missing links of the river.

 “This is an important development. The court has finally recognised the Adi Ganga originally flowed to Gangasagar. Hopefully, earnest efforts will be made to restore the river,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, who filed the application for clean up the river. On Friday, he was appointed amicus cureae by the NGT to help the bench in restoring not only the Adi Ganga but other water bodies in and around Kolkata like the Bagjola and Keshtopur canals.
 
 Historians and river experts believe that Adi (ancient) Ganga was the main channel of the Ganges till the Hooghly came into being. The Adi Ganga flowed from Kolkata through Garia, Boral, Rajpur, Harinavi and Baruipur before reaching Gangasagar. In the 1770s, William Tolly supervised the dredging of a 15km channel between Garia and Samukpota to connect the Adi Ganga to   that flows through the Sunderbans. This stretch came to be known as Tolly’s Nullah.
 
 Encroachments along the banks of the Adi Ganga and unchecked constructions have severely affected the natural flow of the Adi Ganga. After disappearing for a few km, the river re-emerges near Suryapur in Joynagar and joins Piyali river which flows through the Sunderbans before flowing into the sea.
 
 The NGT had earlier passed several directions on the   (KMC) and Kolkata Police to clean up the river banks. On Friday, the KMC submitted before the bench of Justice S P Wangdi and Prof P C Mishra that they had removed the illegal cowsheds and piggeries from the banks. The bench then directed the Kolkata police commissioner to enhance surveillance and patrolling in the area.
 
