LUCKNOW: More children in UP's backward towns go to school compared to those in the capital and surrounding towns.

 Uttar Pradesh's Devipatan division, which includes the under-developed districts of Shravasti, Bahraich, Balrampur and Gonda, saw more children attending school than capital Lucknow.
 
 Only 7% children in the age group of 6-14 years in Devipatan division are not enrolled in schools. In Lucknow division, which includes Hardoi, Kheri, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Sitapur and Unnao, 8.2% children do not go to school. The findings were part of the 11th Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2016, released on Wednesday .ASER is the largest household survey in rural India on the status of children's schooling and basic learning.The survey is facilitated by NGO Pratham. When it comes to children of classes VI-VIII who can solve division problems, Lucknow is the second worst performer after Devipatan. In Lucknow, 21.9% children can do division while in Devipatan, 19.9% children can. Bareilly division has performed better than Lucknow with 22.3% kids able to do division there.
 
 In the ability of classes VIVIII students reading a class III-level text, Lucknow is far behind. Only 54.4% children in this division can read the text compared to 71% in Saharanpur, 70% in Varanasi, 70.5% in Gorakhpur and 69.1% in Meerut.In all, there are 18 divisions in UP. ASER's data also shows that Lucknow division performs terribly in early learning levels.Less than one-fourth of the number of children studying in class III, IV and V in Lucknow division can do subtraction. Varanasi and Meerut divisions have the highest percentage of children who can do subtraction--41.7% 41.4% respectively . However, the figures are nothing to be proud of because it means that close to 60% kids cannot do subtraction. Pratham's CEO   said, “Three quarters of the children in UP cannot even read words. Barely 7% children in standard III in an average government school here can cope with what the teacher is doing in the class. If we want to offer our children a real opportunity to learn, we must start from where they are. The foundation skills should be solid.“
 
 Banerjee suggests that the teaching strategy needs to be com pletely rethought and totally redesigned in UP . “If the objective is to enable children to make progress, it is essential to go back to the drawing board in terms of learning goals, content and curriculum, pace and sequence of activities, realistic timelines and implementable methods,“ she said.
 
 Government officials, however, seem surprised. UP State Council for Educational Research and Training director Sarvendra Vikram Simgh said, “Why Lucknow has performed poorer than other divisions is beyond comprehension.“
 
