Nagpur: Patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU) are at risk of dying not only from their critical illness but also from secondary processes such as Hospital-Acquired Infections (HAI).   paediatric intensive Dr Minhaj Sheikh said, “Many Indian hospitals are the breeding ground for such infections. HAI increases morbidity and likely mortality as well as the cost of health care. However, most of such infections are avoidable by the most basic technique called hand-washing.”

 Sheikh was in the city to attend ‘ABG ’17’ organized jointly by the Nagpur chapters of Indian Academy of Paediatrics ( ) and Paediatric Intensive Care Chapter (PICC), and   and Hospital (IGMCH). The programme was supported by Dr Mark Rogers and senior paediatricians Dr Satish Deopujari, who encouraged medical practitioners to follow the basic hand hygiene practices to avoid HAI.
 
 Talking to TOI, he said, “A critical paediatric patient on ventilator, who is supposed to undergo surgery, has acquired pneumonia associated with mechanical based ventilation, termed as Ventilator Associated Pneumonia ( ).”
 
 VAP is one of the most common infections acquired at hospitals. Apart from VAP, infections like Surgical Site Infection (SSI), catheter related Blood Stream Infection, and Urinary Track Infection are also commonly seen in ICUs, and could be life threatening.
 
 Dr Deopujari further said, “As soon as we detect such infection in patient, our focus shifts to treating that infection. The major factor that differentiates HAI is that they are difficult to treat with simple antibiotics. Most of such organisms are highly resistant to drugs compared to organisms found anywhere outside the hospital. A high dosage of antibiotics has to be administered to a patient who is already critically ill. Therefore, preventing these infections should be the primary agenda.”
 
 “Hand hygiene plays a big role in avoiding all this. Doctors, nurses, attendants as well as relatives need to keep in mind that simple hand washing with soap for two minutes before performing any procedure, or even touching the patient, is all we need to do,” he said.
 
 PICC president Dr Shilpa Hazare said, “HAI are very common in India because of its tropical location, which offers a conductive atmosphere to such organisms. While many of the developed countries have conductive climate, hence it is not an issue of concern.”
 
 While IAP secretary Dr   said, “Population is also a concern in India. We commonly come across ICUs hosting more beds than their actual capacity. In such a scenario, it becomes tough to follow the hygiene guidelines at ICUs.”
 
 Dr Satish Deopujari presented an update on   during the conference. IGMCH paediatric department head Dr Shilpa Jain said, “ABG Test checks how well the lungs are able to move oxygen into blood, and remove carbon dioxide. It is a topic not just associated with paediatrics but post-graduates and practitioners in the field of neonatology, intensive care, anaesthesia, chest medicine, nephrology and physiology were also seen attending it.” 
 
 
