CHANDIGARH: With no clear probable across parties, the field seems open for the   Lok Sabha byelection, which has been necessitated after the demise of sitting BJP MP Vinod Khanna. While leaders with any connection with the area have begun lobbying, the three key parties – Congress, AAP and BJP are taking their time to take a call.

 Even as speculations are rife about former Punjab AAP convener   (Ghuggi) crossing over to the Congress in case he is promised candidature from Gurdaspur, local leaders such as three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri too are hopeful of getting back into circulation. He lost the Batala assembly election by a narrow margin of 400 votes to SAD’s Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal. “It all depends on whom chief minister Captain   chooses. As a dedicated party leader, we will work for whoever is the candidate,” said Sekhri.
 
 Ghuggi said he was yet to decide his next course of action. He was also non-committal about contesting the  , even though he belongs to Batala. “I have still to get over the AAP episode and will take some time to weigh my options. Nevertheless, I am grateful to Congress leaders like Raj Kumar Verka, who have welcomed me,” he added.
 
 Party leaders are also curious about whether the party will apply the “one-family, one-ticket” rule and thereby scuttle chances of its leaders like Qadian MLA Fatehganj Bajwa’s son Kunwar Partap Singh Bajwa, who is presently general secretary of Youth Congress or that of his sister-in-law and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s wife, former Qadian MLA Charanjit Kaur Bajwa to contest. “It remains to be seen if the rule was limited to the assembly polls and whether it would be extended to the Lok Sabha byelection as well,” said a local leader. The party leadership has pointed out that no such claim has been made by any of the political families for the party ticket so far.
 
 On Ghuggi, Punjab Congress president   has already clarified that there is still no plan to induct him. Even as AAP has decided to contest the Gurdaspur bypoll, there is still no talk about the probable. “As the party doesn’t have many leaders from Majha and finding a suitable candidate will be a challenge for the party,” confided an AAP leader. In BJP, there are indications that the party might field a celebrity to match the stature of Khanna. 
 
