GANDHINAGAR: Digischool, smart classrooms, e-learning and digital education was the flavour of the education budget for 2017-18. The department bagged an allocation of Rs 25,000 crore, with a series of announcements.

 The government in the budget for 2017-18 announced free medical education for girls scoring over 80 percentile marks. In addition to 50% assistance in tuition fees under Mukhya Mantri Swavalamban Yojana, girls admitted to self-financed medical colleges will get the remaining 50% as assistance in tuition fees from the  , which will make it completely free.
 
 Apart from this, the government also announced students of   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education board who clear their class XII examination will get tablets for just Rs 1,000. The government said that about 3.5 lakh students are likely to clear the board examination this year.
 
 Apart from these, the government announced that 1,200 primary schools will be exposed to smart classes through the use of computers, smart interactive boards, IR camera, projector and digital pen. The government said that these smart classes will be provided at 2,400 classrooms, benefiting 84,000 students.
 
 The government said smart schools with internet connectivity will be set up for primary, secondary and higher secondary schools. Moreover, digital education learning will also be set up at 37 colleges to conduct online exams and to provide language learning centres at these colleges.
 
 The government said 7.44 lakh girls students in class IX-XII will be provided free education at 5,374 grant in aid schools. The government also announced a new sainik school at Veraval and in Surat and 30 new government schools in remote areas. The government has also announced a tribal university in   district.
 
 Apart from this, the government announced that it would provide interest subvention during the moratorium period on educational loan taken by Gujarat students availing of higher education at foreign universities.
 
 
