Wednesday's programme held by the   at Meghdoot to honour   put to rest speculation about the renaming of the theatre. The invitation cards that were leaked online had wrongly mentioned the renaming of Meghdoot I to E  , say Akademi officials. Shekhar Sen, chairman, Sangeet Natak Akademi, reiterated that Meghdoot will remain Meghdoot and the open theatre performance space will now be called E Alkazi Rangpeeth, etched in metal, as a mark of respect to the former National School of Drama (NSD) chief.

  
    performed the play Gharwali at the event 
 
 
  Actors Naseeruddin Shah, Dolly Ahluwalia and other theatre veterans gathered at Meghdoot to pay their respects to Alkazi, who could not attend the event. His students, both old and new, had come to Delhi specially for the event. Vani Tripathi Tikoo, CBFC member and student of Alkazi, said that the programme was also held to celebrate 50 years of Meghdoot Theatre. She said, "I do not understand why there should be any controversy about the name. To people who are creating these controversies, I want to ask, do they even know the work of Ebrahim Alkazi saab and his contributions to theatre? Meghdoot remains Meghdoot. Ebrahim Alkazi, my guru, is the legacy of theatre. It is the 50th year of Meghdoot, which was conceived and designed by him and this programme is a fitting tribute to sir. This place is one of country's first open air theatres and we had no concept of performing in the open air arena before he created this."
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (L-R) Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker, Lok Sabha and Shekhar Sen, chairman, Sangeet Natak Akademi
 
 
  
 Naseeruddin Shah, an NSD alumnus, performed the play Gharwali at the event. He said, "Yeh rangmanch mere liye bahut khaas jagah hai. This is the place where I watched an NSD play and decided ki main NSD ke alawa kahin aur nahi jaane wala. This is the place where I first met Alkazi saab. I told him that I want to join a drama school and he was very encouraging. Meri wajah se unhe jitni pareshani hui uska unhe andaza nahi tha. Alkazi saab hamare liye ek surrogate walid hua karte the, hum unhe chacha kehte thay jiska ilm unhe bhi tha. Actors who have studied at NSD are often asked what do we think about Alkazi saab. So I would want to tell them that we were completely obsessed with him. I am proud that this theatre, which has been set up by him, will have his name etched on it and I got a chance to perform here. I have to say that Alkazi saab is one of the most remarkable men I have met so far."
 
 
  
  (L-R) Heeba Shah
 
 
  
 Costume designer and actress Dolly Ahluwalia was a regular at NSD, but she says that over the years, she has cut down on her visits to the drama school. "Initially, I used to come a lot to take classes, but now I don’t visit NSD that often because I think that the approach towards theatre has changed. I am from the 'Alkazian' period and the discipline which I was groomed in was very different. So I find myself to be a misfit today and therefore prefer to stay away," she said. Talking about her days at NSD and Alkazi’s teaching methods, she said, "Today, whatever I am, it is because of him. I came to NSD for the first time in 1976 and the moment I entered, I saw a few women smoking. Coming from a Sikh family, it was a big shock for me. My father had already had a word with chacha and he took me inside. That was when I met him for the first time and he just stood up and said, 'Hello my beautiful!' NSD has played a major role in my life. I try putting the discipline I learnt from NSD into whatever work I do. Even when I make costumes, I train my assistants to follow that discipline. I haven't taken any training of costume designing, Alkazi saab once came up to me and said, 'I see that thing in you' and that was the day I started observing and learning. NSD used to give us 50 paisa to go and roam in DTC buses and get 20 samples of jute or plastic, and that is how I learnt what fabrication is."
 
 
