MUMBAI: In the last leg of the Mumbai   Review Committee report for the island city, which was submitted to municipal commissioner   last week, it has been recommended that the majestic BMC headquarters be upgraded from Grade II A to Grade I. 

 Several recommendations pertaining to iconic heritage structures in A ward have made their way into the report. Streets like Dr Dadabhai Naoroji Road (DN) road and  , both of which were earlier part of the Fort precinct, have been recommended to be listed as individual sub precincts.
 
 In case of the BMC headquarters, only the main (old) building, which was restored recently, has been recommended to be elevated into Grade I category while the annex building remains a part of the precinct area. “BMC building was Grade II A and possibly, the view taken in the past, was that since it’s a functional building, regular repair works should be allowed in the structure. However, this committee, while upgrading it to Grade I, has mentioned that regular maintenance work or reshuffling work should be allowed. This move acknowledges the value of the structure, which is nothing less than the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus—a UNESCO world heritage site,” said a source. 
 
 Meanwhile, the members on the panel felt that DN Road and Dalal Street have a unique streetscape and therefore, its identity should be distinctly retained. A member said that Dalal Street for instance had partly gone into Horniman Circle precinct and Bora Bazar precinct and therefore, it was losing its uniqueness. A sub precinct is an area within a bigger precinct and has a separate individual identity while complimenting the overall precinct. 
 
 In a significant recommendation, the committee said that three draft precincts—Cooperage, Cuffe Parade and Cantonment—that were published in 1999 and pending for a government sanction be deleted. “The committee has suggested deleting the precincts as a lot of development has taken place and only individual listed structures could be kept in the precinct,” said a source. 
 
 The committee has also made recommendations about iconic statues in A ward and said that they should be acknowledged and preserved. A ward is famous for a host of statues from that of Sir   near Churchgate station to Sir   in front of the BMC building. “There are around half a dozen statues along Oval Maidan and Cross Maidan, and while most of these statues are well preserved, there are a few others, which are also in A ward, like the Dadabhai Naoroji statue near Flora Fountain, that also could be acknowledged and preserved,” said a member.
 
 Considering that this is the end of its report for wards in south Mumbai, the committee also flagged off the issue of British-era heritage milestones, emphasizing that if these cannot be retained at their current location, then they could be placed in an open space within the same radius line. Heritage review committee chairman Dinesh Afzulpurkar, a retired IAS officer, was not available for a comment. 
 
 One of the issues pointed out by the review committee, though not within its purview, is load on structures like the Bombay high court building. The committee suggested decentralization of work.
 
 The heritage review committee, headed by Afzalpurkar, was set up in 2013 to take a relook at the new heritage list after it attracted more than 3,000 suggestions and objections, of which 1,500 came from wards in south Mumbai — A, B, C, D.
 
