The episode starts with   telling Qamaruddin that he has to learn many things from him. Qamaruddin says that for this Balaji will have to stay with him.
 
  While playing chess with Qamaruddin, Balaji says that he is getting a very small amount of area, as Qamaruddin can get the whole Deccan if he realeases Shahu ji. Qamaruddin says Balaji that this is impossible because then Tarabai's son   will have to leave the position of the King as   will become the king.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  Balaji says that Tarabai is aware of this thing, now that the responsibilites of the King are not easy and Shiva Raje is unable to handle the responsibilities properly.
  
  Qammaruddin agrees to Balaji's proposal and gets ready to talk to emperor   seeking release Sahu ji.
  
  Balaji says that if Qamaruddin is not able to do so then the area for which Shiva Raje has agreed to give to Aurangzeb will also be not given to him.
  
  Qmaruddin agrees to this deal.
  
  Balaji moves away from there. Khas asks Balaji that how will he make Qammaruddin believe this decision as there is no such thing and Balaji has lied to Qammaruddin about the deal.
  
  Balaji says that Qammaruddin's greediness will make him belive on this deal.
  He tells him that he wants to meet Kambaksh, son of Aurangzeb. As he has a strategy in this.
  
  On the other hand Baji is making a plan along with his friends and brother Chimna ji that how to defeat Nasir.
  Chimna says that making Nasir lose is not so easy. Baji says that he has made a strategy to defeat Nasir with a game.
  
  Suddenly Ballu comes to them and says their old friend is back and he wants to come in there team and defeat Nasir.
  
  Gotiya says no to Ballu but Baji says that Ballu should come along with them as as there should be a unity between the marathi against the Mughals. Baji shares his strategy infront of his friends including Ballu.
  
  Baji says that the game will be of bringing back the flag which will be in the ground in a distance.
  
  Baji will be on his horse Malhari and Nasir will be on his elephant Yakud. He tells everybody about the possibilities of him winning.
  
  Ballu gets to know about all this and tells everything to Nasir.
  
  In the evening Baji's mother Radha bai tells him that he should not only know about his strength and weaknesses but about the strength and weaknesses of his opponents.
  
  Baji shows his friends an urn full of honey and tells them that it is for a friend and that friend will tell him about his opponents plan.
  
  Next day in the morning the game is going to begin and everybody gathers over there including Baji and Nasir.
