ALWAR: A  , who has completed his  , went on a   at the   on Tuesday demanding arrangements for his   to his country .

 Sajid, the 45-year-old Pakistan national, who was imprisoned for illegally crossing the border, completed his term seven months ago.He is not alone. There are 17 prisoners, of six nationalities, who have completed their term and yet remain lodged at the Alwar Central Jail. The prisoners, who are from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Cameroon, Iran and Myanmar, have approached their respective embassies.
 
 The jail authorities wrote a letter to Alwar SP on Tuesday raising concern. “Proper arrangements should be made for these prisoners to return to their respective countries,“ reads the letter.
 
 The letter also states that many of them are threatening to go on an indefinite hunger strike. “The authorities have convinced them from taking any extreme step as they are working tirelessly for their return,“ reads the letter. The authorities have given the reference of Sajid, who completed his term at the Jaipur Central Jail on May 21, 2016 and has since been lodged in Alwar jail.
 
 Like Sajid, Sergealain Betegue, who was arrested for trafficking fake currency notes completed his term a few months back.Cameroon nationals, he and his sister have been making rounds of the Ministry of External Affairs and Cameroon Embassy but in vain.
 
 Some of the prisoners have been awaiting their return for years. Javed Aslam, a native of Rahimyarkhan in Pakistan, is waiting to return home since March 11, 2012, and Hamid Khan from Balochistan since August 11.The human rights groups are also pushing their cases but to no avail.
 
 Jail authorities say that these foreign nationals require documentation from the ministries and their respective embassies. “The moment they step out of jail they will be arrested by the police for not having a valid visa and other documents,'' said the jail authorities.
 
 Alwar SP Rahul Prakash said, “The matter has been directed to senior police officiers and we are trying to convince the foreign nationals that the matter will be resolved soon.“ TOI repeatedly tried to contact Pakistan Ambassador in India Abdul Basit but he was unavailable for comment.
 
