BENGALURU: In school we have all read about   -- the housekeeping mechanism of our body where the healthy, living body cells eat up dead ones and clean them. Now, this biological mechanism can be used to treat severe ophthalmological disputes like dry eyes,   and age-related degeneration, research by a Bengaluru ophthalmologist has found.

 Dr Rohit Shetty has come up with a therapeutic method based on the self-defence mechanism of cells -- where living cells eat up the dead ones to repair severed eye cells -- to cure eye-related complications. 
 
 Dr Shetty’s work is based on a study by Japanese scientist Yoshinori Ohsumi, who used baker’s yeast to identify genes essential for autophagy and won the   in physiology or medicine last year for the same.
 
 “We have been working on questions and mysteries of what really causes a disease. However, most of us are busy treating the conditions rather than finding the reasons behind them, which would essentially help us treat that condition in a holistic way. Our approach was to find out the causes, study them and then create a novel medication that would cure the ailment at an early stage so that treatment is effective, safe, preventive and cheap,” said Dr Shetty.
 
 Dr Shetty’s research was spurred by his curiosity about autophagy. “Although the concept has been used to treat cancer, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s abroad, its benefits weren’t being explored in ophthalmology. Now that it has been found, people should know that even Indians can contribute towards life-saving therapies,” he added.
 
 The study, for the first time, indicated the role of autophagy in causing dry eyes, considered a modern epidemic among the young, and keratoconus, a disease that weakens the cornea, even requiring a transplant at times. 
 
 “Once we figured the role of autophagy in these ailments, we wanted to work on altered autophagy (correction and restarting of the biological mechanism). We came to know of a new mechanism on how the disease can occur due to oxidative stress and how altered autophagy could prevent its revival. Based on this, we came up with India’s own therapeutic option to control dry eye and keratoconus,” said Dr Shetty.
 
 
 
 
 It’s known that autophagy abates with age, contributing to eye ailments like muscular degeneration, dry eyes and glaucoma. As such, if the autophagy procedure is corrected or re-started (altered autophagy), the aliment can be treated.
 
 
 
 
 Oxidative stress causes autophagy to abate, triggering ailments as dead cells keep on accumulating instead of being cleared out by the living ones. This is where meditation and yoga play a major role in initiating altered autophagy. They reduce oxidative stress, improve cell survival, leading to better housekeeping and cleaning of dead cells. Fasting one day a week also helps reboot this mechanism and cure a disease.
 
 Aim to prevent needless blindness
 
 Now, we are working to use this research to resolve retina-related issues and address the wide incidence of glaucoma, a condition of increased pressure within the eyeball causing gradual loss of sight. We hope to use the same mechanism of autophagy and prevent needless blindness
 
 Dr Rohit Shetty | Narayana Nethralaya
 
 
 
 
 Reya (name changed), 26, who worked for an animation company, was suffering from severe pain in her eyes. She was diagnosed with keratoconus that affected her corneas, making them weak. The pain not only affected her quality of life, but also forced her to leave her job. Riya was treated with the therapeutic tool based on autophagy mechanism of living cells. She is doing fine now and is back to work.
 
