One of the best things about the second half of January is the end of season sales that it brings. This is the time that   are hunting for the best deals and   they can get their hands on. But this year, managers of many apparel stores in the city feel that   has drastically reduced the number of shoppers. After weddings and vacations, shopping seems to be another avenue that has taken a hit post demonetisation. Hemali Abhole, manager of the flagship   of a premium brand informs, “Despite putting in extra hours of work, the situation seems hopeless. The only decent walk-ins we get is on the weekends. On weekdays the store looks deserted. The amount of revenue we are generating in an entire week now, is less than what we used to generate on weekends alone, last year.” 

 
 
 
 While many stores are still trying to figure out why numbers are so low, Nitin Savlani, store manager of an apparel store says, “In Indore, two things have affected business. One is demonetisation and the other is the recent addition of few more   to a newly renovated mall in the city.” But while sales at some premium brands have taken a hit, walk-ins at stores of budget brands are doing fairly well. “The customers of premium brands have switched to budget brands as they are more affordable. Even shopaholics are spending meticulously and only on staples like denims, rather than sweatshirts,” shares Tarushikha Bundela, the manager of a budget brand flagship store.
 
 
 
 
 Store managers who were otherwise glum, saw some respite on January 26, as the big deals succeeded in attracting a good number of walk-ins. Vinita Singh, a store manager, shares, “There were good walk-ins throughout the day and surprisingly, the store saw a full house in the evening. Still this year’s revenue couldn’t beat the sale of the last two years.”
 And since wedding season is on, customers are making the most out of ‘buy two get one’ offers and gifting apparel as return gifts at weddings. Bhavna Kishnani, whose brother will be tying the knot in the first week of February, says, “The Republic Day sale had good deals and I bought gifts for over 30 guests. There were offers like ‘flat 60 per cent off’ and ‘buy two get one free’.”
 
 
 
 
 Interestingly, those in the   industry seem to have a different opinion on why the sales are not doing well. Anjali Shekhawat, a fashion students says, “I feel that the   is actually a stock clearance sale. Post Sankranti the temperature has risen and people don’t want to spend money on clothes that wouldn’t be of any use for this season.” She also adds that as far as wedding season is concerned, people are getting their essential outfits designed. “I chose to splurge on staple dresses that were on discount - like an LBD or a pair of sneakers or gym wear - as these are the things that will never go out of fashion."
