Bhopal: A day after banning extraction of sand through machines in rivers across the state, the   government will now sell sand directly in the market in a “transparent manner” and issue quarry licenses to societies and self-help groups run by women and youth. The mining policy will be amended to control the market price of sand.

 “We have banned   on the Narmada riverbed and prohibited use of machines to extract sand in other rivers to maintain a balance between environment and development. Now, the government will change the mining policy and lease sand quarries to women and youth societies for manual extraction of sand,” chief minister   announced at an event on Wednesday. “We will scientifically study mining areas and the limit of extracting sand from the riverbed. The government has banned use of machines. There will be only manual extraction. During this period, the mining corporation will control sand price in the open market to control excessive pricing and black-marketing,” said Chouhan. The   is aiming to scotch fears of black-marketing and hoarding of sand after the ban. Sand prices are already up by about 15% in Bhopal.
 
 The State Congress didn’t sound too impressed. “We still don’t understand why the chief minister’s love and obsession for sand mining continues. Instead of making agriculture a profitable venture, like he had promised, does the CM want to make sand mining lucrative?” ,” asked PCC chief spokesman K K Mishra. 
 
 Chouhan is on a mission against illegal sand mining that has intensified after the first crackdown during the early days of Narmada Seva Yatra in end-January. In March 2015, the state government formulated a sand-mining policy to stabilise sand prices and bring transparency. It was suggested that the State Mining Corporation would identify new areas for sand mining and allow it in all tehsils of 18 districts. The corporation had also scaled down the security money for bidders from 25% to 10%, making mining much easier and lucrative. 
 
 Now, the government again wants a change in the mining policy after reports of reckless extraction through machines. The CM said on Wednesday that the State Mining Corporation will have direct control of allotment of quarries and fixing of market price of sand so that it can help poorer sections during their need. The government will encourage women and the youth to form societies for manual extraction and provide work to labourers.
 
 “The government will buy sand from the societies and the Mining Corporation will distribute bonus to societies and labourers. This will help lakhs of poor families earn their livelihood from legal mining, which until now was a major source of income for only a few influential contractors and companies,” said the chief minister.
 
 Earlier, in 2013, the state government had amended the Minor Minerals Rules, 1996, facilitating formation of district-level environmental committees for granting environmental clearance to mining projects. This rendered the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), formed under ministry of environment, redundant for sand mining projects in MP. 
 
 The website of state mineral resources department says that in 2014-15 the government filed 564 complaints of illegal mining, 7,861 of illegal transportation and 657 of illegal storage related to minerals. The next year, the government registered 489 complaints of illegal mining, 9,997 of illegal transportation and 693 of illegal storage. About Rs 24.20 crore was recovered as penalty in 2014-15 and Rs 29.43 crore the next year.
 
 
