BHOPAL: In a blatant violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act, the cops probing into the alleged rape of a three-year-old girl by a play school director in Kolar area of city, a few days back, have failed to produce the survivor before child welfare committee.

 According to POSCO Act 2012, it is mandatory for police to report the crime to Child Welfare Committee of Woman and Child Development Department within a period of 24 hours, to ensure care and protection for the survivor. The case first got registered at Kolar police station on February 27. It was transferred to the crime branch the following day, but no one has reported the crime to the child welfare committee.
 
 Rekha Shreedhar, CWC member said, “Police has not reported the case to us, despite being registered under POCSO. In fact, they never report any case of child abuse to us. All our notices to the police stations, office of superintendent of police and even Inspector general of police have done no good.”
 
 She stressed upon how sensitive the case was, keeping in mind the age of the victim and said it was really important to counsel her to bring her out of the trauma.
 
 Another CWC member said, “One should be able to understand the mental trauma that the child must be going through. The police have recorded her statement, but going by the rules, only we are eligible for proper interviewing and counseling of the child. We take a lot of care in ensuring the victim’s safe recovery.”
 
 Rashmi Mishra, ASP, crime branch, who is supervising the case said, “The case was initially registered by Kolar police, hence it was their responsibility to report the crime to CWC. The investigating officer should do that. I am just supervising the case.”
 
 CWC plays a very crucial role in cases of child sexual abuse, taking decisions regarding rehabilitation of the child. Important decisions like whether the child is to live with his or her family or put in a shelter home and other decisions, keeping the child’s best interests in mind, are taken by CWC. CWC also takes the call in assigning or terminating a support person for the child, as it sees fit.
 
 
