NEW DELHI: The   (IOA) has threatened to take away the affiliation of the   (IGU) for not complying with the Olympic charter. According to a letter given by   secretary general Rajeev Mehta to Satish Aparajit, the president of  , it has been categorically explained how the   body isn't in consonance with the rules and regulations of the International Golf Federation.

 It took over two decades for the IGU to obtain affiliation from IOA, which was given to the golf body in 2012. "While reviewing the governance of various national sports federations, it has come to our knowledge that the constitution of IGU is still in stark contrast with the Olympic charter," Mehta wrote.
 
 While stressing the need to change the bylaws of IGU, which talks about one state one member and elections of office bearers after every four years and fix the tenure as per the IOA charter, IOA has issued a warning by giving a 45-day deadline for the golf body to fall in line or else face action. 
 
 "The current categories of membership with different proportion voting rights result in inadequate representation. Generally, the national sports federations grant membership to state association with equal representation of one or two votes in the general assembly. On the lines of the constitution of IGF, the professional golf organization may also be granted membership with or without voting rights. As a rule, other institutes and associate members of national sports federation shall have no voting rights," the letter said.
 
 "Generally, the election of the executive committee of national sports federation is held once in four years. The conduct of election for governing council of IGU every year disrupts leadership and continuity in development," Mehta said while adding that election with bias is a must for a democratic set-up of IGU, which is ruled by whims and fancies of few officials in influential clubs. The letter also talks about how every member of the executive committee should get an opportunity to contest elections.
 
