NAGPUR: With Maharashtra Pradesh Congress president   scheduled to visit Nagpur on Saturday to launch the   for NMC polls, all hell has broken loose in the Congress party with a faction announcing on social media the ‘political demise’ of Chavan along with three leaders of the city.

 A well-designed condolence message (Tervi Nimantran Patrika) circulated on WhatApp names Chavan, ex-MP  , city Congress president Vikas Thakre and Abhijeet Wanjari, and says the four met with ‘political demise’ on February 3 while ‘manipulating the party ticket distribution’ for NMC polls. It further appeals party men to participate in the 13th-day mourning function to be held at Wathoda Square (in East Nagpur) on February 15.
 
 While indications of groupism in the party were evident right from October, it is for the first time that state unit president Ashok Chavan is directly being targeted. The social media message accuses him of being “sold out to the BJP”, and for presiding over liquidation of the party in the state. “It is a sad but happy end of these leaders and their ‘ashes’ will be immersed at different ‘gutters’ along the Nag Nadi on Feb 20 and a ‘feast for the mourners’ will be organized on Feb 23,” the funnily written but ominous-sounding message says.
 
 While the message does not reveal the author’s name, there is strong suspicion that it could be the work of someone close to ex-ministers Satish Chaturvedi and Nitin Raut, who are not at all happy about ticket distribution for the NMC polls. Many of their supporters have been denied nominations in North Nagpur, East Nagpur and South Nagpur assembly segments, which they have nursed for years.
 
 Both Chaturvedi and Raut could not be contacted. Raut was away in Uttar Pradesh for party campaign in that state’s elections. Chaturvedi’s cell was out of range in the evening. Sources in the party said Chaturvedi had a bitter fight with Chavan in Mumbai during the parliamentary board meeting. He picked up a fight when Chavan refused to hear him out on his claims in East Nagpur, the constituency from where he was elected five times but gave up to contest from South Nagpur in 2014.
 
 Asked about the internal strife, Muttemwar and Thakre said disgruntlement over nominations is a common phenomenon and it is seen in every party. Muttemwar did not blame Chaturvedi and Raut for the objectionable social media message against the party president. 
 
 “But it is clear that some people are frustrated. However, the candidates have been finalized looking to their electoral merits. We are sure that those who trust the Congress party and are loyal to it would not be distracted by such mischievous messages and ensure Congress victory in the NMC polls,” asserted Muttemwar.
 
 It is a sad but happy end of these leaders and their ‘ashes’ will be immersed at different ‘gutters’ along the Nag Nadi on Feb 20 and a ‘feast for the mourners’ will be organized on Feb 23
 
