Bathinda: Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s Takht Damdama Sahib Talwandi Sabo visit on Thursday was a show of strength with scores of AAP leaders and MLAs joining him for the visit.

 Khaira started from Fatehgarh Sahib and reached Talwandi Sabo late in the afternoon. He addressed party workers on the way at many places, including Patiala, Bhawanigarh, Sunam and Mansa. Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann and many of MLAs accompanied Khaira.
 
 Addressing party workers at Jaga Ram Tirath, native village of AAP’s Talwandi Sabo MLA Baljinder Kaur, Khaira said, “I wanted to pay obeisance at Takht Damdama Sahib before taking over the challenging assignment. Some of the party leaders have accompanied me. We all are equal and totally behind Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann.”
 
 Khaira accused both the ruling Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal of being anti-people, who were taking turns to rule Punjab and not to serve the people. Referring to state power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh’s aides getting sand mining contracts, he alleged that previously the SAD-BJP looted Punjab and now it was the Congress leaders were doing the same.
 
 The Bholath MLA said AAP would raise all pro-people issues, mainly the loan waiver for farmers, in the assembly and among the people. He also inaugurated the office for Bathinda (rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby at Bathinda.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant said their party would stay among the people. “We will raise issues of people in the parliament and the state assembly,” said the Sangrur MP.
 
 Khaira calls for special session on farm loan waiver
 
 Patiala: Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday urged that a special session on loan waiver to farmers be held and the banks should stop making recoveries from the farmers having land up to five acres as the government had announced to write off their loans. He also claimed that the government should pay the interest on farmers’ loans to the banks. Statement of Sukhpal Khaira comes days after Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had urged the representatives of national and private banks to offer farmers one-time settlement (OTS). 
 
 
