CHANDIGARH: Panjab University(PU) has accused  , Mohlan,  , of running a dummy college for last five years and recommended a vigilance probe against the college and university inspection committee that granted it temporary affiliation.

 In a two-page report, the copy of which is with TOI, an inspection team of three faculty members made eight observations against the college management. The team had paid a surprise visit to the college on August 12.
 
 It was recommended that the report be tabled in upcoming syndicate meeting on September 23 for a final decision.
 
 The report alleged that except BSc agriculture, classes of no other courses were being run in the college.
 
 The committee pointed out that a school is being run from the college premises. The day the committee visited, the management allegedly asked school students present in college classrooms to flee from the back gate.
 
 According to reports, the teachers appointed from college are being asked to take classes of the school.
 
 The committee, while referring to the salary record, said teachers are being paid salary from a bank but the whole amount is being withdrawn the same day, an unusual practice.
 
 Although the college is running for last five years, no doors or windows were fixed in one of the rooms.
 
 The committee also questioned previous inspection committees of PU that granted temporary affiliation to the college. The committee pointed out members of the committee were usually from evening studies department.
 
 The committee members believed hardly few students attended regular classes, but large number of them appeared in PU exams. "It is feared that large-scale cheating might be promoted by the management,” the committee said.
 
 The report recommended that the authorities have to check the record of the university regarding reports of affiliation committees during last five years, the number of students enrolled as per university record, number of students who appeared in PU exams.
 
  When TOI contacted college chairman  , he denied any dummy college was being run. He said the premises have two buildings, out of which a college is run by the management affiliated to PU since 2012 from one and a school from the other. He said there are three courses in the college, BA, MA and BSc agriculture for which 600 to 700 students are enrolled annually. The team visited at 1 pm in the college when the classes are over due to which less number of students were present, he said.
 
 However, the management was able to show a strength of only 32 students in college in five classrooms. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
