PUNE: With chief minister Devendra Fadnavis advocating for garbage   within the city, political party   now face a challenging task to convince their corporators to allow setting up of processing units in their respective wards.

 Leaders of most parties said they were in favour of the ward-level processing units, but they want the administration to ensure smooth working of these plants. Not even 50% of the existing wards have such units.
 
 The issue of garbage processing within municipal limits came up recently when villagers of Uruli Devachi and Phursungi resorted to an agitation, opposing dumping of the city’s trash. The villagers claimed that the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) has failed to resolve the issue for the last 20 years.
 
 Shrinath Bhimale, leader of the house in the PMC, said, “Nothing concrete was done in the last 15 years to ensure 100% processing of garbage within the city. We do not want any politics over the issue. We want all leaders to keep aside politics for the city’s betterment. Even if we can set up 5-10 tonnes of unit in each ward, the civic administration’s overall potential of processing will go up.” 
 
 Mayor Mukta Tilak said the   has said the city needs to find a solution to garbage dumping by the provision of more processing plants. The BJP would look forward to an all-party consensus, she said. 
 
 Senior Congress leader Arvind Shinde said the idea of setting up of more processing units “sounds promising but it will require a lot of homework”. He said, “The state has been sitting on a proposal of setting up of a 700-tonne plant to treat dry and mixed garbage.” 
 
 Leader of opposition Chetan Tupe said the government and the PMC needed to study the garbage issue in depth towards long-term solutions. 
 
 The PMC has, in the meantime, decided to start selling compost fertilisers generated at biogas plants, compost units in housing societies and civic gardens. The proposal to sell the compost fertiliser generated within the city was under consideration for the last few months and the civic body is holding talks with the Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited. 
 
 “We are generating bio-fertilizer at various plants at the ward level. These plants have the capacity to process about 5-10 tonnes of wet garbage. The fertilizers will be branded and sold in the market,” said Suresh Jagtap, head of the PMC’s solid   department.
 
 The state urban development department has recently issued a circular asking the municipal corporations to brand the compost generated at the waste processing plants. 
 
 PMC officials said the administration was already supplying the fertilisers to the farmers to some extent.
 
