PUNE: The civic budget has proposed new flyovers, roads and a tunnel as a solution to the city’s traffic woes in sharp contrast to the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) approved by the general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) which strongly objected to their construction. 

 The CMP and experts have been insisting on sustainable solutions like improving public transport and citizens feel politicians are interested in such big projects because of the possible kickbacks involved in the process. 
 
 The draft civic budget has proposed a tunnel to connect Pashan-Panchavati and Kothrud to avoid traffic congestion in these localities and for relief to daily commuters who travel to the western parts of the city. 
 
 The tunnel, a first-of-its kind in the city, will be crucial for commuters using   to reach the other parts. The standing committee has allocated Rs1 crore for preliminary work. There is a plan to begin with a detailed project report (DPR) and check its feasibility.
 
 “The standing committee must disclose where the money will come from for such projects which are nothing but hollow talks,”  , founder of Sajag Nagarik Manch, said.
 
 There is no surety about how much money the civic body is going to get with factors such as GST and poor progress in the real estate market. The announcement of projects is nothing but an attempt to gain popularity, he added.
 
 The metro, more flyovers, expansion of roads and new parking plots are the highlights of the draft civic budget presented by the standing committee on Thursday. It set aside Rs 61 crore for developing more grade separators, bridges and flyovers.
 
  of Pedestrian First said the whole vision of the budget revolves around flyovers and bridges which is not good for the city in the long term. 
 
 “We have seen many flyovers and bridges coming up in the city in the last two decades, but the situation has not improved. It is becoming worse day by day. This picture should change and focus should be more on public transport,” he said.
 
 “The budget has presented rosy picture about traffic solutions. It does not address providing reliable and low cost public transport system for the city,” Jugal Rathi, founder of PMP Pravasi Manch, a group working for public transport, said .
 
 The PMC intends to buy new buses, but even though the number of buses have increased, users have not gone up. Instead, the number of people using public transport have reduced. The budget should have given an answer to these basic issues, he added.
 
