AHMEDABAD: Just ahead of the celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary in 2019, a major controversy is brewing between   for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad (MEGA) and institutions founded by Mahatma Gandhi along  .

 As part of the metrorail project, large portions of campuses beside the metre gauge railway line — of Gujarat Vidyapith, some portion of the Navajivan and even the School for Deaf and Dumb — may get hacked up to make way for the 12-metre-wide road. In a separate case, portions of the Navajivan press property, which holds the rights to all of Bapu’s works, was spared after Navajivan authorities independently approached then chief minister Anandiben Patel and requested intervention.
 
 Sources say that Gujarat Vidyapith authorities were worried about their heritage building, the Dr  , which will complete 100 years in 2020. The heritage building is dedicated to the little-known doctor whom Mahatma Gandhi described as his ‘greatest friend’ and benefactor. Mehta was responsible for providing funds to Bapu, secretly, to set up Gujarat Vidyapith — Bapu’s model university for the country — the Indian national movement, and for the campus development of the Sabarmati Ashram. He even provided financial aid to Bapu’s extended family.
 
 Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and AUDA officials claim that objections were raised by Gujarat Vidyapith authorities on the metrorail alignment when the first plans of the corridor were put in the public domain. Earlier,   and AUDA officials had discussed the central business district (CBD) project with Vidyapith authorities, under which the road beside the railway track was to be widened to 18 metres initially. This was reduced to 12 metres after protests. This arrangement also ate into large portions of the Vidyapith campus. Senior administrative members and trustees of the Vidyapith , however, refused to comment on the issue. 
 
 Another vital issue is that Ashram Road is on the Dandi heritage route, which will now be obscured by the flyover near the entrance to the Vidyapith campus and the metro corridor will eat into the Vidyapith campus from behind. 
 
