ANANTAPUR: Telangana chief minister  , who was in   in the district on Sunday to attend the wedding of minister Paritala Sunitha's son Paritala Sriram, took time off to have a one-on-one with TDP senior leader Payyavula Keshav reportedly on the prevailing political situation in Andhra Pradesh. KCR sought out Keshav and had discussion for more than 30 minutes.During the chat with Keshav, the Telangana CM reportedly sought to know the strategy adopted by TDP in winning the Nandyal by-election.Though Keshav did not reveal the details of his conference with  , sources said that KCR was very keen on holding talks. It is said that KCR had enquired for Keshav three times after landing in Puttaparthi and also during his stay at Paritala Sriram's wedding at Venkatapuram. Finally , he could meet Keshav at the helipad at Venkatapuram before flying to portedly enquired about the rainfall conditions and crops in Anantapur district .

 Chandrasekhar Rao cong Puttaparthi airport. KCR moved a few yards away from the helipad, leaving aside his cabinet colleague Tummala Nageshwara Rao and party leader Yerrabelli Dayakara Rao, and had an intimate conversation with TDP senior leader.
 
 KCR's tete-a-tete with a leader of his party's arch rival created a flutter with several leaders trying to find out from Keshav the essence of the meeting. The TDP leader refused to reveal the details to the me dia. However he said that, `when two leaders meet, political discussion is imminent', and did not deny that recent by-election figured in talks.
 
 TDP soures told TOI that TRS was surprised by huge victory achieved by TDP in   and KCR must have wanted to know the strategy and developmental programmes in AP. KCR also spoke to TDP Puttaparthi MLA and former minister   . He re ratulated his AP counterpart N Chandrababu Naidu on TDP's victory in Nandyal and Kakinada Municipal Corporation elections. Both CM's were at ease with each other during the wedding of Paritala Sriram. KCR, flashing a victory symbol to greet people, drew huge response.
 
 Chandrababu Naidu along with Hindupur MLA and his brother-in-law N Balakrishna arrived at Puttaparthi in a chartered flight. The two chief ministers, on the sidelines of the marriage, had a brief chat on improving coordination between the two Telugu states.
 
 Palle Raghunadha Reddy , who received the two CMs, said that Chandrasekhar Rao had promised to extend support for development of AP .
 
 Later, KCR visited former minister Paritala Ravindra's memorial at Venkatapuram and paid tributes. KCR and Ravindra were good friends and cabinet colleagues in the late N T Rama Rao's cabinet.
 
