ALWAR:   that were so far lying neglected on the tourist circuit have now turned into  , for the first time earning  .

  After the Jhalana Forest Reserve in Jaipur cashing in on the leopard,   in Alwar has followed on a quick trot, albeit now a step ahead.
 After the 2005 no-tigers-left debacle in Sariska, tourists have started returning to the reserve, this time not just for the tigers, but also leopards who now hog the limelight.
 
 The Bala Quila site, towering over the Alwar city and spread over 184 hectares, launched its forest safari on July 1, 2016. Moving a step ahead of Jhalana in the management of tourism in a forest reserve, the Bala Quila forest department primarily runs tourist safari through 10 private registered gypsys accompanied by nature guides over the 24 km stretch in the threehour safari. From March, the forest department plans to install cameras too at strategic points. Covered under the Sariska Tiger Reserve buffer zone, the Bala Quila forest safari has picked up pace with the tourists, both domestic and foreign. “Located in the heart of the city, the Bala Quila Eco Tourism site is a unique experience with 10 Leopards, hyenas, porcupines, etc, and a variety of birds. Recently , we spotted the Black Eagle here which is rare in this part of the globe, said Nishant Singh, secretary, Wild Cats Conservation Society. Singh further said, “Besides the thick and dense forest, the safari has an added attraction of the 14th century fort with a panoramic view and a few quaint old temples.Last two months have been very good with a lot of tourists visiting from Delhi and NCR.On January 1alone we earned Rs 36,000 with each gypsy doing five rounds each. In fact, we fell short of gypsys,“ said Nishant Singh, secretary , Wild Cats Conservation Society .
 
 Says Babu Lal Saini, forester with the Rajasthan for est department, “safari in the Sariska buffer zone at Bala Quila are picking up. There are six safari circuits. Among them four are: Bala Quila Eco Tourism area, Bara Liwari Eco Tourism route, Seliserh route and Bala Quila Sugan Hodi.“
 
 The government charges Rs 1,360 per gypsy for a threehour safari. The breakup for which is Rs 1,000 for the gypsy, Rs 200 for the nature guide and Rs 160 as eco-development fee.“After the introduction of the safari, we earn about Rs 1.251.50 lakh every month. Private cars can also be taken for the safari by paying just Rs 50 per vehicle and Rs 10 per head,“ said Babu Lal.
 
 “ At the moment there are 10 registered gypsys and 15 nature guides. Starting next year, we plan to not allow private cars for the safari,“ he said.
 
