BENGALURU: After close to five decades with the   party, former   chief minister and former external affairs S M Krishna said he is quitting the party after saying his self respect and honour was badly wounded by those leading it today. 

 " According to me, age is only a number. It should not be a factor in deciding the future. The Congress today does not want time tested leaders and only want managers to manage the affairs of the party," said a rather emotional Krishna.
 
 After 46 years with the Congress, Krishna on Sunday made a parting remark against the party leadership recalling his unceremonious exit as the minister of external affairs in 2012, by saying: "The congress needs to learn the art of letting leaders exit gracefully."
 
 The congress stalwart said his decision was taken after having felt for quite sometime that he was sidelined from the affairs of the party. 
 
 "I reached my decision 24 hours ago after discussing the same with my wife, Prema," said Krishna.
 
 When asked whether he was unhappy with the manner in which the   Vice President   is running the show and has sidelined him, Krishna snubbed it and said: "When we look at a party, we look towards the party president and not the Vice President or secretaries," he dismissed.
 
 Krishna said he did not want to find out on whether the same fate has been meted out to other senior leaders but did admit that managers were ruling the roost.
 
 Hinting at the bad treatment meted out to seniors in the Congress party, Krishna doubted whether credibility will be associated with the party in the future.
 "Due to its history, I am certain the Congress party will survive, But whether credibility will be there with the party is a question which needs to be answered," he said.
 
 The veteran politician said he was not yet in a position to spell out his next step, though ruling out retirement from politics.
 
 "There is no retirements in politics, politicians only fade away. I have just resigned from politics and will do a little introspection before spelling out my next move," he said.
 
 Krishna did not rule out the possibility of either floating a regional party or backing any political outfit.
 
 "Time will tell as to what I will do in this aspect," he said.
 
 
