PILIBHIT: Members of the Uttar Pradesh Ministerial Collectorate Employees Union have called an   at the   here from Thursday. They are protesting against lodging of an   under sections of   at the Amaria circle   by an inspector of the district supply office. Secretary of collectorate employees union Ashwini Raja said they are fighting for justice for the steno.
 
  According to Amaria SDM Shraddha Shandilyayan, her predecessor Pushpa Devrar had issued a letter to the block development officer (BDO) on April 12 this year requiring him to hold open meeting of village panchayats where fair price shops is absent. The letter which she issued had shown 13 vacancies for ration shops. Shandilyayan said serial number 4 related to Banskhera village had specified “a stay” while column number 7 was blank.
  
  She claimed that her predecessor's letter to the BDO indicated a vacancy in column 4 instead of a stay while column 7 pointed to a vacancy. The date of the letter had also been manipulated. She said the BDO passed a resolution in Banskhera to award a ration shop to one Lalta Prasad following the description of column 4 as presented in the manipulated letter while such a shop was already present in the village.
  
  “The matter came to my notice on July 4 when villagers of Banskhera filed a complaint,” Shandilyayan said, adding that she sought a report from the BDO.
  
  After the BDO reported that his action was in compliance with the SDM’s letter, Shandilayan ordered supply inspector Rajneesh Shukla to lodge an FIR against the anonymous manipulator. “Following my orders negligently, Shukla lodged an FIR against steno Amit Saxena,” Shandilyayan said.
  
  Sadar circle officer Dharam Singh said an FIR against Saxena was been lodged under sections 420, 461, 467 and 468 of IPC.
  
  Saxena said that an FIR was wrongly filed against him as no one knows who had manipulated the SDM's letter. He said that the union had presented a memorandum to the district magistrate regarding the issue and requested the official to quash the FIR.
