PATNA: It was a flashback of the horse race scene from   starrer Rang De Basanti as the ‘Nihangs’ (Sikh warriors) rode hundreds of stallions at rocket speed at   on Friday. The mood at the historic Maidan was ecstatic with Nihangs showcasing their charismatic skills in horse riding and ‘gatka’ (martial art) on the concluding day of   celebrations. Nihangs beating drums atop elephants was also a splendid sight.

 Chief minister Nitish Kumar was also in the audience along with his deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The event was initially scheduled to be held on January 3, but got postponed due to large crowd gathering.
 
 At around 1.30pm, hundreds of Nihangs clad in traditional attire with swords and spears in hands, and many carrying a shield on the back, thronged the ‘gatka’ area after entering Gandhi Maidan from gate number 12 at Ram Ghulam Chowk.
 
 Moments later, Baba Avtar Singh from the Sursingh Nihang Jattha, Amritsar (Baba Bidhi Chand Dal) arrived at the venue. Total 50 horses brought by his ‘jattha’ (group) from Amritsar participated in the nejebazi game, in which the horse riders took out nails pinned in the ground using barcha in their hand. Another 25 horses were brought by Budha Dal headed by Jatthedar Baba Balbir Singh and 40 horses by Tarna Dal of Bakala Sahib, Amritsar.
 
 Baba Avtar Singh told TOI that students of ‘gatka’ are inducted into his ‘jattha’ in a group of 50 and they trained for six months to two years in various skills, including gatka, horse riding and ‘kar sewa’ among others. “The Nihang students are required to dedicate themselves to the jattha and teachings of Guru Gobind Singh Ji. It requires full-time involvement as the students stay with us at the gurdwaras, learn gatka, prepare and serve langars (community meal) and does ‘sewa’ (service) of the ‘sangats’,” said Baba Avtar Singh, who also presented a sword to CM Nitish as gratitude for organising the grand event.
 
 The Nihangs were riding the horses with such high energy that one of the stallions even injured its leg. Following massage of the injured leg by trained Nihangs, the horse stood up and later it was taken on a veterinary care ambulance. The audience was left spellbound with the splendid performance on horses as even a single Nihang rode two/three horses tagged together. The horse race was followed by gatka performances by the Nihangs. 
 
 
