Rains might poke the romantic avatar in some but for many, it is also becomes a reason to stay confined to their homes while it rains cats and dogs outside. The sight of an overcast sky and the raindrops tapping incessantly at the window glass is a recipe for melancholia. Here’s how to bring back the  
 
  
 
  Make recipe cards — the shabbier the better. Collect photos from big family dinners. Hunt out old   and wine labels. Compile the memorabilia by time period or holiday. Affix the items horizontally in an unlined journal. Use photo corners for pictures and recipe cards and adhesive for labels and clippings. Stick a title on the front of the journal with alphabet stickers, and finish off with a ribbon.
  
  
 
  Queue up DVDs of classics (Chalti Ka Naam Gaadi, Amar Akbar, Anthony), old (Andaz Apna Apna) and new (The Dark Knight), and have a marathon screening. Keep a cozy throw at hand to snuggle under, a big bowl of popcorn to dip into, and settle in to enjoy the show.
  
  
 
  There are plenty of games you can play that don’t require paraphernalia or even batteries. Like the “one-word story”. Starting with “Once upon a time,” go around the room and have each person add a single word to the story. To make things easier, decide on a genre in advance — vampire, horror or fairytale.
  
  
 
  There’s nothing like creative time to beat the monsoon blues. Start with origami. Or if you’re a klutz, look around the house for items that you might not normally use for crafting — dry pasta, magazines, paper bags, straws, string, newspaper, fabric scraps or old socks. Then bring out the glue, tape, scissors and markers, and have a blast.
  
  
 
  Make one set of clues for every player (try rhyming the clues for fun), each clue leading to the next one and, finally, to the treasure.   them in envelopes marked with a clue number (like “four of eight”); this will help the treasure hunters keep track. Whoever solves the clues first and finds the treasure — movie tickets, chocolate — is the winner.
  
  
 
  You’ll need to call friends over, or gather the family around for this one. Dress up in the fanciest — or the most ridiculous — clothes you have. Set the table with the good china. On the menu could be tea, hot chocolate, egg or chicken salad, muffins and tea sandwiches in fun shapes. If you have kids, ask them to bring along their dolls and soft toys for the party.
  
  
 
  This one will require a bit of effort, but is lots of fun. Knot the end of a balloon, then snip off ½ inch from the top. Stretch the balloon over the cutoff end of a paper cup so that the knot is in the centre. Place a mini marshmallow into the cup so it fits snugly in the knotted centre of the balloon. While aiming the cup away from you, pull the knot back, release, and send the marshmallow soaring. See who can pop marshmallows the farthest or get the most into a bowl that is kept a few feet away.
  
  
 
  Create tents by draping sheets over the couch. Make them comfy with pillows and sleeping bags. Follow through with an indoor picnic.
  
  The most severe form of weather-based emotion is known as SAD (seasonal affective disorder). The signs are severe hopelessness or anxiety. Arrange your environment so that you receive maximum sunlight. Move furniture so that you sit near a window. Installing
  skylights and adding lamps can also help. 
