PATNA: A day after CM   reiterated his support to ‘notebandi,’ senior   MLA from Maner Bhai Birendra called it “ambiguous and unclear” and asked the CM to clarify if he was on the BJP or the grand alliance side, since he appeared to follow “dual policy” on such a sensitive issue. He said on Wednesday the   had adversely impacted people of the country.

 Bhai Birendra appealed to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and Congress chief Ashok Choudhary, who is also education minister in the state government, to open their mouths and “protect grand alliance MLAs and MLCs from repetitive insults that they have continued to suffer at the hands of the bureaucracy. They don’t get proper hearing from the bureaucracy”.
 
 He, without mincing words, also said the “RJD and Congress netas” should make it clear to CM Nitish that “he should honour” the mandate that the three-party grand alliance of the RJD, JD(U) and Congress had got in the state in the 2015 assembly elections, because he “became CM with the support of MLAs of the three parties.” 
 
 While CM Nitish supported   of Rs1,000 and Rs500 notes announced by PM   on November 8 last year, the CM on Tuesday reiterated that he still supported the note ban, but added that the PM owed an explanation as to what benefits had accrued to the people of the country from it. The CM also suggested that the Union budget, apart from mentioning benefits from the note ban, should provide compensation to those who had lost jobs due to the note ban.
 
 “From the day one, the CM has held ambiguous and unclear stand on ‘notebandi’. He has all along pursued dual policy on sensitive issues. He had been with the BJP for long. The BJP is nothing but the mask of the RSS. The CM should come clear on the note ban,” he said.
 
 Bhai Birendra also accused Nitish of “only trying to delude people of the state, sometime with Prakashotsava and on other occasions with ‘nishchay yatra’.” He said the grand alliance lawmakers have “continued to suffer insults repeatedly at the hands of ‘naukarshahi’ (bureaucracy)”.
 
 His anger also stemmed from the fact that the CM had not yet filled vacant posts of boards and corporations. “The party workers of the grand alliance have been mobilising people. Should not they be accommodated in boards and corporations? Shouldn’t they also feel happy? The long wait has turned into impatience,” he said. 
 
 
