NAGPUR: With a penchant for setting a new record after another, city school teacher  , 39, recently set a national record for a one-of-a-kind alphabetical collection of inaugural issues of comic books from around the world. His feat has been published in this year’s  .

 While talking to TOI, Jadhav said the alphabetical collection is part of a 2140 comic book collection which will increase as days pass. When asked about his obsession with setting a variety of records he simply said, “I just like doing it.”
 
 Despite boasting a vast collection of comics, Jadhav admits he faced difficulty to acquire issues beginning with letter like ‘R’, ‘Y’ and ‘Z’. According to Jadhav, the most difficult to acquire was the 1976 inaugural issue of ‘The Red Bricks House’ from the ‘Bahadur’ series of comic books created by Aabid Surti and published by Indrajal Comics.
 
 Included in Jadhav’s prized collection are two comic series based on recent Bollywood releases — ‘Shivaay’ and Salman Khan starrer ‘Ek Tha Tiger’. “I got my copy of Shivaay when it was released in Mumbai which is signed by   himself,” he said.
 
 Also included in the record setting collection is a 1980’s issue of ‘Adventures of Amitabh Bachchan’ based on the actor. Jadhav also owns editions from international comics like DC’s ‘Superman’, Marvel comics’ ‘Wolverine’, ‘The Ultimates’ and the Indian superhero ‘Chakra’.
 
 Jadhav refuses to take the credit of the vast collection himself since his son Anay Aditya Jadhav, 9, and brother Tanay Jadhav, 34, have also contributed. In fact, all of his family members hold records. “My wife   and my seven-year-old daughter Akshara Jadhav are both record holders. My daughter has 12 records to her name, one of which is a longest first birthday invitation card,” said Jadhav.
 
 All the records under the daughter’s name are part of a social cause — ‘Love, care and educate the girl child’ — aimed at saving and educating young girls. Jadhav and his wife jointly hold a record in India Book of Records for a collection of 111 special narrow gauge railway covers which was showcased at a recent function at Narrow Gauge Railway Museum, Motibagh.
 
 Some of Jadhav’s previous records are for having collected visiting cards from foreign countries alphabetically, an alphabetical collection of wrist watches of all makes in the world and a dozen more.
 
 Surprisingly, Jadhav said, “I do not collect item with the intention of making a record. I just look for something new to do every time and collecting things in a unique way is my way reliving stress.”
 
 Jadhav says he does not see himself stopping from collecting new and interesting items any time soon since he has a separate room in his house just for various collections. “I never break existing records and only set new ones. I have some new ideas in the pipeline which will soon see the light of day,” he said.
 
