CHENNAI: Dismissing reports that   automobile company   shifted to Andhra Pradesh after   did not extend necessary assistance to them, the government on Thursday asserted that the state continued to be a favoured destination for investors. Committed investments are taking place as per the memorandum of understanding signed in the  , 2015, the government said.

 A recent post on Facebook by a user from Chennai, alleging corrupt practices in land allotment leading to Kia Motors shifting to AP, had gone viral on social media platforms. “The whole story is totally baseless and done with an intention only to malign the government,” a statement from the government said. 
 
 The government contended that a structured package of support was offered to Kia Motors, including land, power, water, fiscal incentives and single window facilitation. Last September, however, the CEO of Kia Motors informed the government that it would not be able to consider Tamil Nadu for Kia’s potential greenfield project in India due to the business needs and requirements of the company and stakeholders. 
 
 “It is reiterated that Kia Motors chose not to set up industry in TN only due to their internal policy of not establishing a new unit in the same state where Hyundai is functioning,” the government said. Recalling the announcement of Hyundai (a major shareholder in Kia) that an additional investment of Rs 5,000 crore will be made in its existing unit at SIPCOT Irungattukkottai Industrial Park, the government said this was testimony to the fact that it had been extending complete cooperation to investors.
 
 Referring to Ford’s investment outside Tamil Nadu, the government said that the company had informed former CM J Jayalalithaa in 2012 that the main reason for establishing their greenfield project in Gujarat was to provide a better logistics solution and service delivery mechanism at a reduced transaction time and cost. 
 
 “It was more a commercial decision and not due to any difficulty in operating in Tamil Nadu,” the statement said. It recalled the company’s recent investment of Rs 1,300 crore in setting up a global technology and business research centre in Sholinganallur, the company’s first and only R&D centre outside the US.
 
 Declaring that several new projects are planned in the state, the government said companies like Hyundai, Yamaha Musical Instruments, Xuzhou Construction Machinery, Vedanta Ltd., ITC Ltd, CEAT Tyres and Freudenberg proposed to invest around Rs 15,000 crore in Tamil Nadu, creating employment opportunities for about 6,500 people.
 
 
