NEW DELHI: The   has pulled up Delhi government for what it deemed to be acts contrary to the law on the appointment of government counsels. It also noted that payments made to the counsel "required another inquiry". 

 The committee said it reviewed 46 files on the special counsels appointed without the LG's approval. The report said that the provisions related to appointments were not followed in the appointment of a large number of special counsels, "including  , HS Phoolka and   et al". 
 
 It wondered why when a panel of standing counsels and additional standing counsels had already been framed and approved by the LG, a large number of special counsels - governed by the same legal provisions - was appointed at the behest of secretary, services, and on the authority of the deputy chief minister. This, it concluded, was done without the agreement of the departments of law and finance, and without the LG's final approval.
 
 The report gives an example of such anomalies. The power department requested payment of Rs 1.71 lakh to senior advocate Indira Jaising engaged by senior standing counsel  . When the committee asked the power secretary to ascertain if there was any file on the subject, the latter replied in the negative. The report also stressed that the issue at hand pertained to a special leave petition in the   against an order of Delhi high court and had nothing to do with the functioning of the power department. 
 
 The report claims to have reviewed a file of the finance department dealing with the enhancement of existing powers of certain departments to pay annual fees to advocates. While they were delegated on March 2,1 2016, to pay up to Rs 10 lakh, the general administration department's prerogative was raised to Rs 2 crore on May 20. "As far the committee can visualise, this payment for engaging special counsels was without the approval of the Lieutenant Governor to pursue cases filed by GNCT against the Union of India," states the report.
 
 The Shunglu Committee also made a reference to payments made to special counsels. "It would appear that there is a need for a special audit with regard to the legal expenditure in engagement of counsel, special counsel, etc., for the period between February 2015 and November, 2016."
 
 While the creation of posts of senior standing counsels and additional standing counsels in Delhi high court and NGT was ready for cabinet consideration by July 2015, the report said minister of law and justice Kapil Mishra "declined to mark the file" on August 4, 2015 to the LG, saying the latter had already accorded his approval. "The file does not contain any approval of Lt Governor," claimed the report.
 
 
