JAIPUR: Results of the   (NEET) for admissions to post-graduate (PG) courses in medicine were declared on January 15. Students from Rajasthan who scored well expected that it would make it easier – and cheaper – for them to enroll for higher studies in medicine. 

 However, an anomaly in the law has made it hard for students from private medical colleges in the state to gain admission in government institutes for higher studies. Only students from government medical colleges are considered for 50% quota reserved for students from the state.
 
 The 829 PG seats in the state’s government institutes are filled on the basis of 50% from the All-India quota and 50% from the state.
 
 “We have an MBBS degree and we have scored well in the NEET-PG. Our college too was affiliated to   until 2010. Ours is the first batch to have finished MBBS after MGUMST (Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences & Technology) became a university in its own right. But it too is recognized under the same Act of the legislature. We should not be discriminated against. We are residents of the state, we have done our MBBS from a state university and we have scored well in NEET-PG; we should find accommodation in the state quota. Now, we have no recourse but to approach the courts. That will be a long struggle,” said one student who did not wish to be named. He said his rank in the NEET would otherwise have assured him admission to an MD course in a government institute.
 
 Students said that while the private institute too offered MD courses, it was extremely pricey at Rs 22 lakh per year for three years. At a government institute, the MD course would cost just about Rs 3,000 per year. Giving a sense of the rates at which fees are hiked at private colleges, students who finished the course at MGUMST after joining in 2011 said that while their degree had cost a little over Rs 13 lakh for four years, the fresh batch of students just joining the MBBS programme are expected to pay Rs 16 lakh as tuition fee alone each year.
 
 These students said admission to MD problem would become even more pressing in coming years – theirs was the first batch to pass out after the formation of this private university. Other private universities too had been set up after 2011 and these students too will find themselves deprived once they pass out of the MBBS course.
 
 “This is arbitrary and unjustified, but the government is determined to stick to the letter of law rather than its spirit,” the students, requesting anonymity, told TOI.
 
 Students said that at the time of framing the rules, there were no private medical universities in the state. Now that about 5,000 students are enrolled in private universities and will pass out in coming years, the government must amend the rules so that these students are not discriminated against, they said.
 
 Health minister Kalicharan Saraf told TOI, “This matter has been brought to my notice. We are examining it to see how to make the necessary amendment so that there is no unfair discrimination.”
 
 
