PATNA: After the success of short film ‘Smiling Tears’, a group of engineering students of Birla Institute of Technology- Mesra (Patna branch) have come up with another one ‘Sandesh’ in Hindi. The film was screened here on Sunday to a select group of people, including students and teachers of the institute.
 
  The film has been directed by final year student of electronics and communication engineering Seemant Pradhan. Praveer Sayam, a final year student of computer and science engineering, has written its story. Seemant’s 20 minute-long movie on Indian soldiers was made in five days and the editing and other technical parts took more time. The budget of the film was Rs20,000.
  
  Chairman of Rang Maati R N Dash, BIT-Mesra (Patna branch) director SP Lal and   general secretary Kumar Anupam were present at the premiere of the movie at  . All the prominent college students of city, including National Institute of Technology Patna, National Institute of Fashion and Technology Patna, AN College, Patna Women’s College, J D Women’s College and Science College were present on the occasion.
  
  Appreciating the film, Dash said most of the young people make Bhojpuri films as they don’t want to go to the mainstream cinema. “It is not easy to make a film on such delicate issues. I congratulate their team and hard work to come up with such a good film,” he said.
  
  The storyline targets the mentality of a common man who thinks that joining   is all about getting a livelihood. “The leading character is prejudiced and claims that joining Army is always the last option for the people who don’t get a job even after being educated. It’s a story about a college undergraduate, who heard that his friend wants to join Army, as he is not able to get on-campus placement offers. He was shocked the way his friend insulted the Army men and planned to teach him a lesson,” said Seemant.
  
  The movie was shot on BIT Patna campus and near the   area.
  
  During the film premiere, Seemant said, “The movie gives a message in a practical way, apprising the people about the difficulties faced by the Army men, their immune tolerance about the facts and the workmanship they show, which is unparalleled in any job in the world. Patriotism is not all about holding your tricolour high, it’s about the attitude you show towards your work, which in a longer way contributes to your country.”
  
  The casting crew members of the film were Mayank Anand, Shivjee Patel, Shubhanjay, Praveer Satyam, Seemant Pradhan and Suyash Shreshtha.
  
  Talking about his journey from engineering student to filmmaking, Seemant said it’s his passion and he will continue with it. The boy got placement in a prominent company with good package but he was not sure to join it. “Cinema is totally different from what I had learned. It’s amazing. Being technically strong from engineering field, it helps me understand the editing software and sound design,” he added.
