CHENNAI: The two-year suspension of   following the spot-fixing scandal ended on Thursday and the two-time champions are once again back in fold. And Chennai Super Kings Cricket Limited (CSKCL), the company that runs the team, has already charted out their plans.

 The   management will kick start their promotional campaign from Friday with a couple of social media activities that is aimed at "evoking memories" of MS   & Co in the colours of CSK over the past decade.
 
 K George John, one of the directors of CSKCL, said it's a fresh beginning for them. "It's a new start. On Friday, we will have two activities on social media to mark the team's return. 'Super Moments' will revisit our title-wins, Ashwin-Gayle saga and a few others. Then we will ask fans to send their Super Selfie with CSK stars and with yellow jersey," said John.
 
 Despite their absence from IPL for two years, John mentioned that Brand CSK "hasn't taken" a hit. "We have got a lot of inquiries from various sponsors. We have had support from the sponsors and the fans have been phenomenal in supporting us," he added.
 
 With the suspension coming to an end, John said CSK's iconic skipper Dhoni "has always been" in their plan of things going forward. "If we are given an option of retaining a player, it will definitely be Dhoni," said John.
 
 "We haven't yet interacted with Dhoni as his contract with Pune ends later this year. However, we will speak to him in the future as and when we make our plans for the next season," he added. It's not just about Dhoni. John mentioned that the CSK management is thinking of roping in the same support staff which was there in 2015. Former New Zealand skipper   was at the helm as head coach, while   (bowling coach),   (fielding coach) and analyst   comprised the support staff for quite a few years.
 
 "For us, loyalty is very important. That's been our strength over the years. Though we haven't yet taken a final decision on the support staff, we are definitely thinking of retaining the old support staff," he added.
 
 John added that they are planning to have a few interactive sessions during the upcoming TNPL with some of the former CSK stars such as  , who will be in the city for commentary.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, CSK fans in the city are gearing up to celebrate the return of the Kings.'CSK Super Fan' H Saravanan, who has thousands of followers across the state as part of CSK fan club, has his yellow paint and famous wig ready.
 
 "The entire CSK family is thrilled. Enga thala (Our hero) Dhoni will be back with us. We have been waiting for this very day for the past two years. I think even   will be pleased with the return of CSK! The rivalry is back," Saravanan said.
 
 On Friday, Saravanan and CSK fans will fund a meal for an orphanage and they have also planned blood donation camps in the future. 
 
