GHAZIABAD: An   query has revealed that GDA’s former vice-chairman   did not vacate the official residence allotted him even after he was transferred out of GDA. In fact, he occupied the residence for the entire tenure of   Yadav who succeeded him as   vice chairman. As a result, GDA had to arrange for Vijay Kumar Yadav’s accommodation in a rented flat in Rajnagar and paid a monthly rent of Rs 47,000. 

 This has resulted in a loss of Rs 10 lakh to state exchequer. RTI activist Ved Prakash Agarwal, who filed the RTI application, is now demanding recovery of the amount from Santosh Yadav and also an inquiry into it. 
 
 Agarwal said, “We were aware that Vijay Kumar Yadav, who took over the reins of GDA vice-chairman from Santosh Yadav in May 2015, did not live in the   allotted to GDA vice-chairman in his entire tenure which ended in April this year. So I filed an RTI application seeking details from GDA over the issue and I was shocked to know that Santosh Yadav did not vacate the official bungalow even after he was transferred out of GDA in May 2015 and occupied it till April 2017.” 
 
 Agarwal further said, “As a result of this, GDA had to arrange for Vijay Kumar Yadav’s accommodation in a rented flat in Rajnagar and paid a monthly rent of Rs 47,000. By that calculation, GDA had to shell out Rs 10,81,000 over 23 months till Vijay Kumar Yadav remained as GDA vice-chairman.”
 
 The RTI reply further said that in lieu of Santosh Yadav’s 23 month-stay in the official bungalow, he paid just Rs 72,015 between June and September 2015.
 
 “This is gross violation of official position and goes on to prove that how high ranking officials during the Akhilesh government abused their position for personal gains. I demand that an inquiry be initiated against the whole episode and that GDA recover dues from Santosh Yadav,” said Agarwal. 
 
 Santosh Yadav, a 1995 batch IAS officer, was GDA vice-chairman from May 2012 to May 2015 and was considered close to the SP government.
 
 When questioned, secretary Ravinder Godbole said, “An RTI application was filed and we have replied to it. It is now for the applicant to see what he intends to do with the information provided by us.”
 
