NEW DELHI: Chief minister   on Saturday said that his government has done more for the capital in two years than BJP did in 15 years.

 He added that “BJP has sucked everything out of the corporations“ and challenged it to “show one good work that it has done“. Kejriwal promised to start a helpline for complaints if voted to power in the corporations.
 
 Initially interrupted by rampant sloganeering from BJP workers, the CM addressed a gathering at Raghubir Nagar that falls in the Madhipur assembly constituency. He listed his party's achievements, especially in the water, power, education and health sectors and said, “If I start listing all the achievements of the Delhi government, this night won't be enough“.
 
 Claiming that lakhs of fa milies in Delhi get 20,000 litres of free water, the chief minister added, “We reduced electricity rates and now we have the cheapest electricity in India“. He also claimed that people in other states are now demanding cheaper electricity because of which discoms are against him and have approached BJP to increase rates.“There is a plan that if either Congress or BJP comes to po wer in the MCD, then they will take away the control of electricity and water from the Delhi government and give it back to the MCD like it was before 1998.
 
 Kejriwal also assured house tax waiver for all residential properties. He also pointed out that his government shattered the perception that the electricity and water departments are at a loss. “We made profits in these departments,“ he sa id. He also claimed that a lot of money was saved by curbing corruption.
 
 The CM blamed BJP in the corporations of siphoning off funds given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and said that “those who are not loyal and stab their leaders, shouldn't get votes“.
 
 Kejriwal also spoke about a new health scheme in which people who are unable to get treatment at public hospitals can use government funds to get treated at private hospitals. He said that AAP's flagship project -mohalla clinics -was a success and “by December, the city will have a thousand such clinics“.
 
 Before his government's initiatives, nobody had heard of swimming pools and elevators in public schools, the CM said. He also assured timely salaries to corporation workers so that they don't have to go strikes for their rights.
 
