Mumbai: The six-member planning committee tasked with looking into objections and suggestions for the city’s Development Plan ( ) for the next two decades has, in its report submitted to outgoing mayor Snehal Ambekar on Monday, confirmed that 30 hectares of the total 930-hectare area of the   colony would be taken up for the controversial Metro III car shed and 113 acres for a proposed  .

 The panel has changed the designation of the rest of the Aarey Colony from no-development zone (where development is allowed under certain conditions) to a  , which means it will stay untouched, with zero development permitted. That is little consolation, though, for those trying to save the city’s green lung.
 
 The area for affordable housing in Mumbai has been increased from 707.13 hectares in the   DP to 787.28 hectares, with most of the additional area set aside coming from Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT)  .
 
 The plan will now be placed before the newly-constituted BMC House for approval.
 
 With Aarey marked as green zone, the accessible open space per person in the city goes down from 4 sq m to 3.51 sq m. But planners have said that after taking into account exemptions under reservations, it translates into 3.77 sq m per person.
 
 While marking the area for the car shed and zoo, the panel has cited approval from the state government as reason for its inclusion in the plan. However, two of the panel members, Shiv Sena’s Trushna Vishwasrao and outgoing standing committee chairman Yashodhar Phanse, have expressed their reservations on this while approving of other aspects of the plan.
 
 Activist Rishi Agarwal called the panel’s decision on Aarey disappointing. “This makes one feel there is no scope for public opinion in the decision-making process. Despite being in an NDZ, permission was issued for a car shed and zoo. What is the guarantee that the area will remain untouched even if it is in a green zone?” he asked.
 
 From the total MbPT area of 721 hectares, 55 hectares have been proposed for affordable housing. After considering suggestions made by MbPT, two new zones have been proposed: port’s operational zone and port’s waterfront zone. Affordable housing falls under the waterfront zone category. Apart from this, reservations have been made for schools and hospitals.
 
 The additional open space which has been created comes from NDZ lands; these have been categorized as Special Development Zones 1 and 2.
 
 The committee has also proposed changing the nomenclature Development Control Regulations (DCR) to Development Control and Planning Regulations (DCPR). Gautam Chatterjee, IAS officer who was on the committee and played a crucial role in drafting the report, said, “DCR is also about promoting development, so we felt it should be called DCPR instead.”
 
 According to Section 28 (4) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, “Not later than two months after the receipt of the report the planning authority shall consider the report including objections and suggestions, make a list of modifications or changes and carry these out in the draft DP. The planning authority shall then publish in the official gazette and a minimum of two newspapers the list of modifications or changes made in the draft DP for information of the public.”
 
 
