PUNE: Chief minister on Friday said the city would require two airports. While the construction of the new state-of-the-art airport at   would be completed in three or four years, the existing international airport at Lohegaon would be expanded, he observed.

 Replying to a text message by TOI about the   of the  , the chief minister said, “We require both airports. The expansion can be done in a year.”
 
 Fadnavis’ reaction comes a couple of days after defence minister Manohar Parrikar gave an in-principle nod to transfer 18 acres of defence land to the Lohegaon airport for its expansion. In May last year, the ministry of defence had approved the transfer of 15.84 acres to the airport. But the actual transfer is yet to be done.
 
 The chief minister had said during the announcement of the Purandar airport late last year that the facility would be ready by 2019. But earlier this week, Pune’s guardian minister Girish Bapat said the airport would take five years to come up and so the expansion of the Lohegaon airport was necessary.
 
 Of late, authorities have been stressing on the expansion of the Lohegaon airport apparently because land acquisition for the Purandar airport and announcement of the compensation package for those giving up their land are pending. Last week, senior officials of the Mumbai region of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) came to Pune to discuss with the Indian Air Force authorities the land transfer process and the expansion of the airport.
 
 A civil aviation source said the state government recently realized that the new airport in Pune would miss its earlier announced deadline. “The authorities were, therefore, concentrating more on the expansion of the Lohegaon facility. Initially, things were moving fast regarding the Purandar airport. The administration had said the land acquisition would start by January this year. But it did not happen. Thereafter, Bapat said the new airport would take five years to become operational and they wanted to make the existing airport friendly for passengers,” he said.
 
 “It seems the construction of the new airport might be delayed and so the whole concentration has shifted to the existing facility. The city is not that big to have two similar facilities,” the source said.
 
 Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar also does not like the idea of two airports. “In the absence of a new airport and the exponential air passenger growth at Pune, there was an urgent need for the expansion of the existing facility. The expansion of the existing airport with a promise of a new terminal building and the announcement of a new airport at Purandar seem to be happening simultaneously,” he said.
 
 “What is the use of the expansion of the Lohegaon airport at an expenditure of Rs 400 crore if all civil flight operations will be shifted to Purandar airport? Going by the current status and progress of work, it appears that the Purandar airport will not happen in the near future. This will impact trade, industry and commerce, especially the ambitious cargo and agriculture exports from western Maharashtra,” Vandekar said.
 
 Pune city is spread over an area of 243 sq km and the total area of Pune district is around 16,000 sq km. The total area of Mumbai, which is set to have another airport at Navi Mumbai, is around 605 sq km.
 
 
