BENGALURU: In a clear indication of the Congress high command's intent to kickstart preparations for the 2018 assembly elections in the state,   (AICC) general secretary (Karnataka in-charge)   on Wednesday announced that the party would take a decision on who will head the Kar nataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) by the end of the month.

 “Confusion around the change of   will be cleared this month,“ Venugopal told reporters here, as the curtains came down on the three-day meeting with leaders, functionaries and cadre of the party's Karnataka unit.
 
 Asked whether he and his team ­ secretaries Manickam Tagore, PC Vishnunadh and Madhu Goud Yaskhi (fourth secretary Sake Saijanath is abroad) ­ had shortlisted names for the KPCC president's post, Venugopal said, “You'll see what has been cleared by the month-end.“
 
 Dubbing the Karnataka gover nment under chief minister Siddaramaiah as “pro-poor and people-friendly“, Venugopal said, “The government's track record is excellent. But the communication gap in disseminating the government's schemes and policies to the public has to be plugged.“
 
 Party sources told TOI that the failure of the government in promoting its programmes was one of the problems that the team had highlighted.“Ministers have been advised to take MLAs and party workers along with them during visits to the districts, and promote government's schemes,“ sources added.
 
 Affirming that the party was united, Venugopal, however, admitted that there were bound to be differences in a democratic setup. “These differences can be settled in no time. The general consensus among the workers about the gover nment's performance is that it has been excellent,“ he added.
 
 “We have to strengthen the organisation at all levels.Where necessary, we will revamp the unit,“ said Venugopal, who also appreciated the work done by KPCC president and home minister G Paramashwara.
 
 On a complaint he had received from former minister H Vishwanath against Siddaramaiah, Venugopal said, “Vishwanath's my friend from the Parliament, and has told me he's still with the Congress.“
 
 The AICC team's visit appears to have galvanised the rank and file of the party, who, according to one leader, were growing restless owing to the lack of activity in the election year.
 
 The CM hosted a breakfast for Venugopal, his team, Parameshwara and KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao on Wednesday before the coordination panel meeting.
 
 
