PATNA: A day after   president Lalu Prasad and his family performed ‘rudrabhishek’ at their residence at 10, Circular Road in Patna, a 24-hour ‘ashthjam kirtan’ began at the official residence of Lalu’s son and Bihar health minister Tej Pratap Yadav at 3, Deshratna Marg on Tuesday

 The kirtan, believed to please Lord Vishnu, began at 4am and saw religious and folk singers chant ‘Hare Rama, Hare Krishna’ non-stop to the accompaniment of harmonium, ‘dholak’ and ‘jhaal’.
 
 Faced with court cases and CBI raids in connection with fodder scam and alleged benami assets, the Lalu family has apparently fallen back on the divinity for help. “The ‘ashthjam kirtan’ has been organised on the advice of Lalu’s family priest to correct the flawed positioning of their ‘nakshatras’ (constellations or stars), which is believed to be causing the family’s troubles,” said a Tej aide.
 
 According to him, the ‘kirtan’ was initially planned to be held for 48 hours beginning last Friday, but it was put off and cut short. It is being held in a hut made of bamboo.
 
 The folk singers are said to have come from Rohtas and Buxar districts, 100km away from Patna. Sources said a ‘bhandara’ (religious feast) would be organised to mark the culmination of the ‘kirtan’ on Wednesday morning.
 
 Earlier, the ‘rudrabhishek’ was performed from 4am to 7am on Monday at the official bungalow of Lalu’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi, where the family lives. 
 
 “Tej bhaiya is a highly religious person. He normally joins the daily prayers at his bungalow in the morning and evening. He turned vegetarian for the holy month of Shrawan that began on July 10,” his aide said.
 
 Tej is known to be a Lord Krishna worshipper. These days, however, he is seen wearing a wrist band and necklace of ‘rudraksh’, a seed worn by Lord Shiva devotees for protection from evils.
 
 The 29-year-old health minister reportedly organised a ‘dushman maran jaap’ (a religious ritual believed to ward off evil spirits) at his official residence in June.
 
 
