MUKTSAR/FEROZEPUR: Heirs of politicians of Punjab, who studied in prestigious schools and returned home with foreign degrees are braving the freezing cold and dusty streets, to campaign for their parents. Most either attended schools in the hills or have studied at colleges in the US and UK.

 Hira Sodhi, the 38-year-old son of Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Singh’s close aide and Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Sodhi, is busy chalking out social-media campaigns on Facebook and YouTube. “There was a time when I would prepare speeches for my father when I was studying at London School of Economics,” he says. “Punjab’s financial health is so bad that I don’t even need a degree to tell people about it,” he laughs. Hira runs schools and colleges in Ferozepur.
 
 Abhinav Choudhary has taken a 21-day leave to help out in the campaign of his mother and Congress candidate Aruna Choudhary in Dinanagar constituency. The 30-year-old works for a multinational company and is an Indian Institute of Management-Indore graduate. His specialization is in marketing, and he is using these skills to ensure his team puts up banners of his mother at strategic locations and lists her developments.
 
 Younger ones like Arjun Badal, another Doon School product, are busy preparing standees, procuring posters and finding dissidents in Bathinda Urban, from where his father, Manpreet Badal, is contesting on a Congress ticket.
 
 Besides, there is Amarinder's son Raninder. Both father and son are almuni of Doon School, Dehradun. While Amarinder made a last-minute announcement to fight from Lambi, the hot seat from where Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and AAP’s Jarnail Singh are fighting, he sent Raninder to look after the constituency.
 
 Raninder knows that his father can’t be present in Lambi, as he moves around the state and has to defend his main seat, Patiala Urban. “Anything for dad. He worked hard on the agricultural front. I am taking these issues forward. This constituency has been in trauma for 10 years. Besides, I have worked in this constituency before. My focus is on two things: one, to understand their grievances of cotton damage; and two, atta-dal unavailability. This is a very panthic area, as Talwandi Sabo is nearby. I still think we will reach number one spot; AAP will be number two and Akalis are out of competition,” says Raninder.
 
