CHANDIGARH: Nothing Dones Despite 2015 Amendment To   Act .Teachers in Chandigarh are yet to get a grievance   from the   department. In 2015, a new amendment in the Right To Education (RTE) Act had asked state governments to create   mechanisms for teachers at school, district, and state levels. 

 In UT, the process was initiated in 2014 itself, but nothing has been done so far to make it functional. In its 
 absence, there is no time bound decision on any grievance of teachers.
 
 The issue has been raised by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Teacher's Welfare Association (Ssatwa), UT Chandigarh, several times in the past, and they are all set to take up the issue again with the administration. 
 
 They held a meeting in this regard recently . Teachers under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan had met the then district education officer in 2014, and last year, they met director School Education Rubinderjit Singh Brar. They had also sent various reminders in this regard to the education department.
 
 Ssatwa president   said “We have sent many requests to different officials of the education depart ment to establish a teacher redressal mechanism under Section 38(N) and Section 21of the RTE Act, so that problems of teachers can be taken up at three levels -school management committees, district education officers, and director School Education.“
 
 He added “The formation of a teacher redressal mechanism is long overdue, and in its absence, teachers are facing many problems like nonacademic duties, clerical works, funds in-chargeships of SSA, Rashtriya Madhyamic Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA), and other funds, in violation of Section 27 of the RTE Act 2009.
 
  Further, teachers are at the receiving end due to frivolous complaints by parents. Due to lack of any supportive platform for teachers backed by law, teachers are at the receiving end. The suspention of two teachers and headmaster of Government High School (GHS), Hallomajra, is a glaring example, wherein teachers suffered for want of a teacher redressal mechanism,“ he added.
 
 “A teacher redressal mechanism will provide teachers a platform where they can raise their genuine problems, like burdening them with unequal time-tables, doctored annual confidential reports, delays in salary, and other day-to-day problems of working in schools,“ said another teacher.
 
 Brar said “DEO is the competent authority in this regard. We are always there for grievance redressal.“ The amendment in the RTE Act, asking state governments to make a grievance redressal mechanism for teachers had brought hope for teachers residing in the city, as they had been waiting for long for such a platform. But the UT education department has been sitting over this proposal by teachers since 2011, when the process was first initiated, but nothing has happened more than a meeting.
 
 According to the RTE Act, state governments have to create a mechanism for teachers to share their problems, at four levels -school, block, district, and state. However, the city (being a UT) will have only three levels, informed the teachers.
 
