HYDERABAD: Senior citizens in the city now have a reason to smile. A separate   will be opened soon in   ( ) where they will receive   without having to  

 A first of its kind facility in both private and government hospitals in the state, the special ward will provide speedy healthcare services to patients over 55 years. The ward will initially have 30 beds, a six-bedded Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and six ventilators. The wing will also have the capacity to deal with 150 outpatients on a daily basis.
 
 The geriatric ward is being set up under the ‘National Health Care Programme for Elderly’ scheme with an initial funding of Rs 2 crore from the Union government. 
 
  “We have already hired a professor. Two assistant professors will be appointed based on national notification for this ward. This is the second such ward in south India after Chennai,” Dr K Manohar Rao, director of Nims, told TOI. 
 
 The hospital authorities are also hoping that once the unit is operational, they will be able to include two post-graduate seats in geriatric medicine in the next academic year. The hospital wants to introduce eight new courses .
 
 Geriatric care is yet to evolve as a discipline in the country, but there is a growing need in the sector considering the shift in demographics and overall reduced mortality rates, say doctors. But limitations such time-consuming diagnosis and lack of opportunities prevent many doctors from specialising in the field.
 
 “Most elderly patients have orthopaedic problems. We have thus decided to purchase one bone densitometer,” said Rao. Other common problems among the elderly include dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, gastrointestinal disorders, and poor absorption of nutrients and diabetes.
 
 Apart from the geriatric ward, a separate ‘Kidney Tower’ is on the cards for the teaching hospital. This will be built in 16 acres of land allotted to the hospital adjacent to its present premises in Erramanzil.
 
 “In all the national-level medical institutes, the buildings constructed are being allotted to a particular decease. We want similar changes in Nims and the Kidney Tower will be the first step towards this,” a hospital official said. This will also provide quality care as statistics reveal that one-third of the patients visiting the hospital have kidney problems.
 
 The four outpatient buildings at the hospital will be shifted to new two buildings in the land allotted to Nims in Erramanzil. Another apex diagnostic specialty centre, will come up in the Millenium block at a cost of Rs 52 crore.
 
 
