HYDERABAD: Those who were part of the media in Delhi in the early nineties and covering the BJP would recall a familiar face in M Venkaiah Naidu as the party spokesperson at the daily briefings at the Ashoka Road party office. In hindsight, it was this phase that went on to cement his role and helped him project himself as not a party leader from the south but as a person who has his place in the BJP national hierarchy. From then on, there was no looking back. Growing from strength to strength in the BJP, Venkaiah went on to become party national president, served as union minister in the two NDA regimes and, now, is all set to become  , the second highest constitutional office in India.

 Venkaiah’s first half of the political career was rooted in his native Andhra Pradesh and the second one as a very important player of the party in national politics and the central government. Born to agricultural parents   and Ramanamma on July 1, 1949, in Chavatapalem in Nellore district, Venkaiah studied up to his degree college in Nellore town. His first foray into the politics was during the Jai Andhra Movement of 1972, when the coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions wanted to break away from AP citing injustice to them.
 
 While a student of PR College, he was elected president of the college students union. In 1973, he joined the ABVP and from then on, it was a one way ticket to success after success. In 1973-74, contesting on the ABVP ticket for the first time, Venkaiah went on to become president of the Andhra University College of Arts, Commerce & Law and was elected with one of the biggest margins. Until the formation of the BJP in 1980, Venkaiah was fascinated by Lok Nayak   Narayan and plunged headlong into the   of which JP was the guiding spirit.
 
 In 1977, he was elected president of the AP unit of the Janata Party for a period of three years. Riding high on his excellent communication skills, Venkaiah got elected to the AP Assembly twice from Udayagiri constituency in Nellore, first in 1978 and then in 1983. With the formation of the BJP, Venkaiah felt it was his homecoming call and has remained rooted with it since then. In 1983, he was elected leader of the BJP Legislature Party in AP. He went on to become BJP’s AP unit general secretary in 1985 and then as president of the state BJP in 1988. The moment Venkaiah completed his tenure as state party president in 1993, he moved to Delhi and became a major player in the BJP’s national politics.
 
 After serving in minor positions in the party at Delhi, Venkaiah became its spokesperson in 1993. In 1998, he was elected to the   and went on to remain a member of the upper house for three terms from Karnataka before shifting to rajasthan for his current fourth term. After working as rural development minister in the Atal Behari Vajpayee-led NDA government, Venkaiah was entrusted the important position of national BJP president. In the second NDA government under Narendra Modi, Venkaiah is currently urban development minister. Venkaiah and Ushamma have a daughter and a son.
 
 Since bifurcation of AP, the two Naidus, Venkaiah and chief minister Chandrababu, both of whom belong to the Kamma community, have worked in tandem for the development of the residuary state. Venkaiah’s elevation to a constitutional post may tie up his hands in the future and could make the going difficult for CM Naidu. But for the moment, Venkaiah is all set to enter into a different phase of his public life that is bound to be completely different from the one he has been playing till date.
 
 Venkaiah Naidu’s first foray into politics was during the Jai Andhra Movement of 1972, when the coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions wanted to break away from AP citing injustice . In 1973, he joined the ABVP and from then on, it was a one way ticket to success after success. He is currently urban development minister.Growing from strength to strength in the BJP, Venkaiah is all set to become the Vice President, the second highest constitutional office in India. 
 
