NAGPUR: BJP is facing a rebellion even before announcement of official candidates. The party’s city vice-president Bhushan Dadwe has filed his nomination form upset over BJP following politics of caste and not development.

 The BJP’s parliamentary board, comprising chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, began its meeting only on Wednesday evening to finalize and announce the first list of candidates on Thrsday. 
 
 Dadwe filed his nomination from seat-C in ward no-20 which is reserved for OBC. Though he has filed under BJP colours he is not sure of being given a ticket.
 
 “I have raised several issues and ensured development on a large scale in Central and East  . On submitting my form for a ticket to  , I learnt it is being given to someone from the Halba community. I am among the 12 OBC persons from the party to seek ticket from the ward. There are 68,000 voters in the ward of which 29,000 are ST and 8,000 are those from SC. It will be an injustice to me if I am not given the ticket. A candidate should be selected on merit and not on caste basis,” Dadwe told TOI.
 
 BJP sources told TOI that ex-corporator Bhaskar Parate, Deepraj Pardikar, Hemant Barde and Rajendra Dhakate were front-runners for tickets from ward no-20 from two seats — OBC and general.
 
 Similarly, BJP leader from West Nagpur and former chairperson of Dharampeth Zone, Shashikala Wade submitted her nomination form from the  . She filed papers from seat-A in ward 14 that is reserved for SC (women). Wade, a dalit leader, alleged that BJP only ‘use and throw SC people and do not care for their values’. 
 
 “I exposed some antisocial activities in a NMC-owned hall at Bhim Tekdi. I met mayor Pravin Datke and West Nagpur MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh for action but neither of them bothered to take action. I lodged a police complaint and ensured action. Women from the area have now taken over the hall. Therefore, I decided to quit BJP and have sought a Congress ticket,” she said.
 
 BJP leader from East Nagpur Ishwar Dhenge levelled serious allegations against East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde. “I am working for the party since 1990. Khopde is engaged in recommendation of tickets on caste basis,” he alleged.
 
 Some interesting scenario from ward no-20 has come to fore. BJP sitting   Ramesh Punkera, a Halba leader, joined Congress last month and will contest against BJP. Now, Congress sitting corporator Yashashri Nandanwar has reportedly joined BJP and to contest against Congress in the same ward.
 
 BJP is likely to face more rebellion once the tickets are declared. BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle claimed that there are no rebels. “BJP is a disciplined party and all will work unitedly for regaining power at the  ,” he said.
 
 
