A theft of a not-so-costly 22-inch   may not have been such a big deal, but for that to happen at state’s police headquarters is a matter of honour.
 
 Now, a   comprising of   has been constituted with a singular agenda to find that thief who has walked away with the LED TV screen from the state police headquarters which houses the offices of director general of police- and additional director general of police-ranked officials on Nrupathunga road.
 
 Interestingly, no one knows when the theft took place. The incident came to light only on Tuesday morning when the staff at DGP’s office reached the seventh floor where the conference hall is situated. The LED TV screen, which was right outside the conference hall, was missing. The incident took the higher authorities by surprise when they were informed about it – a theft from right under their noses!
 
 Immediately, the complaint was brought to the notice of the police top brass. State police chief, director general & inspector general of police RK Dutta told Bangalore Mirror, “The matter is being looked into and we have asked the ADGP (Admin) to form a committee to investigate the matter. Once we know the miscreants, action will be taken against them.”
 
 Immediately, a team was formed to find out the culprits. Kamal Panth, ADGP admin, told Bangalore Mirror, “It is a small screen which was put up outside the conference hall to see whatever is happening inside the hall. It is approximately two by two-and-a-half feet. It is not too costly; but something like this to happen at the DG&IGP’s office? That just cannot be ignored! We have an internal team – which includes the security force and the staff – which has been put on the job to investigate.
 
 We have also asked the jurisdictional police to look into the matter. There are 13 surveillance cameras in the campus. We will be examining each and every one of them frame by frame and track down the miscreants.”
 
 A first information report (FIR) has been registered at the Halasoor Gate police station on Tuesday evening under section 380 (theft in building) of Indian Penal Code. “We received a complaint from DGP’s office stating that a 22-inch LED TV has been stolen. We have taken up the investigation and we will very soon track down the miscreants,” said the Halasoor Gate police.
 
 
 
 
 
