PANAJI: The story of unwanted children of earlier times, be they illegitimate or otherwise, in no way makes for happy reading. Theirs was a destiny shrouded in obscurity with no inheritance privileges, one doomed to a life of servitude. Of these children, Goa had its fair share, to the extent that a well closeted tradition called poskim evolved around them.

 With his novel ‘Poskem - Goans in the Shadows’, Wendell Rodricks has brought the tradition from the shadows of the background to under the limelight.
 Talking about the catalyst behind the book, Rosa, a poskem who lived across the street from Rodricks in  , he says, “She looked after a big house and always appeared dejected and alone. We would often talk about food.” 
 
 “It was shocking to me as a person from the modern world that this practice went on for so many years. This happens in other countries too, and is not exclusive to Goa, but here they gave it a legitimate name. Not all of them suffered. Some of them led good lives, but others were treated like servants, kept in the shadows, weren’t sent to school, were abused and never got married. They were treated very badly in this day of human rights,” the noted fashion designer and author says. 
 
 Children, mostly girls, born outside wedlock or to families that couldn’t afford to look after them, were taken in as poskim by landed gentry. In some cases the illegitimate children of the family were not formally adopted, but kept as poskim.
 
 They were seldom treated like the other children of the house and often used as domestic help. “They were devoted to the family and were the real home keepers. Nothing could happen in the home without them knowing it. Very few were treated like daughters. Some responsible families would arrange for their marriages. In most cases the poskim would be resigned to their fate to die as spinsters or godmothers of the children of the family,” a historian said. 
 
 In other cases the poskim would be treated well as long as the parents were living. Sometimes the children of the family would want nothing to do with them and would send them away to shelter homes when they were older. 
 
 While researching for the book Rodricks says he found most people ashamed to talk about the custom. “People from   would say there were many poskim in the North while people in   would say it was the families living in large homes in South Goa that kept poskim. Everyone wants to distinguish themselves from this word. The tradition was even prevalent among the Goan diaspora,” he says. 
 
 The poskim had no legal heirship to the family property. “The poskim situation is an old arrangement without any legal framework. They didn’t inherit upon death of a Catholic adopter. Unless there was a will or a gift in their favour, they would get nothing by way of inheritance,” advocate Cleofato Coutinho says.
 
 Rodricks has set his story during the 1930s-1970s, his parents’ timeline and has cut across three countries India, Portugal and France. “What was sad about these people was that they always felt alone. On the one hand they belonged to a family, while on the other hand they found themselves on the abyss of nowhere. They really didn’t know where they belonged,’ Rodricks says.
 
 Almost all the incidents in the novel are based on true stories he heard from his mother and relatives, he says.
 
 “The next generation may not know about the poskim. I don’t want to blame people for having them. It was something that happened in the past. Sometimes history can be a shameful thing. This is part of Goan history. It’s not that it didn’t happen. I wrote the book to ensure that these secrets are not consigned to the forgotten secrets of Goans,” he says.
 
