Although many might argue the existence of one special day to celebrate womanhood, the earliest observation of this day occurred way back in 1909 in New York. The day was predominantly celebrated by the socialist movement and communist countries until it was adopted in 1975 by the United Nations. Over the years, cinema has had a major role to play in changing how a woman is perceived in our society. Some filmmakers went ahead to break the shackles and give us masterpieces that speak volumes on the rising force of feminism. We have handpicked few films, from 
  and 
 , that shaped the minds of the masses and paved way for a new wave of feminism. 

 
  
  
 This multi-starrer left no stone unturned to give us a quick check of ground reality. Starring Sandhya Mridul, Tannishtha Chatterjee, Sarah-Jane Dias, Anushka Manchanda, Amrit Maghera and Rajshri Deshpande, this Pan Nalin creation tackles numerous issues faced by Indian women such as gender inequality, objectification, rape, caste differences among others. 
 
 
 
 The show that came out in the 90s gave a crystal clear view of what women want. It went on to become a cult show and spawned two movies. Starring Sarah Jessica Parker, Kim Cattrall, Kristin Davis and Cynthia Nixon, ‘Sex And The City’ became every woman’s go-to show in no time. The show that is based on the 1997 book of the same name by Candace Bushnell, was a quirky series that had multiple continuing storylines. It tackled relevant and modern social issues such as sexuality, safe sex, promiscuity and femininity, while highlighting the characters’ respective romantic relationships.
 
 
 
 Set in the backdrop of a village, the storyline of ‘Parched’ is not for the faint-hearted. Starring Tannishtha Chatterjee, Radhika Apte and Surveen Chawla, the story talks of four women in a village, which is plagued by several social evils and age-old traditions of patriarchy, child marriage, dowry, marital rapes and physical and mental abuse. 
 
 
  
  
 A classic watch of the 90s, ‘Pretty Woman’ starring Richard Gere and Julia Roberts was a romantic comedy with a large budget. Those who have seen the film can relate with the powerful portrayal of Vivian (Julia Roberts), who lives her life on her own rules. ‘Pretty Woman’ was widely successful at the box-office then and became one of the highest-grossing films of 1990. 
 
 
  
  
 This Shoojit Sircar production was critically acclaimed and well-received by the masses. The courtroom drama directed by Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury featured 
 , Taapsee Pannu, Kirti Kulhari, Angad Bedi, Andrea Tariang, Piyush Mishra and Dhritiman Chatterjee. It highlighted the importance of sexual consent and asserted the idea ‘No means no’.
 
 
 
  
  
 Starring Meryl Streep, Anne Hathaway, Stanley Tucci, Simon Baker, Emily Blunt, ‘The Devil Wears Prada’ is based on Lauren Weisberger’s 2003 novel by the same name. The story revolves around the professional adventure of Andrea, whose greatest dream is to become a journalist. The hardships faced by her in maintaining the work-life balance and her quest to prove herself is what makes this film worth a watch. Streep’s phenomenal performance as the dangerous boss lady Miranda Priestly became iconic and is remembered even today. 
 
 
