YAVATMAL: The Shiv Sena has succeeded in mustering power over six out of 16   in  . The Congress has got five while   gets three chairman posts respectively. The   has been restricted to remain with its supremacy in Pusad while one remains vacant as there was no elected candidate for the chairmanship in Babhulgaon for which the election will be rescheduled later.

 The election of chairman and vice chairman of all the 16 Panchayat Samitis in Yavatmal district was held on Tuesday.
 
 The tally of vice chairman is: Shiv Sena (07), Congress (03), BJP (04) and NCP (02) respectively.
 
 There were unfriendly alliance adjustments in many of the PS for the chairman and vice chairman posts. The Shiv Sena has taken utmost care in keeping BJP out of power for which they have shaken hands with either Congress or NCP.
 
 The names of the newly elected chairman and their party as follows: 
 
 Shiv Sena (06): Eknath Tumkar (Yavatmal), Usha Chavan (Darwha), Indu Tisewar (Pandharkawda), Manisha Goley (Ner), Pravin Mirase (Umarkhed) and Vinod Jadhav (Digras). 
 
 Congress (05): Gajanan Kamble (Mahagaon), Sanjivani Kasar (Kalamb), Pravin Kokate (Ralegaon), Suriyakant Jaiswal (Arni) and Sheetal Pote (Maregaon). 
 
 BJP (03): Kalinda Atram (Ghatanji), Lisha Vidhate (Wani) and Lata Atram (Zarijamni). 
 
 NCP (01): Devba Maske (Pusad). Babhulgaon: vacant
 
 The names of Vice chairman and their party as follows:
 
 Shiv Sena (07): Gajanan Patil (Yavatmal), Pandit Rathod (Darwha), Ganesh Pangire (Pusad), Santosh Bodewar (Pandharkawda), Sameer Mahure (Ner), Sanjay Awari (Maregaon) and Keshav Rathod (Digras).
 
 Congress (03): Mahadev Kale (Kalamb), Nilesh Rothe (Ralegaon) and Nagorao Urwate (Zarijamni)
 
 BJP (04): Neeta Jadhav (Ghatanji), Sanjay Pimpalshende (Wani), Papita Bhakre (Arni) and Hemant Thakre (Babhulgaon).
 
 NCP (02): Sanjay Rathod (mahagaon) and Vishakha Jadhav (Umarkhed).
 
 Every eye is now set on the election of the ZP President and Vice President posts which is scheduled on March 21.
 
 The Shiv Sena is bent upon keeping a stone throw distance away from BJP as the MoS Sanjay Rathod was hurriedly striped off his District Guardian Minister post on the very night of the Chief Minister’s Kalamb visit and crowning the BJP minister Madan Yerawar with the DGM of Yavatmal. The resentment among the local Shiv Sena leaders over the CM’s arbitrary decision was reflected throughout the ZP and PS election and is still in the air which could be waded of only if the   dictates to go for an alliance with Enemy No1 BJP. 
 
