LUCKNOW: It's official now,   will step out of the Gandhi family borough of Amethi and Rae Bareli to campaign for the   alliance in Uttar Pradesh.
Congress on Tuesday released a list of 40 star campaigners for the first phase of   which includes party chief Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh and Priyanka, among others.
 
 While Priyanka's name has featured on Congress's list of star campaigners in the past too, notably in the 2014 Lok Sab ha polls, she has confined herself to Amethi and Rae Bareli. However, it is the first time that the party has issued a staggered list of star campaigners for the first phase, pointing to the exception it has made for Priyanka.
 
 In earlier years, Priyanka's name featured on the list to allow her to campaign in Amethi and Rae Bareli.
 
 Sources confirmed there was pressure on Priyanka to step out of the family pockets for canvassing. “She is likely to move beyond her traditional role,“ a senior leader said.
 
 The formal political launch of the Gandhi scion comes soon after Congress credited her with playing a key role in stitching together the alliance with SP. It also gives credence to speculation over the likelihood of Priyanka's electoral debut in 2019, replacing Sonia from Rae Bareli   seat.
 
 Priyanka has lately been engaged in the party's political planning like brother Rahul's Kisan Yatra in UP last September and alliancemaking with SP.
 
 Preliminary talks for the alliance, in fact, were conducted between Akhilesh Yadav and Priyanka at a closeddoor meeting at Ghulam Nabi Azad's house on December 14. The two have since been in touch over phone and text messages directly and through Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav.
 
 Priyanka's emergence also signals Congress's keenness to give everything it has to counter BJP, which is also throwing in its full might to win UP. While BJP is again depending on PM Narendra Modi to swing it for the saffron brigade, Congress is banking on the youthful four -Rahul, Akhilesh, Priyanka and Dimple.
 
