AHMEDABAD: “I am more content when I can give something to the needy.” These are the words of a beggar from Mehsana,  , who has been selected for ‘Literacy Hero Award’ by  . The award consists of prize money of Rs one lakh and a citation for philanthropy activities towards society. 

 Prajapati (68), famed for donating gold earrings to encourage girls' education, is among four individuals and one organization chosen for the award. 
 
 Interestingly, of the four individuals chosen for the award three are known activists and Prajapati is the only who is penniless. 
 
 Prajapati had shot to fame in February last year when he donated earrings to 10 Anganwadi girls in Magpara village school in Mehsana after collecting money through begging outside a Jain temple there. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Prajapati said, “I never expected such an honour for me because I never do things with any expectation. My only expectation is that the children should study, youths should be empowered and all should remain happy and contented. To fulfil that I keep roaming in villages and look for needy people and if I find someone, I help them with open hands.” 
 
 When asked about his philanthropic activities, Prajapati said that he does never count good deeds. “Only yesterday, I had given school uniform to some 12 girls. Before that, I had performed ‘Kanyadan‘ of three to four girls.”
 
 Excited over getting an award, Prajapti said, “I have never gone out of Mehsana, leave alone the state. I am happy and nervous at the same time. But, the almighty, who has given me strength to help others, will keep helping me.”
 
 The organizers of the event are busy to accommodate flight tickets and hotel stay for Khimji. 
 
 Kalpesh Shah, chairman, Rotary Club of Mehsana (literacy), said, “We will provide him all the comfort during his journey and stay at Chennai where he will receive award on March 3.”
 
 Others who will receive the award include Rajesh Kumar Sharma- a grocery store owners who runs a school for underprivileged kids in Delhi, Achyut Das- a well known development activist from Bhuwneswar and Shima Modak- a Shillong-based education activist. A Delhi-based organisation Aspire is the fifth award winner.
 
 
