Nagpur: After Tata Memorial Hospital (Mumbai), the RST Regional Cancer Hospital (RCH) is in the process of becoming the go-to destination for cancer patients in the state. Under the central government’s scheme, the 100 bed RCH will be upgraded into a state-of-the-art 250-bed Tertiary Care Cancer Centre (TCCC) with hi-tech equipment. The existing G+1 building will give way to G+9 floor building with two floor basement parking. TCCC will also host several new departments along with the new hospital. RST TCCC will be the second such centre after TMH to begin DNB courses in oncology. The state had proposed RST and Vivekanand Medical Foundation hospital in Latur to be developed as TCCCs, while Government Medical College and Hospital (Aurangabad) was proposed as State Cancer Institute (SCI). All the three proposals were approved by the Centre but as of now money has been released only to RST. The entire project at RST will cost Rs 45 crore of which state government is supposed to contribute 25%. The Centre has released Rs 15.60 crore to State government as first instalment. Through a Government Resolution (GR) Rs 12.07 crore was released to RST on July 15and Rs 1.81 crore was released on July 17. An official from RST told TOI, “We are in the process of appointing consultants. We are likely to begin construction of new building this year. Our target is that TCCC should start functioning from mid-2019.” He said, “With tertiary care, we aim to provide all types of hi-tech cancer treatment to the poor, which until now only the rich could afford.” The new building would come towards the back of existing structure. “We will retain four bunkers where cancer treatment is carried out but most of the existing structure would be demolished in phases so that treatment is not hampered at any time,” he said. Rs 33 crore will be spent on equipment alone. RST already has one Linear Accelerator (LA), two Cobalt Machines, one High Dose Rate Brachytherapy machine. With TCCC, it would add another LA costing Rs 12 crore, along with nuclear imaging and PET scan costing Rs 10 crore, MRI machine and Gama Knife. RST has staff of around 150 including specialists. This will rise to over 300 once it becomes a TCCC. Apart from the existing departments like Head and Neck, Surgery, Gynaec, radiation and medical oncology; four new departments like paediatric oncology, haemato oncology to begin Bone Marrow Transplant (BMT) and neuro-oncology are going to be added. On the academic front, RST has been offering DMLT and nursing courses. The plan is to begin DNB courses. The official added, “we offer courses for assisting staff now. With DNB we now aim to reach medical fraternity.”