It has been a few days since the 10%   in restaurants was made optional. While diners, tired of paying the multiple taxes and charges everytime they eat out, welcomed the move, restaurateurs were obviously not thrilled by it. Some even declared that those not willing to pay service charge were welcome not to eat at their establishments. If you are wondering whether to ask for the service charge to be waived off the next time you eat out, we did a survey of Delhi’s three major F&B hubs –  ,   and Hauz Khas Village. While there is not one single trend across the markets, most places in CP and   have put up notices telling customers if they levy the 10% service charge or not. However, this is not the case in Khan Market, perhaps because of its more well-off clientele. 

 Irrespective of whether or not they have put up a notice about service charge, most restaurants are adding it to the bill as usual, and if a customer brings it up, they are willing to waive it off. There are also a few places that are waiting for a formal notice to make service charge optional. However, there are also quite a few places that are making it clear to their customers that the service charge is not optional. In a few cases, if the customer asks for the charge to be waived off, the restaurant staff is quick to ask, “humne aapki itni achhi service ki, humara paisa kaatke aapko kya milega?” After which, speechless customers have no choice but to pay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A staff member at Town Hall said, “We are charging service charge as usual, since we haven’t received anything in writing so far.” The staff at Blue Door Café was not clear about the rules, and on asking their seniors, they were told that “we are not making it optional. There is no formal order till now, so we are charging it.” Kamal Sood from Boombox Café, added, “In Khan Market, the customer profile is different from other places, and not many would mind paying 10% service charge.” Even at  , a staff member said, “It is optional, but none of our guests have brought it up so far.” 
 Some customers in Khan Market told us that they were not sure if they should ask for the service charge to be waived off. “It gets a bit embarrassing to ask for it. Especially when there are people around, and you have actually had a good time and a great meal,” said Pooja Vashisht, who was hanging out in Khan Market. 
 
 
 
 The staff at one restaurant told us that within a few hours of the news coming out, the guests started showing the news update on their phones and refused to pay the service charge. A staff member at Out of The Box café, told us, “Within two days, we waived off service charge from five-six bills. But when we asked them where the service was lacking, they did not have any clear answer.” 
 Instead of an outright refusal to make service charge optional, the staff at Big Chill Café tried another method. We heard one staff member telling a customer, “Humne itni mehnat ki hai, government ne optional kiya hai, par agar humari service mein koi kami nahin hai toh humara paisa kaatna galat hai.” This argument was met with a smile from the customer, who said, “You cannot argue after this point.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Amber Cafe and Restaurant at Connaught Place is levying the service charge (BCCL)
 
 
 
 If any customer is pointing it out that it is optional, then the restaurant staff is waiving it off without creating any fuss. AK Goyal, managing director of Desi Vibes, told us, “We are not taking the service charge but we haven’t put up any notice stating the same. In the past too, when our customers did not not approve of paying the service charge, we waived it off.” The menu of the restaurant, however, still had the line printed at the bottom, ‘Service charge extra’. When we inquired about this to the managing director, he said, “This was printed a long time ago, so we are going to remove it now.”
 While Desi Vibes was still using its old menu, the Junkyard Cafe right next to it was careful in adding a line on its menu – ‘We do not levy service charge’. Sandeep Chaudhary, manager of the cafe, told us, “The day when the notification came, we ensured that we got this line added to our menu.” Kamlesh Verma, manager of My Bar, said, “We haven’t received any notification till now, that is why we are still taking the service charge. Abhi toh bas news mein aaya hai, humare paas toh kuch nahi aaya. But if someone wishes not to pay the charge, then we aren’t taking it from them.”
 
 
 
 The restaurant staff at different cafes in CP said that they are not very clear with the notification. “If they had clearly stated that we should not take the service charge, then we would have completely waived it off. It’s not optional right now. We will waive it off, when the formal notice comes,” said IM Sandhu, manager of Amber. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Though many cafes had put up printouts stating that they are levying 10% service charge, but many of these notices are difficult to take notice of. While most of the restaurants have put them in a corner near the entrance, the Warehouse Cafe had put up the printouts in its washrooms. When asked why the washrooms, Sangeeta Dutta, manager of Warehouse, said that she didn’t know much about it.
 
 
 
 The customers had mixed reactions about paying the service charge. “I don’t mind paying the service charge. I have come here to celebrate my birthday, if the service is good, I will pay the charge,” said Soni Singh from Lajpat Nagar, who was going to the Warehouse cafe. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Customers dining at Bulldogs restaurant in HKV (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 When we visited HKV, most restaurants in Hauz Khas Village had put up notices stating if the service charge is mandatory or optional. 
 At Social, there were notices right at the entrance as well as inside the restaurant. If a customer asked for the service charge to be waived off, the staff pointed at the notices that clearly state that the service charge is mandatory. 
 At Bulldogs, notices stating that service charge is optional were displayed at the bar and near the billing area. “We are informing guests that it is optional,” a staff member said.
 Among those who haven’t put up a notice yet, are The Beer Café, Maquina and Barcelos. “We haven’t put any notice so far, and not many guests have asked us to deduct the service charge,” said a staff member at Maquina.
 A few visitors at Hauz Khas Village, who were deciding on a place to hang out with their friends, told us, “All of us are students, and for us even 10% counts. Who takes a note of giving us service, when one is drunk? So why pay that 10% extra? Once there is clarity on the matter, we can demand or fight for it, but not right now.”
 
 
