HYDERABAD:  's Courser and  , the critically endangered birds of Andhra Pradesh, got a new 'lease of life' with the Centre according priority to these avian species in   2017-31. The birds were earlier included in the five-year species recovery plan, which ended with a whimper last year.

 Now, an alternative habitat for these birds will be identified and developed in the next four years to save these birds from extinction.
 
 Jerdon's Courser is endemic to Andhra Pradesh and thrives only in   in Kadapa district.Only a handful of Jerdon's Coursers are believed to be alive, though the bird was last seen a decade ago. Incidentally, the species became `extinct' and was `rediscovered' twice in last 180 years. It went extinct in 1846 and 1900, but sighted in 1986. The place of its `reappearance' in Kadapa has been declared a wildlife sanctuary.
 
 The Great Indian Bustard is also critically endangered and lives in six states in India, including Andhra Pradesh. Only 300 birds are estimated to exist in the world. Number of birds in its exclusive sanctuary, Rollapadu in Kurnool district, has seen a sharp dip, according to researcher Mohammed Ghouse of   in Kurnool. Telangana or any other south Indian state does not have this bird. Centre's latest wildlife action plan calls for “safeguarding genetically pure populations from future genetic contamination“. It also lays emphasis on identification of “suitable alternative homes for species with single isolated populations such as Jerdon's Courser“. The Centre proposes to create alternative habitat for this rare bird by 2021. The task has been entrusted to AP forest department. The Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change will supervise the action plan.Technical support will be taken from scientific and research institutions to achieve the goal.
 
 Though the Great Indian Bustard was covered under the previous national wildlife action plan that ended in 2016, the Centre could not carry out studies to evaluate the ecosystem services of this fragile bird species.
 
 “Less than 300 birds exist in India. Thanks to agricultural activity, the habitat is disturbed. This resulted in decline of the Great Indian Bustard population,“ said Mohammed Ghouse.
 
 The Great Indian Bustard is often hunted down, leading to decline in its population. There is also unchecked encroachment of the bird's natural habitat.Researchers also attribute the decline in numbers to increased human activity.The birds, which are shy, are known to leave their nests when disturbed.
 
