KOLKATA: Apollo  , which has been the epicentre of the controversy that has put the entire private healthcare sector under scanner and led to the formation of a new bill, is on its toes to bring about reforms on its own. Series of meetings are being held on corrective measures that promises to make the hospital more patient-friendly.

 According to insiders, the hospital may announce a slew of measures in the days to come. These may include revising rates for hospital services, including treatment and diagnostic tests, asking doctors to go for only the essential diagnostic tests and pay heed to the patients’ grievances. 
 
 “The most common grievance of inflated bills may be true in some cases. A more   will help reduce the tussle between the hospital and patients. In addition, counselling of families, both on billing and treatment procedure, right from Day 1 should be a regular practice,” said a senior doctor of the hospital.
 
 The doctors, as well those in the administration, have been told to be empathatic with patients and their relatives. And whenever a patient’s relatives raise some issues, the administration has been asked to talk to them immediately and resolve the problems.
 
 On Friday, an air of apprehension hung over Apollo. The employees were jittery after the resignation of Dr Rupali Basu, the former CEO (east). With the group’s officials from Chennai headquarters expressing unhappiness on how the hospital was being run, many fear that more heads may roll. 
 
 “With so much internal inquiry in process, you never know when the axe will fall again. I hope the controversy settles down and normalcy returns soon,” said a doctor.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she was abreast of the decisions the hospital has been taking. “Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has sent me a detailed report. They have also apprised me of the decisions taken. They have taken steps against certain people. They are doing their bit. This is good,” the CM said in the assembly on Friday.
 
 The hospital, through a press release, said that issues mentioned by the CM were being investigated by the hospital advisory committee. “Appropriate action will be taken based on the outcome of the investigation,” said the statement.
 
 
