MUMBAI: Fund managers and analysts are watching   closely as   steps in.
 
  While the new chairman will have to work on strengthening the group’s reputation — it took a severe beating with Cyrus Mistry’s ouster — what works for Chandrasekaran is his deep inside knowledge of the conglomerate. Since Tata Consultancy Services, the company he headed, is a technology provider to several Tata companies, he will also have a sense of functioning as well as strengths and weakness of their businesses, said analysts. But change at the top alone cannot trigger a stock rally, they felt.
  
  Clarity in leadership has mitigated uncertainty to a large extent but stock movement depends a lot on fundamentals, Gaurav Dua, head of research at Sharekhan, pointed out. Since the day Mistry was removed as group chairman, the 22 listed Tata companies lost Rs 47,543 crore in market value. But, according to analysts, most of the loss was due to external factors such as protectionist moves in the western markets that pulled down most IT stocks, including that of TCS. They peg loss due to group-specific issues at Rs 13,688 crore.
  
  The feud has not affected operations of Tata companies as each is managed by its own CEO, said Siddharth Sedani, vice-president of equity sales at Anand Rathi Share & Stock Brokers. Raamdeo Agrawal, chairman of Motilal Oswal Asset Management, said developments since late October could have left a minor impact on margins. But in the long term, stock movement will be earnings based, he said.
  
  Having a person who knows the Tata culture at the helm has brought a sigh of relief. “Stocks will behave sentiment positive but it will also depend on the individual earnings of the company,” said Sedani of Anand Rathi. There is a plausible explanation for performance of three Tata scrips and it has nothing to do with the Mistry-Tata feud. TCS, which accounts for almost 85% of the group’s market cap, mirrors a trend similar to other IT outsourcers. Ajay Bodke, CEO at Prabhudas Lilladher, said its performance was weighed down by hostile voices from the Trump camp in the US.
  
  In the case of Tata Motors, market price has benefited from the fall in the pound. A significant portion of Tata Motors’s revenue and profit comes from UK-based Jaguar Land Rover. Thus, a cheaper pound means more rupees. The   stock is up because of a boom in commodity prices, Bodke said. Nevertheless, investors that ET spoke to want Chandrasekaran to effectively address every issue raised by Mistry. The Tata Group, in order to keep its reputation intact, must be above suspicion, they said.
  
  JN Gupta, cofounder of Stakeholders Empowerment Services, a proxy advisory firm, said Chandradekaran should not rest on market cap performance alone, but ensure that all issues raised by Mistry are tackled and investors assured that there is no truth in allegations. “Such an action by Chandra, supported by proper facts, would doubly assure investors of governance and restore credibility of the Tata group,” he said.
  
  Bulk of the fall in total market cap at the group is shared by two companies — TCS and Tata Motors —which also accounted for almost 90% of drop in market value. While Mistry had raised governance issues at Tata Motors, he had not highlighted any such issues at TCS. Still TCS alone has contributed about 64% to total loss of market value. Likewise, Voltas, Titan and Rallis, which too reported sharp drop, didn’t see major issues raised by Mistry, said an SES report.
  
  A top fund manager on the conditions of anonymity said the new Tata Sons chairman will have to spend time with management teams of operating companies to understand challenges and the group perspectives. “Chandra will have to handhold the new CEO at TCS for a while,” he said. 
