HYDERABAD: Three House Committees constituted by the   to look into various issues including encroachments and allotment of   land especially in Hyderabad, irregularities in housing societies, and encroachment of government land, have made no progress in the past two years. 

  appointed the committees in January, 2015 with instructions that the committee chairmen submit their reports in three months. With the reports not coming in, the tenures were extended from time to time. 
 
 Many land parcels belonging to Wakf are either confined to documents or have no existing records as they have gone missing. In many other cases, Wakf land has been sold, especially in the city, by the previous governments to private firms. It was to probe all these issues that a committee headed by MLA Bajireddy Govardhan Reddy and 12 other MLAs was constituted. Many a time, Majlis Ittehadul-E-Muslimeen MLAs raised the issue of missing or encroached Wakf land in the   but to no avail. This particular   was to enquire about the total extent of Wakf land, whether encroached or under illegal occupation, allotted land, especially in Hakimpet village in Ranga Reddy district and irregularities if any in allottment of Wak land to others as well as measures to protect the land. Interestingly, the Department of Cooperation had inquired into alleged irregularities in all the major housing societies such as Filmnagar society and Venkateshwara society and the inquiry officers confirmed irregularities in allotting plots and other issues. "The House Committee held a couple of sittings and even went on site visits. We will submit the report soon to the Assembly," housing societies committee chairman A Ramesh said.   panel on government land encroachments headed by Medchal MLA M Sudheer Reddy is learnt to have not even begin collecting basic data. "The committee met only once in the past two years and visited Rampur village in   district where land was allotted to ex-minister Ponnala Laxmaiah ," Sudheer Reddy told TOI. 
 
