MUMBAI:   told TOI that if the BJP makes a bid to  , then the   will be united against the defectors.

 “The opposition has power. In the recent elections to the teachers' and graduates' constituencies, we contested the polls together and ensured the defeat of BJP nominees,“ Pawar said. The NCPCongress combine is regrouping a day after the BJP core committee drafted a plan: either to go in for midterm polls or engineer defections in the   and Congress.
 
 The core committee comprising chief minister Devendra Fadanvis, state BJP chief Raosaheb Danve and senior ministers Vinod Tawde, Sudhir Mungantiwar, Chandrakant Patil and Pankaja Munde on Thursday discussed an action plan to get rid of the Shiv Sena, which has emerged as the “opposition“ despite it being a part of the ruling alliance. In view of its good showing in the civic and zilla parishad polls, the BJP expects it will secure 148 seats out of 288 seats in the state assembly , if midterm elections are held. Given its current strength in the House, the BJP requires the support of 23 legislators to reach the halfway mark. According to reports, 15 legislators of the Congress and 14 from NCP are in touch with the BJP . If they join the BJP , then they will have quit and contest the polls afresh.
 
 Taking note of the outcome of the BJP core committee meeting, Pawar met with leader of opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil (Congress), former chief ninister Prithviraj Chavan and group leaders of opposition parties. The chances of defection in the NCP-Congress combine are bleak, however, in the event some legislators shift their loyalties, then the entire opposition will ensure that the defectors are defeated.“On behalf of the entire opposition, there will be only one candidate against the defector. We will ensure that the defector will not succeed,“ Pawar said.
 
 Pawar slammed the suspension of 19 opposition legislators, saying that it was to save the government.
 
 I am not quitting Congress, but Chavan & Nirupam unable to lead party: Rane
 
 A mid reports that he is likely to quit the party, senior Congress leader Narayan Rane on Friday launched a frontal attack on state unit chief Ashok Chavan and city head Sanjay Nirupam for failure to provide able leadership.
 
 “I am not quitting the Congress, but it is on the verge of collapse due to weak leadership at the state and Mumbai levels. In all the recent polls, there was a steady downfall and no corrective steps were taken. Key issues were brought to the notice of the Congress high command, but there was no response,“ Rane told TOI. Since the rout of the Congress in the 2014 Lok Sabha and state assembly polls and elections to zilla parishads (ZP) and municipal corporation, Rane had taken on Chavan. Rane himself lost the assembly polls in 2014 and a byelection from Bandra in the subsequent year. Rane was elected to the legislative council. His son, Neelesh, too was defeated in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. However, the Congress emerged victorious in the ZP polls in Sindhudurg, which is Rane's turf. 
 
