Nagpur: The current National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) grading pattern would be abolished with the introduction of an automated system from next month. The new accreditation software has been launched on the NAAC website and would eventually minimize the role of peer team that used to assess higher education institutions earlier.

 NAAC adviser Jagannath Patil, who was in the city on Sunday, said in the new grading scheme, 70% score would come from the automated system while only 30% would be in the hands of peer team, which comprises former VC, subject experts and experienced principals. “The philosophy behind this move is paradigm shift. The entire process is going online and institutes would now need to fill all the data online with supporting documents. There would be no room for fudging,” he said.
 
 Patil delivered a talk during the two-day state-level principal’s conference at Dhanwatey National College.
 
 Speaking on the sidelines, he said the prime minister’s office (PMO) and the human resource development ministry are trying to ensure that this method is transparent and accurate.
 
 “We would be having third party to assess the data submitted by colleges and universities. Agencies like Crisil and ICRA would be roped in for Data Verification and Validation (DVV). After this, the data would be fed in the system that will give the 70% score of the assessment,” Patil said.
 
 The rest of the 30% will depend on peer team visit for checking infrastructure, number of teachers and students and other factors. 
 
 Another important aspect of the system would be direct feedback from students. “A students’ satisfaction survey will be done. NAAC will directly send link to the students’ mobile number. Using it, the students will submit their views,” Patil said.
 
 He said the system is full proof as no party (peer team, private agency and students) would know about the score of the other.
 
 Patil added that now institutions will have to focus on outcome based learning. “Every college will also have to submit data regarding the outcome of the learning,” he said.
 
 Some city principals sounded critical of the move. “Influential people will continue to manage things for their benefit. They have been doing it and no system can prevent them from managing the scores. You can look at some colleges where they don’t have any great facilities yet they are getting good NAAC scores,” they said.
 
 
