New Delhi: A 13-year-old girl who went   from her home in Taimoor Nagar two months ago returned to the neighbourhood. The minor is three weeks   after allegedly having married a 22-year-old youth. Her father had registered a missing person complaint at New Friends Colony police station and had also approached a local court. The court has sent the girl to stay at a women’s home run by an NGO in south Delhi.

 The father separately informed senior police officers that he had to spend a big sum of money driving the investigating officer to various places, including villages in UP, to collect evidence against the people he suspected of abducting his daughter. The south-east district police have ordered a probe into this allegation.
 
 Romil Baaniya, DCP (Southeast), said that along with the youth, two other men who had stood witness to the former’s marriage to the minor were also arrested. The officer added that efforts were on to identify the others involved. A case of kidnapping under Section 363 of the Indian Penal code has been registered against the men. Provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act have also been invoked.
 
 The girl’s father, a driver on contract to the  , claimed to TOI that the Class VIII student was abducted on May 13 by 12 men who lived in the same neighbourhood in Taimoor Nagar. “I was away in Bathinda in   for work and found her gone when I returned home,” he said.
 
 What followed was a frustrating search for her. “I took the investigating officer in my car and drove to addresses in   that I had managed to find,” the father claimed. “I spent a few days at each place searching for my daughter, running up an expense of Rs 47,000. We went on two such trips in the past month.”
 
 The man asserted that he was able to gather evidence that the girl had been abducted and convinced some eyewitnesses to appear in court. He claimed, however, that the IO took no action despite introducing the witnesses to him. This forced him to approach a local court that ordered the arrest of the accused on charges of kidnapping a minor girl.
 
 The three men who have been arrested worked as cooks at an eatery in Jamia Nagar. The girl’s father told TOI that the accused men claimed to have been meeting the girl for five years. He said this was a lie since he moved with his family to Taimoor Nagar only two years ago. The father also accused the family of the youth who now claimed to be the husband of his daughter of trying to influence the juvenile against her parents.
 
