The   (PMC) has decided to carry out a   in the city this year, as it does not know the exact population of the four-legged animal. They also want to figure out the amount required to sterilise dogs at the end of every year. Currently, the   only keeps the record for  .

 Anjali Sabane, PMC’s assistant medical officer, said, “From this year, we will start a dog census in the city. The state government has given directives to carry out the census of pet as well as stray dogs.”
 
 She further said, “Every year, the corporation spends around Rs 60 lakh on dog sterilisation. Also, there is a system in place to avoid to avoid unnecessary re-sterilisations. Currently, private agencies are given the job on contract. After the census, we will have the exact numbers and will allocate the sterilisation money accordingly. By doing this, we will get to know the impact of sterilisation.”
 
 Dr PN Wagh, civic body’s veterinary superintendent, said, “We will conduct the census from July to September 2017. We have floated advertisements regarding the same as we will need at least 200 people for the task. A Pimpri- Chinchwad-based organisation has shown interest in the activity. They have proposed recording the census details on table accompanied with photographs.”
 
 Currently, PMC has awarded sterilisation contracts to three organisations — the Animal Rights Fund,   and the   to Animals. These non-governmental organisations (NGOs) catch the dogs, sterilise them and release them back in the same area they were caught from.
 
 The Animal Rights Fund covers the Kothrud area, with a sterilisation centre inside Kothrud depot. The Animal Protection Club has a sterilisation centre at Malwadi, Hadapsar, while the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has one at the PMC dog pound, Naidu Hospital.
 
 These NGOs identify a locality and visit it on a daily basis to capture dogs for sterilisation. They also work on the complaints received by PMC headquarters and work on an ad hoc basis. The NGOs have their own vans to catch stray dogs.
 
 According to the corporation records, 9,000 dogs have been sterilised in 2016-17. They had identified 52,000 stray dogs in the city in 2015- 16. As far as the present situation goes, they have shown 50,000 dogs in their environmental status report (ESR). However, these numbers have been put forth by the PMC without carrying out a census.
 
