NEW DELHI: While urging   to sack the   government for "impropriety" found by the  , BJP has also decided to make the findings a talking point in the civic poll campaign. 

 Union minister and party in charge for civic polls,  , alleged that the report had found several cases of misuse of power for which Kejriwal should be answerable. She said there was no point in having a CBI inquiry as demanded by Congress, as the findings were conclusive and a fit case to initiate action against government.
 
 She accused the AAP government of encouraging nepotism and making "flamboyant and illegal" decisions. "The attempt by Delhi government is violative of established legal and constitutional positions and we demand clarification from AAP and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal," she said.
 
 "The kind of information in the Shunglu Committee report pertains very seriously to issues of propriety and making decisions on subjects wherein it (AAP government) has no role to play," she said. 
 
 "Nikunj Agarwal's appointment as OSD to health minister is under the scanner as he is a relative of Arvind Kejriwal. What brings Nikunj Agarwal and nobody else on that position?" she asked. 
 
 She questioned the appointment of Delhi health minister  's daughter, an architect by profession, to head a Mohalla Clinic related body, terming it as the "worst case of nepotism".
 
 "What is odd is that the Kejriwal government, instead of replying to the findings of the Shunglu Committee, is dubbing the LG-appointed committee as illegal," she added.
 
 Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said the AAP government should be suspended as "not just one but many faults have been found by the Shunglu Committee in 404 government files." Leader of opposition in Delhi assembly,  , alleged that deputy CM Manish Sisodia and cabinet minister Satyendar Jain travelled in first class on their visit to Sao Paulo for which they are not entitled to.
 
 Gupta said about 80 posts were created in different departments by the elected government for no reason and the entire system had collapsed under AAP's regime. 
 
 
