PUNE: A review meeting conducted by chief minister   in the first week of December revealed that in the first phase of improving quality of all 33,000   in the state, only 15,000 have been able to meet the target.

 The state education department failed to meet the key result areas (KRA) set by the chief minister in 2015.
 
 The CM has now set a new target of four months with a fast forward programme of improving school standards that requires teachers to introduce digital classrooms, producing e-learning content, enrol out-of-school children into classrooms among other things.
 
 State education secretary   said on Monday, “As per the targets set by the CM to make state board schools progressive, the improvement in primary schools was poor. Now, with a new deadline to improve quality of education by matching standards set in the Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra (PSM), a policy adopted by the state government in 2015 to improve quality of education, schools that are lacking will have to pull up their socks and meet set standards.”
 
 “In the first phase, the CM had instructed that 50 % primary schools, 25 % higher primary schools and 20 % secondary schools should be equipped enough to be declared progressive. However, the review meeting revealed that more than 50% of the set target of primary schools were lagging behind. These schools now get a period of two to maximum four months to improve on the fast track programme,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The overhaul will include digitisation of classrooms by installing a 32 inch or bigger screen, a tablet if possible for every student, and an interactive board.
 
 On the other hand , teachers on the ground feel that this digitisation maybe difficult in rural areas. Bhausaheb Chaskar, a Zilla Parishad teacher said, "As per the government notification schools have been told to obtain LCD projectors and large screen TVs form local contributions which includes public participation and industry. It is a difficult to convince the public which is mainly villagers to contribute for LCD screens. Convincing them to send their children to schools is a big task in itself and if we achieve it we call it success. If we start asking them to contribute for purchasing these things then attendance will drop." 
 
 If schools are able to install the screens and TV then the government may give such schools an additional tablet as an incentive.
 
 In the PSM document, teachers need to know all the technology related advancements in education and its usage but according to the education department only 48,611 teachers in Maharashtra of the total 7.25 lakh are tech-savvy. A field officer from Bhor said, “Many teachers here are unaware of using a smartphone so convincing them to learn is difficult. Many of them are on the verge of retirement completely ignore such initiatives.”
 
 
