New Delhi: BJP launched its campaign for the upcoming municipal elections on Friday. With “Naye chehre, nai urja, nai udhan; Dilli mange kamal nishan” as its tagline, the party promised to make Delhi “digital by default”.

 Pushing for PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Digital India’ initiative, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “Our aim is to make Delhi digital by default, just like Ahmedabad and BJP-ruled corporations in many other states.”
 
 Tiwari unveiled the first campaign poster with photographs of Modi, BJP chief Amit Shah and his own, and launched the election song, ‘Bhajpa dil mein, dil mein… bhajpa Dilli mein’. Tiwari said that the party, which is eyeing a third term in the corporations, will run a “positive campaign” as people are well aware of the “misdeeds” of the ruling AAP government in Delhi. “Our main focus will be to tell people how BJP will work for their welfare,” he said addressing a press conference.
 
 BJP attacked the AAP government for the alleged scams and Congress for its “misrule”. “People are aware of the scams. Today, people know the AAP government has spent Rs 97 crore of taxpayers’ money on their publicity. One of their ministers is involved in a land scam,” alleged Tiwari.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who is heading the election management committee, hit out at Congress for doing little for improving the quality of life of people in the metros. “Congress has viewed the corporations and urban population as milking cow. Their aim was just to get revenue. In Mumbai, construction of flyovers started after Nitin Gadkari took over as Union transport minister. Metro work in Delhi was pushed by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government,” said Sahasrabudhhe. 
 
 Stressing the party’s commitment towards improving civic services, Sahasrabuddhe cited work done by BJP-ruled corporations. “BJP is ruling more than 72 civic bodies in India and have done remarkable work. In Nagpur, we are selling sewer water to generate electricity and manure. Ahmedabad has the best BRT system. The newly-appointed deputy CM of UP, Dinesh Sharma, had developed a ‘Kanha Upvan’ for stray animals in Lucknow during his stint as mayor. There are many examples, which we aim to emulate here,” he said.
 
 Interestingly, BJP did not have much to highlight the achievements of the three civic bodies where the party is in power for a decade. “Those who promised CCTVs didn’t do much. All Delhi MPs have got CCTVs installed by paying Rs 6 crore. With the Centre’s assistance, the corporations are replacing streetlights with LED lights. This will help them save money,” said Tiwari.
 
