CHANDIGARH: At a time when the entry of the first turbaned Sikh, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, and the first Sikh woman MP ­ Preet Kaur Gill in UK parliament is being celebrated, the only two turbaned   in the House of Lords may soon have to go.The Lord Speaker's committee is looking at reducing the size of the House after the upper chamber agreed unanimously to this on December 5, 2016, and also sought ways for achieving this.

 It is expected to recommend compulsory retirement for members at age of 80, and the two turbaned members will be hit by this.
 
 British media has reported that the committee is expected to recommend forced retirement at 80 next month, which means that one-fifth of the peers will face the axe. Both turbaned Sikh Lords are in the 80 plus club Indarjit Singh is 85, and  , 82. Lord Indarjit Singh is a British journalist, broadcaster and also director of the   (UK) while Lord Suri is a businessman and former general secretary of the Board of British Sikhs.
 
 This would leave Sikhs without any representation in the Lords Sikh Federation (UK). The federation, which had earlier called for reforms in the House of Lords, has in a turnaround now argued that the House of Lords reforms could leave Sikhs with no representation in the Lords.
 
 It has called for the need to ensure better representation for those who are presently under represented in the British parlia ment.
 
 In recent correspondence with the six-member committee, the Sikh Federation (UK) had said, “Until the last general election there were no Sikh MPs, when there should be seven or eight MPs based on the Sikh population. We now have a first turban-wearing Sikh MP and the first Sikh woman MP, but only because of special circumstances as a result of the snap election." “Despite the size and excellent reputation of the well-established Sikh community we are also hugely under-represented in the House of Lords. The much smaller Jewish community has 29 Lords (and 15 MPs), the Hindu community that is comparable in size has 18 Lords (and around a dozen MPs) and the larger Muslim community has 17 Lords (and around 18 MPs)," it argued.
 
