COIMBATORE/SALEM: The announcement of   general secretary V K   being elected as the legislature party leader was greeted with bursting of crackers and distribution of sweets by party cadre in front of the Coimbatore South MLA’s office on Huzur Road in the city on Sunday evening. She is expected to sworn in as chief minister on February 9. 

 Chief minister O Panneerselvam has proposed Sasikala’s name for the leader of the party in assembly with the support of all MLAs. He has also sent his resignation to the governor. 
 
 A group of AIADMK carder distributed sweets to motorists in front of the office of Coimbatore South constituency MLA Amman Arjunan and they also busted crackers in front of the party office (Idhaya Deivam Maligai) on Huzur Road. They raised slogans praising Sasikala.
 
 Former deputy mayor S Leelavathi Unni said Chinnamma is the right person to become the chief minister of the state. She will do good things for the people of the state. “We are accepting her and the people of the state will also accept her. We want a woman to rule the state,” said Leelvathi Unni.
 
 District joint secretary of AIADMK IT wing A Gopalakrishnan said Sasikala had spent 30 years with former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and she knows how to rule the state and she will do lot of things for the state. “Panneerselvam also had done a great job as chief minister of the state. He brought the emergency act for jallikattu and he took swift action during Cyclone Vardha. He only proposed Chinnamma’s name for legislature party leader,” he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, former MP of Dharmapuri constituency M G Sekar said it was a great move in the history of Tamil Nadu politics. “The entire state is eagerly waiting for Sasikala to assume charges as the chief minister," he said. He said that the entire AIADMK cadre, functionaries are hopeful that Sasikala will take the party and the state on the way which shown by Jayalalithaa,” he added. 
 
 When contacted by TOI, former minister K P Munusamy refused to comment over this issue.
 
