NEW DELHI: The thought of living on the streets again terrified her. It was only a year ago that she and her four sisters found a roof over their heads, and now it’s gone too. All that 10-year-old Neha could do was sob. 

 Neha and over 60 other children and 40 women lost their ‘home’ when   demolished a DUSIB night   opposite Nizamuddin dargah on Thursday afternoon. Run by   and  , the shelter catered to mostly ragpickers and beggars. 
 
 A DDA official said they were following Delhi high court orders to remove squatters from Amir Khusro Park, and since the shelter didn’t have permission, it was  . 
 
 However, DUSIB officials pointed out that the shelter itself had come up on high court’s orders many years ago. Senior officials said they tried to reach the DDA brass to stop the demolition but failed. 
 
 Urban development minister Satyendar Jain has asked DUSIB to file a report and explore the legal angles for the next course of action. The government is likely to approach the court on this. 
 
 This instance once again highlights the problem of too many authorities working in silos and making things difficult. “We were hardly given any time to take our belongings or finish our afternoon meal when the demolition work started. The police forced all of us out of the shelter and even used their lathis on the children when they refused to leave,” said Najma, a domestic help. 
 
 NGO workers said most of the inhabitants had been picked up from the streets around Nizamuddin and given vocational training so that mothers could give up begging and the children could go to school. Nearly 45 child beggars were put into schools. The shelter also had coolers and a TV. 
 
 “All of us have spent years transforming the shelter into a safe space for children and involving them in vocational activities so that they do not indulge in petty crimes or go begging,” said Geetanjali Chopra, owner of Wishes and Blessings. “The demolition of a children’s shelter is completely unjustified and sickening. This act has robbed the hopes of so many who found themselves secure within its four walls,” she added. 
 
 A slum cluster adjoining the shelter was demolished three days ago by DDA. “After my home was demolished, I sent my two nieces and a nephew to live at the night shelter while I spent the night on the intersection with my husband and sons. There is already a dearth of space in shelters; if such demolition work continues, poor people like us will have no place to go,” said Amina Begum (50), a ragpicker. 
 
