THANE: In a recent incident, a   duped a   by posing as a bank employee and got away with Rs 23,000 from her account. 

 The victim, a 37-year-old   housewife, was duped by the smooth-talking fraudster who asked for her card and bank details, which she promptly gave. This was the second such case reported in the last 10 days.
 
 The modus operandi was similar to an incident at   where a 43-year-old woman was duped of her money by a telecaller who posed as a bank official.
 
 The police suspect that the crime may be committed by a gang that could be targeting houswives and duping them of their money by telling them that their card will be blocked or they will be fined for renewal. 
 
 “The caller identified himself as Ravi Kumar and claimed to be an employee of a bank where the woman had an account and ATM card. The conman claimed that her ATM card was to be renewed and sought her card details,” said a police officer from Mumbra police station. 
 
 The cop added, the telecaller had also told her that if the card was not renewed she would be charged Rs 2,000. 
 
 “The victim promptly shared her card details and even provided him with the one-time password (OTP) which flashed on her phone. Soon enough, a ghost transaction was effected and funds were withdrawn from her account. As the transaction alert message flashed on her cellphone, she called up on the same number and was informed to share the OTP again, so that the money could be transferred back into her account,” said the cop. 
 
 It is said that the victim realized that she was being cheated after which she went to the bank to know that no such call was made to her from their branch. 
 
 In both the cases, the police claimed that they would try to trace the caller from the number that the calls were made from. 
 
 The accused was booked for cheating.
 
 The modus operandi was similar to a Castle Mill incident where a 43-year-old woman was duped by a telecaller who posed as a bank official. The police suspect that the crime may be committed by a gang that could be targeting houswives to dupe them of their money
 
 
