KOLKATA: Cops have slapped   charge on a nursing home in Hooghly’s Arambagh after receiving a complaint from the relatives of a patient, who died there of cardiac arrest on Tuesday. Local doctors have decided to keep their chambers shut in protest on Friday.

 Bishnupada Roy (48) of Arambagh’s Rasulpur was admitted to the nursing home last Friday with complaints of chest pain. After he was admitted to the critical care unit, the attending doctor reportedly found his condition unstable and started the treatment. “The doctor said he needed to be injected with a life-saving drug and we agreed to that. But my uncle’s condition deteriorated immediately after that,” said Paritosh, the deceased’s nephew. According to him, Roy died within two hours.
 
 “The attending doctor was not capable of treating a patient with cardiac complications. Despite that, he continued to treat him. The nursing home authorities did not have the infrastructure to treat such critical patients, but they did not inform us,” alleged Paritosh. The family members accused the nursing home of medical negligence. Later, they staged a protest at Kable crossing in Arambagh.
 
 Based on their complaint, police lodged an FIR against the attending doctor and the   on Tuesday and slapped charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder (304), cheating (420/417) and acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention (34) of Indian Penal Code.
 
 “We have registered a case for alleged medical negligence and will transfer the case to CMOH. We will take action against the accused after getting a report from the CMOH,” said Sukesh Jain, police super of Hooghly.
 
 But the nursing home authority and the IMA has raised concern over the charges slapped. “There are judgments of   which has barred police from slapping charges under 304 IPC. Since police have slapped them with such charges, we will challenge that in the court,” said Arup Ratan Hazra, lawyer of the nursing home.
 
 “There could be a case of medical negligence but in no way charges of culpable homicide can be slapped on doctors. We have decided to protest against it as doctors are feeling uncomfortable to attend to patients now. Around 100 doctors will not attend their chambers on Friday but will be present at the   office. If required, patients can visit the doctors there and they will be investigated free of cost,” said Atanu Kundu, member of the IMA, Arambagh Chapter.
 
