The mighty   has remained an integral symbol of Hyderabad, a historical city founded by  , the fifth Sultan of the Qutb Shahi dynasty, on the southern banks of the river in 1591. The much talked about Hyderabadi culture had flourished on its banks over the centuries. Musi is also witness to some of the most significant moments in the city’s history, including the 1908 floods, which is said to have left 15,000 dead and rendered an equal number homeless. But, today Musi is well on the path of doom and degeneration, with pollution and encroachments reducing it to a filthy, stinking stream. Waking up to the reality of the river dying a slow death, thousands of Hyderabadis are expected to converge at the   on Thursday evening as part of the ‘Rally For Rivers’ campaign. But before that, historians, environmentalists and activists take stock of the current situation of Musi:

 
 
 
 The devastating flood of Musi in 1908 was a turning point in Hyderabad. The sixth Nizam,  , distributed relief among the victims and took several measures to control the natural disaster in future. The seventh Nizam,  , was also eager to combat floods in Hyderabad and strengthened the bunds of Hussain Sagar as the first step. The Nizam administration consulted legendary engineer M Visvesvaraya and constructed two lakes — Gandipet and Himayatsagar — in the 1920s to divert water from Musi, a tributary of Krishna. The once perennial river, Musi was transformed to a rain-fed river, causing its degradation. Musi water was known for its purity and even medical properties. People used to collect river-bed stones from Gandipet and put them in tanks in their homes to purify water. But with no inflow, the river was on its way for doom, and you can see that happening now.
 — KSS Seshan, former Professor of History, University of Hyderabad
 
 
 
 Musi’s pollution has reached appalling levels, and even hazardous chemicals like lead, arsenic and cadmium have been found in it. A survey revealed that children aged five or six, who reside on its banks, are experiencing premature hair greying. . The existing sewerage treatment plants are running to their optimum capacity, but are unable to treat the massive flow of effluents. The solution is to find out the pollutants at the source and segregate them. We can opt for advanced technologies like phytoremediation (a low cost, solar energy-driven cleanup technique) and bioremediation (a waste management technique that involves the use of organisms to neutralise pollutants from a contaminated site). But for all that can happen, we need a people’s movement with the participation of NGOs and local communities to force the government to revive the river! The ‘Rally For Rivers’, which actively 
 involves people in the revival process, might just be the first step.
 —  , lake conservationist
 
 
 
 Musi is a symbol of our heritage and without this river, the entire history of Hyderabad will fade into oblivion. Today, it is a victim of neglect and official apathy. The quality of the river water is so bad that it can no longer support aquatic life. We need to take urgent steps to revive it before it’s too late. Strict action must be initiated against those dumping chemical waste and sewage into it. We need to improve the efficiency of treatment plans so that the treated water is released back into the 
 river. ‘Rally For Rivers’ is a good initiative to infuse life into dying rivers and water bodies. People should put pressure on the government to conserve them, and also do their bit.
 —  , environmentalist
 
 
 
 From time immemorial, Musi has been the prime water resource for Hyderabad. But its degradation has led us to hunt for alternative 
 water resources. Now, over 5,000 illegal bore wells exist to meet our daily water needs. Musi’s catchment area has been encroached upon due to urbanisation and has dried up since no rain water reaches the river now. Water is life and rivers, the 
 cradle of every human civilisation. We need to conserve every drop. The government ought to take immediate steps before Musi dries up completely. Initiatives like ‘Rally For Rivers’ will help rejuvenate rivers. 
 —Vishala Reddy, entrepreneur and social activist
 
 
 
 With constant dumping of garbage and effluents, Musi has turned into a filthy water body. The river also faces threat from the real estate mafia on its catchment areas as the Telangana government has recently given a go- ahead for development activities by revoking the GO 111, which bars construction activity within 10-km radius of the Osmansagar and Himayatsagar lakes. ‘Rally For Rivers’ is a first-of-its-kind endeavour that aims at unifying people for water, and is a major step in protecting our precious water resources. 
 —  , eco activist
 
 
