GURUGRAM: If you were to buy a house in  , you wouldn’t be complaining about the address. Golf Course Road is a short drive away, and both Rapid Metro and Delhi Metro are easily accessible. 

 That, however, is in theory. The reality is that Gurugrammers who have moved into Sector 65 could feel they are living in an  . The   connecting Golf Course Road Extension with the area are heavily potholed and fall into complete darkness after sundown because there are no functional streetlights. The everyday drive back home, say local residents, is like a test of their mettle on a stretch that is nearly non-navigable. 
 
 So far, only one society in the sector is occupied — Emerald Hills — with around 80 families in it. According to residents who moved into their new flats in February, there are two approach roads, of which the shorter route is a dirt track and the regular one nearly completely broken.
 
 “The condition of the road is terrible, and it gets worse by the day. There are hundreds of potholes a 200-300-metre stretch. My car has suffered damages twice in the last six months, and the bumper of my neighbour’s car has had to be replaced,” said Saurik Ginoria, an MNC executive.
 
 With the arrival of monsoon, the condition of the road has got worse. When it rains, both approach roads get waterlogged. “A light shower leads to waterlogging, and with the numerous potholes, driving is scary,” said businessman Inderjit Singh Randhawa.
 
 Residents have complained to the authorities but it hasn’t made any difference on the ground. “It’s unfortunate that after houses are selling for lakhs, but the government has not bothered to provide basic amenities like roads and streetlights,” said Zaheer Abbas, a local resident. 
 
 Women said venturing out at night alone is not an option for them on roads like these. “It’s frightening at night, because there’s zero visibility. I hope the authorities will provide us a road with proper lighting soon,” said Nazia Fatima, a homemaker.
 
 Residents have also approached their developer, who has assured them of laying a few metres of road soon. Huda officials said road construction work in these sectors is under way. “We’ve recently received sanction to build roads in these sectors. Work order in this regard will be passed soon,” said a senior Huda official. 
 
 
