UDAIPUR: Notice boards   of wanted and notorious   is a common sight but a police station in   is doing something different. 

 The Jhallara police station under Salumber circle in Udaipur has taken an innovative way to spread the message of goodness by showcasing the pictures of good persons in the area. 
 
 Recently, a circular was sent by the police headquarters, asking cops to adopt innovative measures for effective policing and building better rapport with people. “We thought of propagating good works and good persons and hence came out with the idea. Every police station has a board to showcase wanted criminals or history-sheeters but no one care to appreciate the good works of CLG (community liaison group) members who help the cops to upkeep peace and order in the area so we thought to have one,”  , SHO Jhallara station told TOI. 
 
 Many times, in remote areas, CLG members are the ones to reach in case of emergencies and take control of the situation even before police arrives. 
 
 “Such people deserved to be appreciated. This has served dual purpose,” the SHO said.
 
 On one hand, the CLG members are elated by the gesture while on the other hand, complainants who come to the police station also come to know of the influential people in their neighbourhood whom they can approach for mediation in a dispute. “Before putting up any picture on the showcase, we make sure the person has no criminal record and has a good reputation,” the inspector said.
 
 The police station has also launched another initiative ‘connect-to-connect’ wherein disputes are solved through arbitration. “There are 95 villages under the station and we have identified five persons in each village as a team which coordinates with the beat officers at their respective area for amicable settlement of disputes,” Shaitan Singh said. 
 
 Recently one of the team managed to solve a 20-year-old property dispute between a Patel and Brahmin family. “Both the parties have given up animosity and to cherish the memory of their newly created friendship, a sapling has planted in a community land. Both parties have to take care of the plant until it turns into a tree,” the cop said.
 
