MUMBAI: When a 28-year-old   pharmacist, Maroof Khan (name changed), left home carrying his passport and promising never to return, he had no inkling his action would put him on the list of suspects leaving to join the banned  . The state   (ATS) swung into action and traced him to  , where they stumbled upon a love story instead. 

 “Two sisters from Hyderabad had come for a job interview in the same hospital in whose pharmacy he worked. Khan fell in love with one of them and she reciprocated his feelings. However, his family disapproved of the relationship and began looking for a bride for him. Within two months he was married,” said a source. The marriage, however, didn’t affect Khan’s ties with his girlfriend and he stayed in touch with her. Last month, Khan left, taking his passport along and telling his family they should not search for him. 
 
 “The family was shocked after he left. They approached the local police station and filed a missing person’s complaint,” said a police officer. Since all complaints of youths missing are shared with the ATS, this case also was brought to the agency’s notice. An ATS officer from Akola division said they collected information about Khan and tried locating him through his cell phone. “It was switched off and we were worried. We treat all such cases as important and worked hard to find out Khan’s location. On the third day, we found the phone was switched on for sometime and found its location was Hyderabad. We zeroed in on the exact location and a team was dispatched. We found Khan staying with a family. When quizzed, he said he was staying with his 18-year-old girlfriend’s family and was planning to marry her,” said the officer. Later, police put him through counselling. “We tried to make him and the girl’s family understand that it would ruin three lives. Khan seemed frustrated with the circumstances. Finally, he agreed to return home. Later, we found Khan had no intention to leave the country. A week later, we followed it up and found Khan living with his wife and parents peacefully,” added the officer.
 
 Atulchandra Kulkarni, state ATS chief told TOI, “The ATS does not focus only on registering cases. We also take efforts to search, examine and counsel innocent youths and their families. After reuniting such missing youths with their families we feel happy when we see the youths’ parents are satisfied.” He also appreciated the help provided to the ATS team by the Telengana police during the operation.
 
