We were all looking forward to these elections with the hope that the rapid degradation of human life and nature suffered by Goa will be stopped, and an era of freedom, peace, abundance and respect for all will be ushered in.

 Many like us have observed the campaign by political parties and individuals with growing disappointment and dismay. We wish to remind all regarding the real issues of the people, which seem forgotten, or ignored, in the midst of the ongoing self-worship, false propaganda and empty promises.
 
 Speculation with our lands and resources is the mainstay of the corrupt profit-making that is destroying Goa and displacing Goans. Real estate is a malignant cancer which needs to be treated immediately, as is demanded by our villages through gram sabha meetings and countless struggles. Communities are unanimous that only single home dwellings be allowed for the next five or 10 years, but this demand by Goa and her people is ignored by politicians. RP 2021 hangs over Goa like a sword in the hands of greedy politicians, while every Goan heart resonates, “Xet asa tem xet, bhat asa tem bhat, raan asa tem raan”.
 
 Five-star and mass-tourism blatantly displace and exclude coastal communities — a colossal betrayal by politicians. Our coasts and seas were always conserved by local communities, but a systematic misuse of CRZ and other laws and policies has displaced the traditional defenders of the coast, leaving Goa exposed to mortal threats from ‘investors’ and the angry seas. New and old threats to our coasts and rivers from expanding ports, dredging, jetties for coal and iron ore handling, marinas, casinos, 5-star hotels, etc are backed by political parties that owe allegiance to one lobby or the other, if not all.
 
 The   are the most advanced and developed, just like other similar communities across the world, but successive governments have made every attempt to destroy the evolved culture, freedom, values and connection with the land of tribals and other suppressed communities of Goa. Illegal mining has already laid to waste large stretches of the tiny tribal lands of Goa, while eco-tourism and industries promoted by politicians threaten to destroy the rest. We must give back governing powers and economic independence to the indigenous communities, but parties are intent on dispossessing the tribals of their ‘Jal, Jangal and Jameen’, in exchange for crumbs and slavery in the form of ‘schemes’ and government jobs.
 
 Our commons, such as rivers, coasts, plateaus, khazans, agricultural lands and forests, are under assault by industries, institutions, construction and infrastructure for corporations, Mopa airport, etc. Commons is the highest form of land tenure and the basis of sustainable economies, while privatization is responsible for inequalities, exploitation and eventual socio-economic collapse. The restoration of the commons of Goa to local communities is the first step towards development, but political parties remain blinded by easy money.
 
 Our villages are our identity and the source of the culture and values we are so proud of. Already mutilated by mega-projects, industries, real estate and tourism, the death blow for our villages are the national highways. Design principles require NHs to be aligned away from residential areas, but in Goa they are deliberately aligned to destroy our settlements, lakes, rivers, rich paddy fields, etc.
 
 All political parties need to consider the survival of future generations and their water, food and environmental security as our primary duties. This election was a golden chance to use our constitutional powers to elect persons who will reverse the suicidal path chartered by present politicians and parties. Goa has the potential to lead the world away from destruction towards sustainable development, but all of us must first renounce our fears, greed and hatred to embrace, what could be, our last opportunity to save Goa.
 
 The writer is an environmental activist and general secretary of  
 
