ETAWAH: In Yadavland, the 2017 election is not just about winning a seat. For  , it’s also about retaining it and with a record margin.

 A four-time MLA from Jaswantnagar seat in Etawah—a pocket borough of the Samajwadi Party’s first family—Shivpal is campaigning hard to achieve the record he missed by around 7,000 votes in 2012, second to independent MLA from Kunda,  , who bagged the highest victory margin—a win by 88,255 votes.
 
 Having already addressed at least 285 rallies and public meetings since he started campaigning 19 days ago, Shivpal was confident of crossing the 300 mark before electioneering ended on Friday evening for the third phase of the polls for 68 Assembly seats, including those in the Yadav territory. Each of his public meetings ended with a call for a record-setting victory.
 
 To maintain an average of 15 public meetings a day, the former SP state president began early. Out of bed at 5am, his day starts with a walk on the sprawling lawns of his palatial house in Chugurji (Etawah), followed by a 30-minute yoga session. By 7:30am, he is at the breakfast table and joined by his wife Sarla, son Aditya and daughter-in-law Rajlaxmi. Shivpal’s daugter Anubha, with her infant son Aviraj walks in to join the family. “These days it’s the only time I get to spend with my family,” he tells TOI as he prepares to embark on the day’s campaign. A bowl of daliya (porridge) and a glass of milk later, he is ready to go canvassing.
 
 A day before the last day of campaigning, Shivpal settles in his white Audi and directs Aditya to call a meeting of booth committee workers in the evening, while his office staff rushes in to hand him the schedule of public meetings. Led by a police escort Gypsy, Shivpal’s cars rolls out. The first stop is Barra hamlet, half an hour from home.
 
 As Shivpal gets out of his car, a crowd of locals receive him with garlands and slogans. Cries of “Chacha Shivpal zindabad” fill the air. After addressing the locals from a makeshift stage, Shivpal is offered fruits as he walks to the doorsteps of some elderly people who were unable to attend his public meeting. By the time the meeting is over, more SUVs line up behind Shivpal’s motorcade and more supporters join the train.
 
 The sequence is repeated at the next three public meetings. By the time Shivpal reaches Nagla Sewa, an at least kilometre-long stream of two-heelers, cars and SUVs are following the procession. In between, Shivpal makes brief halts at the houses of his childhood friends.
 
 At Nagla Sewa hamlet, Shivpal’s makes an instant connect with the locals when he tells the village elders to make sure the girls in their families are educated. “It is your duty to ensure they don’t miss their classes,” he says as a group of schoolgirls, some of them still in uniform, applaud. In most of his public meetings Shivpal, who was seen as the second-most powerful minister in the state cabinet, next to the chief minister, till he was sacked from the government after the recent feud in the Yadav clan, highlights the initiatives he had taken and the welfare schemes launched by the SP government.
 
 Recollecting the struggle of the SP leaders to establish the party in the early 1990s, Shivpal talked about the “Ek Note – Ek Vote” slogan floated by the party chief. “That was the only way to collect funds for the party and seek votes at the same time,” Shivpal said. Later, when he visited a local resident seeking her support, she handed him Rs 2,100 as a donation and a written promise that she would support the SP. Another local offered Rs 101, which Shivpal accepted with folded hands.
 
 Breaking away from the scheduled campaign, Shivpal stops at Shiva temple at Udimpur village where he is greeted with slogans like “Jaswantnagar ka Laxman”, apparently to highlight his loyalty to his elder brother, SP patriarch Mulayam Singh, who remains the most respected member of the Yadav clan. When he descends the temple staircase, he is escorted to a nearby venue where “Katha Paath” is underway. Here Shivpal cautiously talks about how religion and politics complement each other and how this link can be misused. The locals told TOI that Shivpal had gone out of his way to help them with the renovation of the temple.
 
 By late evening, the day’s schedule enters its final stage. Before this, Shivpal stopped at his election office at SS Memorial Mahavidyalaya in Sutiyani area of Jaswantnagar.
 
