MANGALURU: The department of youth empowerment and sports is giving final touches to the sports policy draft of Karnataka. It has roped in   for their comments and suggestions so that the same could be incorporated in the final policy that will be placed before the cabinet for approval and subsequently announced by chief minister Siddaramaiah in the forthcoming state budget, noted  , minister for youth empowerment and sports.

 Pramod told reporters on Tuesday that the department is in constant touch with Arjuna awardees and seeks their inputs on various issues including this all important policy. Final round of consultation is also due with departments of education as their cooperation is needed in finalizing some aspects of the policy that entails granting of grace marks, attendance, grant of quota for those excelling in sports in various educational courses and so on, the minister noted.
 
 Noting that CM Siddaramaiah has reiterated his commitment to the sports policy, Pramod, said when presented as part of the budget, it gets the stamp of approval of both the houses of legislature and brightens the chance for its early and effective implementation. The department had hitherto completed divisional level stakeholders’ meet of sportspersons to obtain their inputs for the policy and these meets were held at Belagavi, Bengaluru, Kalaburgi, Udupi and Mysuru.
 
 The department in another major initiative has decided to make it mandatory for sportspersons to certify the quality of sports material that is being purchased. “We recently sought the opinion of Kabaddi player Mamatha Poojary on the quality of Kabaddi mats that the department purchased. Likewise, the inputs of a body builder too were taken while purchasing gym equipments,” he said, adding that this will henceforth become a standard operating procedure.
 
 Earlier, releasing the sports policy of Mangalore University at the inauguration of the south zone inter-university kho-kho championship for men 2016-17, Pramod, said it is heartening that the university has overtaken the state government in releasing such a policy. Wishing that this sports policy becomes a model for other universities in the country to emulate, Pramod directed the university to ensure that the policy is implemented effectively and does not remain on paper.
 
 Assuring that he will strive to do his best to improve and support sports, Pramod said, “I have urged the CM to double the grants for the department in the budget. Our annual outlay in 2016-17 was Rs 145 crore,” he said, adding that if people are encouraged to take up sports in a big way, it will keep them healthy and fit and thereby reduce the burden on health department that has to utilize Rs 5,000 crore to ensure that people with illnesses are treated and kept fit.
 
 K Byrappa, vice-chancellor of Mangalore University, in his presidential remarks, said the varsity will ensure that the talented sportspersons are provided the best training. “We will bear the travel expenses of sportspersons selected to participate in state and national meets,” he said, adding university is in the process of augmenting sports infrastructure in a big way. S Prakash, Arjuna awardee in kho-kho, was felicitated. 
 
 
