NAGPUR:   lived up to her top billing to emerge champion in the   Grand Prix Gold   tournament at Sibu Indoor Stadium, Sarawak, Malaysia, on Sunday.

 In a hard-fought summit clash, Saina has to stretch herself fully to halt the giant-killing run of   of Thailand to grab the much-needed title. Although, Saina won in straight games at 22-20, 22-20, she was pushed to the limit by the unseeded Thai girl.
 
 On her 19th birthday, Chochuwong was all fired up to present herself a perfect title gift. But the world No. 10 Saina spoiled the occasion after an intense battle which lasted 46 minutes.
 
 Both the games went through the same pattern with similar scores. Saina was down by a game point in the first game but recovered brilliantly to clinch the game on her first game point. In the second game too, both were not willing to give an inch to each other. In her desperate attempt to level the game scores, Chochuwong even saved four match points and threatened to take the match to the decider. However, using her vast experience to good effect, Saina converted her fifth match point.
 
 It was the first meeting between the two players and it turned out to be a memorable one. Saina needed to end the title drought to boost her confidence after having been laid low by injury for several months last year. The entire tournament went according to a plan for the 26-year-old Indian as she capitalised on the absence of the big guns.
 
 Not losing a single game in the tournament also showed that Saina was peaking towards her best. The debacle in the Rio Olympics and knee surgery later in Mumbai had prompted her critics to write her off.
 
 Win a confidence booster, says coach Vimal
 
 Saina's coach,   said that her Malaysia Masters victory was a timely confidence boost on her road to peak match fitness. “It's a good win for her confidence. Her next big test will be in March so she will have some time to prepare well,” Vimal told TOI in Bengaluru. “I still feel she gets out of breath after long rallies so improving her strength and endurance will be a priority. She will also have to lose weight. However, these issues are natural after a surgery,” said the former international. 
 
 Saina will be competing in the All England Open Superseries Premier in March.
 
 Vimal suggested that excelling in the Malaysian event was tougher than perceived. “The level is definitely lower but all her opponents -the rising stars of the sport -are quite tricky. They have nothing to lose and come out all guns blazing. Playing under pressure is the most important thing and she has been able to weather that. It's not easy and I'm quite pleased,” he said, adding that the pressure of performance and his own expectations had drained his ward.
 
 The noted coach said the top-seeded Saina had a few issues in the event in Sibu but did well to overcome them. “I spoke to her a few days ago. She said there was a bit of drift in the hall and she was not timing her shots well. I told her these are factors she would have to adjust to. When you are playing against rivals you are expected to beat, these factors can play on your mind. She is definitely on course to getting back to her best,” he said.
 
