NEW DELHI:   ( ) is accelerating towards being more tech-friendly with the budget for 2017-18 laying emphasis on moving towards a   platform.

 From locating garbage bins on their mobile app — NDMC 311 — to developing smart classrooms at municipal schools, proposed projects include digital interactive panels, smart parking, smart dustbins, smart roads and smart healthcare services.
 
 NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar on Friday pegged the expected income at Rs 3,621.62 crore and expenditure estimates at Rs 3,627.08 crore. The civic body has a surplus of Rs 100 crore as per the revised budget estimates for 2016-17.
 
 “The focus of the budget is ensuring good governance through technology and on increasing the scale and speed of execution of projects. We have already taken a step towards a cashless economy and we aim to bring all our services on the digital platform,” Kumar said.
 
 Taking a cue from European countries, NDMC plans to constitute a technology board comprising scholars from prime institutes and experts from leading companies like  , Cisco, etc, which will act as an advisory body for the council.
 
 “Many European countries have a separate body that acts as an advisory committee for the municipality and helps them provide better facilities to the public using technology. We will bring on board experts from leading IT companies and scholars from prime institutes to help us with the projects and their implementation,” said Kumar.
 
 For the first time, the civic body has created two separate heads in the budget — Sustainable Development and Technology — and an amount of Rs 7.5 crore has been allocated to each. “The idea is that all experimental projects undertaken under these two heads should have their own funds. If we can utilise Rs 15 crore for both the heads this year, then the allocation will be increased next year,” the chairman said.
 
 The council will also be developing 30 cycle stations to encourage non-motorised transportation and will deploy battery-operated vehicles for last-mile connectivity.
 
 Kumar added that last year NDMC had formed a company to handle smart city projects and allocated Rs 250 crore to it. The council will float municipal bonds to raise funds for their projects. “The Centre has given us Rs 194 crore and we have added Rs 56 crore to the funds,” he said.
 
 NDMC has already installed 1,000 dustbins in its areas and another 1,800 will be added in the coming months. They will also be mapped on the NDMC app. “Apart from being able to locate dustbins, public toilets, monuments, important buildings and other landmarks, people will soon be able to book parking slots through the app,” said Kumar.
 
 For cultural and recreational purposes, NDMC has proposed heritage walks and night tours under the public-private partnership mode.
 
 
