SECUNDERABAD: The 'Save Parade Ground' campaign entered the second day on Saturday. At around 6.30 pm, nearly 250 walkers and sports persons gathered at the Parade Ground and formed a human chain to express their anguish over the state government's decision to acquire the lung space for construction of a new Secretariat. Even the children who came to the Parade Ground for practising cricket joined the human chain. 

 Everyday, nearly 3,000 walkers from nearby localities like Begumpet, Secunderabad Cantonment, Habsiguda, Tarnaka and other areas come to the Parade Ground between 5 am and 8 am. The sprawling ground is chok-a-block during weekends with walkers and school and college students who practise cricket there.
 
 "We have three-decade-old attachment with the Parade Ground and my entire family comes here for a morning walk. We fought with the Army when restrictions were imposed in 2014 on walkers at the ground and we won when the authorities relented and allowed us to utilise the place for morning exercises," K  , a resident of R P Road, Secunderabad, told TOI. 
 
 Another resident, P  , a businessman from Patny, said they would not allow the state government to construct a new Secretariat at the ground. Any such move would undermine the glory of  , a martyrs memorial located at the Parade Ground, he said. "We have to salute the memorial built in honour of hundreds of soldiers who laid down their lives for the country. There is enough land at many places in the city for a new Secretariat. The state government should rethink its plans," he said. "The 'Save Parade Ground' campaign will continue till the state government withdraws the proposal. A signature campaign also has been organised to protect the Parade Ground," said Krishanka, official spokesperson,  . 
 
 The Telangana government is seeking either Bison Polo Ground or   for its new Secretariat. But in a surprising development, Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna thanked the Centre for responding positively to state's request and allotting the Parade Ground. When asked for his reaction to the ongoing protests against state's move to build Secretariat on the Parade Ground land, Sayanna said, "I thought the government sought 60 acres including Bison Polo Ground, Gykhana Ground and Parade Ground. Anyhow, I will verify the fact with the officials," said the MLA. 
 
