CHANDIGARH: A class X student from Chandigarh has made the city proud by winning the best cadet award and receiving a medal from the Prime Minister Of India in Delhi during   parade. Sergeant Mihir, studying at St Kabir Public School, Chandigarh, was one of the few cadets from the Tricity to be selected for this year’s Republic Day parade.

 While being a part of Republic Day parade was a dream come true, emerging as the   was icing on the cake for Mihir. “It was unbelievable that out of so many cadets, I was chosen as the best cadet. I feel more confident now,” he stated.
 
 He was selected after being tested in firing with a 0.22 sporting rifle in lying, kneeling and standing positions, written test which included specialized subjects of the Army, subjects common to all the three wings – Army, Air Force, Navy – current affairs and general knowledge. There was also a drill, group discussion and interview with the Additional Director General (A) of   (NCC), Air Vice Marshal H J walia and participation in other events.
 
 He had competed with 34 other cadets of 17 directorates from all over India for that baton and silver medal. “My dream of leaving a mark on this organization has finally been fulfilled,” he said.
 
 Dedicating his success to all his mentors, he said “I am thankful to everyone who motivated me in this journey from my parents to my school and to the mentors at the camp.” He also remarked, “Republic Day camp is really a unique and once in a lifetime experience which really changes you. It teaches you to give up and makes you strong. You get to meet people from different cultural backgrounds and make friends for lifetime. The exposure one gets is tremendous.”
 
 “He has brought laurels to not only our school but also to the region for being awarded as the best NCC cadet in the junior division. The telecast of Mihir being awarded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was made available in the school for other students on Monday,” states St Kabir school administrator Gurpreet Bakshi.
 
