PATNA: The   ( ) examinations of   started on a peaceful note on Thursday with most of the examinees describing the papers “relatively easy”. Class XII students appeared for their English paper while Class X pupils sat for   on Day 1.

 CBSE sources said 52,579 boys and girls appeared for the Class XII paper though a very few Class X students wrote the the vocational papers at the 248 examination centres in the Bihar- Jharkhand region.
 
 “There were no reports of use of unfair means at our school, which was the examination centre for students of ten city schools,” said Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha.
 
 According to Surya Kant Mishra, who teaches English at Loyola High School, the Class XII paper was quiet easy and even average students are expected to score well. “Unlike last year, the paper was not lengthy this time. There were no tricky questions,” he said.
 
 Notre Dame Academy’s student Mansi Kumari nodded. “The paper was so easy that I finished half an hour before the schedule, and used the time to revise my answers,” said Mansi who is among the 240 Damians writing the CBSE’s Class XII examination this year.
 
 Anxious parents were seen waiting outside the examination centres as the examination began at 10.30am and ended at 1.30pm. Soumya Sahay, whose daughter is a student of DAV Public School-BSEB Colony, waited outside St Michael’s High School where her daughter has her examination centre. “I was relieved as I saw happiness writ large on my daughter’s face when she came out of the examination centre,” the mom said.
 
 “The question paper was more or less on expected lines. I attempted answeres to all the questions,” said Amir Rizwan, Class XII student of St Michael’s High School, who is writing the examination at May Flower School.
 
 The Class X and Class XII students have their Hindi and vocational papers respectively on March 10.
 
 Bihar-J’khand: NUMBERS AT A GLANCE
 
 Exam centres: 248 (150 in Bihar, 98 in Jharkhand)
 
 CBSE-affiliated schools: 1,054
 
 Class X students: 1,73,601
 
 Class X students writing school-based exam: 58,550, including 19,409 girls
 
 Class X students writing CBSE’s Board-based exam: 1,15,051, including 39,104 girls
 
 Class XII students: 52,579, including 28,320 girls
 
