CHENNAI: Students gearing up to tackle the   (JEE) this year are under more pressure than usual, with the admissions being based solely on their performance in the entrance exam with no weightage given for class 12 exam marks. In addition to that, the   is also being held right in the middle of their boards, compelling students to juggle both at the same time.

 JEE is the gateway into the IITs, NITs and other Centrally Funded Technical Institutions. The JEE (Main) is being held on April 2 (offline mode) and April 8&9 (online mode), following which qualifying candidates will appear for the JEE (Advanced). 
 
 The more variety of problems students are exposed to before the actual exam, the better, say experts as there is more of a likelihood to crack a similar problem that may appear in the exam. 
 
 Jean John Thomas of  , Chennai region, says that this is the time where students need to focus on error analysis and identify their grey areas so that they can work on improving their performance.
 
 By March 25 or 26, most of the science subjects are done and this is the time where when JEE aspirants need to focus a lot of mock papers. “The issue is that many get stuck with one problem while attempting the paper. This usually tends to happen with Maths, where many tend to get stuck, as compared to Physics or Chemistry questions. Students need to quickly identify which are the questions that seem tough to them and move on to others. They can always come back to some tough ones later, because they will consume more time,” said Jean John.
 
 He also pointed out that unlike many of the states in the North, Tamil Nadu has students taking up both Maths and Biology in one science group in Class 12. CBSE students writing the JEE have already expressed concerns about their biology exam (April 5) being placed very close to the JEE Main exam (April 2 and April 8-9). Many said they have been training for both exams which have different formats. 
 
 Experts suggest splitting of the revision for both JEE and boards when there are long gaps in between the  . Coaching centres say that it is imperative to strictly adhere to your timetable and allot time slots to revise each and every subject. They also point out that this is the time for more practice and strengthen concepts only and not to learn new techniques or incorporate shortcuts in this short span of time which can lead to confusion.
 
