MUMBAI: For the first time in this decade, the number of   has shown a decline in the city in 2016-17. Data collected by the civic body also shows a remarkable decrease in medical termination of pregnancies among teenagers.

 The data, released in response to an   query, revealed that 33,526 abortions were carried out at the city’s 550 registered centres in 2016-17—a 4% decline from 34,790 cases in 2015-16. In almost all previous years, MTPs have shown an upward trend, registering an average annual increase of 10-13%. 
 
 The steepest decline in 2016-17 was in the below-15 age bracket, where only eight abortions were reported, compared to the average of 200 in previous years. Civic authorities are certain the trend is positive and only hints towards increased awareness and better reporting, although sceptical activists and doctors won’t yet call it a “healthy sign”.
 
 The data accessed by RTI activist Chetan Kothari showed a 34% decline in MTPs in the 15-19 age group. A senior gynaecologist from KEM Hospital said teenage pregnancies are a cause for worry worldwide. “To record such a decline without aggressive public health or social intervention seems a bit questionable,” the doctor said.
 
 A spokesperson of   (IDF), which works towards safe abortions, expressed concern, saying a decline in abortion among   requires further analysis, especially when the overall number of abortions has more or less remained the same. “While total abortions declined by 3.6%, abortions among youths declined significantly by 52%. This change within a year seems surprising,” said the expert, adding that it requires research to understand why young women may not be seeking or getting abortion services at these facilities. “We also need to find out if young women are turning to informal providers for terminating pregnancy,” the IDF expert added.
 
 BMC’s executive health officer Dr Padmaja Keskar said the data was collected scientifically through a software introduced last year. “The manual system has been upgraded to minimize errors. There is a fall in teenage abortions as per the statistics,” she said. Dr Keskar pointed out that the number of lives lost due to MTPs was 50% less than 2015-16, when eight women had died. 
 
 In an analysis of reasons why women needed MTPs, failure of contraceptive device topped the chart, with nearly 29,700 out of 33,526 citing it. The other reasons shown were physical and mental danger to mother’s life or that the child may suffer from abnormalities. In 47 cases, rape was shown as the reason for pregnancy.
 
 The data also pointed towards a gradual decline in second trimester abortions. Professor of gynaecology at   Dr Arun Naik said abortions beyond 12 weeks pose additional danger to a woman and can give rise to complications. “Due to a tremendous increase in awareness, we see a very small fraction of second trimester abortions. Girls and women are prompt in seeking care,” said the doctor. Out of the 33,526 abortions, only 1,375 were carried out in the second semester of 2016-17.
 
 
