Chennai: When Henrik Sekhar turned one, and his mother tried to wean him off breast milk both had a traumatic experience. Attempts to give the toddler pasteurised milk resulted in repeated bouts of vomiting, rashes and tears. It was then that he was diagnosed with lactose intolerance.

 Henrik is not alone in his allergy; there are millions of children and adults like him fuelling the sale of alternative products like formula milk, Amul and Nestle’s lactose free milk, Kissan, Nesvita and Sofit’s soya milk, etc. While studies say that lactose intolerance is found in over 75% of Indians, the awareness has traditionally been low.
 
 However, with rising awareness attributed to gene testing etc, companies that have recently introduced lactose free products are seeing over 30% growth month-on-month. R S Sodhi, managing director, Amul, said that lactose-free milk, which was introduced by the company in 2015, has been growing by 25-30% month-on-month. “Those who have discovered the availalbility of such products online or otherwise have been approaching our outlets and the sales are brisk. Repeat demand comes from the same shop once the product is discovered, despite the market being small,” he added.
 
 Considering the incidence of the medical condition among children, companies such as Danone, have been adding products like Nusobee that caters to kids. For adults, soy milk and lactose-free milk are the best options. “India has always been a milk consuming nation and   products have been a part of their diet. So, even while lactose intolerance has been prevalent, no one knew that they had the condition,” said Abdur Rub, co-founder, Xcode Life Sciences that offers testing for lactose intolerance among adults. Rub added that over 75% of those who took up the test have been diagnosed intolerant and post the detection, have been consuming lactose-free milk or taking to dark chocolate or opting for options without lactose.
 
 Online aggregators like Big Basket say that they are seeing substantial sales from the lactose intolerant market. “We see a good number of people opt for tofu over paneer and purchasing lactose free milk. We primarily sell carton milk and not packet milk, so our customer base is slightly different from that of a typical supermarket,” said Meera Iyer, brand manager, Big Basket.
 
 Dark chocolates are another segment seeing good uptick from the lactose intolerant market. “About 30-35% of Indian consumers prefer dark chocolate, 5% root for white chocolate and the rest for milk chocolate. Now in this 30-35% segment some are chocolate connoisseurs, wanting the purest form of chocolate, while others are lactose intolerant individuals. Dark chocolates are ideally suited for the lactose intolerant,” said Dhiren Kumar, country head, chocolate ingredient supplier Puratos.
 
  
  
