JAMSHEDPUR: Following the state government’s announcement to lease   mine in   of   by June, the district administration has swung into action to curb emerald   in the area which has strong presence of  .

 The district police has announced to increase patrolling in the forested area and conduct raids with the help of personnel from mining, zoology and forest department to prevent illegal excavation and transportation of the precious stone. 
 
 “Along with increased police surveillance in the hilly forest terrain we also aim to fill up excavated mines with soil. We have sought earthmover machines for the land filling work,” said SP (rural) Shailendra Barnwal. 
 
 Barnwal added that unless a permanent police outpost is set up, the personnel will face challenge to survey the emerald mine, located atop the hilly Kurian village, round-the-clock.
 
 “But, police along with   have been maintaining regular surveillance. Frequent raids are being conducted and this exercise will be further increased,” the SP said.
 
 According to the sources in the district mining and geology department, the villagers in multiple groups are allegedly involved in large-scale excavation of emerald stones. 
 
 “The entire exercise of curbing illegal mining of emerald is being done by the geology department and the mining department is not directly associated with it,” said district mining officer Venkatesh Prasad Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the villagers of Kurian village said that the Maoists enjoy a strong support of the people involved in illegal mining of the precious stone. 
 
 “The Maoists used to collect Rs 20 lakh every month from illegal mining of emerald and quartz stones till a few months ago,” said a villager, requesting anonymity. 
 
 He, however, added that the region has seen a decline in the presence of Maoists due to heightened security operation and surrenders by the rebels.
 
 State mines and geology, secretary, Sunil Kumar Barnwal said here on Sunday the government will issue prospecting and lease license of the emerald mine to interested bidders by June. 
 
 
