NAGPUR: Coming to 87-year-old teacher’s rescue, the   of   granted him  , after a prolonged   that lasted for over 36 years.

 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and justice Swapna Joshi directed the Zilla Parishad education officer (EO Secondary) and deputy director of education, both in Nagpur, to process his pension case and other papers within three months and clear his long pending dues.
 
 Borgaon resident Daulat Pund was working as an assistant teacher at Gardener High School in Civil Lines, here, since 1978, before he was transferred from Nagpur to Bhandara. He challenged it before the Industrial Court, under the ‘Maharashtra Recognition of Trade Union and Prevention of Unfair Labour Practice Act, 1971’, on September 11, 1981. He contended that he couldn’t be treated as workman or employee while questioning his transfer.
 
 During pendency, the petitioner and respondents — Gardener High School and Maharashtra Board of Regional Education of Church of North India, arrived at a settlement. Accordingly, he was told to resign and the respondents would grant all the promised benefits relating to pension, gratuity, provident fund, and salary among others.
 
 However, the respondents failed to fulfil their commitments forcing him to knock the higher judiciary’s doors in 1993. He argued that he should be treated as retired voluntarily from service and it was not a case of resignation. His case was however rejected on January 19, 2009. Subsequently, it was treated as resignation and therefore, the octogenarian was found not entitled for receiving pension.
 
 The petitioner challenged this verdict in the Supreme Court on October 18, 2010, which directed respondents to pay him as per 1981 settlement.
 
 Later, the EO sent a communication on January 16, 2014, to deputy director, pointing out that the petitioner rendered services of over 19 years, 11 months and 18 days, but was falling short of only 12 days to complete qualifying service of 20 years. He requested the director to treat it as a special case and to condone that shortfall so that the pension could be granted. However, after director’s refusal, the EO sent a letter on December 17, 2015, to Pund that no pension could be granted, as he forfeited his earlier service by resigning.
 
 The senior citizen again approached the higher judiciary through counsel Amit Prasad praying for quashing December 17, 2015, and granting pension.
 
 “We find that the controversy is concluded by the SC orders and parties have to abide by it. We therefore, quash and set aside the communication of December 17, 2015, and direct that the shortfall of 12 days in service of petitioner is condoned as a special case. His resignation will also have to be ignored, as his eligibility and entitlement to pension were expressly preserved at that time,” the judges said while partly allowing the plea.
 
 With inputs from Sakina Dawood.
 
