KOLKATA: Google on Tuesday displayed a painting by   on its homepage to celebrate the legendary painter’s 130th birthday. Roy was born on April 11, 1887, according to the English calendar but his descendants celebrate his birth anniversary on  . The family, however, didn’t mind the early celebrations online.

 “I’m really happy with Google’s tribute using a painting of a horse done by Dadu. I’ve seen at least 10-12 different horses done by him,” said  , the 76-year-old grandson of the artist who has directed a documentary titled ‘The Art of Jamini Roy’.
 
 However, Roy was certain that the painter would have reacted very differently to Google’s homage. “I can visualise him getting very angry with such adulation. He would have turned violent. He just didn’t like any gadgets. Before his death, I had tried to get his consent for shooting a film on him. But, there was complete non-cooperation from his side,” he recounted.
 
 Contrary to artists who are in search of immortality through art, the painter didn’t believe in the permanence of art. “He didn’t even leave behind a will and was least bothered about how posterity would remember him. All he would say is: ‘I don’t agree. That’s why I paint’,” Roy said.
 
 Though both the central and state governments have acquired most of the master’s works from the family, Roy’s collection still has some of his rudimentary sketches. However, he isn’t expecting government support to preserve the master’s works. “That’s not the government’s job. If a private organisation is ready to come up with a permanent space where Dadu’s works can be on display, I will love to give them there,” he said.
 
 Describing his grandfather as a ‘no-nonsense gentleman’, Roy spoke about how the   winner was “afraid” that his grandson, too, would take to painting. “We can’t even imagine his financial struggles. He had to struggle hard to earn one paisa that was needed to buy puffed rice to feed his children. He didn’t have money to buy good quality paints. That’s why restorers of his early works have such a tough time now. He even used my grandmother’s sari as a canvas,” Roy added.
 
 Yet, the artist didn’t increase the price of his works because he believed in reaching out to the masses. “I don’t agree with the government’s policy that declares his works as ‘national treasures’. Artists have no nationalities. Can Van Gogh or Picasso be limited as a national treasure of one country? Sadly, it’s impossible to export or take Dadu’s works outside India. I think, this policy deprives owners of his works from taking them along if they want to shift out of India. However, I do hear that many of his works are now going under the hammer at international art auctions.”
 
 
