VISAKHAPATNAM: A court sentenced Vaddi Mahesh, the main accused in the Rs 570 crore money laundering or hawala case, to 14-day judicial remand on Monday. 

 Mahesh, who is said to have been arrested on Sunday by the city police, was produced before the media on Monday. City cops said they had arrested only Mahesh, while the others including Mahesh’s father were called for interrogation. City police commissioner T   told media persons here on Monday that according to income tax department officials, over Rs 800 crore was funnelled out of the country from a single account in a public sector bank in Kolkata in 2016 before the demonetisation drive. After the demonetisation, small amounts were transacted from 30 accounts in various banks under the name of 12 shell companies. The case was handed over to the AP CID as the city cops do not have the required machinery to investigate the case. 
 
 “In view of various events that will be held in the next three months and also the lack of an economic offences wing in the city, we have handed over the case to the AP CID,” the CP said. 
 
 The case also involves coordinating with other national and international investigating agencies including the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. The case was unearthed by I-T department led by income tax joint director (investigations) MVN Seshu Bhavanarayana. 
 
 Yoganand said after interrogating Mahesh for a day, it came to light that a few businessmen from north India were also involved in the scam. During interrogation, Mahesh reportedly claimed that the companies were under invoicing prices of imported rice cookers, alcohol and cigarettes to evade customs duty, Yoganand said. 
 
 The FIR filed by the I-T department stated that Mahesh and others had opened 12 shell companies and were operating 30 dubious accounts that remitted about Rs 1,300 crore since 2013 to five foreign companies in China, Singapore and Hong Kong to purchase customised software with the help of forged documents. As per the IT department’s preliminary investigation, Mahesh has opened many proprietary concerns or partnership firms in the names of his employees to facilitate transfer of funds and reported turnovers. The analysis of the bank accounts pertaining to the accused indicates total inward domestic remittance of Rs 680.94 crore. Of this, Rs 569.93 crore was remitted to five foreign companies for the purchase of customised software. But no software was ever purchased from these companies.
 
