GURUGRAM : Around a dozen structures, coming in the way of alignment of the Sector 76-77 master road, were demolished on Saturday to pave the way for construction of the proposed   to connect   (SPR) with NH-8, bypassing  . 

 During the seven-hour drive, Huda razed to the ground seven villas, a temple, a samadhi and the office of a BJP functionary. “The villas were empty when we reached the spot and the structures were razed without any resistance,” said Huda sub-divisional engineer (SDE) HS Jakhad. A large number of police personnel were present during the  , which was completed peacefully, he added.
 
 On Sunday, Huda is likely to carry out another demolition drive to remove structures blocking the alignment of master roads in sectors 75-80. 
 
 “The land for master roads in sectors 75-80 will be cleared to start the construction work at the earliest,” said Huda estate officer-II Vivek Kalia. The development authority has ready completed the land acquisition process in the area for the project.
 
 Huda officials said once demolition drives are complete, private developers would start construction of roads in sectors 76, 77, 78, 79 and 79A. These apart, work will also start on master roads in sectors 69-70 and 70-70A; and extension of master roads in sectors 37C-9B. Costs of construction would be adjusted against external development charges (EDCs) that the developers owe to Huda. 
 
 Currently, SPR connects with the NH-8 around one kilometre ahead of Kherki Daula. 
 
 As per the new proposal, which seeks to decongest the highway, the alternative route will start from the sector 75-75A master road and will connect NH-8 near Sector 83 through sector 77-78 and sector 76-77 roads. 
 
 With the completion of this project, people coming from Golf Course Road through SPR can directly go to Manesar, without having to cross   toll plaza. Also, people coming from Faridabad side can go directly to Manesar without using Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.
 
 “The alternative route will ease traffic on NH-8 and benefit residents living in new Gurgaon areas,” said Anupam Varshney, head of sales and marketing, Vatika Ltd.
 
