JAIPUR: The Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has learned that the faculty of the   (FYLC) has procured books worth Rs 50 lakh for the college library without setting up the required purchase committee (PC) during the 2008-2013 period. Many of these books are reportedly missing from the library stock.

 The sleuths of ACB said that they would file a second FIR against faculty members and other officials of the college for flouting norms for personal benefits.
 
 “These books were solely purchased by the then director without bothering to check the utility of these books. Since new facts have emerged, a second FIR would help us to build a stronger case,” an ACB official told TOI.
 
 On Thursday, ACB sent shockwaves across the university after it filed an FIR in a case of alleged misappropriation of funds of nearly Rs 1.42 crore against the faculty of the FYLC during the 2008-2013 period, including three directors, one joint director, cashier and other employees, among others.
 
 ACB sleuths are also simultaneously probing allegations that general store items worth Rs 25,31,671 were purchased without following prescribed procedures. “Not just general store items, but consumable items worth Rs 77,005 were purchased and payments made without recording proper details of services providers,” the official said.
 
 Retired RU professor R B Singh, who had filed a complaint before the ACB, had alleged that in the university’s audit report had shown that an amount of Rs 77,005 was embezzled, but the case was never pursued properly. The culprits, alleged Singh, were never made accountable and over Rs 1 lakh each was paid to some teachers in addition to their salary or pension.
 
 “I am appalled and horrified at the failing standards of academics at the   as I have taught there for several decades. Things have come to such an extent when teachers are using self-financing courses for their personal benefit,” Singh told TOI over the phone.
 
 While the ACB is likely to file another FIR in the case, sleuths said that the incriminating evidence against the accused teachers were a glaring example of misdeeds committed by those entrusted to nurture the institution.
 
 The ACB had found irregularities in the appointment of guest faculty. “The audit report of the university has itself confirmed that payments were made to tainted teachers while overlooking all the established norms and code of conduct of the university’s syndicate and rules of the state government,” the official said.
 
 Moreover, as per the university guidelines, though the director and the joint director could only avail of Rs 2,000 and 1,500 per month as administrative charges, these officials had charged as much as Rs 8,000 per month in clear violation of the rules.
 
 Investigators have also found that FYLC directors gave backdoor entry to their favourite teachers by manipulating the norms.
 
 The agency has lodged a case of misuse of office and criminal conspiracy against  , the then director;   , director;  , director;  , joint director; R A Akar, cashier; and against other officials, employees and contractual employees of the period.
 
