CHANDIGARH:   chief and former chief minister Captain   only had a “VIP stint” in the Army, according to former Army chief General J J Singh (Retd), who is most likely Shiromani Akali Dal’s candidate from the state’s   constituency against Amarinder. If the opening salvos of the two veterans are anything to go by, one can expect the battle for Patiala to get ugly over the next month.

 Speaking exclusively to TOI from Patiala, where he has already launched his campaign, Singh said, “I would have saluted Amarinder during the 1965 India-Pakistan war when he was serving in the Army, but this man, in true maharaja style, chose to be the ADC (aide-de-camps) to the then Army commander.
 
 It’s a VIP profile where you do administrative work. The Army is a proud institution... Amarinder hardly served for three years but prattles off his service record like a veteran. Everybody knows how he wrote his last book with one Army man Shergill.”
 
 The former Army chief was additional director of military operations during the Kargil war in 1999. He was also the first Sikh to lead the Indian Army, and has led the   based at Chandimandir, Chandigarh, in the past.
 
 The 71-year-old began his campaign on Thursday by paying obeisance at gurdwara Dukhnivaran Sahib. “Both Amarinder and I are of around the same age.
 
 We are both from the  , and both went to the Infantry,” he added.
 
 “This man can’t even walk 10 kilometres. I may be 70-plus but I have the physique of a 17-year-old. I am a mountaineer. I am an adventurer. 
 (explosive) 
 ” he added.
 
 When asked about his good relations with Congress, the party that made him Arunachal Pradesh governor in 2008, the veteran said that “it was a well thought out strategy to be pitted against Amarinder”.
 
 “It will be a good quadrangular fight and I enjoy a keen contest. I want to test my skills. I have spent my childhood in Patiala. Let it be known to Patialvis how Amarinder has never entered local gurdwaras or visited their homes. 
 
 In fact, in 2012, I was trying to ring Amarinder for two days before poll results. I could never approach him. This, when I was a governor. Two days later, he lost the polls. I am glad we never spoke after that,” said Singh.
 
 Amarinder hasn’t held back either. Talking about his rival, he added, “It will be the first time in the history of Army that a captain will defeat a general,” he said in Chandigarh on Friday. 
 
 
 
 
