BENGLURU: Organized smuggling rings in India are increasingly making commercial aircraft ‘temporary homes’ for smuggled gold. Employing freely available technology that allows tracking the voyage of a plane, they are able to evade stringent customs and immigration checks on international routes, and throw intelligence agencies off track. 

 Confessions from arrested smugglers and busts in Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Lucknow in the past three months have revealed how smugglers sit at computer screens and track ‘registration’ numbers of aircraft that the gold is concealed in, to learn its next schedule, route and even ‘rest period’ which indicates servicing. 
 
 Unlike a flight number — AI974 for example — which changes as an aircraft shifts routes, a registration number is like the IMEI code of a mobile phone, unique to each plane. All aircraft registered with the   (DGCA) have such a unique registration number beginning with ‘VT’ and followed by numerals.
 
 The gangs have a well-conceived modus operandi: A smuggler conceals gold in the aircraft after boarding at a foreign airport. The plane lands at an Indian airport, and he disembarks without the gold, getting past customs and immigration.
 
 His associates continuously tracking the aircraft — they are even able to track its next schedule and route besides rest time — begin alerting team members in different cities. They wait for the aircraft to get on to a domestic route and do at least two trips. Then, one of them books a ticket, gets on to the plane and retrieves the gold. 
 
 Their ability to track the aircraft gives them the luxury of picking up the gold when the plane is on a domestic shift, where hand baggage is not checked on the way out of the arrival terminal, unless agencies are looking specifically looking for smuggled goods. 
 
 “While there is a regular service and general check after every flight, hangar servicing, which involves engine health check and complete examination, happens after completion of a few mandatory kilometres. Given that the smugglers even track the resting/hangar period, they are able to plan the retrieval carefully,” a department of revenue intelligence (DRI) source said.
 
  FLIGHT CASE
 
 In one case, gold was concealed in an   flight (AI-974) on February 11 in Muscat, and the aircraft landed in Delhi, but the gold remained concealed. It then began its duties on the domestic circuit, flew the Vadodara-Mumbai route before being rescheduled on the Delhi-Ahmedabad route, carrying the gold all the while. 
 
 On February 15, smugglers decided to retrieve the gold in Ahmedabad, when the DRI intercepted their plan, resulting in a seizure of assorted gold jewellery weighing 1.2kg, worth between Rs 50 lakh to Rs 55 lakh. 
 
 In the absence of specific intelligence, the smuggler would have walked out with the gold in his hand baggage, which agencies concede has happened. “There are about 30,000 passengers using domestic flights per day. Unless we really know, there is no way,” a senior DRI official said, adding that investigations are on to check the involvement of airport and airline staff, and employees of security and intelligence agencies.
 
 The Ahmedabad bust happened after the DRI in Bengaluru got a tip-off and alerted officials in Gujarat. In another case in March, an aircraft with 1.2kg gold from Dubai reached India and did seven domestic flights carrying it, before the metal was seized in Lucknow. 
 
 In April, we’ve seized more than 10kg of gold at   (KIA), Bengaluru, worth more than Rs 2crore. There have been more seizures in other airports.
 
 “We call it the Drop-Box method. Smugglers do a lot of planning, they are able to find safe spots behind commodes in the toilet, where they wrap gold and tie them to pipes using wires. Some aircraft that Air India use have long hollow spaces below the window seats, which is another place gold is stashed,” a DRI source, who has investigated more than one such case, said.
 
