CHENNAI: Call it the great southern revv party. The southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh & Telengana and Kerala together now comprise India’s second largest passenger vehicle market clocking the highest sales growth. These five states top the growth chart in passenger vehicle sales in the first 9 months of this fiscal. Tamil Nadu has topped the growth index in the period with a 20% tally followed by AP+Telengana at 18.6% and Kerala at 18.3%. Karnataka bringing up the rear at 11.2%. This turbo-charged passenger vehicle sales down south has also turned this region into the second biggest passenger vehicle market in the country at 6,72,725 units (in the first 9 months of FY17) clocking a 17% growth. In contrast, the earlier bulge-market north is flat at 0.30% and is sharply lower in total volume at 6,08,287 units, industry data showed. Analysts say that's because demonetisation had a much lower impact in the south than elsewhere in India. Consider the statistics: Delhi is down 3.3%, Rajasthan down 0.3%, Haryana’s growth is 4%, Madhya Pradesh 2.7% and UP & Uttaranchal 2.3%. The only growth outside of southern India has been in the west with both Maharashtra (up 13%) and Gujarat (up nearly 9%) showing top gear performance.  This performance propels the west as the top passenger vehicle market in India with a nine-month tally of 708,283 units, a 1,00,000 units lead over the northern bloc.  In state terms, Tamil Nadu has shown top gear growth every quarter this year – nearly 20% in Q1, 25.7% in Q2 and 13.4% in Q3. A report by equity research firm Kotak Institutional Equities said that the reason for this superlative performance has to do with demonetisation. ‘Southern India was not impacted by demonetisation while North and West India were the most impacted, even though passenger vehicles were less impacted than two-wheelers,’’ said the report. Car marketers agree with that argument saying that the demonetisation created a whole new market dynamic across the country.  “The proportion of cash transactions are maximum in the north hence the demand hit. But also southern state economies are doing and purchasing power is getting better due to start-up activity which has created additional demand,” said Abdul Majeed, partner, PwC.  Not all industry experts are convinced this southern surge will continue though. “Essentially automobile demand comes from 6-7 states which together control 70% of India’s GDP. Some new states may show disproportionate growth but that’s because they have a clean slate. Unless this southern surge continues for a couple of years, it will only be a temporary blip,’’said Kumar Kandaswami, senior director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India.