BENGALURU/MUMBAI: Flipkart's co-founder and erstwhile CEO  , who'd been away from the company's day-to-day operations, is making a comeback of sorts as he unveils a set of products under the ' .

 Billion will be a private label from the Flipkart stable which, Bansal said, will be made for India and made in India. "There are few products or brands which have been innovated keeping in mind the core Indian masses and that was the genesis for Billion," Bansal told TOI during an interaction.
 
 The launch of the brand comes at a time when both   and Flipkart are pushing hard to expand India's online retail consumption base and bring in millions of people into the e-tailing universe.While Amazon has been diversifying its line of offerings with the launch of its membership programme Prime and focus on content, food and grocery, Flipkart is stressing on bringing in localised innovations which cater to Indian needs of the masses.
 
 
  Flipkart's CEO, Kalyan   had said that he was confident the next 50-100 million Indian customers who will come on board the online retail market will be driven by local innovations introduced by the homegrown e-com merce company and not by a foreign player, without directly naming Amazon.
 
 To start with, Billion will launch kitchen appliances like mixers and grinders, cookware, irons and lifestyle products such as backpacks. Bansal said the idea is to cater to the masses which will also reflect in its pricing being highly competitive. Bansal said with 100% Indian manufacturing, Flipkart was in line with the government's Make In India initiative. Bansal said their research had shown a high level of dissatisfaction that existed among consumers despite a plethora of products being already present in the market.
 
 "Private brands have gained prominence but that has not resulted in other sellers losing share. They grow the overall sales on a plat form. This has happened on Myntra and I hope to see the same at Flipkart," Bansal said, referring to sellers complaining about private brands being propped up by e-commerce players compared to third-party brands.
 
 Flipkart’s fashion and lifestyle portal Myntra has been able to make success of its private brands like Roadster, HRX, Mast & Harbour, among others which contribute about 20% to its overall sales. Since private brands are in-house they help in shoring up a retailer’s margins. “Private brands have gained prominence but that has not resulted in other sellers losing share. They grow the overall sales on a platform. This has happened on Myntra and I hope to see the same at Flipkart, “ Bansal said referring to sellers complaining about private brands being propped up by e-commerce players compared to third-party brands. 
 
 Amazon recently launched private brands like Solimo, Symbol and Myx besides its hugely succesful Amazon Basics in India while Flipkart introduced SmartBuy last December along with two private labels in fashion---Metronaut and Divastri. The private label push from these web retailers comes at at a time when the India internet shopping universe which is pegged at about 60-70 million strong ( these are registered users) has stagnated after registering exponential growth in 2014-15. The base of regular online shoppers (who’ve bought something once a year or more) is far smaller at about 20-30 million which is what both Amazon and Flipkart are looking to grow.
 
 
