I rawati Karve in her book `Yuganta', a rereading of the Mahabharata says, “The Mahabharata is an   There are various ways of making it yield riches.“ As none can encompass and explore the many facets of the epic in a single work, authors, in recent times have attempted to position the story in the current context. Others have tried to lend voice to characters who were pushed to the backburner in the original. Sashi Tharoor in `The  ' positioned the epic in the context of the Indian independence movement. While Anand Neelakan Ajaya: Roll of the Dice' was written tan's ` from the perspective of the Kauravas, mythologist Devdutt Pattanaik retold the epic in his illustrated novel `Jaya'.A recent addition to this list is Madhavi Mahadevan's `The Kaunteyas' -a retelling of the Mahabharata from the perspective of Kunti, the mother of the pandavas.
The book stands out in its fresh interpretation of the epic.Told as a first person narrative, the novel paints the character of Kunti as an intelligent, strong and thinking individual, who stands up for herself to keep her place in society . The author observes through Kunti, “Women's tales, too, have been told by men...they warn men that women are clever, conniving, deceitful and frequently the cause of dissension...they tell women how they should be and, more importantly not be“. Kunti in the novel says that while stories of men are etched on stone, that of women are written on water. This sets the tone and tenor of the narrative, giving the reader the message that Kunti here is not just the mother of the Pandavas, but a woman assertive about her rights.
 
 Kunti's disappointment with her life even at the early stages is evident when she is rather upset for being called by the name, even though her biological father Shurasena had named her Pritha.
 
 The book is written in three parts, each of them named after the men in Kunti's life -her foster father Kuntibhoja, her husband Pandu and her sons the Pandavas. The narrative starts with sage Durvasa granting Kunti the boon of the Vasikarna mantra. A curious Kunti uses the mantra, giving birth to Karna, whom she abandons to avoid the stigma of being an unwed mother. The part that portrays the anxiety and fear of Kunti for having crossed the line of social propriety , reads like a thriller.
 
 The second chapter delves into her marriage to Pandu -the cursed king o f Hastinapura, who cannot have intimacy with women ­ and his death for being intimate with Madri. It ends with a remorseful Kunti not accepting the apologies offered by Madri, whom she blames for Pandu's death.
 
 In the final part one witnesses how a guilt-ridden Kunti almost gives herself away at the sight of Karna, when she learns that he is her firstborn. The author handles the disrobing of   “Being a woman, Panchali had no use for the intricacies of manmade laws. Perhaps that is why the god within came for her help,“ it reads.
 
 When Kunti desires to retire to the forest with Pandu's brother Dhritarashtra and his wife Gandhari, the Pandavas are puzzled about her decision. But Kunti says there is nothing for her to look forward after having spent a life ridden with disappointments.   had hardened her mind.
 
