CHENNAI: As news of the violence spread, the authorities activated cellphone jammers on Beach Road and blocked the arterial roads to prevent more protesters from reaching Marina. The police personnel, however, came under attack from mobs in the nearby slums who hurled stones.

 Before noon,   across   were fighting pitched battles with the police.
 
 In Alanganallur near Madurai, 15 people were injured in police lathicharge. In Coimbatore, deputy commissioner of police S Lakshmi was injured in stone pelting at Gandhipuram bus stand. Protesters in Erode ransacked a beverage vehicle.
 
 Chennai woke up to a violent day as police moved in to evict the protesters from   around 6.15am. Protesters ran towards the shoreline, but were removed in batches. The situation got out of hand around 10am when protesters came out of the beach and pelted stones at policemen on the road. Police resorted to lathicharge.
 
 Meanwhile, mobs from slums along the elevated MRTS track near Marina, comprising mostly teenagers and youngsters, tried to move to the beach. Police stopped them at Nedukuppam, Bharathi Salai and Parthasarathy temple arch.
 
 As news of a mob burning down Ice House police station spread around 11.30am, protesters in the nearby slums grew more violent. They attempted to push the policemen back by setting vehicles on fire. Police retaliated with tear gas shells, many of which did not work. Teenagers and youngsters hiding inside tenements threw burning tyres at police.
 
 At Bharathi Salai, a mob threw petrol bombs at policemen. Similar scenes unfolded at Parthasarathy temple arch and Nedukuppam. At Parthasarathy arch, which is 50m from the beach, a group set a car on fire. Elsewhere bikes went up in flames. The protesters used petrol from the vehicles to make fuel bombs.
 
 Police had trouble hitting back at the slum dwellers as they attacked from a narrow lane near Parthasarathy arch. At Bharathi Salai, teenagers hurled stones from the elevated MRTS tracks at police teams below. Some dropped concrete slabs, weighing about 100kg from the tracks. When policemen managed to push forward, the mob ran into narrow lanes and hid inside tenements, making it difficult for the cops to find them. Police could only pick up a handful of them after much struggle. Those picked up were wearing school bags and denied any involvement in the violence.
 
 By night, some 1,000 Jallikattu supporters were staying put on the Marina.
 
