VARANASI: Of 2,711 polling booths of eight Assembly areas of the district, only 738 booths of Cantonment and City North assembly constituencies will be equipped with Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines on the polling day on March 8.

 The   will be introduced at 357 and 381 polling booths of the City North and  , respectively, where voters will get the verified paper record to of the vote they have cast. Giving details about the preparations by the district administration and police, district election officer/district magistrate   said on Thursday that the   (ECI) has introduced VVPAT machines along with the electronic voting machines for the first time in UP Assembly election. 
 
 At present, there are 27,79,103 voters, including 15,34,284 men, 2,44,695 women and 124 of third gender in the district. Number of specially abled voters is 10,608. These voters will exercise their franchise at 2,711 polling booths of 1,138 polling stations. Maximum number of voters are in Cantonment assembly area, while minimum are in  . The final list is yet to be published.
 
 The venue for filing of nomination papers by the candidates of different assembly areas have also been finalized. The candidates from Pindra assembly areas will file nomination at ADM (administration) office, Ajgara at settlement officer consolidation office, Shivpur at ADM (city) office, Rohania at deputy controller consolidation office, City North at ADM (civil supply), City South at ACM-III, Cantonment at ACM-IV office and Sevapuri at ADM (finance and revenue) office on collectorate campus. The nomination filing will start with the issuance of notification on February 9 and continue till February 16. 
 
 After process of scrutiny of nomination papers of candidates and withdrawal of papers on February 17 and 20, the final list of candidates would be released on February 20. The venues for sending polling parties to polling stations on the eve of polling day on March 7 have also been finalized.
 
 The district has been divided into 170 sectors and 22 zones to maintain law and order. Apart from deploying sector and zonal magistrates, one super zonal magistrate has also been deployed in each of the eight assembly areas. With the promulgation of model code of conduct on Wednesday afternoon, special drives were carried out in urban and rural areas to remove political publicity material. The magistrates and circle officers are monitoring these exercises.
 
 To monitor the enforcement of model code of conduct, expenditure being made by candidates and other poll activities, flying squads, static vigilance team, videography team, video monitoring team, media certification and monitoring team have been constituted. Assistant expenditure observer have also been deployed in each assembly area. An election control room has been constituted. Anybody can make complaint or get information on 0542-2505114 any time. 
 
