Style lessons tied up with Donald Trump’s ridiculously long necktie

 Unless you have been living under a rock, you know the US has just sworn in its 45th president. But this is not about that. Agreed that Trump’s thali of troubles brimmeth over but there’s one problem that he could have licked by now but hasn’t: his ridiculously long necktie. 
 
 If you have been following the man you must have noticed his unconventionally elongated take on the tie. It hangs woefully low. Now, the universal tie rule says that the tie should end at the belt buckle. But then   is known for his rule-breaking.
  
 
 
 Not really, says stylist and image consultant Yatan Ahluwalia. Long neckties look sloppy and spoil the shape of the suit. In an article in Mirror, sartorial expert   calls ''Donald Trump’s preposterous crotch-skimming ties a deliberate crime against fashion.'' According to Grant, a man’s choice of neckwear says a lot about him. After all, it’s a very visible statement. 
 
 Trump may be using his ties to send the message that “he’s different”, and not cut from the same mould. It’s his way of cocking a snook at sartorial rules – his style modus operandi. ''Trump also has been using colours of the American flag to add a patriotic feel,'' says Ahluwalia. 
 
 But the ties to the basic red and blue are steeped in history dating back to the time when neckties were cravats. Blue was associated with the blue blood of British nobility, while red represented the red blood of the Guards. A 2015 study said that red on women makes men feel more amorous towards them. In sports, athletes wearing red are known to outperform their opponents. Also studies have shown that referees cut red-clad sportspersons some slack. Politicians, of course, love these odds. Neckties are a way to get some love.
 
 
 
 Are you Trump? No! Then maybe still stick to the conventions. Like him or not President Trump is a unique personality and dresses up to reflect it. It’s a cultivated look. As the witty   once said: “Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.”
 
 
 
 The golden rule for tie wearing is that it should reach the belt buckle or the waistband of the trousers. Any shorter and you like a tie rookie. Any longer and you are in danger of getting it stuck in your fly. 
  
 
 
 #1 Match or contrast the colour of your tie with your suit or shirt.
 #2 Modern ties are slimmer and narrower 
 than their broad, retro counterparts.
 #3 Choose between plain, printed or textured patterns.
 #4 Tie clips, tie chains, tie straps and tie tacks are seldom used now, so the knot becomes the attention seeker.
 #5 The inner band must be at least an inch shorter than the outer one.
 
 
