JAIPUR: It was a grand welcome for senior   leader  , who returned to his home state on Friday after the party’s historic win in Uttar Pradesh. Mathur is in-charge of party affairs in UP.

 Mathur, who is also the   MP from the state, was felicitated by party workers at several places along the Delhi-Jaipur highway. He arrived to an equally rousing welcome at his residence in Jaipur on Friday evening. Several hoardings and banners were put up to welcome him.
 
 Mathur’s welcome and procession on the Delhi-Jaipur highway reminded several of a similar show for chief minister Vasundhara Raje in February 2013, when she was named the party’s state president. This was seen as a show of strength in political circles and sparked rumors regarding a change in state leadership. Reacting to speculations, Mathur said, “These are baseless talks and the media is reading too much into them. After the party’s success in UP elections, party workers are an excited lot and the welcome was only a way of celebrating their joy.”
 
 He said that the performance of the party in UP was a result of PM Narendra Modi’s policies and development-oriented governance. “It is a major step towards Congress-free country,” he said. He added that on the directives of PM, elected representatives of the party and workers would spend at least 72 hours among people between April 6 and April 14 to gather feedback on the work done.
 
 Mathur is on a three-day visit to the state. He is scheduled to visit   on Saturday and go to his village in Pali on Sunday.
 
 Speculations of a change in leadership were also denied by other party leaders of the state. "Vasundhara Raje is the chief minister and she will complete five years as chief minister,” BJP state president Ashok Parnami said at the party headquarters here. He said that the party's focus was on winning the next assembly and parliamentary elections in the state.
 
 “The complete focus of the party at the Centre and the state level is to win the assembly elections in 2018 and parliamentary elections in 2019. This is our target and we will achieve,” he said. Parnami also exuded confidence that BJP would win the   assembly bypoll scheduled to be held on April 9.
 
