PUNE: The newly inaugurated weekly ‘Humsafar Express’ between   and Tiruchchirappalli, will be passing and stopping at different stations in the Pune division, railway officials said on Tuesday.

 The inaugural run of the train was flagged off by Union railway minister   on February 27 from Sri Ganganagar in northern Rajasthan through a  . “Train number 14715 (Sri Ganganagar- Tiruchchirappalli) will be running every Tuesday while train number 14716 (Tiruchchirappalli-Sri Ganganagar) will be running every Thursday.
 
 The train will depart from Sri Ganganagar at 12.25am and pass through stations like Vasai Road, Kalyan, Lonavla, Pune, Satara, Sangli, Miraj, Belgavi and Karur before reaching its destination. 
 
 The commercial stoppages of the train include Vasai Road, Kalyan, Lonavla, Pune, Satara, Sangli and Miraj in Pune and Mumbai suburban.
 
 New catering policy
 
 The Pune division of the central railways has said they were closely following the newly introduced catering policy to provide good and clean food to passengers in the Pune division.
 
 Sources said the policy was presently being studied and required changes. “The final policy will be implemented in the Pune division,” they said. 
 
 “Instructions have been given to private caterers to ensure that the food is hygienic. It has been noticed that many people take to social networking sites to express their anger and frustration against poor quality food served in certain trains. Similar complains have been received on social networking sites against trains originating and arriving in the Pune division. It is high time that the officials concerned as well as caterers pay heed to all these complaints and improve the service,” a railway official said.
 
 The complaints on Twitter range from pricing to poor quality of food.
 
 Thief caught
 
 Melwin Paul D’souza (29) was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing Rs 23,269 from the office of the divisional railway manager (DRM) in Pune on February 16. Police said D’souza hails from Goa and was spotted in a room on the ground floor of the office where the accounts department was located. “He was constantly moving in the area and carried out the theft around 4am,” police said, adding that some costly cellphones have been recovered from his possession.
 
