CHANDIGARH: As the Punjab government finalizes a new  , it has revived hope of the   department to get a go ahead to retain half of the funds collected as   in the state. Even as the number of fatal accidents keep going up in Punjab, the force remains dangerously unequipped to check traffic violations.

 On Friday, ADGP (traffic) M K Tewari said that the proposal to use half of the road safety fund was pending with the state government and should get a go ahead soon. Sources in the government said that this would give the traffic police around Rs 30 crore a year and help the force equip itself with speed guns and alcometers. Speeding and drunken driving are two biggest factors contributing to deaths on the state roads.
 
 In the last three years, state police alone collected revenue of more than Rs 36 crore from traffic challans, in which Rs 14.3 crore was collected from compoundable challan. The department of finance’s letter dated July 18, 2012, suggested that 50% of the total fee collected via compoundable challan by the traffic wing of   shall be given to different societies formed by the force at district or state level, so that concerned traffic wing can use the same for procurement of traffic management gadgets and run awareness drives.
 
 The matter was also taken up by “Punjab State Road Safety Council” in its meeting held on August 23, 2012. Later the council was reconstituted but matter was not taken up by traffic police or transport department.
 
 “Unlike other states like Haryana, where the state has decided to transfer almost half of the funds raised from compoundable traffic challans for this road safety fund; Punjab has limited the amount of the resources. Some states have also charges a nominal cess on every bottle of liquor sold in the state. If these two proposals get a go-ahead, Punjab could have raised around Rs 50 crore annually,” a government official pointed out.
 
 The state government has already prepared its ‘Road Safety Policy’, which highlighted the need for setting up of a road safety research and development centre, along with road safety laboratory in collaboration with the state’s engineering and medical colleges. Institute tie-ups can help with road safety analysis software development and human resource development required.
 
