NEW DELHI: Even as 
  in Jammu and Kashmir continue to be on the rise,   ( ) officers reportedly got a personal letter from Air Chief Marshal   asking them to be prepared for operations "at a very short notice", reported ANI news agency.

 ANI didn't say when this letter was written but some media reports said the Air Chief Marshal wrote to the officers just a little over a month ago.
 
  "In the present scenario, there is an ever persistent sub-conventional threat. Therefore, we need to be prepared for operations with our present holdings, at a very short notice. Training needs to be focused towards this," said the letter, ANI reported.
 
 
 
 The "sub-conventional threat" is likely a reference to what India has often called a "
  ", that is, attacks funded by the neighbouring country or carried out by so-called 'non-state actors' many of whom India has said have Islamabad or   intelligence sanction. 
 
 The reference to "our present holdings" in the letter is likely a shortfall in the number of fighter squadrons with the IAF. The force is authorised 42 squadrons of fighter aircraft but has only 33.
 
 Despite this shortfall, the Air Chief in his letter told officers "there is no choice" but to be combat effective professionals. 
 
 "…there is no choice but to stay abreast of new technological advancements both (our) own as well as that of our adversaries. Only then will we come out with war-winning, out of the box solutions," he said in his letter.
 
 Air Chief Dhanoa's letter also addressed issues of alleged "favouritism" and "sexual harassment" on the force.
 
 "In the recent past, there have been instances and occasions where lack of professionalism has shown the IAF in poor light".
 
 These are things the IAF can "ill afford", he said.
 
 "…we have been witness to a few instances of 'favouritism' in selection of officers for prime assignments and promotions…This is something we can ill afford," the letter reads, according to ANI.
 
 His letter further warned that "abusive behaviour, resorting to physical intimidation and behaviour amounting to sexual harassment by seniors" are things that are "not acceptable".
 
 
 
 Air Chief Dhanoa's letter was mailed to all the nearly 12,000 IAF officers. 
 
 An IAF spokesperson told ANI the letter is "internal communication" and refused to comment on its contents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
