Being physically active and maintaining a healthy weight can help you take care of your   and prevent diabetes problems.   helps your   stay in target range. It helps the hormone insulin to absorb glucose into all your body's cells, including your muscles, for energy. If your body does not produce sufficient insulin or the insulin does not work efficiently, then body's cells do not utilize glucose that raises the blood glucose level too high and cause diabetes. Physical activity should be structured, regular and a blend of isotonic and isometric exercises.
 
  When you do physical exercise, your muscle can utilize glucose with less insulin. Alternatively, we can say it does not matter if you are insulin resistant or you do not have sufficient insulin; when you do physical exercise, your muscles get glucose they need and hence reduces blood glucose level. Moreover, if you are insulin resistant, exercise makes your insulin more effective, which means your   goes down when you exercise, and your cells can use the glucose more effectively.   reduces insulin resistance and hence reduces heart attack and stroke.
  
  In people with diabetes who take insulin or certain diabetes medicines, there are chances of getting a low blood glucose called hypoglycaemia. In case of hypoglycaemia, a person may have a seizure or go into a coma and in worst case, may die. Exercise can cause   in people who are taking insulin or certain other medications. Thus, for a diabetic person, it is important to have sugar in the pocket and consult your doctor regarding how to stay active safely.
  
  Along with physical activity, you need to follow a healthy diet and proper medications to prevent diabetic complications. Various studies have shown that people with   who reduced their weight with exercise and healthy diet are less prone to diabetes and heart diseases. Even without reaching a healthy weight, just a 10 or 15 pound weight loss can make a difference in reducing the risk of diabetes problems.
  
  Therefore if you have type 2 diabetes, physical activity is a vital component of your treatment plan. In addition, it is equally important to follow a healthy meal plan and maintain your blood glucose level through medications or insulin, if necessary. Even if you are not a diabetic, physical activity reduces the possibility of developing Diabetes, Blood pressure and heart attack. I practice what I preach would you stay active, stay fit?
  
  
 
  
  
