PUNE: The   against the   continued on a  . 

 On Monday, 169 drivers were pulled up by policemen for the offence. Of these, 150 licences were confiscated to be recommended for suspension, taking the total tally since the start of the drive to 1101.
 
 All drivers whose licences have been recommended for suspension face risk of being ineligible to get behind the wheel for 90 days, pending a final decision by the   (RTO).
 
 Besides responding to the show-cause notice from the RTO, they would also have to sit through a day’s session on road safety before they get back their licences. A permanent entry of the offence is also likely in their records with the transport office.
 
 According to the traffic police, even a single offence of using a cellphone while driving is sufficient to suspend the driving licence, and it is recommended in every case. 
 
 Drivers who intentionally or unintentionally do not produce a driving licence when asked by the traffic police are then told to pay an additional fine of Rs 1,000, besides the penalty of Rs 200 for the use of their cellphones. Since these offenders do not have licences, their cases cannot be recommended for suspension. 
 
 The campaign, initiated last week to stop drivers from the dangerous practice of talking and texting on their cellphones while driving has managed to catch many by surprise almost in all the divisions of the department.
 
 An analysis of data collated by the traffic division reveals most cases came from the congested parts like Bharti Vidyapeeth, Swargate, Vishrantwadi, Hinjewadi, Hadapsar, Bund Garden, Dattawadi and even Pimpri on a few days.
 
 Most offenders have been sighted by the traffic police almost 200-225 metres before the junction and hauled up when they reached the signal. Traffic wardens also informed their counterparts about these offenders. In some cases, mobile patrolling vehicles of the traffic police caught the offenders red-handed. 
 
 Several offenders are two-wheeler riders, risking not just their lives by holding the cellphone between their head and the shoulder, or in one of their hands, thus maneouvering their vehicles with one hand through heavy traffic.
 
 The traffic department is bouyed by the response. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said, “We are were happy we conducted this all-out drive to enforce this rule. At least it has woken up citizens to the risks involved in using their cellphones with driving. There is also a fear among them that they can be caught.”
 
