LUCKNOW:   will launch a campaign blitzkrieg in the final leg of   assembly election, addressing six public rallies in the last seven days before the   comes to an end on March 6.

 With opposition parties firing on all cylinders, the   strategists have planned to utilise Modi charisma to the maximum. Leading from the front, Modi had already addressed about 15 rallies in the state so far. The BJP think tank had initially planned two rallies of the PM in each of the party’s six regions, but the strategy was swiftly changed and the number was increased as per the emerging scenario.
 
 The main criteria followed while fixing PM’s rallies had primarily been the party’s bid to give a last-minute push to campaigning in the constituencies which, as per its internal survey, were either very or slightly weak. The PM’s first rally was held at Meerut on February 4, followed by Aligarh on February 5, Ghaziabad on February 8, Badaun on February 11, Lakhimpur on February 13, Kannauj on February 15, Hardoi and Barabanki on February 16, Fatehpur on February 19, Phulpur and Orai on February 20, Bahraich on February 23 and Basti and Gonda on February 24.
 
 Though a rally was also planned in Amethi on February 25, alleged internal bickering and resentment against a few party candidates in the district led to BJP strategists dropping the idea. The runner-up in Lok Sabha election against Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and Union minister for textiles, Smriti Irani, instead addressed a rally in Amethi.
 
 As per plan, Modi will now on February 27 address a rally in Mau, a constituency where Mafia-don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and his son Abbas Ansari are in fray on BSPO tickets. Mukhtar is contesting from Mau Sadar, while Abbas is making his electoral debut from Ghosi, also in Mau. 
 
 On March 1, the PM will address two rallies: one at Deoria and the second at Maharajganj. This would be followed by rallies in Mirzapur on February 3, Jaunpur on February 4 and Varanasi on February 5, though the dates are still tentative.
 
 Interestingly, as per initial plan, the PM might also spend February 4 night in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency. BJP chief Amit Shah had already been frequenting Varanasi and camping in the prestigious constituency.
 
 
