CHARMINAR: A two-year-long wait for  , 18, finally bore fruit after   (OGH) doctors performed a hip   to give him relief from the pain of the bullet injuries sustained in his home country.

 For his left hip that got completely damaged a team of doctors led by orthopedic surgeon Dr MV Reddy constructed a bone model. The surgery was performed on Wednesday. It may be recalled that the construction of the bone model needed material worth 1.35 lakh that held up his surgery at OGH until Telangana chief minister   intervened by releasing the required funds from his CM relief funds. This was possible after TOI highlighted his plight in these columns. In fact, the chief minister office (CMO) went out of its way and released the required budget within three hours after TOI broke the story.
 
 The hospital was asked to make a requisition about the cost and material needed for the surgery. Meanwhile, Dr K Kodandapani, head, Department of Orthopedics, said that the patient is doing fine even as hospital superintendent Dr GVS Murthy congratulated the entire team including the Chief Minister Office. Abdul was struck by a bullet during a battle between militants and security forces. The Afghan landed at OGH last month with little money.
 
 It was around two years ago that the bullet hit Qahar's pelvis from the right and tore into his colon, ripping through his bladder and damaging his hip bone. Even the exit wound was visible on the left side of his pelvis. Later Kabul's emergency hospital Surgical and Medical Centre for Civilian War Victims operated upon him twice: once in December 2014 and later in January 2015, but could do little to make Abdul walk again. Abdul arrived in India on January 3 after his friends in Kabul told them that the treatment at the Osmania General Hospital could be free.
 
 The Afghan boy got a letter from member of National Assembly, Nader Khan Katawazai, who wrote to the Indian embassy for a visa for treatment. For their part, the OGH doctors explored all options to arrange funds for his treatment.
 
