PUNE: Prices of most vegetables in the city remain constant -between Rs 4060 per kg -but tomatoes and French beans continue to burn a hole in  .

 For the last 10 days and counting, tomatoes are being sold at Rs 100 per kg in retail markets due to shortage in wholesale supply.Retailers blame the ongoing   and sluggish output at farms for ruining tomato supplies.
 
 Even French beans are being sold at Rs100-120 per kg in the retail market, mainly due to a lack of produce in the wholesale market. An   (APMC) official told TOI that demand for French beans dips in the rainy season.“ Because of that, supplies to the markets also come down. Excessive rains tend to affect some crops adversely,“ he said.
 
 Yakub Pathan, owner of the Fresh Vegetable Market in Wakad, said French bean prices have been on an upswing for about a month now.“Before Friday, French beans were sold at Rs60 per kg in the retail market. On Friday however, the price doubled, to Rs120 per kg. On Friday, the   had no supply of French Beans, which caused the prices to rise,“ Pathan said of the situation.
 
 Tomatoes too are being sold between Rs80 and Rs100 in most retail markets. Kailash Kolhe, a vegetable vendor in Koregaon Park, said, “We buy tomatoes from wholesalers at Rs70 per kg, and sell them at Rs80 per kg. Intense rain spells in tomato growing regions is ruining the crop, apart from making the harvested tomatoes pale in colour,“ Kolhe said. With 50% less supply of tomatoes in the market, the cost of tomatoes has continued to spiral upwards in the last few weeks. With less availability of tomatoes, the prices will continue to remain this way, stated sources from APMC.
 
 However, improved production is supposed to bring down tomato prices from mid-August and September.
 
 According to sources in the market, during last month's farmers' strike, many tillers had destroyed their standing crop as they were not sure how long the strike would go on for. Incessant rains too played spoilsport, bringing down production. However, the APMC hopes that things would improve and markets would normalize by August.
 
 Dilip Khire of Pune APMC added that incessant rains had damaged tomato crops and supply from farmers had depleted, which had caused the prices to rise over the last two months. Gadhve said that Narayangaon, which is one of the largest tomato suppliers, was seeing only 25% supply in the last two months.“There are about 70-80 villages in Narayangaon that supply tomatoes. With less production, we are only getting 200 metric tonne instead of 800 metric tonne of tomatoes during the same period last year,“ he said. He further added that the tomatoes coming from North India, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have reduced.
 
 Meanwhile, vegetable vendor Nanasaheb Awate from NIBM Road said that since the wholesale prices of tomatoes had gone up, he can no longer afford to buy it, and so stopped stocking the vegetable at his stall.
 
 “The prices of all vegetables increased during the monsoon and tomatoes are practically impossible to get. For the last three days, my vegetable vendor has not been keeping tomatoes at his stall, so I've not been able to buy,“ said working professional Nina Shah.
 
