LUCKNOW: Just as one candidate for the assembly elections in the city visited the Hanuman temple before filing nomination, another went to his guru. Not to touch his feet but to get thrashed by him. “It is a ritual for me to get beaten up by my guru Umesh Chandra Chaturvedi for good luck before going for any important task,” independent candidate for Bakshi Ka Talab constituency Ajeet Kumar told TOI, sharing the story of how he has followed the superstition since he was five and was refusing to go to school.

 On his mother’s request, his teacher came home and beat him up. “After that, I did well in all subjects, including maths,” he said, adding that in class IX he decided once again to quit studies. “And once again, my guruji thrashed me and I did well in High School exams,” he said. 
 
 If Kumar’s superstition goes back to his childhood, that of his BJP rival is child-like. Avinash Dwivedi never gets out of bed till someone calls him by his nickname Babloo. BJP’s   candidate mostly waits for his mother to call out, ‘Uth jaa,   (wake up, Babloo)’ before he is on his feet. His nickname is his lucky charm ever since his student life. 
 
 Congress candidate from Lucknow East, Anurag Bhadauria has only worn green kurta on blue jeans for the last eight years. “Besides being easy on the eyes and dirt-proof, it is my lucky colour,” he said, adding, “Eight years back, my first green kurta continued to be lucky for me in the two years I wore it. Since then, it has become a belief,” he said about the superstition. 
 
 Contesting on BJP ticket from Lucknow Central, Brajesh Pathak always keeps with him a handkerchief-size, red ‘Devi maa ki chunri’ that has worked as his lucky charm since 2004. He won the election for the first time in 2004 from Unnao on BSP ticket for Lok Sabha. “The ‘chunri’ has never failed me,” Pathak told TOI. 
 
 SP candidate from Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT), Gomti Yadav walks out of his home only after distributing ‘prasad’ to family members and all those present in the house at the time. On the day results of 2012 assembly elections were announced, Yadav left home after distributing prasaad. “I was declared winner from BKT seat and since then I have followed the practice,” he said. 
 
 Samajwadi Party’s Malihabad candidate Rajbala Rawat, who is contesting to fulfil her father’s dream of being elected MLA from the rural constituency believes the shawl given to her by her late father is her lucky charm. She has never worn the shawl but has vowed to wear it only in her victory rally as MLA of Malihabad. 
 
 Independent candidate from Lucknow West, Nitin Dwivedi, an ardent follower of Lord Hanuman, never starts his campaigning without visiting the Hanuman temple near his home. He is a resident of Sarojininagar and when asked why he chose to contest for Lucknow West instead, he said, “It was not my choice but how things were destined to happen. It was the will of Lord Hanuman.” 
 
 Another independent candidate, from Lucknow East, Kailash Bahadur Singh said his luck favouring him most on Tuesdays. Besides, numbers 13 and 21 are lucky for him too. “It was Tuesday both when I submitted my application and when I filed nomination. I got election number 13 while my ballot is also number 13. On my nomination day my serial number was 21,” he said. Singh said ever since he got married on a Tuesday in 2011, his luck has continued to favour him. “Good luck will continue in the elections as well,” he said.
 
