KOLKATA: The super luxury hotel space in the City of Joy added another feather in its cap on Tuesday with US hotel major Holiday Inn opening its doors on Tuesday. 

 The launch of Holiday Inn, Airport, takes the number of newly added rooms in the city’s five-star space in last four months to 328. It is almost a 35% jump in the number of rooms in the super deluxe category from the existing 917. 
 
 The flagship brand of global giant Intercontinental will cater to the middle-to-upper segment of hospitality business in the city.
 
 J W Marriott, another global hospitality brand, has started its operation here from October last year with 191 rooms, which would go up to 281 in the next few months. In six months, another 300-400 rooms will be added in this category as Westin, the deluxe brand of Starwood, would start operation in the city before Durga Puja. ITC Royal Bengal, the five-star   of ITC Group, would start operation from next year. The total count of super-deluxe rooms would add up to 2,148 in the next 18 months once all the upcoming hospitality biggies start full-fledged operations. 
 
 Shantha De Silva, the head of  , pointed out it is quite confident of the Kolkata market. “We have a huge sales-and-distribution chain worldwide, which would market this property. Besides, we have 100 million members registered in our guest loyalty programme,” he added. After Kolkata, the group is planning to set up two more hotels under Holiday Inn brand in Siliguri and Durgapur. The city hotel has 137 rooms while the two upcoming hotels would have 120-125 rooms each. According to him, Bengal as a whole has a major role to play in its India policy.   has four hotel brands — Holiday Inn, Intercontinental, Crown Plaza and Holiday Inn Express. 
 
 Rishi Jain, executive director of Jain Group, the partner of Intercontinental in Bengal, said the hospitality industry has emerged as one of the key drivers of growth among the services sector in West Bengal. “Kolkata, nationally, has the highest percentage of occupancy as per the recently published HVS reports. There is a huge potential to explore in this market to contribute to the occupancy rate. Investment of major international players in the hospitality sector of Bengal will also help improve the economic condition of the state and generate local employment,” he added. 
 
 Jain said it has invested Rs 180 crore for the Kolkata property and would invest Rs 300-Rs 350 crore for the two upcoming hotels. “Our total investment in the state’s hospitality sector would be over Rs 500 crore,” he added. 
 
 
