One of the oldest Indian style statements — the   — is constantly undergoing a transformation and innovation every season. If last year was about different kinds of drapes and fabrics, this year it’s all about pairing your nine-yards with fusion   in modern cuts and silhouettes. Mandeep Nagi, design director for a clothing brand, says, “The sari has survived because of its ability to evolve in various cultures and regions at different times. Today, designers are coming up with looks that are identifiable with the younger generation. Wearing a sari with unconventional blouses can redefine the beauty of a woman. Whether it’s a peplum silhouettes, raglan sleeves or just a simple collared neckline, these innovative styles add a refreshing twist to the traditional garment.”

 
 
 The sari suit is a great way to wear the East-meets-West trend. You can wear a formal, well-fitted tux jacket as a blouse and drape your sari over it. The key is to go for a suit in a colour which complements your sari — avoid classics like black and white. You can also play with the length of the sleeves —instead of long sleeves, go for a three-fourth length. 
 
 
  
  
 Take a break from conventional cholis and recycle an embellished peplum top into a sari blouse for effortless glamour.   Amy Billimoria says, “It is an interesting silhouette. It can be teamed with a mermaid fit high-waisted skirt, which will give the illusion of wearing a gown. Another look to try: Team a deep V-neck peplum blouse with your sari and wear the pallu from underneath the blouse. 
 
 
 Add some old-world charm to your sari with an overcoat! It’s a throwback to the fashionable 40s and 50s, when long jackets that reached upto the knees were popular. For summers, go for light, breathable and handwoven fabrics. If you’re looking for a more festive look, go for a silk option with brocade work. Think Sonam Kapoor’s unconventional lace sari-embroidered jacket combination at the Cannes red carpet in 2013!
 
 
 The flowing cape was the   standout last year. While celebrities wore the trend on their gowns on the red carpet, it’s now time to incorporate the cape in traditional wear. Go for a shorter version — the capelet— preferably with embroidery on it, so that even if your sari is plain, the detailed blouse will elevate the entire outfit. Designer Swati Vijaivargie adds, “This season, we are pairing capes with more traditional garments. A sheer capelet blouse on the sari looks stunning . Plain capelets on embroidered saris or embroidered capelets on sheer saris are great options for summer.”
 
 
 You can team any funky blouse with a collar with your sari. Such blouses complement one-toned saris in silk or khadi and are a great option for women holding corporate positions. If you have a long neck, go for a Peter Pan, Chinese or Nehru collar. Designer Shruti Sancheti adds, “This style is a favourite with women and can be worn in multiple ways like a shirt, blouse or jacket. You can add epaulettes, roll up the sleeves, add a cute pocket on the sleeve or just use zippers for formal look.”
 
 Exaggerated or statement sleeves add drama to any regular outfit. If you want to do the same for your conventional sari, go for balloon sleeves. Just remember, the golden rule — the longer the sleeve, the gentler 
 the puff.
 
