PANCHKULA: Haryana police have detected a series of irregularities in the registration of the high-end Lexus fleet of   chief  , hinting at a duty evasion scam in their import. The luxe vehicles are priced Rs 1 crore upwards.

 Eight such Lexus Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) were part of Gurmeet’s convoy which entered Panchkula on August 25, the day of his conviction in a rape case. Three of the eight cars, which include a bullet-proof one, have now become case property.
 
 The dera chief was moving about in this fleet of vehicles much before the cars were marketed in India. Toyota’s luxury car brand only entered the Indian market on March 24, 2017, with three models - RX450h, ES300h, LX450d/LX570 - to be brought to India as completely build units (CBUs). The Union government charges 120% of the cars’ expense for importing car via CBU. 
 
  
  
 
  (
 
 
 Verification of the vehicles’ specifications have thrown up startling facts. Officials of the intelligence wing detected that not only did details of registration numbers of vehicles not match the records, the engine numbers of the seized SUVs also showed that vehicles were registered at five places, mostly in Haryana, that too under different names. 
 
 Suspecting a major racket in the sale purchase or procurement of luxury cars, Haryana police has set a Special Investigation team (SIT) in Sirsa.
 
 According to documents, some vehicles are registered in the name of the dera, others in the name of   -- a crisis management force of volunteers of dera -- and some in the name of companies related to the dera.
 
 The SIT in-charge of Panchkula has summoned dera chairperson   to quiz her about the cars. The SIT has also summoned the officials of the manufacturing company to provide clarity on the year of manufacturing and the customary history of the vehicles.
 
 Out of the 56 dera vehicles seized, 30 are SUVs like Toyota Fortuner, Innova and a Porsche. 
 
 “We are quite clear about the Lexus cars. These were either brought after paying heavy import duty or smuggled from Nepal. This hints at a major scam. The bullet-proofing of one such vehicle is also a serious concern,’’ a senior officer said.
 
 Haryana DGP B S Sandhu admitted they had found discrepencies during the verification of seized vehicles. “We will act according to the law as and when a serious lapse is found. Once the source of procurement is clear, we will also examine the agency that bullet-proofed the car,” said Sandhu.
 
 Sirsa police have got a list of the over 200 cars cavalcade that left Sirsa on August 25.
 
