Chennai: With masses of people swarming to pay homage to former chief minister   at her memorial, the city police have moved two bus stops 100 metres away from their original location near Ezhilagam in   toward  .

 A senior police officer said after Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, thousands of people visited Chennai to pay their respects to the departed soul. “Jayalalithaa’s memorial has turned into a new tourist attraction and people wait in queue every day to see the monument,” he said. “Many others come to the city from other parts of the state to pay their respects to Jayalalithaa.”
 
 Unfortunately for motorists and pedestrians who frequently pass the site, the crowds choked traffic, bringing vehicles to a complete standstill. The situation had traffic police officers pulling out their hair, especially near Ezhilagam — which also houses MGR’s memorial — on  , as the number of mourners appeared to grow with every passing day.
 
 “We didn’t know what to do,” the officer said. “So we looked at the problem with experts and NGOs. The study showed us that the two bus stops were choking traffic on the stretch. So we reached the conclusion that the best way to keep the vehicles moving was to shift the bus stops.”
 
 The Chennai city traffic police sent a proposal to MTC officials based on a study conducted by police and MTC experts. Senior MTC officials agreed to shift the two bus stops in front of Ezhilagam on Kamarajar Salai 100 metres north, outside the University of Madras.
 
 The two bus stops are used by more than 2,000 people who work for the many state government offices on the stretch and in the Ezhilagam complex as well.
 
 A senior MTC official said they had no option but to move the bus stops toward the University of Madras.
 
 “Though we have received many representations against the move from officials and associations affiliated to the central and state governments, we had to shift the bus stops,” he said. “We have asked many officials and office bearers of various associations to approach senior police officers and submit their representations on the issue.”
 
