Ever since, the Supreme Court has upheld the Delhi High Court’s decision of death sentence in the 2012   case, for all the four convicts, reactions started pouring in from all quarters. In the wake of this judgement, we ask students from Delhi who are studying here in Nagpur, and we draw a comparison between the two cities concerning women’s safety.
We recently reported that Bharosa Cell, a women grievance redressal unit of the city police has received 313 cases in the month of April for  . And this is becoming a bane for the police here. Dina Malhotra, who hails from Delhi, pursuing architecture in Nagpur throws a different light to the story, as she says, “Back home, issues pertaining to women safety and harassment are a hot button topic. And on numerous occasions, I have been eve-teased there. This was a major reason why I moved out of capital to pursue higher studies here. I’ve completed my last semester in 
 Architecture from Nagpur and thankfully, I have never faced any kind of eve-teasing here. And even though I have been out late in the night in Nagpur with my friends, I don’t feel unsafe. In Delhi, I can’t even imagine doing the same as my parents never allowed me to stay out beyond 6pm there.”
 Another student from Delhi Nikita Gangwani who has completed BE electronics from Nagpur says, “I was in Delhi in 2012 when Nirbhaya incident happened. All of us were in shock and outraged on the brutality involved in the case. I came to Nagpur in 2014 and since then, I have explored almost every nook and corner of the city, but I can’t recall even one incident wherein I or any of my friends have been a victim of any misbehaviour. Although some of my friends in the city have faced eve-teasing. Also one thing I like about the city is that a girl can easily approach cops which is not the case back in Delhi. Here I can feel free.”
 Studying in the university campus, Dhanashree Patrikar feels the matter of safety is subjective. She adds, “If I have to compare Delhi and Nagpur, there is no doubt that Nagpur is safer. The authorities here are very proactive. But having said that, miscreants can be anywhere. Today, girls themselves have to be vigilante and have to stay alert. I have been out late in the night here, but I never felt the need to ask any of my male friend to accompany me. The bottom line is, that we- the girls, should learn to be self-sufficient.”
 
 
 
 
 Besides Bharosa Cell, which provides assistance to women facing domestic issues, we have   that patrol at various sensitive areas and even lay trap for nabbing the eve teasers to ensure city girls stay safe. Currently, we have four Damini Squads, we shall increase the number, if need be. Also, the beat patrolling and beat policing will be made very intense in the coming days. People should remember that the best number to dial when in trouble is 100; and we reach the spot in less than seven minutes here, in some cases even three. We are planning to introduce a ‘constable friend’ concept at city girls’ hostels soon. Every woman hostel will have a contact number of a lady constable allotted to them, who will listen to residents’ problems and guide them like a friend or mentor. Dr K Venkatesh, Commissioner of Police 
 
 
