LUCKNOW: An 18-year-old student was run over by a tractor outside her college in   area, inciting other students to take to streets. They vandalised a tea-stall, damaged an auto and blocked the traffic for hours. 

 Police resorted to mild force to disburse agitating students which left six students with minor injuries. 
 
 The victim, identified as  , was a student of B Pharma (I) and a resident of Mohanlalganj. When she was taking a turn, on her scooty, near her college, a speeding brick-laden tractor trolley hit her from the opposite direction and ran over her. Students rushed Shilpa to a private hospital in college ambulance. However, seeing her condition, doctors referred her to the  . But Shilpa succumbed to her injuries on her way. 
 
 As the news of her death reached the college, students blocked the road. A police team led by Sarojininagar SHO Sudhakar Pandey reached the spot. The SHO allegedly held the students responsible for blowing a small incident out of proportion. Meanwhile, a constable allegedly started videographing the confrontation. This irked the students to such that they vandalised autos and other vehicles and blocked the road again. The SHO reportedly asked his men to beat up the students with lathis. Later, college administration had to step in.
 
 ASP (east) Shivram Yadav said the driver of the tractor-trolley, Sunil Kumar, had been arrested and his vehicle seized. "My field officers said no cane-charge took place, but we will probe the matter and take action," he said.
 
 The managing director of Shilpa's college, Aryakul group of colleges, Sashakt Singh, said, "We have been demanding a speed-breaker and that the illegal shops that have sprung up be removed but the administration has turned a blind eye." He also said six students had been injured 0in cane-charge.
 
 College professor Aditya Singh said Shipla was a bright student who was punctual who also helped other students.
 
 The students signed a memorandum before handing it over to police officials and SDM (Sarojininagar). They have sought Rs 20 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased, construction of a speed breaker, removal of encroachments and an explanation from police about cane-charging them.
 
