LUCKNOW: From May this year, around 9 lakh state employees and 6 lakh   and their family members will have access to   medical services at the best of hospitals across India. 
 
 Though no limit has been fixed to the cost of  , the facility would be available for emergency and critical ailment. This will be possible through the employees’ cashless treatment scheme rolled out by the state government here on Tuesday. 
 
 “The scheme has been approved by the state cabinet and enrolment of state employees has begun,” said  , chief executive officer, State Authority for Comprehensive Health  , which is coordinating the implementation of the scheme. Mitra added that enrolment for pensioners will begin in a week’s time. 
 
 Once the scheme is implemented, a beneficiary will only have to go to the listed centre and give a thumb impression on a biometric reader to avail the facility (the system is linked to Aadhaar card).
 
 SACHI has entered into several memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with 1,500 hospitals, including 800 private facilities, across India for the purpose. The list includes centres like CMC Vellore, PGI Chandigarh and AIIMS, New Delhi in the public sector and Tata Memorial Hospital, Medanta Medicity in Gurugram, Narayana Health hospitals in Bengaluru from the private hospitals. 
 
 “A host of health services have been covered in the two categories. Emergency services include cases of accident, angioplasty, valve replacement, etc, while critical ailments like joint replacement and organ transplant have been covered too,” said Mitra. 
 
 Officials at SACHI informed that enrolment will have to be done through their website. One needs to click the link for the scheme where details like name, employee identity number, department, address, etc are to be filled. Details of family members will have to be entered thereafter. 
 
 A system generated link containing a login identity and a password confirming registration would be sent to the applicant, while the details would be forwarded to the drawing and disbursing officer (in case of employees) and chief treasury officer (for pensioners) for verification. Once this is done, an insurance identity card would be emailed to the applicant. 
 
 “The system has fixed time for clearance of documents at the end of DDO/CTO. In case of delay, he would be promoted by SMS alerts and e-mails. The same system would send SMS to employees and pensioners to enrol themselves for the scheme,” informed Mitra. 
 
 A call centre (dial 1800-1800-4444) will take care of complaints in case any hospital fails to honour the commitment . 
 
 
