BHUBANESWAR: Curtains brought down of the 22nd   with a spectacular cultural show and magnificent fireworks at   here on Sunday. The stadium packed to its capacity witnessed one of the biggest congregations of athletes from 45 countries across Asia and a major big-ticket event hosted in the capital city ever. The jam-packed stadium gave a standing ovation to the Indian athletics team that topped the medal tally with maximum 29 medals in the championships. 

 "In the history of Asian Athletics Championships India did the best in Bhubaneswar. What could be more satisfying than this for all sports lovers of the country and especially for people of Bhubaneswar," said sports secretary  . 
 
  
  
 
 
 The colourful cultural programme began with performance of a dance show by 'symphony of friendship' by over 100 artists of the   at the sprawling stadium. The programme depicted friendly relationship among all Asian countries. The artists were in the costumes of various countries of Asia created a breath-taking and wonderful scene. Artists holding flags of all participating countries and with a variety of props created an awesome atmosphere of love and friendship on the ground. 
 
 
  
 
 The over five minutes long fireworks wowed the audience as it dazzled the stadium with bright and colourful lights. Short films capturing the best moments of the last five days left an lasting mark in the memory of the participants as well as the athletes. 
 
 
  
 
 "It would be one of the most memorable moments of my life. I have never seen such a spectacular and wonderful event. It's beautiful sync of music, dance and lights and closing of an grand occasion could not be better than this," said  , a spectator. The animal dance was the major attraction. 
 
 People encouraged all athletes and officials participated in the meet during the contingent march who waved to the audience who cheered them in return. "The people here are very hospitable and nice. They cheered all players irrespective of their nationality, which is a great thing," said  , an athlete from Thailand. 
 
 
  
 
 
 The events have been preponed by an hour to accommodate the cultural show and the events began at 5.10 pm instead of 6 pm. 
 
 State sports director   said the department has made special arrangement for the family members of all five Odia athletes participating in the event to make sure that the family members could witness them in action. "Subasini Rayguru, mother of Odia sprinter   and  , elder sister of   have been invited for the medal presentation ceremony," said Krishna.
 
