AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay   on Monday   to watch Akshay Kumar starrer ‘Jolly LLB 2’ to find out whether the image of the judiciary and lawyers has been belittled in the  .

 Lawyers R N Dhorde and V J Dixit would view the movie on Wednesday and submit their report on Friday to the high court, when the petition would come up for hearing.
 
 The bench, comprising justices V M Kanade and Sangitrao Patil, asked the producers to arrange for the screening of the movie, which is scheduled to be released on February 10. 
 
 Ajaykumar Waghmare, a lawyer from Nanded, approached the high court challenging the screening of the movie, seeking removal of the word LLB from the title and dropping of the scenes shown during the promos that depict lawyers playing cards on court premises and a judge hiding under the dais to evade objects being hurled in the court room.
 
 The petitioner, who approached the high court through lawyers V D Salunke and Pandirao Anerao, pointed out that from whatever is “shown in the trailers of the movie released on electronic and social media and television channels is nothing but an attempt to portray the Indian legal profession and judicial system as a laughing stock to the society at large.”
 
 “Whatever is shown on trailers, it is established that action and words used by the characters in the movie are defamatory in nature and having all ingredients to tarnish the reputation, dignity and status of the Indian legal profession and judiciary,” the petition states. 
 
 The petition has nine respondents, including the Union and state governments,   (CBFC), Fox Star Studio India, writer and director Subhash Kapoor, Rajiv Hari Om Bhatiya alias Akshay Kumar and Anil Kapoor alias Annu Kapoor. 
 
 The petition argued that the “freedom of speech and expression is subject to reasonable restrictions in relation to contempt of court as provided in Article 19 (2) the Constitution of India. The trailers of the movie are nothing but an attempt to project the Indian judiciary and legal profession in a derogatory manner, which fall under the definition of the Criminal Contempt under section 2 (C) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.”
 
 Senior counsel P M Shah represented Fox Star Studio India, which appeared suo motu following reports regarding the petition. The high court has also treated the writ petition as a public interest litigation. The court allowed the petitioner to amend the petition, which was filed on January 19 while the CBFC issued certificate to the movie on January 24, said Anerao.
 
