MUMBAI:   has had to pay a heavy price for its zeal to keep pace with big-ticket suburbs—it lost its pastoral innocence to urbanization and commercialization and got little in the bargain. Known as Kandivli’s country cousin, Charkop nevertheless attempts, often successfully, to chart out its own course—more so during elections.

 Known to have provided shelter to migrant labourers for years, Charkop flaunts its united colours—Maharashtrians, north Indians, Gujaratis, Muslims and South Indians—with trepidation in view of the fragile living condition it offers to its residents. “Charkop is mini-India. Here, all communities coexist peacefully, and suffer stocially,” says local Dayashankar Tiwari.
 
 Industrial units began to generate employment in the 1970s as cheap labour was available in abundance, says MNS vibhag pramukh Dinesh Salvi, and slum colonies, such as Ganesh Nagar and  , became home to modest karkhaanas, welding units, and metal and scrap shops. Workers built homes on the nearby marshy land and open fields with no adequate planning or policies, he adds. Even today, civic amenities in Charkop are few and far between.
 
 Scant water supply is a chronic problem in Mhada colonies and in Sectors I and II. The drainage system is in ailing and there almost no public health network, claims Salvi. The civic Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli (W) lacks basic facilities; the CT scan machine has been sent off to the Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Centre in Andheri, while the dialysis unit is run by a private charitable trust that caters only to members of its own community. Of the 53 victims of the 2015 Malawani hooch tragedy who were rushed to Dr Ambedkar hospital, nearly 50 died due to lack of equipment and medicines, alleges Salvi.
 
 Locals have also been long complaining about the pay-and-use toilet blocks in the precincts of Bajaj Road municipal school. “Residents keep flocking to the toilet with impunity even as schoolchildren play in the compound,” says  , a retired government employee. The toilet blocks have not been pulled down even after instructions from the ed-ucation department, he adds.
 
 Another grouse is encroachment by hawkers who thrive with elan on Mathuradas Road, Wadilal Gosalia Road, Jagdish Shetty Marg, Laljipada, Kadhsiddheshwar Marg and outside Kandivli railway station. “During evenings, even a scooter can’t move ahead an inch on a 90ft wide road because of the hawkers,” complains Parmanand Shetty, a technician.
 
 The Sena is all set to pull the rug from under the BJP’s feet, should the seat-sharing negotiations fail. “Of the six civic wards in Charkop, we offered five to the BJP of which they won only two. If Uddhav Thackeray asks us to go solo, we will contest all seats and win hands down,” claims Santosh Rane of the Sena.
 
 The BJP hopes to earn sizeable votes in the newly-delimited ward numbers 21 and 30. Senior BJP functionary   says, “Charkop backed our party wholeheartedly in the 2014 state assembly election. Yogesh Sagar, who won the Charkop seat, polled 97,000 votes against Sena’s 33,000 votes. The BJP was leading in all six wards. Which is why we say that the Sena should base its poll calculations on the 2014 results.” 
 
 The Congress, which had bagged two wards in the 2012 elections, is keen not only on retaining its earlier tally, but also bagging one more seat. The party is also banking on its north Indian vote bank in Charkop.
 
 
