MUMBAI: As part of its revamp exercise for the Class IX curriculum, from the coming academic year, the   board will no longer allow students to opt for   Mathematics —the preferred option of students with learning disabilities or those who have no aptitude for or interest in Maths. It has also extended the duration of class periods to 35 minutes from 30. 

 Maharashtra   and Higher Secondary Education, which will soon begin the next academic year, has announced several changes in its Class IX curriculum to align it with the National Curriculum Framework.
 
 In 2008, the state had introduced General Mathematics, a lower difficulty level Mathematics. However, students who opted for the subject could not take up a career in either engineering or architecture or pursue polytechnic courses. Last year, the department developed an online link to call for suggestions from teachers, parents and students on the issue. More than 90% of the respondents said there should be a single subject. “All students will have to study Algebra and Geometry,” stated a circular issued by the board.
 
 School principals, though, said the   should have let the option be. “The board must aim to become more student-friendly. The option has helped students deal with the fear that comes with Mathematics. The announcement has also come at a time when schools have already planned the next academic year,” said a principal.
 
 On the other hand, schools across the world have flexible curricula and allow students to pick subjects of their choice.
 
 Class IX students will also not be able to study Information and Communication Technology (ICT) as a separate subject. “The ICT curriculum was very basic but we found that students knew much more than that already, so we will incorporate it in all subjects in some way,” stated the circular. 
 
 Students will also not get to study Economics as a separate section but as part of Geography and Mathematics.
 
 To give teachers more time to teach languages, which will now be more activity-based, the board has extended the duration of a period. Teachers have welcomed the change but would have preferred more time. “Teachers might find it slightly difficult to adjust to the schedule but it will give some much-needed extra time in the classroom. However, a 45-minute period would be more productive for activities,” said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri. 
 
