PATNA: The installation of speed governors in four-wheelers will begin by the end of February, following the missive by   to file response with regard to the same.

 A bench of the apex court, comprising Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice D Y Chandrachud on Monday asked the transport secretaries in the Delhi and Bihar governments to appear in person with relevant records on the next date of hearing of the PIL. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by   on the issue of installation of speed governors in public transport vehicles.
 
 The Supreme Court bench said the states, which have been served with the notice, were not filing their responses on the matter.
 
 Senior officials in the transport department, however, claimed that an affidavit in this regard was filed in June last year and another would be filed within a few days. Besides, the bidding process has started for empanelment of firms which would install speed governors in the vehicles in the state.
 
 “We issued the first notification for installation of speed governors in Bihar on April 22 last year and a revised one on January 9 this year. The ministry of road, transport and highways recently extended the deadline for commencement of installation of speed governors in old vehicles by January 31. Accordingly, firm (s) for installation of speed governors in old vehicles in the state will be selected by the end of this month and the corresponding installation work is likely to begin from February-end,” said a transport department official.
 
 Speed governors are devices to limit the top speed of a vehicle. The Supreme Court in 2002 had issued a guideline for their installation in all commercial vehicles. State governments of Kerala, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have also issued notifications for making speed governors mandatory for all commercial vehicles.
 
 Manufacturers or operators are required to install speed governors on all new commercial vehicles delivered in Bihar, while the state governments are required to select agencies for installation of the same for old vehicles.
 
 As per the notification issued by the state transport department in April last year, the speed governors to be installed in school buses will restrict their speed to 40 kmph and 60 kmph for dumpers and other vehicles carrying hazardous goods. The speed limiting devices in other commercial vehicles, including trucks, tractors and buses, will fix their maximum speed at 80 kmph.
 
 
