KOLKATA: Service charge or no service charge? If you were planning to go to a new restaurant and were wondering whether you’d be forced to   that you might not have even liked, worry no more. Kolkata restaurants will soon have to put up display boards prominently, informing customers whether they levy this charge.

 On Monday, the department of consumer affairs said billing service charges in addition to taxes was optional, and that customers could decide whether they wanted to pay that component. Soon, even if you walk into a restaurant that levies service charge, you may, at the end of your meal, decide not to pay it.
 
 The decision, as expected, has made foodies happy. “This tax was unfair; it inflated the bill,” said  , a regular at  . “I am happy it’s gone now,” he added. “This was a much-needed move,” echoed his friend Sanjoy Baidya. “Eating out will be more affordable now.”
 
 Several restaurants in Kolkata levy service charge, but only a few declare it to customers beforehand. Around 20% of hotels in the state levy service charge, according to the   (HRAEI). A 14.6% VAT and 6% service tax component are compulsory on every bill. The service charge, a steep 10%, comes on top of this. The longstanding complaint was, many customers tipped even after paying the service charge. Also, the compulsory nature of this charge meant that customers were essentially forced to pay extra for service that they had not even enjoyed. It was unfair to impose this burden on unsuspecting customers who often tip for the service, said  , president of HRAEI. “Even though we have asked all our members to display a notice if they are charging it, I believe it is unfair. It should be entirely the customers’ decision. In case one is happy with the food and service, he or she will tip,” Poddar added.
 
 Poddar added the new rule will impact hotels more than restaurants, since a greater number of them levied service charge on room rent. “Instead of the food, they tag it with room rent. Either way, it is unfair,” said Poddar.
 
 Most restaurants agreed. “The service charge should, at least, be declared. This makes the new rule a good one. Ideally, it should be left to the customers, just as we do,” said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis restaurant on Park Street.
 
