Like most couples, their relationship too, hit a rough patch recently. However, unlike most lovers’ tiffs that go unreported, theirs hit the headlines.   was in the news for her alleged break-up with actor-beau  . A day later, though Shakti announced on social media that all’s well between them, the temporary split did raise a few eyebrows.

 But there’s no trouble in their paradise now, asserts Neha. Talking to BT, the actress sets the record straight, “I couldn’t stay beyond a month in Jakarta with Shakti (he has professional commitments there) because of visa restrictions. I guess that’s what led to the speculation that I had left abruptly following a nasty tiff. Every couple fights; we fight, too, but we haven’t split. I was upset when people started judging us as a couple, and that’s what prompted Shakti to take to the social media.”
 
 What about the rumours that they are secretly married? Countering the buzz, the actress says, “We had a roka a few years ago, that’s all. We have always been open about our relationship, and the world will know when we tie the knot. Funnily, one of us bags a show every time we decide to get married. We were planning to tie the knot in December this year, but I am back on the acting scene now. The hitch is, we don’t want to get married when either of us is working. We want to spend some quality time together after the wedding. Guess the very thought of marriage is lucky for us since it results in more work (laughs).”
 
 On the professional front, Neha is returning to fiction with ' ', four years after her last show ' ' ended. The actress, who shook a leg with Shakti on ' ' two years ago, will be seen as a background dancer in her next outing. 
 
 “It is tough to get good roles. I gave many auditions and was even shortlisted a few times, but unfortunately, nothing materialised. Maybe luck was not on my side,” she says, adding, “I can never be on a break because I like to work. It’s just that whatever was being offered to me was regressive, which I didn’t want to take up.”
 
