CHENNAI: Making last-ditch ef forts to convince the Centre to exempt   from the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET), at least for two years, the state is considering several options, including the promulgation of an ordinance,   said. “We discussed the idea for an ordinance in New Delhi. The ordinance will exempt state-run medical colleges from   for at least two years,“ he said.

 The minister, who returned from New Delhi on Tuesday after meeting Prime Minister   and Union ministers, said the state tried to push for the Act passed by the TN assembly , but the Centre had yet to respond favourably . “The priority is the get the President's nod. We are hoping to arrive at a decision in two days,“ he said. “We have given the Centre details to queries it sent.“
 
 Unlike the Act, an ordinance will require a prior consent from the Union home ministry . After the nod, the ordinance can be promulgated and sent for the governor's signature.
 
 Legal experts say the state government is now left with three options if it wants to avoid NEET: presidential assent for its bill, ordinance and 85% reservation for state board students. But given the circumstances, a presidential nod for the two laws enacted earlier this year is near impossible.
 
 On January 31, the assembly passed an Act to exclude Tamil Nadu from NEET. Since then, the state has been waiting for the President's assent without which the law cannot be enforced. The Centre has sent at least two sets of questions to the health department, but has not conveyed its final decision even after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami met Modi twice.
 
 A team of five state ministers visited Union ministers and senior officials in the health, HRD, law and home ministries twice in the past 10 days to obtain the President's nod. Senior health department officials, including health secretary J Radhakrishnan, had been camping in New Delhi. But officials in the Centre said the file was with home minister  .
 
 “No decision has been taken.The delay is because we believe there may be huge legal and political ramifications,“ a senior official said.
 
 But during discussions with Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, legal experts suggested that the state should take the ordinance route as medical education is a concurrent subject. Prasad said the Centre may consider a temporary exemption from NEET for TN.
 
 “For nearly 10 years, we have not had any competitive exams, unlike any other state,“ Vijaya Baskar said.“If we have to change, we will need to give our teachers and students a little time to adapt.“
 
