KOCHI: The real estate sector seems to have adopted a wait and watch policy and have little hopes from the second budget to be presented by finance minister  . Most of the realtors are of the view that it will be `routine affair,' as the good and services tax (GST) would soon be adopted.

 However, members of the kochi unit of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) have stated their demands.“Our main expectation is a reduction in stamp duty,“ said J Paul Raj, president, CREDAI.
 
 Developers said the increased stamp duty and registration charges have substantially brought down property transactions. “If the stamp duty is kept at three percent it would help increase the number of transactions and more people would be willing to disclose the exact property value.When transactions become more transparent it will help those in this business,“ said a CREDAI member.
 
 The builders are of the view that if the state government intended to fall in line with the Centre's policy of promoting affordable housing, various charges imposed by the state should be brought down. “It is important to review the state VAT, electricity, water and other mandatory charges imposed by the state,“ said CREDAI executive com mittee member V Sunil Kumar.He said that Kerala is the state which has imposed the highest additional floor-area-ratio (FAR). The absence of self-assessment for one-time review tax has led to various disputes.“All this have to change,“ he added. He said that the state was also bound to ensure supply of raw materials like sand for the construction industry.“Scarcity of water is another major concern for both builders and buyers. Steps should be taken to address such public concerns,“ Sunil Kumar said.
 
 Realtors also said government should also bring in downward correction in floor price or base price. Citing the issues in joint venture development, realtors said the government should streamline stamp duty imposed on such transactions.
 
