Coimbatore: What started as a measure to reduce the time of waiting at traffic signals has become a hassle for motorists in the city. 

 Around 4.30pm on Saturday, a couple of bikers almost skid to the stop line at the Peelamedu traffic signal when the traffic policeman on duty decided to turn the light to red from green suddenly using the newly-installed manually-operated system. The system was installed at some traffic signals in the city recently. 
 
 Usually, a traffic light goes red only after it flashes amber for three to five seconds, depending on the density of vehicles. In this case, the traffic policeman on duty decided to switch the signal to red without first switching it to amber. Such mistakes have been spotted by TOI at few other signals where the manually operated system has been installed. 
 
 At Lakshmi Mills signal, the traffic police made the motorists on Papanaickenpalayam Road wait for more than 250 seconds (the usual waiting time is 155 seconds). This had raged the motorists, especially two-wheeler riders who were waiting under the sun. The vehicles from Papanaickenpalayam Road get a green light once the signal turns red for vehicles from Puliyakulam Road. Instead of turning the light green for Papaniackenpalayam Road, the policeman turned the light green for vehicles coming from Peelamedu. This confusion led to vehicles from Papanacikenpalayam Road start from the stop line and stop mid-way at the junction.
 
 Motorists who travel on Avinashi Road frequently have felt that they are spending more time at signals in the past 10 days. “I drive on Avinashi Road frequently to meet clients. I have felt that I am spending nearly 3 minutes at signals like Anna Statue, Lakshmi Mills and Peelamedu,” said S Surya Prakash, a marketing professional. 
 
 “It becomes worse between 11am and 4pm, when heavy vehicles are allowed on city roads. It’s hot during that time, and halting at signals for long time under the sun leaves me irritated,” he said. 
 
 The traffic police acknowledged the glitches in the newly installed signal control boards and plans to fix them in the next few days. “I have received positive feedback from the traffic police, but I have to meet public also to get their comments. In general, we have been informed about the lack of amber light on traffic lights and setting time,” said the deputy commissioner of traffic, M Durai. 
 
 “We have made note of these issues and are in the process of fixing them. We will analyze the traffic volume at each signal and fix the time for signals,” he said. “Meanwhile, we are also working on setting up the control boards at other signals. A local company is manufacturing it,” said Durai. 
 
 
