PATNA: The new session of   is likely to get delayed as the results of the entrance   are not declared yet. The   was held on June 20 and the result was to be announced on June 28.   blamed the principal for the delay. 

 “The principal did not bother to come to the office for more than one year. He gives directions from his residence. We discussed this matter with the university officials, but to no avail. No development work has been taken up in the college for years. It’s like we are going backward,” one official said.
 
 Patna University (PU) registrar Rabindra Kumar also blamed the college for the delay in results. “The university has asked the principal several times to submit the list of selected candidates, but he is yet to submit it,” he said.
 
 College principal Chandra Bhooshan Shrivastava, however, said a committee was set up to complete the admission process. “The teachers were asked to make the cutoff list in separate categories — OBC, SC, ST and general. The list will be forwarded to PU before putting it on the college notice board and website. The results were supposed to be declared on June 28, but the college was closed due to festivals,” he said and assured that the results would be out by this weekend.
 
 Rohit Singh, an applicant for   said, “I came to the college thrice to inquire about the result and the college administration kept on saying it will be announced in the next two days. I am still waiting for those two days to come. The session was to begin in July first week.”
 
 Around 240 students applied for bachelor of fine arts and 138 appeared for the entrance exams for 60 seats. Students who were not able to appear for the exam claimed that the admit cards were issued only a day before the exam. 
 
 PU pro-vice chancellor Prof Dolly Sinha said, “PU released the admit card a day before the entrance exam for all the courses, not only for a particular college. I don’t think there was any problem as most of the students who applied for admissions are from Bihar. Even some students who called up to know about the admit card were informed that it will be released on June 19.”
 
