Pune:   migrants, who have been staying in   in various parts of the state for decades, can now hope for better settlements. The state government last week reviewed the plan for redevelopment of these colonies and the revamping project would initially start in Mumbai.

 The migrants have been given occupancy rights of these settlements, which are on government land. The state government has been looking after maintenance of these colonies since 1971. However, the ownership of the land continues to be with the Central government. The state government has identified 31 refugee camps, including the one at Pimpri, for redevelopment. 
 
 The government said there were nearly 30 lakh Sindhi migrants who had fled Pakistan post-Partition to settle in various camps across the country.
 
 These migrants have been staying in the refugee camps for the last 70 years. Pune district revenue department officials said the initial proposal was to redevelop the settlements in Mulund, Sion Koliwada, Kurla and Chembur, which are all in Mumbai and spread over 280 acres, followed by the one in  .
 
 Rajendra Muthe, resident deputy collector, Pune, said residents will have to partly pay for the redevelopment as per the ready reckoner rate. “It is either 25% or 12.5% of the ready reckoner rate depending on the area.”
 
 The state, which has been overseeing the maintenance of these settlements since 1971, has started giving ownership rights of units to families, but sources said this benefit has not been extended to all families.
 
 Revenue department officials said nearly 50,000 people live in Pimpri Camp and run shops in the area and have their second or third generation family members living in these houses, which definitely need redevelopment.
 
 Former corporator of the area Harish Bodhani said it was a welcome move as the old structures badly needed redevelopment. “The proposal to grant ownership rights to the refugees had come up last year, but it was not taken forward. Hopefully, the redevelopment proposal will be taken forward,’’ Bodhani further said.
 
 Dhanraj Ochani, who has been staying in Pimpri Camp since 1952, feels that while the thought of redevelopment was a welcome one, the charges to be borne by the residents was too much. “There were several directives from the government, which had mentioned about ownership, but have not been implemented. So even if we give land for redevelopment, with no ownership rights, just redevelopment is not enough,’’said Ochani.
 
 
