LUCKNOW: Actor Aamir Khan’s   has hit the right cord in UP's   district. The film has done what presence of Vindhyavasini (an avatar of Durga) couldn’t to boost morale of girls and made them stand for their rights. 

 Around 150 teen-aged girls were taken out for a movie show by district administration and   on Monday. “Gita and Babita could win medals because their father gave them the opportunity,” said Pratibha from Imarati village of Pahadi block. “Their lives changed after their father gave up his obsession for male child and now I will ask elders in my village to stop all discrimination against the girl child,” added Neerja of Vindhyachal village in Chhanbe block.
 
 At least 60% of these girls had stepped out of their homes for the first time to watch a movie in   in Mirzapur. As expected, they felt a mix of excitement of going out to watch first movie, a day out with friends, a sense of freedom and the fun of watching   and their ‘haanikarak bapu’ on screen. 
 
 But their takeaways from the film exemplified what 70mm screen does to an ordinary Indian. Surekha from Kamapur village is a case in point. “Film ne mere andar ek junoon bhar diya hai...ab main apna sapna poora karne ki koshish zaroor karoongi ( (I feel inspired by the film...I will try my best to fulfil my dream,” remarked the 16-year-old, who wants to climb Mt Everest like Arunima Sinha. Surekha has read how Arunima gathered strength, despite losing her leg in a rail accident, first to walk and then to become a mountaineer. 
 
 Rinki Maurya of Madihan block went back with the lesson of ignoring all those who taunted and hooted her when she walked briskly in the morning. “Main unke kahe se apna kaam nahi tajungi (I will not quit my walk because of what they say),” said Rinki, who wants to join state police for which physical fitness and walking several kilometres in few minutes is a must. 
 
 District programme communication consultant, Bhanu Priya said the effort aimed at eliminating gender discrimination. “Bias against women isn’t an outcome of patriarchal mindset alone, the problem has roots in the mind of women too. Thus, while men have to be sensitised, efforts to make girls and women realise their rights are needed too,” she said. 
 
 Vindhyachal division commissioner Ranjan Kumar also addressed the girls after the film. “If you compare your life with the life of Gita and Babita, you will find many similarities. The girls became winners only when they realised they can beat the mindset that keeps girls away in the first place,” he told the group. 
 
 Talking to reporters, Kumar said children are agents of change. “Some of these will be able to change their parents too. I have promised all help from our side to help them fulfil their dreams,” he claimed.
 
 
