He is not just the cute guy with dimples anymore. After spending eight years in the industry,   is happy about finally being appreciated for the right reason — his acting chops. He says, “Initially, the attention was only on my dimples and looks. I started getting compliments for my acting skills after six years in the industry. Of course, I still get appreciated for my looks, but I don’t mind it as I get great feedback for my acting, too. So, I am in a happy space.”

 Interestingly, not many people know that Dheeraj aspired to become a model, and acting never crossed his mind. However, his dreams were shattered when he realised that he was not tall enough to walk the ramp. He recalls, “I had dreamt of becoming a model since my school days, but when I turned 18, I realised that I had to be at least six feet tall. I was obviously heartbroken. That’s when I decided to take a plunge into acting and bagged 'Maat Pitaah Ke Charnon Mein Swarg'.”
 
 The actor is currently seen in ' ', a spin-off of the Shabbir Ahluwalia-starrer ' '. Ask him if he was apprehensive about being compared to Shabbir and he replies, “Though it’s a spin-off and the two shows have many aspects in common, 'Kundali Bhagya' has a different story and characters. I want to tell everyone that this is my show. When I joined ' ' as the new Prem, people compared me to the old one. However, I assured them that I will play the character in my style. So, I have never been apprehensive about comparisons.”
 
 The actor’s career has been unblemished and he has never been in the news for the wrong reasons. How does he manage to steer clear of controversies? He replies, “I focus on my work and keep my personal life away from the limelight. Somebody told me that jab life mein sab kuch sahi chal raha ho, tab don’t spoil it. I believe in it and work accordingly.”
 
 In November 2016, Dheeraj got married to  , his sweetheart of seven years, who also featured in his debut show opposite him. Since TV actors have erratic schedules and long work hours, does he miss spending quality time with his wife? “The schedule is definitely hectic, but we make time for each other. We call each other when we are not together and Vinny also visits my set sometimes. I feel incomplete when she is not around. Whatever I am today, is because of her. I am lucky because ever since I met her, the tide has turned in my favour. She understands me and my temper. The best part is that she helps me live my dreams,” he answers.
 
