MANGALURU: Home minister and   said he will abide by the party high command's decision with regard to  .

 He said the party high command will take a decision on the issue of appointing a new chief to KPCC. “I'm still active as KPCC president. It is left to the high command to take a decision. There are many leaders who are eligible for the post. Hence, obviously there will be many contenders. However, a final decision will be taken by the high command,” Parameshwara told reporters.
 
 To a question, he said that he never felt having three major responsibilities a difficult job. “I would have given up these positions, If I had had felt accepting multiple responsibilities was a tough task. However, I feel that I'm capable of taking up more responsibilities. Hence, I have been continuing with all the major responsibilities,” he added.
 
 Parameshwara said that KPCC has prepared a roadmap to strengthen and prepare the party for the next assembly election to be held in 2018. “Membership drives and organizational elections are being conducted. The membership drive will end on May 15. After all the organizational elections are over, sometime in October, an AICC session will be held, hopefully in Bengaluru. 
 
 On the ongoing rift between in the state BJP Parameshwara said: “It is their internal matter and we are not bothered. We will focus on the achievements of the government and seek votes on the basis of it.   and JD(S) are willing to join Congress, but I cannot disclose their names now.”
 
 On selection of candidates for the assembly elections, the KPCC chief said a final decision will be taken by the high command.
 
 “The KPCC will be less burdened if the high command decides to give party tickets for all the 124 incumbent MLAs. We will have to select candidates for the remaining seats. We will start the process of identifying candidates and the list will be sent to the election committee of KPCC. Later, the list will be sent to the AICC for final approval,” he said, adding that the process has already been started. 
 
 
