MADURAI: A 33-year-old man travelling on bike was run over by a water tanker, killing him instantly in Madurai city on Tuesday. Based on a complaint a case was registered and an investigation was carried out. The incident took place on Koodalnagar Bridge. This was the third accident this year, involving a water tanker and the fourth in the last one year.

 The victim was identified as M Pandi, 33, from Villapuram in Madurai city. The accident took place at 9am when the victim, a private company employee, was on his way to work. A water tanker travelling in the same direction hit the two-wheeler. Severely injured,   died on the same spot. Based on information, a police team rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Government Rajaji Hospital for post mortem. The driver of the vehicle identified as Sasikumar, escaped from the spot.
 
 Meanwhile, a case was registered with traffic investigation wing,   and the driver was later arrested under the section IPC – 304 (a) - causing death by negligence.
 
 Residents opine that due to increase in demand for water, a large number of tankers are plying in the city. Often, drivers are seen driving rashly and take up over speeding to increase the number of trips, to earn more money.
 
 K Nallamani, a resident of   said “Many water tankers are driven by teenagers. It is quite obvious they would not have acquired a license. Owners too, encourage it as they pay lesser amount. The police should crack the whip on such trucks,” he said.
 
 In an accident which took place two weeks ago, involving a water tanker, a Class II girl studying in Tirupparankundram Primary School was killed. Pavithra, the victim was killed on the spot at her school campus. A tanker truck hit the compound wall of the school, resulting in the death of the girl who was having lunch near the wall. 
 
 In another incident that took place on May 20, 22-year-old Jayanthi was killed after a water tanker hit her cycle. Murugan, 35, a resident of Kalavasal was killed when a water tanker hit him while he was driving his two-wheeler, last year. 
 
