BENGALURU: It took over a decade for Bengaluru to get its ring road, with   not far behind in terms of delays and   to open their own  .

 Now, ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, the government's ambitious plan to have a ring road for every district headquarters will take not less than another decade to fructify. While the intentions may be "futuristic", according to   (UDD) officials, sceptics believe there may not be much of a scientific study conducted into the concept of constructing a ring road.
 
 UDD secretary Anjum Parvez said the government is hoping to plan the alignment and conduct a total survey for land acquisition and construction of the roads in the next five years, only after that the government and local planning authorities can consider the construction of ring roads. "Construction of ring roads is no easy task, considering the hurdles in land acquisition. The five-year duration is being considered for estimation of land requirement and alignment of the ring roads in these cities," said Parvez.
 
 However, apart from estimation for land acquisition and alignment, a source in the UDD claims that till date, there has been no technical report on whether there is actually a demand for a ring road in any of these 25 cities. Transport experts believe that a technical report and passenger car unit (PCU) study are mandatory for the government to consider whether a ring road is necessary or not.
 
 As per the Indian Road Congress (IRC) estimation, there is an average annual increase of 7% in traffic on national highways across the country. With this as the base figure, PCU studies need to be carried out for cities with much smaller populations -- between 17 lakh (Shivamogga) and 2 lakh (Bidar).
 
 "Further, the need for a ring road needs to be incorporated in the masterplan of these cities before the government takes a call on building them," said IISc associate professor (civil engg dept) Ashish Verma. According to him, government bodies should also manage the land-use policy before embarking on such major projects. Parvez said while some CDPs of cities have made provision for a ring road, provision will also be made in the remaining CDPs. The government has justified the decision to construct ring roads on the basis of giving access to newer areas for development.
 
