MUMBAI: A 45-year-old woman in the city has filed a case against her former live- in girlfriend, also 45, for uploading a nude picture of her on social media. 

 On Monday, a sessions court rejected an anticipatory bail plea by the woman against whom the complaint has been filed. The couple were in a relationship for over a decade and work in the pathology department of a reputed private hospital in the western suburbs. 
 
 A senior police official of the Mumbai police said this was the first such case that the force has registered. 
 
 The FIR was registered with   police station, Mulund (E) on February 4 this year. Cops registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and under the Information Technology Act.
 
 The policeman probing the case said the women had worked together for a long period before becoming close friends. One of them was married and after her marriage ended, their bond grew stronger. The couple started living in Mulund.
 
 “Six months ago they started having trouble in their relationship,” said a police officer from Navghar police station. During this time, the complainant allegedly learnt that the accused was using her pictures and passing them off as her own on Facebook for over two years.
 
 The victim told the cops that on November 21 last year, she noticed that the accused had put up her nude picture as her Whatsapp display status. The victim said when she confronted the accused about it, she was allegedly told that the pictures were taken when she was in the bathroom the previous day. The victim further said that they got into a fight after which the accused threatened to malign her by circulating the pictures and left the house. The victim claimed that later she pleaded with the accused, but the latter refused to relent. This pushed the victim to finally file a police complaint on February 4.
 
 The accused told the court that she was innocent. Cops have opposed the anticipatory bail plea on the grounds that the mobile phone was yet to be recovered and since the two worked in the same place, there were chances that the accused could influence witnesses. “With her anticipatory bail being rejected we wanted to arrest her today itself (Monday), but as it is sundown we cannot arrest a woman. So now we will wait until Tuesday,” the officer said.
 
 
 
 
