NEW DELHI: Chief election commissioner   on Saturday ruled out a return to ballot paper system, stating that barring 3-4 parties, all participants in the May 12 all-party meeting had favoured continued use of EVMs along with 100% paper trail. Zaidi insisted that with VVPATs set to be deployed on full scale in all future polls, the controversy over reliability of the election process should be finally set to rest.

 Stating the   has full faith in the accuracy and tamper-proof nature of EVMs, Zaidi said the poll body was nevertheless holding the   challenge as it was committed to improving its processes relating to conduct of elections, if there was scope for the same. “In any case, once VVPATs are in use, the EVM issue will rest conclusively. Voter will be able to see for himself where his vote has gone,” he stated at a news conference to announce the schedule and framework of the upcoming EVM challenge.
 
 Zaidi said EC’s EVM technology and security features were far superior and tamper-resistant as compared to other countries that had discontinued the use of voting machines. Unlike foreign-made prototypes, EC EVM are standalone machines with no external connectivity and have a one-time programmable chip. This, he said, makes it hack-proof. Asked why VVPATs were being brought in when EC was so sure about EVMs being foolproof, Zaidi said EC must embrace new technology, as it had been since EVMs were first introduced.
 
 Steering clear of commenting on the EVM ‘hacking’ demonstrated by an AAP MLA in the Delhi assembly, the CEC maintained that the ECI EVM was “non-hackable and non-tamperable”. He once again dismissed allegations that the EVMs were tampered in Bhind and during local polls in Maharashtra, stating that investigations by a committee set up by it as well as the Maharashtra State Election Commission had found the charges to be false. 
 
 At the all-party meeting on May 12, only a handful of parties led by BSP had suggested going back to the ballot paper system. The majority, including AAP, supported continued use of EVMs with enhanced security features, coupled with VVPATs. 
 
 Responding to issues regarding EVMs raised over the past couple of months, EC in a detailed press note on Monday said manipulation of machines at manufacturing stage was ruled out given the stringent security protocol. It said the manufacturers cannot know several years ahead as to which candidate will be contesting from a particular constituency. Also results cannot be altered by activating a Trojan Horse through a sequence of key presses as the microchip is one-time programmable. Also, ECI EVM, said EC, cannot be physically tampered without anyone noticing, especially with third-generation EVMs currently in use as they came with tamper detection and self-diagnostics. 
 
 EC also clarified that it does not use EVMs produced abroad. Though the micro chip is manufactured abroad, the software is converted into machine code by Indian suppliers BEL and ECIL and only then given to the chip manufacturer. 
 
 
