JAIPUR:   in-charge Avinash Pande on Sunday said   from the state have assured him that they were in no race with each other for the chief minister’s post. Pande said Congress was currently the strongest in Rajasthan and will form the next government here in 2018.

 After a long time, state Congress’s top brass was present in nearly full strength for the executive committee held on Sunday.  , former chief ministers Ashok Gehlot and Jagannath Pahadia, AICC general secretaries C P Joshi and Mohan Prakash,  , former PCC chiefs Girija Vyas and BD Kalla and leader of opposition   were among those present.
 
 “Almost all leaders very well clarified that they do not have any personal agenda. The only agenda is Congress’s jhanda (flag), Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi’s leadership and defeat of BJP in the coming Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections,” Pande told reporters after the meeting.
 
 The new in-charge said, “Congress is such a large party there must be some difference of opinion (among party men). Some workers could like A, B or C leader but as far as the Congress programme and flag is concerned, we are all united and we will contest the coming elections unitedly.”
 
 Pande pointed out that Congress leaders from Rajasthan were shouldering party responsibilities in more than half the states of the country. “C P Joshi in Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Bihar, West Bengal, Mohan Prakash in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, Ashok Gehlot in Gujarat, Zuber Khan in Uttar Pradesh, and Harish Chaudhary in Punjab are guiding the party. We will make use of their experience in Rajasthan to win the next elections,” the AICC general secretary said.
 
 “Congress will 200% get majority and form the next government in Rajasthan,” Pande said, while declining to tell how many seats the party was expecting in 2018 assembly election. On being asked if he saw Aam Aadmi Party as a challenge in Rajasthan, he replied, “We have seen it in action in Delhi, so there is nothing much to comment on it.”
 
 After the meeting, the new in-charge and his four deputies continued to meet the Congress leaders and workers till late evening at the PCC headquarters. Pande and the deputies would visit Dargah Sharif in Ajmer, Brahma temple in Pushkar and Salasar Balaji in Churu district on Monday. “Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi has invited all Congress MLAs from the state for a meeting in Delhi on May 16,” PCC chief Sachin Pilot said.
 
