BENGALURU: The   shunted out Bengaluru City police commissioner   on Monday and posted him as the   (communications, logistics and modernization). T Suneel Kumar, a 1989batch IPS officer, is the next commissioner. Sood's exit, which comes within seven months of his appointment, has set tongues wagging in political and police circles.

 Sources attributed the transfer to political compulsions, springing from Sood's action against 
  . Sources in the CM's Office denied this speculation. “According to the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act 2013, an officer holding an executive posting should have a minimum tenure of one year. The officer cannot be transferred unless there is an administrative exigency or allegations,“ a bureaucrat said.
 
 Sood has not faced any allegations. He was due for a promotion in November. Sources said Sood may not take legal recourse against the transfer since he will be in service till 2024. “I did not ask why when I was appointed commissioner and I will not ask why when I am asked to leave,“ he said.
 
 Sood was appointed police commissioner on Dec 31, 2016, after his candidature was recommended by then home minister G Parameshwara. Siddaramaiah is learned to have backed Kumar even then, but the home minister prevailed.“With Parameshwara resigning as minister and the CM taking over the home portfolio, Kumar's appointment was imminent,“ a source said.
 
 In recent weeks, Praveen Sood drew the ire of Kannada activists as he had arrested those spearheading the campaign against imposition of Hindi on Bengaluru Metro. With the CM tak ing a pro-Kan nada stand, Sood's continuance might have been seen as sending the wrong message.
 
  
  has served non-controversial stints as deputy commissioner of police (south), home secretary-II and additional commissioner of police (Bengaluru, crime).He is a recipient of the President's Medal for distinguished service and has headed the internal security division before being posted as managing director of Karnataka State police Housing Corporation.
 
 Besides, Kumar belongs to a scheduled caste.With his appointment, Siddaramaiah can hope for further boost his Ahinda (a Kannada acronym for Dalit, Muslims and backward classes) credentials.
 
