PANAJI: A day after several senior political leaders called for extra security at the strong rooms where the EVMs are stored, the state administration reassured all political parties that the three-tier security cover would ensure that no mischief took place with the voting missions.

 “Candidates and political parties are welcome to stay outside the outer most perimeter and keep a watch on the security arrangements of the strong room. For their convenience,” an   official said. 
 
 “The polled EVMs and VVPATS of all 19 assembly constituencies of North Goa district are currently stored in the strong rooms of Bal Bhavan, Panaji,” North Goa collector Nila Mohanan said.
 
  “In strict compliance with the instructions of the  , all necessary measures to ensure the guarding and security of the Strong Rooms have been taken” 
 
  president and   candidate Luizinho Faleiro said that the Election Commission had to be vigilant. Faleiro had suggested that each party should have representatives posted outside the strong rooms. This sentiment was echoed by MGP president Deepak Dhavalikar who said that he has doubts about the security deployed to guard the EVMs in Margao and Panjim.
 
 The three tier guarding system is in place with the first tier inner most perimeter guarded by one company of CISF round the clock. One CISF guard each is posted outside each of the strong rooms inside Bal Bhavan.
 
 The second tier which is the middle perimeter of the building is guarded by one platoon of IRB. The third tier which is the outer most perimeter is guarded by personnel of Goa Police including one PI, one PSI and 6 constables 24x7, the south Goa collector Swapnil Naik said.
 
 The administration also assured all the political parties that CCTVs had been installed outside every strong room and corridors and that the footage was are available on screens installed near the gate of outer most perimeter of the Control Room which is manned by Executive Magistrate 24x7.
 
 “Candidates and political parties are welcome to stay outside the outer most perimeter and keep a close watch on the security arrangements of the strong room. For their convenience,” an official of the election commission said.
 
