Trichy: Boominathan's dream to see his son getting married will never be realised. On Thursday, he was told by military officials that his son was no more. A visibly upset Boominathan said the last time his son came home, he had constructed an in-house toilet for them. “He was very keen on building a new house and he would eagerly discuss plans with me over phone. But none of this will ever come to be,” he said.

 Boominathan and his wife Amutha, both agricultural labourers from Kannathankudi Keezhaiyur near Orathanadu taluk in Thanjavur district, were making plans to get their son B Ilavarasan, 27, married. Now their plans have come to a grinding halt.
 
 The second son of the family, Ilavarasan had joined as a   with 51 Rashtriya Rifles in 2012, after completing BA Economics. He had been posted along the Indian border at Ladakh in Jammu and Kashmir. His elder sister B Sutha is married while his younger brother B Vinothkumar had completed ITI course and is looking for a job.
 
 “At 9pm on Thursday, I received a call from an officer at the Gurez military base in Kashmir Valley, informing me that my son had died in an   in Kashmir while he was on duty. Due to dense fog he was unable to travel home, even though his leave had been sanctioned,” said Boominathan.
 
 He has appealed to the district administration to do the needful to bring the mortal remains of his son home at the earliest.
 
 Ilavarasan had contacted R Jayakumar, his sister Sutha’s husband, who works in a tea shop, over phone last week that even though he had been sanctioned 35 days of leave, he was unable to return home because he had to cover for his colleague who was unwell. “He should have been home for Pongal itself. However, as the situation in the valley was out of control, he called me and expressed his inability to return home,” said Jayakumar
 
 Presently, more than 100 youths from this village have opted to join the military. They are working in various regiments across the country. The village also hosts more than 200 ex-service men. According to the villagers, this is the first time the village has lost a soldier on duty.
 
 
