Gurgaon: Two property dealers were killed and another suffered injuries after being shot allegedly by a business rival and his accomplices at the latter’s office in Farrukhnagar’s Fazilpur area on Thursday, police said. While Sandeep (25) succumbed to the injuries on his head and stomach on the spot, Ramavtar died in the hospital. Sunil (26) was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Rewari, and was later shifted to Medanta hospital, where he is recuperating.

 An FIR was lodged against the property dealer and his accomplices. However, no accused have been arrested yet. “The accused have been identified as Ved Saini, his accomplice Jagbir and Jagbir’s son. Four teams were set up to nab them,” Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south) said.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar confirmed to TOI that a dispute over a plot led to the murder of the two property dealers. “We have vital information about the accused. They will be arrested soon,” he said.
 
 Sandeep, Ramavatar and Sunil, who came from Bhadsa village in Jhajjar, wanted to meet Saini to settle the property dispute over the plot worth over Rs 60 lakh in Farrukhnagar. Police said the three were attacked reportedly on the behest of Saini, who along with accomplice Jagbir, his son and two others were booked under sections 302 (murder) IPC and 25-54-59 of Arms Act. Police said the attackers reached Saini’s office in a white Scorpio.
 
 Sunil, who is the complainant and the eyewitness, alleged that Saini duped them of money in a deal over the plot, which had been already sold to another person. “It was later decided in a panchayat that Saini will return them around Rs 48 lakh, which he had received as the first installment. He called us to his office to give the balance amount. When we reached his office, Saini and one more person were present. After around five minutes three more people came to the office. When we asked for the money, Saini refused give it and indulged in an argument with us. When insisted that the money should be given at any cost, they started firing at us. Soon, all of them fled the spot in the Scorpio,” alleged Sunil, who is reportedly stable now.
 
 Hearing the gunshots, people in the neighbourhood informed police. A team led by ACP (Pataudi) Tanya Singh visited the spot.
 
 “More than 15 rounds were fired at the property dealers. Around 15 shells of bullets were found at the spot. Sunil named Ved Saini as the main accused in his complaint. We handed over the bodies to the kin after conducting postmortem and launched the probe,” said inspector Virender Singh, SHO, Farrukhnagar police station. 
 
 
