PUNE: The Pune Police Public School recently organized a   from Garware College to Shaniwarwada as a part of the ‘The Raising Day’ programme. 

 As many as 25   and   participated in the rally, which was flagged off by joint commissioner of police Sunil Ramanand. Street plays with social messages were also staged during the course of the rally, where Mahila Suraksha Dal gave information about the work they have been doing for the safety of women. 
 
 Police commissioner Rashmi Shukla addressed the gathering. Girl students from various schools attended a demonstration by police personnel at Shivajinagar police station regarding different weapons used by police and nature of their work. They were accompanied by police sub-inspector Smita Patil.
 
 Hockey champ from KHS shines
 
 Gauri Salunke of standard IX from Dr Kalmadi Shamarao High School, Aundh, recently represented Maharashtra in under-17 national hockey tournament at Jalgaon and Meerut. She was the only girl to be selected from Pune out of 200 competitors.
 
 She was introduced to hockey a few years ago after the sport was included as an enhanced learning activity at the school. Soon her passion for the sport made her strive for excellence, leading her to be the captain of the girls’ hockey team.
 
 SNBP stages dance show
 
 Students of SNBP I School, Moshi, performed various dance forms, including those from China, Africa, America and Japan among others, at their annual day function recently, which was celebrated under the theme ‘Around the world’. 
 
 The finale included Shiva’s ‘Tandava‘, a vigorous dance that signifies a cycle of creation, preservation and dissolution. The characteristics of tandava were derived from the fourth chapter of Natya Shastra by Bharat Muni.
 
 ‘Athletic-o-talentia’ at RIMS, Undri
 
 RIMS   recently organized their annual sports meet. Director Museeb Rais and principal Rajeshwari Janakiraman welcomed the chief guest Col. Paramjeet Singh Cheena, Commandant, Army Sports Institute. In his address, he appealed to the students to strive hard to attain their goals. He declared the sports meet open by releasing pigeons as a symbol of peace and hope. The opening ceremony began with lighting of the torch, followed by the march past by the four houses and an oath-taking ceremony.
 
 Also, various races for the pre-primary and the secondary sections were held. These included 50 metre, 100 metre, 200 metre races and 4x100 metre relays. 
 
 The pre-primary drill was followed by a karate display. The athletic events came to an end with the prize distribution ceremony.
 
 
