MYSURU: The III additional district and sessions court on Monday issued a non-bailable warrant against   after rejecting his petition of exemption from appearing before the court on health grounds.

 The court remarked that the reports submitted by Raju’s counsel Lokesh look ‘ambiguous’ and the same cannot be accepted by the court. It posted the next hearing to March 6, 2017. 
 
 District minister HC Mahadevappa’s son Bose is also an accused in the case, wherein mines and geology department senior geologist Alphonsus was caught red-handed by   police while he was accepting Rs 1 lakh from complainant Basavaraj in 2010. Bose appeared before the court on Monday. 
 
 Bose and his assistant Raju were arraigned in the graft case in September 2016. Since then, the duo had been buying time to appear before the court. On February 20, Bose petitioned, seeking additional time from the court, saying he will file exemption petition in a higher court seeking to stop trial against him. But the court rejected his plea, stating that there is sufficient evidence against him to conduct the trial, and posted the hearing to February 27, 2017.
 
 Basavaraj’s counsels S Lokesh and   said that the court was about to frame charges against the duo in the case to commence trial against them. But as one of the accused, Raju, was not present on Monday, the hearing was posted to March 6, when the court would frame charges against them. 
 
 Lokesh confirmed that the court judge S Sudindranath issued a non-bailable warrant against Raju for not appearing on Monday. Raju, through his advocate, had filed a petition claiming he is suffering from chikungunya and hence he cannot attend court on Monday. But the court wasn’t convinced about the medical records submitted, saying they are ambiguous.
 
 “As charges have to be framed before of all the accused, and Raju remained absent on Monday, the hearing was adjourned to March 6,” explained Lokesh. 
 
 Though Lokayukta police had dropped the names of Bose and Raju while filing a chargesheet against Alphonsus in 2013, the court took cognizance of the petition filed by Basavaraj and arraigned the duo and named them as accused in the case in September 2016.
 
