HYDERABAD: Before the   on Tuesday could finalise Nagole as the venue for Telangana JAC’s public meeting to highlight unemployment in the state, its chairman   withdrew the petition that sought permission to hold the meet in areas like Indira Park, Nizam grounds or   grounds.

 Kodandaram later said that the meet would be held as scheduled on Wednesday in Indira Park. Earlier, Telangana Advocate General   told the court that police rejected TJAC’s plea to hold the meet on OU grounds or anywhere in the city in the light of the recent attack on the censor board office by OU students seeking clearance for a Telugu movie Saranam Gachaami. He said the state government was apprehensive that such an attack might take place again if the rally was allowed to be held in the city’s core areas. 
 
 He added that the state was ready to grant permission for the meet to be held at Nagole or Miyapur. When the AG told the court about the destruction of statues on Tank Bund in which certain JAC members took part, the petitioner’s counsel B Rachna Reddy objected to it and said that some of the leaders who were now in positions of power in the current regime took part in the destruction of statues too.
 
 TJAC was unwilling to postpone the protest meet to Sunday as asked by the state as certain examinations were scheduled to be held on that day. Their counsel also did not accept the suggestion to hold the meet in Nagole on the grounds that it was too far from the city and people coming from far-away places might find it difficult to reach the venue. Justice A Ramalingeswara Rao then asked what problem the TJAC had in holding the meet at Nagole when the state was making arrangements to control traffic. The JAC counsel’s contentions that they would take all precautions to hold the meet peacefully did not instill the required confidence in the judge. 
 
 He said, “You do not have such wherewithal with you”. At the end, when the judge was about to dictate his order, the JAC counsel sought the court’s permission to withdraw their plea which was allowed accordingly.
 
