NEW DELHI: The much delayed project to construct a multiplex-cum-mall in place of the landmark Chanakya cinema is finally nearing its completion. Senior officials of New Delhi Municipal Council ( ) claim the complex will be open to the public in a few months. 

 NDMC awarded the contract for this ambitious project to DLF in 2008, but the work got delayed due to technical glitches. Senior officials of NDMC claim that the project had to wait for clearances from various agencies such as Delhi Fire Services, Airports Authority of India, Delhi Urban Art Commission and Delhi Development Authority.
 
 The plan was first mooted in 2000 when the lease of Chanakya cinema got expired. However, the project could be awarded to DLF only eight years later when the Supreme Court gave nod to NDMC after a long legal battle with the cinema owners. NDMC was eyeing to complete the project ahead of the Commonwealth Games in 2010 in order to attract tourists and cater to diplomats and officials of the participating countries. But the clearences got delayed and the construction actually started in January 2013.
 
 “We have initiated the procedure for issuance of licence and other formalities pertaining to the building. Once construction work is over, we will inspect the building to check the structural stability. We are expecting that it will take another two-three months before it is thrown open to the public,” said a senior official.
 
 A senior DLF official said, “The mall will have a PVR multiplex with a capacity to accommodate 1,000 people along with a floor exclusively for high-end retail and two floors for food.”
 
 Chanakya cinema, located near Yashwant Place Market, has been a major landmark for the people of Delhi. The market complex has been famous for its good-quality leather and handicraft items, and street food. But after Chanakya cinema was shut down, the popularity of the market also went down, said the NDMC official. 
 
 “The council has now sanctioned Rs 60 crore for redeveloping the market which would include landscaped gardens, proper parking facility and upliftment of its infrastructure. This will be undertaken by the council immediately after the mall-cum-multiplex project is completed,” the official added. 
 
