LUCKNOW: Every election, political workers from different parties come up with innovative slogans and posters that add colour to the polling gala. If slogan-chanting draws applause and helps supporters bond at rallies and meetings, posters attempt to influence the electorate by raising a specific issue.

 This time too, political workers are trying to outdo the rival camps by putting up posters and even uploading them on social media. Most of these are the brainchild of local leaders who, while campaigning for their party, want to draw the attention of the high command.
 
 In Allahabad, it's the Congress that has taken the lead in putting up posters and banners. Youth leaders have put up over 30 posters and banners in different parts of the city within five months, most of them beseeching the high command to bring Priyanka Vadra into active politics. General secretary of district Congress committee, Allahabad, Haseeb Ahmad, said, claimed to have installed over 30 banners and posters in a span of five months. “Catchy posters grab immediate attention of the masses,“ he said.
 
 Three posters worth mentioning here depicted Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi as Arjun, Priyanka Vadra as Durga and NSUI's controversial poster that made a casteist remark about Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Party leaders even faced legal action for the   poster.
 
 Majority of Congress posters in stalled by Haseeb and others were aimed to draw high command attention towards entry of Priyanka Vadra into active UP politics. “ Youth Congress workers have been demanding the entry of Priyanka Vadra since 2013 and same was even raised before the team of Prasant Kishore (PK)“ said Haseeb, adding, “We will continue to raise the demand through posters and banners till she joins active politics“Taking a jibe at the Congress posters, a BJP leader said, “Congress politics banks heavily on banners because they haven't done any ground work.“
 
 BJP leader   said, “Our posters always highlight current issues, especially the law and order crisis and rampant corruption in the state.“ Of course, two major Union government decisions, of surgical strike and notebandi, have found a place on BJP posters.
 
 On its part, the   has chosen to ignore the opposition's charges of corruption and has been focusing on its young chief minister   and the development projects that came up under him. SP leader Daan Bahadur “Madhur“ said, “Akhilesh government has done a remarkable job, so it's difficult for other parties to find issues against us.“
 
 In line with party workers using posters to draw the high command's attention to their specific demands, Gorakhpur unit of BJP's minority wing has asked local MP Yogi Adityanth be projected as the chief ministerial candidate.  , comprising mostly Muslims, has been releasing posters to that effect, depicting Yogi as an avatar of Rama, Hanuman and even Chhatrapati Shivaji, the iconic Maratha king. In fact, the latest one to come out of the Gorakhpur unit shows Yogi as super cop Singham. Irfan Ahmed, a member of the minority wing, insisted that for the state's overall development, it was necessary to hand over the reigns to Aditynath.“
 
 The poster has slogans like “Abki baar Yogi sarkar“ and “Yogiji hi UP ko Pakistan banney se rok sakte hain“.
 
