HYDERABAD: With a spurt in the number of   that necessitate  , city doctors are now looking forward to an  , which is in advanced stage of trials. Doctors hope the artificial kidney, that is expected to be out in the market in three years, will do away with the need for  . 

 In what may turn out to be a relief, doctors say that once the artificial kidney is available for human use, there will not be any need for live or cadaver organ donations. Patients, who are candidates for dialysis, will just have to get fitted with the artificial kidney and they can then carry on with their lives as usual. 
 
 The device is a bio-hybrid model and uses microchip filters and living kidney cells. Interestingly, the artificial kidney does not require any battery for power. It will get the energy from the patient's own heart. 
 
 According to senior nephrologist and hypertension specialist Dr Mohammed A Rafey, the most exciting ongoing area of research in medicine today is the the development of artificial kidney. "When ready, it is expected to replace the donor kidney, which usually requires a long waiting period," he says.
 
 Dr Dilip M Babu, consultant nephrologist at  , Hyderguda, says the 'wearable' artificial kidney, is a new dialysis technology. This will benefit people with end-stage kidney disease, he says. "In addition to mobility, it will provide additional treatment benefits of longer sessions and more frequent dialysis," he says, adding that the artificial kidney will be a boon too many youngsters who are reporting kidney failure.
 
 Nephrologist Dr Sanjay Maitra says the artificial kidney is a joint venture between Vanderbilt University Medical Centre and the University of California San Francisco. "Human trials are likely to start in the near future and as per estimates it may be operational by 2020," he says.
 
 Research is also going on 3D printed replacements and growing kidneys in laboratories using stem cells. "One study has even managed to implant lab-grown kidneys into animals that could then pass urine, although they admit human studies are far off. If any of these projects are successful, it will change the way we manage kidney disease ," says Dr Sanjay.
 
 The artificial kidney will also check the risk of hepatitis C infection. "Those undergoing dialysis are at high risk of acquiring hepatitis C during the procedure due to non-adherence of safety protocols and lack of appropriate training at healthcare facilities," says Dr TK Saha, senior consultant in nephrology at Apollo Hospital, Secunderabad. There is a need to implement universal protocols mandated by the WHO.
 
 
