CHENNAI: As TB experts fan out on   on Friday -- in keeping with the theme ' ' -- campaigns seem to stop short of the bars that  . And it isn’t just   that elude this group, dubbed as ‘high-risk’ for infections, but treatment and diagnosis too, a study has found. 

 A team from International Union Against   (The Union) examined the availability of TB diagnostic and treatment facilities in 157 prisons across 300 districts in the country, including 10 in Tamil Nadu. They found that prisoners in only 18% of the jails had access to diagnostic services within the premises, and around 50% to treatment. Less than half of the prisons screened inmates for TB on entry, found the study, published recently in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases.
 
 Although prisons are known to be a high risk environment for tuberculosis, owing to overcrowding, low levels of nutrition, poor infection control and lack of sufficient ventilation, the availability of diagnostic and treatment services is limited. And so is information on the extent of the problem. It was this gap that Dr Banuru Muralidhara Prasad, the lead investigator of the study, and his team hoped to fill when they set out to convince officials to allow them into prison complexes. 
 
 Of the 157 prisons the team visited, 24% were central prisons, which usually house prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for more than two years, 42% district and 34% sub-district jails. They found diagnosis and treatment to be more accessible for inmates in central prisons compared to the others -- 50% of the central prisons screened people for HIV and TB at the time of entry, while the figure stood at around 31% in sub-district jails. While the government-sponsored short course directly observed treatment regimen was available in 65% of the central prisons, it was least available in district jails (22%). In Tamil Nadu, which has nine central prisons and an equal number of district jails, diagnosis remains a problem. “Almost all the central and district prisons here have centres for HIV and TB screening at the point of entrance, but there is no X-ray facility for people who have a physical condition that may deter them from producing sputum for testing,” said Ganesh M, programme manager for Axshya, a global funded TB project under which the study was carried out. He said prison authorities need permission from the court to move a prisoner to a hospital that has X-ray facilities. “This involves a lot of paperwork. So authorities usually choose to ignore the signs,” he said.
 
 Director of medical services K Senguttuvan, while acknowledging that TB diagnosis was more passive in prisons, said an action plan was being chalked out specifically for high-risk groups like prisoners. “This will be enforced some time by June end or July beginning,” he said, adding they were holding consultation meetings with  .
 
