MUMBAI: The Supreme Court’s stay on   over granting of   for   has come at a time when most seats at the premier institutes are already confirmed. After the second round of admissions concluded on Thursday, only around 68 (around 0.6%) of the 10,988 IIT seats are vacant. 

 The court’s stay has put students in a tight spot as revision of ranks at this stage would mean losing out on the seats of choice, which they have been allotted. If the petition of the student is accepted in the SC, it will prove to be a huge setback to the aspirants as well as the IITs. Admissions to NITs and other central engineering institutes too will be affected.
 
 This year, 18 bonus marks were given to candidates for ‘ambiguous’ questions and those not clearly printed in the paper. Initially, when the answer key was released, students got 11 marks for three ambiguous questions. After a few students challenged two more questions — mathematics (4 marks) and chemistry (3 marks)—that were not printed clearly in some paper codes, marks were granted to all candidates to ensure a fair process. However, many meritorious students were against IIT’s decision of granting seven ‘bonus’ marks to all.
 
 Riya Baviskar, who secured an all-India rank of 115, said it was fair to give bonus marks to only those students who attempted the questions. “But at this stage, it is very essential for the court to come out with an order soon as it may delay the admission process. If the court decides to revise the rank list, it will be a setback for students who have got seats of their choice but stand to lose seven marks. For, their ranks will drop and they will not get the same seat again,” said Baviskar.
 
 An IIT official said a revision of ranks will be a setback for the IITs also. “Seven marks mean a lot in the ranking scheme. Many students may be displaced from higher ranks. The top rankers may not be affected, but there will be displacement after 10-20 ranks. The entire process will come undone,” said the official, adding that admissions to NITs, IIITs and other government funded institutions will also be affected as they are part of the joint process. 
 
 
