CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government's chief prosecutor told the Madras high court on Monday that a total of 119 MLAs, in two batches of 100 and 19, staying in a seaside resort at Koovathur on the outskirts of Chennai, have given statements denying that they are being confined by force. 

  While this clears the air about the allegation of illegal detention made by TN chief minister O Panneerselvam, it goes against AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala's claim on Sunday that she has the support of 129 MLAs. Further embarrassing the Sasikala group, an MLA from the resort reached the OPS camp, claiming he had escaped in disguise. 
 
  On Monday, when habeas corpus petitions filed by Krishnarayapuram MLA M Geetha's cousin and a voter from Kunnam constituency came up for hearing, prosecutor R Rajarathinam said a team of 11 officials from the revenue and police departments recorded the MLAs' statements. 
 
  Earlier, K Balu, representing voter Elavarasan, said none of those kept in the resort were free and that Panneerselvam himself had gone on record stating that the MLAs were under illegal custody. "We have apprehension that the public prosecutor's office is misdirected or misinstructed (sic!)," he said, adding that unidentified rowdy elements were staying in and around the resort. They were threatening local people, who had to conduct agitations. Journalists were chased away and their camera and mobile phones snatched. The counter-affidavit, however, is silent on all these aspects, Balu said. 
 
 Congress lawyer A P Suryaprakasam wanted the court to appoint its own advocate-commissioners team to visit the resort to ascertain first-hand the status of the MLAs there. Advocate Preetha said her cousin and MLA Geetha was under unlawful detention and added that she feared for her safety.
 
  Rajarathinam, however, relied on the reports compiled by the revenue and police officials of Kancheepuram district and said there were no complaints of illegal custody. He opposed any suggestion to depute the court's own team. 
 
  The bench said it had its own legal limitations while hearing habeas corpus petitions; the statement of the detenue alone matters. However, when counsel wanted the court to summon the MLAs concerned, the judges did not heed to it. 
 
 
