A   that Dehradun’s name will be changed gained pace on Thursday, following which the city’s youngsters took to social media to express anger. The social media war became so big that the CM was forced to clarifyIt turned out to be just a rumour but the news created enough mayhem in Doon, at least on social media. 

  
  
 On Thursday, a local news channel ran a news saying that Dehradun’s name will be changed and that the   government will announce their decision on August 4 about the changed name. 
 
  As soon as the news started doing the rounds, people started posting angry messages on social media. While some were furious, others were sarcastic; and then there were some who indulged in this social media war for pure fun. Posts like ‘Finally the name of Dehradun to be changed to DehraDhool, Kitni Dhool hai har jagah’ (referring to the growing pollution level in the city, thanks to the ongoing flyover construction work for years), started doing the rounds online. The overzealous few even started planning a protest and online campaign against the so-called decision. The Twitter mayhem stopped only after CM tweeted assuring that planning no such thing.
  
 
  
  Sanjeev Chamoli, a graphic designer from the city, says, "The so-called news came as a shock to everyone. No one in this state will ever want the city’s name to be changed. As soon as I heard about it, I started planning a protest and a   against this decision. Since I am a graphic designer, I even started designing posts for the social media campaign."
 
  Akshat, a mass communication student from Haridwar Road, says, "Right after I saw the news, I posted a sarcastic tweet in which I suggested to change the city’s name after our state ministers. I just wanted to bash our government for planning this move. But it was only after CM’s tweet that I relaxed a bit. Thank god, it was just a rumour."
  
  Pooja, a BTech student from Prem Nagar, says, "The name, Dehradun has a history associated to it, we don’t want any other name for our city. Agar CM tweet nahi karte toh shayad main shaam ko ek online petition shuru kar deti iske liye."
 
  Ankit, an MA student from Doon, says, "I have always hated when the government changes the name of the state or a city. Doon name is its identity and I don’t think the name can be changed just like that. The name of our state has already been changed from   to Uttarakhand and that was a controversial move back then. Though this time this news was a rumour, I hope the government never plans to change our city’s name."
 
  As the news became viral and with angry reactions poring in, the CM clarified with a tweet posted from his official id which read "There is no proposal to change Dehradun’s name- all reports on city name change are completely baseless."
 
 -- Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
 
