CHENNAI: The iconic   on Kamarajar Salai abutting the   will be removed by May 18, the state government informed the   on Tuesday.

 The statue of the legendary actor who died in 2001 was installed at the junction of Kamarajar Salai and Radhakrishnan Salai on July 12, 2006 by the previous DMK government. Earlier, P N Srinivasan had filed a PIL seeking removal of the statue from the spot on the grounds that it obstructed the view of the Gandhi statue and violated the undertaking given by the Tamil Nadu government before the   that no statue or structure would be erected on a public road.
 
 After inquiries, which underscored that the statue was obstructing the view of motorists, the high court had directed the state government to decide on removing the statue “as expeditiously as possible.” It also said national highways and state highways constructed by acquiring private property and using public funds could be used only for the travelling needs of public. "They cannot be converted for other collateral purposes like erection of statues and memorials."
 
 Even as the proceedings were pending, Srinivasan expired, following which his son Nagarajan substituted himself in the PIL. Saying there was no response from the government despite high court directions, Nagarajan then filed a contempt petition. Meanwhile, the state government announced that it proposed to build a manimandapam (memorial) to the actor on the banks of the Adyar river, opposite the erstwhile Sathya Studio, and allotted 65 cents of land for the purpose. The statue would be shifted to the memorial.
 
 On Tuesday, the additional advocate general appearing on behalf of the state government said, instead of the earlier decision to shift the statue by October 15, the state government had decided to shift it on or before May 18.
 
 Closing the contempt petition, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar said, “The time schedule submitted before us must be adhered to. We hope the authorities will not give any cause to us to revive the petition and take a most stringent view of the matter.”
 
 
