NOIDA: A driver of an Ola cab was looted at gunpoint by four men at   on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway late on Saturday. The driver, Paurush Chauhan, was taken hostage and driven around in the same cab for nearly an hour and thrashed by the criminals who also snatched Rs 15,500 from him. However, his ordeal had just begun as the cops sent him from one police station to another for almost a day to fix the crime spot. 

 According to Chauhan, an original resident of Amroha district, he was travelling in a Swift car (UP14ET5422) on a ‘personal duty’ from Mathura to Pari Chowk. He reached Pari Chowk around 10.30pm when he was approached by four men seeking a ride till City Centre Metro station in Noida’s Sector 39.
 
 “He was not supposed to have any personal booking but went on a ‘personal duty’ from Noida to Mathura. When he was returning, he got another booking for Rs 450 and dropped a man at Pari Chowk. After that, when he reached Pari Chowk police chowki area, he was approached by four men for a ride till City Centre Metro. On reaching near the cut in Sector 135, one of the four men sitting on the left side of driver’s seat pulled the handbrake of the car. The three sitting behind pulled him back and started beating him. They had two pistols in their hand and took him at gunpoint. One of them drove the car till they reached IMS College in Ghaziabad’s Masuri area and dragged him to the bushes,” Lokendra Chauhan, Paurush’s cousin, told TOI.
 
 He was pulled to the ground and one of them sat upon him, tied his legs and snatched Rs 15,500 from him. “Later they gave me Rs 500 and the SIM card of the mobile but said that the mobile has been thrown away. The mobile was registered with Ola and had GPS installed. I tried to untie my feet and sought help from a guard who untied me,” Paurush told TOI.
 
 He called his relatives on phone and his brothers reached the spot. He later approached Kasna police, Masuri police (Ghaziabad),   police and the Expressway police but they remained in a fix over the exact spot.
 
 The driver alleged that despite giving two written complaints — one at Kasna and another at Expressway police station — the police refused to lodge an FIR.
 
 The victim and his two brothers drove around 350 kilometres hopping between four police station areas, they said. “We reached Masuri police station around 2pm from where we were sent to Pari Chowk police chowki. A PCR team called us at the Agra cut and asked us to explain the exact spot. When we stopped in the Knowledge Park area, they called the police of that area and again tried to locate the spot. We brought them here near Sector 135 intersection where the handbrake was pulled by the assailants,” Lokendra said.
 
 However, police said the complainant tried to hide certain facts from them earlier claiming that his car had broken down at Pari Chowk when he was approached by the four men. “When he said that the car broke down, I started suspecting his version,”  , chowki incharge,   police chowki said.
 
 “My brother was afraid to share that he took a private duty because it is not allowed. That is his only fault. Even the Expressway police refused to lodge our complaint,” Lokendra said.
 
 Late in the night, SSP Love Kumar has sent the chowki incharge of Jaypee Wish town area, Giriraj Singh, to police lines for not registering an FIR in the matter. A complaint was later lodged under Section 392 (robbery) at Expressway police station.
 
