Shares of private sector banks, capital goods and FMCG (fast moving consumer goods) companies have emerged as the biggest winners in the current rally. While stocks of several leading private banks touched their yearly highs on Friday, the BSE capital goods and FMCG indices have surged 30.6% and 23.8% respectively so far in 2017. 

 The scrips of the country's largest private sector lenders -   and HDFC Bank - touched their 52-week highs. While the HDFC Bank scrip hit its yearly high of Rs 1631.5, having gained 34.9% so far in 2017, the ICICI Bank stock soared to a new high of Rs 323.3 posting a 26.4% increase for the year. The IndusInd Bank scrip also touched its 52-week high on Friday. 
 
 The capital goods index has gained the most among equity indices. Shares of firms have in the sector have had a good ride on the bourses. Engineering behemoth Larsen and Toubro raced to its yearly high on Friday and has jumped 32.4% in 2017. Ditto with other capital goods firms with Kalpataru Power Transmission surging 38.4%, which was followed by Havells India (37.2%),   (36.5%) and BHEL (30.9%) in the current year.
 
 "Most private banks have started giving good performance and are showing good credit growth," said Deven R Choksey, managing director, KR Choksey Shares and Securities. "Private banks have benefited from the surge in liquidity (in the markets)," said Vinod Nair, head, fundamental research, Geojit Financial Services.
 
 "New orders have started to flow for capital goods companies. There is visibility on revenues and the confidence is back on the earnings front," Choksey said. "Government spending has picked up, especially in railways, and it is benefiting capital goods and infrastructure firms," Nair said. 
 
 "The GST rate for capital goods firms has been fixed at a lower level than existing rates. This would benefit the sector," he said. Shares of FMCG companies also were not far behind in performance sweepstakes. Sensex heavyweight ITC, scaled its new peak on Friday having registered a nearly 27.6% increase so far in 2017. Hindustan Unilever, another Sensex constituent has gained about 26% this year.
 
 
