VADODARA/ANANDPUR/RAJKOT: District authorities in Anand and Jaunagadh have restricted movement of   -- mules, donkeys and horse-- after the deadly   disease was detected there.

 The disease is commonly contracted by consuming food or water contaminated by the nasal discharge of carrier animals. After an incubation period of about two weeks, affected animals usually have blood infection and high fever. A thick nasal discharge is seen and the animal has trouble breathing and other respiratory signs. Death occurs within a few days of infection. The disease is caused by the bacterium Burkholderia mallei. The disease causes ulcers in the upper respiratory tract, lungs, and skin of the animal. Humans and other animals are also susceptible and infections are usually fatal.
 
 In July last year, around 40 equines including over a dozen horses and mules, across the state, have been put to sleep after they were found infected with this highly contagious and fatal disease found in the horse family. 
 
 In Junagadh, the district collector issued notification two days ago restricting movement of equine animals the district after a horse was found infected with glanders disease. The horse was put to sleep by the animal husbandry department officials.
 
 On Tuesday, restrictions was imposed on the movement of equine animals in Anand district after the Hisar-based National   on Equines (NRCE) found one mule there suffering from the deadly glanders disease.
 
 Anand district collector Dr Dhaval Patel has banned entry and exit of horses, donkeys and mules under The   and Contagious Disease in Animals Act 2009 for the next three months as part of precautionary measure. 
 
 “Based on clinical science, our doctors suspected that a mule brought to Petlad’s veterinary hospital’s   could be suffering from the glanders disease. Later, a sample collected by the Animal Disease Investigation Unit, Ahmedabad, and sent to NRCE, Hisar for detailed diagnosis,” said Dr Snehal Patel, deputy director, animal husbandry department. 
 
 While the initial reports were on borderline, a sample was re-sent to NRCE, Hisar. 
 
 “The second report which came to us on March 18, stated that the sample was 100 % positive of glanders disease after which as per procedure, we euthanised the mule while the entire area surrounding the brick kiln, where the mule was staying, was disinfected,” said Patel. 
 
 Under the Glanders and Farcy Act, 1899, and its successor the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Disease in Animals Act, 2009, equine animals which test glanders-positive have to be euthanised.
 
 “From now onwards, within the radius of five to ten kilometres, the animal husbandry team will be taking samples of each donkey, mule and horse which will be sent to NRCE for detailed diagnosis,” said Patel.
 
