Chennai: If you chance upon a team of officers going around villages with satellite imagery, geo-physical survey equipment and GPS, don’t be perplexed. The government hydro-geologists are fanning out across the state, looking for aquifers, given the precarious water situation and the growing demand across the state. 

 The hydrogeologists drawn from the   began the process of remote sensing and GIS-based identification of aquifers since January after the two successive monsoons failed last year, leaving the state to face one of its worst  . If the observation wells of the state ground and surface water resources data centre are any indication, the groundwater table has worsened in the state in the last five months. In Namakkal, Salem, Tirupur, Theni, Erode, Dindigul and Trichy ground water level has dipped to alarmingly low levels. Coimbatore’s ground water level stands at 17.5m, a sharp fall of four metres compared to last year.
 
 The hydrogeomorphology maps prepared by TWAD using satellite imagery and field data come in handy now. “The hydrogeologists managed to identify 404 aquifers till date and borewells were drilled, including 18 large infiltration wells dug up on the river beds to augment the supply through TWAD Board,” said a senior government official. The state is predominantly (73%) covered by hard crystalline and unconsolidated sedimentary formations. A set of another 134 bore wells would be dug in the next two weeks to meet the water needs. Work is nearing completion. The official estimate is that some 90 million litres a day was being pumped out from the newly-created sources to augment the existing supply. The success rate of these sources is satisfactory so far. 
 
 The satellite images helped the state dig up wells in Cauvery, Palar and Tamirabarani rivers from where 800 litres of water per minute get pumped out. The quantum of supply is not adequate as supply dwindled to less than 75% of the designed quantum of water supply schemes since March. “Given the depleting groundwater levels, new bore well sources could fail, unless sustainability is ensured. It is a stop gap measure,” said another official. The water managers are hoping for a revival of good monsoon this year beginning June. 
 
 The dwindling storage in major reservoirs is a cause for worry too, as wetting the river beds is required to run 547 combined water supply schemes of local bodies. On request from TWAD, the state PWD began releasing water from Amaravathi, Mullaperiyar, Cauvery, Manimuthar and Papanasam dams recently to sustain drinking water supply. “From Monday, 565 cusecs of water per day is being released from Bhavanisagar dam to rejuvenate the sources of Erode, while 250 cusecs a day from either Manimuthar or Papansamam which serve districts like Tuticorin and Tirunelveli,” the official said. 
 
 
