GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Government departments in Noida and Ghaziabad held brainstorming sessions on Wednesday to devise measures to implement the ban on consumption of   and gutka on their premises soon after chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi issued an order to the effect.

 The measures to implement the order were discussed in board rooms even before it was communicated to them formally.
 
 TOI visited the district collectorate and SSP office in Ghaziabad only to find paan-stained walls even though warning signs had been put up at several places.
 
 “Since the order has come from the highest authority in the state, it will be implemented in full letter and spirit. The government offices in the district have already been declared smoke-free zones in the past. We are thinking about imposing penalties on violators.,” district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani told TOI.
 
 The Ghaziabad police is also chalking out definitive measures to implement the measures in police stations and outposts. “An awareness campaign will be conducted among officials. Monitoring will be done through CCTV cameras wherever they have been installed,” SP (city) Salmantaj Patil told TOI.
 
 Officials of Noida Authority and Greater Noida Authority said that staff in their offices will be sensitized about the issue and an eye will be kept on outsiders who consume paan and gutkha within their premises. According to officials, there have been instances where visitors have been found spitting paan on walls, flower pots, near water coolers and wash basins.
 
 “Signboards warning visitors and staff members not to spit within premises are already in place in our office. An elaborate set of measures will be worked out once we read the provisions of the order after its formal communication,” Noida Authority CEO, Deepak Agarwal, told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, residents have welcomed the move.
 
 “Paan is considered to be intricately linked with the socio-cultural fabric of UP. However, it is in no way linked to work culture. The decision is appreciable particularly because it comes across as a demeaning gesture when officials took to visitors while chewing paan or gutkha. The ban will also help maintain cleanliness of office premises,” said Vireshwar Tyagi, a resident of Ghaziabad.
 
