With two days left to  's Purpose Tour concert, Mumbai has caught the Bieber fever. The 22-year-old Canadian pop-star was scheduled to arrive in the city on Sunday, and a crowd of   gathered at the International Airport to catch a glimpse of the global icon. While his crew landed in Mumbai, there was no sign of the man himself. DJ Tay James and  , lead choreographer and creative director of the Purpose tour arrived at Mumbai airport along with dancers from his crew, Johnny Erasme (JBlaze), Cj Salvador, Jonathan Rabon, Aubree Storm, Elysandra Quiñones. Although the impatient fans did not get to see their icon, the crew was welcomed with equal love and escorted to their hotel in Lower parel. Bieber's 120-member team has been put up at The St Regis and The Four Seasons in Lower Parel.

 
  
  
 
 The crew put up pictures from a party they attended at St Regis' rooftop resto-bar, Asilo. On Monday, they took a day-long sightseeing tour of the city visiting the iconic Gateway of India, The Taj Mahal Hotel, David Sassoon Library and also took a walk around Colaba. It was previously reported that the popstar was to be a part of this tour, but he was spotted around malls of Dubai, enjoying a camelback ride. Bieber was in Dubai for a concert that took place on Saturday and was spotted in a club White Dubai and then taking a dip in another beach bar called Zero Gravity.
 
 Although disappointed, the Beliebers rushed to the airport again on Monday after reports of  's bodyguard Shera, who is reportedly handling the security for the 23-year-old  , visiting the airport for a recce, started doing rounds among the fan community.
 
 Annie Anthony, one of the Beliebers who went to the air port two days in a row said, "We waited all day yesterday, met his crew and even spoke to them, but he didn't come. Now we came to know that Shera has come here, so we're waiting here again. A private jet from Dubai is scheduled to land in the evening, so we're waiting to see if it's him or else we will come back tomorrow.“ 
 
 According to Annie, the airport authorities have informed them that Bieber is scheduled to arrive in Mumbai on Tuesday afternoon. Meanwhile, the city police is gearing up for what can be easily called one of the biggest events the city has ever seen. Stringent security arrangements have been put into place. About 1700 to 1800 security personnel will be guarding the stadium. Mumbai police along with some private security firms and Bieber's own personal security will be marking a three-tiered protection ring on and around the performance stage. Police has strictly advised against carrying any metal or glass objects including bottles. Only plastic bottles will be allowed into the venue. Justin Bieber is set to perform at Nerul's   on May 10 to a houseful crowd of 45,000 fans.
 
 By 
  with inputs from 
 
 
 
  
  
 
