Vadodara: The final survey for the Vadodara stretch of the ambitious Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project will begin in the next couple of days. 

 The survey will be carried out by a team from the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL which has been formed to implement the project in coordination with officials of the Vadodara railway division and the Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES), the organization which undertakes investigations and feasibility studies for new railway projects. 
 
 Sources said that the elevated track for the bullet train project which will be parallel to the existing railway track in Vadodara will be 15 to 16 m wide.
 
 In the Vadodara stretch, the elevated track will be around 17 km long starting from Bajwa to Makarpura. Although the width of the track will be 15 to 16 metres in major areas, at near platform number six of Vadodara railway station, NHSRCL will require 30 to 35 metres wide stretch to set up the platform for bullet train. 
 
 The authorities are considering demolishing the entire architectural façade of the Alkapuri end near platform number six of the railway station for the project. It was in 2011 that the Alkapuri side entry/ exit of the railway station had got a facelift after it was designed in ornate Gaekwadi style architecture. 
 
 Officials have already announced that of the 508 km long Mumbai-Ahmedabad route, 468 km will be elevated while 27 will be through a tunnel and 13 km on the ground. 
 
 “While we have worked out the proposed alignment, things will get clear only with the final survey. During the survey, we will work out locations of peers (pillars) on the stretch on the basis of which it will be decided what needs to be dismantled on the route,” said an official close to the development. 
 
 The peers will have a clear height of around 18 metres all through the stretch. 
 
 The major challenge before the officials is to ensure that the actual acquisition of land gets limited to the footprint of the pillars to avoid impact of buildings. “At most places, the pillars will be located at the centre of the roads so that the roads also remain operational beneath the elevated tracks causing minimum disturbance,” said the official. 
 
 Once, the final survey gets over, the process for land acquisition will begin. The officials have roped in a retired deputy collector for handling the process of land acquisition. 
 
 “Currently, we have clarity regarding only the mid-section where the land is open,” he said. 
 
 
