Nagpur: The   screening campaign at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) seems to be moving ahead with the right pace. Since its launch in October last year the college has screened 4000 patients through various camps and outpatient department (OPD) screening. The college is also working in collaboration with the Pandit Deendayal Institute run by Dr Viral Kamdar.

 The IGGMC acting dean Dr PG Dixit said that the medical education minister Girish Mahajan had instructed to share the progress of the project with media on the occasion of international women’s day. Dr Dixit said that screening the patients was not a difficult job but making them come over again to the hospital for a follow up was difficult.
 
 “It is sheer lack of awareness that brings   to the doctor in very late stage of breast cancer. We screened as many as 4000 women from all walks of life in hospital and in camps in city as well as rural areas. Of these 92 women were found positive using the iBreast Exam (iBM) machine imported specifically for primary screening by the Empathy Foundation from which the medical education department bought these simple and handy machines. When we contacted the 92 women for further screening through ultrasound and other radiological examination only 15 women turned up despite repeated reminders. And from these 11 were found positive (suspected to be suffering from the fibrocystic diseases),” said Dr Dixit.
 
 Dr Sandhya Manjrekar, the medical superintendent and professor and head anesthesia, said that IGGMC held a total of 25 camps. “This is such a handy tool that even the paramedical staff can screen women with it,” she said. Dr Anagha Deshpande, the programme incharge and associate professor (AP), radiodignosis said the procedure takes just 1-2 minutes per person. It is very handy tool especially in rural areas.
 
 Dr Alka Patankar, AP obstetrics and Gynaecology said that the screening is done everyday in the OPD in room number 6 between 8am to 2 pm. Women above 30 years of age are screened here. Dr Sushma Thakre, AP, community medicine said breast cancer was likely to occur in women between 30-50 years age, women after menopause, women with early menarchy and late menopause, high fat diet women and obese women and women using oral contraceptive before the first pregnancy and women exposed to radiation.
 
 Dr Satish Sorte, head radiodiganosis, Dr Ramesh Chafl, AP, radiodiagnosis, Dr Sagar pande, deputy superintendet, dr Sunil Lanjewar, Head, surgery. Dr Yashwant Kulkarni, AP anatomy and incharge RGJAY, Dr Nandu Pande, AP Pathology, Dr M Koichade, head, orthopaedics, Dr P P Joshi, head medicine were aslo present on the occasion.
 
 Dr Viral Kamdar, director Pandit Deendayal Institute said that his institute also conducted another 40 camps, screened 3263 camps and found 37 positive patients. 
 
 
