LUDHIANA: The sorry state of the fire brigade department is due to failure of the previous SAD-BJP government in making use of the grant released by the Government of India for the upgradation of the department. The centre had allocated Rs 90.91 crore for the upgradation of the fire department, but the previous government did not pass on the orders to utilize the grant, due to which it lapsed after 31 March this year. This was revealed by local bodies minister Navjot  , who was here in the city on Sunday to meet injured firemen at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). 

 The minister, while addressing a press conference, claimed that under the head of disaster management, the Centre had allocated funds worth Rs629.13 crore, out of which Rs217.78 crore was performance grant, and Rs90.91 crore for upgradation of Punjab’s fire brigade department. Rupees fortyfive crore were released as the first instalment by the finance department, but only Rs17.03 crore was utilized. He said the rest Rs27.07 crore lapsed at the end of the previous financial year. He alleged that since officials did not send the utilization certificate for the usage of the first instalment, the Centre did not release the rest (Rs45.91 crore), so even that amount had lapsed.
 
 While describing the negligence of the government, Sidhu said even from 2009 to 2013, Rs4.60 crore was supposed to be spent on upgradation of the fire brigade department, but due to negligence of the government, the finance department used only Rs60 lakh, and failed to submit the utilization certificate as well. He said that was the reason why even the rupees four-crore grant had lapsed.
 
 Sidhu stated that in this grant, there was no condition of the state government’s share, but even then, the previous government neglected the upgradation of the fire brigade department, which comes under emergency services. He said the state government did not purchase even a single fire tender from 2009 to 2013, whereas other states like Maharashtra utilized the grant and demanded for more grants. He said many fire incidents were being reported every day, and even deaths had occured, but in spite of this, the strengthening of the department was not considered seriously.
 
 The local bodies minister said they had initiated financial and technical audits of all municipal corporations, including  , and erring officials would be suspended from their jobs. He warned all officials that if the corruption charges were proved right, he would immediately dismiss them. Sidhu said he has suspended 18 officers in various departments under local bodies, due to discrepancies. 
 
 ‘READY FOR DEBATE’
 
 The local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu said he was firm on his statement that the SAD-BJP government looted Punjab, and they could not even pay their matching grants in the   project, due to which not even a single scheme under the Smart City project could take off in Ludhiana. He said he was all set to debate with the Badals outside their house in  , if they were ready to face him. 
 
