SURAT: At least 139 wine shops and restaurants in the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and   have stopped serving   following the   order banning sale of liquor within 500 metre of the state highways and national highways from April 1. 

 Official sources said Daman’s excise department had served notices to the wine shops and restaurants selling liquor within 500 metre of the state highways and national highways following the Supreme Court’s order. 
 
 The excise officials had carried out survey at Zari, Baman Puja and Pataliya, which are located close to national highways and state highways in Daman. Around 88 wine shops, bars and restaurants serving liquor were identified for closure and non-renewal of liquor licences till March 31 2017. 
 
 Sources said around 30 wine shops and restaurants are located at Pataliya, which is the most popular spot for tourists to hang around during the weekends and otherwise. Being just six kilometre from the national highway (NH-8) and located on the state highway of Daman, Pataliya has been the hot spot, with many new wine shops and restaurants opening up after 2012. 
 
 All the signages and advertisements of availability of liquor have been removed forthwith from the national highway and state highways. No shops for sale of liquor are visible from the national highways or the state highways directly accessible within a distance of 500 meter from the outer edge.
 
 Same is the situation in DNH, where around 51 wine shops, bars and hotels serving liquor and falling within 500 meter of the state highways and national highways have been affected. 
 
 “This will result in huge unemployment of the people associated with the industry,” said wine shop owner   in Daman.
 
 Significantly, the   has five liquor shops and one of them is located on National Highway 53 (NH 6) at Magdalla. There are 12,500 people with registered liquor permits in the city and on an average 300 visitors are issued liquor permits in a year. Liquor worth Rs43.50 crore was sold during 2016.
 
 Bharuch has four liquor permit shops, including two in Dahej. Of the four shops, one is on National Highway 48 (NH 8) at Rajpipla crossroads. 
 
 “One liquor permit shop near Ankleshwar in Bharuch district and one shop in Surat are close to national highways. We have started the process to take action against these shops. We are seeking opinion from roads and building department in measuring the distance as per the Supreme Court’s order,” said G D Chaudhary, superintendent, prohibition and excise department, Surat.
 
