GHAZIABAD: The seats in Ghaziabad that have primarily an urban voter base yielded good dividends to the BJP in the latest polls. Though the BJP won hands down in all five seats of the district, margins of victory were higher in urban seats compared to those seats where the voter base was rural. This was the main reason for the highest victory margins in Sahibabad and Muradnagar, which have primarily urban voters.

 In  , which includes the urban areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara and Kaushambi, BJP candidate Sunil Sharma trounced his nearest rival Amarpal Sharma by a margin of over 1.5 lakh votes. BJP has won the seat despite the fact that Amarpal Sharma has a huge vote bank in Khoda colony which is located on the borders of Delhi.
 
 The second highest margin of victory for the BJP in the district has been in Muradnagar seat. The two upscale areas of the district, Kavi Nagar and Raj Nagar, are in Muradnagar. Here, BJP’s Ajit Pal Tyagi trounced his nearest rival, Sudhan Rawat of the BSP, by a margin of over 89,000 votes. Congress veteran Surendra Prakash Goel, who also contested from Muradnagar, bagged just 49,000 votes.
 
 “It is the mandate of the people and we respect it. However, polarisation tactics was used by the BJP to woo voters which resulted in the mandate going in their favour,” Ghaziabad district Congress president Harendra Kasana told TOI.
 
 The Ghaziabad assembly constituency also contains a sizeable section of urban population in areas like Nehru Nagar, Model Town, Rakesh Marg and Patel Nagar. The string of massive victory margins continued in Ghaziabad seat too. The BJP candidate from Ghaziabad, Atul Garg, won the seat by trouncing his nearest rival, Suresh Bansal of the BSP, by a margin of over 70,000 votes.
 
 The lowest margin of victory for the BJP has been recorded in Loni assembly seat which has a primarily rural voter base. Nand Kishor Gujjar of the BJP has won the Loni seat by defeating his closes rival Zakir Ali of the BSP by nearly 43,000 votes.
 
 
