For any kind of long-term  , the risk-reward ratio is heavily in favour of   investments. All arguments for the primacy of ‘risk-free’ fixed income investments fall apart when you realise that what looks like freedom from risk is actually freedom to be poor, given the inflation-adjusted, post-tax returns.

 For people who have never invested in stocks, it’s hard to know where to start. There are two distinct ways of investing in equity, one is to choose   and buy and sell them yourself, and the other is to invest through equity  . The final goal is nominally identical—to benefit from the superior returns offered by equity investing, but the two activities are completely different. Unless you are an expert, choose funds.
 
 I’m not saying that an individual can’t invest by themselves with considerable success. However, the odds are against any one individual being able to do so. An even bigger problem is that even those few would have probably learnt to be successful after many failures. That’s something that turns out be a deal breaker for most. Investing through equity-backed mutual funds sidesteps all these problems neatly. The heart of equity investing is having a correct mental model of how successful stock investing is done, and then having the capacity in terms of information, analysis and execution to execute it. An individual would almost always lack the capacity, in terms of money and effort, to do this.
 
 But there are many more advantages to investing in equity through mutual funds. A major one is a disciplined diversification. Fund managers operate within an institutional framework which enforces certain ground rules of investing. These could have a set of rules defining the investments such as there must be at least 15 or 20 stocks with no less than X% of the total portfolio, etc. Such rules define a framework that ensures that the portfolio stays diversified and safe from shocks that may hit individual stocks or sectors. Individuals who manage their own stock investing would rarely have the knowledge or discipline to do all this. Another advantage is being able to invest with small amounts. If you try to build a diversified portfolio with stocks by buying them directly, you’ll need a large sum of money to begin with. In mutual funds, you can start off by owning the same with a few thousand rupees.
 
 Then there’s one advantage that results in higher—in the long term, much higher—returns in equity mutual funds. All equity portfolios need some buying or selling as individual stocks become more or less desirable. If you are trading stocks yourself, these transactions may mean a tax liability.
 
 However, in an equity mutual fund, this trading is done by the fund manager inside the fund. There’s a further multiplier to the tax saved because the money stays available as an investment and thus gains more. For long term investments that compounds over years. That’s a long and persuasive list, and if you are not convinced, you can still go ahead and invest in stocks directly. Perhaps you will be among the small minority who succeed.
 
 The author has written on personal finance for more than two decades. He is founder and CEO of Value Research
 
