KOLKATA: Before long, one can travel up the Hooghly in luxury on a   procured from Thailand by city-based river cruise operator Vivada. The Jaladuta – I is now moored at the Millennium Park jetty (also known as the   of India jetty) on   and will start operations soon. Chief minister   is likely to launch its maiden voyage.

 “This is a luxury vessel that can accommodate a small group for journeys to places of interest along the river. A religious group has also assured us that it will charter the catamaran for trips to places like Mayapur and Nabadwip. There are also people interested in hiring it for a cruise to  . On the way, they can catch the sights on the banks of the Hooghly. We are also sure that the vessel will be hired for short trips closer to Kolkata,” a company source said.
 
 The tourism potential of the Hooghly has been largely unexplored. There are several places of interest on either bank and high-end tourists, including those from abroad, have shown keen interest in taking river cruises. Several medium-sized cruise vessels have already started plying on the river. Some of them even go up to locations like Varanasi. Such high-end cruises are largely patronized by foreigners. In the last few years, the city’s waterfront has also witnessed the arrival of two luxury yachts. One of these belongs to a star hotel in Kolkata and is used by guests. The other one belongs to a real estate firm and customers can use it on special occasions.
 
 “There is tremendous potential for such cruises. People are ready to pay for comfort. The Hooghly has its own heritage and the banks look very pretty from mid-river. This isn’t a very large vessel and there aren’t any plans to run regular services. We shall use it for charters. In this way, the vessel can be maintained better,” the official added.
 
 A catamaran has two hulls and is comparatively more stable than mono-hulled vessels. Catamarans are also more manoeuvrable and hydrodynamic as water flows freely in between the two hulls. Another important factor is that the hulls require no ballast and ride higher in the water than other boats. This gives catamarans the capability to move in shallow waters as well. At the same time, unlike flat-bottomed vessels, catamarans can achieve high speeds. 
 
 This is, however, not the first time Kolkata has got a vessel such as this. Nearly 20 years ago, the M V Rishi Aurobindo (Silverjet) was brought in for regular services between Kolkata and Haldia. It turned out to be a loss-making venture as there was little patronage and was later shifted to Haldia.
 
