HYDERABAD: The availability of cash at ATMs has worsened in many parts of the country with Hyderabad facing the brunt of the crisis. Banking sources say for the first time since demonetisation, ATMs attached to headquarters of regional branches here, including  , have not been loaded over the past few days.

 Detailing the nightmare that locals have been undergoing, a survey conducted by citizen engagement platform LocalCircles also revealed that 83% of residents who visited ATMs in the last week could not find a working machine. Not only is the city worst affected, but adding to concerns is the fact that other cities facing a similar crisis are not remotely as hit as Hyderabad. Pune with 69% people not being able to find working ATMs and Faridabad with 63% were the only places that came close to being as badly of as Hyderabad.
 
 While ATMs have been running dry, news that the ones at local headquarters too do not have cash indicated a major issue, say managers of top public banks. The crisis at the headquarters is being faced by seve ral banks including the   (both AP and Telangana circles at Abids and Koti); SBI Connect ATM, within the premises of RBI, at Lakdi-ka-Pul;   at Lakdi-ka-Pul; Indian Bank at Himayatnagar;   at Somajiguda. The crisis has hit the main branches of private big banks such as HDFC at lo cations such as   and Lakdi-ka-Pul.
 
 “The situation would have eased if there hadn't been such a big gap between old notes deposited and new currency brought into circulation,“ S Venakata Ramaiah, bank employees' union leader, said. The cash crunch has been attributed to reasons including high with drawals towards end of financial year. “Usually, there is a spike in supply of currency notes to meet higher demand around this time. This year, there was no increase in supply,“ a bank manager said. A top executive, with a cash logistics firm, said, “The cash supply needed last month in ATMs was not even met in the fourth week.“
 
 RBI puzzled, but AP better placed
 
 The cash situation in ATMs has left the RBI puzzled. While nearly '1.4 lakh crore was pumped in both states, officials say it is surprising to see the ATMs go dry. Sources say AP has been able to manage better as the government there able to convince the RBI to get supply from Dewas printing press in addition to Mysuru press.
 
