LUCKNOW: Focussing on its tested Muslim-Yadav (MY) formula, the   has given tickets to 56 Muslims and 26 Yadavs in the first list of 208 candidates announced on Friday. 

 The list released by party's national president Akhilesh Yadav has most of the 38 names, including Shivpal Yadav from Jaswantnagar in Etawah, recommended by SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. Akhilesh's focus on Muslim candidates gains significance since Mulayam had said recently that there was a perception that UP CM was not pro-Muslim. SP, which had fielded 80 Muslim candidates in 2012 polls, plans to match the count of 97 Muslim candidates fielded by the BSP this time. The party has also given tickets to 23 Thakurs and 11 Brahmins.
 
 However, Akhilesh has not given tickets to two candidates recommended by Mulayam. They are SP MLA from Bidhuna in Auraiya Ashish Yadav, who is son of Mulayam's aide and chairman of   Ramesh Yadav, and Shivpal confidant and SP MLA from Etawah Raghuraj Shakiya. In all, 21 sitting MLAs did not make it to the list announced on Friday.
 
 Akhikesh aide MLA Pawan Pandey has being given ticket from his hometown Ayodhya. Pandey replaces his nephew Ashish Pandey whose candidature was declared in the list released by Mulayam in December. Akhilesh has, however, fielded Ashish's father and Mulayam loyalist Jai Shankar Pandey from Katehri assembly seats in adjoining Ambedkarnagar.
 
 Another Mulayam recommendation set aside is that of Rakesh Verma from Ramnagar in Barabanki. He has been replaced by Akhilesh loyalist and minister Arvind Singh Gope. Rakesh was given ticket from Kaiserganj but he has turned down the offer and is planning to contest from Ramnagar as an independent.
 
 SP MP Naresh Agrawal's son Nitin Agrawal has been fielded from Hardoi, while   and his son Abdullah Azam will be the SP candidates from Rampur Khas and Suar assembly seats in Rampur, respectively. Similarly, SP leader Waqar Shah's wife Ruab Saeda and son Yasir Shah have been given tickets from Bahraich (main) and Matera. 
 
