MYSURU:  , 58, the  , was found hanging at his official quarters on Wednesday.The   officer who was appointed to the post nearly a year ago left behind a note saying he was facing severe work pressure and was unhappy as he failed to get a transfer.

 The taluk, represented by PWD minister HC Mahadevappa, is plagued with illegal sand mining along the Cauvery. The tahsildar is suspected to have been under pressure from the mining mafia. Revenue officials, however, said Shankaraiah wasn't keeping well. A section of BJP workers in the taluk staged a protest demanding a probe into Shankaraiah's death, saying he was an upright officer. Additional SP N Rudramuni said Shankaraiah may have hanged himself on Tuesday night but the tragedy came to light only the next morning when group D staff noticed him hanging at the Kabini quarters. He had not eaten dinner on Tuesday. SP Ravi D Channannanavar said the tahsildar's driver alerted cops who then forcibly entered his residence. Shankaraiah was hanging from a ceiling fan. In a note he left behind, Shankaraiah wrote of work pressure as well as family commitments as reasons for taking the extreme step, the SP said, adding that investigations were under way to determine the cause.
 
 “His death note indicated he was unhappy as his efforts to get a transfer were in vain,“ the additional SP said.
 
 Shankaraiah, who belonged to Mandya district, used to travel between Mandya and his workplace in Mysuru but often stayed in the quarters owing to work.
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep said Shankaraiah was not well and had recently taken two weeks' leave in May. Shankaraiah is survived by his wife Pushpalatha, an advocate, and three children -two sons and a daughter. His daughter's wedding was planned in September.
 
 The eldest son is an engineer while the younger was pursuing an MBBS degree. Before his posting in T Narasipur, Shankaraiah was tahsildar of Pandavapura taluk.
 
 His body was handed over to his family after an autopsy at MMCRI mortuary.
 
