Nagpur: Probably for the first time in the state, the fine techniques of ‘garbha sanskar’ was imparted to women cops. They were told how to handle pregnancy in a better way while on duty. The 3-day workshop was held at N-COPS excellence centre at Sadar earlier in the month. Around 56 working cops attended the workshop and experienced the change. The idea of the workshop came from economic offence wing (EoW) DCP Shweta Khedkar who now plans to hold such camps after hearing the heart-wrenching grievances of women cops who suffered miscarriages while heading towards crime spot in the police van. Khedkar put up a proposal before commissioner of police K Venkatesh who too very supportive. The team of five experts guided the cops on different topics which included medicinal plant, healthy diet and stress management. Naturopathy doctor Aparna Yegaonkar said women cops have mental and physical stress too, hence, “they need special caring and a routine chart which they will have to compulsorily follow”. Kavita Korde (35), a police constable at the Lakadganj police station, was a “transformed” person after the camp. She said these days, even women cops have to go to the mortuary, murder spots and many weird places in emergencies. “I used to wonder what my baby would learn if I attended such depressive places. Negative thoughts have occupied my mind. But after undergoing the workshop, I came up with the thought we too can enjoy these days. We learnt yogasan which should be performed in early hours for effective results. Experts provided us diet charts too,” Korde told TOI. Ankita Kulkarni (28), who is posted at the police headquarters, claimed she used to get restless because of the “environment at the police station”. When she conceived for the first time, Kulkarni could never manage a proper diet and it made her weak. But now she handles the situation fearlessly. “We too have all relevant facilities but being a cop, the job is quite tough and we received fine techniques of ‘garbha sanskar,” added Kulkarni. Khedkar said it would be very obvious if any women cop would panic in such tough times while working for several hours continuously. “Being in the police department, we are obliged to stay alert on duty hours but we cannot ignore our health in these months,” she said. PI of Bharosa cell Shubhda Sankhe said staffers were instructed to cooperate with women cops who too would deploy for ‘in office’ task. 