Surat: Tender for world-class railway station at Surat has got once again delayed. This is fourth consecutive time when the ministry of railways has deferred the date for issuing tender for inviting proposals from interested parties for the development of Multi Modal Transportation Hub (MMTH) at Surat railway station.  Earlier, the first date for the tender was announced as January 15, then it was changed to January 31 and again deferred to February 15. Now, the ministry of railways has declared a new date for floating of the tender, i.e., March 3. Railway minister Suresh Prabhu, who visited the Diamond City on February 5, said the work for the development of a world-class railway station at Surat has been put on fast track. He said the tender process for the MMTH project will begin from February 15.  Prabhu stated, “Developing a world-class railway station at Surat is the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Things are moving very fast for the MMTH project in Surat. It took me just one hour to sanction the 90-year lease for the railway land for this project. The tender for the MMTH development will be floated on February 15.” Sources said Prabhu twice visited Surat during his stint as the railway minister. “There are some technical issues, which need to be sorted out before floating of the tender,” said a railway officer.  Indian Railways through IRSDC, Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Limited (GSRTC) and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will jointly develop a state-of-the-art MMTH at Surat railway station on design, built finance operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis.  The project broadly includes redevelopment of railway station, redevelopment of GSRTC bus terminal on international standard, providing east-west road connectivity, development of common facilities and commercials etc. The project will be implemented under a joint venture special purpose vehicle (SPV), which is under formation. IRSDC on behalf of SPV has invited request for qualification (RFQ) from interested developers and operators to pre-qualify the applicants for further request for proposal (RPF) bidding stage. Around 30 national and international firms have qualified in the RFQ and RPF bidding. These companies will enter into e-tendering process to qualify for the project.