NAGPUR: The   (GMCH) and the   (IGGMC) together could bring as many as 170 more post graduates seats in various clinical and non-clinical subjects in medicine in city. These include 127 seats of IGGMC and 43 seats of  .

 Both the colleges have sent their proposal to the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) recently. DMER has asked all the 16 government medical colleges (GMCs) in the state to submit this information so that it can further hand it over to the   (MCI). GTCI has revised and liberalized the teacher-student ratio few months back and now each professor can have three students, each associate professor (with 3 years of experience on the post) can have two students and lecturer (with 8 years of experience). 
 
 Dr Prakash Wakode, joint director DMER told TOI that the possibilities of this increase in the PG seats comes from the increased teacher ratio permitted by the MCI. “It is not necessary that the proposals from the GMCs may be accepted in toto unless the colleges have quoted the increase based on the availability of beds in their hospitals and the units available in each subject,” he said.
 
 Dr A Niswade, the GMCH dean told TOI that the college had sent the proposal to the DMER on January 23 in reply to their query dated January 21 this year. GMCH has asked for an increase 36 seats for GMCH and 7 seats for SSH in eight clinical two in prepreclinicald para-clinical subjects. The break-up of these seats includes seven in general medicine, five seats in general surgery, five seats in anaesthesia, two in paediatrics, two in chest and TB, three obstetrics and gynaecology in clinical subjects and two and six seats each in pharmacology and community medicine in non-clinical subjects.
 
 Dr  , the IGGMC dean told TOI that IGGMC seats (127) includes 58 clinical and 69 non clinical subjects. The break up of clinical subjects include eight seats in general medicine, two seats in skin, five in psychiatry, two in TB and chest medicine, four in paediatrics, six in OBGY, five in general surgery, three in ENT, five in ophthalmology, four seats each in orthopaedics and aneanaesthesiad three seats in radiology.
 
 
