PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday sought the Gaya district administration’s report within four weeks on action taken to shut down illegal power loom units in Manpur.

 The court passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Santosh Kumar. Santosh’s counsel Ashok Kumar, who appeared before the bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice A K Upadhyay, said at least 25,000 illegal power loom units are functional in Gaya’s Manpur town despite the state government’s direction to close them.
 
 “Since the power loom units are creating water, air, noise and soil pollution, the   (BSPCB) and the industries department had ordered their closure in 2016. The district administration, however, is yet to take any concrete action,” Ashok said, adding the BSPCB on Friday submitted a counter affidavit in the court stating that it had asked the Gaya district administration to remove the illegal power loom units.
 
 Illegal sand mining: While hearing a PIL filed by one Suryakant Singh, the Patna high court on Friday granted four weeks’ time to state government to reply on illegal sand mining in Kishanganj district. Singh’s counsel Dinu Kumar said one Mohammad Israel, who was granted licence for sand mining in a particular area in Kishanganj district from 2015 to 2019, started extracting sand from prohibited areas. 
 
 “Though a three-member committee of mines department found allegations against Israel true,   district magistrate Pankaj Dixit is yet to cancel the mining licence of Israel,” the lawyer said. The petitioner has urged the court to order a CBI inquiry into the case.
 
 Soil scam: The Patna high court, while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Manibhushan Pratap Sengar in connection with alleged soil scam involving   chief Lalu Prasad’s family, granted four weeks’ time to several respondents in the case, including the state government, to file counter affidavits. The case pertains to excavation of soil from a mall site which was later sold to Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park when Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap was the environment and forest minister. The soil was excavated from a two-acre plot, along the busy Bailey Road in  , owned by   which contracted Meridian Construction (India) Limited, owned by RJD’s Sursand MLA Syed Abu Dojama, to build a shopping mall at the site.
 
 
