CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister   on Wednesday sought a hardened stand by India against   following the mutiliation of  , including one from Tarn Taran, adding that country needs a full-time defence minister. 

 “India’s response should be clear and unequivocal.” He stressed that India needs to elevate counter strategy for   with a full-time defence minister. “India needs to build its defences, especially with China making inroads through land and sea. Our weaponisation has to improve if we are to counter the various cross-border threats effectively and we need a full time defence minister for all this,” he said. Interestingly, a couple of weeks ago, Amarinder had sought permission from the Centre to sell power to Pakistan following a favourable report by IIM Ahmedabad.
 
 However, he minced no words when it came to taking on Pakistan. “We should stop being a gentleman’s army. If they (Pakistan) cut one of our heads, we should cut three of theirs,” said Amarinder, who was part of the army during the 1965 India-Pakistan war. The CM regretted he could not attend the funeral of martyr Naib Subedar Paramjit Singh in Tarn Taran because of a foot injury. “I had assigned a cabinet minister to visit the family, along with three party MLAs. I would be going to meet the martyr’s family soon,” he said. 
 
 Amarinder also rallied behind the Army officer Major Gogoi over his controversial 'human shield' action during Kashmir elections, saying the officer was being pelted with stones and what he did in the circumstances was absolutely correct. "Instead of being patted on the back, he is being hounded for saving his men" he said.
 
 In the wake of Chhattisgarh incident, Amarinder also took on CRPF, saying its personnel are not trained properly. “Considering the worst Naxal attack last week, CRPF men are not trained properly and did not have sufficient firing experience to tackle such situations,” he said. “CRPF needs to look into the matter and address the various concerns affecting the force,” he said. On a personal note he said that “if a war-like situation develops in the country, all political parties, cutting party lines, should come together against the common enemy.” 
 
 The CM also voiced his opinion on last week’s threats by pro-Khalistanis to him in Surrey in British Columbia. “If they have the guts, they should come and speak here instead of misleading people with unsubstantiated statements elsewhere.” The Centre has already registered a protest. Indian high commission in Canada’s Ottawa has lodged a formal complaint to global affairs office in Canada.
 
 On the EVM tampering issue, Amarinder who had recently taken a different line from his party said Akalis would have won if rigging happened. "So much of testing occurred and the systems are foolproof. We cant go back to ballot papers," he had said.
 
 
