Shimla: Himachal Pradesh government submitted a two-page report to governor Acharya Devvrat on Friday on the gang rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl in Kotkhai, Shimla district. In the report submitted by chief secretary V C Pharka, the state government has informed the governor about steps taken by it in the case and assured him of taking “strict action” against the accused.

 On July 19, the governor had sought a report from the state government about action taken by it in the case and kept a two-day limit. In his letter written to the chief secretary on Wednesday, the governor had described the incident as a “very sensitive issue which has hurt the sentiments of the people of state”. He said the death of a person related to the incident in police custody had made the case more serious and sensitive.
 
 Professor Shashikant Sharma, advisor to governor, confirmed that they had got the report. “The state government has informed us about forming a special investigation team headed by the IGP (southern range),” he said. 
 
 He said the state government had claimed in the report that police officials from Kotkhai police station had been suspended, while some others were transferred. In the report, the government has also attached the letter of chief minister written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding CBI to probe this case. 
 
 It has also been mentioned that state government had moved an application in the Himachal Pradesh high court, after which the CBI had been directed by the court to probe the case. 
 
 On Thursday, chief minister Virbhadra Singh along with industries minister Mukesh Agnihotri had met Acharya Devvrat at Rajbhawan to apprise him about the steps being taken by government in the case. Virbhadra assured the governor appropriate action.
 
 RTI activist writes to PM
 
 An RTI activist has written to the Prime Minister, Himachal Pradesh governor Acharya Devvrat, and secretary of the Delhi department of personnel and training, and Union home secretary to seek his explanation, demanding an explanation from deputy commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur about the action he took in the capacity of a district magistrate after getting to know about the Kotkhai gang rape and murder. He claimed that the that deputy commissioner should be asked to explain why he did not visit the site of incident once during the entire period.
 
 
