The story of G Saubhagya Lakshmi, 70, has no proper beginning, middle and, hopefully, end. 

 As her stream of consciousness flows back and forth in time, her 30-year-old daughter Jyothy, wheelchair-bound because of cerebral palsy, listens patiently, an occasional smile lighting up her face as our eyes meet. Strands of her long hair make her twitch her brows sometimes but the ever attentive mother rushes to her rescue.
 
 It is not often that they have visitors, so Lakshmiyamma has made kesari today. “My daughter is an even better host than me,” she says and Jyothy nods in agreement. She can’t speak but utters certain words, especially when excited.
 
 Lakshmi is not too sure of her early life but thinks she was born in Mumbai and lost her mother when she was just a year old. Her dad, a traveller, author and homeopath, brought her up mostly in Thiruvananthapuram. Life was uneventful but joyous till she reached Class VII when her dad passed away, plunging her into deep despair. She even missed school for a few years and confined herself mostly to the puja room.
 After 10th, destiny beckoned in the form of a newspaper ad, calling for nursing trainees at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital. With the help of an uncle who lived in that city, she attended the interview and enrolled for a three-month pre-training, after which she qualified for a three-and-a-half-year course. She found the nurse’s job tailor-made for her. She was devoted, sensitive and honest and became everyone’s darling. Soon, she joined the Thirath Ram Hospital and then worked at the neuro surgery department of the AIIMS as part of a special nursing bureau.
 
 Nursing was more than a profession for her in those days. They would treat a patient like a relative and do everything that was needed, wash clothes or change bed pan or whatever it took. Another realisation then was that she could do justice either to the profession or start a family but not both. So, she spurned the efforts of a few of her dad’s relatives to find her a match. “I saw nurses not being able to spend time or do justice to their families,” she explains.
 During the mid-eighties, a certain disillusionment set in. “For one, I was tired of the insults that were often heaped on nurses despite selfless service. Also, I had this desire to do something different, unique,” says Lakshmi, who joined hands with a Malayali sister called Santhamma and began to work with street children, orphans and spastics. Occasionally, she would do nursing assignments to make ends meet. 
 
 “It was then that I agreed to look after three street children, two of them tribals from Bihar. It was a joy to provide them everything that needed and see them bloom into lovely children,” she reminisces.
 
 Then came the turning point of her life. Lakshmi happened to meet Jyothy, then seven, the eldest daughter of a widow who was working as a domestic help. “Nobody wanted her, neither her family nor the institution that she was being sent to, so I adopted her. She just weighed seven kilos and had a bad ear infection but she was such a charmer and friendly with everyone. She was the best gift I ever got,” says Lakshmi.
 
 Days after a surgery was done on Jyothy to correct her ‘scissor legs’, Lakshmi had an unexpected setback. The eldest of the other three children she was raising, who had not so long ago gone on a two-week vacation to her town in Bihar, was found pregnant. “The situation was not only traumatic but also fraught with risk. Tongues wagged but I escaped misunderstanding because the girl’s aunt was with me then,” says Lakshmi, who returned the three kids to their parents and moved to a smaller house.
 
  “My world shrunk. It was just me and Jyothy and nobody seemed to care about us. I realised that the so-called friendships were all fake,” she says. She tried to work with an NGO called Children of the World and Cheshire Home’s headquarters but helping other children meant less time with Jyothy, who was completely dependent on her.
 
 In 2000, she managed to get a job at the Cheshire Home in Thiruvananthapuram. The salary was meagre but the pull of returning to Kerala was large. “All I brought back from Delhi was Jyothi and 300 books, many of them autographed by OV Vijayan, M Mukundan and other writers,” she says.
  Lakshmi had many skills and it was not hard for her to get jobs or assignments in Kerala, but the problem was always that Jyothy required her fulltime care. Leaving her first job, she stayed for a while at a lodge, not knowing where to go and how to live. “During these days of uncertainty, Vijayettan (writer OV Vijayan) gave me shelter at his house in Kottayam. I can’t describe those days when he was starting to slip into serious illness. He would sit there, holding Jyothy’s hand and watching TV. There would be a silent communication between them.”
 
 Not long afterwards, Mary, an admirer of Vijayan, took her back to Thiruvananthapuram, found her a small, dilapidated house and school for Jyothy. Lakshmi too got a job at an orphanage but the more she spent time with other kids, the more restless Jyothi became. “Used to better circumstances, she would look at me inquiringly why we are living like this,” says Lakshmi. An inquiry to a childline put Lakshmi in touch with a priest in Kottayam and soon, the duo were off to Kottayam, where they lived, rather happily, for a decade.
 
 Lakshmi and her daughter met many litterateurs, artists and other cultural bigwigs. She even penned a book for children called, Dasapushpangalude Koottukari’, and organised many a craft exhibition.
 
 The roller coaster called life then took them to Kanjirappally but this stint didn’t last long. “The terrain was tough where we lived and it was physically taxing to push the wheel chair upto the school,” says Lakshmi. In October 2013, they accepted an offer from Mahadevan, the secretary of the Adarsh Charitable Trust near Thripunithura in Kochi, one of the few good institutions in the state devoted to kids with afflictions such as cerebral palsy and autism.
  For parents of such kids, finding accommodation is their biggest challenge. Many house owners denied them a roof, says Lakshmi, fearing that if the ageing lady were to die, Jyothy would become their liability. The house where they now live seems rather cosy – an NRI had allowed them to stay for free for a year – but once again, they are on notice to shift. Lakshmi has found another house in the vicinity, where Jyothy has the good fortune of half a dozen other children like her to interact with, but the rent is stiff. “Somehow, I am able to meet our expenses, thanks to a few friends, and also because our needs are few. But what children like Jyothy need even more than money is a friendly hug and an affectionate touch.”
 
 The frail but determined lady is forever thinking of how to help Jyothy and other such kids. Doesn’t she want anything for herself? “Well, mothers like me have one problem. We can’t leave our kids even for an hour or two, if we want to go shopping or even to a funeral. I am thinking of setting up a Pakalveedu where these kids can be taken care of for a few hours during the day while the mothers can go in peace to meet a relative or even to the ration shop. I have written to Kudumbasree authorities for assistance.”
 
 
