PATNA: The Bihar   (BVM) has launched a fresh drive to recruit 542 experts for various departments of the state government. 

 The positions up for grabs include   (PMU) lead, IT expert, accounts, finance, statistics and legal experts and development economist. The recruitments are being made through agencies roped in by the BVM.
 
 The process of inviting applications for 93 positions began on May 5. In a fresh move on May 15, applications were invited for another 108 positions. 
 
 Details of the recruitment process along with online application procedure are available on the BVM’s — http://www.bvmrecruitment.com/. Ever since the BVM recruitments began in February-March last year, they have been hyped for the fat salaries they bring.
 
 For instance, the monthly remuneration being offered to experts in various fields, including panchayati raj institutions, medicines procurement, labour law reforms, community meal, mass campaign and public relations, is Rs 1.56 lakh. Similarly, monthly salary of Rs 84,750 is being offered for 42 positions of department PMU lead.
 
 All the recruitments will be made on an 11-month contract basis. There’s 35% horizontal reservation in each category of the jobs for women.
 
 Though the interview panel for final selection of candidates will comprise senior government officials and industry experts, the shortlisting of candidates for interview will be done by two recruitment agencies, namely Mancer Consulting Services Pvt Ltd and People Strong HR Services Pvt Ltd. 
 
 “While the process of receiving applications for the first round of interviews has already been completed, the applications for second round will be received till May 22. The corresponding interviews are likely to be held in the last week of this month or first week of June. Applications for recruitments in the third round will be invited in June,” said a BVM official, wishing anonymity.
 
 The first phase of BVM recruitments for hiring 100 experts for the positions of team leader and associate was held in February- March last year. However, only 24 applicants could be hired. Of them, only 16 joined.
 
 A brainchild of Bihar CM Nitish’s Kumar’s adviser and poll strategist Prashant Kishor, BVM has been set up under the Society Registration Act, 1860 and approved by the state cabinet. The main function of this quasi-government body is to help the state government achieve the set targets of Nitish’s “seven resolves”.
 
 
