AHMEDABAD: The   (ACB) on Wednesday night arrested two officials of the state government’s commercial tax department after they accepted Rs 4.5 lakh in cash from a Vatva-based industry owner. The complainant had earlier paid Rs 1.5 lakh to the accused. The third accused in the case is yet to be nabbed, police said.

 Police officials said the complainant had approached the ACB on Tuesday with a complaint against BS Chauhan, a  , and JP Modi and PH Bhatia, both sales tax inspectors. According to the complaint, Chauhan and others had recently conducted a search on the complainant’s premises and had claimed that the industry owner had Rs 46 lakh pending in tax arrears and subsequent charges.
 
 “The   tried to explain to them that the firm they were talking about had changed hands and had eventually closed about eight years ago. In the process, whatever taxes and charges had arisen, he had paid it duly,” an ACB official said. 
 
 “He has no pending tax liability with the department but the commercial tax officials maintained that if the industry owner failed to pay the amount, his unit would be closed down and his bank accounts frozen. To settle the matter, they had demanded Rs 20 lakh,” the ACB official said.
 
 The man told the tax officials that he was in no position to pay such a huge sum. The officials then started bargaining and finally settled at Rs 6 lakh. On Tuesday, they insisted on getting Rs 3 lakh after which the complainant had paid Rs 1.5 lakh in cash. On the same day, the businessman approached the ACB with the complaint and narrated the case along with relevant documents.
 
 “A trap was organized at a tax consultant’s office in Jashodanagar near CTM on Wednesday night where the complainant met Chauhan and Modi with Rs 4.5 lakh cash. The duo talked about the case and asked for the cash after which the money changed hands. The two were caught from the spot and a search for the third accused is on,” an ACB official said.
 
 GST SURVEY AND AFTER
 
 Sources said that before the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST), the commercial tax department had carried out a survey of the firms that had defaulted in paying taxes over the years. The department then launched a drive in which the Vatva-based unit had come on its radar. ACB officials don’t rule out the possibility that there may be other similar cases for which investigation will be carried out.
 
 
