PUNE: The   boasts of not having any  . However, 350 people   due to trespassing in 2016, data shows.

 While mulling a major awareness campaign to bring down the numbers, senior railway officials said that the aim was to plan the campaigns in such a way that people think twice before trespassing.
 
 “Last year, the number of people dying due to trespassing was 350, which is almost one person every day. The figure before that was a whopping 450, but constant efforts of the railways has resulted in bringing the number down. However, it further needs to be reduced. We have plans, but support from different agencies and non-government organisations and the general public is required,” an official told TOI, adding that they want to bring the number of casualties down by at least 100 by this year end.
 
 The official said that the maximum number of accidents were taking place in the suburban areas between Lonavla and Kolhapur. 
 
 “There are different ways in which trespassing happens. Many people tend to break or cut through the boundary wall and cross tracks to reach their destination faster. While there are no unmanned crossings in the Pune division, the fact that so many people are dying due to trespassing is a matter of great concern,” the official pointed out.
 
 Railway sources said they had identified many spots in the division prone to trespassing and said that banners and posters in various languages could be put up at these areas to deter people from crossing.
 
 “Small groups, consisting of employees with different private companies, can be formed and used to spread awareness. The railways can approach these companies and request them to lend their employees for an hour or so for the cause. An   official may also be posted at these spots to stop trespassing. Volunteers from NGOs may also be stationed near the official to spread awareness on the danger,” an official said. 
 
 The campaign is also considering using names and pictures of the victims of accidents to further increase awareness, the official said. 
 
 “People have to understand they are putting themselves at major risk by trespassing just to save some time. Many even pass through the track even after seeing an approaching train, thinking that they can get through fast enough. Many time, a shift from focus for just a second results in tragedy,” another railway source said.
 
