Mangaluru: Karthik S Kateel, 24, a  , who perfected a unique   for women’ is on his way to reach the mark of training a lakh women in self-defence.

 He has evolved five techniques which women can use when attacked by a stranger or a group of people without using the usual – kick, block and punch techniques of martial arts.
 
 In the last two years, Karthik has demonstrated this technique in 357 institutions across the state with 95,000 students being the direct beneficiaries. His first student was his mother Shobhalatha. Karthik says it is distressing to read news about women being harassed or molested frequently. “I decided to do something to prevent such incidents. First, I taught these techniques to my mother and when I was convinced these techniques were effective, I decided to spread the knowledge among the students,” he added.
 
 The appreciation that followed after police, doctors, academicians and women students felt the usefulness of the simple techniques is making Karthik reach a wider audience. “I don’t have numbers in my head and I am not aspiring to create a record. That will happen in its course of time. But the priority is that all women should be able to defend or ward off an attack by a molestor,” said Karthik.
 
 But his major grouse has been that he is not able to reach government institutions where there are vulnerable children, girls and women. “To put it bluntly, there are costs involved in going to a place and demonstrating it. I am not making money in this but I want the costs of travel and accommodation, if any, to be reimbursed. The government institutions say they don’t have funds nor they allow to get a meagre donation from students. This is a stumbling block,” rues Karthik.
 
 In spite of these constraints, Karthik says he is happy that few cases related to harassments have been resolved as his students confided in him after gaining confidence practising the techniques. “The techniques were choreographed on the basis of psychology and real life incidents,” said Karthik. The techniques are so simple that it can be mastered easily and applied by an 11-year-old girl to a 60-year-old woman.
 
 His letter for funds to Prime Minister   got directed to the Karnataka chief secretary. But he has not received any word from the state government so far.
 
