
 
  
 
  This CD is just a compilation of TV   reports in the past. The complaint has been lodged by   workers who are frustrated. I will advise SP that elections cannot be won like this. Yeh ticket kya pehli baar di hai (Have I been given a ticket for the first time)? I am the sitting MLA from Sardhana. People in the opposition who are raising this controversy are in fact the ones trying to do polarisation. In entire western UP, and for that matter in UP, communal clashes and riots happened again and again in the last five years under the SP rule. In Sardhana, not even a stone was thrown in the last five years. This is the way Hindus and Muslims stay peacefully and harmoniously in my constituency. Yes, I fought for the people during Muzaffarnagar (riots) for the sake of saving bahu-beti ki izzat (honour of  )... seena thok ke ladai ladi (I fought openly). Some people did not like it and put me in jail. If fighting for sake of bahu-beti ki izzat, I will do it till end of my life… 887 boys are in jail for four long years now, falsely implicated for the Muzaffarnagar riots… has SP government thought of them? I have promised them that if our government comes, I will ensure they are released.
  
  
 
  It is not a fake issue. Kairana is, in fact, a big issue in western UP and we will take it up aggressively during the campaign. If our party comes to power, we will not only stop such exodus of people but also bring back people who have migrated from Kairana.
  
  
 
  It is a misconception that the Muslim vote is with the BSP. Muslims are with the BSP to some extent, to some extent with the SP, a few with the   and some are with the BJP too. In fact, on the issue of   and the stance taken by the Centre, many Muslim women are appreciative of BJP and will vote for us. I defeated   from Sardhana in 2012 by 12,000 votes. This time BSP has given ticket to his son  . I will defeat him by 50,000 votes.SP, a few with the Congress and some are with the BJP too. In fact, on the issue of triple talaq and the stance taken by the Centre, many Muslim women are appreciative of BJP and will vote for us. I defeated Haji Yaqub Qureshi from Sardhana in 2012 by 12,000 votes. This time BSP has given ticket to his son Imran Qureshi. I will defeat him by 50,000 votes.
  
  
 
  There will be no impact of this in western UP or UP. People have made up their minds in favour of BJP in western UP. SP ka yahan sab khatm hai (SP is finished here) and Congress does not even exist here. RLD has influence over a few seats and nothing more. In 2014, there was one-sided vote for the BJP in west UP and this will be repeated in assembly polls. 
