Panaji/Nagpur:   enthusiasts in the state may finally have something to cheer as the state government may now run out of excuses to deny affiliation to the Goa Basketball Association ( ).
 
  Two associations, each claiming they have the right to govern the sport here, continue to lock horns, and even the GBA is reported to have two factions; not surprising because the   ( ) now has two factions.
  
  The Sports Authority of Goa and Goa Olympic Association (GOA) has in the past backed the Association of Goan Basketball (AGB) headed by Dinesh Sinari. But the GBA, headed by Fr   de Souza, is set to be granted affiliation after the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) granted recognition to the Basketball Federation of India faction recognized by the World governing body (Fiba) on Thursday.
  
  In simple terms, the BFI – now recognised by IOA – has Fr Ralin as the associate secretary and GBA secretary   as member of the executive committee.
  
  “There is no reason why we will now be denied affiliation. We are all relieved that such a long impasse has finally ended,” said a senior GBA official.
  
  In 2015, the BFI became a divided house with two factions staking claim to the running of the federation. Two separate elections were held, two sets of office-bearers took charge and confusion prevailed.
  
  The battle to seize control of BFI saw two factions conduct separate elections on March 27 and 28, 2015 in Bengaluru and Pune respectively. While Karnataka’s K Govindraj, the earlier senior vice-president in the BFI, was named president in Bengaluru, the president of Maharashtra State Basketball Association, Poonam Mahajan, was elected president at the Pune AGM.
  
  While the IOA on April 17 granted recognition to the Mahajan faction, Fiba recognized the Bengaluru elections, allowing the Govindraj group to take charge of the Indian federation.
  
  On Thursday, the IOA took their earlier recognition — given to the Mahajan faction — back and granted affiliation to the Govindraj group.
  
  In a letter dated July 13, 2017, a copy of which is with TOI, the IOA general secretary Rajeev Mehta said, “In accordance with the directives of the International Basketball Federation (Fiba) and honouring the rule 29 of Olympic Charter, the IOA grants affiliation to the BFI with K Govindraj as president and Chander Mukhi Sharma as secretary general.”
  
  
  
