NEW DELHI: Installation of   has been dismal in the leading metros, a study by   said. This, despite the policies and net-metering guidelines in place across several states.

 The study ‘Indian cities slacking on   solar’ highlights how even the subsidy by the union ministry has not helped the process.
 
 The capital, which presently offers generation-based subsidy and the net-metered connections, has failed to see a large uptake in the residential sector.
 
 Delhi’s total solar potential is 2,500 MW with a residential potential of 1,250 MW. The official target aims to reach 1,000 MW worth installations by 2020 and 2,000 MW by 2025. However, as of December 2016, only 35.9 MW has been installed of which, 3 MW were residential installations in March 2016.
 
 Mumbai, which has a potential of 1,720 MW has only 5 MW worth installations done till now. Tamil Nadu has less than 2 MW as against the target of 350 MW, the report said. The union ministry had earmarked 40 GW target by 2022, however, by December 2016, installations had just crossed 1 GW.
 
 “Despite 30% capital subsidy, and a range of state incentives and schemes, rooftop solar is yet to take off in the same manner as large-scale solar. However, this does not mean India should lower its ambitious targets, as some have suggested. Rather, the government must step up and play a more proactive role in encouraging rooftop installations. This can be via innovative financing schemes, aggregating demand and incentivizing city and state governments,” said Pujarini Sen, Climate and Energy Campaigner,   India.
 
  A poll conducted by Greenpeace suggested significant public interest in adopting rooftop solar panels. Close to 55% of the 812 survey respondents expressed interest in investing into it.
 
 “There is still a widespread perception that installation of rooftop solar panels needs a large investment, and people are not always aware of the financial incentives available. If central and state governments are serious about boosting solar, they must do a better job of reaching out to resident welfare associations and community groups to encourage people to shed their inhibitions and embrace rooftop solar,” says Sen. 
 
 
