NAGPUR: With just seven weeks remaining for the Goods and   to come into effect, Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) and   had organized learning session   of the region at VIA Hall,  , on Friday.

 Manufacturers, service providers, exporters, importers and entrepreneurs will be taught basic concepts underlying the   at the intensive training programme. Above 200 persons from the region have registered for the session.
 
 Maharashtra sales tax department is leaving no stone unturned in its efforts to face new challenges under GST regime and provide best services to the existing VAT dealers for smooth and hassle-free migration to the new era, said PK Agrawal, joint commissioner of sales tax (admin).
 
 Agrawal said that Nagpur division has around 53,000 VAT dealers out of whom 90% have enrolled on GSTN portal and switched over successfully. Around 4,500 crore is the revenue collection from city while top 100 dealers of the state contribute around 60% of total tax revenue. He said, “We are reaching out to taxpayers in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli, explaining to them legal and procedural aspects and the compliance expected from them under this law. The response from trade and industry is phenomenal.”
 
 ‘One nation one tax’ GST will sweep away all the concepts which are ruling the field of taxation since a very long period, said Ashok Chandak of VIA Taxation and Corporate Law Forum. “When the conceptual change occurs, classroom teachings become essential. So, this clinic will help business persons know where they stand and give them a chance to develop. It’s a preventive measure to avoid interruption in their trade,” he added.
 
 Chief commissioner of customs, central excise and service tax AK Pandey highlighted the benefits of GST and said, “It’s a win-win situation for the entire country and would benefit all stakeholders of industry, government and the consumer. It will provide a major boost to the ‘Make in India’ initiative and make our goods and services competitive in national as well as international markets. It will bring better cash flow and more transparency to indirect tax laws since the supply chain will be taxed at every stage. GST is largely technology driven and will reduce human interface to a great extent.”
 
 IRS commissioner of central excise Nagpur-II Ashish Chandan, secretary of VIA Suhas Buddhe and vice-president of VIA Omprakash Bagdia were seated on the dais.
 
