BENGALURU: Apartment dwellers, who are up in arms against the authorities mandating them to   (STPs), said the BWSSB is primarily responsible for the pollution of Bellandur Lake as sewage water released by the buildings is only 2.8% of the total sewage entering it.

 The   (BWSSB) recently made it mandatory for apartment complexes with more than 50 units to instal the plants.
 The Bangalore Apartments' Federation (BAF), with 130 apartment associations as members and representing over 20,000 units, said the government and   in their report to the National Green Tribunal two weeks ago, had stated that 755 buildings were inspected by KSPCB and BWSSB in the Bellandur Lake catchment area. Of these, 390 have STPs while the plants were under construction at 46 complexes.
 
 "The remaining 319 were found not to have STPs, but were connected to the underground drainage (UGD) of BWSSB, which is where the entire city lets out its sewage. Now our contention is, if these 319 apartments connected to the UGD are classified as polluters, it would mean that all citizens of Bengaluru are polluters, as all the sewage of the city is let out into the UGD," BAF said.
 
 "The reality is that BWSSB is the culprit. It should have set up larger centralized STPs at the exit points of the UGD. They have miserably failed in doing this, with 480 MLD of sewage flowing into Bellandur Lake from their network," said  .
 
 "As per the report, the 319 apartments are letting out about 13.66 MLD into the UGD (which is about 2.8% of the overall sewage), with individual houses and smaller buildings, which constitute majority of the population, letting out 466.34 MLD into the UGD (which is about 97.2% of the overall sewage)," he added.
 
 Another BAF member likened the situation to that of a cancer patient treated by a doctor who applies fairness cream on the face to cure the disease. "If cancer does not get cured with this, the doctor keeps applying more cream. This is how our civic agencies are systematically destroying our lakes and the city. It is time for our civic agencies to wake up and address real problems, rather than applying fairness cream." he added.
 'Can't impose STP rule on individuals'
 
 A seni or BWSSB official, on the  , rubbished the argument of the apartments, saying STPs are mandated for apartments as they are bulk generators of sewage. "We cannot impose the STP rule on individual owners as they can't afford it, hence they are brought under the UGD network. If the apartment owners have problems, they can contest the same in any court of law," he added.
 
