CHENNAI: Yet to complete its target of installing 348 toilets, Chennai’s civic body is ambitious about its target to install 1475 more   across the city in the next three years.

 In July 2015, the civic body had announced that by the end of the year, they would install 348 toilets in the city including self-cleaning e-toilets by Eram Scientific Solutions. Cut to 2017, the Corporation has finished installing 313 toilets – 35 short of its target set for 2015.
 
 “It was not a failure to meet the target but the process to get permissions from other bodies that took time – including the highways and roads development company. It is an ongoing process to get the No Objection Certificates,” a senior official from the civic body said of the delay in achieving the target set for 2015.
 
 The official, however, told TOI that the target for the next three years, under the Swachh Bharat Mission, is to build 1575 more toilets including the modular and rental toilets.
 
 “There will be e-toilets, 3S, Prime, and Namma toilets among others that would be installed across the city. Except for e-toilets and 3S toilets, remaining will be maintained by the Corporation,” the official added.
 
 3S toilets will be rental toilets, the official said, adding that these would be installed free of cost and only maintenance charges would be incurred by the Corporation.
 
 Eram Scientific that installed over 220 e-toilets across the city ensures the maintenance of these through its service centres and call centres in the city.
 
 “We have been maintaining the toilets installed in all zones by us and also attending to complaints made via our call centres. The response by people has been good as whoever uses the toilets on a daily basis helps in maintaining by informing us when the toilets need attention,” said Narayanaswami S, director – operations, Eram Scientific P Ltd.
 
 The company, however, is still awaiting the Annual Maintenance Contract ( ) from the Corporation for the current year.
 
 “We are in the process of releasing tenders. The process of maintenance was recently made centralized instead of being taken care of at the zonal level. Till the tenders are raised, the companies that have been taking care of maintenance will continue doing so,” said a senior Corporation official.
 
