BHUBANESWAR: Off-beat optional subjects are slowly gaining ground with science and commerce students of classes XI and XII. Gone are the days when students had no option but to take traditional subjects as their fourth optionals, schools are now providing statistics, electronics, automobile technology, photography, physical education, legal studies, informatics practices, insurance and entrepreneurship to students to choose from. 

 These subjects have the twin benefits of inciting interests of students in addition to broadening their career prospects. 
 
 The career options available to kids these days have changed significantly. "Most are no longer interested in pursuing traditional professions and becoming doctors and engineers. There is a demand for interactive and analytical jobs in the market. Besides, a number of people are switching careers to join new fields or taking up hobbies as their main career instead of what they had been forced to study. So these subjects studied in different combinations help them a lot in future," said Harish Sanduja, principal of  . 
 
 For students in the science stream, apart from traditional subjects like mathematics, physics and chemistry, electronics, statistics and insurance have been popular. "My son is a bit confused about what to study after Class XII. So I suggested that he chooses computer science as an optional so that he can have a lot of options in the IT and ITES sectors later on," said Antaryami Panda, a banker. 
 
 A large number of students are also opting for music, painting, dance, and martial arts as sixth optionals in the CBSE-affiliated schools. "Sanskrit is another subject which fetches marks. Home science and automobile technology are also preferred subjects in many CBSE schools. Students should make right choice of subjects depending on their interests and career prospects," said the principal of   1, A T Mishra. 
 
 Commerce students have a lot of options to choose from, including insurance, legal studies, financial management and entrepreneurship. "Commerce has a lot of scope in almost all fields. Starting from chartered accountancy, marketing, banking, stock exchange, to travel and tourism or even academics, the scope is boundless. There is a lot of demand for financial analysts in all sectors and I want my daughter to study commerce with computer science," said Hitesh Kumar Ondhia, a city parent. 
 
 Sikha Suman, a class XII commerce student awaiting her results took legal studies and music as her extra optional. "I want to pursue a career in law as well as continue with my hobby of music. The subjects have helped me in learning fundamentals," said Sikha.
 
 
