HYDERABAD: Hyderabad currently has the highest number of start-ups registered with the   (DST), said IT secretary  , while unveiling the State Innovation Cell’s latest initiative on Saturday.

 Titled ‘T.CoWork’, the initiative is aimed at bringing all co-working spaces and incubators in the city under one network. Through these spaces, the early stage start-ups will be provided business or strategy mentors, market connection and investor access, according to officials of the innovation cell.
 
 “The state government has already rolled out the innovation policy and is looking for the chief innovation officer. It has set aside huge funds for the same and is looking to make sure there is ground level impact. Hyderabad’s   as a start-up hub is the availability of high-quality infrastructure at low cost and this will be followed even while providing T.CoWork facilities to start-ups,” said Ranjan.
 
 He also stressed on the importance of incubators and co-working spaces along with academic institutions to instil an atmosphere of support to start-ups and push for better innovation.
 
 Ramesh Loganathan, interim chief innovation officer, said, “T.CoWork seeks to continue this collaboration by rolling out shared support, regular monthly meet-ups to build the network and one meeting every half year where start-ups can connect with investors, mentors and industry partners. We also hope to launch workshops once in two months to help start-ups in the idea stage and early stage.”
 
 Pradeep  , president of TiE (The Indus Entrepreneurs) Mentors, who was also present at the event, spoke about providing start-up founders with work atmospheres that will foster creativity. “Vet the founders, their drive, but make sure you do not curb or parrot their enthusiasm,” said Mittal.
 
 According to sources, the State Innovation Cell will soon launch another initiative titled ‘T.Enablers’, which will be one-stop shop for all start-up resources. After a network of community enablers in the start-up community is created, the State Innovation Cell will facilitate the network, maintain the enablers’ directory and facilitate the monthly networking interactions.
 
