NAGPUR: Refusing to entertain a father’s plea for custody of his two US-born sons, the Nagpur family court held that territorial jurisdiction of such cases is limited to only where the minor resides.

 Citing a Delhi High Court verdict, principal judge   clarified that even if a minor is residing with grandparents and parents are living somewhere else, it would be the place of child’s residence which could be considered as territorial jurisdiction to contest custody battles.
 
 “Section 9 of Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, is very specific and gives powers only to the court in whose jurisdiction the minors are living. In view of the bar created by Section 9, the petition for want of territorial jurisdiction can’t be entertained by this court. Hence, it needs to be returned to the petitioner for presentation before the proper court (Ludhiana family court),” the judge held.
 
 The man moved the court for getting sons’ custody under Section 25 of the Act, claiming that his wife and in-laws had stealthily took them to Ludhiana from the city.
 
 He was in the US since 2002 for education and job and entered into a wedlock with a   woman on May 20, 2010. They had two sons, born on April 19, 2011, and April 02, 2014, and both are US citizens. On July 24, 2015, the couple shifted to the city and they admitted elder son to Bhavan’s. However, differences started cropping up between them.
 
 On August 17, 2015, when he and his mother had gone out, the wife allegedly took both sons to her parental home. He then lodged a complaint and filed a case in family court for custody. It was learnt that the wife headed to Washington DC for a job and left both children with her father in Ludhiana.
 
 As the mother was away, her father argued the case stating that the petitioner’s earlier case for divorce and custody filed in the   at Virginia in the US was dismissed on March 29 last year.
 
 He claimed that the man and his mother had tried to forcibly take both sons from Ludhiana after which a police complaint was lodged against them under Sections 365 and 501 of IPC. The case was pending with JMFC there.
 
 The senior citizen pointed out that the elder son was admitted to DAV Public School at Ludhiana in upper KG, while the younger one was studying in a playschool.
 
 Praying for dismissal of plea for want of territorial jurisdiction, the grandfather added that the husband took exemption from the court for going abroad for pursuing MBA and therefore, he can’t look after the sons. His wife had also filed a case under Domestic Violence Act for children’s’ safety and protection.
 
 Citing Allahabad High Court’s order, the judge stated that territorial jurisdiction for the child’s custody was of the court where the child was residing with his mother.
 
 The directives
 
 * Even if the minor is residing with grandparents and parents are living away, it would be place of child’s residence which could be considered as territorial jurisdiction to contest custody battles
 
 * Section 9 of Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, is very specific and gives powers only to the court in whose jurisdiction the minors are living
 
 * In this view, the petition for want of territorial jurisdiction can’t be entertained 
 
 * Petitioner should present it before proper court (Ludhiana family court)
 
