In a Facebook live chat with TimesOfIndia.com,   made some shocking revelations, out of which one was about his co-contestants in the   house, who have been manipulative all the time.
 
  The names of the contestants that   took while calling them manipulative and propagating lies in the house were that of  , Mona Lisa and  . He said that he would definitely want to bring forth the real faces of liars in the open. He said that its first part came in yesterday's (January 1) episode when he asked a forceful question to Manveer. He further said that there are a few more people in the house, who are living a life based on lies.
  
  When asked, who according to him is the most manipulative person in the house, Gaurav named Manu, Mona and   without any hesitation. He said, "I am not saying this because they are friends, but I will differentiate."
  
  
 
  
  "Manu is openly manipulative because he feels that it is the only way of playing the game. He came up to Manveer (who is his best friend on the show) and said that he had gone to his house and met everyone and that everyone was very happy with him, while he hadn't gone to his house and didn't meet anyone. Manveer's family had also come on the show and told him that Manu is manipulating him," he added.
  
  Talking about Manveer, Gaurav said, "Manveer is the second manipulative person, and it will be a surprise for you as you might be thinking that he plays from the heart, but I can prove it to you in thousand instances that he never says anything to anyone's face whom he thinks as a strong competitor. He is just upfront with those who are friends with him in his comfort zone, and then he pokes fun at them behind their back with the others."
  
  "Manveer knows that Manu is using him, and when would Manveer turn that relation upside down will be seen in a week or two weeks time," says Gaurav.
  
  The third most manipulative person in the house according to Gaurav is Mona Lisa. He said, "Mona's way of manipulating others is completely different. She becomes innocent and says that she can't do the task and has to go, but in reality, she is the one to whisper in the ears of Manu and Manveer. She can't be detached with any situation and always forms personal and biased opinions."
  
  
 
  
  
 
