NEW DELHI: Students of   (SOL),  , have written to   (DCW) against a recent circular by Miranda House banning taking of selfies and combing hair in college corridor on Tuesday. The students are demanding a written apology from the college administration.

 Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS), in its memorandum to DCW, alleged that the college, which has been allotted as the study centre, has framed “highly discriminatory and anti-women rules” to “harass women  .”
 
 “Till the issue had not received attention in the media, identity cards of students who wanted to enter the college were being forcibly taken away. Although the Miranda House authorities have withdrawn the notice concerned, they have resorted to collecting the identity cards every time they enter a classroom, which wastes a lot of time,” said Delhi state committee member of KYS, Arti.
 
 A notice had earlier been put up, which has since been removed, which admonished SOL women students for “wasting” time by “modeling” in the corridors, “brushing their hair” and “taking selfies”. While college principal Pratibha Jolly had earlier claimed it to be aimed at ensuring “safety” of students, she later clarified that the notice is only “suggestive” and won’t be imposed on students.
 
 In the memorandum, apart from a written apology, the students’ group also demanded that such “humiliating treatment to SOL students” should stop at the earliest and strict action should be taken against any staff member found misbehaving with students.
 
 Terming the attitude of the college authorities as “highly class-biased and misogynistic”, Arti said, “These students are forced to take admission in correspondence courses of SOL if they fail to achieve the required cut-off marks for DU colleges. These women students come from unprivileged and deprived families, which couldn’t afford to send them to private schools, from where the majority of students in this premier women’s college come. The fact that these students are being subjected to such humiliating treatment by the college administration clearly belies its stated belief in women’s empowerment. The prison-like atmosphere especially put in place on Sundays, creates ample fear in women students, to forego their classes at the college in future.”
 
