Sixteen years ago, when he donned a rustic cloth and trained an amateur cricket team, the British waived off a Gujarat village's land tax. Recently, when he donned a rustic cloth and groomed his two daughters to become wrestling champions, the inspiring film compelled Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi to declare it tax-free. It does seem like every time  , among the highest tax-paying actors of Bollywood, becomes a rural sports coach, he helps you save tax. 

 Last night, though, another coincidence closed the 16-year gap between 'Lagaan' and ' '. At the 62nd Jio   2017, the notorious perfectionist, who last won a Best Actor award for 'Lagaan' in 2002, bagged one this year for his brooding portrayal of a patriarch who grooms his daughters to be wrestling champions in 'Dangal'.
 
 
 
 
 
 Given that the sports biopic based on the Phogat sisters picked up three major awards at the event, the venue could not have been more on point. Held at the Dome at Worli's National Sports Club of India (NSCI)' an indoor stadium where Pro-Kabaddi players have slapped their thighs as their earthy game received a shot of glamour' the event saw 'Dangal' bag both Best Film and Best Director (Nitesh Tiwari) awards. In addition, ' 'Abhishek Chaubey's weighty look at the insurgence of drug abuse in Punjab'too enjoyed some well-deserved spotlight with   winning the Best Actress award and   the Critics Award for Best Actor for his mind-altering portrayal of a drug-addled singer.
 
 Unlike the heady concert events in that film, though, the air at the glamorous award ceremony boasted only legal substances such as free WiFi and stardust.
 
 The evening began with the host, Shah Rukh Khan, dropping from the sky in a harness with a guitar, lipsyncing a song about cinema and strumming even as he dangled mid-air. 'I am banned in Wankhede, not in NSCI,' he told the organizers through his hands-free mike, while requesting them to let him step on to the stage. Given that the Best Actor category featured all three Khans, the Badshah of Bollywood decided to take an instant poll of popularity by asking the audience to clap for their favourite Khan one by one. When they clapped for Aamir, SRK deadpanned: 'Liars. If you are a true fan of Aamir, you won't be at an awards function.'
 
 Fellow hosts, motormouth comedian Kapil Sharma and director Karan Johar, too, kept pace with SRK's lasersharp one-liners. A key moment arrived when  , his turquoise bracelet and tongue-in-cheek wit firmly in place, exchanged thoughts on choppy mobile networks with SRK. Amitabh Bachchan presented the the lifetime achievement award to  .
 
 The highlight reel of the star-studded night glowed with performances by Alia Bhatt, Sonakshi Sinha,   Rajput and Jacqueline Fernandez.
 
 Bhatt proved to be a clever shapeshifter, working through her multiple personalities at lightning speed. Dressed in Kareena Kapoor's famous corset-and-frills dress from 'Jab We Met', she performed to 'Yeh Ishq Hai' and, soon after, at lightning speed, appeared in 'Aishwarya Rai's blue ghagra from 'Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam' to groove to 'Nimbooda' before morphing into Madhuri Dixit's rainbow dress from 'Tezaab' for 'Ek Do Teen'.
 
 The event also saw actresses upping their red carpet game by lowering their necklines. These plunging cleavages belonged to the likes of the porcelain complexioned Kalki Koechlin, who glistened in a copper gown to Sophie Choudry who glittered in an off-shoulder gray gown. As for the men, bowties and Fedora hats competed with traditional bandis and Jodhpurs for attention.
 
 Title sponsor for the event was Jio, associate sponsors were Reliance Digital, Gaurs, Carnival Cinemas and Shivtara Properties Pvt Ltd; the event was powered by LYF smartphone plus and Sanjay Ghodawat Group, telecast partner Sony Entertainment Television, exclusive digital streaming partner Sony LIV, hair styling partner Schwarzkopf, metal partner Lumineux Uno, online jewellery partner Nakshatra World, skill partner Skill Ministry, outdoor partner Bright Outdoor, cinema advertising partner Khushi Advertising, English news channel partner Times Now, Hindi news channel partner India TV and music partner T Series.
 
