VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as  's Isha Foundation is planning to set up spiritually-oriented institutions in Vizag, spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s   also has shown interest in setting up a spiritual and meditation centre.

 The foundation has reportedly proposed to set up the centre in the outskirts of the city on the lines of the Bengaluru International Centre of Art of Living, sources said, adding that the district administration is planning to attract foreign tourists to the city through the Art of Living centre, which is quite popular internationally.
 
 The port city has many followers of Ravi Sankar and the foundation has been conducting meditation, yoga and other activities in the city for many years. Presently, Vizag has no Art of Living meditation centre.
 
 According to revenue sources, the foundation has been is keen to set up a centre that will have meditation, yoga, Ayurvedic treatment, skill development and wellness centres. It will also have an organic farming wing just like the centre in Bengaluru which is built on over 350 acre. The participants will be provided cheap accommodation and free food.
 
 Sources said the district administration has already identified land parcels near Pavuralakonda in Bheemili and Anandapuram. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar wishes to conduct classes in Vizag to attract tourists every year from November to January once the centre is established.
 
 “Guruji said Vizag has tremendous potential for tourism. Instead of going to foreign countries for conducting classes, we can attract foreigners to the port city. Various courses can be planned if we have a full-fledged centre here,’ a representative of the foundation told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, district collector Pravin Kumar admitted that the Art of Living Foundation has shown interest in setting up a centre and hoped that it will attract huge number of tourists including foreigners. “it is in the proposal stage and we are identifying land parcels for various projects to be set up in the district,” he said.
 
