KOLKATA: Ice manufacturers in the city will soon have to distinguish between industrial ice and edible ice to prevent health hazards. The   will send notices to city's ice manufacturers asking them to colour industrial ice, making them easily distinguishable from the edible variety. Now, industrial ice is widely used for preservation of fish, in fruit juice parlours and paan shops. Edible ice is used in restaurants, clubs and bars.

 The decision was taken after Kolkata Municipal Corporation health department officials conducted raids in the   area on June 22. Tonnes of industrial ice were seized from fruit and juice sellers and destroyed. The civic officials then carried out a surprise visit to an ice factory in south Kolkata. The team of KMC health department officials led by Atin  , the member, mayor-in-council (health), found that two types of ice --industrial and edible -were being manufactured in the unit.
 
 As the KMC authorities took up the matter with the Beng al food safety commissioner's office, the latter advised the civic body to take action since the Centre is also worried about the quality of ice being sold in different states. On Friday, a panel of food safety experts expressed concerns over the use of industrial ice in food items.
 
 “The use of industrial ice in juice centres is a matter of grave concern and we need to deal it with utmost seriousness. Even, we should no longer allow use of industrial ice for preservation of fish. Such ice contains coliform bacteria and can pose serious health threat,“ said  , the former director of Central Food Laboratory.
 
 Godhuli Mukherjee, food safety commissioner, also gave her opinion against use of industrial ice in preservation of fish. Ghosh said a panel would be formed to suggest ways to ban use of industrial ice in food items and soft drinks and for preservation of fish. “The civic body will take stern action if the ice manufacturers or businessmen fail to take steps to ensure that industrial ice is not used in food items and soft drinks,“ said mayor Sovan Chatterjee.
 
