JAISALMER: Now, helping martyrs’ families financially will be a smooth affair. National Award winner actor Askhay Kumar is preparing an app-cum-website with the help of central government for this. The website is named ‘Bharat ke Veer Jawan’ which will be launched by Union home minister   on April 9 at Vigyan Bhawan. The government and the actor together are bridging the gap between volunteers and the kin of those who lay down their lives for the sake of the country, leaving their dependents financially weak.

 On this occasion, apart from Rajnath Singh and Akshay Kumar, Union minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju, Union home secretary Rajiv Maharishi, BSF DG K K Sharma and BSF DIG Jaisalmer Amit Lodha and others will also be present.
 
 Kumar, with inspiration from his friend BSF DIG Amit Lodha, made this application and website in which details of family members of martyr and bank account will be given. Any person can directly deposit money in the account of the martyr’s family. Once the amount reaches Rs 15 lakh, the account will automatically be removed from the website.
 
 It is to be mentioned that Akshay Kumar has deep respect for the security forces and is helping them economically, in the best possible manner that he can. He often comes to meet them to boost their morale. Kumar has been making efforts to help the family of martyrs financially. Recently, he had provided help of Rs 1.08 crore to 12 CRPF jawans killed in Sukma Naxal attack. It addition to that, the actor has given Rs 9 lakh each to more than a dozen Army and BSF martyr's families.
 
 Lodha before going to Delhi said the website will be launched on Sunday on April 9. Speaking about this website, he said Kumar had spoken to him about making this scheme to help jawans who become martyrs in guarding the nation.
 
 Kumar’s father was in the   and he is aware of tough life that the security forces lead. Whenever he gets information of any jawans becoming martyrs, he gets disturbed and hence made a plan in which people of the country could help the family of martyrs.
 
 Lodha said this website will have all details of family members of the Army and para-military forces, bank account number etc and any person sitting in any corner of the country can help the martyrs’ families. He added that many people want to help the family of martyrs, but they do not have information.
 
