PUNE: The   ( ) has reiterated that no occupation certificate (OC) can be granted to ‘Victory Towers’, a housing project for defence personnel in the   township, unless the developer meets all conditions stated in the building permission granted by the district collectorate on April 21, 2014.

 The project is located nearly 2.5km north of the main township, separated by a railway line. A section of homebuyers and the developer have been in a dispute for over a year about the construction of a railway overbridge, a 26.6-metre road connecting the project site with the main township and a 12-metre access road — the underlying conditions stated in the building permission document. They have argued that an OC cannot be granted to the developer unless all these conditions are met with.
 
 On July 1 last year, the PMRDA had issued a directive that said all conditions should be fulfilled before an OC can be granted. However, the homebuyers recently complained to the PMRDA stating the developer had given possession to some of the purchasers, breaching the body’s directive. A fresh hearing was held before PMRDA’s metropolitan town planner Vivek Kharwadkar.
 
 The PMRDA released the minutes of this hearing to the Victory Towers Welfare Association on April 29, reiterating its previous position. It has decided that the developer should not give possession without the OC and submit a report related to the proposed railway overbridge within three months.
 
 City Corporation’s chief operating officer   told TOI on Tuesday, “We have given possession to nearly 100 homebuyers for fit out purpose and nothing else. Some of them have started living there.”
 
 He said, “We have apprised the PMRDA about the railway consultant RITES’ opinion that an overbridge is not feasible. But, an underbridge can be constructed. The construction of the underbridge will begin once its final design is approved by the railway chief engineer. This may take a few months. The issue of north-south connectivity will be resolved once the underbridge is constructed. We have also started working on the access road. As of now, the project buildings are ready with all facilities.”
 
