MUMBAI: The state government has finally approved the setting up of a textile museum at Byculla. The proposal was first mooted in 2009. However, in the bargain, the city will have to forego its recreation ground.

 The notification states that six structures in India United Mills 2 & 3 have been sanctioned as   structures and the entire plot as a heritage precinct.
 
 It further states that the municipal corporation has requested the state government to   the   under the heritage structures to be retained for the textile museum as part of the recreation ground of the corporation.
 
 “The land under the heritage structures to be retained for textile museum shall be treated as part of the recreation ground share of the MCGM as a special case,” says the notification. 
 
 “The municipal commissioner may permit the use of these heritage structures for the purpose of a textile museum and ancillary activities like exhibition of textile-related activities, fabrics, machinery, processes, fashion shows, souvenir shops, other recreational activities such as cafeteria, spill-out zones, light and sound shows, public utility toilet blocks, etc.”
 
 The designated RG area is spread over 44,000 sq metres (approx. ten acres) and is completely covered by structures. The RG has been carved out of the mill area spread over approximately 61,000 sq metres. In addition there is another 3,500 sq metres on which stands the NTC staff quarters.
 
 Civic officials said initially the proposal was to hand over the entire 61,000 sq metres to the BMC. However, later, NTC claimed the balance 17,000 sq metres (approx four acres), saying it was in excess of what was due to the BMC as   under the one-third formula.
 
 Expressing his disapproval on locating the textile museum on the city’s RG, activist P K Das said an open space is a mandatory requirement. “The history of open spaces in Mumbai is that it is continually encroached upon and depleted. “Open spaces cannot be compensated in any other means as it adversely affects the quality of life,” he said.
 
 A conservation architect on condition of anonymity said by amalgamating the two amenities the government was finding easy solutions. “One needs to have a vision and a master plan, both of which are sadly lacking,” said the architect.
 
 A senior civic official, on condition of anonymity as the code of conduct has been announced for the BMC elections, said the civic corporation is considering buying out the additional open space from the NTC by offering TDR (transfer of development rights) and this could be developed as the RG.
 
 “It is proposed to allow the use of TDR in the island city so it will be a lucrative offer for the NTC,” said the official.
 
 
