THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The resolution passed by the national executive council of the   against the   in Kerala “for unleashing attack against the BJP workers”, was an outcome of the RSS’ disappointment in its failure to turn the state into a laboratory of saffron brigade, said CPM state secretary   Balakrishnan.

 In a statement issued here on Monday, the CPM state secretary also demanded the Sangh Parivar forces not to sabotage “the efforts to restore peace in the state initiated under the leadership of chief minister   Vijayan.”
 
 “In fact, the strong and brave stand taken by the CPM and the left forces defeated the RSS agenda in Kerala to make inroads into the state polity through communal violence,” he said, responding to the accusations levelled against the CPM at the ongoing three-day meet of Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the highest policy making body of the RSS, in Coimbatore.
 
 Citing nine murders executed by the RSS after the LDF government came into in the state, Balakrishnan said the RSS had killed a total of 209 CPM workers in the state over several decades. 
 
 “The Sangh Parivar has also killed workers of other political parties including the Congress, the IUML, the SDPI and the Janata Dal (U). The RSS is a gang of murderers which eliminate all those raising their voice against it,” he pointed out.
 
 “The RSS committed 27 murders during the previous UDF government’s tenure and the victims included a 68-year-old woman and an eight-year-old boy. The UDF rule also gave overt and covert support to the RSS,” he alleged.
 
 The CPM state secretary said the RSS opted for widespread attacks after the LDF came to power, to destroy the atmosphere of peace and to create a volatile and insecure situation. “ Pinarayi Vijayan made a sincere intervention to restore peace by initiating bilateral talks between the CPM and the BJP leaders in the state capital. This was followed by an all-party meeting in Kannur, which decided to stop violence,” he said.
 
 Alleging ‘continued violence by the RSS in the state, which included attacks on party offices and violence against women’, Balakrishnan said the RSS national leadership should be directing the outfit’s state leadership to stop violence, instead of passing resolutions against the CPM.
 
