CHANDIGARH: Amid the hype around the   result there was a quiet sense of satisfaction among students of another school that did not hit the headlines. As many as 14 stu dents from the meritorious school in Mohali, cracked the exam. It is one of the special schools run by   government to facilitate meritorious students from poor backgrounds in classes XI and XII.The school provides hostel and coaching facility in medical, non-medical and commerce streams, all for free. Out of 14 students, three are girls. One boy has qualified in the general category while others in the Scheduled Caste category . Their ranks may not be high, but that doesn't mean they are not aiming high.
Prabhdeep Singh got the highest rank at 7581. Following him is Amritpal Singh with AIR 9271 and on third place is Sanjay Kumar with AIR 9563.In fourth place is   with AIR 11,642 P arents of many of these children are daily-wagers and in some cases even the siblings work to support the family . Many of them struggle with the achievement.  , a parent whose daughter cleared JEE Mains in the Schedule Caste category , he said, “I am happy she has qualified some test but how will it benefit her?“ he asked.
 
 With the result out, students are now aiming for JEE Advanced. However, they are not yet certain if they will be able to take admission in the desired institutes, like the IITs or any other college, even if they get admission, because of their poor financial status. Many of them say they will have to find ways to supplement the family income as quickly as possible.
 
 The result of JEE mains was announced by Central Board of Secondary Education on Thursday . The gateway for admissions into the undergraduate programmes at Indian Institutes of Technology , NITs, IIITs, other institutions.
 
 Colonel  , principal of the school, too is worried about the students' future.He says, “It is a moment of pride for me as they have done what many of the students with all facilities could also not. But there are still challenges in their way, finance being the top most. Also their parents lack awareness about education and how it can transform their future. We have some parents who say that they would instead make them do some other work or send them to normal low-fee colleges.“
 
 Project director, residential schools of Punjab, KAS Bhullar says there were talks to finance the students in higher education but nothing happened thereafter. “We will see what we can do to support our students as they are academically very good and we want them to do well for themselves in future as well.“
 
