AGRA: Agra police on Saturday filed FIR against 69 members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and   including 29 under serious   for engaging in   and   against other community on 'Vijay-Dashmi'.

 On Saturday TOI reported how saffron-clad activists armed with gun, pistols, rifle and swords allegedly raised objectionable slogans targeting minority community and fired several shots in the air, close to world heritage monument Agra Fort, while foreign tourists were passing by the area.
 
 Based on a written complaint filed by station officer   Tomar of Rakabganj, an FIR was registered against right-wing men under IPC sections 143 (Punishment), 144 (Joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153AA (By words, either spoken, or by signs or by visible representations or otherwise, promotes or attempts to promote, on grounds of religion, or community or any other ground whatsoever disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious groups or castes or communities), (295 A )Deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 298 (Uttering words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 307 (attempt to murder), 505 (3) (Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes, committed in place of worship, etc in any place of worship or in any assembly engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine), Criminal law act 7 and Arms act 30.
 
 The men were identified as VHP president Sunil Parashar, Rajeev Sharma, general secretary, Deepak Agrawal, city president, Rajendar Garg, Digvijaynath Tiwari, Ravi Dubey, Deepak Verma, Anoop Verma, Ajay Tomar, Anupam Pandit, head of Gauraksha group of Bajrang Dal, Bunty Thakur and 57 others named and unnamed were booked.
 
 According to police FIR (copy with TOI), Inspector Sanjeev Kumar Tomar claimed "Around 70-80 right-wing men gathered with weapons at Hanuman temple near world heritage monument Agra fort. The group violated local administration orders and raised highly objectionable slogans against other religious community and fired several shots in the air with their licensed weapons. The act of VHP and Bajrang Dal members created a sense of insecurity among the local residents and the tourists, after which a stampede like situation occurred, endangering the lives of many."
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police and circle officer of Sadar, Udairaj Singh said, "The group had crossed the limits and challenged the administration who had been trying to maintain peace, law and order."
 "They fired weapons and raised slogans against other religious community, hence we have booked them. A hunt is on to find the accused men, as everyone is at large after the incident," he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone, VHP president Sunil Parashar who was also booked said, "The Mughal Raj has ended six months back and now it's Rambhakt Raj. The local administration has failed to overcome the mind frame of Mughal raj. Every year the ritual of 'shastra pujan' (worshipping arms) associated with festival of 'Vijay Dashmi is performed in Ramlila ground. The celebratory shots were fired by over enthusiast VHP and Bajrang Dal members amid chanting of 'Jai Sri Ram'. But it was confined to temple premises which was quite far away from Agra Fort, " he added.
 
 When questioned why the over enthusiast saffron-clad men raised objectionable slogans against other community during festival, Parashar said, "Administration is concerned over our chanting but they can't see as how the other community members are creating ruckus in the city on Muharram."
 
