Madurai: The sudden   called by government transport staff on Sunday, a day ahead of the announced indefinite strike, created panic among commuters, many of whom were on their way to respective home towns after attending the Chittirai festival in Madurai. Taking advantage of the situation, omnibus operators plying on long distance routes increased fares manyfold, putting the already troubled commuters into further discomfort.

 The Periyar bus stand in Madurai, which is always bustling with activity, turned into a panic area around 3.30pm on Sunday when the passengers were politely told by the crew that the buses would not ply as they were going on a strike. 
 
 Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao, TNSTC officials and others arrived at the spot within a few minutes of the announcement and tried to mollify the commuters. The collector told them that all steps were being taken to ensure that the public did not face any inconvenience. 
 
 “Steps have been taken to operate 184 private buses and 97 mini buses on specific routes to ensure that the people reach their destinations,’’ he said. However, there was minimal bus service on many of the Madurai routes as several buses were stationed at the respective depots or sheds by the protesting staff.
 
 The collector also said that 29 officials would be deployed under the supervision of the three RTOs to ensure that that private bus operators did not overcharge the passengers.
 
 S Ponuthai, of Chekkanoorani, had come with about ten family members to Alagarkoil to see the deity return to his abode. She came to Periyar bus stand at 3.15 pm only to be informed about the strike. “I really don’t know how we will return to our home town which is about 25 kilometres away,’’ she said.
 
 At the Omnibus stand at Maatuthavani it was another chaotic scene. The omnibus operators had already hiked fares by as much as Rs 2,000 for AC sleeper services to Chennai and Bangalore in view of the Chittirai festival. Most of these buses were already booked, but other private services were seen right outside the bus stand fleecing the last minute travellers. “There were a couple of SETC buses to Chennai, but I was not sure if I should take my wife and family on them, fearing that they might stop midway through the journey. I have paid Rs 5000 to book tickets for four of us in a private bus,’’ said Sethuraman of Chennai.
 
 CITU Madurai district transport general secretary R Vasudevan said that there were 1,116 buses at the 16 depots in Madurai, of which 700 plied within the city, while 300 were mofussil services and the remaining spare vehicles. “The transport employees have been pushed to this situation. 10 transport associations are with us, while 31 transport associations are with the government, but with only five per cent of the buses being operated, you can guess who the employees and workers are backing,’’ he said. 
 
 He said that the situation will continue and only five per cent of the buses will ply on the roads till all their demands are met and retired employees given their dues. “The government will actually need about Rs 10,000 crore to give all our pending dues. We want the minister to give his statement in writing that Rs 1,200 crore will be disbursed for now,’’ he added.
 
 
