GURUGRAM: Thousands of monkeys are still swarming residential colonies and city streets, exposing civic authorities’ failure in stemming the   that claimed the life of a youth last month and injured several others in recent past. 

 If members of   are to be believed, the civic body is showing little urgency to deal with the problem, forcing residents to fend for themselves.
 
 The   was roped in by   to catch and shift monkeys from the city areas to forests last week. While the NGO is supposed to provide manpower to chase down monkeys, MCG is expected to provide logistics support, including vehicles, fuel, cages etc. to make the mission successful. Also, MCG launched a helpline for residents tormented by moneys. 
 
 Though the helpline number never stopped ringing since its launch, the 20-member team of the NGO had been able to catch only 50-odd monkeys, out of around 10,000 roaming the city, so far.
 
 “Complaints from harried residents continue to pour in, but we are helpless. Despite assurances, the corporation has failed to provide the necessary equipment and resources to catch monkeys. The team members are being forced to spend their own money and resources to hunt down the animals,” said Aryan Chaudhary, member of the Wildlife Care Foundation. 
 
 Before launching the drive, Chaudhary added, MCG officials had promised to provide at least two big vehicles, which could be used to transport captured monkeys and release them into forests. Apart from this, the NGO was promised small vehicles so that it could reach monkey-infested locations in time.
 
 “The work order clearly states this. But, so far we have not received anything. On the other hand, we have been flooded with complaints from across the city,” he added. “If we receive the required assistance, we can ride the city of monkeys in 2-3 months.”
 
 MCG officials denied the allegations. “We did not promise them any vehicle in the first place,” said an official from the sanitation department.
 
 On December 18, Rajesh Mandal, chased by a troop of monkeys, fell to death from the third-floor open terrace of a temple adjacent to his living quarters in Nathupur. 
 
 
