HYDERABAD: It’s official. Hyderabad will now have to wait two more years to see the entire   project up and about. Also, only one stretch, instead of two that are ready for launch, will be thrown open to the public this year. This was confirmed by the   (HMRL) chief   during a media tour organised on Saturday. 

 As per the   signed between HMRL and Larsen & Toubro (L&T), the entire project was supposed to be completed by June 2017. 
 
 “But now the project, with all the three corridors, will be finished by June 2018. Following the construction, a few more months will be required for completing ‘contractual formalities’. This is must before the three corridors can be made completely operational,” said Reddy. 
 
 Authorities had previously hinted at the possibility of the metro work spilling over to next year. “There have been unavoidable delays. There were 369 court cases filed, of which we won 340 cases. For a project of this magnitude, a one-year delay is very little. Experts agree that Hyderabad Metro Rail is progressing at a very good pace. We will have to give an extension to L&T. It will be given for less than a two-year period,” Reddy said.
 
 While HMRL had initially decided to make two routes — Miyapur to SR Nagar and Nagole to Mettuguda — operational in the first phase by June 2017, they now intend to launch only the former by mid-year. This, despite the   being completed over a year ago. 
 
 “Both the routes are entirely ready for launch and we are trying to extend them further. But to begin with, we want to launch the Miyapur-SR Nagar route, which is 11 km long. After a few months, once we take into account passenger feedback and make necessary changes, if required, we will launch the Nagole-Mettuguda metro rail stretch as well. We want to first gain experience on one stretch, be doubly sure of the various aspects and plug all the possible loopholes before we decide to throw open to public the other stretches,” said Reddy.
 
 The HMRL chief admitted that this revision in the plan will result in operational losses. “However, we have to do this to gain first-hand experience before we make the mammoth project entirely operational,” the Reddy reiterated. 
 
 The Miyapur-SR Nagar route, expected to be extended up to Khairatabad, is part of the Corridor III while the 8 km long Nagole-Mettuguda stretch (expected to be extended up to Begumpet) is part of Corridor I of the Hyderabad Metro Rail project.
 
