PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Cycle rickshaws, vehicles mounted with   and hydrogen balloons are the latest tools that candidates in Pimpri Chinchwad are using to capture voters’ attention. 

 Cycle rickshaws which are used as a mode of transport in UP, Bihar, Delhi and other parts of North India are being modified to display candidates’ posters and party symbol.
 
 One such candidate using the cycle rickshaw for campaigning, Nationalist   (NCP)’s Rahul Bhosale, said, “Cycle rickshaw is an old mode of transport and not so popular now like it was a few decades ago. We wanted to use it in an innovative way for campaigning as it is easy to use, does not need fuel and is eco-friendly. Small children, on seeing the cycle rickshaws on the road, become curious and call out to their parents to see it. As a result, the name of the candidate and symbol reaches a large number of voters.”
 
 Another NCP candidate Samir Masulkar said, “Cycle rickshaws can easily pass through narrow by-lanes in slums and reach voters where auto rickshaws or other big vehicles cannot go. There are no loudspeakers mounted on them so there is no disturbance to anyone when they pass along the roads in various parts of the ward.”
 
 NCP corporator Ajit Gavhane told TOI, “Postcards and inland letters were popular modes of communication between people a few decades ago, when there were no mobile phones or few landlines. So, to give a personal touch to the campaign, I distributed postcards through my supporters dressed as postmen. The postcards carried my message about developmental work conducted in the past five years and asked them to vote for me. People liked this concept a lot.”
 
 Hydrogen balloons bearing the name of the candidate and his symbol and vehicles mounted with LED screens are also being used to reach out to voters in various parts of the city.
 
 The owner of the firm providing these vehicles, Yogesh Wani, said, “We provide two types of LED screen-mounted vehicles, namely hydraulic vehicles and LED screen vehicles. The trend of using LED screen vehicles started during the   elections. LED screen hydraulic vehicle has the capacity to turn the screen 90 degrees and also move it up and down for visibility over a long distance. There is a small dais for three to four people to sit and address a meeting, for which there is sound system and other facilities. There are also   on it. As a result, there is no need for a candidate to put up pandals for holding corner meetings.”
 
 Wani added that there is a huge demand for hydraulic vehicles but it was impossible to meet the demand. “So, we are supplying LED screen vehicles on which screens are mounted. These screens run video clips about the candidates and political parties. We have rented out 100 such vehicles to candidates and political parties. Official candidates of political parties as well as independent candidates are using them,” he said.
 
