CHENNAI: Facing CBI proceedings over   ( ) affairs, former Union finance minister P Chidambaram’s son   has moved   to quash summons issued to him on July 19.

 CBI has directed Karti to appear before it on July 21 for an inquiry in connection with the FIPB clearance given to INX Media for receiving funds from Mauritius, during the tenure of Karti’s father Chidambaram as union finance minister.
 
 The case of the prosecution is that a firm "indirectly controlled" by Karti received money from the media house, run by Indrani and Peter Mukerjea. The agency had issued summons to Karti and four others for questioning on June 27 and June 29. Karti through his lawyer had informed the agency that he needed more time to appear for questioning. 
 
 On May 15, the CBI filed an FIR against Karti and others and conducted a raide in various permises of the petitioner and his family on the very next day.
 
 On Friday, Justice P Velmurugan took up the plea moved by Karti to decide the maintainability of the petition. During the hearing, senior counsel for the petitioner Goal Subramaniam contended that it was a settled principal of law that issuing summons to an accused and interrogating him would amount to violation of fundamental right guaranteed under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, which states that no person accused of an offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself. 
 
 "The Article grants immunity from self-incrimination. Thus the instant summons is only to make the petitioner make self-incriminating statements when it is the case of the petitioner that he has not met any official in the ministry of finance for any purpose much less for FIPB approval for the INX group and thus notice is liable to be set aside," the counsel said. 
 
 The counsel for the CBI opposed the petition contending that the summons had been issued well within the jurisdiction and investigating powers of the CBI. The agency wanted the court to dismiss the plea on grounds of maintainability.
 
 Recording the hour-long arguments, Justice Velmurugan adjourned the plea to July 28 for further hearing without passing any interim orders even on the maintainability of the petition.
 
