UDHAGAMANDALAM: In a bid to ensure that chief minister   has a smooth ride all the way to ‘Tamizhagam’, located close to the Nilgiris collector’s bungalow in Ooty, where he will be staying till May 23, at least five   at blind turns on the   have been removed. Activists say that all these spots are blind curves and the speed-breakers are crucial to avoid accidents.

 “A VVIP’s visit could attract more security but certainly not pose a risk to the lives of the public. Tamizhagam Road is just a 1.5 km stretch, but has several blind turns. Also, it connects NH 67 at a junction within the town,” said an activist. “Common man’s safety is no less important,” he said.
 
 However, Dr Prabhakaran, Ooty municipal health officer and commissioner in-charge, told TOI, “Yes, of course, five speed-breakers on Tamizhagam Road were removed ahead of VVIPS’ visit to the town. It is done under the instruction of the police, mainly for security reasons.” He said, “The speed breakers will be re-laid after the VVIPs leave the hill town.” According to him, it is a routine procedure during VVIPS’ visits.
 
 Another issue which has raised eyebrows here is the quick action of the authorities in fixing a broken drain near the PWD office on Garden Road. It had been neglected by the authorities for years together, and it turns worse when it rains.
 
 “The CM’s visit has prompted the officials to fix the drain. But the officials should change their attitude when it comes to civic issues,” said L Kannan, a local resident.
 
 A couple of hoardings, in connection with the CM’s visit, erected by the AIADMK on the footpath on Spencer’s Road is a hindrance to pedestrians. The authorities have turned a blind eye to this. “First of all, the town is crowded with tourists. Blocking a footpath with hoardings is ridiculous,” said M Kumar, another local resident. 
 
 According to state highway officials, a few speed-breakers on the Ooty-Lovedale Road were also removed, citing the visit of President Pranab Mukherjee.
 
