KOLKATA: A major fire broke out in a five-storey building close to the Fancy Market at Kidderpore early on Wednesday. The incident was reported around 5.50am from the third floor of the   building that is almost 33 years old. Even as a readymade garment shop caught fire, the inferno soon engulfed the top floor (also owned by the same shop owner). No one was injured. Fancy Market traders said they cannot recall a fire of such magnitude for quite some time in the area. 

 By the time the flames were finally brought under control after two-and-a-half hours by 14 fire-tenders, both showrooms of Menzline Garments were completely gutted. The effect of the fire on other stores was minimal, said shop owners. Prima facie, it seems a short-circuit led to the incident. However, the owners have contested the claims of fire and police departments.
 
 According to  , owner of both shops, his employees had switched off all lights by 9pm on Tuesday. "We had suffered a major break-in some months ago but Watgunge police cracked the case. Ever since, we have been careful about all forms of security. I cannot understand why such a fire broke out now. My losses can be anywhere between Rs 8-Rs 12 lakh," said Alam. 
 
 The secretary of the market,  , said even the nightwatchmen could not detect the fire. "Some of us were heading for namaz around 5.45am when we found smoke coming out of the fourth floor. The guards said they smelt something burning but could not locate the fire. By 6.10am, the smoke had become thick and we informed Lalbazar about the fire,"said Khan.
 
 Chief security officer   stated while the first three floors were for shopkeepers who paid monthly rentals, the top floors had separate connections maintained by their individual owners. "Even so early in the morning, we began to sweep all the floors. Nothing came to our notice. We were shocked when we were told there was a fire. For 20 minutes, we tried to control the blaze. However, when the fumes became dense, we informed Lalbazar," said Mohammad. 
 
 
