PUNE: Friday was the hottest day this summer, with the mercury soaring to 41.7 degrees C at the Lohegaon weather observatory. The temperature at the Shivajinagar observatory was also the highest for this season at 41.1 degrees C, which was also the hottest May temperature in the last four years.

 The second highest temperature of the season (March to May) was 40.8 degrees C, recorded at the Shivajinagar observatory on April 18.
 
 Friday’s temperature was more than 3 degrees above normal as per readings at both the weather observatories. Private weather forecasters said that though the temperature had crossed 40 degrees C, the “real feel’ temperature was as much as 46 degrees C.
 
 Even the night temperatures in the city were on the higher side. On Friday, the minimum temperature in the city was an uncomfortable 24.2 degrees C, more than 3 degrees above normal. A few days ago, on May 1, the minimum temperature in Pune was close to 19.2 degrees C.
 
 Weather forecasters said that the cloudy skies over Pune at night have been trapping solar radiation, with little scope for it to escape back into the atmosphere.
 
 P C S Rao, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Analysis Group,   ( ), Pune, said temperatures have been on the higher side in north Madhya Maharashtra, Saurashtra and Gujarat. “Temperatures were relatively cool a week ago due to the moist westerly winds blowing from the Arabian Sea. However, on Friday, a cyclonic circulation lay over central parts of Madhya Pradesh, from which a trough ran to Comorin area across Vidarbha, Marathwada, interior Karnataka and interior Tamil Nadu. Winds have therefore become more north-northwesterly than westerly in Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 Northwesterly winds are land winds and are hotter than westerly winds, which blow from the ocean and are relatively cooler. This explains the rise in temperatures in parts of the state. Rao said that the trough is also causing isolated rainfall in parts of Konkan, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra. Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada are likely to see some isolated pre-monsoon thundershowers during the next few days. Marathwada may see more of such showers as the trough passes through that region, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, city doctors have been reporting a growing number of cases of heat-related illness this summer, especially exhaustion and dizziness. “We have been getting quite a few cases of heat-related rash, known as miliaria, which occurs in conditions of increased heat and humidity. Fever with dehydration is also being reported. This usually happens when people step out during noon time on a hot summer day,” family physician Prakash Mahajan said.
 
 “Keeping out of the sun, drinking plenty of water and staying in air-conditioned environs if you can afford it are the best ways of keep heat-related health conditions at bay,” said Parvez Grant, managing trustee and chief cardiologist of Ruby Hall Clinic.
 
