MYSURU: Eight weeks after the death of former minister  , his wife   on Monday attended Congress workers meeting, signaling that she is ready to take on the mantle. But Geetha said that she is sad that she has to enter politics in the absence of her husband. But she asserted that her dream is to make his dreams come true.

 “I merely seek your love and support. My family will continue to serve you the way it did when my husband was alive,” an emotional Geetha told the gathering at Honakanapura in Gundulpet taluk. This is the first time Geetha, who is Congress’ probable candidate, addressed the party workers. She read out a prepared speech.
 
 The former minister died due to heart attack while on an official tour in Chikkamagaluru on January 3. 
 
 Geetha’s public appearance comes after chief minister Siddaramaiah all but announced her candidature. 
 
 Following his death, the border constituency is heading for byelection, which is likely to be held along with that of Nanjangud segment.  , led by K R Niranjan Kumar, who has lost twice to Prasad, has started the campaign by meeting the party workers and the electorate. Former chief minister   has also visited the segment and addressed the workers.
 
 Saying that she will respond to the problems and challenges faced by people, Geetha asserted that she will be secular in her approach like Prasad and serve everyone, cutting across caste and community barriers. Geetha said that she had no inclination to enter politics, “but is now pushed to serve the people”. Referring to the projects initiated by Prasad, Geetha said that she will complete them.
 
 Congress leaders said that the party workers should desist from seeking  , but speak about the development of the constituency and Chamarajanagar district due to the efforts of Prasad. “It will get us through,” Chamarajanagar district Congress chief P Mariswamy stated. “We should ensure that Geetha registers victory by over 40,000 votes, which will be a tribute to the former minister,” he added.
 
 H S Nanjappa, Prasad’s associate and newly-appointed chairman of Cauvery Command Area Development Authority (Cada), said that workers need not worry about BJP. He said that they should ensure victory of the party and pay their homage to the departed leader.
 
 
