GURUGRAM: The   ( ) gets under way next week, and this year marks   of an extravaganza that’s as much about   as it is about sport.

 In the run-up, a couple of TV ads have caught the eye, each in its own way communicating how these two months have become such a part of the fabric of Indians’ lives, as ubiquitous as traffic jams, Bollywood and daal chawal.
 
 Sony Max’s feelgood #10SaalAapkeNaam pays tribute to the many fans who have embraced the IPL. “It’s been an epic ten years,” Sonal Dabral told TOI. He’s the chairman and chief creative officer of the DDB Mudra Group, the imaginative force behind the campaign. Dabral likens the tournament to a festival that brings people together. Every ‘religion’, after all, has festivals, and cricket’s no different.
 
 “This year we thought we’d bring back some of the high-energy cheer into the IPL,” shared Dabral. And, of course, it is the fans, who have made the IPL the tournament it is, who play lead roles here.
 
 There are, says Dabral, fans of all kinds out there, each with their habits and quirks. “There are ‘antaryami’ fans, ‘vehemi’ fans, future fans, ‘farishtey’ fans, all-rounder fans, under-pressure fans.” Indeed, a diverse group that reflects the diversity of India.
 
 Another campaign, for digital and mobile entertainment platform Hotstar, focuses on how time can always be found for the game, even in today’s busy world. #TaiyaarReh, conceptualised by Mumbai-based Creativeland Asia, says cricket needn’t get in the way of your work.
 
 “The message that we intended to come through is that when cricket happens, this country stops. But with Hotstar around, you can carry on with your life and carry on watching the match,” says Sajan Raj Kurup, founder and creative chairman, Creativeland Asia.
 
 What sets the ad apart, and takes it to another level, is the punchy score (with its rapidfire vocal delivery) and the gritty and humming Mumbai cityscape.
 
  ‘Naezy’ is one of India’s few homegrown rappers, and for #TaiyaarReh, Kurup paired him with music director Sneha Khanwalkar (of ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ fame).
 
 “We brought them together and jammed with them. We didn’t want to create a jingle, but a nice soundtrack that incorporated the street sounds of Mumbai. The track speaks of the fact that ‘life won’t stop and neither will the game, if you come on to Hotstar’,” Kurup explains.
 
 In the ad, a mother asks her son, ‘What will you get from watching cricket?’ It sums up how much of a craze the sport is in India. “We’ve tried to capture what people feel about the game.” A lot, as it turns out. Which accounts for the continuing popularity of the IPL.
 
 
