TRICHY: A man from   and another one from Trichy, who were reportedly affected by H1N1 flu, have become the latest casualties of last minute referral from private hospitals.

 S Suresh, 32, from Aathankarai Viduthi near Alangudi in Pudukkottai district, died at the isolation ward of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Monday night. He lost his life within a few hours after being referred as an   in the city. Doctors at MGMGH had little time to diagnose the nature of the disease.
 
 Suresh was a chronic diabetic for last 12 years and it also worsened his health, hospital sources said. "The patient died within three hours after admission. The report from the private centre had mentioned about H1N1," dean Dr A Mary Lilly told TOI.
 
 In the second such case, Shanmugam, 63, from Trichy became the latest victim of late referral. He lost his life after three days of treatment at the isolation ward of the hospital on Tuesday morning.
 
 Lack of isolation wards and proper treatment at private hospitals are proving fatal for H1N1 patients. Recently, city health officer (CHO) Dr M Geetharani had held a meeting with the doctors from private hospitals. The doctors were directed to report about fever patients regularly to keep track of such cases and to avoid complications. However, some of the private hospitals continue to keep such patients till it is too late and refer them to government hospitals at the terminal stage.
 
 The president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Trichy chapter, Dr N Balasubramanian said the association had advised private hospitals to be very sensitive in handling fever cases. "We advised them to deal with such cases for two days. If fever is not abating due to routine treatment and you don't have the basic knowledge or investigating procedure, send the patient to a competent person," he said.
 
 Four patients with symptoms of H1N1 are currently undergoing treatment at MGMGH. Diagnosis of H1N1 at the early stage and proper treatment will lead to complete recovery, Mary Lilly said. "We recently saved two children admitted in the early stage of H1N1," she added.
 
