KUALA LUMPUR: Discipline remains the key word under Head Coach Maymol Rocky as the Indian Women’s Team gears up to take on Malaysia in the   on Monday, the kick-off of which at the MP Selayang Stadium is at IST 6.15pm.
 
 Known for her strict approach, Maynol's coaching mannerisms break the stereotypical ways of training for women footballers. Under her, there have been plenty of new additions. "We have introduced fines in this camp. Whenever someone commits any wrong, she is fined," Maymol, the first ever Indian woman coach in charge of the Senior Women's Team said. 
 
 "Imparting discipline within the squad stayed a priority. Unless you get the pinch, you never learn,” she adds.
 
 The girls don’t mind it as they understand "it's for a cause." Defender Dalima Chhibber, former Captain Indian U-19 Women’s Team is one of the many who embraces her uniqueness. "It unites us. The team bonding becomes better. It makes you more disciplined. It’s fun, but at the same time, it pinches your pocket. It’s up to us to avoid the fines," she says in one breath.
  
 Keeping in tune with not taking things lightly off the field, Maymol wants the same kind of a smooth transition when the girls play on Monday. "We won't be taking them lightly. They are a strong side. Once you are complacent, you will pay the price," Maymol said. "They are playing at home. It's a big stadium. It's advantage Malaysia."
 
 The Indian squad is a conglomeration of exuberant youth and experience, one that Maymol was done keeping the upcoming talents in mind. "Around 10 players have come up the ranks through the age groups. The average age of the side has gone down considerably. Barring around three, all the 
 rest are below 25," she said.
  
 As the cars zipped through the KL Highway, the relaxed bunch of "disciplined" girls, most of whom are from small towns, gazed at the lighted skyscrapers from the window panes of the Team Bus. "We wanted to take their minds off the game a bit. Hence, we took them to the Petronas twin towers. You also need to relax a bit," the coach said.
  
 Maymol wasn't much willing to read into the   Rankings. ''Not that we are a weak Team. But I never go into FIFA Rankings. We are aware of the development made by Malaysia. But we are confident as a Team,'' she said.
  
 Pointing at Captain Bala Devi, sitting next, Maymol further stated: ''She has a habit of scoring goals in almost every match.''
  
 'Will you score tomorrow?' ''It's not about who scores as long as we score. We have specific roles assigned to us and we need to execute it to perfection,'' the India skipper said.
  
 India is scheduled to lock their horns with Malaysia tomorrow (July 31, 2017) 06:15 PM IST.
 
