NEW DELHI:The pavement area outside the Reserve Bank of India swarms with animated people. Cops enforce order to ensure that the queue stays straight. It is the last day for the exchange of old currency notes but the offer is only for NRIs. But there are many in the queue who don’t belong to that category. Some say they have been making the rounds for days nursing an improbable hope that their money won’t go waste. Here are four brief profiles of those who turned up outside the RBI gates on Friday:

 
 
 
 Pervez, 33, works as a plumber in Oman’s Al Busra company. He saves and repatriates Rs 24,000 every month. Pervez likes the job, except that he can’t come back on a short notice. When demonetisation happened on Nov 8, 2016, Pervez realised that he had kept Rs 16,000 in a locked room back in Bihar. But he didn’t sweat over it much. “I get leave every two years and I had come to India last in June 2015.
 
 So getting a leave would have been difficult. In any case, it didn’t make sense to fly back for such an amount. But more importantly, I didn’t think that returning Rs 16,000 would be a major problem,” he says.
 
 For the past five days Pervez has been trying to submit the money but to no avail. He didn’t have his passport stamped by the customs, a proof that he was abroad during the demonetisation period. “There must be some other way I can deposit these notes,” says a distraught Pervez.
 
 
 
 
 The 62-year-old sadhu from South Delhi’s Kalkaji shows a torn kurta with a number of holes. “Rats chewed my kurta.
 
 They also nibbled at the Rs 70,000 that I had kept in one of the pockets,” Yadav says. He then pulls out a bunch of Rs 500 and 1,000 notes, some frayed at the edges. He says the money was his life-long saving. “For the past 10 days I have been trying to get them exchanged but the officers say that it cannot be done,” Yadav says resignedly. Then he looks around and asks no one in particular “Can anyone help?”
 
 
 
 
 Singh lives in a two storeyed home in west Delhi’s Patel Nagar. The former employee of a private electronics firm lives on the ground floor. His two sons occupied the other two floors. “One of my sons, who lived on the first floor, died of a brain haemorrhage in 2013,” Pritpal says. In a legal battle that followed, one of the rooms in the first floor was locked. In Feb 2017, when a court order allowed him to look into the room, he found Rs 10,500 in old currency.
 
 By that time, the notes had become invalid. “I have come here at least 10 times since then. But I have been told that I cannot exchange the money because the offer is open only to NRIs. Tell me what can I do now?”.
 
 
 
 
 Trehan owns a number of purses that she uses alternatingly.
 
 Four days ago, she discovered Rs 7,000 in old currency in one of her purses. She had kept the money there and forgotten all about it right through the demonetisation days. “It is kind of funny,” she said. Trehan wasn’t aware that only NRIs were allowed to exchange old notes now and had driven from Gurgaon to the RBI office on Parliament Street hoping they would be exchanged. But was turned away.
 
 
 
