HYDERABAD: A class 10 student of   at Midjil in Mahbubnagar who had snapped his math teacher sleeping in class was allegedly tied to a volleyball post and thrashed by two cops, including the sub-inspector, allegedly at the behest of some teachers on Saturday. But   denied the boy was hit and claimed he was caught consuming alcohol on school premises. The boy had bruises all over his body. 

 "The boy had taken the sleeping teacher's photo on July 27 and forwarded it to the Mahbubnagar   (DEO) on WhatsApp. The next day the DEO suspended teacher K Ramulu,"   honorary president   said.
 
  Irked by the expose, some teachers decided to 'teach him a lesson' and contacted SI Saidulu who, along with ASI Jahangir, went to the school on Saturday and beat him up with a stick, Rao claimed.
 
 According to the student, he and his friends, who were in a student committee, were discussing activities they had planned for the school.
 
 “We had pooled money and bo ught a Thums Up. When we saw the cops, others managed to run away but they caught me, tied me to the volleyball post and beat me with a stick,“ the student said in an audio message to the NGO . The boy , who had injuries on his legs, arms and buttocks, alleged that when he went to the police station later he was abused and the cops took away his cell phone.
 
 The NGO has demanded suspension of the two police officers. Mahbubnagar SP Rema Rajeswari, who has ordered an inquiry into the incident by deputy SP Bhaskar Goud, said that contrary to the NGO's complaint, the student and a few others were found consuming alcohol at the school.
 
 “Police acted on a complaint from the school management that some people were consuming alcohol on their premises. If the boy was hit or slapped by the police officers, we will take action as per law,“ she added.
 
 But Rao said there was an attempt to water down the investigation and clear police personnel of any child abuse charges. “The injury marks are those made by sticks used by policemen. And even if he was consuming alcohol, police still cannot beat up a child,“ Rao said. Barely a fortnight ago two SIs were caught on camera manhandling a shop-keeper in Khammam, with one of them even brandishing his service revolver.
 
 
