NEW DELHI:   does not like the word 'repeat'. After taming the tenacious  , the girl from Hyderabad was asked whether the title showdown will be a repeat of Rio, since she will be facing   in the final of the Yonex Sunrise   on Sunday.

 Promptly, she corrected that notion with a smile, saying, "I won't like it to be a repeat." Her audience rolled in laughter, but stood corrected.
 
 It was like Sindhu's approach to a stinging smash. Taking a couple of steps back, the lanky girl goes up in the air and brings her racket down with fierce power. The shuttle feels the heat. Sindhu's arching smash is one of the most exhilarating sights in sport.
 
 The final in Rio in August 2016 earned Sindhu the status of a superstar, even though she lost to the hard-hitting Spanish sensation. In December later that year, as Sindhu pointed out, she had beaten Marin in the Dubai Open league phase. "She knows my game and so do I. But it is never the same. Nothing can be taken for granted. I will give my best and I believe I can win in front of my home fans."
 
 It was a strenuous and exhausting 76-minute exchange on Sunday evening at the   when Sindhu took charge, then soaked in the counter and finally punched a hole in Sung Ji Hyun's defences to win 21-18, 14-21, 21-14. From a delicate backhand flick to repeated use of the smashes, Sindhu used her whole array of strokes to prevail.
 
 "I was prepared for a long haul. She is a rally player and I knew I will be stretched," Sindhu said. Her opponent in the final Carolina Marin spent exactly 40 minutes in the court to give Japan's Akane Yamaguchi a quick send off. Marin won 21-16, 21-14. "Whoever makes the final, it will be an interesting one. If it's Sindhu, she will get the home support. But I too have made some fans, it seems," Marin had said after her match, scheduled before Sindhu's.
 
 Earlier, hopes of an all-Danish men's finals were scotched by the inexperience of  , coupled with the retrieve-everything motto of  . The two men's semifinals started off in Court 1 and 2, just ten minutes apart. Even though the tournament's top seed   played the undercard, Antonsen must have disappointed his countrymen with a game that needs to be tightened. Service going long or hitting the net during close combat -against an enemy as tenacious as Chou from Chinese Taipei -is a surefire recipe for disaster. Just 19, Antonsen has shown glimpses of becoming a decent top-10 player. But, not this time. The young Dane lost 17-21, 14-21.
 
 Axelson, who won the Rio Olympic bronze denying Lin Dan, brooked no challenge from his Hong Kong opponent. Just like the other day against  , Axelson opened up big leads with his fast-paced game and harried NG Long, finishing in exactly 28 minutes, winning 21-12, 21-13.
 
 Chou now has the unenviable task of stopping Axelson to break his India Open jinx. He made the last two finals where his journey was cut short by Srikanth and Japan's Kento Momota.
 
