It’s   and the Hindus of the state will mark their new year with much merriment and devotion with folk plays, dances and songs playing a big role in the celebration. 

 Historically, Gudi Padwa commemorates the commencement of the Shaka Era started by the king Gautamiputra Satakarni by defeating Sakas in the battle in 78th AD. 
 
 Traditionally, however, the festival has marked the end of one agricultural season (rabi, autumn agriculture) and the commencement of a new one (spring agriculture). After all, India is pre-dominantly an agrarian society, and festivals associated with farming culture are many.
 
 Anita Shetye from Porvorim says: “Gudhi Padawa is one of the most auspicious of occasions. It is not only a religious festival, but marks the commencement of spring. Neem leaves, a mango leaves and a garland of red flowers are tied to the tip of a long bamboo on which a copper pot is placed in the inverted position.”
 
 Some even tie a coconut on the threshold of their homes to protect to members of the family from evil spirits.
 
 There are also a number of traditions that deviate from the ordinary associated with the observance, of which shisharanni of Asali and Vaizawadi in Canacona is one that stands out. 
 
 In this, rice is cooked in an earthen pot on a traditional three-stone fire stove, only here three heads substitute the stones! Shisharanni is held once every three years. 
 
 Then there is the dinya zatra that is celebrated by unmarried tribal Velip youth. They dance around the Mallikarjun temple holding a staff fashion out of the dina (Leea indica) plant. In the community, participation in the dance is mandatory. 
 
 There is also the bathing of the symbolic representation of the clan’s ancestor, locally known as ‘purush’, which is followed in many parts of the state. 
 
 Food is an important aspect of this festival too, and Shreya Kelkar of Latambarcem in Bicholim says, “According to beliefs, whatever you prepare and eat on this day will set the tone for the upcoming year’s culinary fare, which is why all Hindu families prepare a delicious spread.”
 
 Post the feasting, in some parts of Goa there is a custom of reading the annual almanac (panchang) in the evening. The villagers gather in the temple hall where the village priest reads out predictions related to the weather, eclipses, and shares information on auspicious times (muhurta).
 
 
