CHENNAI: When rasikas were soaking in soulful music at Pattu kutcheris across the city during the  , a parallel stage offered to take audience on a trip back in time — a time when the Pallava kings reigned and the city of Mamallapuram was built. The event was a two-day annual seminar on the art of Mamallapuram organised by Tamil Heritage Trust at Tamil Virtual Academy. The trust is a brainchild of S Swaminathan, a former IIT Delhi professor.

 Temple historian Chitra Madhavan explained how Pallava temple architecture evolved from cave temples to rathas to structured temples (built of stones) between the 6th and the 7th centuries. G Sankaranarayanan, an expert in sila sastras, Tamil and Sanskrit literature, and indology spoke about the Sanskrit inscriptions of the Pallavas including the Birudas (honorific titles) of Pallava kings, and the longer poems on stone. 
 
 One of the most interesting lectures was by  , a young IT professional who left a lucrative job in the US to study the heritage and art of India. In his presentation on ‘2000 Years of Mamallapuram — Sangam to 1960s’ he spoke at length about historians and archeologists who extensively researched on The Seven Pagodas. Some of them were not even architects, but studied the temple architecture of Mamallapuram and wrote books on their findings. John Goldingham, an astronomer of the Madras Observatory (1802) who tabulated the inscriptions on the monuments,  , who analysed the Hindu temple architecture and Alexander Rea (1909), who had a prominent role in the excavation, are a few to name.
 
 A dance drama by Swarnamalya Ganesh, based on the composition of Pallava king Mahendravarman’s farcical plays ‘Mattavilasa’ (the sport of a drunken man) and ‘Bhagavadajjukam’ (a saint and a prostitute), was a major attraction of the first day. It was an attempt to show that Mahendravarman was not only a king who built temples, but was a writer who captured the milieu of the age effectively in his works. Mahendravarman in the play is depicted as a Vicitracitra (one who gets ideas out of the blue) and Mattavilasa (from a drunken man’s perspective) — an attempt that reflects the king’s ability to laugh at himself through his works. The dialogues were in English, borrowed from Michael Lockwood’s translation of Mahendravarma’s works. 
 
 On the second day, M Balusami, a professor of Tamil at Madras Christian College, known for his extensive research on the Great Penance panel in Mamallapuram, spoke on the various representations of goddess Durga in Mallai (Mamallapuram), calling it ‘korkai nanre’ (durga is good). 
 
 Starting from the concept of Durga and how she was worshiped in different forms in the 7th century CE, Balusami explained her progression from various cave temples to monolith rathas, bas reliefs and structural temples. Various stages of the goddess’ battle with demon king Mahishasura is depicted in different locations of Mallai starting from the Mahishashuramardhini Mandapam.
 
 Calling the four great panels at Mamallapuram as ‘Rasiga Ahapporul’ (rasika’s delight), Swaminathan said more than remembering the king who built them, one should remember and pay obeisance to the ‘stapati’ (sculptor) who carved it to perfection.
 
 (The author is a history enthusiast and a writer of several books)
 
