MUMBAI: Hero MotoCorp has renewed its title sponsorship deal with   (ISL), the men’s professional football league owned by IMG-Reliance and Star India, for three years.
 
  Hero, which has been the title sponsor for the league since its inception in 2014, will be shelling out $25 million in the next three years, announced  , chairperson, Football   Development Limited (FSDL), on Sunday before the players’ draft.
  
  "It is going to be an exciting new journey, a longer season, kicking off this November. Both in terms of number of matches moving up from 61 to 95 and the   from two and a half months to five months. The longer season will ensure sufficient rest for players between the matches and will help in the quality of play getting better. I am also happy that we are seeing greater interest from corporates to be associated with ISL," she said.
  
  In its fourth season, ISL will have a longer format with two additional teams, Jamshedpur FC and  , making ISL a 10-team league. Ambani said that India is undergoing a football renaissance and that the newer, longer league would be more exciting and player-friendly.
  
  "A very special welcome to the two new clubs – Jamshedpur FC promoted by   and Bengaluru FC promoted by JSW. The Tatas have had a rich legacy of promoting football in India. The Jindals have a strong fan base in Bengaluru and have been a great supporter of Indian football. We are delighted to have both these groups join Hero ISL and I am sure this partnership and support will further strengthen our league," she added.
  
  Listing out the achievements of the ISL over the last three seasons, Ambani said that the league had "rekindled" love for the beautiful game in India, which now ranks 96th in the world from 173 in 2015.
  
  
  
 
  Meanwhile, during the players’ draft, 134 players got drafted across ISL clubs with a combined salary of Rs 37.33 crore. Including the spend on retained players, total spend by clubs was recorded at Rs 48.85 crore.
  
  At the end of the day, Bengaluru FC emerged as the most invested club on Indian players with a spend of INR 6.01 Crore on 17 players, followed by   Blasters FC spending INR 5.93 crore of their purse over 16 Indian players. Jamshedpur FC and Two-time ISL champions ATK (Atlético de Kolkata) picked up costliest players - defender Anas Edathodika and midfielder Eugeneson Lyngdoh, respectively, for Rs 1.1 crore each.
  
  Goa FC spent the least amount, Rs 2.6 crore, for 13 players. But when it comes to the lowest money per player, it was FC Pune City, which only paid Rs 2.7 crore for their 14 players.
  
  The fourth season of Hero Indian Super League – which will kick off on 17th November 2017, will feature 25 of the 29 Indian National Players including stars like Sunil Chhettri, Jeje, Eugeneson, Jackichand, Sandesh, Pritam, Subrata Paul and Jayesh donning colours of their respective teams over an extended 5 months League.
