PUNE: At least 12 policemen were at the receiving end of rule violators since January 1, casting a shadow on people’s respect for law.

 As many as five policemen — four in Manjri and one in Vimannagar — were manhandled over petty disputes on Sunday night alone. In Manjri, four policemen were manhandled and abused near the   around 7.30pm. Around four hours on, a cop of the Airport police station was abused and manhandled over a petty dispute near   around 11.15pm.
 
 Condemning the incidents, joint commissioner of police Sunil Ramanand on Monday said, “Attacks on policemen is a matter of grave concern and will be dealt with due seriousness. A policeman, on account of uniform, is the most visible representative of the government. An attack on him/her amounts to an attempt to undermine the authority of the state.”
 
 Sub-inspector Rahul Ghuge of the Hadapsar police station said on Monday, “Beat marshal Hanumant Dubhate and his colleague were on patrol duty. They spotted four men fighting with each other near the Bank of India in Manjri. The cops intervened in the dispute, appealed to them to maintain peace and warned them against creating law and order problem. The suspects ignored the warning and picked up a dispute with the cops. They allegedly abused the men in uniform and asked why they would listen to the cops when they never listened to their parents. The also said the road did not belong to the police.”
 
 According to Ghuge, when efforts to pacify the troublemakers proved futile, two more policemen rushed to the spot for handling the situation, but in vain. The four persons were in no mood to listen to the cops. They abused and pushed the policemen and threatened them with dire consequences.
 
 “The suspects were later arrested for attacking policemen. They were produced before the Pune cantonment court and released on bail,” he said.
 
 In Vimannagar, police naik Parmeshwar Mane of the Airport police station found   (29) from Lohegaon creating nuisance while patrolling the area. When Mane asked him to behave, the cop was manhandled.
 
 Senior inspector Sanjay Naik-Patil, the in-charge of the Airport police station, said on Monday, “Mane appealed to Tingre not to create nuisance in public place and asked him to leave. But, Tingre picked up a dispute, manhandled Mane and pushed him down. Tingre was later arrested and released on bail.”
 
