Jaipur: J K Lon, state’s biggest child speciality hospital, which is the first to launch a   academic programme in the country, has now prompted the health department to take steps in formulating rare disease policy. 

 “We were the first to launch a rare disease programme and will be the first to formulate a policy on it,” health minister Kalicharan Saraf. He was addressing a gathering during a programme on ‘8th international rare disease day’ held at J K Lon hospital on Friday. 
 
 Rare diseases are a group of diseases which are not common. Since their treatment is expensive, the patients depend on charity and donation for treatment.
 
 According to the health experts, only one in 60,000 suffer from rare diseases. Currently, only 7 out of 49 cases of lysosomal storage disorder are treatable, experts said.
 
 “At J K Lon hospital, we are providing treatment to a two-year-old boy, who is suffering from a rare disease, Gaucher. He is the only patient getting treatment in J K Lon as the cost of treatment is quite high. He is receiving ‘highly expensive’ enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) at our rare disease clinic. Since the cost of the treatment is quite high, it is supported by ESI,” J K Lon superintendent Dr Ashok Gupta said. 
 
 The cost of one dose of ERT is around Rs 1.25 lakh at the clinic. A patient has to get two such doses every month during his entire life till any other alternate modality is invented for the treatment of the disease.
 
 “If the state government forms the policy, it will ensure that the patients of rare diseases get treatment,” said Rajendra Tyagi, vice president, lysosomal storage disorder support society.
 
 The treatment of this diseases is known as ERT. When some enzyme is missing in body, it causes the lysosomal storage disorder. Its treatment is available in the country, but its cost is high.
 
 Lysosomal storage disorders are life threatening if not treated. 
 
 In the state, six such patients have died as they did not get the treatment. At present, there are 19 identified patients suffering from lysosomal storage disorder. Six patients are getting treatment though charity programme but 13 are still without treatment.
 
 Box
 
 New facilities at J K Lon
 
 Health minister Kalicharan Saraf inaugurated a 36-bedded emergency unit in the J K Lon hospital on Friday. He also inaugurated a cancer care ward and a critical care ambulance in the hospital for children. Besides, he also announced that he would provide Rs 30 lakh to J K Lon hospital from his MLA funds.
 
 
