JAIPUR: The   (SOG) of Rajasthan police have found more details about the modus operandi of the   which honey trapped wealthy individuals for crores of rupees.

 According to SOG, the gang would organise lavish parties at farmhouses located in the outskirts of the city. At these parties, gang members would introduce girls to high-profile clients.
 
 According to additional SP  , one of the accused confessed to SOG sleuths during interrogation that they had trapped several people at such parties.
 
 “Lavish parties where costly liquor was served added to the glitz and glamour and helped in trapping several people. Here, gang members would introduce rich builders or doctors to a girl as a friend,” he added.
 
 Gang members like Akshat Sharma would monitor which person is gullible or not. “For these parties, girls were brought from several parts of the country. Gang members would introduce a girl as a mutual friend and she would engage the person and set up another meeting. The girl would pose as a buyer interested in real estate or as a patient. Every call made from phones was saved too for blackmail,” cops said.
 
 These facts came to light after the SOG arrested one Ravneet Kaur, a 26-year-old NRI woman who allegedly trapped about six to seven people. Kaur and other accused like Akshat Sharma were brought face to face for detailed interrogation.
 
 “Primary investigation revealed that the kingpin, Akshat Sharma, used to hire farm houses at secluded places. The parties were closely guarded and only a select few would be invited for a fun night. Sharma would also urge potential victims to come along with their other high profile friends,” cops said.
 
 “Kaur’s arrest it crucial in the case is she was used by the gang to target high-profile clients for extortion,” cops said.
 
 In another development in the case on Friday, the cops said that gang leaders such as Akshat and Vijay claimed that they had given about Rs 1 crore to Kaur. But she countered their claims and alleged that she had received a smaller amount for blackmailing.
 
 “There were contradictions in their statements, allegations and counter allegations. Therefore, we will get to no actual facts only through sustained interrogation. We have nabbed several gang members,” Sharma said.
 
 He added that after the gang was busted by the SOG on December 24, several victims have contacted the SOG to share information.
 
 
