Indore: 50 new water supply tanks are set to come up to facilitate proper water supply to all parts of the city. A recent survey conducted by Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) has come up with information on places where the tanks will be constructed. Officials said that most of the tanks will be new. “We have received the survey from a private company that we had given the tenders to. We have agreed on most of the locations and will take a final decision in the next fifteen days,” said Balram Verma, head of water works department, IMC. The focus of the survey was to ensure water supply to areas that do not have tanks and pipelines. The 29 newly-inducted villages would also be covered under the plan. While several people have already started living in the area, they have been complaining about the lack of basic amenities. The mayor in her budget speech had also laid special emphasis on the need to develop these areas. Officials said that the civic body for the first time had used GPS technology to check the viability of these locations. “We have got a great response through this new technology. While locations mapped by the survey company is apt, we have suggested some changes at few locations as ground work like laying pipelines in the area may not be feasible,” Verma said. Officials said the work will be done in three phases. Twenty tanks will be constructed in the first and second phase each and the remaining ones will be constructed in the third phase. IMC had planned to do a survey earlier but due to technical issues they could not complete it. Officials said the mayor has given strict instructions to complete the work in time. The civic body has already begun work to change pipelines in 17 wards. Officials of the department had conducted a survey and came up with a list of places where pipes needed to be changed. IMC is planning to link the city’s water tanks with hydraulic modelling and SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition), which will allow the corporation to stop overhead tanks from overflowing and detect leaks in feeder and distribution lines. Areas where new tanks will be constructed: • Talawali Chanda • Hawa Bangla • Palda • Nipaniya • Bada bangarda • Navlakha • Kanadia • Bhuri Tekri • Nayta Mundla • Banganga • Limbodi • Sukh Niwas • Hukma Khedi • Bilawali • Bada Bandara • Chota Bangardara