: Shambhavi Parsekar’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. The youngster has barely slept for three hours a day since the election schedule for Goa was declared. After all, she has taken up the responsibility of around 2,500 female voters in her father and Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar’s constituency, Mandrem.
 
  An English teacher at a local higher secondary school by day, Shambhavi has been representing her father in Mandrem, while he takes care of the state from his official residence in Panaji.
  
  Campaigning for elections, however, is an entirely different ball game. “As the constituency has a higher proportion of female voters, campaigning effectively with them is crucial,” says Shambhavi, who was just a child when her father was first elected in 2002, but has picked up the ropes since he won the current term.
  
  Help for her comes in the form of the CM’s two nephews, Sagar Parab, a lawyer by profession and Ashish Parsekar, a law student.
  
  
  Deputy chief minister and Mapua MLA Francis D’Souza’s helping hand is his 28-year-old son Joshua, who is also a councillor with Mapusa muncipality. Joshua has been putting in five to six hours a day to campaign for his father. Covering homes and commercial establishments across Mapusa by foot is tough, Joshua admits, especially since he also juggles his two businesses and duties as councillor.
  
  
  Congress president Luizinho Faleiro’s trusted soldiers are his businessmen sons Ravi and Lenin. Though Ravi is known to be active in managing his father’s affairs behind the scenes, he does not like to speak about his role in the campaign, choosing instead to maintain a low profile.
  
  Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal, an engineer by qualifications, has been tagging along for corner meetings. His actual involvement in canvassing though is unknown.
  
  It’s not just the offsprings. Panaji MLA Siddharth Kuncalienkar’s wife Sonia actively uses social media to garner support for her husband, while Fatorda MLA and Goa Forward Party’s   constantly has wife Usha at his side during public meetings.
