BHOPAL:   is likely to bring about legislative changes that would make provisions for   for offenders in cases relating to crime against women. These laws would be the toughest in the country. Need for tough laws has been felt after the state registered the highest rate of   in the country and being labelled as rape capital of country for several years.

 During the  ' at Sandiya village in Hoshangabad district on January 12, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a pitch for capital punishment to rapists. Chouhan made the statements in the backdrop to reference on increasing crimes against women.
 
 “Deliberations should be held across the country for a stringent law that allows awarding death penalty to rapists. Political parties, saints and social activists should initiate action in this direction,” Chouhan had said.
 
 Top officials of the state swung into action after chief minister’s statement and have started working in the direction to come up with tough provisions in laws. Officials said IPC needs to be amended to give capital punishment for rapist and the state government cannot do it all alone, but the existing punishment for various crime against women can certainly be made stricter. Efforts have been initiated for the same, they said.
 
 What government intends is to ensure that an accused even in cases of sexual harassment, apart from rape do not get bail before 90 days and prosecution must be heard before granting bail to accused in any crime against women. Besides, stricter punishment are being planned particularly in cases of sexual assault on minors. The new proposal and amendments would drafted at the secretariat and police headquarters level and will be forwarded to the law department. Finally it would be placed before the state cabinet and assembly before being enacted.
 
 Officials in the know of things told TOI, that effort is to complete the process as soon as possible, probably in less than a year, since the chief minister himself has expressed the willingness of doing so. If the new law gets enacted, Madhya Pradesh would be among the states with the toughest provisions for crime against women, officials said.
 
 The state’s former director general of police SC Tripathi said state government has the powers to make changes under the criminal law. Law and order is a state subject. The state cannot reduce the quantum of punishment as mentioned in IPC, but can certainly make it more stringent, Tripathi added.
 
 Advocate Ajay Gupta said the state government has the powers to amend the laws, but only making laws or amending it will not bring down crime against women. Need is to train the policemen for effective implementation of laws. Besides, it has been noticed that laws sometimes are more misused then used, he added.
 
 The National Crime Record Bureau’s (NCRB) report released in August last year, Madhya Pradesh retained its shameful tag of being the rape capital of the country with 4,391 cases reported during 2015. The state was followed by Maharashtra (4,144), Rajasthan (3,644) and Uttar Pradesh (2,934). A total of 34,556 rape cases were registered across the country during the period covered by the survey.
 
