MUMBAI: Taking the one nation, one exam to the next level, the   has now decided that there will be a single centralised admission process to all its colleges and for all quotas, including the management and NRI share of seats.

 A landmark amendment now promises that respective state governments will conduct   and admission to all   in institutes that were out of their ambit - private universities, deemed universities, minority institutes. In fact, being futuristic in approach, the act also covers institutes that may be set up by companies.
 
 “Merit and nothing else will be the consideration,” says Arun Singhal, joint secretary of the department of health and family welfare. “This amendment covers all kinds of medical institutes and even seats under the management quota and NRI quota must be submitted to the state government for counselling and common admission,” he says.
 
 But as soon as the MCI notification was out, lobbying from the community of deemed universities started. States are locking horns over the interpretation of the notice and governments of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have stated that according to their understanding, “all admission” as mentioned by the MCI does not include the NRI seats. 
 
 Some other states have responded by stating that there is no NRI share in their colleges. Some other like Maharashtra have sought legal opinion from the state government to clarify their reading in the matter.
 
 The MCI notice states, “The counseling for all admission to MBBS Course in all Medical Educational Institutions in a State/Union Territory, including Medical Educational
 
 Institutions established by the Central Government, State Government, University, Deemed University, Trust, Society/Minority Institutions/Corporations or a Company shall be conducted by the State/Union Territory Government. Such common counseling shall be under the over-all superintendence, direction and control of the State/Union Territory Government.” A similar notice has been released for post graduate admissions. Only the 15% all-India quota seats would be admitted by the centre. 
 
 With focus on merit, the medical education will hence be healed of corrupt practices, exam forgery, fake candidates taking entrance tests and cash donations that have been the norm in several colleges, say insiders. The vast possibility of merit, say experts, promises much more than just an ethical breed of medical graduates.
 
 “Students will also not be required to go to many places and submit their original documents and that makes the admission process convenient,” adds Singhal. Deemed universities of Maharashtra have already sent several communications to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research over the fact that the NRI quota does not fall under the state’s ambit. “I have sought legal opinion from the state about their stand and I am awaiting their response,” says DMER head Dr Pravin Shingare.
 
 
