BHOPAL: After three years of being fat-shamed on social media, inspector   can now have a weight taken off his shoulders. Madhya Pradesh police has decided to sponsor his bariatric surgery to help him cut flab.

 Jogawat, who says he started putting on weight after developing some medical problems, is distressed after a photo that started doing the rounds a couple of years ago resurfaced earlier this week. Some organisations, including a beauty-cum-fitness centre, stepped forward to help Jogawat reduce weight, but the welfare wing of the state police opted to tie up with Dr Mohint Bhandari, director of Mohak Bariatrics & Robotics, Indore, for a gastric bypass surgery, popular as stomach-stapling. 
 
 Chief of the police welfare wing, Sayed Mohammad Afzal, told reporters on Friday that the inspector is ready to undergo bariatric surgery. The department offered to bear the expenses but the doctor agreed to do it for free with funds from their corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. 
 
 “I felt really bad when I saw his (Jogawat’s) picture doing the rounds in social media. We knew him personally since he was undergoing treatment at our hospital,” said Dr Bhandari. Jogawat, who is due to retire in 2019, told TOI that he is annoyed that his pictures are being used to shaming police. 
 
 Jogawat weighs around 180kg and the surgery would have been every expensive, he pointed out. “We have arranged for Rs 15 lakh from the Sri Aurobindo Trust and won’t be charging anything from him,” said the doctor who has performed hundreds of weight-loss surgeries in the last five years. All necessary tests have been completed and Jogawat will be admitted on March 7, he said. The surgery is expected to be over two days later.
 
 Dr Bhandari said that he is in touch with senior police officers, including ADG Afzal and Neemuch SP Manoj Singh. Jogawat himself is frustrated over his picture being floated with funny captions on social media. The photo was back in limelight when it was tweeted by celebrity columnist and author Shobhaa De who did not know of his medical condition and mistook him for a Mumbai cop. Her tweet triggered controversy and Mumbai Police pointed out to her that it wasn’t one of their men. 
 
