GUWAHATI: A central inter-ministerial team - headed by V Shashanka Sekhar, joint secretary of the Union home ministry - will visit Assam from July 25 to July 28 to assess the flood situation and erosion-affected areas of the state. 

 The seven-member team will comprise top officials from the Union ministries of home affairs, water resources, finance, expenditure, road transport and highways, rural development, NITI Aayog, and agriculture and cooperation.
 
 The team will make on-the-spot assessments of the situation during its visits. "The visiting team will inspect flood- and erosion-affected areas of Biswanath, Lakhimpur, Majuli, Barpeta, Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi, and interact with officials of respective district administrations," an official statement said.
 
 On Monday, the flood situation showed signs of improvement. Compared to some 58,000 people affected on Sunday, the Assam State   Authority (ASDMA) said the number of flood-hit people came down to 29,242 on Monday.
 
 The number of relief camp inmates also came down to 4,621 on Monday from 8,294 on Sunday, with many of the displaced people going back to their houses following improvement of flood situation.
 
 However, 10 districts in the state are still affected by floods, while the Dhansiri river at Numaligarh in Golaghat district continued to flow above the danger level on Monday. 
 
 The current wave of flood that hit the state this month has already killed 76 people. 
 
 The deluge has left 2,08,932 hectare cropland in 29 districts damaged. Moreover, the flood has also damaged roads, bridges and flood-protection embankments in several parts of the state. 
 
 Even as the flood situation has improved overall, soil erosion continues to wreak havoc in the state.
 
 The state has lost more than four lakh hectare land since 1950 due to erosion, mainly by the Brahmaputra.
 
 On the other hand, flood-hit people on Monday staged protests in different parts of the state to vent their anger over inadequate relief provided by the government .
 
 The state government however, denied that there has been any inadequacy in providing relief materials to the affected people. 
 
 ASDMA said that since the current wave of flood hit the state, 61,004 quintal of rice, 11,545 quintal of pulse, 3,702 quintal of salt and 38,202 quintal of mustard oil have been provided to the affected people. 
 
 
