HYDERABAD: Thursday was a day for VIP misbehaviour.

 While Shiv Sena MP was triggering national outrage by using his slipper to beat an Air India official, AICC secretary  , a former MP from  , allegedly hurled casteist abuse at a police inspector while trying to storm into the “Media Point” in the state assembly.
 
 The former   member, who has courted controversy in the past, was caught on camera warning a police officer after being stopped from entering the “Media Point” on Thursday.
 
 Sudhakar, an inspector on bandobast duty, had told Rao only MLAs and MLCs were allowed to speak to the media in the designated area.
 
 After the officer, a native of Miryalguda and currently posted at Kamatipura police station in Hyderabad, took to social media on Friday to express his angst and offered to quit to protest against the humiliation, a criminal case was lodged against the politician. He was booked under IPC Sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation).
 
 When Rao was stopped by the cop, he warned him and ordered him to show him the rule book. “You people have made Dharna Chowk out of bounds for protesters and now I am being banned from entry into the Media Point. Are we living in a democracy or a dictatorship? Who are you to stop me? I am secretary of the   and I will definitely address reporters,” the former MP said.
 
 The police officer pleaded that he was only informing the former MP about the rules and was not curbing his movement. “I also saluted  ,” the officer said.
 
 Referring to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the Congress leader said the CM had used the same rally ground for agitations during the statehood movement. “Now, protests are not allowed. Tomorrow, Gun Park will also be out of bounds,” he said, adding that while the CM holds meetings at his camp office and triggers traffic jams in the city, citizens have been banished to the outskirts if they want to hold a protest.
 
 Thursday was not the first time Hanumantha Rao had courted controversy. He had targeted governor E S L Narasimhan in April last year, claiming that the governor’s frequent temple visits inconvenienced other devotees.
 
 He had also said that when the President visits Tirumala, it is a dignified event, but the governor “roams” about without wearing a shirt.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the assembly fracas, Hanumantha Rao said the police officer’s threat to resign was politically motivated. “I have the right to address the media in the designated place. When he objected, I asked him to show me orders. In the assembly, only the speaker can give orders and marshals can act on the speaker’s directions, and police have no rights,” he said.
 
