CHENNAI:   officials on Friday morning began searches on several premises belonging to   health minister   and his relatives in Chennai and other districts in the wake of complaints that he was involved in cash distribution to voters in RK Nagar constituency where a byelection will be held on April 12. 

 They were also conducting searches on the premises of actor and All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi leader R Sarathkumar, former AIADMK legislator Chitlapakkam Rajendran and vice-chancellor of Dr MGR Medical University S Geethalakshmi. 
 
 On Thursday, Sarathkumar met AIADMK (Amma) candidate in RK Nagar TTV Dhinakaran extended support to him.
 
  
  
 
  
  is the first minister to come under IT searches in recent times.
  
 "The minister and his relatives were on the radar of the income tax department. In the last few days, we have received complaints that the minister was directly involved in distribution of cash to voters in R K Nagar," a senior I-T investigation wing official told TOI.
  
 Four complaints have been filed against the minister since the byelection date was announced in R K Nagar.
  
 In Chennai, 19 places were being searched. In districts like Trichy and Pudukottai, 13 places were being searched. 
  
 "The searches are being conducted in stone quarries, at colleges and on residential premises of the minister and his close relatives," said the official.
 
 The searches started at 6am.
  
 Vijayabaskar has been in the limelight since the AIADMK split into two factions with former chief minister O Panneerselvam accusing him of siding with V K Sasikala and her family members and pressurising him to quit.
 
 Four CRPF men were providing security for 10 income tax officials who were searching Vijayabaskar’s official residence on the Greenways Road here.
 
 Later, food and civil supplies minister R Kamaraj and AIADMK leader Thalavai Sundaram had a heated argument with CRPF personnel posted outside health minister’s residence. They were seen trying to enter his house. 
 
 CRPF officials told Kamaraj that IT rules prohibit entry of others into a place where   is going on. However, Kamaraj kept on saying that the   should be allowed to leave as he had to do poll campaign.
 
 
 
 
 Raids were conducted on five locations in Pudukkottai, including his residence.
 
 A 50-member team carried out raids in these locations guarded by a 30-member armed paramilitary team. 
 
 Raids were conducted at the office of a quarry in Thiruvengaivasal run by his father R Chinnathambi, his educational intuitions and a lodge.
 
 Supporters of the minister gathered outside the house alleging conspiracy by Paneerselvam and the central government to malign the reputation of Vijayabaskar. Vijayabaskar's father was allowed to come out of the house. He asked his son’s supporters to keep calm and not disrupt the raids. He said there was nothing to hide.
 
