 have fallen during the first quarter of this calendar year in comparison to the January-March period in 2016. Both fatalities and crashes have decreased by at least 7 per cent, according to the data shared by state governments with the Supreme Court committee on road safety. The maximum reduction, in numbers, was recorded in Karnataka, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.

 Details accessed by TOI also show that the number of injuries has reduced by 8.06 per cent. “We have submitted the data to the Supreme Court in our 11th report. We have sought court directions to the Centre and states to take time-bound actions so that the number of deaths and injuries reduces. We want the number of road deaths to come down drastically since every one of us is vulnerable on the road,“ panel chairperson   told TOI.
 
 The data submitted to the apex court show that barring 11 states (including Haryana, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Assam and Goa), the number of people killed in road crashes has fallen.
 
 The maximum increase in road deaths was reported from Manipur where 48 people died between January and March this year compared to 26 during the same period in 2016.
 
 “The positive trends from most of the major states is a good sign. But we have to sustain this. There has been a remarkable change in the approach of state governments towards issues relating to road safety and each one of them is implementing the panel's directions,“ Justice Radhakrishnan said.
 
 Till now, two wings of the   -the transport research wing and National Crime Records Bureau -have been coming out with annual data on  . The data for 2016 has not yet been published.
 
 “Now states are providing quarterly data to the SC appointed committee and that's a good signal. Updated information will help us focus on where we need to work more and which states need to pull up their socks,“ said K K Kapila of International Road Federation.
 
 Road safety expert Rohit Baluja said countries like US, Sweden, UK have the system for compilation of latest data. “But their data is based on scientific study and analysis. We need to do that, else it will be like garbage in garbage out,“ he added.
 
