HYDERABAD: Many people have been left wondering as to what is wrong with the   that is located in a prime location in the heart of the city. 

 Soon after bifurcation, Telangana was allotted the A, B, C and D blocks but the TRS government was keen on re-locating the Secretariat. It first set its eyes on the   in Erragadda. Following protests that proposal was shelved.
 
 Though the chief minister initially said the reason for wanting to move out was that the existing Secretariat was not Vaastu compliant, when the matter was dragged to court, the state government said it did not have adequate fire safety provisions. CM stopped coming to She secretariat, except for cabinet meetings.
 
 After the Chest Hospital, the state government considered the  , Secunderabad. But with the Centre cold shouldering its proposal, the it decided to stay on at the existing premises and began an exercise to renovate it. It was proposed to construct about 10 lakh square feet of space in three or four blocks by demolishing A, B and C blocks.
 
 A seven-member committee recommended four blocks be constructed by taking over some buildings on 2.5 acres of adjoining Mint Compound. The drawings for the complex were prepared by Mumbai-based architect Hafeez Contractor.
 
 Experts and the public are of the view that the Secretariat should be in the heart of the city so that it is accessible to the scores of people visiting it.
 
 "What can be a better location than the existing secretariat complex? The state government can tear down the existing blocks and construct swanky ones. The new structures can be made Vaastu and fire safety compliant. Our suspicion is that the TRS government wants to shift out so that it can hand over the existing complex for commercial purposes," said a state government employee.
 
 TJAC leader   said the existing Secretariat is close to ministers quarters, assembly, CM camp office and directorates of departments. Another advantage is the traffic does not choke as the it has multiple road links. RTI activist S Chandrasekhar said: "People have been facing traffic jams at JBS and Paradise circle. The proposed Secretariat at Bison Polo Ground and Gymkhana Ground and the resultant traffic will compound the   at Secunderabad."
 
