KOLKATA:   were assured of a playoff berth even before the first ball of their last league match against   was bowled at the Eden Gardens after Sunrisers Hyderabad made the last four by winning their final game in an earlier match on Saturday.

 But the Kolkata outfit suffered a moral jolt ahead of the playoffs as they went down by nine runs to a secondstring Mumbai side in their own den. The win helped Mumbai top the league table with 20 points while Kolkata (16 points) can only finish third or fourth and will play the eliminator against either Rising Pune Supergiant or Kings XI Punjab, who will clash on Sunday.
 
 Assured of a top-two finish before the match started, Mumbai Indians decided to test their bench strength and made six changes for their last league match. The newcomers did not disappoint as opener Saurabh Tiwary anchored the innings well and Ambati Rayudu struck a quickfire half-century down the order to help the visitors put up 173 for five after being asked to bat first by  . A Nor'wester, followed by a sharp shower late in the afternoon, delayed the start of play by half an hour.
 
 Kolkata made the mistake of opening with   and Chris Lynn on a slow pitch. Narine was out to the fourth ball of the innings, caught at mid-off by Hardik Pandya off Tim Southee.
 
 Kolkata then lost skipper Gambhir (21), Robin Uthappa (2) and Chris Lynn (26) and Yusuf Pathan (20) and slumped to 87 for five.
 
 However, a 31-ball 41-run run sixth wicket stand between Manish Pandey and Colin de Grandhomme raised hopes of a comeback for the hosts before Hardik Pandya cut one back to dislodge Grandhomme's stumps.
 
 Pandya was instrumental in pushing the last nail in Kolkata's coffin when he had Pandey caught at deep mid-wicket for a run-a-ball 33 in the 18th over.
 
 Earlier Mumbai skipper  , who came in at No. 3 at his favourite ground after the early departure of in-form opener Lendl Simmons, played some fluent strokes. He hit the first six of the Mumbai innings lifting Umesh Yadav over long-on to bring up the team's 50. But Ankit Rajpoot cut short the Mumbai skipper's promising knock at 27, trapping him leg-before.
 
 Rayudu, who was injured after Mumbai's first match, then decided to take the attack to Kolkata. He treated all bowlers with disdain, even as Tiwary - playing his first match of the season - played the waiting game and rotated the strike. The Jharkhand lefthander made 52 (43 balls, 9x4) before being run out as he responded late to a call for a quick single. Rayudu minced no words in commenting at the end of the innings that Tiwary needed to improve his running between wickets.
 
 Rayudu, who kept wickets in place of regular 'keeper Parthiv Patel, finally was stumped when Kuldeep bowled one wide on seeing the right-hander dance down the track. Rayudu's 63 came off 37 balls and included six fours and three sixes.
 
 
