Vadodara: The Banyan City remains on edge sensing communal tensions during festivities, be it Ganesh Chaturthi or Eid or Moharram. But, the centuries old Taziyas of Yakutpura and at the dargah of Zoravar Peer have been symbols of communal harmony for decades.

 The Taziyas of Yakutpura Muslim Panch were installed in 1880, few years after the first Taziya of the city were installed by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III for communal harmony. The Taziya installed by the erstwhile Baroda state were discontinued after the demise of the Maharaja, but the Taziya of Muslim Panch are installed even today at the same place and visited by hundreds of people from different religions.
 
 “Maharaja Gaekwad used to come here in his horse cart to offer his prayers and seeing him or out of faith, people from other religions too started coming here. Today, third generation of the believers come here to offer prayers,” said Nasir Khan Pathan, trustee of the Panch and senior executive at Baroda Dairy.
 
 Prakash Soni, who has his jewellery shop, on Fatehpura Main Road said, “I started going to Yakutpura Taziya seven years ago and since then I have hardly faced any problem.” Nilesh Gandhi, another shop owner on the same road, said, “My father used to go there for prayers and take me along when I was a kid. I have continued the practice and go there even today.”
 
 Pathan said that when the Taziya is taken around at Laal Akhada, Fatehpura crossroads and Adaniya Pul, which are considered to be communally sensitive areas, on the day of immersions they are welcomed by Hindus with all grace.
 
 Just like the Taziya of Yakutpura, the one installed near the dargah of Zoravar Peer also witnesses rush not only from Muslims and Hindus, but also from Parsis, Sindhis and other communities.
 
 “There are two reasons behind followers from different communities,” said Sajjad Hussain, whose father Vazahat Hussain had installed the Taziya there in 1950s. “Firstly, my father had many friends who were Gujarati and Marathi and through them more people started to come here. Secondly, people from other communities have immense faith in Zoravar Peer dargah since decades because of which they offer their prayers at the Taziya.”
 
 Jimmy Buhariwala, a Parsi businessman from Mumbai, has been visiting Taziya every year since 1962. “With our faith in Taziya several of our problems were resolved and therefore I come here with my family,” he added.
 
 All of them, with whom TOI talked, believe that there is communal harmony among the residents of these areas, the untoward incidents which take place there are instigated by some elements for their vested interests.
 
 
