Ahmedabad: For the second straight year, the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), has raised the fees of its postgraduate programme (PGP) and postgraduate programme for agri-business management (PGPFABM) courses. With a 7.7% hike from the existing Rs 19.50 lakhs, the fees for the two-year courses will be Rs 21 lakh.

 The new fees will apply for the 2017-19 PGP batch. Last year, IIM-A had increased fees for the PGP by Rs1 lakh, from Rs18.50 lakh to Rs 19.50 lakh. That was made applicable for the 2016-18 batch. At the sidelines of the B-school’s 52nd convocation on Saturday, Professor Ashish Nanda, director of IIM-A, informed reporters that the board of governors had approved the fee increase.
 
 Earlier, Shikha Sharma, CEO of Axis Bank and a 1980 batch IIM-A alumna, spoke about her journey as a banker and advised students to make choices that maximize their potential. “This is India’s time in the sun. It is our time as a nation to regain our fair share of global economic production, of trade, of arts, culture, innovation. As graduates of WIMWI, the Well Known Institute of Management in Western India (IIM-A), it is incumbent upon you to lead from the front in building our nation. Whether you plan to join a multi-billion dollar firm or seed a start up, you form the talent engine that the India story is depending on,” Sharma said in her convocation speech.
 
 She also spoke to the graduating students about her life partner. Sharma married her batchmate at IIM-A, Sanjaya Sharma, who is chief executive of Tata Interactive Systems Limited. 
 
 Kumar Mangalam Birla, IIM-A chairman and chairman of Aditya Birla Group, said, “Never let the process of learning and discovery stop. In the days and years to come, if you look at your workplace as your continuing MBA, you will keep expanding your horizon. What you have learnt here is the science of management. Which, however, is only one aspect of the learning curve. Going forward, you will have to start practicing the art of management.”
 
 The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, will set up centres at Delhi and Mumbai to enhance the footprint of the premier business school.
 
 
