Here’s a love story that seems like it’s right out of a movie. A young couple from the city have showed us what true love looks like, and their story will remind you of the 2016   film, Sanam Teri Kasam.

 Vishnu and Lakshmi met back in 2012 when they both worked for a marketing company. The two soon fell in love and began dating. Once their company shut, they decided to look for a job in Bengaluru, as Lakshmi’s father opposed their relationship, since they belonged to different castes.
 
 “We were sure of one thing — that we wanted to work in the same company, so we looked for and found such a job. But when we reached Bengaluru, the company gave us jobs in different locations. Determined to work together, we quit our job in a few months and decided to move back to  ,” says Vishnu. While Vishnu was let go off immediately, it took Lakshmi three days to be relieved. Vishnu spent the three days and nights at the railway station, waiting for his love to accompany him back to their hometown.
 
 
  
 Soon after they returned to the city, Lakshmi was diagnosed with cancer and was admitted to the hospital. Vishnu, who was kept in the dark about this, tried endlessly to contact Lakshmi, who ignored him since she wanted Vishnu to move on. “I did not want to ruin Vishnu’s life. I wanted him to find another girl and get married to her,” says Lakshmi.
 
 When all attempts to get through to Lakshmi failed, Vishnu contacted her sister and learnt of her illness. “I dropped everything and spent all my time with Lakshmi in the hospital, nursing her back to health. When she was well enough to return home, I asked her to marry me. At first, Lakshmi refused, but our former colleagues intervened and we married at the  ,” says Vishnu. 
 During the wedding ceremony, everyone was pleasantly surprised when the priest pointed out that it was the temple of Lord Vishnu and goddess Lakshmi.
 The wedding was also attended by Lakshmi’s sister and father, who got emotional since the man who he did not want his daughter to marry was the one who stuck by her through thick and thin. Vishnu, however, did not inform his family since he was sure of their opposition to the union.
 
  
 Vishnu spends his days working hard at the marketing firm, looking after wife Lakshmi, who is now a singer. “My marriage and the love of my husband has helped me lead a normal life despite battling cancer. But others are not as lucky. I hope that the government comes to the aid of such people and helps them lead a better life,” Lakshmi signs off.
 
 — Krishna Kamble
 
