Morning witnessed an emotionally charged gathering of former servicemen, while evening followerd with a parade by students of the Bhonsala Military School to mark   Vijay Diwas on Tuesday. The Indian Army had triumphed over Pakistan in Kargil on July 25, 1999.

 Apart from these two organisations, several youth groups took the lead in celebrating the day by organising bike rallies, blood donation camps, adventure rides and cultural events across the city.
 
 Students of the Central Hindu Society’s Bhonsala Military School (BMS) held three rallies to salute the  . Students of Bhonsala Military School, Girls Military School and Military College took part in the rally in full army uniform.
 
 In all, 700 students of BMS, 300 girl students and 300 college students participated in the rallies enthusiastically. The 13-member horse troops and 75-members band troops created a patriotic atmosphere.
 
 A rally of BMS students first began from Hutatma Square. They covered Shivaji Stadium, Central Bus Stand, Canada Corner,   and Samarth nagar areas. A second parade by Bhonsala College students started from Pramod Mahajan Garden and covered Gangapur Road and Jehan Circle area. The third parade by Bhonsala girls started from Trimbak Road covering ABB Circle, Mahatma Nagar, and Samarth nagar.
 
 “The three parades met at the BMS campus and paid tribute to the martyr’s memorial there. We remembered the martyrs of the Kargil war as well as those who offered their supreme sacrifice during the fight against Pakistan-sponsored terrorism,” Sucheta Chorgaonkar, Bhonsala college principal, said.
 
 Colonel V P Chitte, commanding officer of 7 Maharashtra Battalion was the chief guest. Akhil Bharatiya Poorva Sainik Seva Parishad (ABPSSP) and Indian Ex-Servicemen League (IESL) organised a meeting of ex-servicemen at the Hutatma memorial at 9am on Wednesday.
 
 Fulchand Patil, president of Nashik IESL said that army veterans shared their experiences during the Kargil War and other encounters with Pakistan.
 
 Highlighting the issue of self-respect of soldiers posted in Jammu Kashmir, the IESL demanded that those involved in stone-pelting should be termed as terrorists.
 
 
