NEW DELHI: Stressed   may get relief on spectrum payments to the government with the inter-ministerial group (IMG) likely to allow delayed payments. The IMG may also offer lower interest rate (10.5% at present) on outstanding spectrum payments.

 The high-powered group has been set up for looking into woes of the sector.
 
 According to sources, the telecom companies may now get 16 years to make spectrum payments instead of eight years at present. This repayment period starts after a two-year moratorium following the initial down-payment.
 
 However, the IMG has not touched the thorny issue of inter-connect charges (IUC) — where older operators such as Airtel, Vodafone and Idea are opposing Reliance Jio’s demand for a reduction. It feels that the issue should be decided by the regulator  .
 
 It is not yet clear whether IMG will provide telcos any relief on the annual licence fee payout, currently pegged at around 8% of their adjusted gross revenues. Companies have been demanding removal of 5% of this payout towards the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). Industry sources, however, said this demand might be considered, though there was no official confirmation.
 
 The telecom sector has been facing a severe financial strain after launch of services by Reliance Jio. Jio’s disruptive entry — with lifetime-free voice and free data usage till March this year — broke financials of older telecom operators with companies such as  ,   and Vodafone slipping into losses, while   reporting contraction in profits.
 
 A section of the telecom ministry also expressed concern over falling revenues of the industry, as it impacts the government’s earnings from the sector through various levies and charges. Sources said the IMG has not recommended any changes to the spectrum usage charge (SUC) that companies currently pay (around 4% of gross revenues) to the government. Also, it has not suggested any reduction to the GST rate on telcos that was pegged at 18% in the new regime against 15% earlier.
 
 
