PANAJI: In a case that exposes how police registered a FIR and filed a chargesheet without evidence against an accused alleged of running a prostitution racket in a spa at Mapusa, the high court of Bombay at Goa has quashed and set aside a chargesheet filed by the crime branch in a court against Abhishek Mishra.

 The government admitted before the high court that there was no prima facie material against the accused. The high court said that no purpose would be achieved by continuance of the proceedings against the  .
 
 A division bench comprising Justice F M   and Justice   observed “The statements of the victims, too, make a reference to customers who were found at the relevant time of the raid, but there is not a word or whisper on the presence of the petitioner except for a stray statement by the investigating officer that apart from six named persons, who were detained in the course of raid, one Raj Mishra, Abhishek Mishra and one Savio (full name not known) too, were involved in the offence without in any manner indicating the role played by them or any of them”.
 
 While noting that the name of the petitioner does not appear even in the list of names revealed at random either in thecomplaint or the accompanying records of the chargesheet, the high court held that there is no reason why the petitioner should be made to face the trauma of a full drawn trial before the concerned court.
 
 Public prosecutor S R Rivonkar conceded that barring the information initially received which led to the raid, there was no material on record, prima facie, to even remotely connect the petitioner with the crime and said that it was a fit case to quash the chargesheet against the petitioner.
 
 G Teles, advocate for Mishra, submitted that there was no material prima facie on record to continue the proceedings against the petitioner.
 
 Mishra had approached the high court against the crime branch for carrying out a biased investigation.
 
 Petitioner said that judicial magistrate first class, Mapusa, took cognizance of the offence punishable under Sections 3, 4, 5 of The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) (ITP) Act and Section 370 IPC and issued summons to him. The offence was not at all attracted and besides the petitioner was not named in the FIR as an accused and was subsequently added as an accused with a view to foist a false case against him, the petitioner alleged.
 
 Crime branch, acting on the basis of information, had on August 9, 2014, conducted a raid on the massage parlour ‘Venus & Mars Salon-Spa Body Care’ located at Mapusa on the premise that the girls engaged therein were carrying on prostitution in the spa by way of a cross massage.
 
 A raid was accordingly conducted after a decoy customer was sent in to lay a trap to book a case under the provisions of Immortal Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 (“ITP Act” for short) and thereafter several persons were held. 
 
