GURUGRAM: A group housing society, located right outside  , has put up a   to prevent autorickshaws and cars from using the service lane leading to the station, causing inconvenience for commuters.

 The service lane is used by residents of a number of other societies and apartments in Sector 56. Also, those coming from Golf Course Road take this lane to reach the Metro station. However, a local resident, Diwakar Gupta, has barricaded the lane without permission from any government agency.
 
 “On Monday, I was going to the station in an auto. The guard there was not ready to let the auto enter the lane. When I protested, he somehow allowed the auto to enter. But, as soon as we reached the station, one Gupta approached my auto driver and started fighting with him. I argued that this is a road for common use and cannot be blocked,” said 62-year-old Sandra Ursula Sousa, a daily commuter.
 
 “However, he was very arrogant and claimed that he had the rights to do so, to protect the residents from outside people using the service lane. I faced a similar problem on my return journey. It was raining and I had to walk till the main road in the dark,” she alleged.
 
 Another commuter Kapil Mishra shared a similar experience. “This problem started on Monday. For the past three days, the security guard posted there has been turning away vehicles of those who don’t live in this society. The guard claimed he has orders from (Diwakar) Gupta. It is absurd that one man is holding so many people to ransom. The authorities should take action against him,” Mishra demanded.
 
 When contacted, Gupta admitted that he had not sought any permission from any agency before putting up the barricade. “I decided to install this barrier to prevent autos from parking on this road and blocking the passage for the residents,” he said.
 
  officials said they would look into the matter and take action in this regard. “Nobody can block any public road, even if it is within a colony. If the residents want to install a gate, they will first have to seek permission from us. In this case, nobody has sought any permission from us and we will take necessary action,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer, Huda.
 
 
