GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has taken a very controversial decision to ease norms for selling   to industries. A formal Government Resolution (GR) in this regard was also issued by the state revenue department on March 6, 2017.

 Sources in the government said the new norms have become a cause of disputes and controversy in the state administration. Key officials of the forest and environment department and of the revenue department have reportedly approved the request of some very powerful industries even before the policy decision was put before the state cabinet for consideration. The officials had relaxed the norms by calling the entire exercise a ‘routine administrative’ procedure. In fact, the concerned file was not even sent to the chief minister or the state cabinet, sources said. On the use of forest land for non-forestry purposes, the Forest   Act, 1980 says that the user agency (i.e., the applicant) must give alternative non-forest land of the same size to the government for  .
 
 However, under the state’s tenancy laws, companies are not allowed to buy agricultural land. Hence, companies were buying government wasteland instead. The problem for companies was the valuation of such land which was frequently very high or they had to pay at least the jantri rates.
 
 Moreover, government agencies often took a lot of time in allotting such wasteland and, in many cases, industries were forced to pay bribes.
 
 For these reasons, some top industrial houses were lobbying hard for a change in the rules and trying to convince the government to accept private land instead of government land. Incidentally, the private land was acquired by the industries from farmers without first converting it to non-agriculture land. Sources in the state government said that in the case of new norms, the established procedure of vetting by the state finance department for any financial implication on the state exchequer had also not been followed.
 
 “Earlier, when industries were supposed to buy wasteland, the government was directly getting an income. Now the government will not get anything,” an official said. He further said that the second major financial loss to the government was the premium it earned for giving NA status.
 
 “Under the new norms, companies will directly buy land from farmers who, through an agreement, will let go his/her right in favour of the government by ‘resignation’,” the official said. “Now, companies will not have to pay any NA premium fee to the government. This is a major loss to the state exchequer.” 
 
