CHANDIGARH: Coming to the rescue of the financially strapped   (PU), the Supreme Court on Monday asked the   ( ) to release an interim grant to the university so that it could pay salaries to employees and conduct examinations. The apex court made it clear that the amount should be released before Friday. 

 A division bench, comprising Justices A K Sikri and Ashok Bhushan, passed these directions while hearing an appeal filed by UGC against the university. The directions were issued after the counsels for the university, senior advocate Girish Agnihotri and Bhuwan Vats, informed the court that PU had to divert the examination fee collected from students towards the salaries for the month of March. 
 
 “Now the university is expected to pay salaries for the month of April in the first week of May. It is also expected to conduct examinations in May-June for which it has no funds. Around Rs 24 crore goes into the payment of salaries every month andRs 35 crore is necessary for
 running expenses of the university,” advocate Agnihotri told the court.
 
 Panjab University officials said a meeting of UGC officials and finance development officer of the university will be held on Tuesday. Sources said PU was demanding an interim grant of Rs 50 crore to meet the expenditure of next two months as it has run out of funds. Income from fee will start coming from July.
 
 Panjab University Teachers Association (Puta) chief Promila Pathak said the association has decided to suspend the protest over the issue of grant as positive signals have been received from the Punjab government, the UGC and ministry of human resource development. PU senator Navdeep Goyal said the authorities are hoping that it becomes a practice that the interim grant is released in the second month of the financial year to Panjab University.
 
 Deepak Kaushik of PU Non-teaching Association said due to non-availability of funds, employees’ medical bills and retirement benefits checks are pending with the accounts branch. He said after the release of interim grant, the pending checks of all employees should be cleared.   president Nishant Kaushal said the decision has given hope that if the grant is released on time, the authorities might give some relief in fee hike to students.
 
