GAYA: In his first major initiative to revamp and fine-tune the MU administration, VC Prof   late on Sunday evening divested S P M College-Udantpuri principal Raj Kumar Majumdar of his financial powers and transferred nine other principals.

 According to a notification issued by the VC’s residential office and signed by registrar Nalin Kumar Shastri, Majumdar will perform only routine functions and will have to secure the university's permission for major financial transactions.
 
 Majumdar's financial powers have been tripped because, said the registrar, he wanted to continue as the principal of the college despite completing five years on account of being on the verge of retirement. The VC has, conceded his request that he be allowed to retire from the college.
 
 The other nine principals were transferred because they had completed five years or more in one college. While G J College-Ram Bagh (Bihta) principal Kumar Rajiv Ranjan has been transferred to A N College-Barh, S Sinha College-Jehanabad principal Anand Kumar Singh will now head the A M College-Gaya. 
 
 J L N College-Khagaul principal Rajesh Shukla has been transferred to S U College-Hilsa.
 
 The other principals figuring in the transfer list are Jawahar Prasad Singh, Ganesh Mahto, Phula Paswan, Sushila Devi,   and Rajkishori Devi. Jawahar Prasad Singh has been transferred from S U College-Hilsa to A N S College- Nabinagar and Ganesh Mahto from   to S N Sinha College-Warisaliganj. 
 
 Phula Paswan of R L S Y College-Aurangabad has been shifted to G J College-Bihta. Rajkishori Devi of Kishori Sinha Mahila College-Aurangabad replaces Paswan in R L S Y College-Aurangabad.
 
 Sushila Devi of R P M College-Patna City goes to Mahila College-Khagaul replacing Meera Kumari, who has been transferred to J D Women's College-Patna.
 
 In view of the transfer notification, S N Sinha College- Jehanabad, J N L College-Khagaul, Daudnagar College-Daudnagar, R P M College-Patna City and Kishori Sinha College-Aurangabad will have the most senior teacher as officiating principal till further orders, said the notification.
 
