Let’s admit it- we all want flawless skin. Apart from excellent genes, it requires extra care to maintain that head-turning beauty. But not many of us know that our eating habits are directly linked to the skin type we have. A few foods that we think are healthy may create havoc on our skin. Here we have given a list of foods that have the ability to damage your skin.

  
 Too much salt can cause puffiness on the face. As the skin around our eyes is too delicate and thin, excess consumption of salt can lead to swelling around this area. According to The National Heart Lung and Blood Association, 500 mg is a safe daily minimum intake of sodium. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 We get a number of health benefits from dairy products. But having them in excess can lead to  , under eye bags, blackheads, spots, acne and wrinkles on the bridge of nose. According to a study, there is a link between higher milk consumption and acne. It was also found that higher amount of bioavailable hormones in skimmed milk, caused acne on face. Weight watchers are recommended to drink about three glasses of skimmed milk a day and one or more portions of low-fat yoghurt or low-fat cottage cheese.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 This is a fact that we have heard a million times, but it’s worth repeating. Sugar not only adds ‘empty’ calories but affects skin texture. Wrinkles on the forehead, under eye bags, thinning of skin, acne and scars, spots and moreover, pale skin colour are some of the side effects of eating sugar. Consuming less sugary products can definitely reduce these skin problems. According to the American Heart Association (AHA), “the maximum amount of added sugars you should eat in a day are: Men: 150 calories per day (
  grams or 9 teaspoons) and Women: 
  calories per day (
  or 6 teaspoons).
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Despite knowing the side effects, we still enjoy a glass of alcohol. Its health hazards aside, alcohol consumption can also change your face. It gives you unwanted wrinkles, puffy eyelids, flushed skin, crow’s feet under the eyes and deep nasolabial folds. If you have experienced all these changes on your face, immediately stop or limit its consumption.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Food products enriched with gluten can also change your face skin. These products may develop acne on the chin, forehead and cheeks, a puffy face and red cheeks. This is a condition that mostly occurs in people who are allergic to gluten-rich foods. It’s better to avoid the intake of gluten products. It’s good to go for a gluten- free diet and avoid foods with white flour.
 
 
  
  
 
