PATIALA: The five-day protest being organised by the seven farmers organisations has provided the ground for the rival political parties to target the Congress government in the state as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Adami Party (AAP) leaders today used the farmers’ issues to project the state government as a complete failure. 

 General Secretary of Shiromani Akali Dal and party's member of Parliament from  ,  , while interacting with local media persons said   had played a cruel joke with the state farmers announcing the ‘partial loan waiver’, which he claimed had created more problems for the farmers then providing them with any relief. 
 
 He said the promise made in the election manifesto by the Congress prompted the farmers not to repay the loans taken from various financial institutions. "While the farmers were to pay a 3 percent interest in case they paid the loan in time, but now this interest has gone up to 7 percent. The accumulated interest has now made it almost impossible for farmers to repay their debts," Chandumajra said. 
 
 Aam Adami Party leader Dr Balbir Singh, who had contested the last assembly polls against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, also arrived at the protest venue and condemned the state government for its failure to deliver. He, however, had to face awkward moments as a large number of farmers objected to his presence at their protest. The farmers including some women alleged that AAP leaders were now trying to gain mileage out of the farmers’ issues. These women even asked Dr Balbir to leave the protest venue and said that these leaders must first explain where they were when farmers were committing suicide across the state. He was not even allowed to interact with the media persons and was asked to leave the venue.
 
 Meanwhile, the seven farmers organisations accorded the status of ‘Kisan Shahid’ to 55-year-old Mukhtiar Singh, who today died at PGI Chandigarh on Sunday morning after suffering a brain haemorrhage at the protest venue on Friday evening. 
 
 The leaders who addressed the gathering claimed that the latest decision taken by the state government in regard to the loan waiver had further pushed the farmers into the debt trap. They claimed that even as the state government was using its entire machinery to mount pressure on the farmers to withdraw their protest, but they would not allow the Congress to get away from these issues without finding a lasting solution to the farm crisis being faced by the cultivators in Punjab. 
 
 They claim that they would not remain silent till the state government come up with a formula for complete loan waiver. They also demanded that other than wheat and paddy the state government should also ensure minimum support prices for maize, potatoes, tomatoes, sunflower and other such crops to save the state farmers. 
 
 They said that if Rs 200 per quintal bonus was not given to the farmers, they would be left with no other option but to set paddy stubble on fire even this year. 
 
