JAIPUR: Are you conscious about your eating habits? Are you afraid of putting on weight after eating junk? Do you wish to manage your diet and see a  ? If answer to all these questions is ‘yes’, then maybe career in   is what you’re looking for.

 Nutrition and Dietetics are slightly different from each another. ‘Nutrition’ is related to promotion of health whereas ‘Dietetics’ is related to management of food. With a significant rise in demand and awareness for fit and healthy lifestyle, more and more people are seeking to be nutritionist and dietician. In turn, they are getting their share of limelight.
 
 Nutritionists advise people on health and intake of nutrients which are necessary for promotion of health. They can work as nutritional counselors, nutrition scientist, clinical nutritionist, dietician nutritionist and sports nutritionist. Dieticians take dietetics into consideration and regulate diet as per the calorific needs of people.
 
 Ankita Natani, a student who aspires to become a Nutritionist says, “Nutritionist and Dieticians can make a career in hospitality, education, government sectors and many more public arenas. With change in eating choices of the majority of population, nutritionist and dieticians are gaining prominence.”
 
 When asked why students are turning to this course, she says, “Nutritionists and dieticians earn well both in public and private sector. Admission policies are lenient as compared to other courses.”
 
 Students who plan to pursue this course should have enough knowledge of Chemistry, Home Science, Physiology, Cooking and Biochemistry. Students with a degree in Home Science or Hotel Management can also opt for masters in Nutrition and Dietetics.
 
 There are undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses too available for Nutrition and Dietetics. At undergraduate level, the course generally lasts for three years whereas course in Nutrition and Dietetics can be either two years masters’ program or one year post graduate diploma at post graduate level.   offers courses on Nutrition and Dietetics on a regular basis.
 
 With degrading living conditions, more people are at a risk of ailing. To prevent this, campaigns are being organised by various organisations to educate people about health and nutritive requirements based on several factors. Many people are moving towards a healthy society, now it’s your turn to contribute for a healthy living. 
 
 Dr Anuja Atreya, well-established Nutritionist/Dietician says,"Students are taking up this course because it is interesting and is widely spread. People these days are concerned about their diet and health." When asked about the qualities a Nutrition/Dietician, she says,"they should understand their patient well and should suggest a diet plan keeping in mind their dietary practices and other medical ailments like allergies. Apart from this, they should be friendly enough to win their patient's confidence."
 
