PATNA: The   has made much hue and cry over the   in the Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) question paper leak case, but it’s not for the first time that a senior IAS official has been booked or arrested on corruption charges in Bihar. The state government on Friday suspended former BSSC chairman Sudhir.
 
  Four IAS officials have been booked in different special vigilance cases in the state and two of them have already retired. The investigation or trial is going on against them in the cases in which they have been made accused.
  
  Senior IAS official SM Raju is accused of embezzlement of central government’s scholarship fund meant for SC/ST students during his tenure as the principal secretary of SC/ST welfare department in 2013-14. An FIR (special vigilance case 127/16) was lodged against the 1991 batch Bihar cadre officer and several others on November 29 last year. Raju has also moved court for anticipatory bail petition in the case in which several other government officials and touts have been named accused. Raju was additional member, board of revenue, when the FIR was lodged. He was suspended on January 12.
  
  1996 batch IAS official K   Kumar is also an accused in (special vigilance case 36/10) a scam which resulted in Rs8.76 crore loss to the state exchequer. Kumar, while being the   (PMC) commissioner, allegedly connived with builders and other private persons and passed illegal building construction maps. The investigation revealed that around 130 building maps were approved while ignoring rules. Senthil is additional secretary in education department.
  
  Another IAS official Hemchandra Jha was booked and jailed in a graft case (special vigilance case 55/2006) on October 12, 2006. He was then Madhepura DM when Rs1.90 lakh was recovered from his official vehicle near Malsalami in Patna. Jha failed to explain the source of money he was carrying. The case is in its final stages of argument.
  
  Former additional secretary of mines and geology department, Narayan Murty, is also chargesheeted (special vigilance case 6/97) for allegedly making 901 illegal appointments of third and fourth grade employees between 1985 and 1995. Sources said Jha and Murty have retired from services.
  
  The same was the case with Gautam Goswami, one of the TIME Asian heroes in 2004. He was accused in Rs18-crore flood relief scam and, in 2005, landed in the same Beur jail where he had visited many times as the Patna district magistrate. The 1991 batch IAS official died in 2009 after battling cancer.
  
  Director of primary education in 1990, Ram Shringar Singh, was accused of bungling Rs2 crore of government scheme. He also died and the proceedings against him were dropped. Proceedings were also dropped against   three years back after the central government did not sanction prosecution against him. Tiwary, who retired on January 31, 2007, was accused (special vigilance case 87/90) of making illegal appointments in Bihar Intermediate Education Council, which is now a part of   (BSEB).
  
  Sources said several IAS officials, along with the then CM Lalu Prasad and former CM Jagannath Mishra, had been booked and arrested in fodder scam cases in 1990s.
