TRICHY: A group of   from Trichy have stumbled upon   estimated to be over 1,000 years old near  . The remains earthen pot shards used as   called  , pieces of bones and a structure resembling ground water well. 

 The study was undertaken by students of EVR Periyar College in Trichy and TBML College at Porayar near Nagapattinnam. 
 
 The students, along with their history professors, were conducting an explorative study at Tharangambadi when they found the archaeological remains. "Burial urns are the over 3000-year-old ancient funeral system of Tamils," said faculty of history at EVR Periyar College S Xavier. "When people got older, they would become immobile and used to be moved outside the village to specific locations. When they died they would be placed in a sitting position in earthen pots along with their belongings," he said. 
 
 The site at Thillaiyadi near Nagapattinnam was an isolated location lying unused for over several years. "Unlike the modern earthen pots, these are found exceptionally thick hinting at its ancientness," said D Ramalingam, another faculty from EVR College. Besides, it was found to be black in colour from one side and red from another. "Unlike the modern earthen pots, these have narrow bottoms. Moreover, we also found design on the neck of the pots which seemed unique," added Ramalingam. 
 
 However, this isn't the first time that such burial sites were unearthed in the region. The present site would also have gone unnoticed had the owner of the land not dug up the place. "There are many such burial sites that remain unexplored as the ancient habitats are buried and modern settlements have come up above them in recent times," says faculty of History department at TMBL College J Selvaraj. 
 
 "It was Kalidass, a postgraduate student, who first identified the remains in Thillaiadi villages. We unearthed two burial urns from a place close to the present site in 2014. After two years we have now again come across such urns," he said. In this case, the owner of a three acre land which was lying unused for years was being dug up by him for farming recently when he came across the burial urns. 
 
 
