Chandigarh: In its second interim report, the commission headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) has recommended cancellation of 47 FIRs found falsely registered across Punjab in the last 10 years during the previous SAD-BJP regime. The commission has also recommended recovery of compensation amount from at least 12 police officials for further payment to the victims of false cases.

 The commission, also comprising retired district and session judge B S Mehandiratta, submitted its second interim report to the Punjab government on Tuesday. A total of 106 public complaints regarding false cases were examined by the commission out of which 59 complaints were dismissed as they were found to be genuine cases. The commission is expected to submit its third interim report to the government on October 20.
 
 In a false narcotics case registered under the NDPS Act against one Mehar Singh on May 11, 2008, at Ferozepur Sadfar police station, the commission found that the accused was acquitted by the court. Now the commission has recommended action against prosecution witnesses –– deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jasvir Singh and sub-inspector (SI) Atma Singh. Recommendation has also been made that adequate compensation should be paid to Mehar Singh which should be recovered from the investigating officer of the case, inspector Sarabjit Singh.
 
 In three more cases of Ferozepur, the commission has recommended payment of compensation to the accused who have been acquitted by the court. The compensation has to be recovered from the investigation officers in these cases and the commission has also recommended prosecution of the first informant and certain police officers under Section 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the IPC.
 
 In its recommendation to the Punjab home and jails department, the commission has mentioned that requests should be made to the courts concerned in a proper and legal manner for cancellation of FIRs found false.
 
 The commission, in its first interim report submitted to the Punjab government on August 23 after examining 178 cases, had recommended cancellation of 9 FIRs, action against police officers, a few sarpanches and complainants for registering false cases.
 
 
