PUNE: Residents of Baner Pashan Link Road are fed up with   in and around their area. Thick black smoke emanating from empty plots, labour colonies, spaces near shops and even security cabins around residential societies are a common sight. And so is the resultant unbearable smell of burning garden waste, tyres and plastic.

 On many occasions, the fires burn close to electric poles, gas pipelines or even HT electricity cables, magnifying the risk and inconvenience.
 
 Describing their agony, Anjali Jagtap, secretary of Kubera Bahaar Residential Society said, “There is an open plot right next to our complex and people from nearby vastis and even house helps burn all sorts of garbage here, even in the afternoon. The smell is unbearable, as is the smoke.”
 
 While area sanitary officers of   do respond to complaints, Jagtap wanted a permanent end to the problem. Many culprits intentionally time the burning to avoid being caught by the sanitary officers, pointed out Mahendra Patwekar, another resident of Baner-Pashan Link Road. 
 
 “I have caught many in the labour colonies burning waste, particularly the kinds generated from gardens that are not lifted by waste collectors. When questioned, they say they are doing it to heat water or to make food. But the size of the fire is a give-away that it’s been lit to burn garbage,” he said.
 
 Patwekar, who had sent regular complaints to the area’s sanitary inspectors, alleged that they discourage official complaints. “Many times, the area officers tell me to avoid sending complaints through the   mobile app or the WhatsApp complaint number of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Instead, they want to be alerted personally. Probably they want to avoid facing questioning from their superiors for the unsolved problem,” he said.
 
 The civic body needs to take up this problem, said Ravindra Sinha, member of the  . “Most of the time, it is extremely difficult to find out the culprit. We keep educating our house helps and society security guards about the court orders on the issue and the monetary fine that they may be forced to pay if they are caught. The impact will be more if the civic body starts strictly imposing the fine prescribed in the order by the National Green Tribunal,” he said.
 
 We try to fine as many culrpits as we can, said Raju Vairat, sanitary inspector attached to Aundh ward office. “We receive several complaints from Link Road residents in a week and we respond to almost all of them. Sometimes the culprits are very poor labourers and slum dwellers, so we are not able to fine them heavily. We do try to solve complaints on a one-on-one basis with the residents as otherwise our bosses too start asking questions,” he said.
 
