Kolkata: This summer, when you buy an air-conditioner, you wouldn’t have to top up your security deposit with  . The power utility has done away with the additional security deposit it used to charge consumers for the additional load.

 “CESC has decided to do away with the additional security deposit from this year. We have done a credit mapping of our consumers and have no problems with those who go on paying their electricity bills regularly. The new norm is applicable for consumers installing up to two ACs,” a CESC official said. Earlier, consumers had to apply to the CESC regional office along with the latest electricity bill. The power utility then made a demand for additional security deposit based on the bill and the additional load. Consumers were required to install the air-conditioner after making the payment. The amount was anything between Rs 3,900 and Rs 10,850 depending on the tonnage slab of the air-conditioner — 1 ton, 1.5 ton, 2 ton.
 
 For CESC, the decision has a financial bearing because the power utility used to raise a huge amount in advance from a substantial section of its 26-lakh odd consumer base as additional security deposit.
 
 Aparup Kumar Bhattacharjee, a CESC consumer, had in fact moved the   Electricity Regulatory   ( ) in 2015 questioning the utility’s decision. Bhattacharjee wanted to know if the CESC’s decision to charge additional security deposit had the Commission’s sanction.
 
 The WBERC didn’t give a specific reply to Bhattacharjee’s query. On the contrary, its response added to the confusion. WBERC public information officer Prabhat Ganguly wrote on December 30, 2015: “I am to inform you (Bhattacharjee) that this Commission has not determined the legal tariff security charges and legal tariff additional SD for specific loads in the regulation.”
 
 CESC officials, however, claimed the utility used to charge the additional security deposit under WBERC regulations. CESC general manager (customer relations)   clarified this point in his reponse to Bhattacharjee’s letter. “At the time of processing the application for air conditioners, shortfall if any of the security deposit “held” is realised. The consumption estimated for a new connection is based on the declared load of the applicant,” Shome wrote. 
 
 Later, Shome told TOI that the company pays 10% interest on the security deposit held in excess. “A consumer is also free to withdraw the excess amount if he wants. The company refunds the money to the consumer by way of a cheque,” the CESC official said.
 
