MUMBAI: India has overtaken   to become the second largest country for consumer products giant Unilever, after the United states. The 52.7-billion-euro Anglo-Dutch multinational’s Indian subsidiary,   ( ), today contributes 8% to the global turnover.

 HUL, in which Unilever has 67% holding, has added Rs 12,000 crore of incremental turnover in the last five years, which has helped it climb up a few notches in the pecking order, its MD & CEO   told TOI in an exclusive interview.
 
 “India is a big player in Unilever’s scheme of things. We have added 50% of our turnover (as of 2012) in five years. It’s now the second largest operating company for Unilever. And developing and emerging markets are close to 60% of Unilever’s turnover,” said Mehta, who will complete 25 years at Unilever this year, of which 15 years were as CEO of various Unilever companies. While on the one hand its is facing an onslaught from the likes of Patanjali, on the other HUL is also reaping the benefits of a growing premium products portfolio, which has helped in improved margins.
 
 Even while the maker of Surf Excel and Fair & Lovely readies to launch ‘Ayush’ nationally this year, its premium portfolio has increased its contribution to 20% of the business, by doubling in size in 5 years.
 
 In the past, HUL has never been lucky with a third oral care brand. In the late-90s it had withdrawn a hurriedly launched ‘Aim’ toothpaste to focus on Pepsodent and Close-Up.
 
 But with dwindling market shares, Mehta said, “In oral care, we have work to do. It’s a category that is slowly evolving towards one-third natural play, one-third freshness and one-third basic care. If you are not present in one-third of natural care, your arithmetic is stuck against you. It’s important for us to start playing a good game in natural. As for our competitors, we observe them, but our obsession is always with consumers.”
 
 In naturals, where the organisation is facing a ‘Nirma’ moment with Patanjali growing at a rapid pace, HUL’s strategy is going to be multipronged. Apart from master brand Ayush, it is building in a natural variant for each brand in different categories. The vanguards leading the charge would be specialised brands like Indulekha and the just launched Citra. In addition, HUL would actively scout for more acquisitions in this space.
 
 It’s difficult to predict how much natural will contribute to our portfolio, but one thing is clear — we will be serious players. We have already started the game. We are open to acquisition opportunities and if we get a good candidate, we would certainly be looking at it,” he said.
 
 To become more agile and respond to the skirmishes of competitors with speed, HUL has reduced its planning cycles to a week. “There was a time when we used to make a strategic plan once every three years. Now when you make a strategic plan and at times it is not relevant in a month. The only way to respond to this kind of circumstances is having an organisation which is agile, flexible, adaptable and where you have enormous amount of authority given as close to the consumer as possible. Now we look at weekly cycles,” said Mehta. The strategy came in handy during demonetisation, a period when the FMCG major posted a negative volume growth. “Today, you can’t be sitting and planning on a twothree month horizon because the shifts are taking place so dramatically,” he said.
 
 HUL has also set up country category business teams (CCBTs), which are empowered business teams run by young leaders who are given the authority and licence to run the business the way they think it best. “With the CCBTs, which are 15 in number, the organisation will significantly enhance the response time and speed,” said Mehta.
 
 What’s enabled the Rs 36,000-crore elephant to become nimble is technology. Mehta describes it as ABC — Artificial Intelligence, Big Data and Content — which is going to increasingly play a big part. “We are investing in technology ahead of the curve. Today our market shares in e-commerce are greater than modern trade and our shares in modern trade are greater than general trade, because we invested in capabilities well ahead of time.”
 
