  : After forming government in four of the five states that went to polls recently, the national president of the BJP,  , will visit his hometown Ahmedabad on Wednesday. This homecoming will be commemorated with a ‘Vijay Vishwas Karyakarta Sammelan’ in which around 1 lakh workers are expected to join. As soon as he lands, Shah will be felicitated by the state BJP members at the city airport.

  The enthusiasm with which the BJP is rallying its cadre in Gujarat and the frenetic poll preparations even within the Congress have amplified the buzz about assembly elections being scheduled before the advent of monsoon. As for Shah’s programme on Wednesday, booth workers from all the 182 assembly constituencies are likely to participate.
 
 Despite the heat wave, the BJP is upbeat about workers’ participation in the first show of strength in the election year. On the riverfront, the BJP has set up a dome which will cover around 50,000 persons. 
 
 Jitu Vaghani, the state BJP president, said: “Though it’s the election year, BJP never works only to win elections. It works for people. A heat wave warning has been issued, but our workers are not fazed.”
 
 Spate of meetings on March 30
 
 Amit Shah will have one-to-one meetings with the party’s district office-bearers and senior state BJP figures on March 30. He is expected to discuss plans for all 182 seats. He will have separate meetings with chief minister  , deputy CM Nitin Patel, and state party president Jitu Vaghani.
 
 Note bandi became opposition’s vote bandi, says Rupani
 
 Gandhinagar: Taking a dig at BJP’s political adversaries, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said the demonetization decision taken by the PM had proved catastrophic for opposition parties in the recent elections.
 
 Speaking at the inauguration of the passport service centre at Palanpur, Rupani said, “The Prime Minister’s decision for ‘note bandi’ has proved to be ‘vote bandi’ for the opposition.” 
 
 Rupani reiterated his commitment towards policies for the welfare of the poor, oppressed, dalits, farmers, women and villagers. He said that his government has implemented prohibition and cow slaughter laws. Rupani said the government will not tolerate unnecessary increase in fees by private schools. He also lauded the role of Union minister of state for MSMEs Haribhai Chaudhary, for setting up the passport seva kendra at Palanpur post office.
 
