After a long and antagonising two-year wait, director S.S. Rajamouli has finally released the trailer of his highly anticipated fantasy drama ‘Baahubali 2 – The Conclusion’, on Thursday morning. Staying true to the story and mystery surrounding ‘Baahubali: The Beginning’, the second and final installment aims at picking up the pieces and mending together the tale of two brothers torn apart by power and jealousy. Packed with stellar visual effects, face numbing fight sequences, romance, drama, betrayal and revenge, the trailer only raises our expectations for the film. We have drawn up a list of reasons why this film is one of the most anticipated films of 2017.

 
 
 
 ‘Baahubali 2 – The Conclusion’ promised to be a visual masterpiece, and going by the trailer, it has lived up to everyone’s expectations. While the first movie won praise and appreciation for its stunning visual backdrop, the makers have now pushed the envelope for this installment. With a lot of help from their VFX and graphics team that worked tirelessly for months on end, the makers have created a spectacular, fantasy-like kingdom of Mahishmati where this story unfolds. Apart from the breathtaking backdrop, a lot has also gone into enhancing the scale, vision and action sequences of the film. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 After two years, the question which left many stumped, “Why Kattapa killed Baahubali?” will finally be answered in this film. Baahubali's dialogue to Kattappa, "Tumhare hote hue, mujhe maarne waala paida nahi hua mama", makes the wait for April 28, 2017, only seem longer. 
 
 In one of the several failed attempts to get director Rajamouli to spill the reason for the character’s death, the director had revealed that Kattappa killed Baahubali ‘because he asked him to’. 
 
 We can only wait and watch what drove Baahubali’s loyal right-hand man to drive a sword through him in the climax of ‘Baahubali: The Beginning’. 
 
  
  
 
 Director S.S. Rajamouli is a storyteller par excellence. He has the knack of turning around the most simple story into a cinematic masterpiece. In his film ‘Eega’ for instance, the protagonist was a fly. Rajamouli didn’t only make a full fledged film starring – the fly, but he also did a great job out of it. In ‘Baahubali 2 – The Conclusion’ expect a glorious screenplay that is bound to keep you at the edge of your seat through the entire duration of the film. 
 
 
 
 
 If there is one thing fans can be assured of in ‘Baahubali 2 – The Conclusion’, is that war will inevitably be waged and blood will be spilled on the battlefield. After wowing audiences over with the Kalakeya war in the first film, the makers have gone all out to make sure things only get bigger, better and bloodier in this flick. The films posters portrayed Rana’s character as a bloodthirsty warlord leaving a strewn of lifeless bodies on his path and the trailer gives us a peek at how it all plays out. 
 
 
  
  
 
 ‘Baahubali 2 – The Conclusion’ will see the rise of Baahubali’s son who sets out to avenge the death of his father. As the trailer nears its end, we get a glimpse of a face-off between Rana’s now, much older character engaged in combat with Prabhas’ character. Who will rise and who will fall? Will the son suffer the same fate as his father or will he rise to take his place on the throne? 
 
 
 
 
  
 
