CHANDIGARH: Hawa Singh Sangwan,   of the Akhil Bharatiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (ABJASS), has claimed that All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief   of collecting money from the community and using it for personal gains. Alleging unethical financial dealings by Malik, Sangwan said that sections of community have already started raising voice against it.

  “Yashpal Malik wants to collect around Rs 4-5 crore from  . He has been telling donors that the money would be utilized for opening coaching centres for Jat youth. But the fact is that he is misusing the money for his personal interest,” alleged Sangwan, who hails from Bhiwani. A retired CRPF commandant, Sangwan told TOI that already Jats in Jhajjar and Kaithal are protesting against Malik’s move to collect money.
 
 When contacted, Malik refuted all allegations made by Sangwan and said that he was not collecting money for himself. “Though we have a plan to work on education of Jat youth but the decision would be finalized with everybody’s consent,” Malik said. The final call decision on the issue would be taken during the June 4 meeting of the Haryana state working committee of AIJASS at Rohtak.
 
 At the same time, Malik too hit back at Sangwan, accusing him of towing the state government’s line. “Sangwan was earlier a part of our group since 2011. But after that he chose to speak for the government instead for the welfare of Jats,” he claimed.
 
 In the past, Sangwan has also made allegations on Malik of misguiding Haryana Jats by forcing them to sit on dharnas for reservation even though the case was pending before in court.
 
 Malik said that members of his organization would be conducting meetings in districts across Haryana from May 14 to June 2, with regard to their pending demands before the state government.
 
 He said that during the meetings it would be discussed as to how many of their demands have been implemented by the state government. The organization had staged sit-ins seeking release of those arrested during last year’s reservation agitation that had turned violent in February 2016, withdrawal of cases filed at that time, compensation and job to the families whose members were killed in firing by the  
 
