NAGPUR: As reported by TOI on Tuesday, the   (MNLU) Executive Committee cleared proposal to double its intake capacity for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from 2017-18 academic session. Now, the premier institution that started operating from last year, would have 120 BALLS (Honours) seats and 20 LLM seats. A proposal to start PhD for the law graduates was also cleared unanimously. 

 “Now, the proposal would be dispatched to   (BCI) for its permission and also to authority (Patna-based  ) conducting Common Law Admission Test (CLAT),” officer on special duty (OSD) for administration NK Sakarkar told TOI.
 
 It’s big news for the law aspirants, particularly from the city, as their dream to join the premier institute would come true. Out of 60 admissions for five-year BALLS course last year, over half of them are from the city. They were selected from over 622 applications received from students who cleared the CLAT.
 
 The OSD added that they had prepared the modalities for starting PhD course and those willing to join have to clear and entrance exam as mandated by the UGC. “Any law postgraduate could apply. We would accommodate them as per UGC norms and number of teachers we’re having. The apex body recently tightened norms for teachers guiding students. Currently, we’ve 12 teachers on the rolls in MNLU” he said.
 
 With the new addition, the MNLU would have total intake of 200 students and it would be difficult to accommodate them in existing premises at the hostel of Pre-IAS Academy run by the state government at old Morris College. The OSD informed that they would be making alternate arrangements for the new batch and were searching for new premises. “The government has allotted 35 rooms to us, where students are accommodated on twin-sharing basis at present. We will soon take a decision in this regard.”
 
 The EC meeting, held on MNLU’s premises at Judicial Officers Training Academy (JOTI), was presided over by vice chancellor Vijender Kumar. Senior judge at Bombay High Court justice  , justice (Retired) Ravindra Chavan and other EC members also participated.
 
