JAIPUR: After stalling the construction of the luxury multi-storied residential complex, Palacia, near the   for nearly three years, the BJP government in the state has gone against its previous orders and given permission to construct the building to the revised height of 30 metres.

 The U-turn by the state go vernment has come as a surprise as it had earlier made numerous attempts to not only stop the construction work but also demolish the completed portion, arguing that no building can be constructed in the vicinity of the Statue Circle at a height of 30 metres.
 
 The developer, Om Metal Consortium Pvt Ltd, had received a stay on the demolition order issued by   (JDA), which the   subsequently failed to challenge. On September 8, the   (UDH) department has gone against its previous orders and given permission to construct the building to its revised height of 30 metres.
 
 “The developer was provided relief by the high court and tribunal. Our senior department officials, after seeking advice from legal experts, including the additional advocate general, decided to allow construction of up to 30 metres,“ said UDH minister Shrichand Kriplani On July 26, 2013, the previous Congress government had permitted the height of the building to be revised from 15 to 30 metres, allegedly against rules, after considering the location of the plot on Prithviraj Road. The BJP government, which came to power in December 2014, withdrew the order issued by the Congress government, keeping the height of the building to the original 15 metres.
 
 The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) also cancelled the layout plans approved for 30 metres at a building planning committee (BPC) meet ing. Following this, directions were issued to the developer to submit a revised layout plan to construct a 15-metre building.The entire project was cancelled on March 2015 after the developer failed to submit the revised plan.
 
 The   has now revoked all these orders and given its nod to the revised plan.
 
 “The department order, number F-3(285) dated 312 2014 and notification number F 3 (719) dated on 3122014 are withdrawn with immediate effect,“ the order says.
 
 Sources in the department claimed the state government has also provided all the setback relaxations, which were withdrawn earlier. The multicrore project was surrounded by controversy since its inception. In 2014, the BJP government also decided to conduct a high-level inquiry into the alleged irregularities in the project. The then additional chief secretary Ashok Sampatram was appointed as the inquiry officer and asked to submit a report to the government within two months. However, till date, the BJP government has not taken any action against the developer.
 
