KOLKATA: City police commissioner Rajeev Kumar on Friday filed a criminal   against BJP national secretary   at the city sessions court.

 The complaint comes in the backdrop of chief minister   upping her ante against the BJP-ruled central government on Friday, accusing it of threatening her with a probe by the CBI as she raised her voice against demonetisation.
 
 The BJP leader on January 4 had claimed he would ask CBI to probe the alleged role of Kumar in destroying documentary evidence against the now-defunct Saradha group ostensibly to shield some   leaders. Chief judge Subhra Ghosh took cognizance of the complaint and directed Vijayvargiya to appear before it on March 7.
 
 Public prosecutor Tamal Mukherjee said, “Section 199CrPC mandates that in such criminal defamation cases the complainant has to appear in person. However, some exceptions to this have been provided to public servants employed to serve a state, if the complaint is made in writing by the public prosecutor. I, therefore, moved the complaint on behalf of the police commissioner.” He argued that the January 4 statement made by Vijayvargiya is not only false and misleading but defamatory in nature. The legal provision under which the complaint was filed mandates that it should be filed within six months of the purported offence.
 
 Mukherjee to argue his case also cited the May 2014 Supreme Court order transferring the Saradha probe to CBI. The apex court had mentioned, “The State Police Agency has done well in making seizures, in registering cases, in completing investigation in most of the cases and filing chargesheets and bringing those who are responsible to book. The question, however, is not whether the State police has faltered. The question is whether what is done by the State police is sufficient to inspire confidence of those who are aggrieved.” 
 
 Vijayvargiya didn’t respond to calls made on his mobile. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “It would have been better if a serving IPS officer didn’t wade into political shadow boxing. BJP will contest this case legally with all its might. To put the allegations in context, we are aware that the same officer had been ticked off by statutory bodies like the   and even Calcutta high court.” Mukherjee said: “Based on our plea, the court has dispensed with the day-to-day appearance of the complainant which is necessary to examine him under section 200CrPC.” Since the offence has a maximum punishment of a two-year simple imprisonment and a fine if convicted, it is a bailable offence.
 
