BENGALURU: The  , forest and climate change (MoEFCC) declared the 30.32sqkm of Nugu   district an eco-sensitive zone on Wednesday. With this, no commercial or  , including mining, will be allowed in the sanctuary.

 The move comes at a time when attempts are being made by some vested interest groups to start commercial ventures on the  . Moreover, it comes as a shot in the arm for conservationists who have been emphasizing the importance of the sanctuary for the survival of the state's elephant population.
 
 The ministry has directed the state government to prepare a zonal master plan for the eco-sensitive zone. A copy of the notification has been accessed by TOI.
 
 Nugu had been declared a wildlife sanctuary on June 17, 1974 and in 2003-04, it was added to the 5,500sqkm Niligiri Biosphere Reserve, the largest conservation area in the country with a high density of elephant population. On July 28, 2016, a draft notification was issued seeking suggestions on declaring the sanctuary as an eco-sensitive zone.
 
 In the latest notification, the ministry stated: “It was necessary to conserve and protect the sanctuary from an ecological and environmental point of view and to prohibit industries in the ecosensitive zone.“
 
 The zone has extent of land varying from 0.32km to 7.8km, from the boundary of the Nugu wildlife sanctuary .The eco-sensitive zone will include 11 villages in Heggadevenakote taluk and two villages of Nanjangud taluk in Mysuru district.
 
 A senior IAS officer told TOI: “Declaring Nugu sanctuary as an eco-sensitive zone will make it difficult for politicians and businesses to recklessly tamper with its beautiful landscape, especially the Nugu backwaters.The primary focus will be on protection of flora and fauna in the region.“ According to sources in the forest department, there are 25 villages situated around the sanctuary with a population of 20,000-25,000 people. The cattle population is over 10,000.
 
 “Labelling it as an ecosensitive will help us reduce biotic pressure such as cattlegrazing, illegal removal of firewood and illicit collection of non-forest produce. Interference by politicians, especially with regard to taking action against forest offenders, can be easily thwarted now,“ forest department sources said.
 
