CHANDIGARH: In a first, the UT state transport authority issued challans to two drivers of   Moto, a bike taxi service started by cab aggregator UBER recently, for plying without permission. 

 Both bikes were challaned for not having a permit amounting to Rs 5,000 each. The drivers of both bikes were unaware about UBER not having permissions and faced a difficult time in dealing with a motor vehicle inspector issuing challans. A motorcycle cabbie, Jitender Kumar, said, “We were never informed about it by UBER. They have been assigning us bookings in Chandigarh and  .” 
 
 It was Jitender’s third day.
 
 The other driver,   said the were told that they could ply in Manimajra, Chandigarh and Mohali, and not in Panchkula and Zirakpur. “But nothing about not having permission or Uber Moto was shared when we joined,” he said. He had joined on July 19.
 
 STA additional secretary Rajiv Tewari said, “Plying of vehicle in Chandigarh with contract carriage without permit is illegal, as it is against the provisions of Motor Vehicle Act. A permit has been issued for Mohali jurisdiction only.”
 
 The challans were issued in a reality check conducted by STA. “When we got to know about the service being available here in Chandigarh, we conducted a reality check. We booked UBER Moto and issued challans. The drive will be on for the coming days as well, until permission is granted to them.”
 
 Not denying that UBER is plying UBER Moto in city without permission, an Uber spokesperson told TOI via email: “In an effort to continuously innovate and develop smart mobility solutions that can keep our cities moving, we are testing a pilot of bike-sharing services in Chandigarh. We will continue to engage with government stakeholders for enabling entrepreneurship opportunities and a last-mile connectivity solution. We are working with the authorities and supporting our driver partners towards ensuring that all outstanding issues are resolved at the earliest." 
 
 The service was inaugurated for  , including Mohali, on Tuesday. But a policy for the same is yet to be finalized.
 
 In Punjab, it has been formally launched by the government under its flagship ‘Apni Gaddi, Apna Rozgar’ scheme to generate thousands of economic opportunities in the state by flagging off over 100 UberMOTO bikes. The government of Punjab demonstrates intent to create thousands of economic opportunities through the launch.
 
