PATNA: The   ( ) team, which is camping at Motihari in East Champaran district to probe the   near Kanpur late last year, quizzed the family members of Deepak Ram (18) and his uncle Arun Ram (28) at Laxmipur under the Adapur police station area on Sunday. Deepak and Arun were killed at Bara in Nepal on December 25 last year for their failure to blast the railway tracks near Ghorasahan in the district on October 1 last year. The police had found a   and defused it later.

 The NIA is probing the links of Umashankar Patel of East Champaran and Brajkishore Giri of Bara with Pakistan’s ISI agent Shamshul Huda, who is a non-resident Nepalese based in Dubai. Huda is allegedly the handler of Giri, who, along with Mujahir Ansari and Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujeet, has been arrested by   in the twin murder case. Patel, Motilal Paswan and Mukesh Yadav were arrested by Motihari police in  . Patel and Giri had confessed to the police their involvement in the Kanpur accident on the direction of Huda. 
 
 NIA IG Manoj Shukla and DIG Prashant Kumar from Delhi and Lucknow, respectively, have been camping at Motihari since January 27 after the investigation agency formally took over the Ghorasahan case as it was linked with the Kanpur train accidents. 
 
 Sources said the NIA officials have already submitted a copy of the FIR (2/17), lodged in connection with the Ghorasahan case, before a special NIA court in Patna. The NIA is likely to move the court within a couple of days to seek transfer of the case from Motihari to Patna.
 
 Muzaffarpur rail DSP Ramakant Upadhyay said Patel, along with Paswan and Yadav, would be produced before a local court on Monday. “Rail police will seek the court’s permission for their five-day police remand,” he said, adding that the three have been remanded in Ghorasahan case lodged with the rail police.
 
 Nepalese citizen Giri, Mujahir Ansari and Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujeet were also arrested by Nepal police in Deepak and Arun murder case after which the ISI link in Ghorasahan and Kanpur incidents came to light.
 
