Bathinda: The first attempt of the Congress, since it attained power in Punjab, to gain control of any civic body in the state fell flat as its no confidence motion against office-bearers of the Faridkot municipal council was voted down on Tuesday. The attempt of the Congress to win over the required number of municipal councillors to unseat municipal council president Uma Grover, who owes allegiance to Shiromani Akali Dal, failed after getting 16 votes in a house of 25.

 Though the newly-elected Congress MLA of the area also voted in favour of the motion, the party was still two short of the magic figure of 18. 
 
 On the other hand, Faridkot MC chief Uma Grover accused the Congress members of trying to tear the proceeding book and gettiing the meeting postponed. She alleged that the councillors indulged in indiscipline in the presence of Congress MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon.
 
 The MLA claimed that the agenda was not served timely to the councillors so some of them could not reach and the meeting stood postponed. “Soon the next meeting should be convened to take up the motion,” said Dhillon.
 
 Faridkot MC executive officer (EO) Parminder Singh confirmed that the no confidence motion failed for want of required number of councillors.
 
 Talking to TOI, Grover alleged, “The Congress leaders were so desperate to usurp power that first they tried to get our councillors abducted on Monday in Zirakpur. Today they tried to disrupt the proceedings of the meeting to get it postponed and also tried to tear the proceedings book as they were angry over failing to get the required numbers.”
 
 “The Congress councillors did not allowed the videographer hired by us to shoot the meeting. I alone had gone to the meeting. Our councillors stayed away for fear of any physical harm and the Congress members failed in their mission despite the MLA making all efforts to unseat me. We will approach the court against the highhandedness and police trying to abduct our members in Zirakpur,” Gover said.
 
 Dhillon denied charges of highhandedness. He said, “I had gone to meeting and 15 councillors attended it. But we found that timely information could not be provided to councillors so a few of them could not reach. We want the meeting to be postponed and new meeting should be convened soon. We did not have anything to do with the police action at Zirakpur.”
 
 
