AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentions Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya as a foremost figure who worked to   of the poor. But the PM’s effort to establish generic   in   have been given the short shrift by doctors who push   of multinationals, while poor patients are left in the lurch.

 The state of patients and the ‘Deendayal Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra’ in VS Hospital is an ideal example of such a situation, say sources. The store was opened amid much fanfare last November to provide affordable and quality generic medicines to the needy.
 
 Poor patients cannot get medicines from the generic medicine store in the AMC-run hospital as doctors at the hospital insist on medicines of particular brands, which are only available outside the hospital. The staff at the generic medicine store have no other option but to send back patients empty-handed.
 
 The store staff said doctors have shown apathy towards medicines kept at the store since the time of its launch. A   store staff said on condition of anonymity, “Earlier, we used to give generic drugs. But later, doctors sent patients back to return those medicines and insisted on buying medicines of particular brands.” “So, to avoid tension with doctors, we now do not give most medicines to patients,” said the staff. Mayor Gautam Shah, said that he will inquire into the issue and if such situation prevails at the hospital then it is deplorable. Health minister Shankar Chaudhari said that no doctor can prescribe a particular brand of medicine which is against the guidelines of Medical Council of India. “I will order a probe into the issue,” he said.
 
 Himanshu Pandya, a middle-aged man who works as security guard in the city, was one of the patients who returned empty handed from the medicine store. “My nine-year-old son has been suffering from food poisoning and these people at medical store are not giving me medicines. I have to buy it at very high price from outside,” Pandya said. He had to buy ten branded tablets for Rs 24, which can be availed at Rs 4 from the generic drugs store, had doctors accepted. An HIV positive youth, who works as daily wager, also could not find the medicines.
 
