GHAZIABAD:   have become a hotbed of unbridled  . A reality check by this correspondent revealed the ground floors of rows of residential buildings in most plotted localities in Niti Khand, Ahimsa Khand, Vaibhav Khand, etc to have been turned into shops and showrooms or have been rented out to other businesses.

 Houses along the main roads, surrounding the Khands, have been taken over by businesses in a brazen violation of the UP Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973.
 
 Members of the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association had approached the GDA with a complaint in October 2016. They had pointed to 6,000 locations in Indirapuram which were the worst affected. They said that the areas with row houses had the most number of such business entities.
 
 However, the FAoA members said that despite their complaint, no action has been taken so far. “There is a cyber cafe in my row of houses, owing to which a lot of rush is always clogging the way for vehicles to pass from our narrow lane. It’s a problem and such commercial activities should be banned from being carried out in residential localities,” said  , a Niti Khand resident.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Alok Kumar, patron of Federation of Apartment Owner's Association,   and a resident of Ahinsa Khand 2 said that apart from being illegal, such uncontrolled commercial activities do more harm than good. He said that such businesses invite traffic congestion in and around houses. Kumar put special emphasis on businesses like restaurants and food stalls. He said that such business also generate a large amount of daily waste which can end up clogging sewers and drains. "There is a fair chance that such commercial activity in residential areas also enjoy government services like electricity at residential rates instead of commercial rates," Kumar added.
 
 Almost all residential areas of Nyay Khand, Gyan Khand, Abhay Khand, Ahimsa Khand and Niti Khand had shops in them. The commerical enterprises included grocery stores, clothing showrooms, play schools, chemists, fast food stalls and such.
 
 When asked, some of the shopkeepers were unaware of the illegality of conducting businesses in residential areas.
 
 spoken to some of the shopkeepers about the legality of conducting businesses in residential areas, some of them were clueless about the illegal nature of their shops while some refused to make any comment on the issue.
 
 When asked about GDA’s intervention, Vijay Yadav, GDA vice-chairman, said the GDA has already started the process to initiate action against such violators. “We have have found about 5,000 to 6,000 such violations across Ghaziabad. We are now in the process of issuing show-cause notices to such establishments,” he said.
 
 As per the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development Act:
 
 Rule:- Use of land and buildings in contravention of plans
 
 After the coming into operation of any of the plans in a zone no person shall use or permit to be used any land or building in that zone otherwise that in conformity with such plan:
 
 Provided that it shall be lawful to continue to use, upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by by-laws made in that behalf, any land or building for the purposes and to the extent for and to which it is being used upon the date on which such plan comes into force.
 
 
