LITTIPARA: Tribals who were ousted and rehabilitated owing to the coal mining activity in Amrapara feel orphaned after the death of   MLA Anil Murmu who had championed their cause. 

 Now, after the mines have closed, they are forced to live in abject poverty sans jobs and basic amenities. The mines in North Block and Central Block had closed down following a Supreme Court directive banning mining activity being conducted on deemed license. Since 2015 work is yet to begin, though contracts for mining have been reallocated, and the villagers are waiting with bated breath. 
 
 Naya   looks like a ghost settlement today. Even at 11 am the place which once buzzed with activity now wears a deserted look. The long, broken track – which used to be a pukka road – that leads to Naya Kathaldih now seems to reflect the fates of the tribal families. A large football ground does not have any players and the huge overhead water tank is dry. A heavy-duty generator that supplied electricity to the houses today is silent without any fuel.
 
 Hemlal Murmu, shares his name with the   candidate for   by-polls, but is a staunch JMM supporter. “Since the last three years we have been living in poverty. Our colony which was set up for rehabilitation is now bereft of electricity and water. We have trek for a long distance to get drinking water from a river. To top it all we don’t have jobs. But, I will vote for JMM and hope that the mines restart soon,” said Murmu, adding: “However tough our living conditions are, we cannot change our political leanings.”
 
 Ten-year-old Motilal Hembram was oblivious to the predicament faced by his parents as he played with his pet goat. “Our children do not have clothes, nor do we have money to send them to schools anymore,” rued Sonaram Soren, who used to moonlight as a civil contractor in the mines during day and a guard during night. 
 
 “The North Block contract is showing some signs of revival. Some of my neighbours were called for attendance there. But, there is no activity at Central Block. Earlier, we used to be people of the forest. We used to eat fruits and sell leaves for a living. Today, we pray for the mines to restart. Because, now we don’t have the forest anymore and without the mines we don’t have any source of livelihood,” added Soren who has written several letters to the Prime Minister and to the chief minister of   appealing for help.
 
 Village pradhan, Mangal Soren (70) said: “Anil Murmu was our messiah but today he is no more. We want to go to Ranchi and tell the government our plight. At least give us some rice, the PDS rations do not suffice anymore. We heard of BJP’s development agenda, but in Naya Kathaldih, there has been no development, only deterioration since the last two years. It is difficult to decide who will help us, who to vote for.”
 
 
