From his debut show Taste of Kerala to his latest venture  ,   has come a long way in the television industry, experiencing his share of hardships and joys along the journey.
Kalesh, who once dreamt of being a magician, is now one of the most popular faces of the small screen.
 Currently busy with his game show Udan Panam, the the multi-talented artiste, takes some time off for a chat about his passion for magic, his journey in the small screen so far and his dream of directing a film…
 
 
 
 
 
 My journey to the limelight started from poverty. My parents wanted me to pursue a government job, but I wasn’t interested in a permanent office job. From a young age, I wanted to appear on television screen. So, I began my career as a choreographer in magician Gopinath Muthukad’s troupe.
 That’s also when I fell in love with magic and in 1999, I opted to learn some skills from Muthukad sir. Having gained confidence, I launched my own magic troupe in 2005, However, being a fresher in the field, I didn’t receive many shows. And so, the days of hunger and misery pushed me to anchor a show on television for the first time in my life, in 2006.
 The cookery-cum-travelogue show Taste of Kerala was a completely new genre for me. But to my surprise, after the first five episodes, the show’s novel theme struck a chord with the audience and it became a hit. Later, I also anchored Food Path, yet another cookery show which highlighted cuisines of the world.
 But somewhere, I felt I was drifting from the world of magic and that’s when I decided to hang up my anchoring shoes for a while and concentrate on developing my magic skills for the next two years.
 During this time was when my wife Divya suggested I participate in the reality show, Entertainment   in Sony TV. I also penned  , a cook book, and by God’s grace, I also got small roles in films like  ,   and Lord Livingstone 7000 Kandi.
 
 
 
 
 The national show was a turning point in my career. It was the platform that I always dreamt of as a magician. I could meet a lot of artistes and was also able to learn new magic tricks. I was the runner-up of the show and was lauded for my acts in the final rounds like vanishing   sir from the celebrity judging panel and making Anushka Sharma appear on stage.
  After that show, I received lot of offers to perform on stages across the country and outside. It established me as a magician.
 
 
 
 
 
  To appear on the television screen was what I always longed for in my life. I was fascinated by the Doordarshan shows like Ramayan, Malgudi Days,   and the presentation skills of Annu Kapoor during my childhood. Now, I prefer the small screen more than films as it is the medium that is closer to the audience.
 The love and affection that you get from people for your television stints cannot be attained even if you do 100 films. I have rejected four film projects just to concentrate on my television shows. For me, TV has always been my lucky medium.
 I could connect with the audience across the State, especially with the cookery shows. I got the freedom to enter into their kitchens like a member of their family. I felt blessed when elderly women from Malabar, who are mostly from orthodox families, welcomed me to their houses to taste their authentic recipes during my shows.
 Travelling to new places outside our country also gave me memories to cherish in my life.
 
 
 
 
 
 Udan Panam is an outdoor game show with a novel concept to reach out to the public and make them participate. 
  The show is an example of the modern day anchoring as it is fast and more interactive. It is a challenge as a host to include contents for the 23-minute show that would entertain today’s audience. My chemistry with Mathukutty is the success of the show and we have been receiving great reviews even though only a few episodes have been aired.
 My earlier shows were purely on travel and food but this is a game show in which many of the participants enroll themselves to win the cash price for a special cause in their life. So, we also get a peek into their lives and struggles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I wish to direct a film. I have a script ready and I am planning to make the film by 2018. If it doesn’t materialise as a commercial film, then I might direct it as a telefilm. Television is my comfort zone and I would prefer films only if I get character roles, which will give me space to explore acting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
