PANAJI: The state police complaints authority (SPCA) receives, on an average 45 complaints each year regarding   by police personnel. During the last ten years SPCA received 456 complaints, of which 369 have been disposed, and 89 are pending. In 47 cases, SPCA has recommended   against the police personnel.

 The SPCA was constituted in April 3, 2007 to hear cases of misconduct by police personnel, and recommend necessary action. Over the last five years, there has been a rise in complaints against police personnel registered by SPCA.
 
 In 2014, despite the state government issuing a memorandum restricting SPCA from taking suo motu cognisance of misconduct by police personnel, in the last five years there has been an increase in the number of cases being filed against police personnel for serious misconduct. 
 
 The   had drawn wide criticism from activists and the public.
 
 SPCA has also closed 30 cases against police personnel and has dropped 81 cases in the  , while six cases were closed during the final stage.
 
 SPCA had even directed some police personnel to perform social service, requiring them to educate members of ten village panchayats of the existence, functioning, purpose and utility, as well as the procedure followed by SPCA to dispose complaints in case the police fail to file a first information report (FIR).
 
 Most of the complaints filed with the SPCA relate to the police refusing to register FIRs. Other complaints refer to police personnel assaulting the complainant when a FIR was asked to be registered.
 
 In one complaint, the complainant stated that he had been harassed by the police while he was registering the FIR at the police station. Other complaints include, abuse of power by police personnel and arrest without valid reason.
 
 Complainants have even approached the SPCA against police personnel for not releasing gold ornaments attached by the police in theft case, despite the court’s orders.
 
 Similarly, people have approached the SPCA after the police have failed to file a charge sheet in certain case. A particular complaint, refers to the complainant stating that he was illegally arrested and tortured to obtain a confession while in custody.
 
 The state government had also asked the SPCA to conduct an inquiry into police negligence resulting into the murder of a woman at Mollem.
 
