PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) has nominated   and Shailaja More for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor, respectively, in Pimpri Chinchwad even as the Nationalist   (NCP), in a U-turn from its earlier position, has nominated Shyam Lande and Nikita Kadam for the two posts.

 Kalje, who had defected from the NCP before the civic polls, was elected corporator from ward no 3 (Moshi-Charholi) while More is the corporator from ward no 15 (Transportnagari-Akurdi gaothan). The post of mayor is reserved for corporators belonging to the OBC category for two-and-a-half years. Kalje’s nomination to the post of mayor is expected to intensify the conflict between old and new (defected) guard at the BJP, political observers said.
 
 The BJP has 77 corporators in the house of 128 members so the party nominees are expected to be elected smoothly in the elections on Tuesday. 
 
 The party declared the name of its nominee for the mayor’s post after guardian minister   reached the PCMC main office building in Pimpri around 4pm. At the time, Chinchwad BJP MLA   and Mahesh Landge, associate MLA of BJP from Bhosari, were conspicuous by their absence in the PCMC main office building. 
 
 Asked about the NCP also contesting for the two posts, Bapat said, “This is democracy. Even if there is one corporator, he/she can contest this election.”
 
 Later speaking to mediapersons, Kalje said, “In the last 20 years, no party had nominated a corporator from newly merged villages to the post of the mayor. The BJP has given me an opportunity and I will work the development of the newly merged villages that have been neglected for so many years now.”
 
 Eknath Pawar, BJP’s nominee for the leader of the house at PCMC, said, “Our mayor nominee is the corporator from the Bhosari assembly constituency while that of deputy mayor is the corporator from the Pimpri assembly constituency. This has been done to maintain the balance of power between all the three assembly constituencies in the city.”
 
 “Seniority was the main criterion for the mayor’s post. We will pacify the unhappy corporators who could not be given these posts,” Pawar added.
 
 Mangala Kadam, the outgoing leader of the house, PCMC, said, “The newly elected corporators were of the opinion that the NCP must contest for the post of mayor and deputy mayor. So we took the permission of our leader Ajit Pawar and nominated corporators Shyam Lande and Nikita Kadam for the two posts.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ulhas Jagtap, municiapl secretary, PCMC, said, “Two forms each have been submitted by the BJP and the NCP for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor respectively.”
 
