Nagpur: District collector Sachin Kurve informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that 12 clubs, associations and institutions out of 113 that had been leased government properties were misusing the property in breach of lease conditions. Kurve submitted that the unearned income would be recovered from violators as per gorvernment resolution after final scrutiny. In his affidavit filed on September 26 in a suo motu PIL in court here, the collector stated that 12 associations/clubs/institutions were lending a part of land for marriage/receptions which was commercial exploitation and other purpose for which the land was allotted. He also attached a chart with names of the institutions and their breach of terms and condition. Vidarbha Cricket Association, Officers’ Club Civil Lines, Andhra Association, CP Club were among the 12 institutions misusing the land, the affidavit said. During the last hearing, a division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye had granted one week to the collector's office while orally warning to summon him in case of failure. The judges were angry that only six clubs had submitted their audit reports with profit/loss information out of dozens of organizations commercially exploiting the government-leased (Nazul) land. The PIL, based on media reports, is on gross misuse of the historic Kasturchand park due to apathy of the district administration that often rented it out for the commercial activities. The district administration stated that the government resolution of December 23, 2015, provided for recovery of unearned income in case the purpose for which the land was alloted was changed by the allottees. “During final scrutiny if found that the institutions are in breach of conditions of lease, necessary steps in accordance with the guidelines issued in the GR and other provisions of law will be taken,” the collector assured the court. Of the 113 leased properties, Bhagini Mandal has shown a profit of Rs39.44lakh while Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh and Andhra Association reported a loss of Rs7.06lakh and Rs 2.22lakh in the last three fiscals.