MADURAI: The civic body has warned of spot fines on people dumping waste inside drainage channels as most of them are clogged due to indiscriminate dumping of household waste. 

 The fine was announced by corporation commissioner, Dr Aneesh Sekhar after he found a private company dumping waste inside BB Kulam   while he was inspecting the area on Wednesday.
 
 The city corporation has turned Wednesdays as ‘Plastic Waste Day’ asking residents to deposit only plastic waste. The civic body has also undertaken various sensitisation drives in this regard.
 
  On Wednesday, corporation commissioner was inspecting the plastic waste collection at ward 42 of zone 2 consisting Chokkikulam, Indra Nagar, Anna Nagar and found entire BB Kulam channel filled with household waste. As he was instructing the officials to clean it, he caught personnel from a private company dumping waste inside the channel and slapped the fine amount of Rs 5,000. He instructed corporation officials to levy spot fine on anyone dumping waste inside drainage channels. 
 
 Madurai city, once surrounded with agricultural lands on the outskirts is criss-crossed by 13 channels which were once irrigation channels carrying water to agricultural lands. 
 
 After urbanisation turned all agricultural lands into residential areas, the irrigation channels have become drainage channels and further worsened as   carriers in most parts of the city. People discard all household waste inside these channels resulting in clogging and mosquito menace inside city.
 
 The spot fine will be a dissuading factor to people discarding household waste into drainage channels, corporation officials said. 
 
 After announcing the spot fine, Sekhar continued the inspection of plastic waste collection at Armed Reserve Line, Thanthai Periyar Nagar and Lourdu Nagar in K Pudur area. He also visited the Corporation Primary School at AR Line where the civic body has established a reverse osmosis plant in the school at a cost of Rs 7 lakh. 
 
 Later, he inspected road laying works at Mangalakudi and compound wall construction work of the school in that area.
 
