LUCKNOW: The outrage of city residents against the liquor menace continued for the third day in a row with angry groups clamping down five more   in different parts of the city on Wednesday.

 A shop of country-made liquor was set on fire late night in Jiamau. According to licensee Pradeep Kumar Jaiswal, a group led by women barged into his outlet with kerosene and   the shop. 
 
 “I was locking my shop around 10.15pm when the   came. They even looted Rs 60,000 from my cash drawer,” said Jaiswal. 
 
 A fire tender and the police dispersed the mob. 
 
 Earlier in the evening, a model shop was forced shut by an angry mob after an SUV rammed a cow in Jankipuram. The locals were infuriated after the cow died on the spot. The angry mob alleged that the driver and occupants of the vehicles lost control because they were drunk. 
 
 In Narhi, metres away from trade tax building, a group of locals led by women barged inside a country-made liquor shop at 4.45pm.
 
 After vandalising stock in the shop, the group pulled shutters down before police arrived. The license-holder lodged an FIR against an unidentified mob.
 
 A similar incident was reported from Cabinetganj, Gautampalli, around 6.30pm. Women residents gathered and threatened violence if the shop was not shut. Since several politicians reside in the area, police remain deployed on the stretch and they diffused the crowd. But the shop remained shut thereafter. Another incident was reported in Hasanganj locality where women forcibly vandalised shop around 7.30pm.
 
 All five shops have been in business for several years. Subsequently, delegation of traders met senior police officials and district excise officer to check violence.
 
 DIG Praveen Kumar said, “Some people have been identified and efforts are on to arrest them and we plan a strong crackdown in next 24 hours.”
 
 “We are anguished by the way liquor is allowed to be consumed openly. If people buy liquor and consume it without creating nuisance, public anger will subside gradually,” said Ankit Verma, a Narhi resident.
 
 Five people have been arrested for attacks and some women have been detained for questioning. 
 
 
