LUDHIANA: After the completion of nomination and withdrawal procedure, the district administration has allocated election symbols to candidates. One got the symbol of a school bag, another got headphones and another got the symbol of a farmer sitting on a tractor. 

 Candidates of recognized parties will contest on their party symbol but independent candidates need a symbol on the basis of which voters will cast votes.
 
 SAD candidates will contest with their symbol of scales while candidates of their alliance party, BJP will contest with the party symbol of a lotus flower. Aam Aadmi Party candidates will contest with their party stmbol of broom. Candidates from   have Post Box as election symbol and BSP candidates will contest with the party symbol of elephant.
 
 Like   in Uttar Pradesh, a candidate Jeet Sharma from Jammu and   was struggling to get bicycle as his symbol. He has been allowed to use that symbol by officials and he is contesting from the North constituency. Sharma said, “Our party has been using this symbol since 1982 and Samajwadi Party started using it after our party. I showed registered letters of our party. Only then I could get this symbol.”
 
 District transport officer-cum-returning officer of the North constituency said bicycle was allotted to him because Samajwadi Party is the state party and parties contesting in other states can use it as their election symbols.
 
 Among independent candidates from North constituency,   got the symbol of school bag, Parveen Dang has been allocated whistle and Hemraj Aggarwal has been allotted truck.
 
 Aggarwal said he selected this symbol because many articles of daily need are transported through trucks. 
 
 Parveen Dang, who got a whistle as his symbol said, “This symbol goes with my personality. I am a whistleblower actually. I have highlighted several important issues related to the public.” 
 
 The namesake of Manpreet Singh Ayali from Dakha constituency, independent candidate Manpreet Singh got the symbol of pendulum, which is similar to the SAD symbol of scale. An independent candidate from Atam Nagar, Rajesh Khokhar got headphones as his election symbol.
 
