NEW DELHI: Without disputing the Centre's stand that terror elements among   posed a security threat to India, two petitioners from the community told the   that the government should take action against rogue elements but must not deport innocent   who fled   to escape death and persecution. 

  The two petitioners, who have been living in India since 2011 and 2012, respectively, responded to the Centre's recent affidavit through advocate   and said, "Specific allegations against individual members of Rohingya community in India need to be dealt with on a case to case basis. Apart from the fact that there is no complaint against the petitioners of any illegal activity, according to our information, there is not a single FIR registered against Rohingyas in any matter that would jeopardise national security. 
 
  "If there is some credible evidence or information that any members of the Rohingya community/refugees are involved in any activity that would harm national security interests of India, those individuals may either be dealt with in accordance with Indian law or they can be refused refugee status under the exclusion clause of the 1951 Refugee Convention." 
 
  The petitioners quoted a TOI report on the National Human Rights Commission going public with its stand that it would oppose the Union government's decision to identify and deport 40,000 Rohingya refugees. They also cited numerous occasions where India, despite not being a signatory to two international agreements on refugees, had reiterated its policy of compassion and non-forcible return of refugees . 
 
  They said Rohingya were not seeking a right to move freely or reside anywhere within India but seeking protection of their right to life guaranteed to all persons in India by the Constitution under Article 21. "If forcibly deported to Myanmar, the Rohingyas face imminent threat to their lives," they said and sought parity with India's protection and grant of asylum to Tibetan and Sri Lankan refugees in the past. 
 
  The Rohingya petitioners told the SC that the central government might be right in stating that deportation, diplomatic relations, citizenship, extradition etc were solely within the domain of the legislature and the executive, but "unconstitutional/excessive exercise of powers by Parliament and executive could be scrutinised for its validity by the judiciary". 
 
  Questioning the Centre's stand that all foreigners were to be treated alike, the petitioners said refugees formed a distinct category among foreigners. 
 
  "Rohingyas are being forced to flee Myanmar due to the atrocities systematically carried out against them on account of their religious and ethnic identity. Therefore, under international law, they are refugees who are fleeing persecution and cannot return to their home country," they added. 
 
 
