THANE: The   (NGT) recently rapped the   (TMC) for overlooking the indiscriminate chopping of the branches of age-old trees and fined them Rs 50,000, which is to be utilised for spreading awareness about environmental issues in the municipal schools. 

 The NGT western zone bench presided by Justice   and expert member Dr Ajay Deshpande, upheld the argument of the petitioner and citizen activist   who had raised his voice against the TMC's "mindless" cutting away of the branches of 25 full-grown trees lined up in the Shreenagar area of lake city.
 
 "In July 2015, a TMC-appointed contractor sliced away branches of the trees in the Shreenagar area without any permission from the tree officer. Under the guise of trimming, the contractor mercilessly chopped away all branches and all that was left was the tree log without a leaf on it. Such chopping is aimed to bring early death to the trees and it would also rob the neighbourhood of its natural beauty,"   said.
 
 Indulkar took up the issue with the municipal commissioner and the tree officer, both of whom, he claimed turned a deaf ear asserting that the civic body has the right to prune the trees in the larger interest. After a six-month-long wait Indulkar moved the NGT. He said the trimming was in contravention of the provisions of the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975.
 
 The TMC and tree officer filed a common reply and stated that permission for trimming was granted for some tress and other three trees were uprooted by unknown person and a complaint was registered against the offender with the police. The bench said, "The fact that there was no informed decision taken by the tree authority for trimming or pruning the trees, it raises a presumption that there has been environmental damage caused due to it. There is no material before us to rebut this presumption." Hence, the TMC is liable to pay Rs 5,000 to Indulkar and the other Rs 50,000 to be used to for the environmental education and awareness in the municipal schools.
 
