NAGPUR: Retired wing commander 62-year-old  , who runs the   at  , was bludgeoned by two masked robbers within the premises of Ordnance Factory, Ambazari in Wadi under broad day light on Monday before fleeing with cash Rs16.75 lakhs. The former air-force personnel, heavily injured, was heading to deposit the cash at State Bank of India, OF branch, when the incident took place. 

 Yadav, despite sustaining serious injuries on head and face, drove his four-wheeler with one hand to reach the Wadi police station to report the matter immediately. Putting up a brave face, Yadav reported the matter before the cops before heading for medical assistance. Yadav, taken aback by the attack, did not give up easily until the miscreants delivered repeated blows with hockey-sticks wrapped in coloured papers. The cash was collected during the transactions over the weekend. 
 
 This is second time Yadav had to fight goons. In July 2009, a 10-member chaddi banyan gang had attacked Yadav’s family sneaking into his residence at Airforce housing colony at Dabha. The Yadavs had put up a brave fight then against the armed robbers. Yadav’s son Rishiraj and his wife Kamla were injured by the dacoits who had decamped with valuables worth Rs1.5 lakh then. The case was detected but the dacoits were acquitted by the court for want of evidence then. 
 
 Yadav said that he is mostly accompanied by his supervisor while heading to deposit the cash but was alone during the latest trip to bank when he was robbed. “I had least expected such an incident within the security of the defence locality. The robbers came on a bike attacking me from front. I could resist feebly as they had already delivered hard blows on my head and face,” he said. “I had to use on hand to block the bleeding while driving fast using the other to reach police station,” said Yadav. Despite being robbed, Yadav said that he had faith on Maharashtra police which had cracked his earlier case. 
 
 He said, the robbers must be in their mid-20s and were medium built. “They did not speak anything but straight away got into business as I had just taken few steps ahead after parking my four-wheeler,” he said. 
 
 Sources from police department said the SBI bank had CCTV inside its premises but not outside. “The case is a blank one as there are little clues now,” said a Wadi police officer. “This is sure case of a tip-off by an insider or someone who knew Yadav’s movement,” said the officer.
 
 Police have started quizzing the employees of Yadav. “We have procured full list of the employees,” said another cop. 
 
 Apart from Wadi police, the crime branch, too, has joined in the probe.
 
