By Rituparna Chakraborty

 With   now looking inevitable, there is a mad scramble to predict which jobs would last. We are surrounded by debates on what should be done and how should one handle the imminent redundancies in existing skills. Can policies stem or redirect the drift? Can we predict the future and plan for same? While at the top end of the skill landscape, the immediate future appears to be in  ,  , 3D printing and data sciences, at the vocational levels, there is a dire need for skilled electricians, plumbers, carpenters, welders et al. However, there is one career option which gets less attention and that is  . It never comes up as a career option for a newbie at dinner conversations with the family.
 
 When I was young, I wanted to grow up to be a sales person. Hailing from a family of doctors, engineers and PhDs, I kept my ambition a closely-guarded secret. In the absence of any guidance, I did not know what learning capabilities I required to become a good sales person. Fortunately, navigating through an economics and management degree, I found my way towards starting with what I always wanted to do – sell. From where I stand today, it was probably the wisest investment I made.
 
 In his book Sapiens, Yuval Noah Harari shares how “the art of getting along” helped Homo Sapiens survive this long even though Neanderthals were probably genetically stronger. Selling taught me how to get to my goals by negotiating my way through people on whom I had no control or a reporting relationship, in an organisation or in personal life. Surely, I have learnt to understand each human being for who they are and what motivates them in different situations.
 
 As we progress in our career, I believe this becomes a key differentiator between achieving C-suite or otherwise. Contrary to popular beliefs, which suggest that good salespeople are masters of eloquent yet insincere rhetoric, we are usually by the end of an arduous day taught to be “well informed, well prepared and well rehearsed”. A seasoned salesperson knows that in matters of money, we can’t lag behind competition.
 
 Being out on the road, away from the luxuries of fancy office spaces, early in my career kept me from falling into the inevitable death trap of entitlement. More importantly, the exposure to unknown faces, competition, clients helped me stay ahead of the   at all times and significantly contributed to my professional development. It expands our professional network far and beyond those we create within our own organisation.
 
 In our career “who we know” becomes more important than what we know. Nichiren’s Buddhism practices the philosophy of turning poison into medicine in daily life. Salespeople learn to do that on the job every day wherein they take their customers problems, challenges and “create value” for them, while creating value for themselves. When, one of India’s leading entertainment chain wanted to ramp up their manpower by double, but only during the weekends, it was one such moment of truth for me as a salesperson. We came up with the concept of weekend temping in India. This is how, as salespeople, we learn to transform an adversity into an opportunity.
 
 Selling helped me, and it still does, in achieving the highest levels of “self awareness”. In sales, one spends time making decisions all through the day — decisions around who to meet, who to pursue, what solution to provide, how much discount is appropriate or when to escalate to close a sale. This acts as our immediate score board. The results are instant and that helps us correct our erroneous assumptions about our own self, our actions and others much sooner and with naked accuracy. This compels us to be flexible in our opinions and ideas and not get caught up in preconceived notions about the self, people or the environment. Let’s face it. All through our lives, we are all salespeople! We are always selling – whether it is to persuade one’s toddler to have vegetables or a spouse to watch a Bollywood masala tear-jerker. It is the basic operating system of survival and the best part being, it is agnostic to time, place and product. Above all, selling has taught me how to overcome the fear of rejection and still have a smile on my face, determination in my mind and hope in my heart to turn things around. Fear of rejection can manifest into a fear for failure. Selling, on the other hand, teaches us that just like success isn’t permanent so is the case with failure and hence we need to constantly be on the treadmill.
 
 In sales, we teach ourselves to build a pipeline so that even if there are four nays, the fifth is bound to be a yay. Paraphrasing Edison – “Our greatest weakness lies in giving up, the most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time.”
 
 So when I find myself caught amid heated debates as to whether selling is an art or a science, it amuses me. The heart of sales lies in discipline which forces us to be brutally honest about ourselves as it is this truth that compels us to adapt and carve out our future and keeps us afloat each day at a time. Unlike others, a sales person has nowhere to hide — either you have your numbers or you don’t.
 
 Much has been touted about the need to revitalise manufacturing to create more jobs in India and undeniably so. However, there is distance to cover as the intent becomes a reality on ground. On the other hand, there is huge concern around the challenges being faced by the technology industry. Sales has again come to the rescue here as well! The silver lining is that there is a rapid increase in demand for sales professionals across services and domestic consumption-driven sectors like e-commerce, FMCG, consumer durables, healthcare & pharma. Sales, actually, constitutes 50% of all jobs that we ( ) have provided in the last five years and constitutes over 65% of all our vacancies at any given point of time.
 
 Average salary in sales with someone with zero to six months experience is touching around Rs 22,000 a month and with incentives, they could be easily taking home almost 75 to 100% more. So to today’s youth, I would like to say: Start with selling, just like Steve Jobs, Dhirubhai Ambani, Benjamin Franklin did. There is little doubt the world has got a whole lot complicated in the last couple of years and given the uncertainty surrounding the future of jobs — it’s safe to assume that as much as we need our surgeons, scientists, lawyers, music directors and nursery schoolteachers, as long as the world lasts, we would need our share of sellers as well.
 
 The writer is co-founder & executive VP, TeamLease Services. All views are personal
 
 
