BENGALURU: As the wait continues for the revamp of the Bangalore   Stadium, organizers of tournaments are now faced with a new menace -snakes that have made the bushy areas behind the corner flags at the northwestern and southern ends their home.

 Cracked ceilings and broken chairs greet spectators at super division and `A' division league matches organized by the   but what stands out is the thick underbrush around the artificial turf. “The organisers are scared to send their ball boys to get the ball from the bushes, especially the area between the northern and western stands as there are a lot of snakes.What if the kids get bitten by a snake? We heard that efforts of BDFA officials to get the area cleaned also didn't work as labourers were not ready to take the risk,“ some of the former players told TOI.
 
 The landmark venue, once a buzzing arena which hosted some of the prestigious matches in the country, is now a picture of neglect. The last bit of cleaning was done by the Ozone club recently before the start of the second division league but even that was not enough. BDFA needs the help of BBMP workers and even wildlife experts to clear the area of snakes,“ they added.
 
 “Even the areas surrounding the building that earlier housed the Football Academy and which is now being used by the Bengaluru FC club are in bad shape with garbage thrown into the bushes,“ sources said.
 
 A stadium employee said he and his colleagues killed at least three cobras. “Some of these snakes were 10-12ft long.We killed a few of them but there are plenty more for sure,“ he said. Another former footballer who visits the sta dium regularly said even the main stand is not free from snakes. “My friends tell me that there are plenty around.The washrooms in the players' dressing room and near referees' room are in a bad shape without running water. People have seen snakes there. These reptiles have been found even near the players' entrance to the turf,“ he added.
 
 A top BDFA official said they have requested the state body to help clean up the venue. “They have agreed to do it soon,“ he said.
 
 The stadium was one of the shortlisted venues for this year's FIFA U-17 World Cup.But with the Karnataka State Football Association unable to get the required permissions from the state government the city lost a golden chance. The stands last got a coat of paint in 2013 when Bengaluru FC had made the stadium their home ground during their inaugural season in the I-league.
 
 
