GOA:   fell in love with Goa on his first visit to India in 1990, when he spent five weeks in the coastal state with his wife, Elfie. Despite being hooked on to the pristine beaches and local delicacies, the sight of homeless people sleeping on the streets caught his attention. A normal tourist would buy the destitute some food or lend some money, but this German guardian angel took it upon himself to provide them with opportunities for growth and development, that they may have a better life.

 “Some families had a dozen-odd children, not educated and loitering around the streets. They had no opportunities, no schooling, but had to still support their parents,” says the 70-year-old, who has since made around 40 trips to Goa and stays in the same hotel, in the same room, every single time.
 
 After discussing this through with his wife, he decided to invest in their education. “As we began scouting for someone who could implement our ideas in Goa while we were back in Europe, we met this server at a popular pub, who was strict, yet kind. His name was Vincent D’Souza, and we thought he was the right man for the job. We began with four students from St Francis Xavier High School, Siolim. We would write to them from Germany, the letter would take two weeks to get here and then the response would reach us in another fortnight, yet this communication was essential,” he says, reminiscing about the small beginnings in 1992. 
 
 Schwartz’s friends in Germany were impressed by his work and began approaching him to offer support to more students. On his next trip to Goa, he had collected enough money to fund education for around 15-20 students. “Then, as divine providence would have it, we were introduced to Stella Varghese, the headmistress of Our Lady of  , Arambol. Stella helped us identify deserving students in the school who needed funding. We visited their homes and met their parents to understand their background,” says Schwartz, adding that the turning point was when he was introduced to Stella’s husband, Jacob, an educationist in Pernem.
 
 Together, the Schwartz and Varghese families began a vocational training institute in Paliem in 1995. In its first year, the Bhumika Technical Institute started with two trades—turner and electrician. Today, the institute offers training courses in plumbing, welding, tailoring, automobile mechanics, home nursing, etc. This spurred them onto providing scholarships for intellectual but poor students. 
 
 In 1997, Schwartz helped launch Keerti Vidyalaya Technical Institute, which offers six job-oriented vocational courses. As the demands kept increasing, more infrastructure was a necessity. In 2013, they established the Holy Cross Indo-German Techno Centre in Siolim.
 
 Set up by Schwartz, the   has sponsored the education of nearly 3,100 students over the last 25 years. Schwartz was 44 when he set on his mission and, most of the time, paid from his own pocket to travel to India and sponsor the unprivileged children. “As a bank manager, I had a stable job with a decent pay, but it wasn’t really interesting,” says the former employee of a German bank.
 
 The philanthropist draws his inspiration from his humble upbringing as a village boy who helped his mother in the family garden, growing potatoes, beans, carrots and other vegetables. When not gardening, he spent time in helping out at the family-owned bakery. “I was the eldest of five siblings and we learnt to be independent from a very young age. I got my first bicycle at 14 and rode it around the countryside of Borssum, in Emden. I preferred playing football instead of doing my homework, like every other boy, and even got myself enrolled in a rowing club,” says Schwartz.
 
 The Home Nursing Bureau, established in 2005, was another huge milestone in Schwartz’s efforts to train locals to their strengths and not force upon them something beyond their capacity. There are 300 registered home nurses as part of the bureau that serve in different parts of the state. Many orphan children and school dropouts have also benefited from the family assistance and scholarships provided by the foundation.
 
 For someone who loves his dal, aloo gobi, fish, and chicken in cafreal and xacuti gravy, Schwartz couldn’t wait until his next trip to Goa to indulge in his favourite dishes, so he carried the recipes home. “I think the strategy of cooking an Indian meal when I meet potential sponsors, who are mostly friends and sometimes acquaintances, has really worked,” says Schwartz. Today, he has the support of around 460 active sponsors from Germany, who are mostly judges, teachers and small businessmen. The beneficiaries of this educational funding have gone on to become doctors, chartered accountants, advocates, teachers, engineers and other professionals.
 
 “It feels good to know I have made a difference along with my friends from India. I completely detach myself from Germany when I am here. If you ask my wife, she says I am obsessed with my work in Goa; which reminds me, I have to head back to the beach, where she is waiting,” says the ever smiling Schwartz.
 
