NEW DELHI: Taking a grim view of sporadic incidents of violence against drivers who defied call for strike against Ola and   services, the   on Friday warned the agitators.

 Justice R S Endlaw also directed Delhi Police to ensure immediate safety of drivers and vehicles being allegedly targeted by driver unions and advised them to agree to “peaceful commercial negotiations” instead of trying to “extract” something by violence. The court reminded the unions that they must “get it out of their head” that they can “extract” something from these companies by agitations as they do with the government.
 
 “Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) or any other officer of equal rank nominated by the commissioner of police is requested to forthwith ensure that drivers/owners having contract with plaintiffs (Ola and Uber) and wanting to ply are not stopped or blocked from plying and that their vehicles are not damaged,” the court noted.
 
 The court’s order came on petitions filed by Ola and Uber claiming that despite the HC’s restraint orders against the two drivers’ unions from blocking or interfering with their services, there have been incidents of violence, including burning of a car.
 
 However, the two unions — Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi (SDAD) and Rajdhani Tourist Drivers’ Union — denied responsibility for such incidents of violence. 
 
 While SDAD said it has been agitating peacefully with permission, Rajdhani said that it was only operating tourist cabs and it was SDAD which was involved in violent incidents.
 
 But the court pointed out if such incidents continue the driver unions would stand to lose as people would adopt other means of transport and will no longer have faith in them. It noted if the unions are unhappy with the rates fixed by Ola and Uber, they have other options such as operating black and yellow taxis.
 
 The court asked the unions to spread the word that such incidents of violence should not happen so that a peaceful atmosphere is created for a meeting with Ola and Uber. The court listed the matter for further hearing on February 28.
 
 During the hearing, Ola and Uber said they have made several efforts for dialogue, but they cannot have meetings while these incidents of violence and "hooliganism" are occurring. The court was hearing the pleas of Uber and Ola seeking to restrain SDAD and Rajdhani and anyone working on their behalf from disrupting their services.
 
 
