MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader   dropped hints on Monday that his party would walk out of the state government after the February 21  . Should this happen, the 28-month-old Devendra Fadnavis government will be reduced to a minority in the 288-strong Maharashtra assembly, opening up possibilities of new political equations in the state.

 “Every political decision has its own time...a 'muhurat'. Sena president Uddhavji Thackeray has announced that we will not have a tie-up with any party . He has made it clear that the Sena will hereafter be on its own...You must read the political meaning. At this point, I will only say that the Fadnavis government is on notice,“ Raut told a Marathi news channel.
 
 The statement sparked speculation in political circles that the Sena may pull out of the government. However, chief minister Fadnavis scoffed at such talk, saying the remarks were made by an “unimportant“ person in the Sena, and reiterated that his government would last the full term. Poll rhetoric or not, Ma toshree will have to take a pragmatic view of the political situation, given the fact that several senior Shiv Sena ministers are reluctant to give up power. At least two party ministers are said to be close to CM Fadnavis. Uddhav Thackeray cannot overlook the fact that quitting the state government may fuel a fresh crisis in the party.
 
 Again, many in the Sena feel that if the party walks out, it will that if the party walks out, it will have to quit the BJP-led NDA too at the Centre--and face the Modi government's wrath. A party veteran said worriedly , “The Modi regime may go on a vendetta spree if we snap all ties with the NDA.“ Nevertheless, Raut's statement is an indication that pressure is mounting on Uddhav to map out the Sena's political course on its own steam, minus an ally , sources in Sena Bhavan said. “A sizeable section of the middle-rung and grassroots level activists want the party to make a clean break with the BJP . The thought has begun to gather strength after Uddhavji decided to snap poll ties with the BJP for elections to 10 corporations and 25 zilla parishads,“ said a Sena vibhag-pramukh. “Uddhavji has ruled out (BJP president)  's statement that the BJP and the Sena were involved in a `friendly match' in Mumbai,“ he pointed out.
 
 If Sena leaves the Fadnavis government, Uddhav will be in a better position to assert his authority , quell indiscipline in the party , infuse fresh blood and face the electorate with greater credibility , said analysts. Stating that Raut was in favour of ending the state-level alliance, the vibhag-pramukh said, “Rautsaheb is of the firm view that Sena can prepare for the 2019 assembly elections right from now if we quit the Fadnavis government.“
 
 Addressing a rally in Andheri on Monday , Uddhav said, “CM Fadnavis should reveal how they have proved their majority on the floor of the House in the assembly. They have got support from whom?“ he asked. Uddhav said PM Modi should address a rally in the city , so it will be clear that the Sena wins even after he holds a rally.
 
 
