AHMEDABAD: After signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Army to set up a research and development cell, the Indian Institute of Technology,   (IIT-Gn) is all set to sign a pact with the   to develop indigenous technologies for sea warfare.

  Dr  , IITGn director, confirmed the development, but said that talks with the Indian Navy are at a primary stage. Sources in Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, however, are hopeful that the institute will sign an MoU with the Indian Navy in a week.
 
 This will be the first for an IIT to help two defence forces including the Navy and the Army in conducting researches. The initiative, “Make Projects”, by the defence forces is under the “Make In India” programme of the Union government. “We are in talks with the Indian Navy to sign an MoU for research and development. We are finalizing it by understanding their requirements,” Jain said. “We have informed them about our work for the Indian Army, but as their requirements are less and altogether different from that of the Army, the final pact may take time,” he told TOI.
 
 “As Prime Minister   is insisting upon indigenous technologies under Make In India programme, we should not import articles from outside and if foreigners are not giving us technologies then we must start developing our own,” said IIT-Gn officials.
 
 In December last year, IIT-Gn signed an MoU with the Army to set up a research and development (R&D) cell on the IIT campus. The research cell will work with the faculty and research students to identify problems and possible solutions for the Indian Army.
 
 Under the R&D cell, the IIT-Gn scholars and faculties have conducted research on army uniforms, disposal of waste, manoeuvrability of warfare vehicles among other researches.
 
 IIT-Gn is likely to involve its   and faculty members in the specialised research and development cell exclusively meant for the Navy. The scope of research under the MoU with the Navy is still under formulation, said sources at IIT-Gn.
 
