PUNE: The stretch between   and Baner Road was buzzing with activity on Sunday as   had its first run in the area.

 From 6.30am to 9.30am, the entire road turned into a vehicle-free zone giving participants ample space to run-around, cycle, enjoy and rekindle the child in them.
 
 “This reminds me of a mela (fair) that used to happen in villages only this is like a new age fair for urban kids. Its a great place to come and enjoy for children while for the elders, it is like reliving the old times,” said Ashlesha Shah who had taken her two-year-old daughter Samyukta along with her for Happy Streets. “She enjoys the open space a lot. There is a lot of space to run around and there are activities even for her age. She loves the balloons and drawing with chalk on the road,” said Shah.
 
 For Aneesh Joshiram a standard VIII student and   of standard IX, the sporting area is the best part of Happy Streets. “We like the football area a lot. We stay nearby and this is an excellent place to play football, volleyball or any sports you like,” said Chaitanya.
 
 Ajit Deshpande, runs a software startup, but on Sunday he doned the hat of a yoga instructor. “I like to promote yoga, we have got a very good response from people and there is always a lot of enthusiasm from people to learn the suryanamaskar,” said Deshpande.
 
 Amit Dokania, his wife Sangita and their three children were attending Happy Streets for the first time. “There are all kinds of activities for every age group which makes it the ideal Sunday family outing. Happy Streets is a great place for the family to bond,” said Dokania.
 
 For Sara Awati, Nehal Sogani and Tanvi Thatre all students of standard VII in DAV Happy Streets was the ideal place to hang out with friends as their parents would never say no to a early morning outing. “We woke up early so that we could enjoy Zumba and Karaoke together,” said Sara.
 
 Nitin and Seema Karwa have been regulars to the Happy Streets organized in Aundh and Pimple Saudagar but they thought Baner was the best in terms of space for the event. “The concept of Happy Streets is good and High Street has a lot of space so there is enough space for all activities,” said Karwa.
 
 Ajay and Ramya, both IT professionals had brought along their one-year-old son and their parents, who are from Bengaluru, to the event. While Ajay wants Happy Streets to be a weekly event that continues all year through, Rajalakshmi, Ramya’s mother, wants the event to start in Bengaluru as well.
 
 Zumba was one of the biggest crowd pullers in the event. Chetan and Meghna, freelance dancers revved up the crowd for three hours making them dance away to various Zumba, Salsa, Freestyle and Bollywood numbers.
 
 Happy Streets is organised by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and  . The event, powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers, is aimed at popularising the concept of vehicle-free roads for fun and community activities.
 
