GURUGRAM: Residents of sectors 3, 5 and 6 have demanded a   on perennially congested   to ease the traffic bottleneck that leaves hundreds of commuters in lurch daily.

 On Tuesday, a group of residents met deputy commissioner (DC) Harinder Singh to apprise him of their problems and to press for a flyover. They also submitted to him a petition, signed by over 500 residents and addressed to chief minister  .
 
 The four-km-long   starts at Sector 5 and culminates at Kataria Chowk, connecting a large parts of Old Gurgaon with Old Delhi-Gurgaon road, MG Road and Signature Tower/ Huda City Centre Metro Station in New Gurgaon. A rough estimate suggests that around two lakh commuters use the arterial road on a daily basis.
 
 “Residents use the road to reach their work places in New Gurgaon, New Delhi and Noida. Besides, those going towards Daulatabad and Jhajjar also commute on this road. During peak hours, it takes more than one hour to cover this 4km distance due to heavy congestions,” said Dinesh Vashisht, president, Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sectors 3, 5 and 6.
 
 Kirti Mahajan of Sector 3 said the residents of Old Gurgaon had no other choice but to commute through this road to travel to other parts of the city and Delhi. “School buses and ambulances often get stuck in the heavy traffic, which takes a toll on children and patients,” he added. 
 
 Moreover, the slow-moving traffic has also become a major cause for air pollution in the area. “Vehicles move at a snail’s pace almost 12 hours in a day, releasing large amount of pollutants in the air. It poses serious health hazard for the people living in the surrounding area,” Mahajan said. 
 
 The residents believe that a flyover on the road will help ease the traffic and thereby reduce pollution in the area. “The problem can be solved by constructing a flyover on this road. It will be beneficial for the residents as well as devotees, who come from different parts of Haryana, western Utter Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi, to offer prayers at the Mata Sheetla temple here,” said Vashisht.
 
 Surender Kumar Bedi, a retired engineer and resident of Sector 5, said after meeting the deputy commissioner on Tuesday, they were hopeful that their demand would be considered seriously. “We are quite positive. The entire city of Gurgaon is getting a network of flyovers and underpasses to ease traffic. So, we hope to receive a positive response from the chief minister on our demand,” he added.
 
 
