Enjoy shopping on Mahatma Gandhi (MG) Road, but don’t want to face the chaotic traffic… Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) is all set to bring back the   on one of the city’s favourite shopping destinations and we couldn’t be happier about the news. Pune Times finds out more about this not-so-distant dream come true.

 
 It has been nine years since PCB closed down the walking plaza project on  . Although the reintroduction of the project was proposed and discussed many times, it was dismissed for many reasons, including the opposition from merchants. This time around the   and PCB are working together to come up with a way to reintroduce the walking plaza.
 PCB aims to make it a much-enjoyable experience, especially for street shoppers who frequent the place on weekends. They have already planned a series of meetings for this. DN Yadav, CEO of PCB, informs, “We are seriously thinking about the walking plaza and had few meetings with various stakeholders. However we are planning to talk to more stakeholders like Pune Camp Merchants’ Association (PCMA) and the residents. After this we will take the final decision.” While PCB is ready with its plans, the Pune Police too are very positive about them and are waiting for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) polls to be over, before they can focus their attention to this matter. Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner of Police, Pune, said that they are the one who initiated the dialogue with PCB recently. “In a recent meeting with PCB officials, we have discussed this issue and we are very much positive about having a walking plaza.” 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 While most of Puneites will be happy about the news, not all is hunky dory. The walking plaza is strongly opposed by the PCMA as they feel it does not benefit them at all. The plaza aims at providing more joy to shoppers and benefits small merchants, but affects bigger ones, claims Parag Shah, member of PCMA. “The plaza will be welcomed by some but not all prospective customers as these buyers are there for shopping and not for fun. Also, when the road turns into a walking plaza, many are unable to bring their vehicles on the road, thereby forcing them to walk long distances, an experience not many enjoy,” says Shah, adding, “The PCB should first solve basic issues of the area, before jumping into the project of a walking plaza. We should have basic infrastructure to support both merchants and citizens.” PCMA members are also of the opinion that the proposed plaza which has been set on the same principles of walking plazas elsewhere in the world, won’t work in Pune. They feel it will attract illegal   creating security and cleanliness issues. They believe that the authorities have already failed in tackling the hawker menace on MG Road and a walking plaza will be an open invitation for more trouble.
 
 
 Given their past experience and the several discussions and meetings, PCB officials are proposing a   from the parking lots to MG Road, in order to take care of the inconvenience caused to serious shoppers. A senior official (name withheld on request) from the PCB informs, “Golibar maidan can provide ample parking space and a shuttle service can be provided from there to MG Road, in solving the issue. One by one, we’ll come up with a solution for all the issues put forth by PCMA and others.”
 The merchants want to have a timing for the walking plaza such that it does not clash with the business hours. Shah adds, “Walking plaza in the morning will help people enjoy and won’t affect the business, balancing both sides of the issue.” To add to that, Yadav informs that PCB is also thinking of implementing the project on other streets of Camp, apart from MG Road. “The decision will be taken after a detailed discussion. Currently we are only planning the MG Road walking plaza. Once it is successful, we’ll implement the plan elsewhere,” reveals Yadav. 
 
 
