PUNE: State-run   has become the only medical college attached hospital in India to be awarded 80 G exemption certificate. 

 Individuals and organisations donating to the hospital will get the benefit of tax exemption under 80G of   Act.
 
 Impressed by the honour, the state government has asked other state-run medical colleges attached hospitals to adopt the   model to improve healthcare services.
 
 "Till today, tax exemption for donations under 80G was mainly limited to non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Sassoon   is perhaps the first government institution to get 80G certificate in India and other government-run medical colleges attached hospitals should emulate this model. We have already directed them to follow suit," said Praveen Shingare, director,   (DMER).
 
 DMER supervises the working of institutions, including medical and dental colleges, teaching hospitals and health units under its purview. And it also controls and regulates the administration of government medical colleges and hospitals in the state.
 
 Senior spine surgeon  , dean, B J Medical College, which is attached to Sassoon General Hospital, said, "It took us almost four years to complete the task and get the 80G certification. To bring the hospital to super speciality level involves huge expenditure. The 80G facility will encourage public participation, thereby improving the services offered by public hospital."
 
 Sassoon General Hospital treats about 7 lakh patients in its outpatient department and 70,000 indoor patients annually. These patients require minor to super-speciality level treatment. 
 
 "In view of the proposed cancer hospital for poor and various other services that need to be scaled up, we appeal to the people to come forward and donate generously," said Chandanwale, who assumed charge in May 2011 and initiated the donation drive thereafter.
 
 The hospital has started a range of services, including a shelter for patients' relatives, human milk bank for orphans and ill babies and a haemophilia centre for free treatment of patients with blood disorder, among various other initiatives, through citizens' participation.
 
