CHENNAI: At a conclave organized by   in the city, which was also her first public appearance since taking over as general secretary of the AIADMK, V K   fought back her tears as she unveiled the portrait of former chief minister  . She stayed on at the venue until Rajya Sabha MP V Maithreyan finished his speech, paying tributes to J Jayalalithaa. She left the venue minutes before TN chief minister O   was to pick up the microphone and recall his departed leader.

 The incident served to bring home the dual power centres in the AIADMK, a phenomenon the party is not accustomed to. While   and Left governments have worked out dual power centres in other states, AIADMK leaders seem yet to come to terms with this real ity. Periodically , OPS drops in at Poes Garden, where Sasikala resides, to discuss issues with her. But the framework is yet to be laid for the two to work in tandem and coordinate. For instance, at the AIADMK party office in Chennai recently , OPS parked his vehicle outside the office to enter the office and greet Sasikala during a party workers' meeting.
 
 Last week, both released several statements on hot button issues, from jallikattu to fishermen. A few hours before the chief minister shot off a letter on Thursday seeking the latter's intervention to release Tamil fishermen from Lanka, the general secretary came out with a statement urging Modi and the Sri Lankan government to resolve the issue. A request from Sasikala to Modi to release a commemorative coin and a special postage stamp for MGR's birth centenary came in an hour after OPS' letter on the same issue made its way to the media.
 
 Political observers say that it would require a leader comfortable in his or her skin to pull off a powersharing arrangement. “But Sasikala is not so confident of her abilities and she will not want Panneerselvam as head of government. If he performs well, people may end up supporting him which will make Sasikala's position untenable. It is her lack of confidence that may wreck the current set up,“ said Badri Seshadri, political analyst.
 
 Nevertheless, vowing to continue the march towards realizing the vision of “Puratchi Thalaivi Amma,“ (a reference to Jayalalithaa) Panneerselvam on Monday did not fail to mention “Chinnaamma“ (a reference to Sasikala) twice in his 15-minute speech.
 
