AHMEDABAD: It was the dream of Mittal Patel, 26 — a native of Aravalli district — to don khaki. However, when she was selected and had to start training at the   (GPA) at Karai in February 2016, she faced a dilemma. “My daughter Jaynee was 17 days old when I arrived at the GPA,” said Mittal, who stood 36th among 421 police sub-inspector ( ) trainees at GPA and bagged the Director’s Trophy for the best effort in training. 

  “I had two choices — either to undergo the physically and mentally demanding course or to opt out,” Mittal said. “I chose the first option and plunged into the course with the tremendous support of my mother-in-law  , who stayed with me and took care of Jaynee. GPA officials and staff members were also supportive.” Mittal married Brijesh three years ago. He is a cluster resource centre employee with the state government’s education department. One grouse on her perfect day was the absence of her husband who had to collect his appointment letter. 
 
 “I liked outdoor activities the most, whether they were drills or horse riding,” she said. “My unit members were like my extended family who frequented my quarters to play with Jaynee.” Bhagwatiben, her mother-in-law, said that she was proud of Mittal’s achievements. “She was determined to crack the exam. She had stayed in Gandhinagar for three months to prepare,” Bhagwatiben said. “She has put her blood and sweat to balance her roles as a police trainee and a new mother, in a period when working women would have enjoyed maternity leave. We hope her dream to be an excellent officer comes true.” 
 
 Use your skills for state’s betterment: CM
 
 Times News Network
 
 Ahmedabad: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani observed the passing out parade of the 9th batch of police sub-inspectors (PSIs) consisting of 421 cadets, on Monday morning at the   Academy (GPA), Karai. Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), was the special guest. M S Dagur, ACS (home), and in-charge DGP P P Pandey were also present along with senior IPS officers. This is the largest single batch of PSIs and woman PSIs in Gujarat.
 
  In his speech, Rupani praised the highly qualified batch — consisting of 91 engineers and 146 postgraduates — and told the new PSIs to use their skills for the betterment of Gujarat. “It’s a responsibility to serve and protect people,” he said. “I also want to praise women PSIs who have opted for the highly challenging career and proved themselves better than their male colleagues.” The CM released a book on martyrs of the Gujarat Police, covering the 1960-2011 period, and inaugurated athletics track and the central dining hall at the GPA.
 
