INDORE: Mandsaur police busted a gang and arrested eight persons in connection with extortion calls made to traders some days ago. All accused aged below 22 years. 

 Just 10 days after a diamond trader and his kin were shot in Neemuch and Mandsaur area after they refused to give in to an extortion bid, two more businessmen received extortion calls in the city on February 18. Both the complainants received similar kind of calls, in which accused asked them to send Rs 10 lakh at   and gave them three days to arrange the money.
 
 The accused allegedly threatened them that they will be shot at in a similar way as local diamond trader Anil Soni if they will fail to send the money.
 
 One of the complaints was received at Mandsaur police station late night by Sunil Dakh, a local businessman, while another complaint was lodged by Rajesh Namdeo, a transport businessman, just few hours after Dakh’s plaint.
 
 Namdeo said that he had received a similar call from some unidentified person, who asked for Rs 10 lakh and threatened to kill him and his family members if his demands were not met.
 
 Following this, police began its investigation and the mobile numbers from which the extortion calls came to the duo were traced.
 
 “Shahrukh Hussain of Khanpura, Shadab alias Golu Khan, Arshad Mev of Khilchipura, Farhan alias Ashil Khan of Kanch Ki Masjid, Amzad Pathan of Ravidas Colony, Moin Khan of Khandwa and Shakir alias Bunty Khan of Khajpura were arrested and booked under relevant Sections of the IPC,” said OP Tripathi, Mandsaur superintendent of police (SP).
 
 During investigation, it came to fore that one of the accused had made the calls to both the complainants using the same phone from a secluded lane in Jaypura area.
 
 The accused were arrested and the entire blueprint of the operation that they had planned was seized from them. It also came to fore during investigation that they had planned to kidnap one S Vyas owner of a petrol pump by lacing his drinks with sedatives for a ransom amount. “We managed to bust the gang before they could carry out the activities,” said Tripathi.
 
 Other illegal items, including a country made pistol, an air gun and a duplicate revolver were seized from their possession.
 
