RANCHI: Developed states like Maharashtra and Karnataka need to gear up for a tough competition to put in place the country’s first high-speed mass transport infrastructure. Jharkhand, one of the less-developed states in India that’s organising its first ever global investor summit, is in advanced talks with the US-based Hyperloop   (HTT) for setting up a prototype of this futuristic transportation system in the state. In a sense, a state where public transportation is less developed, can leapfrog in building a public transportation system, a global tech-entrepreneur said.

 If successful, this could reduce the travel time between state capital Ranchi to Dhanbad, a distance of about 150 kilometres to just about 10 minutes, Bibop Gresta, chairman & CEO, HTT told a packed house at Momentum Jharkhand, the eastern Indian state’s first ever summit to attract investments from across the globe. At this speed journeys between Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Kolkata should take less than one and half hours.
 
 Hyperloop is an emerging technology that’s the brainchild of Tesla Motors’ founder Elon Musk in which a low-pressure tube that can carry passengers is magnetically levitated at a speed as high as 750 miles (about 1,200 kilometers) per hour. Globally two firms are in the race to commercially launch the   technology, of which HTT is one. HTT is also talking to the governments about a hyperloop system between Mumbai and Pune.
 
 In the first phase, HTT is proposing to the Jharkhand government to build a prototype spanning 8kms at a cost of about $200 million (about Rs 1,350 crore). Of this, 70% will be the company’s contribution while the balance 30% will be the government’s, Gresta said. The talks between the Jharkhand Government and HTT is moving fast and could result into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) soon. “We are talking to the chief minister here and there is a lot on the table…We are very impressed by the speed at which the talks are moving here,” Gresta said.
 
 The HTT chief also emphasised on the safety aspect which is a concern when someone thinks of travelling at such a speed, and also the cost aspect. Gresta said that the system was absolutely safe with a highly protected capsule costing about $2.5 million that will run like an intelligent car which, in case of an emergency, can stop within 6.4 seconds. “There’s nothing on te ground that is available which is as comparable,” he said.
 
 On a comparative basis, it costs between $40-70 million per km of rail track in India while HTT is proposing to build a hyperloop system at a cost of $20-40 million per km. In the best of conditions the cost of travel using hyperloop could be reduced by as much as 80%, Gresta said.
 
