LUCKNOW: The Bahujan Vijay Party president and supporters were cheering the candidate decked up with flowers and garlands. The group was advancing to file the   of Gardabh Singh Yadav, also the CM face face of the party. 

 However, officials at the Collectorate had a problem and Gardabh was not allowed in. 
 
 Protesting against the ‘system’ and the Election Commission’s procedure of candidate selection Bahujan Vijay Party (BVP) arrived at the Collectorate with a  . 
 
 Called Gardabh Singh Yadav, the donkey was announced as a candidate from Cantonment and also the chief ministerial face of the party in case BVP won the election.
 
 As the candidate and its party president began their march at 11am from Burlington crossing till Kaiserbagh to fill the nomination form, they were cheered by onlookers with whistles and claps. 
 
 As they reached the Collectorate, party members welcomed the animal with applause and displayed the party symbol, slippers, amid slogans. 
 
 However, their march was halted when security personnel at the district magistrate’s office stopped them at the gate. 
 
 The donkey was not allowed inside the campus. “Ye loktantra hai, janwar tantra nahi (This is a democracy, not an animal-o-cracy) ,” said an official. 
 
 Party president Keshav Chandra said he had chosen the donkey as a candidate in protest because, he added, there was no need of education or talent to be a minister. 
 
 On the name Gardabh Singh Yadav, Chandra said that Uttar Pradesh’s history was dedicated to Yadavs and hence the choice. 
 
 “I gave him the name hoping he could win the elections. The party has decided that if he wins the election, he will be the CM of UP,” Chandra said in all seriousness. 
 
 Chandra had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Deoria parliamentary seat in 1989. He formed BVP last October.
 
 As he and his supporters were turned away, a dejected Chandra said while patting Gardabh, “Yahi loktantra hai, jisme azaadi nahi hai kuch karne ki (This democracy gives you no freedom to do anything)”.
 
