PUNE: The merger of 34 villages in the Pune municipal limits will put an additional financial burden of Rs 5,720 crore on the civic body, whose entire budget for this year stands at about Rs 5, 600 crore.

 The civic body submitted the estimated cost to develop infrastructure in these to-be-merged villages after the state government filed an affidavit in the   stating it is “inclined” towards the merger last Thursday.
 
 As per civic officials, around Rs 300 crore will be required to create basic facilities like roads, drains and other amenities. The administration will use capital   of Rs 2,700 crore in the next four years, while almost the same amount will be required for maintenance of the facilities.
 
 The roads will need maximum expenditure of Rs 912 crore. It will be followed by drainage and storm-water facilities at Rs 857 crore. Water system will require around Rs 790 crore while solid waste management will need Rs 505 crore.
 
 “The merger is going to increase the inflow of people, because of which the population density may rise. It will lead to more traffic, calling for bigger roads,”  , head of PMC’s road department, said.
 
 He said the roads in these villages are narrow right now. “Due to this, vehicular moment is limited here. But looking at the future, we will have to build wider roads. It is going to be a huge challenge,” Raut added.
 
 The residents of these villages have urged the state government to decide on the merger issue at the earliest. A delegation of villagers had submitted a memorandum to the government last year, stating that the merger notification was issued in May 2014, but no action had been taken since then.
 
 Citizens’ group   had filed a petition in the high court to expedite the merger process. “The local governing bodies of the villages are financially sound. They are generating good revenue. So, raising the money will not be an issue for civic development,”  , convenor of the group, said. 
 
 After the merger,   would become the largest municipal corporation in the state. Its geographical area will increase from the existing 243.84sqkm to over 500 sq km — more than the size of the largest civic body of the state, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, covering an area of 480.24 sq km.
 
