PATNA: State education minister   on Tuesday said the government will soon upgrade research centres under   and Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU).

 Addressing the concluding session of the five-day international conference organised by Asian Development Research Institute ( ) here, the minister said, “Research is as important as financial aid that helps in making better policies for governance. I hope you all would have better research opportunities once these centres start functioning. AKU is also going to start Patliputra School of Economics, creating opportunities in the field of economics. We are also working on a school for journalism and mass communication. AKU has a centre for nano-science and technology on its premises.” 
 
 He said the state has made tremendous progress in higher education with the establishment of Indian Institute of Technology-Patna, Indian Institute of Management-Gaya, National Institute of Fashion Technology-Patna, Chanakya National Law University and two central universities. 
 
  governor Draupadi Murmu, who was also present on the occasion, said even after bifurcation 17 years ago, Bihar and Jharkhand they share a vibrant relation. Murmu said the mineral-rich Jharkhand and Bihar with vast tracts of fertile land can complement each other to achieve their economic goals. 
 
 Jharkhand’s food, public distribution and consumer affairs minister Saryu Rai said by pooling their resources, the two states can help in the development of the nation. 
 
 In his valedictory address, Lord  , professor at  , laid out ADRI’s agenda for social science research in the next 25 years. 
 
 Earlier in the day, associate professor Alpa Shah from London School of Economics and Political Science delivered a lecture on ‘Jharkhand in the Belly of the Indian Boom’. 
 
 Kaushik Ghosh from University of Texas at Austin presented a lecture on ‘The Shimmering Land: Adivasiness and the Ecological Imperative’ that offered insights into the tribal migration. 
 
 The lecture of Geoff Wood from University of Bath on ‘Negotiating Landscapes: Learning from Kosi’ dwelt upon how the people in the region negotiate adequate and functioning security for their own livelihoods and for those of their offspring. 
 
