NEW DELHI: In the first open disagreement with the AAP dispensation, lieutenant governor   has rejected the  's decision to give Rs one crore compensation to the family of ex-serviceman  , who had committed suicide over the   issue last year. 

 The LG turned down the proposal, sent by the Delhi cabinet for his approval, saying it was not in line with the state's compensation policy as the death had not occurred in the line of duty.
 
  Over the past two months, Baijal has cleared several decisions pending since the tenure of former LG Najeeb Jung. However, this rejection could fuel tensions between the government and the LG's office. The strain was evident on Thursday, as chief minister   attacked PM Narendra Modi over the move, calling him "anti-soldier". 
 
 Kejriwal took to Twitter to voice his disapproval. “Narendra Modi is anti-soldier. Modiji himself doesn't not provide good food to soldiers and when we are trying to help the family of the deceased soldier, why is he stopping us?" he tweeted.
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government will take up the issue with the LG again. “It was a cabinet decision and should have been respected," he said.
 
 Justifying the cabinet decision, Sisodia said, “When surgical strike happens they put up posters of soldiers around UP but when it comes to increasing their salaries the central government has no answer.” Like Kejriwal, he attacked the PM saying, “Modiji does not respect soldiers.”
 
 In his note to CM Arvind Kejriwal, Baijal said, as per the cabinet note, Grewal had consumed poison on November 1, 2016 during a protest for the implementation of OROP.
 
 “This specific case does not fall within the parameters of the scheme for grant of ex gratia payment, that is, death occurring in the discharge of official duty. Therefore, while I fully sympathise with the family of subedar (retd) late Ram Kishen Grewal, I'm not able to agree to the proposal for payment of ex-gratia relief in this case,” Baijal said.
 
 The LG added that he had explained his position to the chief minister during his meeting with him earlier this month.
 
 As per the existing scheme, ex gratia is payment is made in cases of defence, paramilitary forces, Delhi Police, home guard, civil defence and Delhi fire service personnel dying during the discharge of bona fide official duty. They have to be either working with Delhi government or Delhi Police or have their permanent address recorded at the time of joining service as Delhi (in case of defence para-military personnel). “The situations that qualify for ex gratia payment are well defined in the scheme," Baijal said.
 
 The LG's note cites the state revenue department as having clarified that the case of Ram Kishen Grewal was not covered under the existing scheme -“ex gratia scheme to war widows, war disabled, POWs, missing in war operations etc of defence personnel.”
 
 The department also said that the cabinet, in its decision dated December 8, 2016, had decided to make an exception in Grewal's case.
 
