CHARMINAR: Pioneer and practitioner of the Dakhni razor sharp wit and instantly identifiable humour, celebrated poet   `Khamaka' breathed his last last on Wednesday night. He was 85.

 The poet is survived by his wife, three sons and daughter.The family said that he was unwell for about a year and was suffering from paralysis.He was living with sons in Canada before moving back to the city last October.
 
 A renowned name in the Urdu and Dakhni literary circles, the poet took his pen name `Khamakha', meaning `un necessary' or `for no reason'.The pen name served as an indicator of his tongue-in-cheek brand of humour.
 
 Though a Hyderabadi by birth and heart, the poet moved to state Maharshtra where he served with the   in the capacity of the head draughtsman.
 
 Khamakha was a member of the Zinda Dilaan-e-Hyderabad, a collective of luminaries from the field of Urdu literature which includes eminent humorist Mujtaba Hussain, a Padmashri awardee.
 
 His use of the literary device of sarcasm and satire saw packed audiences not only in the city, but also among the Hyderabadi diaspora in  , Europe and   countries. But it was only after a video clip of him reciting his poem `Nai Boletoh Sunte Nai' went viral on social media, around six years ago, that he became a household name, especially among the youth. The poem describes the exasperation of a hen pecked husband whose pleas with his wife have fallen on deaf ears. 
 
 The audience goes into peals of laughter the moment the poet finishes the first few verses: Dekho kitta samjharaun main Nai boletoh sunte nai Apni man maani tum karraien Nai boletoh sunte nai His contemporaries remember him as a poet who defied conventions and as a man who wrote bluntly about subjects which were considered sacrosanct.
 
 Others like humorist Munawwar Ali `Mukhtasar' says that he was a man who wore many hats. While he is known for his Dakhni poetry, `Mukhtasar' pointed out that he was a musician as well. Khamkha's works are collected in Harf-e-Mukarrar and Ba Farze-Muhal. His more serious works are contemplative and deal with humility, fame and fortune.
 
