GURUGRAM: A combination of cold weather and showers earlier this week led to the death of five camels at an animal shelter in the city on Thursday and Friday. 

 Most camels in the shelter run by   (PFA) are either rescued from illegal smugglers or brought there by police for eventual rehabilitation back to Rajasthan. There are 74 more camels at the shelter, including 13 rescued on January 20 on the expressway while being transported to Delhi. 
 
 According to vets, rescued camels die due to three reasons — internal injuries and mental trauma caused during illegal transportation and unsuitable climatic conditions. “Camels die here in winter due to pneumonia as the weather is not suited to the camel’s natural habitat,” said Sudesh Yadav, a city-based veterinarian. “Winter here is very different from that of the desert. There is humidity in the air. Transporting camels to NCR is life-threatening for them.” 
 
 The rescued camels often have injuries, both internal and external, as they are stuffed in large numbers in trucks too small for them. Many camels have missing teeth and eye injuries as well, animal activists said.
 
 “The death of the camels is not the first incident of its kind here. Every year, we lose camels in this weather as both cold and humidity increase,” said Amit Chaudhery, president, PFA Gurgaon. “The Haryana government has no mechanism to send the rescued camels back. We request the authorities to send camels to their natural habitat in Rajasthan as we can provide them all the facilities, but not the climatic conditions and the food found only in their natural habitat,” said Chaudhery.
 
 Narender Chauhan, a lawyer and a PFA activist, added, “The death of camels is our failure to implement laws. The government of Rajasthan enacted the   (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Bill in 2015, which bans taking camels out of Rajasthan for any purpose or injuring them. Taking a camel out of its habitat is absolute cruelty.” 
 
 But smugglers usually get away by paying a meagre penalty of Rs 50. A camel is reportedly sold for anywhere between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh while pregnant camels fetch even higher prices. Camels are mostly transported for meat. 
 
 
