KOLKATA:   Jayanta Mitra on Tuesday tendered his   Keshari Nath Tripathi citing “difference of opinion” with the government.

 If the resignation is accepted, sources said, senior advocate Kishore Dutta figures in the state short-list to replace Mitra. The government has kept mum on the unfolding developments.
 
 Mitra speaking to ToI said, “I sent my resignation to the Governor this afternoon. I was having difference of opinion with the state government on certain issues. My job is to plead the cases in the best interest of the state and I have done so during my tenure.” Coinciding with Mitra’s resignation, additional advocate-general Laxmi Gupta also resigned. Gupta could not be contacted for comments.
 
 It is learnt that with the state more or less firming up Dutta to replace Mitra, Gupta’s position became untenable for he is senior to Dutta. Some, however, see Gupta’s resignation as a move to give the state more flexibility to make its choice for AG. 
 
 Mitra’s resignation isn’t the first. Before him, Anindya Mitra and Bimal Chatterjee, both barristers, had resigned from their posts during the   government’s tenure.
 
 Mitra’s tenure, however, had been the longest compared to them. He had consented to take up the post in December 2014. An economics graduate from Presidency College, Mitra studied at the London School of Economics. With a law degree from London University, he became a barrister from Middle Temple in 1963. He then joined the Calcutta bar and specialized in constitutional, arbitration, corporate and commercial laws. He became a senior advocate in 1987. “It was an enjoyable stint. I will revert back to my usual practise,” Mitra said.
 
 Mitra’s difference of opinion jibe, therefore, triggered fresh debate on what were these contentious issues.
 
 According to a source, from the HC’s order over immersion of Durga idols to the more recent ones including permission to RSS to hold a meeting in Brigade Parade Grounds, it was being increasingly felt that a person with more direct exposure to criminal law deliberations should be helming the AG’s post. In this context, Dutta’s possible appointment can have a reason for he has worked as a junior to senior criminal lawyers Milon Mukherjee and even Trinamool MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee.
 
 The AG , among others, argued for the state in the Narada sting operations case in which a section of top Trinamool leadership is indicted.
 
 Another senior party functionary, however, suggested that the resignation — and the events that are largely expected to follow — are an indication on the increasing clout of a senior party leader, and a lawyer himself, in advising and formulating the state’s legal strategy. 
 
 For over the last week legal circles were agog with the buzz of Mitra’s impending resignation and Dutta’s appointment. Mitra then had dismissed talks about his possible resignation. On Tuesday, he himself confirmed the same. Dutta remained unavailable for comment. 
 
 
