NAGPUR: Though India has advanced in performing dental implants, the facility is still not available to the poor. Mumbai-based senior periodontologist Dr A Kumarswamy said, “The cost of   is too high since our country still hasn’t started commercially manufacturing it.”

 Dr Kumarswamy was in the city to attend the three-day conference on ‘Dental Implantology’ organized by   at   under the leadership of Dr Mohit Zamad.
 
 Explaining the current scenario of dental implants, Dr Kumarswamy told TOI, “Every Indian clinician uses imported implants. Europe and United States (US) supply the high-end implants, while countries like China, Korea and Israel supply the ones costing slightly less.”
 
 He said, “In India, only the Defence Research and Development Organization ( ) is manufacturing implants, but they are only for research purposes. The moment we start manufacturing, pricing will come under control.”
 
 He said, “A city like Nagpur, which has high tobacco consumption, obviously has good number of patients, mostly from poor class, who need to be catered. Many poor visit the three available government dental colleges in the state at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Mumbai. At present, the implants done at these colleges are very few. Basically, there is nothing to boast about, all due to the high cost and lack of trained dentists.”
 
 However, even if the country starts performing implants in good number, the story doesn’t ends there said, Dr Kumarswamy.
 
  “Tobacco consumption after surgery will have even more severe damage on the gums. So, after the implant, if the doctor doesn’t keep a strong follow-up it’s of no use. A strong system needs to be built where there is a check-up after every three months in the first year, every six months in second year, and one every year after that.”
 
 Dr Kumarswami said more efforts are needed, like the first one-year fellowship programme for clinicians in ‘Oral Implantology’ launched at Nagpur and Mumbai. He said, “The programme run in coordination with   ( ) began in 2015. VSPM’s dental college and research centre at Nagpur is hosting the fellowship of 12 students per batch. The second batch is about to graduate and now other dental colleges too want to start the course.”
 
 The conference was inaugurated by   (DMIMS), Sawangi, registrar Dr Rajit Borle while diabetologist Dr Sunil Gupta, Government Dental College dean Dr Vinay Hazarey, VSPM dental college dean Dr Usha Radke, conference organizing chairman Dr Deepak Kamdar and Dr Mohit Zamad were also present on the dais.
 
 
