NAGPUR: One of the main   during the recent   ( ) elections was   (CC) roads being built in the city. While the work on these roads progressed fast in the winter before polls they have slowed down in past one month. Most of the roads are only half ready with no sign of completion.

 TOI moved around the city to have a look at NMC’s  . In most places the concreting is complete but tiles remain to be fitted. On many roads there is no sign of any completion activity and half-completed roads remain as it is. Consequently, the residents are having difficulty in taking their vehicles out on the road or parking them in their homes or workplaces. Work on other side of such incomplete roads has not started yet. NMC is however, starting work on other roads.
 
 Dr SB Mujumdar, resident of Shivaji Nagar, in extremely angry with NMC’s working. “The work on the road in front of our house started about six months ago. It is not even half complete. NMC have not fitted the tiles as a result of we have difficulty in taking out the vehicles. When I complained to the contractor, he said that fitting tiles was not his job but another firm would do it. This is ridiculous. NMC should complete the road without any further delay,” he told TOI.
 
 Pushpa Bidkar, an earthen pot vendor of Rameshwari is despondent. “Cement road construction has blocked half the road and hence there is acute shortage of parking space. Consumers are not coming to my shop as they can’t park their vehicles. Work on the road had started before Diwali and even 50% of it is not complete. When will they complete the job? Will NMC compensate me for loss of business,” she said.
 
 A NMC deputy engineer admitted that road works had almost stopped for sometime. “Construction labourers who come from other states go home for Holi for a long period. They have returned only now,” he said. According to the engineer, pace will not pick up until rains arrive. “High temperatures are not suitable for cement road work,” he added.
 
 The engineer further said that it was a wrong impression that no work was being done on half-complete cement roads. “There is a 28 day curing period. Even though the road looks complete, they have to be strengthened,” he said.
 
 NMC is constructing 132 cement roads in three phases. Thirty roads are being constructed under phase I at the cost of Rs104 crore. According to executive engineer Narendra Borkar 60% work on this phase is over. Three roads are stuck up due to water pipelines.
 
 Some 59 roads have been taken up under phase II costing Rs279 crore. It has been divided into 22 packages. Work order of three packages has been issued but work is yet to begin. Tender process of another package is going on. There are 43 roads under the third phase costing Rs256 crore. Tender for these roads will be opened on April 12.
 
