MUMBAI: Bombay high court has refused to release a sailor accused of stalking and raping a senior naval officer's 14-year-old minor daughter at Cuffe Parade.   dismissed the bail application filed by 31-year-old Pawan alias Om Pal, who was posted as a leading steward at the naval headquarters in Colaba at the time of the incident.

 “At the time of the incident, the victim had not even completed 14 years of age. There is no specific reason as to why the complainant would falsely implicate the accused,“ said Justice Jadhav .
 
 The court said that as far as the accused's plea of alibi was concerned, “he would have to establish the same on the basis of cogent and convincing material, which can be considered at the time of trial“.
 
 Pawan, along with two three others, sailors   and   and a civilian Jeetendra Singh, was arrested by the Cuffe Parade police on July 20, 2015. Pawan, Prithvi and Jeetendra are accused of raping the school-going girl repeatedly over a period of four months by threatening her.
 
 Police said the girl was friendly with Rakesh. Prithvi allegedly obtained her number from Rakesh and started chat ting with her. One day alleged ly Prithvi called her to the terrace and asked to get physi cally intimate with her.
 
 When she refused, he apparently threatened to send e record of their phone con the record of their phone conversations to her father and then raped her. Prithvi, then, allegedly passed on her number to his friends, Pawan and Jeetendra.
 
 Apparently , the duo threatened to tell her father of her physical relations with Prithvi and sexually assaulted her. The crime came to light on July 18, 2015, when the girl's parents, while returning home, saw Pawan run out of their house. When questioned by her parents, the girl broke down and told them that she had been sexually exploited by the three accused. The girl's mother registered a case with the Cuffe Parade police and the accused were then arrested.
 
 Pawan's lawyers claimed that he was working with the   for the last 14 years and the girl's father was his superior. Pawan claimed that he was on duty at the time of the incident and had been falsely implicated in the case. The court had earlier released Rakesh, against whom there was no sexual assault allegation, on bail.Pawan sought bail on parity .The high court, however, rejected his plea.
 
 “In peculiar facts of the case, doctrine of parity would not be applicable,“ ruled Justice Jadhav.
 
