COIMBATORE: There was a gun shot, injuries were caused to  ,   was gathered at a hotel where some of them were   and the weapons used in the offence too were recovered during the probe. Despite all the telltale evidence, Coimbatore city police botched up a grave kidnap-for-ransom case, and let off the prime accused who has more than 40 cases including murder, kidnap, extortion and attempt to murder, pending against him. 

 It was at around 11.30pm on January 14, 2016 that gold merchant S Arulkumaran (aged 37 years), his wife and a child were allegedly abducted by a gun-wielding six-member gang of Godwin alias Thambiraja. Godwin entered police records in 1988 and is facing more than 40 cases. He and his five associates - Jhonson, 44, Paakku alias Anthony, 40, Bhaskaar alias  , 43, Rajan alias Maharajan, 36, and Paramasivam, 51 - allegedly arrived at their house in a car.
 
 As per the complaint, they beat up Arulkumaran's wife who was drawing kolam outside the house. They then attacked their security guard and family members using a hammer and kidnapped them at gun point. They also took away 107 sovereign gold jewellery and 1.30 lakh in cash. They were detained at a lodge in Chinniyampalayam, and Godwin sought a ransom of more than 1 crore. 
 
 Arulkumaran said he escaped from the lodge and immediately went to Peelamedu police station and lodged his complaint, following which Godwin and his accomplices were arrested. His family was also rescued.
 
 When this case came up for hearing before a Coimbatore court, police produced 26 witnesses, including two eyewitnesses. Police also produced 44 documents and 19 material objects, including pistols.
 
 In spite of the evidence, police failed to prove in the court that it was Godwin who had kidnapped Arulkumaran. They also failed to prove that Arulkumaran and his family were attacked at their home and at the lodge despite having   footage and pistol as evidence.
 
 First of all, they failed to get the mandatory sanction from the district collector to invoke the Arms Act, though it is a standard procedure. Another major flaw was that police produced the CCTV footage downloaded from the lodge's computer, but they did not have a certificate from a forensic lab to consider the footage as original, said an advocate.
 
 A total of five people -- Arulkumaran, his wife, security guard and two children - were injured in the incident. Though their clear version of events alone would nail the accused, police failed to collect the bloodstained clothes and preserve it in the manner known to law, to be used as a strong evidence.
 
 More importantly, though the FIR and complaint clearly spoke about the gun shot and that a bullet caused damage to a window and tiles in the home, police could not establish that the damage was caused by the bullet. They failed to collect the bullet from the house and get a favourable forensic report.
 
 
