GAYA: International Buddhist Council (IBC), the organisation representing more than 50 Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries, is opposed to Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) cover for Mahabodhi temple, the most sacred Buddhist shrine and seat of Buddha’s enlightenment. The Centre recently agreed to provide CISF cover to the shrine.   The demand for CISF cover was first made by CM Nitish Kumar and the then governor D Y Patil following terrorist attack on the shrine on July 7, 2013. Indian Mujahedeen’s sleeping Ranchi module had allegedly engineered more than 12 low intensity blasts inside the shrine and several other points in the temple township of Bodh Gaya.    IBC general secretary Bhadant Pragyadeep said the airport and factory like security was not needed at the shrine, which is regarded as a place of peace and non-violence. “You cannot concentrate on meditation with gun-toting and overbearing cops breathing down your neck,” said the IBC chief.    “People come here to de-stress themselves and indulge in spiritual exercises. CISF personnel are trained to treat everybody with suspicion. Almost all visitors to the shrine go there with a holy mission. Subjecting such innocent visitors to intense frisking and other forms of physical and psychological harassment would be counter-productive,” he added.    Agreeing that the shrine needs protection from terrorist attacks, Pragyadeep said discreet and less visible but effective policing was required at the temple. “CISF is not trained to handle religious devotees and mere presence of these jawans does not guarantee shrine’s security,” he said.    However, welcoming the move to provide CISF cover to Mahabodhi temple, Suresh Singh, president of the Bodh Gaya Nagar Vikas Manch, the citizen body formed to protect the interests of the Bodh Gaya stakeholders, said special training of the CISF personnel would be required to make them pilgrim-friendly without compromising on shrine security.    “It is a tough and tightrope walk. The security protocol design must not scare away the devotees and tourists,” Singh said. Asked about the likely impact of heightened security on tourist footfall, Singh said he was not in a position to comment on it.    Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee member Arvind Singh too favoured tourist-friendly policing in Bodh Gaya. “The sanctity of the place and the sentiments of the visitors should be respected,” he added.