MUMBAI: A   fractured his   when a distract-andsnatch gang stole his top-end cell phone at an Andheri traffic signal on Tuesday evening, but he chased the duo and caught one of them.

 The other member of the “tak-tak“ gang-called so after their usual modus operandi of knocking on the window of a car and distracting the driver while another stole a phone from the dashboard or seat -fled with his Rs 1-lakh iPhone.Farhan Sayed, a sales manager with a travel company , tried to talk him into a rendezvous with the intention of nabbing him too, but the man did not walk into the trap.
 
 After his phone was snatched, Sayed, 39, chased and caught Najis Ashpaq Shaikh, 22.Shaikh, who was handed over to the police, is a Meerut resident who used to come down to Mumbai every month to steal high-end mobiles from cars.
 
 The police have filed a case against Shaikh and his accomplice and sought CCTV footage from the area to identify the other accused.
 
 Sayed is worried about his phone. “My main concern is the loss of important data and client contacts in the phone as there is no backup,“ he said.
 
 Recalling the incident, Say ed said he had stopped at Satamwadi Junction in Andheri (East) around 7pm while returning from work in his XUV , when Shaikh knocked on the left window. Sayed seems to have immediately sensed somet hing out of place, because he grabbed his phone from the dashboard. “At that point, the signal turned green and I started driving with the phone in my hand. Suddenly , Shaikh's partner reached into the car from the right window, twisted my hand and snatched the phone. As I resisted, he crushed my fingers, breaking one. I didn't give up; I shouted `chor, chor', parked my car to one side and ran after them. Some passers-by also started chasing them as they ran towards the Chakala Metro.Shaikh was caught but his accomplice managed to escape with my phone,“ said Sayed.
 
 Later, the accomplice called on Shaikh's phone. Sayed tried to persuade him to return his mobile and offered to free Shaikh in return. When the man asked to speak to Shaikh, the phone was turned on speaker and Sayed and the cops heard him telling Shaikh that he could meet and using the phone as a decoy , help Shaikh escape. But the man seemed to have sensed something amiss and did not agree to a meeting. Senior inspector Pandit Thorat said Shaikh was produced in court and remanded in police custody.
 
