THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Water level at Peppara has dipped further and is just 3 metres short of the   level of 86 metres. There was a sudden dip in water level in the past three days as KWA opened valves to draw more water to improve level of water at Aruvikkara, which dipped to around 44.6 metres against a minimum level of 46 metres. On Tuesday, the level of water at Peppara was 89.05 metres and the level at Aruvikkara was 45 metres. 

 KWA sources said that though they planned to draw water from Peppara, it was dropped considering the fact that a further dip in level at Peppara might have unimaginable effects. 
 
 Meanwhile, KWA, which was puzzled over non-availability of water in various pockets at Jawahar Nagar, has finally found the answer in around nine apartments which were drawing more water than their neighbours. Instead of allowing these flats to draw water from the main line to their sumps, KWA will now lay a new line so that they will be isolated from the main line. 
 
 Sources in KWA said that they could not find an answer to the issue of non-availability of water in some areas in Jawahar Nagar despite operating the valve for more than 6 hours to divert water to areas which were not getting enough supply. “We finally found that around 9 old apartment complexes had connections which were taken even before government made it mandatory for flats to avail connections from 200 mm diameter distribution lines. These old flats, instead took connections from 110 mm PVC distribution lines. All water meant for the entire region flew directly into the sumps of these apartments and hence others didn’t get enough water,” said an official of KWA.
 
 The old flats in Jawahar Nagar were found taking their connections from 110 mm diameter PVC pipes which are shared by other domestic connections in the area and these pipes are connected to underground sumps directly. So the water would directly flow to the sump which are of higher capacity, denying supply to other domestic connections in the area. As per the new norms, flats, which consume more water has to take their connection from distribution lines which are of diameter 200 mm or more. This will ensure that smaller diameter lines will cater to other customers in the area.
 
  KWA has decided to lay new lines so as to isolate these flats at Jawahar Nagar from the line that distributes water to individual houses. 
 
 People in Kowdiar, Nathencode and Pangode gheraoed KWA chief engineer on Tuesday demanding equal availability of water. Kowdiar councillor K Muralidharan said that only some areas get water while others are not getting enough supply. “There were people from   who are facing water shortage for the past few days. CE was positive to our demands and promised corrective measures,” he said.
 
