Ahmedabad: Former residents of   have once again approached the district collector requesting for revocation of the Disturbed Area Act imposed in Chamanpura area so that they can dispose their properties that are lying unused since the 2002 riots.

 The former residents had first complained of their harsh situation and expressed their inability to sell their properties in December 2014, immediately after more city areas were covered under the Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act.
 
 In their application, they have reminded the district collectorate that it did not bother to respond to their first application for removal of bar on property sale to people belonging to other religions. They have also threatened to take to indefinite fast before the collector office, if their demand is not met in 15 days.
 
 When the disturbed areas laws are applied, a property owner cannot sell property to a person belonging to another religion than that of the owner. In July, 2013, the authorities added more residential colonies in such communally sensitive areas in the city.
 
 In the representation, the riots survivors have stated that when the co-operative society’s office bearers passed a resolution in 2013 permitting the members to dispose their properties at their will, the state government included the society in the Disturbed Areas Act. “At present, not a single member of Muslim community lives in the Meghaninagar area. Yet the society has been included in the disturbed areas and it has put us in a difficult situation,” the application reads.
 
 One of the residents, Firozkhan Pathan, said, “We are facing hardships. Once we manage to sell our houses, which are in ruins, we can purchase houses in other areas. We have no other option but to sell the properties because there is no question of returning to the colony.”
 
 Gulbarg Society has a chequered past. Some former residents turned against social activist Teesta Setalvad on the ground that her NGOs could not purchase the property to put up a museum as she had earlier promised. The society members had passed a resolution restraining its members to dispose of the property at their will. When the NGOs expressed inability to buy the property, the society passed another resolution allowing its members to sell their houses. But the restrictions came immediately after.
 
 
