KOLKATA: Residents of three blocks in   took to the streets on Friday night after the mysterious death of   in three days. 

  called local Trinamool councillor   to H block at 11pm on Friday where three dog carcasses were discovered. Dasgupta lodged an FIR with Patuli police station at midnight. 
 
 Of the six dead strays, the   on Friday night have been preserved for postmortem as advised by the veterinary surgeon who examined them. According to a preliminary report, the dogs died of poison in the food they were offered by some “unknown persons”. Locals claimed that around 25 crows also died after eating the food left over by the dogs that died on Tuesday. 
 
 According to an officer, the strays were killed by an anti-dog group operating in Patuli and adjoining areas. “After a preliminary investigation, we believe that these dogs were poisoned by an anti-dog group doing rounds of the area. We will intensify vigil to prevent such incidents in the future,” he said.
 
 Dog lovers in the area, however, were not assured. “We are worried over the fate of other dogs in the locality. It appears that an organized gang has been behind the killings. We are taking measures to shelter the rest of the dogs in our locality, but the law keepers also have a role in protecting these helpless stray dogs,” said Avisek Chatterjee, a resident of Patuli I Block. It was Chatterjee who found three dog carcasses near his house last Tuesday. 
 
 “We were alarmed but could not imagine that the same thing would be repeated in block H.” 
 
 Raj Sengupta, a resident of H block who used to feed the three dogs that died on Friday, rued that had he been vigilant, he could have saved them. 
 
 Dasgupta said he would definitely intensify vigil in the locality to ensure that such cruelty against animals was prevented at all costs. “Whatever has happened is gruesome. We need to get united and prevent such cruelty at all costs. Police have an important role to play in the movement initiated by the dog lovers,” he said. 
 
