Nagpur: After replacing its iconic Khaki half pants with trousers, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is now targeting to enhance its number of Shakhas (branches) to over one lakh across the nation. Currently, it has about 57,000 active Shakhas in the country. The plans were revealed by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat while addressing an event at Hyderabad last week. He also made a significant statement that the change in society was brought by the activists who were earning and married. He also indicated that the Sangh would take up tasks of water conservation and environment in the future. His statement goes against a general perception that Sangh Parivar usually consists of unmarried men, who dedicate their lives for the organization and its activities.  “We’ve taken up the task of complete transformation of Hindu society. We need to enhance the number of Shakhas at least to 1 lakh where committed Swayamsevaks are developed,” he said, while speaking at ‘Udyogi Swayamsevak’s Sanghik’. He also acknowledged that there was a phenomenal growth in the number of Shakhas last year. Though he didn’t specify the actual numbers, RSS functionaries told TOI that there was jump of over 4,500 last year in comparison to 2015. About 51,000 branches were operating in the country from over 33,000 locations in 2015, that increased to nearly 57,000 in 2016, spread across 37,000 locations, which is billed as highest growth since 1925. If data of last six years from 2010 was taken into the consideration, the growth was over 10,000. The RSS chief’s statement assumed added significance in wake of upcoming elections in five states, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, where large number of Sangh cadres are believed to have been working hard since last many years to help its ally BJP wrest power after long time. However, Nagpur Mahanagar Sanghachalak Rajesh Loya clarified that there wasn’t any connection of Bhagwat’s call to increase branches with that of UP or other polls. “We don’t contest elections, so absolutely no connection of our Shakhas with that. Currently, we have about 57,000 Shakhas, which we plan to expand in every locality of the country and one lakh is target. But, there is no specific time frame and it’s not even necessary that we would reach figure of one lakh. As said by him (Bhagwat), we want to add as many employed and married individuals as possible and expand our network, unlike common perception,” he told TOI. Endorsing him, national co-convener of RSS Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Virag Pachpore said RSS always wanted to build its base in the country and Bhagwat’s statement was in that regard. “We want more and more youths to join our cadre and work towards nation building. Unfortunately in India, the sense of patriotism is lacking in today’s youths and Sangh is working in this direction. You don’t need organization like Sangh in developed countries like the US, UK, France and Germany. The lessons of nation building should be inculcated since childhood, which RSS is doing,” he said. 