LONDON: Top-seeded   scripted a great escape on Court 2, known as the graveyard of champions, coming back from a set down and 2-4 in the second to beat the world No. 70   in just over 2 hours. The German, without a title this year, her No.1 ranking slipping away and under tremendous pressure, dug deep and discovered the fight within. 

 She ran and countered, found answers one more time every time. The 29-year-old, owner of the fastest wheels in the women's game, used her speed to bust Shelby's power in a contest that was as much a clash of styles as it was a stirring advertisement for the women's game.
 
 Kerber authored a 4-6, 7-6 (7-2), 6-4 win over Rogers, who she had beaten easily earlier in the year in Miami. Saturday's clash was as close as close can get with the top-seed winning a total pf 110 points in the match, only one more than her opponent. That was the difference between the two players. The American struck 48 winners and had 47 unforced errors, while Kerber had 14 unforced errors and 25 winners.
 
 Former world No. 1   came within two points of defeat against unseeded Estonian Anett Kontaveit before recovering to win 3-6, 7-6(3), 6-2. The Dane, seeded five, was getting overpowered as she trailed by a set and 3-5 but she hung on and turned the match around.
 
 The 2012   finalist Poland's  , who rallied to beat Swiss Timea Bacsinszky in another keenly fought contest on Centre Court before pulling off a 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 win to set up a fourth round meeting against Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia. Radwanska said that the competition in the women's game was keener than before.
 
 In other third round clashes, sixth-seeded Canadian Milos Raonic moved past Spaniard Albert Ramos-Vinolas 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, 7-5; 11th seed Tomas Berdych knocked out Spain's David Ferrer 6-3, 6-4, 6-3; 13th seed Grigor Dimitrov advanced when Israel's Dudi Sela retired after two sets. In an upset result, American Sam Querrey beat Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 6-2, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 1-6, 7-5. 
 
 Three-time champion Novak Djokovic reached the Wimbledon fourth round for the 10th time on Saturday with a 6-4, 6-1, 7-6 (72) win over Ernests Gulbis of Latvia. Second seed Djokovic will play France's Adrian Mannarino for a place in the quarter-finals Kerber's challenge, which at one time threatened to melt under the afternoon sun, picked up with an approach shot midway through (eighth game) the second set. She chased down a ball that looked to have got away from her, placing it for a winner before exploding into an animated celebration, fists pumping and shout that echoed through the grounds.
 
 After playing a strong tie-break, Kerber pipped Shelby in the decider. “It was important that I found the fire because without this I don't know if I would be in the next round right now,” Kerber said.
 
 
