Nagpur: In yet another junket involving waste of public money, Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) executing the Gorewada international zoo project has proposed a study tour of its officials to foreign countries. In the last 17 years, barring the rescue centre and a distorted safari, not a single zoo attraction has been in place at Gorewada even though officials have taken several foreign tours to ‘study’ zoos abroad. According to sources, FDCM managing director Umesh Agrawal sent a proposal to the state government on August 22, 2017, seeking permission to visit two foreign zoos (perhaps Europe). His letter to the government states these zoos have invited FDCM officials. Agrawal confirmed sending the proposal and said there was nothing wrong in it. “The tour depends on state permission,” he added. If it materializes, it will be third such tour by forest officials in the name of Gorewada. The outcome of such tours by spending lakhs of rupees of public money has been zero as far as development of the Gorewada is concerned in the last 17 years. A GR on Gorewada zoo was issued in December 2005. The first foreign tour to South Africa and Kenya by senior forest officials and then forest minister Babanrao Pachpute was organized in 2007. Another four-day tour was taken to Singapore by mantralaya officials and FDCM in June 2015 and now third trip has been proposed. Top sources said government has raised queries on FDCM MD’s proposal as copies of invitation from the two foreign zoos have not been submitted. Moreover, the government feels such invitations should come from the government there, which is not the case. Besides, copy of the proposal from the tour operator has also not been enclosed. Most shocking is that name of regional manager JP Tripathi has been included in the list of people going on tour. A departmental enquiry is pending against him and rules say tainted officials cannot be part of such tours. The government has also pointed out that in 2015, when then MD AK Nigam, chief general manager (CGM) RS Yadav and others visited Singapore for ‘study’ of zoo, FDCM did not pick any official actually responsible for implementation of the zoo in the team. “We have sought justification in this regard,” said officials. The 2015 tour turned out to be a wasteful exercise as Nigam retired less than a year later. Others who were part of the team were promoted and are now not concerned with Gorewada project. Government had sought clarification on above issues by September 4, 2017 from FDCM MD. Agrawal told TOI he would submit a reply to government queries soon. When pointed out earlier two tours did not yield any result, Agrawal said, “We are constructing African Safari which will have exotic animals. One needs to study about these species, their upkeep, cages and other related issues. Earlier, FDCM officials visited Singapore but that doesn’t mean present officers should not be exposed to realities.” IMP BOX NO ZOO ONLY PLEASURE TRIPS 2007: Ex-forest minister Babanrao Pachpute, principal secretary Neela Satyanarayan & PCCF (wildlife) B Majumdar, joint secretary Nitin Kakodkar and others visited Africa and Kenya. Barring Kakodkar, all have retired. Kakodkar’s knowledge is not being utilized for Gorewada.  2015: Forest secretary Vikas Kharge, FDCM MD AK Nigam, CGM RS Yadav, Dr N Rambabu and OSD in mantralaya Arvind Apte visited Singapore. Barring Kharge, others are not concerned with the zoo. Nigam has retired. 2017 (Plan): FDCM MD Umesh Agrawal & regional manager JP Tripathi. Names of others not known.