CHANDIGARH: To ensure  , residents called for a change in the administrative setup. After the division of Punjab, Chandigarh was made a Union Territory under Section 4 of the  , 1966, with effect from November 1, 1966. Since then, the administration has been functioning directly under the   (MHA).   is managed by   from three cadres AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, and Union Territories), Punjab, and Haryana.

 Under the present setup, UT finance secretary, who handles multiple departments, is also entrusted with the responsibility of secretary urban development. Advocate and social activist Ajay Jagga said there was need to have a separate secretary for urban development, preferably from Centre. “The current setup is overworked; there is a dire need to have a separate official for taking care of urban development,” said Jagga.
 
 At present, the administration has 9 IAS officers, including the adviser. Till March 2016, it had 18 officers, the highest in recent years.
 
 Social activist R K Garg said a mechanism had to be developed for keeping a check on functioning of officers. “The officers come and go; the system lacks accountability,” said Garg
 
 Residents demanded the formation of an urban development council. City-based industrialist Pankaj Khanna said governance was the biggest casualty in the present setup and required overhauling.
 
 The administration had set up both phases of Industrial Area on 147 acres in the 1970s. The plots in the two phases, numbering 1,884, are governed by controls. “The industrial area was part of Corbusier’s original design, but the city was deprived of an industrial policy till 2014. The administrative setup is whimsical in its approach,” said Khanna.
 
 Echoing similar sentiment, industrialist Arun Mahajan said the administration should fulfill all commitments made to industrialists.
 
 Prof Sangeeta Bagga of Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA) said it was beyond the capacity of the staff-crunched UT administration to handle urban development alone. She called upon academia of the city to assist the administration in finding solutions to help the city grow and, at the same time, preserve its character. “At present, the contribution of academia is negligible. Academia has to contribute,” said Bagga.
 
 Prof Rajiv Lochan of Panjab University said the varsity has collaborated with CCA to conduct everyday functioning of the city. “In next couple of years, we will be in a position to provide assistance to the administration for managing the city more efficiently,” stated Prof Lochan.
 
 
 
