HYDERABAD: Already synonymous with extreme summers, an international study has listed Hyderabad as among the 44 major cities in the world that are 'heat-stressed' zones, courtesy the rapid urbanisation and fast shrinking green spaces.

 The result is increasing cases of heat-related ailments among residents. As described in the study , conducted by a team of climatologists, heat stress is a situation wherein the human body experiences more heat than it can tolerate. The stress leads to illness, as the body fails to cool itself down, and is calculated by taking into account both air temperature and humidity .
 
 The study over a period of two years included eight Indian cities apart from Hyderabad.The findings were published in the US journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, on March 27.
 
 “Metro cities are categorised as   due to the lack of greenery , rise in population and urbanisation.Temperature at areas which are densely populated will be two-three degrees higher than the normal temperature prevailing across the city ,“ said  , project director, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (under the ministry of earth sciences). By that logic, the area around Charminar would possibly record a higher temperature than Secunderabad, Beig explained. But the entire city , researchers caution, is certain to feel the adverse impact of heat stress. According to them, even as the global average temperature is expected to rise by 1.5°C over time, Hyderabad will experience a rise of 2.7°C rise.
 
 Experts attribute this abnormal jump in temperatures to a host of local factors. “Summers have always been harsh in Hyderabad. But earlier, there were ways to cope with it as the city had abundant open space and green cover,“ said Anant Mariganti, executive director of  . he said, “The lack of data has made it difficult to track, analyse and determine the reasons behind heat stress across mega cities.Since heat patterns aren't recorded, deaths due to heat-related ailments are still not consi dered for compensation by many states.“
 
 The situation is only expected to worsen, the study warns, with spiralling heat stress levels. City meteorologists make similar predictions based on the number of `heatwave days' that are set to double this year.“While in 2016, there were 24 days that reported heatwave-like condition, the count is expected to increase this year with temperature already crossing the 40°C mark,“ said Y K Reddy , director of the IMD, Hyderabad.
 
