JAISALMER:   still believe that  , conducted 19 years ago, still exists in the village and continues to affect them as  , heart, skin disease are on the rise and   are unable to produce milk. 

 Three years back, BJP’s coming in power had raised hope among villagers but no BJP men from Centre as well as state came to take stock of their condition. The nuclear test spot is just 2.5 kms away from the village. In front of tourists, who come to see the spot, they feel proud of being local but at the same time, ill-effects of the risky test are clearly visible of their face.
 
 Village sarpanch Nathuram Vishnoi said people have doubt that diseases are spreading in humans and animal from nuclear radiation.
 
 He said nuclear tests were performed on May 11and 13, 1998 when BJP was in power at the Centre with Atal Bihari Vajpayee as the Prime Minister. Interestingly, BJP is in power at the Centre now and the villagers have high hopes on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But they are left disappointed with no visit by any BJP leader.
 
 Reminiscing the old days, Vishnoi said on the then Prime Minister Vajpayee on May 18, 1998 after visiting the nuclear testing sight was also to visit Khetolai. But, his schedule was changed for a meeting in Pokhran at last moment when the whole village assembled to hear Vajpayee for which they still regret.
 
 Sarpanch said Ketolai had many hopes from BJP government to dole out some package or other facilities for better healthcare of the villagers. But forget doctor, there is not even a single nurse in this village. In the name of compensation, few rupees were released for damaged houses only. 
 
 Another villager Mangilal Vishnoi said villagers are scared of radiation from nuclear tests even today. Although, scientists have refused spreading of radiation, but villagers could not emerge out of this apprehension.
 
 If there is no radiation, then government should tell the truth and provide all medical facilities for which villagers are ready to sacrifice anything, opined Vishnoi.
 
 An ex-teacher Babu Lal vishnoi said there is radiation on the grass which grows near the testing filed and cattle which graze on those grounds have become sick and calves born handicapped and blind.
 
 Another former teacher Dhana Ram said neither any big hospital has been opened nor any steps have been taken for villagers’ health check. The village is neglected from every sector.
 
 
