Panaji: Three unique megalithic era caves in Chicalim have been awaiting inclusion in the state heritage list for seven years, but a recent site visit of officials may trigger more interest in digging deeper into its geo-archaeological history. Labourers cutting a hill slope for laterite bricks at Naquelim accidentally found the unique underground cells in 1970s. The finding generated much interest and German indologist and art historian Gritli Mitterwalner on a visit to Goa inspected the site with officials of department of archives and archaeology (DAA) and two more rock cut caves and pot shards were discovered in these caves. A study of the pot sheds indicated that the pottery belonged to the megalithic period, sources said. A few days back, officials from DAA, Goa state biodiversity board (GSBB) and others visited the site after heritage lovers’ complaints of neglect of the site. GSBB officials found deposits of shells, including window pane oysters prominently featuring in several outcrops of the area.  “Whether these were deposits or discarded by men living in the area during those times is not known,” an official said. The shells can also be seen in ongoing road cutting sites as well as the cave area. “It would be interesting to ascertain the geological and archaeological history of this area and further understand if it has connections with eco-socio-cultural aspects of those times in the context of biodiversity and the local traditions,” Pradip Sarmokadam, member secretary, GSBB said. DAA had agreed in principle to declare the three caves as a protected monument after persistent lobbying by heritage lovers, but is yet to complete the process. “DAA had assured us in 2009 to notify the site as a protected monument,” Prajal Sakhardande, president, Goa heritage action group (GHAG) said. The department is now examining the neglected site facing threats of spreading construction activity in the context of the new findings. “We will consider taking experts to study the geo-archaeological aspect,” a DAA official said. The pottery found at the site has been showcased at the state museum at Patto. The caves have been cut into the ground unlike other caves and may have been used as burial chambers, archaeologists say. The deposits of shells might have something to do with the Chicalim bay, a rich breeding ground for shellfish. “The window pane oyster popularly known as ‘mendios’ and granted schedule IV status are found in the river,” Rui Araujo, a biodiversity management committee (BMC) member said.  Chicalim residents have been lobbying with the government to declare their village as a heritage village. “The caves, window pane oysters, the village church and other natural and architectural heritage makes it a suitable site,” says Cyril Fernandes, a social activist.