Hyderabad: To bring more people under the   net, especially in the informal sector, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has mooted a proposal of introducing ‘auto enrolment process’ last month to the government, PFRDA chairman Hemant Contractor said on Thursday here. Under the auto enrollment process, everybody is deemed to be a part of the pension scheme unless one opts out voluntarily.

 “Incentives have to be given, especially for the informal sector. Their income levels are low and it is a very heterogeneous sector…We have made a suggestion to the government of an auto enrolment process. Some countries like UK and New Zealand have tried this out successfully. When auto enrolment scheme is floated, everybody gets covered unless one chooses to opt out. We have proposed this to the government for certain sectors such as aanganwadi workers, Asha workers and gram panchayats as these groups are better organised compared to others in the informal sector,” Contractor said while speaking on the sidelines of an event organised by Karvy Computershare. 
 
 In India, only 15% of the workforce comes under the formal sector, while the rest works in the informal sector. He pointed out that while the government has provided tax sops for people making voluntary contribution to National Pension System (NPS - which is a voluntary contribution retirement savings scheme) only 4-5% of the population pays taxes, therefore these sops will not help in getting more people to join NPS. At present, NPS has 1.49 crore subscribers and a total corpus of Rs 168,000 crore. Contractor said that the number of subscribers is expected to grow at around 35% while the total corpus is expected to grow at 40% this fiscal. NPS is managed by seven fund managers appointed by PFRDA and the body expects to appoint two more fund managers in the near-term. These fund managers invest these funds, as per the approved investment guidelines, in to the diversified portfolios comprising of government bonds, bills, corporate debentures and equities. Currently, for government sector subscribers, upto 15% of the corpus can be invested into equities whereas in the case of subscribers belonging to the non-government sector, the equities component can go upto 50%. Contractor said that PFRDA has requested the government to allow higher equity investment even for the government sector subscribers as well.
 
 
