VASAI: From early morning, bikers zip through the lush green countryside leading to the coastal belt of  , barely 50km from Mumbai. They are not local   commuting but young couples, mainly college and school students from Mumbai and neighbouring towns, seeking rooms for their trysts.

 Known for traditional fishing communities and small farmers, the tranquil villages of Vasai have a thriving new business:   that have proliferated on a 4km stretch along the coast from Kalambh to Arnala. In local parlance, they are known as ‘Chaddar badlu’ (bed-sheet) lodges. The lodges, which call themselves resorts or farmhouses, are cheap. They are also  .
 
 TOI has learnt that about 100 of them have come up in blatant violation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms over the past decade. Most of them are three storey structures with small rooms.
 
 Four years ago, the local talathi identified 73 illegal resorts in Kalambh and ordered their demolition. Of these, 62 were built on government land. The talathi’s report said the total illegal constructions on government land was 84,827 sq ft. Another 20,225 sq ft was on private land. “The lodges don’t have construction permission or licences. The land on which they are built is marked for agriculture,” said Sameer Vartak, a local activist who has been leading the movement against lodge-owners.
 
 That fight has not been easy as the business involves virtually the entire local community, from auto-rickshaw drivers and village youth who act as agents, to politicians, gram panchayat members and some policemen. The business has been lucrative. With hourly rents as low as Rs250-300, the lodges are economical for collegians from Mumbai, where room rates are Rs1,500 in even cheap lodges. An average lodge could fetch over Rs 2 lakh a month for the owner.
 
 Protests against these lodges began in 2013 when a couple was found murdered in a room and the bodies were thrown in a desolate spot. The agitation forced revenue authorities to conduct a survey. Fearing strong resistance from villagers involved in the trade, the tehsildar sought 950 constables for the demolition. But local police have turned down the request from time-to-time. In the meantime, the resort owners got a stay from the local Vasai court. The authorities have since failed to vacate the order, said Vartak, even as more lodges are sprouting up. “Political pressure prevented the demolitions,’’ he alleged. Superintendent of police Manjunath Singe did not respond to phone calls and messages from TOI.
 
 In Kalambh village, resorts dot the entire landscape. But in neighbouring Rajodi, the lodges were shut down after locals protested. “We blocked the road and formed vigilante squads to stop outsiders,” said Marshal Rusario, a senior citizen.
 
 On weekends, villagers alleged the narrow road leading to the shore is jammed with bikers and rickshaw drivers transporting sex workers from the station. “School girls and sex workers used to frequent these places and middlemen would accost people, soliciting clients,” Rusario said, adding that many locals quit farming to set up these lodges.
 
 Fr Francis Britto, a Catholic priest and environmental activist from Vasai, said local police have failed to curb the business. “These are brothels in the guise of resorts,” he alleged, adding that the breakdown of social structures in this region was due to rapid urbanization over three decades. “The construction boom has led to an unnatural growth. The profile of this area has changed,” he said. Activists like him are also worried about the Mumbai Metropolitan Region’s new development plan for Vasai and surrounding areas, which, they said will lead to further urbanization in no-development zones, hazardous industries in green zone belts and multi-storey buildings around traditional gaothans.
 
