CHENNAI: Taking pointers from past experience, the   government has identified 4,399 vulnerable areas in various parts of the state, including Chennai, that are prone to floods during northeast monsoon based on data for several years. Vulnerability maps have been prepared at the firka level, with analysis of vulnerability, details of escape routes and relief centres for faster evacuation of the affected people by the district administration in time of crisis.

 The revenue and disaster management department zeroed in on 4,192 areas of vulnerability during last year. “These locations have been identified, marked and linked to the nearby relief centres for possible evacuation. The causes for inundation and any mitigation that needs to be taken up, has been done,” Revenue secretary B Chandra Mohan told TOI. Revenue minister R B Udhayakumar had a review meeting with officials on monsoon preparedness at the state control room in Ezhilagam. Images of inundated Chennai and   in the 2015 floods continue to haunt many.
 
 Tens of inter-departmental zonal teams have been set up for the vulnerable locations to take up mitigation measures drafted by the department. The composition of the teams includes personnel from police, fire service, rural development, agriculture and municipal administration departments. The teams carried out a recce. These teams have been instructed to submit report on the preparatory work taken up in the high vulnerable areas to the district-level multi-disciplinary coordination teams led by the district collectors. Senior bureaucrats will be deputed for each district to monitor the preparedness and coordination similar to last year, if necessary. 
 
 In a bid to ensure community participation in the rescue operations, the government has roped in 23,324 volunteers – first responders -- for each locality and imparted training by Red Cross, Fire and Rescue Services, Police and voluntary organizations. The skilled responders include 6,740 women, fishermen and youth. “These able-bodied men and women will guide us in the process of evacuation. Preparations have been an ongoing process and we have taken the historical data of the location of vulnerability,” Chandra Mohan said. Chief secretary   held a high-level meeting last week with line departments, including SDRF and   to take stock of preparedness and facilitate speedy movement of relief teams and material.
 
 “The district administration is equipped with vulnerability maps this time to do the needful as and when the crisis arises during heavy rain. Meticulous planning has been done this time. Blocks have been removed in canals and bridges to avoid flooding. Special emphasis is on removing silt in water bodies,” Udhayakumar told TOI. Under the state’s kudimaramath scheme, 4.43 crore cubic metre of silt has been removed from 23,132 water bodies and nutrient-rich silt given free of cost to 4.59 lakh farmers so far. The revenue department has notified 43,821 water bodies for desiliting exercise. 
 
