PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Access to Hinjewadi from   city is going to become easier, and faster, thanks to the planned two-storied flyover. It will be a boon especially for the residents of Chinchwad, Thergaon, Kalewadi etc. who work in IT parks in Hinjewadi. This flyover, being constructed by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), will be the city’s second multi-storied flyover. 

  in Thergaon is one of the busiest junctions in the city. It is located at the intersection of Sangvi-Kiwale bus rapid transit (BRT) road and Chinchwad-Hinjewadi road. The PCMC has already constructed two parallel flyovers on the Sangvi-Kiwale BRT road for private vehicles to cross the chowk without stopping at the signal. BRT buses pass through the chowk using the dedicated lanes between these flyovers. Moreover, there are service roads on both sides of the BRT road. However, there has been a long-felt need for a flyover on the Chinchwad-Hinjewadi road as well.
 
 Amit Jadhav, a Wakad resident, says, “Long queues of vehicles are seen on both sides of the Dange chowk on the Chinchwad-Hinjewadi road. Ideally, vehicles bound for Chinchwad and Wakad should not have to stop here. A flyover should be built for such vehicles.”
 
 Santosh Naik, a Chinchwad resident, agrees but adds that the flyover must have four lanes. “A four-lane flyover must be constructed at the Dange chowk for vehicles on the Chinchwad-Hinjewadi road. PCMC has already constructed a two-lane flyover at Chapekar chowk, but cars there cannot move fast.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, local BJP corporator Maya Barne said, “There is a need for a four-lane flyover at Dange chowk on Chinchwad-Hinjewadi road. This is because more people use this road when compared with those using the Sangvi-Kiwale BRT road service road.” When it was pointed out that encroachments too were causing congestion, Barne said, “There are encroachments on the service road that must be removed. However, that will reduce just a little of the congestion. A flyover is needed to effectively reduce congestion.”
 
 Meanwhile, the PCMC standing committee has okayed a short notice resolution to appoint a project management consultant for the construction of a two-storied flyover at Dange chowk. It mentions that there is a provision of Rs 10 crore for this project in the 2017-18 budget. Vijay Bhojane, the spokesperson of BRT cell, PCMC, said, “The resolution is a member’s proposal. The proposal was not tabled by the civic administration and therefore, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar’s permission is needed for its implementation.” 
 
 “The consultant will conduct a survey at the chowk. Whether to construct a two-lane flyover or one with four lanes will be decided after the survey”, said Bhojane. He also refused to give the time-frame in which the consultant, after appointment, will complete the work.
 
 
