Visakhapatnam: It is difficult to predict the weather for the next 100 years. But, a group of meteorologists in the port city are attempting to do just that. 

 The Union government’s department of science and technology has awarded a project called ‘Regional scale climate change assessment over India and their impact on agriculture over Andhra Pradesh’ to a team of meteorologists from Andhra University. 
 
 Prof SSVS Ramakrishna from the Andhra University department of meteorology and oceanography is the principal investigator of the project. The team would comprise two research associates and four junior research fellows. Work would officially start from April 1. The project, which is under the national mission on strategic knowledge for climate change, would be completed in the next three years.
 
 “In our study, we will hopefully be able to predict the arrival of monsoons, cyclones, rainfalls, hot weather conditions, cold weather conditions among other features which mostly make an impact on the common man, particularly farmers,” Ramakrishna told TOI.
 
 The government has sanctioned Rs 1.762 crore for the project. The funds would come in three tranches. The government would sanction Rs 1.05 crore in the first year, Rs 35.72 lakh in the second year and Rs 34.82 lakh in the third year. 
 
 Findings of the project would help farmers choose the right crop every year and take precautionary steps like ensuring sufficient water supply. 
 
 Major stakeholders of the project would be the Union agriculture department and India Meteorological Department. They would conduct training programmes, provide data on climate change in the last two to three decades and draw inferences for the project. 
 
 Nearly Rs 78 lakh would staff remuneration and Rs 4.5 lakh has been earmarked for travelling. 
 
 Andhra University department of meteorology and oceanography is the first in southeast Asia and fourth in the world to have initiated teaching and research programmes in these two subjects. 
 
 
