COIMBATORE: A year after she and her husband were brutally attacked by a gang for marrying outside the caste, resulting in his death,   is determined to get on with her life and has charted out her mission. She says she has realised her husband Shankar’s dream of building a concrete house, is educating his brothers and fighting to abolish the caste system. 

 On March 13, 2016, 22-year-old Shankar, a dalit, and Kowsalya were on a shopping trip to Udumalpet in Tirupur district when they were waylaid by a five-member gang who murdered Shankar in broad daylight. Kowsalya suffered grievous injuries to the head. The attack was recorded on a   camera and the video clip went viral on social media, sparking outrage. Kowsalya’s parents and the gang members who were sent to attack the couple have since been arrested. Kowsalya, who could not come out of the trauma after she was discharged from hospital, attempted suicide at her husband’s house on May 12, 2016.
 
 Since then, Kowsalya has picked up the pieces of her life. She now works as a revenue assistant with the ministry of defence. “After we got married, we lived in a hut that Shankar owned at Kumaralingam village. He often told me that he would build a concrete house for me. That was his dream But he was brutally murdered. After my husband’s death, I fulfilled his dream,” she said. She has built a house at a cost of Rs 10lakh. 
 
 “My husband was keen that his brothers got an education. His younger brother V Vigneswaran, 19, is doing his final year BSC (computer science) and another brother V Yuvaraj, 17, is writing his Plus Two exams. I have started saving money for their higher studies,” said Kowsalya.
 
 “I worked hard to get a government job. I was relieved when I got the job from the ministry of defence last November. Initially, my colleagues kept their distance from me thinking they would be harmed if they had any contact with me. Over time things have improved,” said Kowsalya. Her greatest ambition is to abolish the caste system. She will fight against it till her last breath, she said.
 
 “I am doing BSc (computer science) through correspondence in   and I want pursue a Master of Social Work course after this,” said Kowsalya.
 
 A Kathir, executive director of Evidence, an NGO, also paid homage to Shankar. He told TOI that Kowsalya trusts the   and is confident that the guilty will be severely punished. The state government had given a meagre amount as compensation to Shankar’s family as per the SC/ST act. It is yet to provide the remaining compensation amount to the family. “The government should help Kowsalya pursue higher education,” he added.
 
