NAGPUR: It is an obvious thing that the   (NMC) elections are going to be prestigious for chief minister   and union minister for road transport and highways Nitin   despite their responsibility for entire state and nation. However, slew of projects planned by the two leaders not likely to make any big effect in the elections especially when it comes for BJP.

 Even, elections in South-West constituency will be prestigious for the CM as he represents the constituency. Not for Gadkari, but elections of all municipal corporations in the state are very important for Fadnavis as he is at the helm of BJP-Sena government in the state.
 
 Also, it will be crucial for Fadnavis and Gadkari to bring back BJP into rule at the NMC for implementing developmental projects of the centre and state. Civic body plays major role in giving permissions or executing the projects approved by the centre and state.
 
 Even, the political leaders of other parties too believe that NMC elections are prestigious for Fadnavis and Gadkari. But they deny projects planned by the two BJP bigwigs will result as an advantage to BJP.
 
 Replying to the same question in TOI debate, 10 participants, who are voters, said that people vote seeing the candidates, past experience and expectations from civic body.
 
 As from BJP, deputy mayor Satish Holey told TOI that elections are prestigious for the two leaders and also their works will benefit BJP to come back into power at the NMC. “Many from the city became union ministers in the past. City witnessed large number of projects since Gadkari is in the centre. People also have much expectation from Gadkari. Similarly, Fadnavis is the first from the city to become CM and people expecting a Smart and World class city from him,” he said.
 
 Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe said that the two leaders are just executing projects planned by the Congress government. “Metro rail, 24X7 water supply, sewage treatment, starbus etc were sanctioned by UPA government. Smart City is only a propaganda as NMC to get only Rs100 crore under the project. UPA government had given Rs5,000 crore under JNNURM in last seven years. Congress in the state issued notification to give ownership rights to slums that came up till the year 2002 but Fadnavis revised to 1995. Cement roads are not the only requirement of citizens,” he said.
 
 Shiv Sena city president   said BJP will have slight advantage in elections with two leaders due to ward with four corporators. “It would have made nil impact if ward with one corporator. Fadnavis and Gadkari have expedited projects but at the same failed to plan works as per citizens’ convenience. Citizens are facing immense problems on roads due to blocks etc,” he said.
 
 MNS city vice-president Prashant Pawar said people vote on experience of civic services that they received in the past. “Majority of areas are not getting water supply and facing high water bills. Citizens are already in fear of high property tax that they will be facing after elections as approved by BJP in the NMC. There is lack of parking space in the city. Condition of city buses are very poor. And all knew works of cement roads etc started on the face of election and nothing was done by the NMC in last five years,” he said.
 
 
