MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the   on Thursday directed the central and state governments to respond to a   highlighting   in  .

 K K C Balaganesan of Sivakasi filed a public interest litigation seeking direction to the Union cabinet secretary, secretaries of finance and agriculture and farmers' welfare ministries to declare Tamil Nadu as drought-hit state and provide Rs20, 000crore as drought relief. The petitioner wanted Rs50,000 to be paid to farmers as relief for one acre of crop loss. He also sought Rs30lakh compensation to each family that had lost a farmer to suicide.
 
 The division bench headed by Justice A Selvam heard the case.
 
 The petitioner said before 1991, the year the Central government introduced new economic policy of privatisation, liberalisation and globalisation, the administrators concentrated on agriculture, related activities and farmers. After the introduction of the new economic policy, all department heads were keen only on inviting foreign investments to industrial sector and facilitated round the clock power supply, good road infrastructure, water supply and tax exemption. Several agricultural lands were acquired for this purpose.
 
 The country's population has now increased to 127 crore from 100 crore in 2000. But, the gross agriculture production has not increased due to continuous monsoon failure and the failure of the Centre and state to focus on agriculture. Besides, the government failed to note that about 90 % of SCs and STs fully depend on agricultural works, the petitioner said. 
 
 Felling of trees for development has also led to  , which has impacted rainfall and farming activities. Besides, the Centre's demonetisation move has added to farmers' woes, as they are unable to rotate money by pledging their belongings, the PIL said.
 
 Given the present situation, the Centre and state should have taken measures to protect farmers. Their inaction has led to the deaths of 90 farmers. Thus, the PIL sought direction from the court to ensure both governments come to the aid of farmers.
 
 The court sought a reply from the governments and adjourned the case to February 8. 
 
