NEW DELHI: She was the poster child for a human rights organisation. But she lived in a shack fabricated out of discarded plywood under the Nehru Place flyover, her parents too poor to afford any better. For toys, she had empty plastic water bottles that her rag-picker father brought home to sell to scrap dealers. As her playing ground, she had the traffic intersection. On Monday, a day before the National Girl Child Day, Lakshmi was crushed under the wheels of a school bus, underlining all the risks of a childhood on the streets. 

 The three-year-old had been playing with her plastic bottle when it rolled towards the road. Unmindful of the traffic, she ran after the toy and into the path of the approaching bus. Her family had left their home in Rajasthan's Ajmer district with the dream of better future in the capital. Instead, the family lost both its children on the streets, Lakshmi's elder brother, Teju, having succumbed to pneumonia below this very flyover some years ago.
 
 On Tuesday , soon after some of Lakshmi's friends -- another 40 kids like her call the flyover a home -returned following the last rites at Bhairon Mandir near Pragati Maidan, they went back to selling seasonal wares on the busy road, this week the national flag in preparation for Republic Day. With no homes, no incomes, no schooling and little official inclination to change their lives, the children, like Lakshmi, flirt with mortal danger every minute of their lives.
 
 All that remains of Lakshmi is a poster that shows the little girl, dishevelled hair, innocent eyed, sipping milk from a plastic cup. “Lakshmi was a beautiful child. See even the NGO people selected her glowing face for their poster,” said a sobbing Gyarsi, her grandmother. The poster was brought out by Centre for Holistic Development for its programme to distribute milk to impoverished children.
 
 Sadly , like other tots across the city, Lakshmi too was preparing for pre-school education from February. “We wanted to give Lakshmi an education so she would not end up suffering through life like we have,” said Kedari, the girl's aunt. A teacher-volunteer, Pooja, used to come in the evening to teach the kids and she was keen to see Lakshmi start on her ABCs. “Parents who sometimes force the children to beg or sell on the streets are to be blamed as much as the bus drivers,” said Pooja, who witnessed the traumatic incident.
 
 Born in Kalyanpura in Rajasthan's Ajmer at her maternal grandparent's home, Lakshmi had arrived in Delhi as an eight-month-old baby . Her parents, Mukesh and Sharda, had come to Delhi three years earlier. Mukesh worked irregularly as a labourer and spent most days salvaging recyclable stuff from garbage, making a measly Rs 6,000 a month. Sharda, weak and tubercular, sold balloons, flowers and Tricolours at the traffic signal.
 
 The family was to have left for Kalyanpura in the next few weeks after a round of treatment for Sharda. “Now we will leave without our dearest possession,” said Mukesh. The inconsolable mother held Lakshmi's pink blanket close to her chest and wept, “It is my fault.We would have left this place, but had to stay on for my medical treatment."
 
 Among Lakshmi's 200 neighbours at the flyover are 40 other children, constantly exposed, like her, to the dangers of an open street. While the older ones venture out to sell knick-knacks to commuters, the young ones keep themselves busy near their shacks. Many of the people have ancestral homes in Rajasthan and keep returning, only to be driven back to Delhi by the lack of financial opportunities back home. In a defeated tone, Sukhlal, Mukesh's elder brother who arrived from Ajmer after hearing of Lakshmi's death, said, “Our father also worked in Delhi. Mukesh himself spent his childhood working at tea stalls here. It takes several generations to wash off the curse of poverty.”
 
 Poverty means the children have no homes. There are two tented night shelters at Nehru Place that can accommodate around 40 people, but the requirement is for at least five times that number. Yet even these shelters are no guarantee of safety. As Jitender Gupta, founder of Centre for Holistic Development, said, “There have been similar accidents near night shelters across the city . We have been campaigning for a permanent solution to the problem. Instead of temporary tents, people should be placed in permanent houses. At least the kids should be protected.”
 
 On Tuesday afternoon, the heart-broken parents conducted the last rites of their only girl child, comforted by family members, their fellow flyover inhabitants and some of Lakshmi's friends. Some had brought marigold flowers, others batashe (sugar drops). Soon after, all of them wiped their tears and returned to their ‘normal lives’ on the risky streets of an uncaring city.
 
