PUNE: The state government on Thursday facilitated the dream of many citizens to own a home in the city by granting more   (FSI) in the   (DC) rules for  .

 Some localities, like the   (TOD) zones along the Pune metro corridor and the   (BRTS), that are high population density areas will now have an FSI of 4.
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said the new DC rules open the doors for the comprehensive development of the city and will cater to the housing needs of citizens.
 
 “The rules are progressive as they strike the best balance between development, environment, business and heritage. They mark a new be ginning,“ the commissioner told TOI.
 
 “More small flats will come up because of various FSI proposals, including premium FSI, for the transit corridor. It will control realty prices in the city,“ city engineer Prashant Waghmre said. In the next 20 years, the city will need about six lakh houses of which three lakh will accommodate slum dwellers while the rest will be required for non-slum population, city engineer Prashant Waghmare said.
 
 The city will witness planned development as the state government on Thursday approved one set of development control rules in the old and new city areas to check haphazard growth.
 
 Waghmare said the new FSI will allow for the creation of tenements between 25 sqm (about 270 sq ft) and 120 sqm (about 1,290 sq ft) of built-up area in the transit-oriented development (TOD) zones.
 
 Commercial and residential properties may be permissible on residential plots in the TOD zones if the road is 12m wide. Large wholesale stores, car dealers' showrooms, warehouses, storages, auto service centres and garages will not be allowed in the TOD zones, Waghmare said.
 
 FSI is the ratio of the total covered area of construction to the total plot size. If the FSI is 1 and the total plot area is 2,000 sq ft, the maximum area of the building cannot be more than 2,000 sq ft. FSI may be available for payment of premium charges as per prescribed rules.
 
 “The new DC rules will boost construction projects. We hope that starting from this year the number of constructions will rise.
 
 “Such development will not put any pressure on the basic infrastructure as the civic body will use the premium amount collected from developers for civic amenities,“ Waghmare told reporters on Thursday .
 
 The new DC rules will make Pune a well-planned metro, Shantilal Kataria, Credai Pune Metro chairman said. “It will generate employment and increase housing stock. It will boost the housing sector and help the real estate market,“ Kataria added The rules allows small businesses in residential zones with extra FSI which will provide jobs. “ The PMC will have to use 50% of the premium it gets from builders to develop civic amenities which will take care of the city's infrastructural needs, “ Kataria added. The government was quiet about the construction permissions in biodiversity parks, hilltops and slopes.
 
 IT sector
 
 A maximum of 3 FSI is al lowed to develop IT parks and additional FSI could be used by paying a premium to the civic body. IT parks developed on two hectares or less will not have to keep amenity space. A penalty equal to 0.3 % of the prevailing ready reckoner value of the built-up area will have to be paid if the place reserved for IT is used of non-IT purpose.
 
 Govt housing
 
 The new DCR has proposed up to 4 FSI in the place of earlier 1FSI to develop and redevelop housing for the state government and civic employees. The move will benefit development of residential quarters for civic and employees including police who are facing major problems due to insufficient housing.
 
 High rises
 
 City engineer Prashant Waghmare said the state go vernment has removed restrictions on high rises. “The 100m height restriction for the buildings has already been removed. However, developers who are into high rises above 70m will have to approach the high rise committee for permission,“ he added.
 
 Flood line construction The area between the ri ver bank and the blue flood line (towards the river bank) shall be prohibited zone for any construction except parking, open vegetable markets, gardens, lawns, open space, cremation and burial grounds and public toilets. Redevelopment of existing properties within river bank and blue flood line may be permitted with certain rules and regulations.
 
 Congested zones
 
 Minimum FSI of 1.50 has been allotted for development in congested areas where road width is 9m while a maximum 3 FSI will be allowed for development where the road width is 30m and above. In noncongested areas 1.10 FSI will be permitted. “It is possible that some congested areas in the mid-city will get high-rise buildings where the road width is more. As of now, only 1FSI is used in non-congested areas,“ Waghmare said.
 
 Wada development
 
 All certified tenants of the building shall be re-ac old building shall be re-accommodated in redeveloped buildings. The DC rules state,“ Each tenant shall be rehabilitated and given free of cost the carpet area occupied by him for residential purpose in old building subject to maximum carpet area up to 27.87 sqm or existing carpet area whichever is more subject to maximum carpet area up to 70 sqm. The tenants who have non-residential areas in old building will get similar area in the redeveloped building.“
 
 The rules do not mention cluster development of wadas.
 
 Solid waste
 
 Solid waste management will be compulsory for housing complexes, commercial establishments, hostels and hospitals with an aggregate built-up area of more than 4,000 sqm or more. All threestar or higher category hotels will have to treat 100% wet waste they generate
 
