HYDERABAD: Srinivas Kuchibhotla’s killing in Oathe in a racial   on February 22 led to many organisations to hold a vigil on the steps of   denouncing hate crimes.  , an aviation engineer for Garmin hailing from Hyderabad was shot dead by a white man Adam W Purinton at Austin’s Bar and Grill.

 South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), a national South Asian civil rights organization, and partner organizations held the vigil which was attended by some members of the Congress too on March 10 in Washington DC.
 
 The vigil was organised also to honor the victims of hate violence in South Asian, Sikh, Muslim, Hindu, and Arab communities in the US.
 
 Rajdeep Singh Jolly, Interim Managing Director of Programs, Sikh Coalition who spoke at the vigil said: “As we remember   and all those who have lost their lives and loved ones to hate, we demand that the White House create a federal task force to prevent hate violence. Words are not enough. We need accountability and action.”
 
 SAALT executive director Suman Raghunathan said, “We need real leadership from Washington to stem the tide of injustice.” said Suman Raghunathan, executive director of SAALT.
 
 “Waiting nearly a week before commenting on a deadly shooting in Kansas won’t do it,” she said referring to President Donald Trump’s late reaction to the killing of Srinivas Kuchibhotla.
 
 It was pointed out that in recent weeks three Indian men and one Sikh man, either perceived as Muslim or as a result of anti-immigrant sentiment, were shot, with two of the victims ultimately dying of their injuries. In two of the cases the assailants screamed at their victims to leave the U.S. and go back to their countries before opening fire.
 
 Members of Congress who joined the vigil included Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA), Congressman Joe Crowley (D-NY), and Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA). Partner organizations of SAALT which participated included American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC), Arab American Institute (AAI), Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), Desis Rising Up & Moving (DRUM), Indiaspora, MPowerChange, National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA), National Network For Arab American Communities (NNAAC), Sikh American Legal Defense & Education Fund (SALDEF), and Sikh Coalition.
 
 Speaking at the vigil, Congressman Joe Crowley (D-NY) said: “The attack in Kansas did send a shiver down my spine, because I know that this is something that unfortunately has developed because of hate rhetoric and hate speech that developed during the campaign and has continued afterwards.”
 
 Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) said, “One of the messages I want to send to people who are out there listening is that America is your country, you belong here, and we will stand up to protect your rights.”
 
 Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) who spoke at the vigil described the attacks as disturbing. “ Attacking someone based on where they come from or what they look like insults the very core of everything that we stand for as a nation of immigrants,” he said.
 
 Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA) said the US must stand together against hateful words and actions, and prosecute any hate crimes to the full extent of the law.
 
 
 
 
 
