Nagpur: In a major boost to mass transit system of the city, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to build an integrated bus, rail and Metro station in Congress Nagar. As Nagpur Metro will link the city airport to the station, it will have air connectivity in effect. The cost of the project, known as inter-modal station (IMS), is around Rs1,600 crore, and it will be spread over 445 acres. The consultant for preparing the detailed project report (DPR) will be appointed by the end of this month. The pre-feasibility study has found IMS to be viable. IMS is being constructed only in two cities of the country — Nagpur and Varanasi. The Orange City has been chosen due to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari while Varanasi is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency. Nagpur IMS is being built with an eye on future. NHAI envisages that 3.5 lakh people will use the facility by 2050. NHAI regional officer M Chandrashekhar said Ajni railway station would be modernized, a bus terminal having 400 bays would be constructed and Mahametro’s Congress Nagar station would be integrated into the structure. “We will also build a huge multi-level underground parking with a capacity of 3,600 cars. A large number of spacious waiting rooms will be constructed. A private party will build hotels (budget as well as high-end), commercial complexes, food court, etc at the station,” he added. NHAI plans to acquire land belonging to Ajni railway colony, medical staff colony and Central Jail for the project. As the state government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too would be part of the project, land acquisition will not be a problem. Even if the entire land is not available, the project won’t get stuck because minimum requirement is only 60 acres. “A special purpose vehicle (SPV) with representation of NHAI, ministry of railways, Mahametro, state government entities like PWD, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and Nagpur’s civic bodies will be formed for executing the project. While the private partner will invest Rs450 crore, the SPV will avail a loan of around Rs1,100 crore from World Bank for the project,” Chandrashekhar said. The regional officer further said that IMS would generate direct employment of 3,000 and an indirect employment of 7,000. “It will benefit not only Nagpur but also nearby cities like Amravati and Akola,” he added. As per the basic plan, the number of platforms at Ajni station will be increased from 4 to 6. As most of the trains that stop at Nagpur station pass through Ajni, the ministry of railways will be urged to shift the scheduled halt to Ajni. MSRTC and NMC would be asked to start a large number of buses from IMS. On the future steps for the project, Chandrashekhar said, “We will first tie up the required land. Then the DPR will be submitted to the department of economic affairs and Union ministry of finance for World Bank funding. The government will next identify the nodal officers in Indian Railways, NHAI and other agencies concerned.” Aware of the fact that a large number of skilled workers will be required for the project, the Union ministry of road transport and highways has signed a memorandum of understanding with the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship for imparting required training to youths.