Nagpur: Faulty traffic signals at several intersections in the city pose a serious threat to motorists. As many as 66 out of 145 traffic signals are not functioning. Team TOI interacted with most of the policemen deployed at differed junctions and they blamed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for the faulty traffic signals. They said the civic body failed to act on their complaints. According to the data, 20 traffic signals are not functioning under the jurisdiction of chamber II (city traffic police), 14 signals are defunct in Chamber III and 13 signals are not working in chamber I. As a result, there are frequent traffic jams on most of the roads. Sometimes it also leads to quarrels.  On Friday, there was severe traffic congestion on Wardha Road, especially at Rahate Colony T-point. “Motorists moving from Sitabuldi to Ajni have to cross the Rahate traffic signal. Most of the times signals do not work or they keep flashing multiple colours. It causes a lot of confusion. Some motorists also jump the light in the absence of adequate police personnel,” a miffed Mehul Gotmare said. Shekhar Majumdar, a resident of Wadi, said, “I dive from Amravati Road to Sitabuldi. The signals at the two intersections on this stretch are faulty. In the evening, I have to drive slowly to avoid accidents.” “Absence of traffic police at intersections where signals are not functioning or are covered by tree branches,adds to the problem, especially in the view of metro rail work and cement concretization of roads,” said Pankaj Tidke, a resident of Narendra Nagar.  “A large number of signals, at important intersections, are often out of order,” added another motorists Prakash Bhalerao citing example of traffic signal at Geetanjali Talkies Chowk, which is defunct for past many years. We spotted as many as six faulty traffic signals on Central Avenue, including the signals at Darodkar Chowk, Telephone Exchange Chowk, Sarda Chowk among several others. According to motorists, many traffic signals at intersections of south, east and north Nagpur, including Jagnade Chowk, Dhantoli Undebridge, Gittikhadan Chowk, Gorewada Chowk, Kharbi Chowk, Wathoda Chowk etc are defunct. Most of these roads have a very high volume of traffic during peak hours. Executive engineer (NMC’s electric department) Sanjay Jaiswal said that cable of many junctions were damaged because of the ongoing concretization of roads and metro rail work. They would be repaired soon. He further said that as many as 19 junctions need to be renovated and they would soon be replaced with LED signals. 