NASHIK: A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by the employer of her mother on Wednesday.

 The   station booked the 51-year-old accused on Thursday morning under provision of   from Sexual Offenses (POCSO) Act and arrested him.
 
 The victim has been admitted to   where she is undergoing treatment. The accused has also been admitted to the civil hospital after local residents thrashed him before handing him over to the police.
 
 “It was a   committed by the accused. The police have gathered all the technical information required to nail the accused and the medical examinations and other reports are also being gathered,” commissioner of police Ravinder Singal said.
 
 According to the police, the accused runs a small farsan-producing unit on the outskirts of the city. The victim’s mother was employed at this unit.
 
 According to the police, the accused would always treat the child specially and on Wednesday evening he offered to take the child to buy her an ice-cream. Since the employer was known to the people around, nobody cast any doubt on him.
 
 “After more than an hour, the accused dropped the child at 8.00 pm at his firm. The child was not behaving normal and looked scared. She rushed the child home and sought to know what happened,” said a police officer.
 
 “The mother learnt that the child was sexually abused and her private parts bore injury marks. She quickly came to the firm and asked the employer about what had happened to her child,” he added.
 
 The child was then taken to NMC’s Bytco Hospital where the doctors were shocked to find that the victim was sexually abused. “They informed the parents about what may have happened given the wounds and the trauma the child faced,” added the police officer.
 
 Meanwhile, the accused had fled the scene and this was noticed by some of the villagers who accompanied the parents to the hospital. They quickly followed him and caught him at   and roughed him up. The police came in and took the accused to the police station. 
 
