KOLKATA: Ten persons were injured when an out-of-control car headed towards the   from   apparently lost control and committed a series of accidents, before coming to a stop after colliding with a stationary bus on Tuesday morning. The driver of the car — who later claimed the brakes were malfunctioning — hit two  , a van driver, a biker, two pedestrians and an auto on a one-way slip bridge before colliding with the bus at the Hudco crossing. 

 At least two of the injured are in a serious condition.
 
 Witnesses said Dum Dum residents Dilip Kumar Saha and his wife Supriya were headed to office in Manicktala (Dilip is deputy director of the Geological Survey of India, Mangalore, and Supriya is an upper-division clerk at the Manicktala ESI hospital) around 10.30am in their sedan car, when the driver hit 53-year-old cyclist Shyamsundar Ghosh— riding the wrong way — who was headed to office at Salt Lake’s AB Block. Local residents gave chase, but driver Sufal Mondal, according to witnesses, stepped on the gas in a bid to escape. In doing so, he hit van driver Tarak Ghoshal.
 
 By this time, the locals who were chasing the car started throwing bricks and bamboo sticks at the car, in a bid to stop it. 
 
 “I tried to hit the brakes but they did not work, and the car hit a cyclist and a van driver. Before I could slow down, local residents began chasing us. Then, I tried to flee but hit more people in the attempt,” said an injured Mondal from hospital, where he is admitted with other occupants of the car.
 
 “The car did not stop after hitting the two. We ran after it but it sped away,” said Monika Dhali, who runs a street-side shop. “We tried to stop the car but it fled and hit more people. Some of us threw stones at the car in a bid to stop it,” said a local, unwilling to be named. The car then hit pedestrians Asit Sarkar (33) and his colleague Sadhan Roy, both contractual bank employees. It then hit a biker and another cyclist, Jayanta Bagui, before hitting a stationary auto right before the road bends left towards  . Anita Mukherjee, who was in the three-wheeler, was flung off as the car continued to speed towards Ultadanga, taking the opposite lane. It finally stopped after hitting the stationary bus.
 
 A witness alleged that initially no one came forward to help the victims. “The cyclist on the bridge was badly injured. We took him to hospital, over two kilometres away, in a van,” said local resident Subhas Das.
 
 The car occupants suffered multiple injuries. Dilip (59) sustained multiple fractures on his hip and left leg and Supriya (53) suffered injuries in her head, neck and left eye. “Doctors said both of them will have to undergo surgery,” said Anup, Dilip’s brother. Mondal — who is not their regular driver, but engaged from a drivers’ agency — is also in hospital, and will be arrested the moment he is declared fit. A police officer said they will verify his claims and check the condition of the car’s brakes.
 
 The condition of Ghosh and Bagui, admitted at NRS Hospital and a private hospital off the Bypass respectively, was critical at the time of going to press.
 
 
