Vadodara: It was a one of its kind case that the 181 Abhayam helpline for women faced in the city. A young woman had come complaining to the helpline that her husband was gay and had an affair with another man.

 The incident was reported to the helpline on Tuesday after the woman spoke to the boyfriend of her husband who spilled the beans. The woman has now left for her native place along with her parents and will initiate legal proceedings against her husband.
 
 Officials at Abhayam said that the couple was married about three months back. The husband Rikesh (name changed) used to work with a bank in the city. The woman Nikita (name changed) used to work as a teacher before her marriage. Nikita told Abhayam personnel that Rikesh used to lace her glass of milk with a sedative every night and put her to sleep. While she was sleeping, Rikesh’s boyfriend used to visit their residence.
 
 According to an Abhayam official, Nikita had become suspicious of her falling asleep soon after consuming the milk. “One day she interchanged the glass and fed the milk with the sedative to her husband. Her husband fell asleep while she remained awake,” said the official.
 
 Nikita caught her husband’s love interest entering their house and questioned him on the same night. The man confessed to Nikita about his relationship with her Rikesh.
 
 According to officials, the couple could not consummate their marriage and Nikita had informed Rikesh’s family regarding this. But instead of dealing with the situation, the family used to put pressure on Nikita and troubled her for petty reasons.
 
 After meeting her husband’s boyfriend, Nikita confided with a lady in their neighbourhood. The lady suggested that she should approach the Abhayam helpline. When the volunteer discussed the issue with Rikesh, he was open to accepting whatever decision Nikita took and did not discuss the issue further.
 
 Sylvester Merchant from the Lakshya Trust that deals with LGBT issues said that the root cause of such problems was the fact that the society never discussed sex and sexuality. “Due to the traditional mind set, the girls and boys are never told about these things,” he said.
 
 Merchant added that the pressure to get married to someone from the opposite sex was such that many had to give in to it. “Why alone homosexuals? There are even straight persons who do not want to get married,” he said.
 
 
