AJMER: Senior Secondary Board and   examinations of   (RBSE) will start from Thursday and will continue till March 25 while   will kick off from March 9.

 The board announced 99 examination centres in which 65 are put under sensitive and 34 centres are extra sensitive categories and for that purpose CCTV cameras have been installed at every examination centre. “No one will be spared who spread rumour related to examination,” said BL Choudhary, chairman of the board adding that control room in the board premises will be active since early morning specially to control any rumour.
 
 First time, RBSE has introduced an App for the staff conducting examination including flying squad to invigilators to understand the subject and process of conducting examination. There are 19.80 lakh students registered for board examination from state in which 8.69 lakh students are appearing for senior secondary (XII) among which 5.86 lakh appearing from humanities stream, 48,113 for commerce stream and 2.34 lakh for science stream whereas 10.9 lakh students will be appearing in senior secondary board examination and remaining are for Upadhyaya and Pravishika examination. This year, 11.9 lakh students are registered for Class VIII board examination throughout the state.
 
 Board officials said officials who are involved in examination process have been directed to remain vigilant and warned for a strict action against them in case of any negligence. “They can download the App launched by RBSE on mobile and will get information about the examination,” added Choudhary.
 
 He said apart from police force, home guards have been deputed in examination centres and strict vigilance is also being kept. All internet cafes, hostels and photocopy shops near examination centres will remain close during examination time. “Any rumour will be taken strictly,” added board secretary Meghna Choudhary.
 
 She said total 5,398 centres have been made for this examination and this time, 88 new centres have been added in various districts. Question papers of 4,556 centers have been kept in police stations and papers for 329 centres are kept in police chowkis near the examination centres while 133 question papers are kept in nodal school centers and other lot of 133 question papers for centres in Jalore district are kept in police lines and papers of 323 centres are kept in the center school with 24 hours security.
 
 Jodhpur, Badmer, Swai Madhopur, Sikar, Nagaur, Jhunjhunu, Dausa and Karoli have been marked as sensitive districts and full videography of examination process has been arranged there. Board has already opened control room that running from 6am till midnight every day and people have been appealed to inform any information related to examination to control room immediately. There will also be a district control room in every district education office.
 
 Security of question paper is the priority of the board and hence it is deputing 4,500 extra police forces in district collection centres. On the last day of preparation, RBSE has again asked officials to remain conscious while opening the question paper as there were cases of wrong distribution of question papers in past.
 
 
