Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday refused to vacate an interim injunction that restrained the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) from procuring masoor dal. It also directed the principal secretary of the state’s co-operation, food and consumer protection department to file a counter to the case filed against procurement of   and adjourned the case to August 28. 

 The department on March 6 last passed a government order giving effect to various tasks including permitting the TNCSC to procure masoor dal to supply it to fair price shops (ration shops). Acting on it, former deputy director of animal husbandry Aasthi Jaganatha filed a public interest litigation (PIL). The court gave an interim injunction on July 10. 
 
 On Wednesday, when the PIL came up for hearing before the division bench headed by justice KK Sasidharan, the petitioner pointed out that masoor dal was used in government’s noon meal scheme in schools and noon meal centres decades ago. As it was alleged that the dal was harmful to human beings, Karur district collector took steps and found that toxin was present in it. 
 
 The collector requested the government to stop the supply of masoor dal to the noon meal programme. The social welfare department on March 1, 2007 passed a government order prohibiting its supply to noon meal programmes.
 
 However, the co-operation, food and consumer protection department on March 6 passed a government order enabling the TNCSC to procure masoor dal to supply it to the fair price shops, the petitioner said.
 
 The government submitted the counter filed by managing director of TNCSC, K Gopal. In that, he justified his procurement by saying that masoor dal is not harmful to mankind. Also, some people who applied for taking tender to procure masoor dal wanted them to be added as parties in the case. 
 
 The petitioner said that the principal secretary of cooperation, food and consumer protection was supposed to file a counter. Following this, the court dismissed the pleas of private people who wanted to be impleaded in the case by saying that they had no locus standi to file such pleas and directed the principal secretary to file a counter.
 
 The court adjourned the case to August 28.
 
 
