KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Friday put a stay order on the state government’s plea to block the   page of a news organization after the social networking site challenged the execution process of the blockade. The court, however kept the doors open for the state to further seek a remedy in the way “established by the law”. 

 The case dates back to the second week of June, a few days after the trouble broke out in Darjeeling, when a local newspaper uploaded some photographs related to the Hills agitation. State agencies found the posts incriminating and the cyber crime department at Lalbazar sent a request to   to block the page of the newspaper on the social networking site. After they failed to get a suitable reply from the   company, the state government moved a metropolitan magistrate court in Kolkata on June 18. “The court directed the ‘designated officer’ in the Centre to ask Facebook to block the page of the news organization,” said public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee. 
 
 Facebook, on the other hand, challenged the procedure in which the page was sought to be blocked by the state government. It argued the metropolitan magistrate court cannot direct it to block the page and there are designated authorities under the IT Act to do so. It has also argued there was no FIR against the offender but an investigating officer moved the metropolitan magistrate court. The Section 10 of the IT Act clearly lays out the provisions to block a website and the procedure was not in consonance. 
 
 Appearing on behalf of Facebook, advocate Sidharth Luthra said it was for the Centre to see whether there was any violation of the IT ACT by the news organization. 
 
 According to sources, Section 69 (a) of the IT Act mandates creation of a nodal agency by the state government to handle such complaints. The agency needs to send its observation to CERT-In after going through the complaint. 
 
 The CERT-In then needs to send a directive to the company or the owner of the website with a plea to block the page. Sources said the state government is now forming the nodal agency to redress such complaints. 
 
 “The state government has been mulling formation of the agency for some time. After the agency is formed it will be much easier for the state to handle such blocking issues,” said special public prosecutor Bibhas Chatterjee. 
 
