The ETMoney personal   app promises to transform the way you manage your money

 Have you stopped short of creating a budget just because it's so difficult to monitor your expenses? The tedious exercise of tracking spends often ends because either you don't remember where you spent the money or can't curb overspending. Perhaps you could do with a personal assistant, who would note how much and where you spend every day, offer options to save more and even invest your funds.
 
 There's help for you in the form of several personal finance apps like Money Lover and MTrakr that assist in budgeting by listing your expenses and accounts. A new entrant in this market is the ETMoney app, earlier called SmartSpends, due to its focus on spending. It has now expanded its scope to include investing as well.
 
 A welcome feature in this app is the smooth user interface. All you need to do is provide access to the e-mail account and messages on your phone. The app will automati cally allocate your spends to specific categories like travel, restaurant, entertainment, etc. It will show where you spend the most so that you can identify the biggest leaks. Of course, only transactions made through credit cards, debit cards, Net banking and other cashless modes will be tracked by the app. Expenses incurred using cash will be tracked only if you feed in the details manually or automate fixed, recurrent expenses.
 
 If you fill in the due dates for various bills, it will alert you about the payment deadlines. By including your credit cards, you can know where to use which card to avail of the best discounts and offers.You can also keep yourself informed about deals and offers in specific categories like travel, apparel, etc.
 
 There is also the provision to invest in mutual funds, where you will find various fund categories and their re turns, and can conduct the transaction on the phone itself after   verification. This will be particularly useful for those planning to invest in taxsaving mutual funds. A new option, SmartDeposit, can also ensure higher returns for your savings by investing in the right mutual funds, instead of letting the money idle in your savings bank account. A good feature in all categories, be it Spends, Bill Calendar, SmartDeposit or  , is that each option is clearly explained before using it. It is, however, advisable to have a software to protect against viruses and for remotely wiping out data if you don't want your details leaked in case your phone gets hacked or stolen.
 
 
