KANNUR: The land of looms and lore is all set to host the 57th edition of the State  , the biggest art event in Asia, which is coming to the town after an interval of ten years.

 The festival, in which over 12,000 participants would compete in 232 items, including 172 stage events, would be inaugurated by chief minister   on Monday afternoon, at the main venue, named ‘Nila’, at the Police Ground. Singer K S Chitra would be the chief guest on the occasion. It would be followed by the Mohiniyattam competition for high school girls.
 
 This time the festival is being conducted totally following green protocol and the venues also have a ‘green shade’, as they have been named after the major rivers in the state.
 
 Minister for ports  , who is also the programme committee chairman, said preparations were in the final stage and efforts were on to make it a historic event in all respects.
 
 In the wake of the complaints about malpractices in judging the competitions this time stringent measures have been initiated to ensure transparency according to director of public instruction (DPI) K V Mohan Kumar. The chief minister also have said that the vigilance were asked to monitor the festival to ensure transparency.
 
 The organizers said the results would be announced immediately after each event and it would be posted online as well. There would be over 600 judges, and also, 850 teachers have been trained to manage the processing of results to avoid any glitches.
 
 The government has sanctioned Rs 2.1 crore for this year’s festival compared to Rs 1.99 crore last year. A mobile application to access all the information regarding the cultural extravaganza has been made functional. The Android app, School Kalolsavam 2017, can be downloaded from Google Play store.
 
 Meanwhile, the kitchen of the festival, at  , has started functioning with a formal ‘palukachal’ on Sunday. Pazhayidam Mohanan Namboothiri, who regularly takes the catering contract for the festival, would be in charge of the kitchen this time too.
 
 The festival will conclude on January 22, in which leader of the opposition , Ramesh Chennithala would be the chief guest.
 
