JAIPUR: It will be an uphill task for the Jaipur Municipal Corporation ( ) to score points in   of  , starting from Friday, as it is still short of fully-fledged preparations. 

 The Centre’s team will arrive on January 27 for the inspection. However, civic body is yet to ensure proper collection and segregation of waste in the run-up to the cleanliness survey of 500 towns and cities across the country by the Union government. 
 
 One of the parameters of the survey included door-to-door garbage collection and disposal of solid waste. But, JMC has so far, failed to initiate door-to-door garbage collection scheme and proper segregation of waste has not started yet either. 
 
 Also, waste-to-energy plans have hit a roadblock due to the lack of a power purchase agreement (PPA). 
 
 “A firm for the door-to-door garbage collection scheme has been finalised and work order for one package has been issued. But, it would take another three months to start proper garbage collection in the city,” said a JMC official.
 
 The waste-to-energy project will take minimum two years as land will be earmarked and detailed project report will be prepared after the PPA is signed.
 
 The city might also lose points on construction of toilets in the houses. The JMC has received application to construct 18,000 toilets in houses, but only 6,000 toilets have been constructed so far. As far as construction of public toilets is concerned, there are only 150 public and community toilets in the city. 
 
 Under   Survekshan, cities would be marked on a scale of 2,000. Out of this, 900 marks will be based on the feedback from urban local bodies, 600 on the feedback given by citizens and 500 on the observation made by the survey team.
 
 The JMC is eyeing to score points after redressing sanitation-related problems through it’s mobile app. The civic body is trying to satisfy citizens as the ministry of urban development (MoUD) has linked the app with Swachh Survekshan. Of the total 2,000 marks, 300 depend on complaints redressed and citizens’ feedback. 
 
 However, out of 5,348 complaints, 4,345 were resolved after the given time. Moreover, majority of complainants have given negative feedback and expressed they were dissatisfied with JMC services. 
 
 “Till date, the JMC has received 2,326 feedbacks, of which, 864 complainants have given satisfied remark while 1,204 have shown dissatisfaction. Around, 258 have given neutral remarks.” 
 
 
