BENGALURU: In a new blow to the  , 40% of the 2,000   who are part of the All-India Online Vendors' Association (AIOVA) have stopped selling on  , asking the company to clear their dues.

 Earlier, AIOVA claimed that about Rs 400 crore in dues was stuck with Snapdeal, as reported by TOI in its February 23 edition. The online group for sellers is one of the most vocal on socialmedia channels raising concerns against e-commerce companies and has been constantly addressing issues to the commerce ministry.
 
 “About 40% of our sellers have stopped doing business on Snapdeal due to plummeting sales and multiple issues, including nonpayment of dues. They will return to the platform if the company resolves these issues and provides a written assurance,“ a spokesperson of AIOVA said.He said they had not received any response from Snapdeal founders Kunal Bahl and Ro hit Bansal on the issue.
 
 People privy to the development said 30% of total sellers have left Snapdeal over the past one year. The online marketplace claims it has 300,000 sellers. Sources pointed out that a significant chunk of these sellers is not active and a majority of business for the e-tailer comes through only 50,000 sellers.
 
 TOI reported in its March 9 edition that Axis Bank asked a group of Snapdeal sellers to clear their loans failing which the bank will be forced to stop the overdraft facility to them. Sanjay Thakur, president of e-seller Suraksha, an association of 1,500 vendors, said Snapdeal executives have agreed to meet them and address their concerns regarding pending payments next week.
 
 With e-commerce firms like Snapdeal facing a cash crunch, and companies like Askmebazaar and BestDealTV shutting down, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are on tenterhooks about their loan recovery from online merchants who sold on these plat forms. Sources said the overall pending recovery from these sellers is estimated at Rs 800 crore to Rs 900 crore.
 
 TOI reviewed the communication from one of the leading   firms to a seller of AIOVA asking to clear dues at the earliest. While Askmebazaar and BestDealTV, owned by Raj Kundra and Shilpa Shetty, are yet to settle dues with sellers, the mounting troubles at Snapdeal are making stakeholders jittery.
 
 The Axis Bank move has triggered a sense of uncertainty among stakeholders over the fate of loans disbursed to sellers on e-commerce sites. Gurgaon-based Snapdeal recently laid off 600 employees in its attempt to conserve cash.
 
 The school opened a decade ago and built a hostel for highschool students in 2013. The Chikkanayakanahalli tahsildar and block education officer have submitted a report in this regard.
 
 Deputy commissioner K P Mohan Raj said he was “surprised“ that the management was running the hostel without permission.Deputy director for public instructions Manjunath confirmed that the hostel lacked permission.
 
 Kotresh, father of Shantha Murthy who died in the tragedy, said he admitted his ward to the hostel paying an annual fee of Rs 40,000 so that he could concentrate on his studies.
 
