Noida: Any realtor failing to honour its commitment to hand over possession of homes to buyers could be arrested, Uttar Pradesh industrial development minister Satish Mahana said on Thursday. The minister said the government would go to any lengths to resolve homebuyers’ issues. In keeping with the directions of UP chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath on the issue, Mahana said, the state government would not shy away from the sternest step, even initiating action for arrest, against any builder not fulfilling his commitment.  Mahana’s announcement came after a marathon eight-hour brainstorming session, during which he listened to both the buyers and builders spell out their issues. Speaking after the meeting, Mahana said each stakeholder’s problem was discussed in detail. “I have directed Noida Authority officials to review each of the 39 group housing projects which are pending starting from May 24. We will find ways to expedite the completion certificates for these projects so that homebuyers can register their property as soon as possible,” he said. The minister said he has asked officials to be as liberal as possible on the issue. “Builders have already provided a phase-wise, tower-wise possession schedule, which once verified will be uploaded on Noida’s website,” he said. “Additional CEO-level officer will monitor the issue closely. If commitments are not met, we will take strict action,” he warned. Of the 112 group housing projects in Noida, currently only 29 are complete, 44 developers have applied for completion certificates and the remaining 39 are in trouble as they have not yet applied for either amnesty or occupancy certificates. “Details of all pending building plans and completion certificates will be uploaded on the Authority website within a week,” Mahana said. On their part, builders told the minister about the delays in getting building plan approvals and completion certificates from the Authority. The builders also urged the minister to make the Authorities waive interest for the period during which NGT had barred construction/completion in the ‘eco-sensitive zone’ within a 10-km radius of Okhla Bird Sanctuary, as well as the period during which the Allahabad high court had stopped construction in cases of farmer disputes with Authorities, and the minister promised to take a favourable decision in the matter. Mahana said that apart from homebuyers’ issue, he has directed officials to focus on providing the common man with civic amenities. The Minister also met Noida’s entrepreneurs and promised to look into their issues. “UP will soon finalise a new industrial policy, which is aimed at propelling industry,” he told the entrepreneurs. Manoj Gaur, president, Credai, NCR, said it was a fruitful meeting. “We drew the minister’s attention to concessions for those land areas which were affected by farmer movements against land acquisition. However we are on the same page with Noida Authority and UP state government. The first priority of the builders now is to hand over apartments to buyers.”