Move over the stage, lights and visuals, a lesser-practised form of theatrical is being propelled into Bengaluru’s drama arena – audio  . Unlike radio plays, which are often considered more of a community or group affair, audio plays are a personal experience and an interesting way to explore the power of storytelling done through the medium of sound alone. Posing as a competitor to podcasts, which are quite common in the West, audio plays are yet to catch as a trend in India. Nonetheless, a city-based theatreperson is set to launch a new play, which will unfold on the stage and an audio format simultaneously. Titled 
 , the drama is written and directed by Amit Ranjan Sahu, while its podcast version is being devised by a startup called Storeo. 

 So, how challenging is it to craft an audio play? “We have worked on an   for the first time. It may sound hassle-free, because in audio theatre one just needs to tackle the verbal aspect. But things can turn quite tricky. From the acoustic performance, ambience and voice variations to tandem rehearsals – a number of factors come into play. It is less time consuming, compared with a stage play, but sound intricacies and gripping content matter more to keep the audiences’ attention,” says Amit.
 
 Audio plays are also expected to have more outreach, catering to listeners from all age groups. “Instead of travelling to a venue, one can listen to a play while on the go or just lounging at a friend’s place. We trying to create a similar impact like good music on art lovers,” explains the actor-director. 
 
 Described as “closer to life”, the play touches upon multiple themes such as drama, comedy and suspense, while it also focusses on social issues but in a subtle way. “It is an original play, which is premiering in Bengaluru in English and Hindi languages. The narrative follows the life of a girl who goes missing and ends up traversing unknown lands,” he adds. 
 
 Presented by Ratan Thakore Grant’s Studio For Acting – MISF!T, the cast of the play includes actors Abhisek Purkayastha, Manisha Bhatotia, Ritesh Srivastava, Anoop Singh, Asif Rahman, Sai Shilpa, Swetha Jonnalagada, Richa Mishra, Tantrima Basistha, Arun Duvva, Pratham Mehta, Varsha Chandrashekar, Prateek Arora, Manikantan Vijaykumar, Raja Adithya Varma, Mahaboob Shaik and Ilhaam Ashraf.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
