AGRA: The recent arrest of a well-connected gang of con-men who were using a sophisticated system to   has revealed that the   was active for 16 years in various northern states of the country includig NCR. They were managed by a kingpin based in Siwan district of Bihar. In Agra, the gang was run by the son of a high court lawyer, while the son of an   was the 'second in command'.

 The story, according to the police, started 16 years ago in Bihar, when the mastermind (name withheld by TOI to avoid jeopardising the ongoing investigation) of the gang who goes by four aliases started duping customers of LIC by withdrawing their maturity amount with cloned cheques. They were being helped by a small team which included courier boys, bank employees and insurance agents.
 
 Later, the tentacles of the gang slowly spread to other parts of the country such as UP, MP, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi NCR.
 According to the police, the team of con-men arrested on March 22 from Aurangabad in Mathura district started operating in Agra around the year 2012, led by 'captain' Shashank Vishwakarma from Allahabad, the son of a high court lawyer, while his 'second-in-command' Ketan Verma is the son of an   official. Verma was earlier part of the gang of fraudster Bobby Singh, who is currently serving a jail term in Allahabad.
 
 The other members of the Agra gang were Gaurav Singh, an insurance agent who had experience in working with several public sector banks and was currently employed in Oriental Bank of Commerce, while the fourth member Anoop Singh hailing from Achhnera, Agra worked as middle-man to gather intelligence about gullible potential victims. The last member was a courier boy working for a private company in Farah close to Aurangabad.
 
 Vishal Sharma, the   who busted the gang told TOI, "The gang used to make templates of bank cheques from actual cheque books which were not delivered to genuine clients. Then using a network of courier delivery men, bank employees and insurance agents, the gang used to get photos of original cheques deposited in banks, and make cloned cheques with which they would withdraw money from the bank accounts of victims."
 
 According to police, Ketan Verma, Anoop Singh and Gaurav Singh would snap pictures of victim's cheques kept in banks, post offices and insurance company from Agra, Mathura, Delhi, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country. After cloning the cheque, the Agra-based gang used to wire the money into another gang member Mangal Singh's account.
 
 Mangal Singh is a resident of Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, and had opened several bank accounts on   and Pan cards in MP and UP. He is absconding.
 
 Illustrating the cloning process, Sharma said, "With the use of software like Corel graphic designer, the con-men team used to replace branch name and cheque series number and then with forged signature used to drop the cheque in banks."
 
 Police have recovered 22 bank account numbers associated with different fake names. The mastermind in Siwan used to keep 60% of the money siphoned out.
 
