If there is one season that does not sit well with Gurgaon, it is monsoon. As soon as it rains, the roads of   are flooded, leading to severe waterlogginng and jams that can easily last several hours, crippling the city and stranding thousands on the road. Managers and bosses in corporate offices across Gurgaon tell us that for them, rains mean a different kind of flood – a flood of requests for work-from-home. With roads either waterlogged or choked with traffic, the commute between work and home becomes impossible, and with bosses themselves stuck for hours, they can't even refuse work-from-home requests.

  
 Monsoon has barely begun, but a few days of rain last week was enough to kick-start the work-from-home season in Gurgaon corporate world. 
 
  Arvind Nagar, HR manager with a consultancy in Cyber City, says, "Last year when it rained, there were jams and waterlogging across the city and most of our employees were stuck on the road. So, we decided to let them work from home if the situation became that bad again. This year, as soon as it started raining last week, we got so many requests for work-from-home across the board that it became difficult to manage."
 
  Alok Singh, who heads the sales team in an IT firm in the city, says, "In IT and consultancy, you can work from home if your work revolves around taking calls and handling overseas clients. All you need is a laptop and internet connectivity. But for marketing, that is impossible. It is a field job. Still, a lot of my juniors ask whether they can work from home due to the jam. I tell them chhutti hi le lo; there is not much work you can do sitting at home."
 
 
 However, bosses say that even they know that getting stuck in a jam or waterlogging due to rain is a valid and genuine excuse during monsoon in Gurgaon. Rabia Akhtar, operations manager with a consultancy firm, tells us, “The problem is a genuine one. If someone who lives on MG Road says they can’t come because their society entrance is submerged in knee-deep water, I know it is not an exaggeration. I have seen that happen. So if someone staying here uses rain as a reason to work from home during monsoon, it is just as valid as a medical emergency.” Aniket Arora, a team leader with a consultancy on Golf Course Road, says, "Even I took a work-from-home when it rained last week as I could not get out of my society and go to work. So how can I stop my employees?"
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Most managers say they are already coming up with plans and re-arranging their work rosters in a way that the productivity doesn't get affected during monsoon.  , a senior manager with an IT firm in the city, says, “We are already bracing for the monsoon by drawing up plans through which we can give people the option of working from home without letting work productivity get affected. The problem happens when it rains, since over half of the office is absent." Ravi Singhal, an HR manager with a small tech firm in the city, adds, "Last week when it rained heavily and there were jams across the city, half the office was empty. Most people hadn’t taken a leave, but were working from home. It becomes difficult to coordinate if half of your team is working from remote locations and you cannot monitor their productivity and the work’s progress that easily. It’s something we are trying to work around because it will only increase as monsoon has already begun."
 
  
  
 
  
 The corporate employees of the Millennium City say that it’s not just the inability to go out due to waterlogging that stops them from going to work. The fear of getting stuck on the road is just as bad. Raman Vasishtha, an advertising professional who lives on MG Road, says, “Sometimes, it’s not waterlogging but the fear of the infamous ‘Gurujam’ that is enough to stop us from heading to work. I know that if it’s raining in Gurgaon, there will be massive jams. My office is in Cyber Hub and I do not want to spend hours on the road just stuck in traffic. It is more sensible to just work from home. And thankfully, the bosses are ok with it.”
 
  
  TV actor Jasvinder Singh depicts the plight of an employee travelling to Gurgaon in monsoon by posing for us at the  
 
 
  
 Kshitij Jain, a consultant whose office is on the Golf Course Road, says, "Last year, I was stuck on the road for hours several times during the rains while getting to work. Many times, I had to take important calls or work roadside on the laptop. To avoid that, I have already told my boss that this year, heavy rains and waterlogging would mean I work from home."
 
  Rati Varshney, who commutes from her home in Sector 56 to her office in Cyber Hub, says, "In the Gurgaon rains, one should just stay at home. I have already told my seniors in office that if there is a big jam due to rains, I would work from home, otherwise half of my day would be spent on the road. I remember two of my colleagues had to do a video conference on their laptops while on the road last month. Nobody wants that."
 
  
  
 
 
