HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old housewife lodged a complaint with the   against her husband and in-law's after she was divorced by her US based husband through a WhatsApp message. 

 Usman Qureishi, 25, a senior analyst at  , married Mahreen Noor of Malakpet in 2015. After the marriage, Usman spent some time with his wife and left to New York. "Mahreen has been staying with her in-laws at Moghupura and in the last week of February, she received a WhatsApp message from Usman saying - Talaq Talaq Talaq. Subsequently in-laws shunted Mahreen out of their house and she lodged a complaint with us on February 27," Moghulpura inspector R Devender said. Based on the complaint lodged by Mahreen, police registered a case against Usman, his parents, Abdul Hafeez and, Atiya Khulsum and their daughter, Sabina Sultana under IPC section 498-a (subjecting a married woman to cruelty). 
 
 "The family members of Usman claimed that he had also sent talaq notice through email. But, Mahreen has not received any talaq documents and the talaq over WhatsApp is not valid," the inspector said.
 
 While police are investigating the harassment case, Mahreen along with her co-sister, Heena Fatima, who was divorced in a similar manner by Usman's elder brother, Syed Fayazuddin, six months ago, staged a protest in front of their in-law's house at Moghulpura. Fayazuddin also stays in New York with his brother and he has two daughters.
 
 "When, Mahreen and Fatima tried to enter the house of their in-law's on Thursday, their father-in-law Hafeez, pushed them out," South Zone DCP V Satyanarayana said.
 
  Mahreen lodged a separate complaint and a case was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage the modesty of a woman) . "We have arrested Hafeez and his wife Atiya," the inspector said.
 
 Heena Fatima lodged a complaint against her husband Fayazuddin and his parents six months back after he sent divorce papers from the USA. "We have filed a chargesheet in the case. Her husband did not return to India and we have issued a Look Out Circular against him," Mirchowk SI V laxmaiah said.
 
