KOLKATA: Suspected psychopath killer Udayan Das reached Kolkata at 6.19pm on Monday, nearly eight hours behind schedule, thanks to basic procedural lapses on the part of his captors.

 Das is to be produced in court by Thursday. Scheduled to board the morning flight from Raipur to Kolkata on Monday, the   team that had travel plans finalized on Saturday was denied boarding after the cops failed to produce a document necessary to transport prisoners by air. The team eventually managed to board an evening flight, helped by a call from the state’s top cop to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ), expediting the permission from the   (BCAS). 
 
 That the cops either did not know, or did not care to get the permission necessary for transporting a prisoner by air was a huge embarrassment for them, felt a veteran officer.
 
 When the police team accompanying Das arrived at Raipur airport around 8.30am, in time for the 9.30am flight to Kolkata, they were looking forward to the hour-long flight instead of the long train journey. The initial plan was to travel by two connecting trains: board on Saturday and reach Bankura on Monday. But with Das telling cops on Saturday that he had also murdered his parents in Raipur, Bhopal police decided to first take him to Raipur to confirm the twin killings before the travel to Bankura. It was the Bhopal cops that booked the Bankura cops and Das on a Monday morning flight to Kolkata.
 
 At the terminal, several passengers recognised Das, whose photographs had been splashed in the media. When the flight to Kolkata was announced and the plainclothes cops from Bengal accompanying Das reached the boarding gate, some passengers approached the IndiGo ground staff and expressed apprehension over a suspected killer travelling with them. Realizing they had a prisoner on the passsenger list, the IndiGo staff asked the cops to furnish the authorization letter issued by BCAS, which they couldn’t.
 
 “The police were not carrying necessary documents required for transporting a prisoner,” said an IndiGo spokesperson. “In fact, the prisoner was travelling just like any other passenger. On being told that the rule required written permission from BCAS, the cops appeared surprised. We asked them to approach the Mumbai office of BCAS for the necessary document so that they could travel on the evening flight.”
 
 M N Chaturvedi, a former deputy commissioner of BCAS, said the permission was required as there were standard operating procedures for both cabin crew and accompanying policemen to follow. “The rules have been framed to ensure everyone’s safety. The prisoner has to be boarded last. He is to be seated in the middle seat of the last row with cops on either side. He cannot go to the toilet unaccompanied, and no food is to be served during the journey, among other requirements. Since transport of prisoners by flight is not uncommon, policemen are well versed with the procedure. It is surprising that the cops were not aware of the rules,” he said.
 
 Bankura S P Sukhendu Heera said he had called up the Kolkata IndiGo office and was assured there would be no problem in boarding, if the cops were not carrying firearms. “The airline official even made a strange request — that care should be taken to ensure that other passengers did not know a prisoner was travelling with them,” he said. He didn’t come clear on why his officers had not sought BCAS permission.
 
 After the morning flight took off for Kolkata without Das and the officers, the SP contacted the Bengal DGP who, along with the home department, got in touch with the DGCA and sought help to clear the formalities.
 
 Finally, around 3pm, cops obtained the BCAS certificate, clearing Das’s travel to Bankura via Kolkata. The team took the evening flight that touched down at Kolkata at 6.19pm. “The entire fiasco is hugely embarrassing for us,” said a veteran officer.
 
 
