City police commissioner   says the police are doing everything to make the city a safe place for the residents. However, the challenge before them was to detect the bad from among those who look good and even behave well. Excerpts from an interview with  . 

 
 
 Many of the criminals are hard to detect as they will behave as good citizens in one part of the city while they being involved in crime in another part. They will also look clean and unsuspicious. Madurai city has long been considered as volatile and sensitive where kangaroo courts and extortion were prevalent. That situation has changed through planned policing. Rowdy elements also have been silenced by deterrent policing. 
 
 Adoloscents and youngsters seem to be involved in a big way in crimes here.
 
 Most of the criminals involved in cell phone robberies, chain snatching or thefts are in the age group of 17 to 21. Even 16-year-olds have been caught. They want to make a quick buck to buy two-wheelers or mobile phones. A majority of them are dropouts and spoilt children. 
 
 Handling young offenders, especially first timers, must be tricky as police action may turn them into hardened criminals. 
 
 The main purpose of law is reformation. We try to counsel minors and young criminals. We tell them that they have the opportunity to study well and settle in life. We try to give them examples of people who had once been involved in crime and now have become eminent and model citizens. I have seen many of them getting reformed. But there are others who are difficult to reform as their mind would have been corrupted at a young age. 
 
 
 
 
 We have been taking action to bring down all sorts of crime. Even recently, we arrested a person who was involved in around 100 two-wheeler thefts all by himself. It was found that he was involved in more thefts just to fight the cases against him. He had plenty of keys to steal vehicles. I request the citizens to use secondary locks to save their bikes. 
 
 
 
 Madurai police will continue to give importance to modernisation and easy access to police through SOS, WhatsApp and Facebook complaints. City police also has a website for this purpose. Earlier, there used to be public disturbances like road block during guru poojas. Now, city police has made sure that these are conducted without affecting the public and traffic. We will continue to give feeling of safety and security to the public. We are also focusing on minimising the number of deaths due to road accidents.
 
