JAISALMER: District collector   has directed the Rajasthan   ( ) to repair   of 25 houses from where seepage was destroying the  , a world heritage site. 

 Meena has also directed for removal of electricity wires hanging around the fort. These would now be placed underground so that they do not hinder the fort’s beauty. A budget of Rs 2 crore has been allocated to the municipal council for the purpose.
 
 Following a meeting of the empowered committee on Sonar Fort, in Jaipur, four days ago, a follow-up meeting was held in Jaisalmer on Saturday evening. Besides the district collector, the meeting was attended by municipal council chairperson Kavita Khatri, UIT chairman Jitendra Singh, ADM K L Swami and others.
 
 Meena said special efforts were needed for conservation of the fort. He directed the municipal council commissioner to make a check-list of problems and their solutions by going to the spot.
 
 He reviewed the sewerage system, supply of drinking water and directed to prepare a special action plan for improvement of existing systems. 
 
 The municipal council commissioner was directed to ensure that no cattle roamed in the fort and that three security guards be deployed there for round-the-clock duty of eight hours each. Also, the fort will now be regularly cleaned.
 
 The civic officials were directed to identify encroachments and ensure their removal within a timeframe, with the help of ward councillor and the residents. 
 
 Councillor Arvind Vyas said the water tank in the fort was not in good condition and should be rebuilt. The district administration would seek ASI’s permission to rebuild the tank.
 
 The district collector has directed that vehicles should not be permitted in the fort. He asked the police to take help of the municipal council to ensure that the taxis were parked at Dushera Chauraha and no taxi or four-wheeler be allowed beyond that point.
 
 The electricity department has been directed to make proposal for underground cabling and submit it to the municipal council so that budget can be released on priority. 
 
 Municipal council chairperson Kavita Khatri emphasised that the dilapidated houses in the fort be razed.
 
