NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday pulled up the police saying investigation into the disappearance of   student Najeeb   “has not been done properly”.

 A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Deepa Sharma said the police appears to be looking for an “escape route” and is “beating around the bush” rather than interrogating the suspects.
 
 The bench was also critical of forensic analysis reports of the missing student’s laptop and call records filed by the police in a sealed cover. The court said that the conduct of the report being pitched as something so confidential, which has not even been shared with the police lawyers, “gives us the impression that a fast one is being played on us.”
 
 “We have to keep in mind the possibility that the police is trying to sensationalise or find an escape route. We are left with the impression that the investigation is not being done properly. You are beating around the bush,” an angry bench remarked.
 
 The court highlighted that the police was sending its team across the country and setting up special investigating teams (SITs), but the nine students suspected to be behind Ahmad’s disappearance were not questioned on day one or detained. “Did you check their messages and WhatsApp chats? If they have deleted it that itself is incriminatory,” it told   who is heading the probe.
 
 Even earlier the police faced the court’s wrath several times for the manner in which it has been carrying out the probe and filing confidential reports without any real breakthrough.
 
 Blasting the police probe, the court also said, “If today it is Najeeb, tomorrow it could be anybody. Just because he belongs to a particular community or the suspects owe allegiance to a particular political outfit doesn’t mean the police won’t investigate properly.”
 
 Responding to the court’s scathing criticism Naik assured the bench that he is investigating the case from all aspects and angles, including that of Ahmad’s medical condition. The police officer argued that he didn’t seize the mobile phones of the suspected students as there was no material to proceed against them.
 
 However, the bench disagreed and said if the suspected students had allegedly assaulted Ahmad a day before his disappearance, then “it was logical” to check their mobile phones. It also told Naik not to be “judgmental” about Ahmad’s medical condition.
 
 The court was hearing a plea by Ahmad’s mother,  . The JNU student had gone missing from the varsity campus on October 15, 2016. Nafees has also sought setting up of an independent SIT from outside Delhi.
 
