MUMBAI: To complete the   process before  ,   is contemplating to have   on   at a stage when the work can be achieved at maximum speed without any technical glitches. This means that teachers involved in online assessment will not take lectures on those five days. 

 With   offering its 200 terminals to Mumbai University, the authority will also request teachers to travel to  , if they are willing to, to assess answer papers.
 
 While several suggestions were mooted in a meeting held on Friday with the board of studies’ chairmen from two faculties, the above two proposals are likely to be soon implemented. “There is no point in asking teachers to exercise on-duty leave at this stage, when there still are technical glitches during the process. Once the assessment attains its maximum speed, we will allow teachers to cancel their lectures for five days. Announcement of the results is our top priority right now,” said a university official. Two months after the process was initiated, around 7% of the answersheets are still to be uploaded on the server, added the official.
 
 Courses in commerce, arts and law faculties are of major concern for the university at this stage even as assessment in science and technology are already showing improvement. “For commerce, the sheer number of papers involved has made it a daunting task. Close to 50% of the 19 lakh answer sheets are from the commerce faculty alone,” said the official. “The complexities involved in subjects in arts have led to several technical glitches and in law, a majority of teachers are appointed on clock-hour basis. It is difficult to get them to do assessment work on our schedule.” 
 
 Sending teachers to YCMOU in Nashik is another solution that the university is toying with. “YCMOU has already offered us their infrastructure. They have a good guest house facility, where teachers can go and assess papers in batches, if they are willing to. The university is ready to take care of the costs involved,” said the official. The agency that is carrying out the assessment work will have to set up the software there for the exercise.
 
 
