Chandigarh: Reviving childhood memories from the ‘God's own country’, Kerela, the Chandigarh Malyalee Association observed   festivities, at Jat Bhawan, Sector 27, Chandigarh on Sunday. The celebrations saw an influence of North Indian flavour. 

 Rendering dignity and respect to their place of residence, numerous dance performances and song recitals were not only performed in Malyalam but in Hindi and Punjabi too. The event also saw a significant number of Sikh and Hindu visitors, curious to learn the culture of their Keralite counterparts. Speaking to TOI, secretary, Chandigarh Malayalee Association said Thomas Joseph, “This event is not just for the Tricity-based Keralite population, but for everyone who lives with and around us so. The event follows the theme of patriotism, unity in diversity, communal harmony and traditional celebrations.”
 
 While enjoying ‘Sadya’, a typical Keralite meal, Balwant Khanna, seated with his wife and daughter said, “I work in a government department in Chandigarh and a lot of people from the Keralite community who are here work with me. I was invited for this event and that is why I am here. This has been incredible, and the food is delicious.”
 
 The same was visible through live performances of young girls of Keralite origin dancing on popular Bollywood numbers and not just on Malyalam tracks. A local band of South Indian origin were also performing songs from the repository of latest Bollywood pop music. The audience comprising Sikhs, Hindus, Christians and Muslims from north and south India alike were seen enjoying the day happily.
 
 “We Indians are of so many colours, shapes and sizes and we sometimes forget that unity is our strength. Through such events, we bring people and the community closer and we realise that no matter where you go, you can make any place your home with love and the right people,” said Kutappam (66), who is half North Indian and half Keralite and has been living in Chandigarh since numerous decades. 
 
 Members of the Chandigarh Malayalee Association also gave a ‘Giddha’ performance embracing their North Indian identity. ‘No matter where we are from, but we love Chandigarh and North India and we have been living here since a long time. Hence, Punjabi culture is also very much a part of our life,” said a dance instructor of the Giddha performance under conditions of anonymity.
 
 A good number of doctors, engineers and IT professionals were also seen helping themselves to traditional Keralite home-cooked meals. One said, “ It has been a few years since I came here. So this brings back a lot of memories from home,” said a young doctor working at PGIMER, Chandigarh. 
 
 
