NAGPUR: An interstate   thief gang, based in Madhya Pradesh, burgled five shops in a span of four hours in the wee hours of Monday. Even a dramatic chase by Saoner police after their last burglary which they managed, according to the   footage, within 36 seconds yielded no results.

 The gang, which broke into a couple of shops in MIDC and another two at Wadi before heading to Saoner, escaped in a white four-wheeler with valuables worth more than Rs16 lakhs from five shops. 
 
 In the past too, mobile phone handsets, laptops, other electronic gadgets and accessories worth several lakhs have been stolen from various outlets hoodwinking cops in the early hours of the day by breaking open locks or bending up shutters. 
 
 As per the police, the gang first struck at the mobile shop owned by Praveen Mundhada at   on   before 2am. After bending up the shutter, the gang managed to sneak inside the shop before fleeing with various hi-end mobile handsets worth Rs2 lakhs. The burglary came to notice of the owner only on Monday morning. 
 
 The gang next struck the adjacent mobile handset and accessories shop, owned by  , from where they decamped with valuables worth Rs8 lakhs. Police said the manner in which the gang burgled two neighbouring shops were almost similar, forcefully bending up the middle-portion of the shutter. MIDC police have registered a common offence of burglary following complaints from Mundhada and Choudhary. 
 
 “Police have got substantial footage of the gang from most of the shops. It is most likely that the same four-memeber gang was behind the multiple burglaries as their modus operandi were similar,” said an officer of MIDC police station.
 
 In the two subsequent incidents, the gang struck at two different electronic outlets at Tavakkal Lay Out before decamping with material worth Rs5.39 lakhs. The gang first struck at the shop of Sanjay Singh Rathod from they stole valuables worth Rs5.35 lakhs. Ravi Jaisinghani was luckier among the shop keepers as the gang could not steal much from his shop and could only lay hands on Rs4,000 cash. Wadi police, too has registered a common offence. 
 
 It was in the rural area coming under Saoner police that the gang had nearly got intercepted by cops led by PI DA Wankhede. The gang had sneaked into a shop by bending up the shutter. It was a theft alarm which spoiled their ploy. Alerted by the alarm, a security guard of an adjacent bank rushed to the spot and saw the gang. He alerted the police station. The gang could manage to steal on seven mobiles from the Saoner shop.
 
