THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has cautioned all   against the widespread misuse of an amendment known as 7E amendment, made in the   for overcoming the   as prescribed by the Act. The   legalizes the sale of land up to four acres that should have been surrendered as excess land under KLR Act.

 The latest directive by the board to all the taluk land boards and the district collectors on January 16, accessed by TOI, says the taluk land boards have been ignoring the point that if they are satisfied that a particular land was being sold to get exemption from surrendering excess land to the government, they should also count it while calculating the extent of excess land.
 
 The circular was issued in the wake of several people misusing the 7E amendment in the KLR Act brought in 2005, applicable to land sold before 2005.
 
 The buyers of such land will be considered as “deemed tenants“ and such land will not be counted for calculating the excess land of the person who sold it. Many who held the land in excess (more than 7.5 acres for an individual and more than 15 acres for a family) began selling the land, preparing false sale agreements to show that the land was sold before 2005, to exclude their land from ceiling limits. Though 7E amend ment originally allowed exemption for up to 10 acres, the extent was brought down to four acres from 10 as a measure to cut down the misuse of this provision.
 
 Along with 7E amendment, another amendment was brought in 84(4) of the Act, that said that “if the taluk land board is satisfied that the transfer of land made by a person in possession of excess land was to defeat the ceiling provisions it may take into account the land so transferred in determining his ceiling area and may direct him to surrender such extent of land“.
 
 Moreover, the high court in K T Rajeev versus district collector, Wayanad case ruled that only the registered sale deed should be considered for exemptions under 7E amendment. But from the latest directive by the land board, it has become clear that neither the amendment nor the court order are being considered by taluk land boards while giving exemption for individuals under 7E amendment.
 
 “The 7E amendment itself defeats the very essence of the KLR Act. While it protects the law breakers, those law abiding citizens who voluntarily surrendered their land are the losers. The land board issuing such a circular means that even after reducing the extent from 10 acres to 4 acres, the 7E amendment has still watered down the Act,“ said former special government pleader   who appeared for the state in several cases with regards to misuse of the amendment.
 
