MUMBAI: With $336 million of total revenue in 2016, the lowest for investment banks in the last five years, million-dollar annual bonuses have all but vanished. Shrinking business has not only taken a toll on team sizes, but annual payouts as well.

 Global banks such as Citi, JPMorgan,  , Bank of America   and Morgan Stanley among others have announced annual bonuses — none in seven figures, according to bankers and head hunters.
 
 Annual payouts for most global banks take   in January and February. Domestic banks announce annual bonuses in June. “The payouts this year have been a reflection of the decelerating business,” a senior banker said. “The million-dollar bonuses that were doled out earlier have vanished.”
 
 Added Monica Agarwal, senior client partner and lead of financial services for India at leading global executive search consultant Korn Ferry International: “Bonuses are down by almost 100 per cent from last year as all international banks have been impacted by falling deal flow and shrinking revenue.”
 
 Except for some outliers, million-dollar bonuses have nearly vanished this year, she said. Even where deal flow is happening, it is much smaller, lowering the share from a dwindling kitty.
 
 According to data from Dealogic, a global   data provider, Indian investment banks earned a total of $336 million in January-December 2016, down from $353 million in 2015. The top five banks by fees were Citi, Credit Suisse,  , JPMorgan and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
 
 Other banks will announce their payouts by February.
 
 “There is a whole shift in business with the big boys of I-banking losing out to the Indian players. Consequently, there hasn't been a revenue increase and big bonuses are not being paid out by the global companies this year,” said Kalyani Shastry, associate director, private equity, RGF Executive Search.
 
 Team numbers have been slashed in the last few years owing to shrinking fees. Employees have been cut at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Barclays, Credit Suisse, UBS and  .
 
 
 
 According to domestic executive search firm Vito India, the total headcount in investment banking has shrunk with 184 people moving in 2016 as against 90 in 2015. Just about half of these were to positions outside investment banking, mostly mergers and acquisitions and private equity. In institutional equities, there were 154 moves in 2016 against 117 in 2015. Of these, 57 per cent moved outside the field with 63 per cent going to research.
 
 “American banks have come out of the woods as compared to the British and European banks that have been late to respond to the impending crisis,” said Puneet Pratap Singh, partner in charge, financial services, Heidrick & Struggles.
 
 Emails to Morgan Stanley did not elicit any response. However, some media reports suggest around a 15 per cent cut in bonuses at the firm.
 
  and Bank of America Merrill Lynch spokespersons declined to comment. In an emailed response, a Goldman Sachs spokesperson said, “Compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, discretionary compensation,   of equity awards and other items such as benefits) were $11.65 billion for 2016, 8 per cent lower than 2015, reflecting a decrease in net revenues and the impact from expense savings initiatives. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2016 was 38.1 per cent compared with 37.5 per cent for 2015. Total staff decreased 7 per cent during 2016.”
 
 
 According to a senior banker at a European bank, there’s relief that no job were lost. “Bonuses are secondary, people in the system are worried about massive job cuts,” he said.
 
  told employees in an internal memo that it will cut thousands of jobs and not give dividends to shareholders this year. It said these measures were “tough but unavoidable.” Managing directors and senior employees won’t be paid bonuses, it said.
 
 Compensation at global banks is divided between a fixed component and a variable bonus. In the last few years, they have restructured the variable compensation--cash payouts have been declining while stock and deferred bonuses have gone up. For managing directors across banks, total compensation has not crossed the million-dollar mark this year. To be sure, function heads typically earn total compensation of more than a million dollars annually.
 
