KOCHI: The change in tariff model put forward by   (AERA),   (Cial) will lead to an increase in ticket fare for passengers using Cial. 

 As per the order, Cial is required to compute the aggregate revenue requirement under the 'Hybrid Till' model.
 
 Under this model, the airport charges are calculated using 100% aeronautical revenue and 30% of non-aeronautical revenue to determine airport charges.
 
 Airport officials suggest that the new order will only lead to "marginal" increase in landing fee and parking fee for airline operators. But the operators suggest that the introduction of 'Hybrid Till' will introduce an increase in the expenses of passengers as it would lead to rise in the fare.
 
 "These policies put forward by nodal agencies only take into consideration the profitability of airport, while the finances of airlines are not given thought," said a senior official with an Indian airline.
 
 He said that currently, Indian airlines are finding it difficult to compete with foreign competitors in terms of pricing.
 
 The   ( ) had also expressed disappointed with the introduction of 'Hybrid Till' model suggesting that it would be a retrograde step as it would make "aeronautical charges more expensive" and hence goes against National Civil Aviation Policy 2016, which aimed to "boost" air connectivity in the country.
 
 "What AERA needs to consider is that passengers flying via Kochi are people who are travelling for work in Gulf and coming back home. It does not support corporate travel like in Delhi and Bombay," said an official with a budget India airline, who suggested that they would find it difficult to compete with foreign budget airline services.
 
  had written to the union not to allow certain foreign airlines to operate additional flights during the peak season from August to September.
 
 AERA asked Cial to consider cargo, ground handling and fuel farm services along with rental from leasing space to agencies providing aeronautical services as part of the aeronautical revenue.
 
 Cial said that regardless of the change in tariff policies, it will not "overburden" its passengers with User Development Fee (UDF).
 
 "Even after revision of tariff, Cial's passengers will not have to pay UDF, making it the only UDF-free airport in Kerala. We have recently invested Rs 1,100 crore for   development and is still not transferring the liabilities to the public," a Cial official said.
 
