KOLHAPUR: Residents of wards A, B and E are likely to   on Tuesday as there will be no   for the whole day.

 The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) announced water cuts for two days starting from Monday owing to the work of connecting the main pipelines of Shinganapur Water Scheme with the newly laid Kalammawadi Direct Pipeline Project.
 
 The KMC had filled high rise water tanks located at various parts of city on Sunday midnight and the citizens did get water on Monday morning. However, by afternoon the tanks went dry and the demand for   increased.
 
 S K Kulkarni, chief hydraulic engineer of the KMC, said, “On Monday we deployed eight water tankers which supplied water to 29 places. We utilised the water from high rise tanks to supply water on Monday morning. Moreover, additional water was released to the taps on Sunday evening so that the people can store adequate water required for two days. The demand for water tankers will increase on Tuesday morning and the citizens should not panic as we have planned to deploy more number of tankers and increase the trips.”
 
 The KMC claims that once the work is complete it will help in providing adequate water to Rajarampuri and Kawala Naka section of the E ward.
 
 Rahul Chavan, corporator from Shahupuri, said civic officers were not dealing with the complaints raised by the citizens.
 
 “On being asked about inadequate water supply, the officer told us that water tanks could not be filled properly every time. We have to spend from our pockets to deploy private water tankers as the KMC’s water tankers hardly gets available whenever there are water cuts. People, who do not have tube well, completely depend on water tankers. On Monday morning, the water pressure was also very low,” he said.
 
 Ashok Jadhav, corporator from  , said, “The tankers are not sent on time. In our area around 24,000 people reside, the water pressure is very low for the last one week. I do get response from the officers after the complaint is made, but very few times tankers are provided.” 
 
