BHOPAL: The mystery surrounding the paralysed   that was rescued from Betul’s Rathipur village deepened when a scan showed a musket ball embedded in his spine. Vets surgically removed the iron ball on Tuesday but the tiger is unlikely to survive as the vintage ammunition shattered its spine.

 The king of the beasts probably survived a poaching attempt by tribals.  , director of   in  , said, “The bullet recovered from the tiger was identified as that of a musket. It is spherical in shape and 1.25cm in diameter. We believe a tribal in Betul shot the tiger.”
 
 Muskets date back to the 17th century and were obsolete by the late 19th century but tribals still use the weapon and it is a heirloom in many families. Betul SP   said, “Many people have licence of muskets and it is not a big deal if someone went and fired a shot at the tiger.”
 
 It’s all the more tragic because the tiger is only three years old and in his prime — but for the shattered backbone. It was spotted by villagers lying listless near a riverbank around 7am last Friday. Villagers panicked and called foresters but far from harming them the tiger didn’t even seem able to budge. A team from Satpura Tiger Reserve rescued it and brought it to Van Vihar oblivious to the fact that it had a bullet embedded in its back. Here, too, it refused to eat and only lapped up water.
 
 Rajora said, “On Monday, we suspected there is something serious as the wound was not healing. We decided to get an X-ray done. The tiger was tranquillized on Monday and X-rayed with the help of a mobile C-arm machine, which revealed that there is an iron ball embedded in its back.” 
 
 They immediately started the surgery and removed the musket ball. “Later, forensic examination revealed that it was a round iron bullet, which must have been fired into his body,” she said.
 
 A team of four doctors treated the tiger and found that the bullet has damaged the tiger’s backbone. “We are trying out everything to save the big cat. The positive aspect is that the tiger is responding to treatment but we are not sure if we can save it,” she said.
 
 The tiger is in a critical condition as it has not had food for the past three days. It is being kept alive by intravenous liquids. The district forest officer of Betul and his team have launched an investigation to nab the shooter.
 
