SAMBHAL: Two days ahead of chief minister  's scheduled visit to  ,   of  , who was martyred in firing by   along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir in October 2016, sat on an indefinite fast on Friday demanding that the CM pay a visit to their village Pansukha Milak. They claimed that despite promises by BJP leaders, none of them visited the family again. They want UP CM to visit their village and fulfill all the promises made by elected members and political leaders.
 
  The family claims that Sambhal BJP MP Satyapal Saini had assured that a memorial for martyr Sudhesh Kumar would be constructed and that the village roads would also be build. Amroha MP Kanwar Singh Tanwar had promised that he would provide a gas agency to the widow of martyred jawan's wife. Former state PWD minister Shivpal Singh Yadav had promised to provide a government job to the martyr's brother.
  
  Senior administrative officials have now requested the family to call of the indefinite strike.
  
  On Friday, residents of Pansukha Milak, Allipur and Pansukha gathered at the house of the martyred Army jawan and called a panchayat against administrative officials, parliamentarians and the state government for not fulfilling the promises made to the family of the martyred jawan when his body was brought for cremation. 
  
  The martyred jawan's brother, Sudhir Kumar Katariya, said, "Former minister Shivpal Singh Yadav had assured a government job to me. Eight months have passed since then, and I am yet to get an appointment letter. The Sambhal MP had promised to construct a memorial for my martyred brother but not a single brick has been put."
  
  Holding her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Kavita Katariya, widow of the martyred jawan, said, "I will ask Yogi ji why his partymen had made false promises. We are seeking justice."
  
  Rejecting the allegations of the family members of the martyred jawan, Amroha MP Kanwar Singh Tanwar said, "I have given a cheque of Rs 2.51 lakh from the account of Kanwar Singh Tanwar Sewa Kendra to the family members of the martyred jawan at their house when the body arrived for cremation and had also assured to provide a gas agency to the widow."
  
  "On several occasions I have sent the forms for gas agency to the wife and brother of the martyred jawan but they had not returned the form. What can I do in such a situation. I have told them that whatever they want from me, I am ready to provide, including financial support," said Kanwar Singh Tanwar.
  
  SDM Sambhal, said, "PWD officials and engineer have been instructed to construct the roads leading to the village and that soon the memorial for the martyred jawan would be built. The chief superintendent engineer of UPPCL have also been instructed to supply electricity to the village."
