In  , protests against the   have intensified with agitators declaring that they are ready to defy the ban and face  .

 Students who have been at the forefront of the agitations took out processions in Madurai. Girls too vented their feelings with the same enthusiasm as boys. “If we are arrested let it be us who suffer, but let our heritage and culture triumph,'' said Ilamathy, a Madurai college student. Many girls claimed that their parents who were wary of sending them out for processions had agreed this time since the cause was jallikattu.
 
 In Avaniapuram, Alanganallur and Palamedu where the first jallikattu events of the season are held, people, buoyed by the backing of youth power are preparing to unleash the bulls and conduct the game. “I am not a Facebook user, but I am overwhelmed by what a computer can do in terms of bringing youth together for a cause, something that has been lacking for a long time,'' said S Periyasamy from Palamedu, who says that the youth have instilled confidence in them through these protests.
 
 However, city commissioner of police Shailesh Kumar Yadav urged the protesting students to ensure that they were participating in processions and rallies with permission from the police. “Students should know that there is a   ban on the sport. They should be aware of the organisers of the protests as anti-social groups are also indulging in such activities. Participating in unauthorised protests can lead to criminal action being initiated against the students, which can harm their future,“ he said in a press release.
 
 Jallikattu supporters conducted the sport in several places in Trichy and neighbouring districts defying the ban of the apex court and condemning the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( ) Asserting that the bull fight will be conducted in all the places, state vice-president of Jallikattu Veera Vilaiyattu Peravai Trichy G R Siva said that they were not against the Supreme Court but they cannot tolerate the “onslaught“ on Tamil culture. “We respect the court but it couldn't take any action against Karnataka which refused to give us our share of Cauvery water despite the court rulings. Likewise, we are also ready to defy the ban and conduct jallikattu this year,“ said Siva.
 
 Trichy district police are keeping a close vigil.“We have strengthened our vigil and will go by the court order,“ Trichy superintendent of police T Senthil Kumar told TOI.
 
