NEW DELHI: When 16-year-old Simran (name changed) met childhood acquaintance Surjeet Singh after several years, she had little inkling of the trauma that awaited her. What followed was months of gang rape and  . Simran’s ordeal finally ended on Monday, but not before she was abducted and locked up in a house in Phagwara for a week.

 When Delhi Police did manage to rescue her from Punjab, they found that Simran was five months pregnant. She told police that Singh and his friend had raped her several times. Singh, a truck driver, was arrested following her complaint.
 
 On January 21, when Simran didn’t return from school till late in the evening, her parents approached   to register a complaint. “A case of kidnapping was registered and a team formed to find the girl. However, we had little to go on as the family had not received any ransom call,” said DCP (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad.
 
 The girl’s mother, however, told police that a day before she went missing, Simran had complained of pain in her abdomen and visited a doctor. Police pursued this angle and found that she was pregnant. A quick scan of her phone records revealed that Simran had received a call from a Phagwara number. They tracked down the owner to a village there and questioned him. Finding his replies inconsistent, police continued to probe further. Singh finally broke down and led police to the house where the girl was locked up.
 
 In her statement, Simran said Singh used to live in the same village as his family long time back before they moved to Delhi. In July, she met him outside her school. “I was excited to see him and asked him to come home. My parents were out and so I asked him to wait.” It was then that Singh allegedly forced himself on her. He also clicked her pictures and threatened to show them to her parents.
 
 Singh, she alleged, often met her after that. She claimed that Singh and one of his friends took turns to rape her. They even threatened to kill her and her parents if she told them anything. 
 
 Last week, when Simran told Singh that she was pregnant, he abducted her and drove her all the way to Phagwara. There, he locked her in a room. “We have registered a rape case and arrested the accused. We are looking into the whereabouts of his friend,” said a police officer.
 
 
