Riding high on the rousing appreciation he has been receiving for the songs composed for  , the directorial debut of  ,   is now on cloud nine. Unmindful of the praise, the young musician sits quietly in his studio, asserting that all he wants to do is good music, and that he’s not in competition with anyone. “Does competition exists in  ?” he asks. The reclusive composer gets talking about his brand of music and more in a chat with CT.

 
 
 I knew Raju Murugan, the director of Joker, much before. In fact, I had sung in Cuckoo, his first film. I was working with Santhosh Narayanan and Pradeep Kumar then — it was almost when I entered the industry. The vision of Raju Murugan was amazing. When he approached me, all he wanted was to make a ‘real’ film. Many filmmakers after receiving applause in their first film opt for bigger heroes to star in their second venture. But Raju realised that keeping it small would be better for his second film as well. He casted Guru Somasundaram, a popular face among the Koothu-P-Pattarai circle, to play the lead. I, too, wanted to work in a film that fulfils my artistic aspirations. I had done films that were quirky, unconventional, and a few with commercial nature. But Joker was one project which had the filmy sensibilities that I could relate with. I consider films like Iruvar, Hey Ram, Pudhupettai, etc, as projects that had set a benchmark in Kollywood. I always wanted to do one such project — something which has a serious nature. Joker was a project with so much of honesty in it. The reason I am doing Power Paandi now is actually because of Joker. I thank Raju Murugan for the rest of my life.
 
 
 The last two films of Dhanush sir had Imman sir and Santhosh composing music. His previous associations do not affect me. In fact, I think there would be a pressure for me as well as for him. I have to meet the expectations of people who liked my work in Joker. I have never worked with Dhanush sir before. He ensures that everyone who works with him gets into his groove and combines both the sensibilities (of the composer and his) in a beautiful way. I felt there was no pressure at all once I began working with him. He believes in creating a magic. I learnt a lot in the process. Well, I can’t answer for other composers, but for me, it was certainly a great experience working with him. I guess he has that vibe with each composer.
 
 
 
 I never felt that he was a first-time director. He was very confident and has a certain maturity in handling things. There is a child-like nature in which he handles the art. He’s tailor-made for an artist, a natural writer and thinker. Even the lyrics… he writes it all 
 . For him, the greatest of his creations happen in a very quick span of time. When people see director Dhanush, I think there is going to be a great competition between actor and director Dhanush.
 
 
 
 Whatever I did in Joker was something new — without disturbing the legacy of Tamil cinema (in terms of music). I tried adding an international sound to it. I like to compose music in that way. You listen to gen-next songs, but suddenly when you listen to Oh Butterfly or Ilaya Nila, Thendral Vandhu, you feel as if your soul has been cleansed. Of late, I have seen people missing that. I wanted to do a complete live album with very minimal electronic elements and use maximum live sound to give a fresh feel to music. Raaja sir has created a place for people like us to make use of opportunities. I feel shy, but I’m honoured when people compare my album with that of Raaja sir.   is the face of Tamil music. I have heard that Raaja sir used to go and meet people in villages to understand the essence of music. I cannot have an extraordinary life like Raaja had, but his music has given us clues for us to pick up from.
 
  
 
 Certainly, it will be a challenge, especially because people really love that brand. Definitely, the album would have foot-tapping numbers, and will be inclusive of modern and stylish sounds. I don’t see it as a pressure, but it is a challenge to satisfy the people.
 
 
 
 I don’t have any inhibitions to shed. Cinema is a place where everyone can meet. You can learn a lot, too. For instance, I have learnt a lot from Anthony Daasan’s singing. He also has this beautiful way of connecting with people when he’s on stage. Though he comes from a different background, he has performed in various international music festivals. He doesn’t look for anything else except taking his art to people. That’s the takeaway here. An artist should keep looking for new things. Whenever I stop learning, I feel scared, redundant or stagnant. As long as I know less, I feel better about myself as that’s how I learn new things.
 
 
 
 I don’t see their previous works. Every song chooses its singer. I have sung some hit numbers, but I was not a choice because they needed a hit number. When Anirudh called me for Kannaane Kanne, he didn’t call me because I was a hit singer (I was not actually). The same applied for Adiye Azhage... the choice was the right singer for the song. It is the same thing for me. I like every singer and there is no dearth for good singers, too. 
 
 
 
 When I started my band Sean Roldan & Friends, I used to pen all the lyrics. I can’t call them lyrics. Those were the thoughts that I was trying to get out of my head. When it comes to films, I feel it is not good enough. I try and refrain myself from writing. Sometimes, when I feel like writing, I do it. 
 
 
 
 Our relationship has certainly not changed. We all had our love for harmony, melody and wanted do something quirky. I think we are still the same people. When two or more people get together and work on something, there is bound to be new elements. We don’t know what we created and didn’t intend to create something new. It was just consequential of us being together. The music I write is different from what Santhosh has been doing. Though we have parallels, we have our own influences. Right now, I try and search for new things. I don’t ramble on my past.
 
