Lucknow: Getting a marriage registered is a click away for couples. With the process going online, there is no need for a lawyer or middleman in the tehsil office to get a marriage certificate. 

 The government recently started the Aadhaar-based online facility for the process it is working to make mandatory.
 
 State   for law and justice Brajesh Pathak said, “The law commission has already recommended making   mandatory and we are working on it.”
 
 Anyone can log on to igrsup.gov.in to get a marriage registered. The applicant couple (both husband and wife) must have an Aadhaar number with their cell phone numbers. After filling the form, a one-time password would be sent for access to the payment gateway.
 
 Once the payment (Rs 10 within the first month of marriage and Rs 20 if more than 30 days have passed) is acknowledged, a copy of the marriage certificate can be downloaded. Thousands of people have already used the facility successfully. 
 
 The Law Commission of India had recently recommended that marriage registration be made compulsory within 30 days of wedding, with no exemption to any religious community. The panel, which guides government of India on complex legal matters, has also recommended punishment for those who don’t follow the rule besides suggesting severe punishment for those who furnish wrong information.
 
 Camps will be organised to help couples who got married earlier but have no certificate, said an officer in the state law department. Meanwhile, officials said UP is well prepared to implement the order. 
 
 “UP is the only state where an online Aadhaar-based Hindu Marriage Registration System is in place,” Pathak told TOI.
 
 UP deputy director general of Unique Identification Authority of India Reema Singh claimed 100% adult population in the state has an Aadhaar number. “The system came in place about a year ago with the joint effort of stamp and registration department and National Informatics Center,” she said.
 
 “Over 1 lakh people have registered while more than 87,000 have obtained their certificates through it,” said an officer associated with igrsup.gov.in. 
 
 
