PUNE: It is a strange addiction that has kids and teens hooked to cellphones for hours together, foregoing even hunger and thirst. Not to mention their studies and homework, much to the chagrin of their parents. Nothing gives them more kick than fighting imaginary wars or racing cars on mobile phones.

 The affliction without any remedy in sight has  .
 
 Take the case of a 15-year-old whose passion for cars has him playing racing game on his mobile phone all day long, forcing his mother to keep a constant watch on him lest he finds his way to more explicit content on phone. 
 
 In another household, the father of a 14- year-old boy snatched his phone when he found him addicted to games like Clash of Clans, Mini Militia, Hill Climb Racing, Temple Run and Clash Royale at the cost of his studies.
 
 The trend is corroborated by the findings of the latest Tata Consultancy Services’ GenZ Survey 2016-17 which finds that gaming apps are the most popular (64%) web content amongst Pune teens. The survey was carried out by the IT company to get a pulse of the digital habits of school students from class 8-12. According to the survey, instant messaging apps (59%) and educational apps (53%) and entertainment apps (50%) are the other popular app choices among the students in the city.
 
 Deepika Bhargava, a mother of two teenage sons, said, “I see children who are lonely spend more time on their mobile phones. If you poke too much, they tend to talk back, rebel or avoid revealing too much,” she said.
 
 Parents need to be very careful, especially in the initial years, believes Mandar Raravikar, a technology expert. “It’s up to the parents to instil correct habits from the start. In the initial phase of handing a phone to a child, one should be very strict,” he said.
 
 We try to be strict so that our kids do not fall prey to any addiction, said  , father of an eight-year-old girl and a toddler. “Lack of open spaces and prolonged work hours put in by parents mean children hardly have anybody to interact with, apart from their friends in school or neighbourhood. Kids also see their parents glued to phones all the time, so they tend to do the same,” he said.
 
 Sacheen Ratnaparkhi, centre head of Pune TCS said, “Our survey has revealed that gaming apps were found to be the most popular amongst 64% teens in the city. This generation plays a game and wins virtual rewards, which motivates them to move on to the next level”.
 
 Gaming stimulates pleasure centres of the brain, explained psychologist  , advising against its excessive use by children. “Children derive so much pleasure from a game that it becomes an addiction they can live without. Sometimes parents themselves hand the phones to kids to keep them occupied, so kids think it is an acceptable behaviour. It’s better to engage them in other activities like art and sports. This is particularly important in the age group of two to six years,” she said.
 
