MADEKERI:   in   are thinking about introducing one of the   in the world ­ the   ­ if   assure them of its `safety'.

 Why scientific studies, you ask? Here's why: Elephant dung coffee is derived from undigested coffee beans excreted by elephants after they consume coffee plants.
 
 After elephants pass the undigested beans in their excrements, they are harvested, cleaned up and processed into coffee grinds.
 
 The elephant dung coffee is the brainchild of Thailand's Anantara Resorts, who say that the beans are `naturally refined' by the Thai elephants at their Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation.
 
 However, it is now learnt that elephant dung coffee is being discussed among coffee planters in coffee-growing parts of Karnataka, especially Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru.
 
 Developing a premium brand of coffee could fetch an additional income to the coffee growers. Coffee berries in Kodagu ripen between December and February, earlier for Arabica, later for Robusta.
 
 Elephant dung coffee -also called `Black Ivory Coffee' -costs $1,100 (Rs 72,000, approx) per kg, while a cup could cost $50 (Rs 3,300).
 
 Coffee beans harvested from droppings are a huge hit with coffee connoisseurs.Civet cat coffee, made with beans excreted by civet cats, is the most expensive coffee in the world. The civet poop coffee ­ called Kopi Luwak in Indonesia ­ is considered one of the world's most exotic coffees. It costs $3,000 (Rs 1,97,000) per kg, while a cup costs $80 (Rs 5,200).
 
 Elephants consume ripe coffee berries in the coffeegrowing reagions of Karnataka, say planters. In fact, promoting elephant dung coffee would take care of the problem of elephants destroying coffee plantations ­ it would only require people to follow elephants around and observe their poop for undigested coffee beans.
 
 Manoj Kumar, chief conservator of forests (Kodagu) told Bangalore Mirror that there is a need for scientific study in this direction, as it may not mean that the elephant menace would be controlled.
 
 Another forest official said that historically elephants have been living in the coffee-growing regions of the state; and yet, coffee plantations have grown. But using elephant dung coffee would not mean that it would compensate for the damages that the elephants are causing.
 
 A bold planter claimed that he was preparing to send a few such coffee beans for his son in the US as his friends have been asking for them.
 
 However, the bigger question is whether coffee lovers will savour the brew once they know which end of the elephant the beans have come out from.
 
