LUCKNOW:   Swati Singh owes her   to an incident she'd like to forget. 

 It was in July last year that her husband, former UP BJP vice-president Dayashankar Singh, made a crude political reference to BSP chief Mayawati. Dayashankar alleged Mayawati offered party ticket in lieu of money and was worse than sex workers who were more loyal to their customers. The remark triggered an uproar in the   with the opposition demanding Singh's immediate arrest. The BJP reacted quickly and sacked Singh. A day later, Behenji's supporters hit back, demanding that Dayashankar's 'behen-beti" be paraded before them, perhaps as a mark of revenge.
 
 The comments backfired. Swati, a Lucknow University lecturer-turned homemaker, metamorphosed, overnight, into a street-fighter to protect her 12-year-old daughter. The incident thrust her into the hurly-burly of politics and her high-octane activism endeared her to the BJP -- another 'Bharat Mata' fighting a battle for empowerment. Swati's campaign got tremendous leverage.
 
  On Facebook and WhatsApp, she was hailed as the 'Durga', garnering sympathy from across castes and classes, and on the streets of Lucknow, slogans of 'Beti ke samman mein,   maidan mein' rent the air.
 
 Speaking to TOI after being sworn in as minister of state with independent charge, Swati said, "I came this far because of God's grace. Circumstances brought me into politics. I still say that my fight was not for myself, but for all the women who fight for their dignity and empowerment. And I don't want that fight to end with me."
 
 As the BJP nominee from Lucknow's   constituency, Swati's electoral run was not all things rosy. Her work-life balance went awry, and often, she would spend an entire day campaigning, riding the narrow bylanes of her constituency on scooter-back with her brother, because a car would get stuck in a traffic jam. 
 
 "It hasn't been easy. My children are young and still only just getting used to the idea of their mother turning a politician. But the experience has taught me a great deal. What little I've seen of politics in BJP inspires me to work hard. There are very learned people around me and I want to soak in all I can," she said.
 
 The last eight months have also been exhausting, both physically and emotionally. Still calm after being made minister just eight months into starting her political career, Swati said, "God has been grateful. My children and my husband are happy. It's a new experience for all of us."
 
 
