CHENNAI: Having lost the assembly election to the AIADMK twice in a row, the biggest challenge for the new   working president M K   would be to keep cadre morale high.

 Stalin’s first likely task would be to look at strengthening the party by restructuring it.
 
 Much of DMK’s organizational structure is already stacked with Stalin men. With only a few acolytes of his father and DMK patriarch   remaining in the party’s top rung, the DMK working president will take it slow as organizational elections are anyway due only two years from now.
 
 Eventually, he may infuse young and fresh blood into the party, who would help build his support base within the DMK and ensure for him the total loyalty of the rank and file.
 
 A revamp of the organization would aim at empowering leaders who are loyal, result-oriented and youthful.
 
 “Also important to the party are leaders who can manoeuvre and those who have money power, keeping in mind that our main rival is the AIADMK,” said a senior leader. DMK sources, however, said Stalin would take measured steps.
 
 “Stalin should not move too fast so as to send out the wrong signal about a clean-up soon after taking over. But, it is imperative to ensure that ineffective and inefficient workers are removed from party posts,” said a DMK office-bearer based in Chennai and seeking anonymity.
 
 Stalin’s USP would be transparency and democracy. “For instance, when Stalin met chief minister   on Wednesday to discuss issues such as farmers’ distress and jallikattu, hours after he was made DMK working president, he took several leaders along with him.
 
 “Clearly, he wishes to make the party more democratic,” said the DMK leader. Stalin is likely to continue to accord due respect and space for the few Karunanidhi loyalists occupying the top slots in the party. Besides his father and DMK president, general secretary K Anbazhagan, party spokesman T K S Elangovan and principal secretary S Duraimurugan are all likely to remain his mentors. “Stalin will safeguard their interests. He respects them a lot,” said a loyalist, seeking anonymity.
 
 Several seniors like Tuticorin district secretary N Periyasamy, once Karunanidhi contemporaries, have switched loyalties. Veerapandi Arumugam, who passed away in 2012, was Stalin’s loudest critic. But, a major revamp is definitely on the cards for the DMK ahead of the 2019   election.
 
 Stalin is likely to ensure there is none of the rebellion seen in the run up to the 2016 assembly election. The next Parliament election would be a litmus test not just for the DMK but for Stalin’s leadership as well.
 
