BENGALURU: The   and Uttarakhand victories have spurred the   in Congress-ruled   to prepare a ground-plan to wrest the state from their national rival in the 2018 Assembly polls.
 
  “We have gained confidence that we will sweep Karnataka also,” BJP state president BS   said, soon after the results were out on March 11.Yeddyurappa had set a goal of winning 150 of Karnataka’s 224 assembly seats for the BJP, but now he has upped it to 175.
  
  “We have identified candidates who will win 175 seats in 2018. Our national president  , who has now proved that he is a Chanakya, is also conducting a survey through his own methods and he will take the final call on who the election candidates will be,” he said.
  
  Yeddyurappa and other BJP leaders have been raising issues of corruption against chief minister   and his ministers, though no actual proof has been released to members of the public.
  
  “The plan is to keep raising issues and telling people that the   government is corrupt. Finally, it is the image that matters as we have learnt through various elections across the country. We will apply that knowledge in Karnataka also and it will work,” a senior BJP functionary told ET. “Amit Shah has told us that our goal should be Congress-Mukt Bharat and we will do it,” he said.
  
  The BJP is emboldened by the recent additions of dalit leader V Srinivasa Prasad, who was dropped as a minister by Siddaramaiah last year and former minister Kumar Bangarappa, the son of former CM and OBC leader S Bangarappa from the Congress. They are also anticipating the entry of former external affairs minister SM Krishna, who quit the Congress over a month ago. Yeddyurappa called on him at his residence and made him a formal offer to join their party.
  
  “We are systematically chipping away at the Congress votebanks, particularly the dalits and the OBCs who form Siddaramaiah’s AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward castes and dalits) platform,” another BJP leader said. “Given the support that our party got even from the Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, we are confident that Amit Shahji will find the right way to get them onto our side here also,” he added.
  
  The party’s youth wing is also making plans to supplement these efforts. Yuva Morcha state president Prathap Simha said a convention for one lakh youth wing workers will be held in November, to be addressed by Prime Minister  . “We will take on the Congress and send them out,” he said.
  
  The BJP also has an immediate task on hand. By-elections to Congress-held Nanjangud and Gudlupet assembly seats, both in Siddaramaiah’s home ground of Mysuru-Chamarajanagar region, will be held on April 9. Yeddyurappa has been camping in the region, while Siddaramaiah has also been making repeated visits, particularly to Nanjangud, the constituency held by Srinivasa Prasad, who is now standing as the BJP candidate.
  
  “It has become a serious battle of prestige for both parties and will be a curtain-raiser for the 2018 battle,” a Congress leader said. 
