HYDERABAD: Close to 18 lakh cases were booked against two-wheeler riders without helmets in 2016. And bikers paid Rs 27.74 crore in fines for riding without helmets, despite the fine for each offence being a paltry Rs 200 for the first offence. Bikers are by far the largest violators of the Motor Vehicles Act. The offence that came in a far second was driving without a licence - in 2016, police booked 76,539 cases and fined drivers Rs 47 lakh.

 Police have run special drives to enforce the helmet rule but bikers seem content to pay up rather than fall in line. Data from the police department shows that Section 129 of the Motor Vehicles Act, which makes wearing a helmet on a two-wheeler mandatory, was violated the most in 2016 compared to other provisions of the act. Police slowed down the drive after demonetisation on November 8.
 
 Police started cracking down on two-wheeler riders in March 2016. The penalty is for being caught riding without a helmet for the first time was Rs 200, Rs 300 for the second offence, and Rs 500 and a daylong counselling session for the third offence.
 
 Traffic police say that de spite these measures bikers flout the rule. “It was a prolonged drive to enforce wearing of helmets. The special drive was launched in March and continued up to November 8. Some people did start wearing helmets but many preferred to pay the fine. Some two-wheeler riders carry the helmet and wear it when they see a traffic cop,“ said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) A V Ranganath.
 
 Experts said counselling alone is not enough, the fine should be increased. Psychologist Dr S V Nagnath said the fine was too low, which is why bikers did not take the enforcement drive seriously. “They think that most special enforcement drives do not last long. They were sure it would be discontinued, and it was after demonetisation,“ he said.
 
 He said two-wheeler riders think they will lose hair if they wear a helmet. “They are willing to face dust, air and noise pollution but will not wear helmets. Police should point out the safety and health benefits of wearing helmets. Unless people realise this, no special drive will achieve results,“ Nagnath said.
 
 Data from the traffic police show that two-wheelers are involved in 50% of the 5,900 road accidents reported in the city in 2016. Experts in traffic and transport studies said the key for any enforcement drive to be successful is to ensure that self-discipline is inculcated among motorists.
 
 Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University professor P R Bhanu Murthy said research institutes and designers could collaborate to redesign helmets. “Maybe they should look at making them more user-friendly. Helmets should be easy to carry. Also, there should be provision for helmet deposit space in malls, theatres, stores and public places,“ he said.
 
