CHENNAI: In the run up to the  ,   and   are seeking to redefine Centre-state relations by cozying up to each other and promising total cooperation in infrastructure building and projects and schemes co-sponsored by them.

 On Sunday, Union minister   surprised the TN government by bringing his team of bureaucrats to disburse orders for three schemes costing Rs 1,083 crore — which, otherwise, would have taken much coaxing from the state.
 
 A day later Naidu made an unprecedented move by convening a review meeting with the government at the Secretariat, where ministers P   and M C Sampath signed MoUs with the Centre for joint venture projects.
 
 “Centre is extending whatever support that is required by the state,” Thangamani said after a session with Union road transport, highways and ship-ping minister  , where it was decide that the state would get a captive jetty in V O Chidambaranar Port to cater to its coal requirements for its thermal units.
 
 Last week, rural electrification corporation officers flew down to Chennai to sign an memorandum of understanding to provide financial assistance of Rs 85,000 crore for power projects.
 
 However, Venkaiah conveyed that in no uncertain terms that the Centre’s cooperation would depend on the “performance” of the state. 
 
 BJP sources said the AIADMK, which was hounded by I-T raids, would toe its line in the coming days. A senior BJP member said, “We are in good terms with the state and vice versa.” Incidentally, Thangamani called on Prime Minister   on May 8 ostensibly to thank him for the Centre’s “support”.
 
 Moreover, industry minister M C Sampath was in New Delhi recently to sign an MoU with National Highways Authority of India that will see the Centre investing Rs 1,295 crore for the development of multimodal logistics park in Ponneri industrial node near Kamarajar port.
 
 Sampath was all praise for the BJP-led government. “They have given a massive project and we extend our thanks wholeheartedly,” he said, detailing how the scheme would bring down the overall freight costs, reduce vehicular pollution and congestion in Chennai.
 
 Political observers said the bonhomie would continue at least until the presidential polls. Higher education minister K P Anbazhagan’s participation in a clean-up exercise organised by the RSS was also noteworthy, pointed out observers.
 
