NAGPUR: " ", said Dr Sapna Sharma, president,   and Psychotherapists, Nagpur (ACPN). She was speaking at an open seminar called ‘Mission Happiness’ organized by ACPN at Chitnavis centre, Civil Lines, on Saturday.

 ACPN also conducted a seminar on the same theme called ‘What is your choice:  . The seminar was organized to address participants’ queries related to depression. The seminar was divided into three sessions. While noted psychiatrists Dr. Sapna Sharma and Dr Sudhir Bhave delivered lectures in the first two sessions respectively, the last session witnessed a panel discussion in which representatives from sectors of society expressed their views.
 
 Dr. Sharma, during her speech said, “The World Health Organization (WHO) states that one in every five persons suffers depression. Though happiness is supposed to be the most natural thing, it has become a rare occurrence in our lives today. Main objective of this seminar is to not call everything depression. Tagging any sort of unhappiness as depression lessens its authenticity and real victims of depression suffer due to such ignorance.”
 
 “Depression is not an opposite of happiness,” she said emphasizing the fact that one should seek happiness rather than pleasure. She also claimed that material success is important but not fundamental to peace of mind or happiness.
 
 In her speech, Dr Bhave focused more on medicinal aspect of depression. He said, “Depression is a disease, but not incurable. Though it has its roots almost everywhere, a lot of stigma surrounds it. Females are more likely to suffer depression but suicide rates among men are much higher as compared to women."
 
 Replying to a question on symptoms and treatment of depression, he said, “Symptoms include prolonged sadness, loss of weight, appetite, excitement and zest for life and most importantly suicidal thoughts. Treatments include psychotherapy, drugs, electro convulsive therapy, self-help groups and most importantly self-help.”
 
 Third session of panel discussion included panelists namely Dr Sudhir Bhave, Dr Prabodh Yelne, founder, ACPN; Micah Ayub, industrialist; Dr Sapna Sharma and Seema Pagey, joint secretary, ACPN. Panelists discussed issues that cause depression and replied to questions from audience related to handling different situations which trigger depression processes.
 
 Druti Singh, a participant, said “From this seminar, I am taking back positive vibes and how to be responsible for my own happiness. I have also cleared my doubts.”
 
 Dr Sharma ended the event with the quote, “Nobody can help you better than you, yourself, so start having faith in yourself".
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
