NEW DELHI: An advocate’s performance in courts, and not his  , would count for her/his appointment as government lawyer, the   has said dismissing the Bihar government’s plea for a free hand in making appointment of government lawyers.

 The   government engaged attorney general   in addition to standing counsel Shoeb Alam to challenge the Patna High Court’s judgement directing the state to follow the model procedure set by the apex court for appointment of government lawyers for district courts and additional advocates general for Punjab and Haryana. The two states were infamous for appointing dozens of advocates as AAGs merely because of their proximity to politicians.
 
 Rohatgi argued before a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul that the state already has put in place a litigation policy which envisages a process for appointment of government lawyers. “Where will this end? If the HC can direct today how government lawyers should be appointed, tomorrow it would be for public sector enterprises, panchayats and other semi-government organisations,” he said.
 
 With the common knowledge that governments are the biggest litigants, the CJI-headed bench said: “The cases involving the governments were crucial in many aspects touching key areas of governance. A certain degree of competence was required from the advocates to represent the government and render meaningful assistance to the courts. Have some mercy on the courts too. Mere connection with politicians should never be the criteria to appoint an advocate as government lawyer.” 
 
 With these remarks, the SC dismissed the Bihar government’s appeal against the November 17, 2016 judgement of the Patna HC, which had asked the state government to adopt the Punjab and Haryana model dictated by the apex court for selection of government lawyers in Brijeshwar Prasad case last year. 
 
 The SC had also said that though these directions were for Punjab and Haryana, other states would do well to reform their system of selection and appointment of government lawyers to make the same more transparent, fair and objective. The HC had faulted the Bihar litigation policy saying it did not satisfy the criteria of transparent, fair and objective appointment process.
 
 In Brijeshwar Prasad case, the SC had regretted that “the states continue to harp on the theory that in the matter of engagement of state counsel, they are not accountable and that engagement is only professional and/or contractual, hence, unquestionable. It is too late in the bay for any public functionary or government to advance such a contention leave alone expect this court to accept the same.”
 
