SURAT: Around 10 deer bred at   deer breeding project at Vansda National Park, which is run by the city-based Nature Club Surat ( ) in coordination with the forest department and Maharaja of Vansda, have been released in the jungles of Dang district. 

 This is first time that the park-bred animals have been released in the Dang forest by the NGO to increase the prey base and reduce human-leopard conflict in  . The 10 spotted deer (four males, four females and two fawn) were subjected to a detailed medical examination before their release.
 
 Earlier, the deer were soft released in the four acre enclosure at the park. Before the release, the animals were weaned away from the feed they used to receive at the park. At Vansda park enclosure, they were fed grass and leaves available naturally. After a few months of acclimatization, they were finally released in the Dang forest in March-end and would be under surveillance for a while. 
 
 In the last few years, depletion of ungulates and other animals in the jungles of Dang, forced the leopards to attack livestock and even human beings in the region. Thus, to increase the prey base and restoring food chain in Dang, the NCS initiated the deer breeding project in 2010 on two acre of private land at Vansda National Park. 
 
 The centre was segregated into three enclosures for providing ample space to the deer to move around and three isolation enclosures for keeping the deer when ill. The centre was started with around eight deer procured from Surat and Ahmedabad zoos. It now has 22 deer. The forest department census of 2016 put the population of spotted deer in Navsari division at 122. There is not a single deer in Dang. The 2016 census had put the population of leopard at 18 in Valsad, 48 in Navsari, 43 in Dang and 40 in Surat district. In 2011, Valsad had 21 leopards, Navsari 32, Dang 29 and Surat 30. 
 
 NCS volunteer   told TOI, "Before releasing the deer in Dang forest, we held a series of meetings with the tribal population to create awareness on the need to increase biodiversity and reduce human-animal conflict. We only hope that the 10 deer released in the wild are not killed by the local population. This is a small step towards bridging the food chain in the forest. We will continue to release the park-bred deer in the jungles of Dang to increase the prey base."
 
 
