AHMEDABAD: Two shocking incidents of suicide occurred in the city on Tuesday. A girl,  , 18, who had appeared in class XII board commerce exams, jumped into the   and ended her life from fear of failing in the exams. In the second incident, Pavankumar, 25, a  , committed suicide when his sister went to join the job of a probationary officer in a bank.

 Parin, a resident of   killed herself by jumping into the Sabarmati river from Naranghat near Subhash Bridge.
 
 Sources from the River Front East Police station said Parin, who was known to be a sensitive girl, had appeared in the class XII commerce board exams and feared failure. Results of the exam are to be declared soon.
 
 “We were told by her relatives that she seemed disturbed for the last few days, as she thought she had not fared well in the class XII examination,” said a police source.
 
 Police officials said that on Tuesday Parin had left her house at Nava Vadaj informing that she is going to meet a friend. “However, she committed suicide. We have registered a case of accidental death and are probing the case,” said a police official.
 
 In the other incident, Pavankumar committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at the Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB) guest house in Shahibaug, said police sources. Police suspect that Pavankumar took the extreme step as he was without a job, while his sister had been selected as a probationary officer in a bank in Ahmedabad. 
 
 Madhavpura police officials said Pavankumar’s father, Satpalsinh, works with SIB in Chandigarh.
 
 “Satpalsinh had come to Ahmedabad with his son and daughter, as his daughter was to join her duty on Tuesday as a probationary bank manager,” said a senior police official. They had lodged in the SIB guesthouse.
 
 “On Tuesday, when Satpalsinh took his daughter to the bank for joining duty, Pavankumar hanged himself by tying a bedsheet to the ceiling fan. The incident came to light when Satpalsinh returned at about 12.30pm,” said a police source.
 
