In the second episode of  , the Sarabhai family is seated at the dinner table (present day) when Maya critiques Monisha's weird eating habits, which includes mixing 'kadhi' in chocolate cake and having sambhar with Italian Risotto. They take us back to their difficult journey to Matkadhar Baba's Samadhi. 

 In a flashback, we, yet again, see the bus that is hanging from the cliff. Maya is surprised when Monisha tells her she was taking a nap. She wonders how could someone sleep when their life is in danger. When they question Monisha for tagging Madhu Sudhan bhai along, she innocently replies she got him on board to fill up the seats. This makes everyone upset. When the topic reaches Jasmine, Maya threatens Rosesh she'd never let him marry her. Rosesh gets up to jump out of the bus. 
 
 Back when the family is having dinner, Rosesh professes his 'puppy' love for Jasmine and explains how their love was at first 'sound', not 'sight'. 
 
 In the bus, Monisha pushes her son 'Guddu' (Arnab) out of the bus and informs everyone about the same. Maya and Sahil begin to comment about how their funeral will play out. Meanwhile, the Sarabhai family informs us how Arnab got some nearby villagers to save them.
 
 However, Indravadhan gets stuck in the window of the bus as he tries to get out on his own. Rosesh asks him for a picture. Just in case he dies, they would have the latest one for his obituary in the newspaper. An irritated Indravahdan enacts Rosesh's poetry as a title to go with his photo. This leaves both Monisha (Roopali Ganguly) and Rosesh impressed, and they go 'wow'.
 
  
  
 Maya gathers the villagers and begins her 'Monisha Murdabad Andolan' all over again, making fun of Monisha's middle class acts. It is told to us that their journey wasn't an easy feat. They had to take the laxman jhoola across the river. While Indravadhan and Madhu bhai cross the river without any trouble, an overconfident Rosesh gets struck as one of the wooden plank falls. Sahil comes to his aid. When Maya scolds Monisha about the wooden bridge and how weak it seems, Monisha illustrates its strength by jumping on it, prompting Maya to call a lawyer to get Sahil a divorce from Monisha.
 
 Rosesh thinks of Jasmine when he feels he'd die. Maya calls him a backstabber, and praises Monisha instead. Somehow, Sahil manages to pull Rosesh out and they all reach the 'samadhi'. Monisha hilariously teaches Maya baba ji's favourite dance move, much to Maya's dismay. And that is how the family fulfills Monisha's Mannat.
  
 
