AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Wednesday sought a reply from government authorities, Gujarat   and the caretaker of the   in Patan, to a PIL seeking directions that women be permited to enter the sanctum of the shrine.

 After issuing notice, a bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi scheduled further proceedings on the matter for March 1.
 
 Denied entry to the shrine, the two women petitioners – Deepika Shinde and Alfia Lacewala — filed the PIL and senior counsel Deven Parikh argued that excluding women from a religious place is a clear violation of Articles 14, 15, 25 and 26, which guarantee equality and freedom to practice and propagate religion. The famous case of Mumbai’s   was also cited.
 
 The petitioner submitted that they were compelled to approach the HC because repeated representations before the state government, Patan district collector, mamlatdar, Gujarat Wakf Board, the trust that manages the shrine and its caretaker Jamaluddin Faruki went unanswered for eight months.
 
 This shine in Patan has been mired in controversy for the last few years. This is due to the struggle for control of the management between the Sunni and Shia sects. For centuries, the shrine has been managed by people of the Sunni sect of Islam. They believe that Maulana Mehboob, who was a Sunni, is buried here. Members of the Dawoodi Bohra community of the Shia sect, on the other hand, believe that it is a shrine of Maulana Yaqub, who belonged to their community.
 
 In 2011, there was conflict between the caretakers and members of Bohra community for entry into the shrine and police complaints were lodged in this regard in Patan. Muslims in Patan even took to the streets accusing the Wakf Board of taking bribes to snatch the management from the Sunnis.
 
 As the controversy grew, government authorities took over shrine’s administration and locked it up. The trust and caretakers moved the HC, which ordered the removal of locks and permitted people to enter the shrine. The trust and caretaker even questioned the role of Wakf Board and the revenue department, which were accused of changing revenue entries by removing Maulana Mehboob’s name and entering Maulana Yaqub’s name in the revenue records.
 
 
