KOLKATA: Five key persons of a Bihar-based gang, that was allegedly behind several robberies, including the one at a city branch of  , have been arrested after a month-long investigation and another month of trailing by the sleuths. The invesigating team comprised of officials from the Barrackpore detective department, the state CID and Baranagar Police.

 According to a police officer, the gang was nabbed from a Vizag hotel and the adjoining RK Beach, where they had converged to plan their next heist. The main accused though managed to give cops the slip. Efforts are on to trace him.
 
 Those arrested have been identified as — Thakur Anurag Kumar Singh alias Jacky, Sunny Kumar Singh, both hailing from Bihar, Sasanth Singh, Manoj Kumar and Mukesh Prasadwas. While Sasanth and Manoj were arrested from Pusapatirega in Vizianagaram district, Mukesh was nabbed at Rajahmundry.
 
 The gang was involved in looting 32kg   from the Dunlop branch of Manappuram Finance on December 30 last year. This prompted the CID to ask financial institutions to beef up their security. With these arrests, eight persons have been nabbed so far in connection with the Kolkata heist.
 
 Police from Maharashtra and Delhi are likely to converge in Kolkata to question the accused who are being brought back to the city on transit remand.
 
 Some foreign made weapons and cars have been recovered from the accused. Among the weapons recovered were five automatic .32 foreign-made pistols, one country-made tamancha, 80 rounds of .32 cartridges and six rounds of 9mm cartridges. “We have made some important arrests and recovered items. But this is an ongoing operation, we would not elaborate on it now,” said DC DD (Barrackpore) Ajay Thakur.
 
 The gang, mostly comprising youths from Bihar and some locals from the states they targeted, has been looting gold and cash from the offices of  , Manappuram Finance and few others banks and jewellery shops in the city.
 
 According to police, the modus operandi of the gang is intricate. Its members move to a tier-1 city, close to a metropolitan city. They then rent a house in the Metro, buy a two-wheeler or a car to conduct several recces of the targeted financial institution. Next, they drew up alternate routes considering police check points and then strike. The gang disposed of the looted gold in Nepal. “They confessed they prefer such financial institutions as their security is always miminal compared to bank branches,” said an officer.
 
 A source said the main accused, Kumar Gaurav alias Subodh Singh, is hiding in Bihar. He has several cases pending against him in Bengal, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
 
