BENGALURU:  , the   gold medallists who were catapulted to limelight after the release of Aamir's movie Dangal, will soon anchor the wrestling ambitions of Bengaluru. Geeta and Babita Phogat will get two acres of land in Nandi Hills where they will open a wrestling academy.

  K Sudhakar promised the sisters, who were in Bengaluru on Saturday to attend a self-defence and yoga camp, to allocate land for setting up the academy. “Women should be respected. We need to instil confidence in our women instead of telling them how to dress or behave. Change the way our boys think; women cannot be victims anymore. The system will always support you but the first to come to your rescue is yourself. We want to strengthen women mentally and physically,” said the MLA during the inauguration of the camp by Akshar Yoga and Matru Trust on Palace Grounds.
 
 Geeta and Babita joined the inauguration of the yoga camp as early as 6am. An inspiration to many, the duo were excited about running an academy in the IT city. “I have been to Bengaluru in the past, but setting up an academy is so exciting. I am glad we will take women’s wrestling beyond Haryana,” Geeta said.
 
 On Saturday morning, over 3,000 women came together to gather more physical strength by punching, blocking and kicking, under the guidance of Himalayan Yogi Akshar. Speaking to women at the camp, Babita Kumari Phogat said, “For my sister and me, fighting eve-teasers has been a routine since childhood. I am happy that more and more women in Bengaluru are getting themselves trained in basic self-defence.” 
 
 “Not just women, even men and children can practice some self-defence techniques that would come handy when attacked unaware. All men are not fighters by birth, they just have extra strength. But if you look closely, there is no difference between you (women) and them. All that’s needed is continuous training,” Akshar told the participants. “No one has the right to touch you or attack you and it is definitely your right to fight back. Self-defence will take a lot of practice but it will never fail you if you are confident and ready to tackle any attack,” he added.
 
 Aarthi Upadhyay, a homemaker and yoga enthusiast, was eager to get back home and try some of the moves with her husband as a volunteer. “I am not sure if he will agree, but whatever I have learnt here must be practised. Such opportunities are rare and I already feel so confident,” said Aarthi.
 
 Shyam Rao, a software professional, came along with his wife and their eight-year-old daughter to the camp. While he had an option to sit it out and watch his family train, he decided to give them a little encouragement. “I knew this camp was exclusively for women but there wasn’t any restriction for men. I thought it would be nice to help my wife train. Neither of us have any experience with martial arts or self-defence, so it makes sense that we both learn something,” Shyam said. 
 
 
