HYDERABAD:   is happy to be back for IPL. Not for him the trappings of championship glory. That's just a tag, he said. With the 10th edition already underway, his thoughts are focused on minimising the mistakes of last year. That they started with a win against the   in the opener was good, but he was fully aware of the tougher challenges ahead. 
 
  We lost a couple of games last season, but to get the ball rolling was fantastic. We had the right balance, the right team was chosen. Having a few extra bowling options helps as well. For us to beat RCB, yes, they had a lot of injuries, but they're a very good team regardless of who is playing for them. Look at our bowling, we didn't have  , but   is a genius. Add Nehra with his experience and we've got a really good line-up but we need to execute it well.

 
 I didn't know that he wasn't going to be here till I landed. I think the whisper was that he was going to be with us in Mumbai but I think there's a few visa issues. Once that's all sorted we'll have more clarity. Rashid and Fizz have unique bowling actions. They create suspense, it's very hard to pick at night. We've got good Indian bowling stocks as well. Your concern comes when you get a very good wicket to bat on. n
 
 
 To be honest, since we left last year after we won, I had a week with my family before we went to play. I looked back at what we did right and where we can improve. I didn't think anything about it till I landed the other day. If you think about things too much, it's like your own game, then you start playing these thoughts in your mind. You can't change these things. I always like to talk to guys off the bench.
 
 
 It's always very good to have that confidence. But it's not just about starting well, it's about being consistent. We know what a world class player   is, his natural strokeplay was outstanding. On weight of expectations: There's no pressure. We are defending champions but last year no one was talking about us after the first two games. We just flew under the radar and played the way we did. Each individual had his plans. Last year, more individuals played a role, one or two in every game. We've got to improve this year when we get that opportunity. That's just a tag, it's great to be defending champions but we want to play the way we do, keep calm and everything will pan out the way we want it to.
 
 On his role in auction: I had a couple of conversations with the chairman. The main thing for me was we needed a leg. spinner. Everyone was going for big marquee players. The good thing is we've got your stock. To see two Afghanistan players come into our line-up is fantastic. Rash and Nabs are unbelievable players in their own right. And they bring a dynamic to our team. I'm sure at one stage they both might be used at the same time. For us it's about minimising too many personnel, having too many options and keeping the right players.
 
 
 
 
 "I had a chat with Virat the other night. We're still friends, thankfully. I had a text conversation with him too, which was very nice of him. We all got jobs to do. That's just how the game is but away from the field, we're all very good friends. Sometimes on the field, we can take it too seriously and because of the emotion for the next hour might be thinking I don't like him anymore but for us, we're all going to be friends. Everything takes care of itself. It's a friendly environment, especially IPL and world cricket. And we just love playing the game and making sure everyone is smiling.
 
