NOIDA: A large number of residents of   were jubilant at BJP candidate Tejpal Nagar’s victory in the assembly election, but the Muslim areas of the village wore a deserted look.

 Hariom Pradhan, husband of village head Kaushalya Devi, said the entire village had voted for BJP. “We had a BSP MLA who had won the past two elections but he never visited the village. There was no development during his tenure. Bisada’s residents needed a change and voted for BJP’s Nagar,” Hariom said.
 
 He said the personal appeal by Union home minister Rajnath Singh, during his visit to Bisada, also worked in the candidate’s favour.
 
 There were four polling booths in Rana Sangram Singh Inter-College, where a total of 4,639 voters are registered. The village polling centre recorded 72.48% voting against the 60.22 % assembly average.
 
 However, there was no sign of celebration in the Muslim areas. Some Muslim residents said that they had not expected such a one-sided voting. “We are yet to understand how there was a clean sweep for BJP. But since the results have been declared, one can’t do anything. We hope the BJP delivers on the development model it has promised,” a Muslim resident said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Other Muslims joined him in saying the residents had moved on from the Mohammad Akhlaq murder on the night of September 28, 2015. “While our lives go on, there is a definite sense of alienation. I feel this alienation will only intensify with the BJP win,” one Muslim resident said. A member of Akhlaq’s family said, “This is the people’s mandate. I do not want to comment on it.”
 
 When TOI asked the victorious candidate, Tejpal Nagar, about the Akhlaq murder case, he said that the law was taking its course and justice would be meted out. “I shall work for the development of people. I shall visit Bisada and get roads, schools and colleges built, especiallyn because I am a teacher by profession,” Nagar said.
 
 Mangal Sharma, a resident, said that Nagar lived in the neighbouring Aakalpur village. “He is available to us any time. When he was a member of the Zila Panchayat, he had initiated some development work. Now we hope he will do more of it.”
 
 Meghraj Singh, another Bisada resident, said the previous MLA hardly visited the village. “He never came to us for any occasion. There was the Akhalq murder case and several youths were arrested. One of them also died in judicial custody. As a representative of the area, he should have visited the people and ensured justice. But he did not do so. The local people felt aggrieved and voted against BSP,” he said.
 
 Several residents said there was just one government inter-college in the village. “We want a government degree college in Bisada. The people need a barat ghar, an ITI College and a playground. We hope Nagar delivers on these fronts,” said Ram Gopal Singh.
 
 
