The   show starts with Dr.   ( ) walking in to a decked up stage, yelling so that the others would get up. On hearing him scream, Sarla, Chandu and Nani come in. As the clock strikes twelve, they start singing the Happy Birthday song and Sarla is as happy as ever on getting the surprise. Sarla calls out for Bumper to get a knife to cut the cake, but his notorious act leaves everyone stunned. Bumper walks in, cuts the cake and eats it all himself. Later, he irks Sarla by telling Mr. Gulati that he is proud of him to take care of a girl like Sarla, who doesn't have any brain of her own for so long.
 
  Dr. Gulati later announces a grand party in the celebration of his daughter's birthday and promises to invite all big Bollywood stars including Mr. Bachchan. Nani and Bumper mock him and leave for their rooms.
  
  Later, at the party while Nani is busy talking to the audience about how Dr. Gulati just fooled them by boasting about his big contacts, she hears   talks in the background and is stunned to see him in front of her eyes. One by one, the party has a lot of stars including  ,   and   enter. Though they are not the original stars, but their doppelgangers who rib tickle the audience leaving them in splits. Nani and Mr. Bachchan also indulge in a romantic dance on 'Dekha ek khwab toh ye silsile huye'.
  
  Once again Sarla brings her cake, but Bumper intrudes and eats away to cake before she could even hold the knife in her hand. The stage gets chaotic as the characters throw cake at each other and leave.
  
  Kapil Sharma walks in amid a thunderous applause. The host of the show introduces hi guests for the night, which is none other than the director-producer duo who launch him in his first film -  . As they enter the sets, Navjot Singh Sidhu says that they remind him of veteran actor  . They came on the show to promote their upcoming film Machine.
  
  When Abbas Mustan sit with Kapil, he asks them to guess whose shirt is more white? This brings a smile on their faces and the audience can't stop laughing. They tell Kapil that the shade of white of their clothes varies at times, and when they go abroad, they wear sweaters of any colour. Kapil also questions Abbas' wife if she is able to recognise her husband from a distance if all three brothers are standing together, and her response was hilarious.
  
  Abbas is launching his son   Burmawalla with this film opposite Kiara Advani and the couple also share a bath tub scene, which raises a query in Kapil's mind. He asks them why didn't they do a tub scene with him, to which the director replies, "In this film, there is just one actress, and you had four leading ladies in your and it would have been difficult to fit in four ladies along with you in a tub." The audience is quite surprised with his wit and starts laughing.
  
  Sunil Grover entertains the audience with his gimmick as Navjot Singh Sidhu. He does his act dressed in all white clothes just like Abbas-Mustan. Kiku walks in as a lion and enthrals the audience with his poetic skills.
  
  Kiara Advani and Mustafa also come on the stage dancing to the song 'Tu Cheez Badi Hai Mast Mast' and Kapil shakes a leg with them too.
  
  All of them shared laughter, indulged in talking to the audience and had the time of their lives on the show. Kapil kept the audience entertained with his funny questions and the director duo also shared their experiences with some of the biggest stars of all time.
