Motherhood and bike riding – that’s a socially awkward pair. But only because we haven’t seen many women smashing the two roles with equal vigor and boldness. We say that there’s nothing stronger than the act of delivering a child, we believe that no one has more strength than a mother, we call India ‘Bharat Mata’, but heroising is one thing; realizing is another. A bold step taken in this direction – Ladies of Harley is breaking all stereotypes by bringing together women riders who are also mothers. This mother’s day, we bring together the stories of three such women who are doubling as mothers and riders. And so, it is not doubling anymore.
 
 Amanda Brown, a Delhi-based business woman and mother of one; Sheetal Shah, a full-time dental practitioner and a mother of two; and Sunita Kunjeer, a 40-year-old mother to two teenagers, are as well and above all, passionate riders. Here’s what they shared with us.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 All three women got the motivation to ride at a young age. “My love for motorcycles started at a very early age while I was in class 8. A friend of mine happened to pull up beside me while I was out walking my dogs. Curiosity of wanting to try something new paved the path for a new found love for riding motorcycles,” shared Amanda. For Sunita, it started as a need to drive to college every day and now she has ended up with being the chapter director of the recently launched Ladies of Harley. While for Sheetal, it happened only after her marriage when she was taught riding by her husband. Reasons were different but once they learnt flaring their riding suits in all glory and feeling the fresh gust of wind on their faces, there was no looking back.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The three women were never short of love and support from their families and in fact, got nothing but only motivation from them. Amanda said, “A biking suit never judges, nor does the biking fraternity.” Sunita said that the thing that she took along after her marriage to her in-laws was a, stereotype-breaking, bike. 
 
 When they delivered children and became mothers, it sure did give them a sabbatical from bike-riding but they were back at it again. “I severed my left Achilles' tendon in 2013 and as soon as I was back to rocking my high heeled boots and was confident again, my son was just the right age to ride Pillion. I decided it was time to get back on a bike... My own bike,” said Amanda. Sunita, after her post-delivery sabbatical, tied her son with her on a sling and went for a scooty ride on the nearby roads of Pune. Now, all three take their sons and daughters to places wherever they say.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Celebrate the person you are. Celebrate the person you'd like to be. Celebrate the people who support and encourage you to be the ‘Real You’.
 
 
 You have lived your life enough on other people’s terms. Now, live it for yourself. There’s nothing comparable to the feeling of being on your own wheels, riding and cutting the wind.
 
 
  Life doesn’t come with a manual, it comes with a mother! Happy Mother’s Day to all!
 
