MUMBAI: Two years after introducing   in first language and maths for  , the   has decided to include science in the exam to improve the state’s performance at the national level. From this year, students of classes III to V from the vernacular medium will also have to take the tests in English subject.

 According to a government resolution issued by the  , previous learning-level tests found that the state’s performance in science and mathematics was not up to the mark in the national achievement survey (NAS) and the annual status of education report ( ). 
 
 The state also plans to give importance to children’s competency in English, so students with English as their third language will have to take the test in the subject. Three tests – one baseline test and two summative exams will test students on their concepts in the respective subjects.
 
 Teachers will have to upload the students’ marks on a mobile application that will help the state evaluate the data. “There have been instances of schools either inflating the results or under reporting it. But, the quality of education will improve only when the real learning levels are known. To ensure there are no malpractices, a supervising official must visit a school on the day of the exam and also check the evaluation of others on a later day,” said Nandkumar, secretary of the education department. Teachers will be issued a memo if discrepancies are found in the reporting of marks.
 
 The initiative is part of the state’s Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra programme. On the basis of the students’ performance in the learning level tests, schools are categorized as successful or unsuccessful. Schools have to identify students with poor performances and help them improve their skills. 
 
 However, school principals are not happy. “Most schools are conducting the tests for the sake of it. There is no seriousness and several students also get access to the papers ahead of the exams. There is no order in the way these exams are conducted. This is only additional burden to schools,” said the principal of an ICSE school.
 
 The students’ performance in learning level tests will be a critical area in the performance appraisal report of teachers, principals and local education officials.
 
 Teachers will have to upload students’ marks on a mobile app that will help the state evaluate the data. To ensure there’s no malpractice, a supervising official must visit the school on the exam day
 
 
