 is on the threshold of a new, perhaps bigger beginning in Bollywood. The actress, who was initially treated like an outcast — by her own admission — has finally started finding acceptance in the industry. In an exclusive interview with BT, she talks about her journey, her husband doubling up as her business partner, and why even “just a song” in Shah Rukh Khan’s ' ' means so much to her...

 
 
 I didn’t see it as acceptance, but I did realise that for all those people who said not-so-nice things about me, they cannot take this moment away from me. I was told, ‘No one wants to work with you, Sunny’ and ‘You are not going anywhere. You have a couple of years here and then you have to go back’. I know that it’s just a song in 'Raees', but for whatever it’s worth, it means so much to me that somebody like Shah Rukh, who is loved and respected all over the world, let me be a part of his movie. It’s such a proud moment for me. 
 
 
 
 Totally. Over the last 10 months, a lot of amazing things have happened. So many people are nicer, generous and supportive of me. 
 
 
 
 They (the makers) called my husband ( ). We were in the car. I knew something good was going on from the huge smile on Daniel’s face. He got off the phone and said, ‘Shah Rukh Khan wants you to be in one of the songs in his film’. I asked him, ‘They were calling me! Are you sure or is it a wrong number?’ I even wondered if Shah Rukh knew about the call. I was in shock because of a few things that had happened around that time. It was blow after blow and all of a sudden, this amazing call came. It was a dream-come-true for me. 
 
 
 
 Yes. I would constantly tell myself, ‘Don’t trip over, don’t run into something, make sure you know the steps’. But Shah Rukh makes you feel comfortable. I remember how warm he was when I met him years ago at a film premiere. He went out of his way and greeted us, saying, ‘Hi Sunny, Hi Daniel. How are you?’ And, I was like, ‘He remembers my name!’ He is charismatic. His presence, confidence and the way he looks, makes him attractive. My parents also used to love him.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I don’t know if people would want to know about my life, but it’s not my plan right now. It will take a lot of time and patience, which I don’t have at the moment. Maybe, later...
 
 
 
 Daniel and I were brought together for a reason. God took away my parents, but gave me Daniel. He is my everything. For some reason, we click when it comes to business. We disagree on a lot of things that are business-related, but we sort them out through healthy debates. I am a headstrong Punjabi who likes to give her opinion, which is sometimes not even rational. 
 
 
 
 If it’s about personal issues, I do (laughs)! If it’s business-related, we usually come to an agreement. 
 
 
 
 Every star should be active on all platforms as much as possible.   is amazing with fashion and clothes and I like the way she uses social media. I am a product of social media; I was able to build my brand and career because of it. I believe that artistes coming into the industry should use it to build their fan base. 
 
 
 
 We don’t know what he’s going to do. But my husband said something interesting: ‘We can’t wish for him to do bad, we can only wish for him to do good.’ US has never had a President who’s not been a part of politics. He is the one President about whom everything’s out on the table. It’s better to know than not knowing. Is he the greatest person? Probably not. What we do know is the majority of the country voted for Trump for a reason.
 
 
 
 Adult material is a very personal thing and to each his own. Having said that, facts are facts; you can’t escape them. 
 
  
  
 
 
