CHENNAI: For most chronic   patients, the sporadic use of life-saving  , due to its prohibitive cost, is often the biggest threat. Some also agree to reuse disposables several times. 

 The theme for   this year is 'obesity and its association with kidney disease', but doctors are pushing for 'Make in India' products including dialysers and disposables. 
 
 "It's important to prevent kidney diseases, but right now we have too many patients who need cheaper dialysis," said nephrologist Dr Georgi Abraham of Madras Medical Mission.
 
 Recently, Sri Ramachandra University announced it has collaborated with   Technology to develop an indigenous membrane a disposable for use in dialysis. It is the first phase and will help reduce dialysis cost, vice-chancellor Dr J S N Murthy said. 
 
 Chronic kidney disease, or end-stage renal disease, is a progressive loss of kidney function over time. The nephrons are damaged and the kidney can no longer filter toxins from the blood; patients may require dialysis where a machine purifies the blood at least three times a week. Dialysis, if not subsidised by NGOs, costs between 1,900 and 4500 a sitting. While disposables and medicines, almost all imported from Germany, cost around 1,500, the running cost ranges from 500 to 3,000. At  , it costs 2,500. 
 
 "We don't reuse disposables because there are risks of infection. We subsidise cost if patients can't afford it," said nephrologist Dr  .
 
 People with kidney failure pay at least 10 lakh from the time of diagnosis to transplant. "Cost of dialysis is at least 30,000 a month. On an average a patient with kidney failure spends 50 lakh if they don't have an insurance," he said. Many clinics also offer home dialysis for 20,000 a month. 
 
 The dialysis cost in India is the lowest, but many doctors feel it can be cheaper if equipment is locally manufactured. "A dialysis machine costs at least 5 lakh and we can run it at best for about six years. If we have a local manufacturer the cost will come down. Only one Indian company manufactures dialyser. It's cheaper when compared to other products but competition within will bring down the price further," said Dr Abraham. 
 
 A 69-year-old patient, retired school teacher John Antony, says he has agreed to a hospital's decision to reuse the dialyser up to six times despite the risk of infections and side-effects as it was cheaper by 800. 
 
