NEW DELHI: Chief minister   will be reallocating work in his cabinet in order to focus on areas which the AAP government has marked out as its priorities. Deputy chief minister   will get tourism from social welfare minister  . Sisodia is likely to be relieved of the charge of the critical revenue department and registrar of cooperative societies.

 While revenue now is likely to be the responsibility of law and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, the responsibility of registrar of cooperatives societies will be handed over to Rajendra Gautam.
 
 The reshuffle of portfolios comes with a plan to make rural Delhi intrinsic to the government’s development plan and also give Delhi’s global appeal an impetus through tourism. Education and health will continue to be the main development concerns of the Kejriwal government. When AAP came to power, maximum work was divided between Sisodia and Satyendra Jain. Now Gahlot is being projected as the party’s strong rural face and Sisodia the man in the driver’s seat who is leading key initiatives to showcase the government’s performance. In the months ahead, tourism will emerge as an important focus area to showcase Delhi.
 
 Sisodia’s current list of portfolios include education, finance, planning, revenue, land and building, vigilance, services, women and child development, registrar of cooperative societies and all other departments not specifically allotted to any other minister. The revenue department will be a major boost to Gahlot’s profile. He is holding charge of law, transport, administrative reforms and information and technology. 
 
 His new responsibility will place him at the fore front of AAP’s plan to strengthen its base in rural Delhi. Gahlot represents Najafgarh in the assembly, and since his induction in the cabinet, he has been described as Kejriwal’s choice for being the face of rural Delhi in the government. Land reforms under the revenue department pertaining to gram sabha land and lal dora among others will be a big focus area now.
 
 In May, when Gahlot and Gautam were inducted into the cabinet, Sisodia’s departments of law department, information technology and administrative reforms were given to Gahlot besides transport, which was till then looked after by  . The decision to take away these portfolios from Sisodia was justified by sources in the CM’s office on the ground that Sisodia wanted to focus more closely on education reforms. Kejriwal had also handed over the portfolios of water, social welfare and SC/ST department to Gautam, who represents Seemapuri in the assembly.
 
 Jain will continue to hold six portfolios — health, home, power, urban development, industries and PWD. Gopal Rai’s profile too will remain unchanged with labour, employment, development, general administration and flood and irrigation. After the municipal polls, Rai was made AAP& Delhi convener.   will continue to be in charge of food and civil supplies, environment and forests and elections.
 
