NEW DELHI: There was a sense of satisfaction and triumph among the probe team on Friday as the   upheld the death sentence of four convicts in the  .

 Then   was ecstatic. “The efforts have paid. I feel very happy that the Supreme Court has appreciated the quality of our investigation. With no clues in hand initially, we managed to trace the bus, arrest the culprits from Naxalite-affected areas and solve the case within 72 hours,” he told TOI.
 
 “Those were tough times,” said an emotional Dharmendra Kumar on Friday after the verdict. Kumar was special commissioner (law and order) when the horrific incident took place.“The honourable Supreme Court praised the manner in which irrefutable evidence was adduced by Delhi Police. I am grateful for this verdict. Those were tough times...We were handling massive demonstrations during the day and at night, we went through the investigations and finalised the affidavits, which we filed in the courts on a daily basis. Mr Neeraj Kumar (then commissioner) went through every bit of the chargesheet,” he added.
 
 Chhaya Sharma, then DCP (south), called it a team effort and said the role of every member was important in the case. Pramod Kushwaha, former additional DCP (south), was instrumental in drafting the chargesheet and handling the legal affairs. On Friday, he was quite emotional.
 
 “For us, the objective was clear: to establish the truth and to document it without any errors so that the culprits are brought to book. It was a multifaceted investigation, which required us to give our 100% and I am glad we did,” added Kushwaha.
 
 Then STF chief Rajender Singh said seniors had shown faith in them. “I am thankful to god that we did not let them down.”
 
 Anil Sharma, then SHO of Vasant Vihar, said he was left devastated as he saw Nirbhaya breathe her last in Singapore. He narrated how he tried to strike a conversation with the victim on the flight to Singapore and later in the hospital. 
 
 “She had tremendous willpower. I asked what she liked doing in her free time and she said watching TV. I said I will get you a TV tomorrow,” Sharma added. 
 
 The police brass has also acknowledged the efforts of other team members, including inspectors Aishveer Singh, Hira Lal, Gagan Bhaskar, Neeraj Choudhary, K P Malik, Rituraj, Ram Sahay and Pratibha.
 
 
