Trichy: Following the   complaint by 18 track maintaining women employees working in Mayiladuthurai at Trichy railway division against a senior section engineer (SSE) — their immediate superior — the divisional personnel officer has summoned nine complainants to appear before an inquiry committee on Monday at 3 pm.

 However, a section of railway employees opined that the letter seemed awkward as the official who had issued the order to the victims had also sent the same to the accused himself asking to relieve the victims from duty on that particular day to facilitate them to appear before the inquiry committee.
 
 The 18 women employees had presented a petition to higher officials alleging ‘bonded slavery of sexual nature’ against a senior section engineer of Mayiladuthurai at Trichy railway division. The petition, signed by 18 women track maintainers, stated that they were often subjected to verbal, emotional and sexual harassment by Manivannan, 53, the SSE, at the workplace.
 
 On the basis of their complaint the assistant personnel officer of Trichy division, K Padmanabhan, has sent a letter to nine employees, including K Babitha, who had elaborated the ordeal that she had undergone with her senior in the complaint, asking them to appear before the committee of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, official sources said.
 
 The committee comprising four members is headed by Dr Laxmi, deputy chief medical superintendent of Trichy division. Divisional personnel officer, divisional commercial manager, and a member other than railway employee form the other part of the committee.
 
 Meanwhile, a section of railway employees opined that without suspending or relieving Manivannan from the present position, the inquiry would not serve its purpose.
 
 “Employees may fear to give their statement against their immediate superior. So the inquiry should be conducted after suspending or transferring him from the existing position,” opined D Manoharan, deputy general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union (DREU).
 
 Moreover, leave up to a period of 90 days may be granted to an aggrieved female railway servant on the recommendations of the internal committee or the local committee during the pendency of inquiry under sexual harassment of women at workplace act 2013, and the leave granted to the aggrieved female railway servant under this rule shall not be debited against the leave account, Manoharan added.
 
 
