AHMEDABAD: It is a cloth banner, about 3 ft by 3.5ft in size with its message handwritten in English and Japanese on both sides.  , 60, founder of several social service institutions, said the banner had been with him for around 10,000 km out of the 17,000-km-journey on his Walk for Peace between October 2, 1982 and August 6, 1986. 

 The banner was returned to him on February 20 by  , an American who had walked with him to Nagasaki. Kumar had given the banner to Ingoldsby as a mark of their freindship when their journey ended about 30 years back.
 
  Recalling his mission for peace, Kumar said the starting date of his journey on foot was the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the second, Hiroshima Day, the date on which an atomic bomb was dropped on the Japanese city in 1945.
 
 He used to walk with the banner written in the local language of all the countries he passed through along the way. Children and youth used to write on it. Kumar used to urge local people to join him, whether it was just for one step or one day.
 
  Ingoldsby, who is now 67 years old , is a former businessman. He recalled that he first met Kumar in April 1986 outside Santa Barbara. 
 
 “Prem had taken a vow not to carry money with him and live by others’ generosity and love,” Ingoldsby said. “He was referred to us by a contact. He was to stay with us for two days.” But in those two days something changed Ingoldsby. 
 
 “I was impressed by his resolve and intention and decided to accompany him on the rest of the journey,” Ingoldsby said.
 
 Their friendship flourished in the following months and Kumar completed the walk to Nagasaki along with Ingoldsby and his wife. It was an emotional moment for all of them. Kumar decided to give Ingoldsby the banner which had been with him all through his travels in the US and the UK. Doug said that it was a touching moment.
 
 “I kept this memento with utmost care at my home for 30 years,” Ingoldsby said. “Prem got married to a Japanese girl and was blessed with three beautiful daughters.” 
 
 He further said that this was his 11th visit to India as he was associated with many of Prem’s projects and walks here. “Prem’s historic walk crops up frequently in our conversations,” Ingoldsby said.
 
 Ingoldsby said he loved the banner and had even risked his life for it — he had darted into his house to rescue it when a fire broke out there. “But it rightfully belongs to Prem’s children,” Ingoldsby said.
 
 Nyasha P Kowone, 19, Prem’s daughter, said they had heard so much about the walk and the banner that it was only when they held it that they understood its message. “It somehow completes the narrative and it’s very precious, reminding us of the meaning of peace and struggles waged for it. We are indebted to Ingoldsby for the gesture,” she said.
 
