NAGPUR: By winning 108 seats, the   has for the first time won an election with more than two-thirds majority in the 66-year-old history of the  . In the last four decades no political party has been able to score such a landslide win. More often the winner had to strike post-poll deal to rule the civic body.

 What makes this win more impressive is that till recent times Nagpur was the impregnable fort of the Congress party. Before the Modi wave swept the country in 2014 and   got elected from Nagpur, the BJP had found it hard to win any election. Only once earlier did the Nagpur Lok Sabha seat go to BJP when Banwarilal Purohit won it after switching over from the Congress.
 
 In 1997 the BJP for the first time won the NMC polls going it all alone. It could barely get a working majority and city boy Devendra Fadnavis made his first big mark in politics as the youngest mayor of city. Two decades later, Fadnavis and his senior colleague Nitin Gadkari have catapulted the party to a new high not only in Vidarbha but entire state, including Mumbai.
 
 The stunning win silenced not only all the faction-ridden opposition but also the dissent and so-called rebellion within the BJP as the Fadnavis-Gadkari juggernaut rolled on in the city. The Congress and all other parties put together with independents had to be content with just 43 seats this time while the BJP easily crossed its maiden century.
 
 “We won on development plank. All through our campaign we focused on developmental issues. There was absolutely no negativity and criticism of others. We spoke of our strengths and vision of progress under Modi’s leadership. People voted for us looking to our capacity to carry on development work we initiated,” said Gadkari.
 
 Fadnavis had told ToI in a special interview on Saturday that the BJP win this time would be unprecedented. It was just that. Fadnavis doing his bit for the city as chief minister and Gadkari with his dynamic leadership bringing in benefits from the centre were seen as best bet Nagpur voters. 
 
 The cement roads network, new Ring Road, Metro railway, big fillip given to Mihan project with potential to generate 50,000 jobs, transforming city into education hub of global standards and promise of much more to do and develop Nagpur as smart-model city have made the big win possible for the BJP.
 
 “Right from the day the civic poll schedule was announced, there was never a doubt in our minds that we had the best opportunity to win,” said MLC Anil Sole, who is former mayor and BJP campaign chief in city. 
 
 “No other political party has even scored such a big in NMC elections as far as I know. In last four decades the single largest party stays in power by borrowing support from others,” Sole explained. He admitted that a weak and fragmented opposition made the win easy.
 
 “It was an unequal contest. The BJP had it all tailor-made with 4-member prabhag system, being the ruling party it had all resources at its command to circumvent restrictions imposed by demonetization. The money they spent on ad-blitz and campaign was overwhelming. Not a fair contest at all, that is why no other party could really fight this naked show of wealth and power,’’ said Vilas Muttemwar, summing up the Congress’ worst-ever performance in the NMC polls.
 
 
