BENGALURU: The legislative council on Tuesday witnessed a heated debate over revision of textbooks for classes 1 to 9. While the opposition claimed the government had rushed with the process, Congressmen said they hadn’t violated any regulations. Dissatified with the response they received, BJP members staged a walkout.

 BJP members claimed the government pushed for an immediate change in textbooks without following the procedure, but the government defended the move saying the aim was the scrub the textbooks of all the mistakes incorporated since 2012.
 
 Ramachandra Gowda, Arun   and Tara Anuradha of the BJP claimed the education department flouted rules to push the reviewed textbooks, saying the move was backed by a political agenda. “While the government formed a textbook review committee in 2014, the terms of reference for the panel were revealed only on November 5, 2016. And in January 2017, the committee submitted revised textbooks for 511 topics for classes 1 to 9. How can you expect a fair and objective review within two months?” Shahpur asked.
 
 He said the government surpassed its own committee of reputable academicians to appease a certain section of society . Quoting the minutes of a meeting held on the textbook review, Shahpur said the government provided the terms of reference without adhering to the syllabi framework prescribed by the National Curriculum Framework and the Karnataka Curriculum Framework.
 
 Tara alleged bizarre and unreasonable changes like dropping “mathru” from “Bharatha namma mathru bhoomi” (India is our motherland) were made. “Are we not the children of this land? What problem does the goverment have with mathru or mother?” she said. The opposition also questioned the government over the removal of certain works by poets.
 
 The BJP MLCs also claimed the government’s decision to introduce   syllabus for classes 9 and 10 had rattled parents, students and teachers, as the latter hadn’t received any training to teach advanced sections in science and mathematics. They said none of teachers was given training on the textbook changes too, leaving 1.01 crore children and their parents in a dilemma over what to expect in the coming academic year.
 
 Sait’s defence
 
 Primary and secondary education minister   said the government had not violated any regulations and had followed the   and NCERT frameworks. “We are not rushing through the syllabus change; every decision taken by the government is in the interest of students. Teachers are being trained till the textbooks are made public. NCERT-prescribed syllabus (CBSE) is being introduced for classes 9 and 10 to ensure our students are competitive at the national level,” he added. On the removal of certain works by a single author, Sait reasoned it was done to bring about parity.
 
 
