Ahmedabad: Running a marathon may not be a big deal for some, but for septuagenarian Randhir Chauhan, an NRG, it matters, as he is set to run his 50th marathon. Chauhan never ran a marathon until he retired. In fact, the 72-year-old began running from 2010, and in a matter of seven years, he completed 49 marathons. He is now set to run his 50th marathon at the Mumbai Marathon on January 15.

 Speaking about what motivated him, Chauhan said, “After retiring from my job as a police sub-inspector in 1976 in Anand, I moved to Maryland, USA. I was fond of watching TV, but eventually realized that I had begun to put on weight due to a sedentary lifestyle. So, I took to spot jogging in front of the TV.”
 
 “A few hours of practice, every day, not only helped me bring down my weight to 69 kg, but it also improved my stamina and encouraged me to run marathons,” said Chauhan, who has run 21 half-marathons and 34 full marathons across various countries including France, Canada, India, Germany, Africa and Australia, among others.
 
 When he ran his first marathon, Chauhan was the only senior citizen who was a participant. In fact, he finished the lap before time. He has won accolades not only in running, but also in cycling. So far, his best time was at the marathon in Paris, which he completed in 5 hours and 16 minutes.
 
 About his exercise regime, Chauhan said, “I walk and run for about two hours every day, and cover a distance of 10-12 km. I believe in maintaining a healthy diet and skip a meal at dinner and replace it with fruits, nuts and milk.”
 
 “When I saw the impact of regular exercise and diet on my health, I thought why not take this up as a challenge and encourage more people to lead a healthy lifestyle. Most people are prone to life-threatening disorders such as diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments due to an unhealthy lifestyle, lack of exercise and inappropriate diet,” said Chauhan, adding, “I want to spread the message and sensitize people to maintain a healthy lifestyle.”
 
 “I have observed that many Indians have inhibitions about taking up something new, especially at a later age. Unlike here, in other countries to which I have travelled, people across all age groups participate in such activities, and make it a point to maintain their health,” he added.
 
 
