GURUGRAM:   has begun constructing the   in sectors 82/82A — a   — that will help connect the two localities with nearby areas as well as the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.

 Sources said while the master roads in most of the sectors between 81 and 95, were completed long ago, the roads in sectors 82/82A and 84 were held up due to   and legal hurdles. Once completed, the 2km-long road in sectors 82/82A will improve connectivity of the entire area.
 
 Earlier this month, Huda managed to remove around a dozen structures and take in possession around 10 acres, including farmland, to pave the way for the missing link.
 
 “Completion of this road will cut short the travel time for residents living in this entire area,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. Now, only one stretch — the master road in Sector 84, which will directly connect with   — is incomplete, he added. 
 
 “Currently, we need to take a longer route to reach home in the absence of a motorable road. The road, once complete, will spare us the trouble,” said Sandeep Mishra, a resident of Sector 84.
 
 Huda officials claimed the sector 84 road had been delayed due to a crematorium and a few structures at Genda Ram Ki Dhani. “We have got permission from court for shifting the crematorium while people from Genda Ram Ki Dhani have been given alternative plots,” said Yadav. 
 
 “Even if people delay vacating the land, Huda will start constructing a temporary road on the available land,” he added. 
 
 According to sources, work on the infrastructure development is incomplete in several new Gurgaon sectors from 58-115, mainly due to resource constrain. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, during his recent visit to Gurgaon, had announced to divide these sectors into four zones to carry out phase-wise development. The four phases are sectors 58-67, sectors 68-80, sectors 81-95 and sectors 96-115.
 
 Khattar had admitted that development of infrastructure in new sectors was a complicated issue, recovering of pending external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC) from developers, besides redressal of grievances of builders and buyers in those areas.
 
  “It is difficult to develop infrastructure, resolve issues of builders and buyers, and collect EDC simultaneously in such a large area. So, the authorities have planned for phase-wise development,” said Huda official.
 
 
