KORAPUT: The   has been imparting training to over 4,000   to dissuade them from branding children with hot iron to cure their ailments under a special programme titled 'Jyoti' since May 2016. However, a fresh case of branding has raised questions over the success of the effort. 

 On Friday, a two-month-old baby boy was admitted to the district headquarters hospital in serious condition after being branded. The infant later succumbed to his injuries. The deceased was the son of Biju Ganda, a resident of the Bharasundi village in the Raighar block of the district. 
 
 The child had been down with fever, cold and stomach pain and was branded by his mother who was looking to cure him. "The child was branded three days ago and developed septicaemia. Even though we tried our best, he did not survive," said Priya Ranjan Bahali, who treated the child at the hospital. 
 
 In June 2016, the Nabaranpur administration was awarded a cash prize of Rs 15 lakh for successfully launching 'Jyoti'. District collector Rasmita Panda had received the award from chief minister Naveen Patnaik at a state-level function organised in Bhubaneswar. 
 
 "I feel that the administration, after launching 'Jyoti', failed to ensure that the programme fulfils its objective. The message didn't reach the grassroots. Hence, the practise of branding in tribal-dominated districts continues," said former Nabarangpur MP Pradeep Majhi. Owing to remoteness of the areas, most of the branding cases go unreported in the district, he added. 
 
 While doctors steadfastly deny the medical validity of an archaic practice as branding, illiteracy and lack of exposure to alternative knowledge and cures result in the popularity of such methods among tribals.
 
 "It is very difficult to completely stop a practice like branding which has been adopted by tribals since ages. Though we are generating awareness against branding among people, but it will take some time," said Nabarangpur's chief district medical officer, Anup Kumar Ghosh.
 
