NAGPUR: The results in the four-member (prabhag) system in   ( ) have seen many strong candidates ensuring the victory of all other members of their panel in some wards. There were also some wards where one   has been elected despite a strong panel in opposition.

 Of the total 38 wards, 23 witnessed major political parties winning all four seats (three in ward no. 38) in the ward. Obviously,   topped the list with 18 wards,   managed four wards and   got one.
 
 In most of these 23 wards, the combination of candidates was proper. BJP smartly adjusted two or three strong candidates in four-member panels or gave all four candidates from different castes etc.
 
 However, some of these 23 wards had one strong candidate in the panel and all won. Best example is ward no. 2, from where Congress candidate Manoj Sangole managed the victory of the entire panel. Sangole has won three times from different parties, and even as an independent, in the past. He returned to the Congress fold just before the elections. He managed the victory of the panel fighting from  , where the BSP is a strong force. Interestingly, he also faced Congress rebels and opposition from Congress former minister Nitin Raut. Another fact that highlights his feat is that BJP swept the panel in the neighbouring ward no. 1.
 
 Sangole said people trust him and voted for all four candidates. “Presence in public and works in the past matter much in panel system. Everyone knew my works and response towards them,” he said. Sangole added it will help him plan and execute works in his ward in a proper manner. “BJP will be in ruling at NMC. I will have to take efforts but will bring funds for the public,” he said.
 
 Similarly, BJP’s Halba face Pravin Bhisikar managed to pull through his panel in ward no. 5. A resident of Central Nagpur, Bhisikar was given a ticket from a ward situated in North Nagpur. “I contested from a ward that did not have majority of Halba votes. However, even opposition parties fielded Halba community candidates against me. I managed to read the people, who were upset with past corporators. I went door-to-door and explained my works in last two terms in Central Nagpur. I also mingled with people, having breakfast or lunch at some voters’ house,” he said.
 
 There were 10 wards from where only one candidate of a political party won while the rest three were from another political party. A close look at these 10 wards shows that such winners were strong candidates themselves.
 
