BHOPAL: Last week, Indian men’s soccer team got a huge applaud after they secured 100th rank in FIFA world ranking after 21 years. But, very few know that Indian women soccer team is world’s 56th ranked.

 Despite such a good ranking there is hardly any talk about Indian eves soccer team’s efforts, lament  , goalkeeper of the national team.
 
 Aditi who was awarded Asian woman footballer of the year 2015, was in the city on Monday to attend the opening ceremony of a soccer tournament being organised by CRPF. She is also India’s first woman soccer player who was signed for English premier league team West Ham United in 2015.
 
 Talking to TOI,   said immense talent is available in the country. “I have seen several girls playing good soccer but they stop playing after their education. This is a sheer waste of talent. They should continue and play for the country,” said Aditi. 
 
 About the reason of lacking popularity of women soccer, Aditi said, “Indian women soccer is not structured. Before I signed for West Ham girls I could have never thought to scale such heights in soccer. I wanted to play and converted my dreams into reality.” She added: “Indian women soccer in the country needs to be structured.” 
 
 Citing the example of England, she said, “Women soccer players in   play tournaments round the year. There is a tough competition among women to get into the team. We can also have the same. Indian women team ranking is better than men’s.” 
 
 Terming it a misconception that studies suffer when one is involved in sports she said, she secured 93% in Class 12 and completed masters in sports management. “It is up to the individual how one wants to move forward in life. I wanted to excel both in sports and studies and thankfully, I could live my dream.”
 
 She changed her game in Class 9. “I was a basketball player and during schools my coach asked me to play soccer. I turned out to be a goalkeeper owing to the practice of well gripping of ball as I was playing basketball,” she said.
 
 She felt that with the hosting of FIFA U-17 World Cup, popularity of soccer will go up in India. “CRPF is selecting the players in  . This is a good opportunity for soccer players of the state to make their presence felt at the national level by participating in such tournaments,” she said. 
 
 Aditi wants to start an academy after her playing career ends. “I will definitely open an academy and help talent of the country reach heights in their career through my football academy,” she added. However, she has not disclosed the city in which academy will be opened. 
 
 Her father is inspector general with CRPF. 
 
