NEW DELHI:   on Sunday announced that cricketer-turned-politician and BJP turncoat   will formally join the party on Monday, releasing his pictures with  , but not before a myriad theories swirled over backstage bargaining. 

 Though his arrival was in the works, delays set off speculation that he might have been asked to take on Punjab deputy CM and Akali scion Sukhbir Badal in Jalalabad. As it turned out, Sidhu will contest the Amritsar East seat previously held by his wife and a part of his former   seat of Amritsar.
 
 In a bid to put a lid on rumours and speculation, Congress announced that former CM and state unit chief Amarinder Singh and Sidhu would visit Darbar Sahib on January 19 and would hold a joint press conference and roadshow in Amritsar.
 
 As Sidhu expected to be given due respect, the long drawn process of his joining raised anxiety levels in Congress at a time when delays over seat allocation are seen to have given   an opportunity to claw back ground that it had been seen to have lost.
 
  The pictures released by AICC showed Rahul draping Sidhu with a scarf in party colours and the two posing together. Interestingly, the Congress announced the joining unilaterally without any statement from Sidhu and also no customary joining formalities at the party headquarters as would be expected with a high profile entry. The party later said Sidhu would formally join on Monday The need to immediately announce Sidhu's joining indicated that Congress was feeling the pressure of incessant speculation about the former cricketer who is seen as individualistic and mercurial. 
 
 Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur joined the party on November 28 along with former India hockey captain Pargat Singh, who has been an Akali Dal legislator. Pargat joined hands with Sidhu to form the Awaaz-e-Punjab outfit which has dissolved with its other component -the "Bains" brothers from Ludhiana -going their way.
 
  Announcing the decision, AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, "Known for straight talking, ideological commitment to the cause of nationalism as also wit and humour, we are certain that Congress party will be immensely strengthened in Punjab and elsewhere with the entry of Sidhu." His joining was preceded by speculation that Sidhu wanted four to five assembly seats for his associates and wife, besides the Amritsar parliamentary seat vacated by Amarinder Singh. It was believed that Sidhu was also pitching for the post of deputy chief minister. 
 
 Ever since he resigned from Rajya Sabha and quit BJP, Sidhu and his associates indulged in intense lobbying with AAP and Congress to settle on his next political destination.
 
 
