Nagpur: The central government has on July 1, 2017, discontinued the   (FPA) given to its employees since decades. The monthly incentive was costing the exchequer a huge sum. It was also discriminatory, since central government employees were getting up to Rs16.92 lakh per person over their service for the family planning operation, whereas an ordinary citizen opting for family planning was getting a one-time incentive of Rs1,200.

 City-based NGO Janmanch had been pursuing this issue with the central government since the sixth pay commission in 2009. “We had taken up the issue first in 2009, when we realized that an ordinary citizen got just Rs1,200 once as FPA from the ministry of health and family welfare. However, central government employees got anything from Rs210 to Rs1,000 per month as FPA for their entire service tenure. This discrimination disturbed us. Besides, it was also a question of unnecessarily spending such a huge sum on central government employees,” said Pramod Pande, Janmanch vice president.
 
 The benefits from the scheme were too huge if the incentive was calculated cumulatively. Pande says that the organization had submitted detailed calculations to the union government and the planning commission about the money spent on the scheme, which got the government moving on the issue.
 
 Janmanch said they assumed an employee took to family planning at the age of 35 years, and worked for 25 years till the age of 60. In these years, the employee continued to get the benefits of the scheme. “Today, this scheme is not needed. Almost everyone adopts some sort of family planning measure after two children. There is a need to stop certain incentives to persons who are not complying with family planning after two children,” said Pande.
 
 Janmanch president Anil Killor has welcomed the central government’s initiative. “It is a success for our long drawn campaign. We had been pursuing this issue for last eight years. It was a good initiative during the 1960s, when the general public was not aware of family planning measures and didn’t believe in adopting them. With awareness, now even the uneducated and the poor take up family planning measures after two children. Time has come to punish those who are not adopting family planning, rather than incentivizing those who are doing so,” he said.
 
 
