NAGPUR: A 100-bed hospital for women and children will come up at Bhandara soon. It got administrative approval on June 7 and will be built at the cost of Rs43.6 crore. The hospital is being set up on the lines of Nagpur’s   and similar ones will come up in all districts of Vidarbha as the state government bids to improve maternal and child health. 

 Such hospitals already exist at Gondia, Akola and  , apart from Nagpur. Another one is nearing completion and will be functional in a couple of months. “We have the sanction to recruit staff here,” said Dr RS Farooqie, assistant deputy director of health.
 
 In May, Bhandara MLC Pariney Fuke met Chief Minister Devendra Fadvavis regarding improving the women and child health scenario in the district by introducing a specialized hospital. “Bhandara has a population of 13 lakh and 668 villages. Due to the load on the district general hospital, people are forced to travel to Nagpur. The move will greatly benefit the district.”
 
 “The expansion of public sector hospital facilities will lead to a rise in institutional deliveries and meet the demands of rising population. Though general hospitals exist across  , women and newborns will get specialized care in these hospitals,” said another public health department official.
 
 Currently, Daga has 350 beds and there is a proposal to construct a building extension and add another 200 beds. The hospitals at Gondia, Akola and Amravati have 200 beds each. The upcoming hospitals at   and Bhandara will have 100 beds. 
 
 The hospitals in rest of the five districts in the region are also expected to have 100-beds each. Each of these facilities is expected to incur a Rs30 crore capital cost and have a staff of 100 including specialists.
 
 Currently, the state public health department has a total of 13 such specialized hospitals in districts. Apart from the four in Vidarbha, the other places are Parbhani, Jalna, Osmanabad, Latur, Ulhasnagar (Thane), Neknur (Beed), Khamgaon (Buldhana), Hingoli, and Nanded.
 
