Nagpur: “Victims hire intelligent and expensive lawyer whom they trust more than cops. But cops should not fully depend on human witnesses, they should focus on improving the probe by gathering technical and medical evidences. It would help them to develop trust among citizens,” chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said.

 He was speaking at the inauguration of ‘Nagpur centre of police service excellence', a one of its kind institution in the state, at Sadar on Tuesday. 
 
 While appreciating the efforts taken by officers to construct such training centre, he said that Mumbai has the best traffic control room in the state. Soon an ultra modern control room would be established in Nagpur too, he said.
 
 Forty-two cyber labs have been established in every district of the state, he added. Human witnesses could turn hostile but technical and medical evidences help to get convictions. He extolled city commissioner K Venkatesh for his remarkable initiative in providing state of the art facilities to cops.
 
 "IT is the perfect time to replicate such models, including Bharosa Cell, in the other cities as city police are getting good results while solving problems," said state director general of police Satish Mathur .
 
 Cybercrime has increased, hence, our police should also become smart in handling such cases and learn the advanced technologies offered at the centre, the chief minister said. 
 
 Sometimes heinous crimes change cops’ attitude which ultimately affects their interaction with citizens. The trainers at the institution would work on cops’emotional quotient to tackle the problem, added Fadnavis. 
 
 Stating the objectives of the model, Venkatesh said that cops hardly undergo training to reform themselves after they get appointed in the force. The institution would encourage them to focus on investigation in a broad manner. The top cop said that he wanted to set a benchmark with the help of the transformation lab.
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh and senior police officers too were present during inauguration.
 
 
