MUMBAI: As quite a few civic wards returned wafer thin victory margins on Thursday, parties and candidates who saw their ambitions curtailed resurrected the issue of missing names in voter lists and demanded an inquiry.

 While there were a number of double-digit victory margins, about 50 candidates won with sub-500 margins.
 
  chief   was among those who hinted at mischief.At a press meet, he sought an inquiry into why Marathi voters did not find their names on the electoral rolls on Tuesday. In Borivli, losing Sena candidate Paresh Dhanak said he wanted an investigation.
 
 Even the Congress had asked for a high-level inquiry on voting day. Some citizen groups, too, said they were considering moving court. Thackeray went so far as to say the BJP victory in elections to local bodies across the state was the result of it being in power and the use of assets that are at the disposal of a ruling party.
 
 From 10% to 20% voters at various polling booths had reportedly found their names missing on polling day . In a few wards, residents of entire buildings, some of which were undergoing redevelopment, were not on polling booth lists. Hundreds of names were misspelt or listed at a different booth.
 
 There were 98 lakh voters in the last assembly polls, but the list for the city this time was trimmed by six lakh voters to 92 lakh. The election commission said it had revised the list based on a survey and open amendments sought from voters through newspaper ads and notices.
 
 Now, losing candidates are blaming the reduction in voter numbers for their defeat.
 
 As for the thin victory margins, these were also attributed to the close fight between former allies BJP and Shiv Sena.Rough estimates suggest that compared to the 16% seats that saw sub-500 victory margins in the 2012 BMC election, this time there are anything between 22% and 35% such seats.
 
 “The number of sub-500 margins could be even more, but our tentative estimates give us an approximation of 50 seats,“ a senior officer, who closely monitored the counting of votes held on Thursday, said.
 
 One of the wards even witnessed a tie, possibly the first in civic elections.
 
