 may be let off with a slap on the wrist by his party leadership over  .

 With Shiv Sena chief   deferring his meeting with Gaikwad, who hit an   staffer with his slipper after an altercation, it is learnt that the MP has been let off with a stern warning. While he has been asked to watch his behaviour in public, party sources said that no action against him is likely at the party level at least for now. With an air hostess from the flight reportedly coming out in Gaikwad's defence, the party has adopted a go-slow approach and is waiting for the controversy to die down.
 
 A senior party leader said, “The entire picture is now getting clear and we now know that Gaikwad was provoked. The air hostess has said that Gaikwad lost his cool as AI staffer R Sukumar misbehaved. The air hostess has said that Gaikwad was very polite and patiently waited for senior airline officials for an hour and only when he was provoked did he take his slipper in his hand to hit the staff member. When she intervened, he withdrew and became silent. So he isn't entirely at fault.“
 
 While Uddhav had summoned Gaikwad to seek an explanation, the meeting was deferred.While Gaikwad was asked to submit a detailed explanation about last week's incident, he is yet to submit anything in writing. Party sources said that he had conveyed his side of the story to the party leadership.
 
 Party leaders said that a section of the party was not keen on taking any action against him till the police investigation was complete.“Gaikwad is a party MP but he is not an office bearer. He is not a secretary or a unit head so we can't ask him to step down from any post. He is a Member of Parliament and a primary member of the party. We can't suspend him from the party for the incident unless the police investigation nails him. So, at the moment, a warning is all we can give him and ask him to watch his behaviour,“ said a senior Sena functionary.
 
 However the party has maintained that it doesn't endorse such behaviour in public.
 
 “The Shiv Sena doesn't endorse such behaviour by any of our elected representatives.Uddhavji has made this clear several times and all our leaders have been asked to be polite and behave properly at all times, especially in public,“ Shiv Sena MP Anil Desai, who is also the party secretary, had said. Desai met Gaikwad in Delhi on Friday and told him that Uddhav had expressed displeasure over his actions. A senior leader said that Uddhav was upset over the entire episode and had asked senior leaders to inform all functionaries to `take care' about their public behaviour.
 
 Following the incident on Wednesday, all airlines barred him from flights, forcing him to take a train on Friday evening to reach Mumbai.He reportedly got off at Vapi in Gujarat on Saturday morning and then headed to Pune. From there he was scheduled to travel to his home town of Umarga in Osmanabad.
 
 Senior Sena leaders said that with the other side now becoming clear, Gaikwad would take legal action against Air India. “The real truth is coming out now. It is clear that Gaikwad was only responding to the bad behaviour by the airline staff and there was no high handedness from his side. He was provoked and so he lost his cool,“ the functionary said.
 
 Meanwhile, Gaikwad told reporters that he wasn't going to come before the media until March 29. “A senior Sena leader ordered me not to speak with media till Wednesday. I will come to Umarga on Tuesday and celebrate Gudi Padwa with my family and Shiv Sainiks. I will then attend Lok Sabha session (in New Delhi) on Wednesday.“ 
 
