KOLKATA: In this  , when computers,   rule our lives, every humanities student pursuing   should be made to study mathematics. Without an elementary klnowledge of maths, it will increasingly become difficult for any human being to survive in the changed world. Saying this,  , emeritus professor of English at the  , urged   to include a course on maths in its humantities syllabus. Chaudhuri was speaking on ‘Harnessing the Humanties’ — a special lecture organised as part of the ongoing bicentenary celebrations of the varsity.

 Chaudhuri had been a student and a teacher at the erstwhile Presidency College before moving to Jadavpur University. “At 66, I realise how disadvantaged I am because I have no knowledge of maths whatsoever. But lately I have been working with computers and computation widely, that started with the archival work that we are doing with Tagore’s writings. Bichitra or the variorum edition of the ‘Rachanavali’ is a product of the joint efforts of humanities, science and engineering. It is now that I feel the deficiency more than ever and I don’t want you to go through this,” Chaudhuri said.
 
 Vice chancellor of Presidency University, Anuradha Lohia, replied enthusiastically that while Presidency College was metamorphosing into university, a lot of changes had been rung in, including a change in the syllabus. One of the many things that was done then was to frame an optional course on maths fort humanities students. “But hardly anyone opts for it. Though it is a global trend now, the mindset of our students is not changing here,” rued Lohia.
 
 An elementary knowledge of maths helps humanities students develop analytical and problem solving skills that will only widen their vista, Chaudhuri felt. “The change from a world of print to a digital world is the biggest paradigm shift and is far bigger than the one from manuscript to print. It can be comparable to the huge transformation that came over the world when orality gave way to writing,” Chaudhuri said.
 
 
