BARWANI: A deputy superintendent of police ( ), Man Singh Tekam, who had been mysteriously missing for the last two years, was traced to a lodge in Barwah town of Khargone district on Thursday night.

 Police officials in Bhopal said on Friday that Tekam was categorized as a ‘missing person’ and now that he has been found, the case will be closed. A separate departmental inquiry would be conducted at police headquarters (PHQ) into his prolonged disappearance.
 
 “We have found him from a lodge at Barwah where he was apparently living for the last two years. Initial investigations suggest that he was not doing any other job. He is being questioned about his source of income,” said Siddharth Bahuguna, SP Bhopal (south).
 
 While some senior police officers believe that he had settled down with another woman in Khargone, his immediate family claimed that Tekam was suffering from severe depression. 
 
 Tekam was posted at Police Headquarters (PHQ) in Bhopal when he went missing in February, 2013. A complaint was lodged at Jahangirabad police station by his family members.
 
 Nothing much was done till his disappearance was raised in the   by Congress MLA Phunde Lal Marco this week, who sought a reply as to what the government was doing to trace its own officer.
 
 In February, 2013, Tekam had left for Satna from Bhopal, but neither reached his destination nor did he return home. Family members have been searching for him since then. As his salary was stopped by PHQ, his wife Mohwati Singh started working as a labourer to eke out living.
 
 SDOP Barwah Man Singh Thakur, who assisted the Bhopal police team in locating the missing DSP, told TOI that he knew Tekam personally as he was posted in Khargone earlier. He came to know about his disappearance after the issue went viral on social media. 
 
 “Tekam had contacted me 10 days ago, claiming that he was in Barwah and wanted to meet me. At that time I was unaware about his missing status. When I saw the issue on social media, I informed P S Thakur, TI Jahangirabad police station,” said Thakur.
 
 The Bhopal police raided Vishranti lodge of Barwah at midnight (intervening night of March 2-3) and took him in custody, said SDOP Thakur.
 
 Recent TV reports showed Tekam’s wife Mohabbati Bai working in a field at Chandania village in Anuppur district as a labourer under MNREGS. His son and daughter also left their studies. “The exact reason behind his missing is still to be known,” said Thakur.
 
 
