 NAGPUR: Four girls and as many numbers of boys, all under 12 years of age, were rescued by the District child protection unit team under   from ‘Jeevan Ashray seva Sansthan’, an NGO working for orphanage and others, at   near Rani   in north Nagpur last week.
 
 The rescued children, after being produced before the Child welfare committee (CWC), were shifted to government shelter home. 
 
 Following the scrutiny and rescue action, the District child protection unit has also filed a complaint with   for violation of section 41 of Juvenile justice (care and protection of children) Act, 2015 under which registration is required with the District women and child development office. The police, which claims to be inquiring the antecedents and other facts related to the orphanage, are yet to register the offence under section 42 of the Act which may lead to imprisonment up to one year and fine not less than Rs one lakh. 
 
 Last year, the ministry of women and child development ministry had urged the   and union territories to ensure the different child care institutions, whether receiving grant or unaided, functioning at various places to get registered under section 41 of the JJ Act and also appoint a committee to inspect the facilities provided at such shelter homes. 
 
 Pathan, who conducted the raid at the NGO under supervision of District women and child development officer Vijay Singh Pardeshi, said that several NGOs are operating orphanages without complying with the regulations under JJ Act. “The orphanages functioning with only permissions and registrations under charity commission needs to comply with JJ Act also. Many are functioning without complying the JJ Act. Police should register offence as we are as a government agency furnishing them with complaints of such violations,” he said. “The rescued children are now being reunited with their families after orders from Child welfare committee,” he said. 
 
 Senior PI, Yashodhara nagar police station, GM Mujawar said the statements are now being recorded at present. “we have kept the matter under inquiry,’ he said. 
 
 
