RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh high court has quashed an award passed by permanent Lok Adalat, granting compensation Rs 97,200 along with 6% interest per annum to a woman who after three years of sterilisation operation conceived pregnancy and gave birth to a child. The court held that   awards can be challenged by a party to the dispute under Article 226/227 of the constitution. 

 The bench of Justice   passed the order on a writ petition filed by   (SECR) divisional railway manager and others challenging the permanent Lok Adalat Award, granting compensation to the woman concerned holding that its a case of comparative or composite negligence, covered under Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. The Lok Adalat said it is a public utility service holding that service in hospital or dispensary is public utility service and therefore the dispute is amenable to the Lok Adalat. 
 
 SECR and the doctor performed sterilization surgery, through their counsels, submitted that the award suffers from jurisdictional lacunae as the services provided would not be covered under public utility service as the   is run by the Railways only for its employees as a benevolent measure of welfare. They also argued that the permanent Lok Adalat would not have jurisdiction to decide the matter as it has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon tortuous liability. As such, the award of damage or compensation that has been made is without jurisdiction deserves to be set aside.
 
 The high court, in its order, said there is no doubt that permanent Lok Adalats cannot perform their adjudicatory function and proceed to decide the claim based on tortuous liability merely because the petitioners are operating a public utility service under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Therefore, the award passed by the Lok Adalat cannot be upheld. Besides, considering the well settled law that sterilization is not cent percent guarantee of not getting conceived, Lok Adalat should have examined the negligence on the part of surgeon in conducting surgery for sterilization. In absence of such negligence, no tortuous liability could have been settled for payment of compensation, the order said. 
 
 The high court order, citing   cases, pointed out that only after arriving at a definite conclusion regarding negligence on the part of medical practitioner, compensation was awarded to the claimant. In the case in hand, no such finding of negligence appears to have been recorded factually and no express conclusive finding has been recorded by the permanent Lok Adalat regarding actionable negligence on the part of doctor who performed sterilization operation. 
 
 The high court however, held that quashing of the impugned award would not bar the complainant to make claim, in accordance with law. 
 
