KANNUR: While police acted swiftly and registered cases against the organizers of   shobha yatras for parading kids tied up to an artificial peepal leaf mounted atop vehicles, history suggests such victims seldom get justice due to delayed trials and absence of special courts.

 It was on May 21, 2014 that an 11month-old girl was sent on parasailing alone at Muzhappilangad beach in the district by her own parents and grandfather, as part of a campaign to popularise the recreational activity .Though the police registered a case, charged the accused under Section 23 of the   Justice Act and submitted a chargesheet in the judicial first class magistrate court here, the trial is yet to begin.
 
 Since the case was registered as per the old juvenile justice act, which has since been made stringent with new clauses, the police officials are not sure whether the accused would be punished. Even if they get punished, it would be a jail term for less than six months. When the incident sparked an outrage, the  , which sought a report from the police, later issued an order making it clear that children below 12 years should not be made to participate in parasailing, and also instructed the po lice to register a case. But as the recent incident suggests, guidelines put in place to prevent atrocities against children are often flouted. “The commission has certain limitations as it can only ask the police to register the case.So, as per the Juvenile Justice Act which prevailed at that time, we had asked the police to register case under Section 23 of the Act,“ said  , who was then the acting chairman of the commission.
 
 Since that Section has been re placed by Section 75, in the new cases registered in connection with the Shobha yatra, the accused might get jail terms of up to three years if they are found guilty , he said. However, the problem is that it will be difficult to identify a single individual as accused in such cases. Moreover, the disposal of such cases often get delayed as only designated courts can conduct trials.Since there are no such courts in most of the districts, and as the courts that are supposed to conduct the trials in such cases are overburdened, convictions are delayed, said Chaliyam.
 
