Hyderabad: The fundamentals of the Indian economy are strong and the current global political and economic uncertainty, especially with the advent of the Trump era, will not have any major impact on the Indian economy in the near term, eminent economist Omkar Goswami said. “We are fine. Around 70% of our GDP is our consumption. Even if there is a downcycle, we, and to some extent China, are very well protected. I am not talking about 9% growth. But to get 7% growth on a regular basis, if we do not mess up with policies, is possible,” explained Goswami, who was in the city over the weekend to launch his latest book -- ‘Goras and Desis: Managing Agencies and the Making of Corporate India’.

 As far as the impact of demonetization is concerned, he said it won’t impact growth numbers much. “Demonetisation has played out and is over. My general sense is that the impact will be half a percent of GDP. So instead of growing at 7% this year, it could end up at 6.5%,” he said.
 
 The Economic Survey 2016-17 pegged the country’s GDP growth at 6.5% for the current fiscal and between 6.75%-7.5% for the next fiscal. It is pertinent to note that the global economy posted a growth rate of a little over 3% in 2016. On the raging H-1B visa issue, he advised the Indian IT industry to deal with it and work out new business models as every country has a sovereign right to take such decisions. “We are a very protectionist country … Do you think we give visas to 150,000 people to work in India every year...so what are we talking about...saying how are you (US) preventing my right to work in your country. We (Indian IT) have to learn how to deal with it…how to hire more Americans, how to offshore more into India and to deal with client concerns with lesser number of hands in America…,” he added. Even IT leader N R Narayana Murthy had earlier accused the Indian software industry acting as “immigration agents” for its employees. Last week, the H1-B visa reform bill was introduced in the US House of Representatives. Called the High-Skilled Integrity and Fairness Act of 2017 or the H1B visa reform bill, it proposes to hike the minimum annual salaries for H-1B visa aspirants from $60,000 to $130,000, rattling Indian IT players, who feel the move could dent the growth of the sector as a chunk of revenues come from the US. Talking about his book, which traces the history of corporate India within the organisational and legal framework of the managing agencies, he said: “Even though it (managing agencies) has been abolished… it is still the system. For instance, Tatas take half a percent of revenues from every (group) company for using the Tata logo ... over and above the dividends they get,” he said. In fact, all the major business houses in India such as Tatas, Birlas, Parrys, Murugappa, were all set up under managing agencies, he said. 
 
 These managing agencies used to control several companies with a minimal stakeholding in each before they were abolished by the Indira Gandhi government in 1970. These agencies flourished as they could provide the initial capital to set up industries. Once a company took off and a managing agency made money, it would plough that money back into some other company. One of the most prominent examples of this was Carr, Tagore & Company, the first managing agency in India that was set up by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s grandfather Dwarkanath Tagore in the 1830s. Even the global corporate world is full of instances of the group head/company exercising tight control over other group entities like Sumitomo Corporation, Mitsubishi Group in Japan, Jardine Matheson in Hong Kong and LVMH in Europe. 
 
 
