Nagpur: The daylong machan (waterhole) estimation to count herbivores will be held in the state from May 10-11 for 24 hours, on the occasion of Buddha Pournima, when visibility is good owing to full moon.

 The estimation will be held in tiger reserves, sanctuaries and national parks as well as territorial and forest areas with Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). Entire programme has already been issued to in-charge officials last month. 
 
 Though prey and predator estimation is conducted by NTCA by way of line transect method every four years, and annual camera trap survey is also done by parks, it only helps to know number of tigers and density of herbivores. Last tiger count in the country was done in 2014 in which 2,226 tigers were recorded.
 
 “The waterhole estimation will help know the number of herbivores. To do it in a transparent manner individuals and members of NGOs will be involved in the exercise,” said wildlife spokesperson and DFO GK Vashishtha.
 
 Though the programme has been announced, respective park managers will work out modalities next month as it is still more than a month to go for the exercise. However, some officers were reluctant to take up the exercise as May is the forest fire and water scarcity time for wildlife.
 
 “We will call meeting with our officers on how to go about it. There are limited machans and a large number of aspirants who will be invited on first-come-first-serve basis. Only serious wildlife lovers and NGOs will be allowed to take part,” said senior wildlife officials.
 
 Those interested in taking part will have to apply to respective field directors offices. In Tadoba, those wanting to be part in buffer and core will have to apply separately with deputy director core & buffer. Last date for accepting applications is April 25. In territorial areas respective deputy conservators will accept the applications.
 
 Last year, for the first time, estimation was done by point count method, also known as point transect method suggested by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. However, not many followed it.
 
 In TATR, as many as 456 volunteers participated in core and buffer. Last year there were 207 machans including 68 in core zone and 139 in buffer. As online bookings have been allowed, parks will not remain closed for jungle safari on May 10 and 11.
 
 In Melghat, there were 449 waterholes in Sipna, Gugamal and Akot divisions. In all, 471 volunteers were shortlisted including 20 women. Several were also kept in the waiting list. In Pench, Umred-Karhandla, Bor, Mansinghdeo, Tipeshwar and Painganga sanctuaries under Pench there were 360 machans.
 
 
