BENGALURU: City police commissioner  , additional commissioner   and deputy commissioner of police Ajay Hilori paid a visit to the   on Saturday, and took stock of the investigation into   that were reported within the station limits in the past week.
Cops have already arrested five suspects in connection with the molestation incident in Kammanahalli that occurred in the early hours of January 1. Miscreants were caught molesting a woman on a private CCTV camera.Search is on for the sixth suspect, Pappi. “We are confident of nabbing Pappi soon, and bringing the case to a logical conclusion,“ said Nimbalkar.“We have sent special teams outside the city. He has turned his mobile phone off. However, we are confident of tracking him down,“ he said.
 
 Cops still hunting for suspect in stalking incident
 
 A day after a 28-year-old woman approached Banaswadi police, saying an unidentified man pulled her T-shirt on Wednesday , cops said that the suspect could have been stalking the victim. The incident occurred at 9pm on Wednesday when the victim was retruning home from the gym. “The victim said she received a call from an unknown number. The call was disconnected when she said 'hello'. Also, the miscreant pulled her T-shirt's collar, which could mean he was trying to grab her gold chain too,“ police said.
 
 Dress carefully to avoid abuse: Mahadevi
 
 Hubballi: Head of the Basava Dharma Peetha, Kudalasangama, Mate Mahadevi on Saturday held the sartorial choice of women responsible for the recent incidents of sexual harassment that were reported in Bengaluru.Reacting to the incidents of molestation that marred New Year celebrations in Bengaluru, Mahadevi told reporters in Dharwad, “Women should be fully clothed to prevent sexual harassment. Wearing half-necked costumes provokes men, who then react in a vile manner.“
 
 However, she strongly condemned the incidents, terming them 'shameful' in a civilized society.She said that women should avoid wandering alone at night.“Dressed obscenely, if women go around alone at night, incidents such as rape will increase,“ Mahadevi said.
 
 KG Halli victim says she bit her own lips
 
 After she lodged a complaint on Friday with KG Halli police, stating that a miscreant had molested, and subsequently hurt her lips, the victim on Saturday told the cops that she injured her lips when she bit into them in panic. “We have formed three special teams to nab the suspect. The CCTV footage that is available is not too helpful in identifying the accused. We are using different methods to track the suspects,“ KG Halli police said. “We have formed three special teams to nab the miscreant. CCTV footages are not too helpful in identifying the accused and we are using different methods to track down the miscreant,“ KG Halli police said.
 
