GANDHINAGAR: The state government is planning a new scheme to appoint ‘Women Police Mitras’, to provide basic help and guidance to women facing domestic violence, child marriage and dowry-related violence. These mitras will be trained to provide guidance, legal help and co-ordinate short term and long-term relief measures, especially in villages.

 The state government has made budgetary provisions for a pilot project covering 1,041 villages of two districts, Ahmedabad and Surat.
 
 V P Patel (IAS), in-charge secretary of the women and child development department, said: “This scheme has been introduced in the recently tabled budget under the government of India’s   (MPV) scheme. The state government has named it   (MPM). The role of   will be to link village women and the police. 
 
  These mitras will help women in distress by providing immediate medical, police, social and legal assistance. The scheme will first be implemented in 1,041 villages of Ahmedabad and Surat. These villages have been selected on the basis of crime against women and poor sex ratio. The minimum qualification for Mahila Police Mitras will be class XII pass or above. Mitras will get an honorarium of Rs 1,000 per month. The government of India will bear 60% of the expense and 40% come from the state budget. 
 
  will be given special training. They will provide legal and other help to village women besides helping them to avail of benefits from various government schemes.”
 
 In her work, a Mahila Police Mitra shall undertake the activities like creating awareness about existing services for women and children — for example the One-Stop Centres ( ), Short Stay Homes, Shelters, police helpline 100, women’s helpline 181, Childline 1098 and mobile application for emergencies (Himmat App). 
 
 They will also inform police about unpleasant behaviour or untoward incidents involving women and girls in the community. The mitras will act as an additional intelligence collection unit for all issues pertaining to women. They will look for new or suspicious arrivals in the village, provide information about missing women or children, substance abuse and deviant behaviour among schoolchildren and college students. 
 
 Teh mitras will report incidents of missing children, violence against women such as domestic violence, child marriage, dowry harassment, trafficking and any other form of violence. 
 
