MUMBAI: A significant change in leadership following a succession plan is taking place at the Adi Godrej-controlled   with the 75-year-old patriarch stepping back and becoming chairman emeritus at key companies.

 From April 1 this year, his son   (37) took over as executive chairman at  , while   assumed the role of chairman emeritus. On Tuesday, flagship company   (GCPL) announced the appointment of Godrej’s daughter Nisaba ‘Nisa’ Godrej (39) as the new executive chairperson of the company with effect from May 10 this year. Here, again, Adi Godrej has moved into the role of chairman emeritus.
 
 This makes Nisa one of the youngest chairpersons to shoulder the responsibility of steering an organisation with consolidated revenues of Rs 9,600 crore and a presence across geographies. Tanya Dubash (49), Godrej’s eldest daughter, on the other hand, is already leading  , an unlisted company.
 
 Although Adi Godrej continues to be chairman of the diversified $4.5-billion locks-to-soap group, he is seen to be gradually giving up executive charge at individual group companies, while paving the way for the next generation to take on leadership roles. It is now widely speculated that Godrej Industries (GIL) would announce the next leadership change. The GIL board — on which Dubash and Nadir Godrej (Adi’s younger brother) are directors — is slated to meet in a couple of weeks to declare the financial results. Adi Godrej could become chairman emeritus at GIL as well. 
 
 The industry has its eyes peeled on this succession and Tanya, who is the chief brand officer of the group, may get to chair GIL as part of the succession plan. However, there is no confirmation on this yet. Some believe the role could even go to Nadir.
 
 Turnover-wise GIL is the largest listed company (Rs 10,700 crore), followed by GCPL and Godrej Properties (Rs 1,600 crore). Among these, Godrej Properties is the fastest growing.
 
 For four decades, senior members of the Godrej family — Adi, Jamshyd (68) and Nadir (66) — have been leading the 120-year-old group. It is understood that the seniors would continue to provide a guiding light to the new members taking up the baton. When Pirojsha was appointed as chairman of the realty company, he thanked his father for his foresight and inspirational leadership. Pirojsha said he looked forward to his father’s continued guidance.
 
 In a statement after her appointment as chairperson of the FMCG firm, Nisa, said she looks forward to the continued guidance of the chairman emeritus. She assured stakeholders “the values our chairman has taught us, combined with his disciplined, results-driven, and humble approach, will always be the core of our DNA”.
 
 Although a late entrant into the family business, Nisa has been a quick learner and is said to be quite well entrenched in the affairs of GCPL. Nisa has been a key architect of GCPL’s strategy and transformation over the last decade. In 2007, she initiated and led ‘Project Leapfrog’, which created a playbook for GCPL to accelerate domestic organic growth through innovation and consolidation, and to become a more global company by investing in emerging markets outside of India. Over the last 10 years, GCPL’s market capitalisation has increased twentyfold — from Rs 3,000 crore to Rs 60,000 crore. Credited to have driven meritocracy into the group, Nisa has also institutionalised design-driven thinking at the firm, and she directly leads product development. Insiders see several similarities between Nisa’s style of leadership and her father’s. Many a times, she has convinced him into taking decisions driven by her business acumen.
 
 In a statement, Adi Godrej said, “I am grateful to our board for their thoughtful and planned approach to executing our succession plan. The foundations of GCPL are extremely strong. This is an opportune time to transition to a new chairperson, who will lead the company in its next phase of growth. I feel very confident that Nisa will be an outstanding executive chairperson. Over the last decade, I have worked closely with her and seen her deliver tremendous results. She is an inspiring leader who will always uphold our values. I will continue to serve the GCPL board and contribute in whatever way I can to GCPL’s success and long term growth.”
 
 Experts said the succession planning is a result of the institutionalisation of  , which was set up about 15 years back. At Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company, which is chaired by Jamshyd Godrej (Adi’s cousin), his son Navroze Godrej has been bringing about a major change in design-thinking and is also on the board of the company. Apart from that, Adi Godrej’s younger brother Nadir Godrej’s son, Sohrab (23), too has entered the group and is currently working at the chemicals business.
 
 Prior to the family council, family members remained executive chairmen at Godrej’s listed firms for life. The family council has brought in a certain transparency and method to usher in a smooth transition of the next generation of family members into critical leadership roles.
 
 However, even while family members are expected to chair the respective boards of group companies, at MD & CEO level, professionals would continue to lead the businesses. Vivek Gambhir continues as MD & CEO at GCPL, while Mohit Malhotra is the counterpart at Godrej Properties.
 
 
