PATNA: Khagaul’s  , a constituent unit of   (MU), has gone cashless with the college administration installing devices for students to pay fees and other charges.

 According to college principal Rajesh Shukla, the initiative is aimed at ensuring not only cashless transactions on the campus but also maintaining transparency in the college’s accounts. Students having debit or credit card can now make payments at the college counters, he said, adding more such devices would be installed soon.
 
 Online admissions: A large number of students have applied for admission to graduation courses at M D College at Naubatpur on the outskirts of  . 
 
 The college has launched a website for students to get information about academic activities and academic calendar. “Students will be admitted as per the guidelines posted on the college website,” college principal Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha said, adding M D College is the only MU institution which has introduced online admission facility.
 
 Health camp: Patna’s J D Women’s College organised a health check-up camp on its campus on Monday. A team of specialist doctors examined a large number of girl students at the camp. The students were also given tips to take proper care of their health.
 
 BEd examination: Magadh University’s BEd examinations began at different centres from Monday. The examinations will continue till January 31. The centres include B D College in Patna.
 
 Commerce teaching: T P S College has got the Magadh University nod to start commerce teaching in vocational mode at graduation level from this year. The college has now sought the Raj Bhavan‘s approval to start commerce teaching from the ensuing academic session this year, said college principal Tapan Shandaliya.
 
 Vocational courses: R K D College at Kankarbagh in Patna has proposed to start vocational courses in Library Science and other career-oriented courses from the next academic session. “We will launch the courses after getting approval from the university,” said college principal P K Verma.
 
 
