KOLKATA: Ecologists, activists and academics want immediate action against encroachers taking over the   ( ) and a judicial probe into the illegal sale and purchase of land in the Ramsar site, instead of regularising illegal constructions as proposed by environment minister and mayor   after he took over the chair at East Kolkata Wetland Management Authority ( ). 

 Demanding a judicial commission headed by a   or Calcutta high court judge to inquire into the EKW land grab, they cited over 200 FIRs lodged by EKWMA that Chatterjee's proposal threatens to undermine and open the floodgates to conversion of land use and development of real estate across the belt. 
 
 “In a case filed by the public, Justice Umesh Chandra Banerjee of Calcutta high court had in 1992 clearly stated that there can be no change in land use in the wetlands. In 1997, the Land Use Development Control Plan outlined the EKW map with mouzas. The designation of EKW as Ramsar site in 2002 and subsequent legislation of East Kolkata Wetlands (Management and Conservation) Act, 2006, reiterated its status.
 
 In 2009, the Supreme Court, while allowing the Dhapa water treatment plant, made it clear that nothing else be done at EKW. So this talk of regularising illegal constructions is bizarre. If that is attempted, we will have to take legal recourse,” said PIL activist Subhas Datta. 
 
 While Chatterjee has repeatedly claimed that he will ensure no waterbody is filled up, it does not give any comfort to ecologist Dhrubajyoti Ghosh. He pointed out that EKW comprised the waterbodies as well as land. “Is this an attempt to construct on portions of EKW that are not bheris?” 
 
 Several bheris have been filled up already. Large chunks of land have changed hands; plastic recycling plants have come up, as have scrap leather units; flow of waste to bheris have been choked to drive them out of business. “These incidents may appear disparate, but are clearly orchestrated to grab the large parcels of land in EKW,” said green activist Naba Dutta. 
 
 Professor Sukanta Chowdhury fears the waterbodies in EKW may turn into something like Bellandur Lake in Bengaluru, whose water contained so much chemical that it caught fire. 
 
 Chatterjee’s proposal to set up a bird-cum-safari park in the wetlands has also alarmed everyone. As WWF-India’s Saswati Sen pointed out, birds will automatically flock to the wetlands if they are left alone. “We did a biodiversity study in 2003 and again in 2014-15. Not even a quarter of the biodiversity that was recorded earlier could be found in the later study,” she pointed out.
 
 
