GURUGRAM:   Bezbaruah’s husband   has admitted he was in a relationship with a Mumbai-based office colleague and that their affair had begun even before he got married to the Assamese singer-actor, police said. 

 Jha was produced in a city court on Thursday after his one-day police remand ended and sent to judicial custody.
 
 During his custodial interrogation,   told cops he met Bidisha while she was doing her internship in AFCONS India’s Mumbai office in 2014. Soon both fell in love with each other and he also helped Bidisha in getting absorbed in the company. But two years ago, he fell in love with the Mumbai-based woman and Bidisha got to know about it.
 
 Bidisha’s father, Aswini Kumar Bezbaruah, had alleged Nisheeth’s extra-marital affair drove her to suicide on Monday evening at the Gurgaon flat the couple had moved in to just a day ago. 
 
 Nisheeth, who is originally from Gujarat, works for AFCONS India. The couple got married on April 28 last year.
 
 Inspector Gaurav Phogat, SHO of Sushant Lok police station, said, “Nisheeth has admitted to an extra-marital affair with the Mumbai-based woman, and we are trying to corroborate his confessional statement with his call records. Only after we get concrete proof of the woman’s involvement, we will ask her to join the investigation.”
 
 “Nisheeth’s mobile phone and laptop have been seized and we will soon send them to Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhuban for further investigation,” he added.
 
 Cops had taken Nisheeth to a friend’s place in Ghaziabad on Wednesday and recovered his mobile phone from there. He had visited his friend’s house first while returning to Gurgaon from Mumbai on Tuesday and left his cellphone there, police said.
 
 However, a source close to Nisheeth’s family claimed that he was forced to make the confessional statement by cops who were under media pressure, and it’s Bidisha’s suspicious that drove her to suicide.
 
 The 27-year-old actor-singer was found dead inside her ninth floor Gurgaon flat, hanging from a ceiling fan with a dupatta tied around her neck, on Monday evening. An FIR has already been registered against Nisheeth under Section 306 (abatement to suicide) of the IPC at Sushant Lok police station and he was arrested on Tuesday evening.
 
 “We are verifying Nisheeth’s call records which have revealed he was in constant touch with a particular number which could be that of the Mumbai woman. 
 
 “We are investigating the case and the accused could be again taken on police remand for further questioning,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (east), Gurgaon.
 
 
