PUNE: The district consumer court here has ordered the erstwhile   Suzuki India Limited to   Rs25,000 with 9% annual compound interest since April 18, 1997, to a Sadashiv Peth resident. 

 According the complaint, the company had refused to return the   amount after the complainant had cancelled a car deal that was struck two decades ago.
 
 Taking into account the interest payable by the company so far, the amount works out to more than Rs1.43 lakh. This will continue to grow till the actual payment is realized. The court gave the company 45 days to implement the order and also directed it to pay Rs5,000 cost to the complainant. 
 
 However, the then 14 Indian and Japanese directors/ executives of Maruti Suzuki, former MP Suresh Kalmadi and six other directors of auto dealer Sai Service Private Limited on JM road, were absolved of any liability for deficient service by the bench of consumer court president V P Utpat and member O G Patil. “The company directors and executives are impleaded not as `service providers’ but, in their individual capacity. Therefore, no liability can be fastened on them,” the bench held. 
 
 Similarly, it observed that the dealer (Sai Service) had forwarded the complainant’s demand draft towards the booking amount to the company. As such, the dealership and its directors cannot be held liable for the refund. The court referred to the Indian Contract Act which provides that “an agent cannot personally enforce contracts entered by him on behalf of his principal, nor is he personally bound by them.”
 
 The bench said the company was deficient in providing service when it refused to return the booking amount, despite repeated follow-ups by the complainant. The company had argued that, under its terms, conditions and instructions for booking, a cancellation request must be accompanied by original documents like allotment letter, acknowledgement slip, signature verification from bank, proof of identity and letter received from company. The company claimed the complainant did not provide these documents. 
 
 The complainant, however, furnished letters she had written to the company on August 10, 1996; April 18, 1997, and May 16, 2007, that she never received an allotment advice from the company. She also produced another letter dated July 14, 2007, from the dealer confirming the same. “In such circumstances it was not at all fair and reasonable for the company to insist upon original documents,” the bench observed. Moreover, the complainant had followed the company’s instructions on May 25, 2007, by submitting an affidavit and indemnity bond, the bench pointed out. 
 
