JAIPUR: The Supreme Court ban on alcohol shops on national and state highways from this fiscal across the country would turn the arid state into a near dry Rajasthan.

 With highways being the lifeline of a lot of small cities that have developed around them across the state, closure of liquor shops, would render kilometres at stretch without an alcohol vend. Neemrama, the Japanese town on the NH-8, that comes within the 500 metre ambit, post the implementation of the ban would not have even a single liquor shop.
 
 For instance, the NH-8 from Jaipur to Ajmer, all shops along the highway from Dudu, Bagru, Nahla, Phulera and Sambhar on one side and Kishangarh and Renwal on the other side, would have to be shut. Chomu, Rampura dabdi and Jaitpura on Sikar road would be 100% sans a vend. Nohar, Sadulpur, and Reengas have 90% Nagar Palikas that would be affected by either a national or a state highway running through them. Sixty percent of Rajgarh municipality in Churu that gave the state annual revenue of Rs 7 crore with a population of about 1 lakh would be absolutely alcohol free.
 
 Now, with all these to be shifted, there would be little option on where to shift them as the densely populated cities would find it difficult to keep them 200 metres away from either a temple, school or a mosque. 
 
 Rajaldesar, a municipality in Churu, was a case in point that gave the government revenue of about Rs 1 crore annually. In 2008, after the 200 metre regulation, the shops were shifted out on the NH-11. After the High Court order, they were shifted 150 metres away. But now with the SC order, the entire municipality will go dry.
 
 At the moment the state has 7,760 liquor shops and nearly 2,800 of them fall within the 500 metre radius of highways and thus come under the Supreme Court order. The apex court in its December 15 order has banned all liquor shops on national as well as state highways across the country and directed that licenses of existing shops will not be renewed after March 31. In Rajasthan, over 8,000 people died and over 22,000 injured in highway mishaps in 2015.
 
 “Earlier, the HC ordered that shops on the highway move 150 metre away from the mid of the highway. Now, Supreme Court has ordered to move them 500 metre away from the edge of the road so that they are not visible at all with no signage on the road. All these would have to be shifted elsewhere, the policy and the bidding process changed too. It’s a herculean task and we are doing a physical survey,” said O P Yadav, excise commissioner.
 
 There are 38 NHs in Rajasthan with total length of 8,016.18 km and 85 state highways with total length of 11,716 km. “The SC order will be followed and nearly 2,800 liquor shops located on highways will be closed. Depending on the location, these may have to be rationalized and re-grouped with the other shops. The sale targets too could reduce or enhance depending on that. The revenue target for the ongoing fiscal is Rs 7,000 crore but the impact of the decision on the revenue collection will certainly be affected,” said Yadav.
 
 Box:
 
 Move to fuel corruption
 
 While the decision to move the shops from the highway is a good one in the light of fatalities every year in road mishaps, this would on the flip side fuel corruption and enhance illegal sale of alcohol, feel stakeholders. Monitoring is more important than just banning alcohol sale on the highways, they feel. After the 150 metre distance regulation, alcohol was openly sold on the road-side dhabas. The signages indicating their location that were to be removed are still there. There is no will in either the excise department nor in the police to enforce the ban. There are sale targets set by the excise department and monthly charges set by the police. Ironically, after the regulation that alcohol shops shut at 8 pm on December 24, 2008, the police fixed the rates at Rs 500 per month per shop, to sell alcohol beyond 8 pm. April 2009 onwards, the police increased this to Rs 2,000. And now we have to pay the police Rs 8,000-10,000 per month per shop to meet the excise department targets, since most of the alcohol is sold after 8 pm. But with the shops shifting into the abadi area, probably we would now have to pay monthly to few more people, including the ‘parshad,’ said a source on condition of anonymity.
 
 
