PUNE: An acute shortage of   (BPCL)   cylinders has hit consumers in Pune and Nashik, sources in the LPG industry said on Saturday.

 A shortage of close to 1 lakh Bharatgas cylinders prevailed in Pune till Saturday , oil marketing company officials said.
 
 Bharatgas distributors said that the current shortage may lead to three weeks of backlog at the dealers' end. Citing reasons for the shortage, officials said that LPG imports were stuck for some time due to technical reasons, and some refineries were shut. They said that incoming supplies were also being diverted to Uttar Pradesh due to the   elections there, all of which resulted in short supply in parts of Maharashtra and other states.
 
 BPCL has the highest customer base in Pune district, with 14 lakh customers. Sources from the Maharashtra LPG Distributors Association said that shipments have not been landing in time at the ports, with not enough bulk LPG supply reaching the bottling plants. “The shortage is acute in Pune and Nashik, running from 3,000 to 6,000 pending orders with each distributor. In fact, customers have already begun panic booking,“ a source from the association said.
 
 A senior BPCL official told TOI on Saturday that the company was facing a shortage of close to 1lakh LPG cylinders in Pune. “However, the situation is likely to normalise in a few days. The shortage was a result of some refineries being shut, apart from imports getting stuck due to technical issues,“ he said.
 
 The official added that a bulk of the product is imported and the supply problem originated from BPCL's loa dingimport locations. “The supply that did come was pushed to UP due to the ongoing elections in that state,“ the official said.
 
 A top source from the Maharashtra LPG Distributors Association, said, “The pending bookings run into 6,500. Even if we make 800 deliveries per day, it will take close to 10 days to clear the backlog.Most of the shortage is in Pune and Nashik, where dealers have three weeks backlog delivery.“
 
 A Bharatgas distributor in Katraj said that his current pending orders run up to 3,000. “Earlier, customers would get cylinder delivery within 24-48 hours; now however, the deliveries are delayed by eight to 10 days. We were told that LPG tankers were not arriving at bottling plants,“ the distributor said.
 
 Another Bharatgas distributor from   has a backlog of 3,500 orders, with a waiting period of eight to 10 days for delivery. “We have faced such an issue after 10 years, where the backlog runs into so many pending orders. We witnessed such a situation in 2006, when customers had to wait for a week to get the deliveries,“ the dealer said.
 
 Another distributor in the city has 4,000 pending orders. “Customers have unnecessarily begun panic booking. On an average, we get 900 orders per day. But since the shortage, we have been getting 1,200 to 1,300 orders per day. Our employees have to face angry customers who create a ruckus due to the shortage of cylinders,“ he said. Sangeeta Rajguru, a resident of Yerawada who uses Bharatgas, had booked a refill four to five days ago, and is yet to receive it.
 
 “I was already late in booking the cylinder and did not know that my current fill was close to getting over. After I did not get the delivery, I had to ask my sister for her refill as she was not using it for the time being,“ she said.
 
 Anita Dutt, a Bharatgas customer, had booked a cylinder in advance but received it after six days. “Normally , when I book a cylinder using the phone service, I get the delivery within two to three days. This time, I got the cylinder after six days.The cylinder I was using ran out before I got my refill,“ she said.
 
 Rakhi Nikaje, a resident of  , said, “I booked a refill a few days back and am yet to receive it. My cylinder is like to run out and we have a big dinner planned for relatives coming in two days. I hope I get my delivery before that, or we will have to cancel the dinner invitation altogether. This is the first time that we have faced problem with cylinder delivery after almost a year.“
 
 Meanwhile, HPCL distributors said that there was minute shortage of HPCL cylinders earlier, but that was resolved. Animesh Sinha, chief regional manager, HPCL, said that the company currently faces no supply shortages.
 
 “The company's pending booking is 57,000 cylinders as of now, which is 1.8 days of average sales,“ said Sinha.
 
