The central government's scheme to provide free cochlear implants to poor children is said to have broken the cartel that restricts implantation to just a few surgeons and hospitals.The scheme website lists 172 centres where implantation can be done. But a close look at the data shows that only 30 of them have done more than 10 surgeries while 101 haven't done any and another 20 have done five or less.

 Despite it being a government scheme, nine private centres which have done more than 20 surgeries each accounted for almost two-thirds (62%) of the 911 surgeries done till August this year showing the stranglehold a few centres continue to have over the scheme. In comparison, only five government centres have done more than 20 surgeries and they account for just 15% of the total surgeries. Incidentally, in the current year, 201718, one of these government hospitals have done five surgeries while the rest have done none.
 
 The share of private centres in the scheme has steadily increased from less than half the total surgeries done in the first year, 2014-15, to over 70% this year. However, director of the Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for Hearing Handicapped Ashok Sinha told TOI that efforts were on to encourage more government centres to take up cochlear implantation and to ensure the spread extends further beyond big cities. The institute, which is the nodal agency for implementation of the Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchasefitting of AidsAppliances scheme (ADIPS), has a database of every surgery done under it.Under the scheme, the government pays up to Rs 6 lakh for every implantation.
 
  
  
 The centres that have done the highest numbers of surgeries are all private ones — Divya Advanced ENT   in   (90 surgeries), Bayya ENT Hospital (69) in Guntur, MAA ENT Hospital in Hyderabad (37) and Dr SN Mehrotra ENT Foundation in Kanpur (35). The only government hospital in the top five is Mumbai's Nair Hospital (35). According to Sinha, government hospitals are not well equipped with speech therapy centres and their operations theatres are busy , hence they end up doing fewer implantations.
 
 Some surgeons complain about arbitrariness in empanelment of centres. “Our centre did not get empanelled despite having all the facilities sought under ADIPS. But some centres without required facilities have got empanelled. The process is opaque,“ said a senior ENT surgeon who trained abroad after graduating from AIIMS.
 
 “If the government was serious about ensuring that there are enough surgeons qualified to do the surgery and it is more widely available, they would have concentrated on training surgeons in government colleges so that ENT surgeons are trained in cochlear implantation during post-graduation“ asked Dr Prahlad Basant, a senior ENT surgeon who had written to the PM seeking his intervention in bringing down the cost of implants and regulating the implantation programme.
 
 A mentor surgeon, who is also the head of an ENT department in a government hospital in Delhi, has raised questions about the fate of children whose implantation was done under ADIPS. “I attended a meeting where the results of a survey done among beneficiaries was discussed.It showed that almost 60% are not traceable. That is alarming. There should be regular follow up. There ought to be an independent evaluation of the programme,“ he said. Sinha insisted that independent evaluation was being done and what was being referred to was probably preliminary results. He said their own evaluation had shown less than 1% failure in the programme.
 
