LUCKNOW: An   on the back of Dr Joydeep Sircar’s   has left investigators working on the case confounded. As it was being presumed that Sircar sustained only   injuries, the new finding in the post mortem report has compelled Mahanagar forensic science laboratory based experts to examine all aspects thoroughly.

 On February 2, the 45-year-old chest specialist was found   on the terrace of his bungalow in   near Fatima hospital. The bullet that entered through the left side of the skull exited from the other end, while another fired at the forehead got stuck inside the skull, thereby resulting in three bullet injuries—two by entry and one by exit.
 
 A fourth injury mentioned in the post mortem report seems to have been caused externally and made the curious all the more curious. “A contusion is present on the back portion of doctor’s head. We have asked joint director of the laboratory Dr Ghayasuddin Khan to explain how the fourth injury may have been caused,” said additional superintendent of trans-Gomti, Durgesh Kumar.
 
 The panel of doctors who conducted the autopsy examination noted a contusion (8cmx6cm) on Sircar’s occipital region. Joint director of state’s health department Y K Pathak who was heading the Aishbagh medico-legal cell said the fourth injury was caused externally.
 
 Echoing his views, another expert who heads forensic medicine department at a private university, Dr Abhas Kumar Singh said the contusion on back of the skull occurred before gunshots were fired. “Doctors on the panel have noted the findings in a scientific manner. There is no way gunshots could have caused contusion on occipital region,” said Singh.
 
 Struggling to ascertain whether Sircar committed suicide or was murdered, Khan is expected to determine the exact sequence of events which lead to Sircar’s death. “Only through reconstruction report it will be clear if somebody hit the doctor on occipital with blunt object before firing gunshots,” said Kumar.
 
 Dr Sudeep Sircar, elder brother of the deceased, said, “The gate of our house is usually open for patients to come inside and the place where Dr Sircar was found dead, was the terrace of third floor.” SHO, Mahanagar, SK Singh said that no CCTV cameras were found in Sircar’s house or locality.
 
 
