NEW DELHI: In a first-of-its-kind move, the government replaced two high-profile public sector bank chiefs on Friday for failing to do enough to revitalise their banks, in addition to appointing five new MDs and chief executives at state-run banks that are grappling with a pile of stressed loans. 

 The appointments came within hours of an ordinance that empowered the   to order action against loan defaulters apart from getting lenders to initiate insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.
 
 
 
 
 As part of the revamp of the management of state-run lenders, the government moved   managing director and CEO   to Allahabad Bank. Similarly, Bank of India boss   was shifted to Syndicate Bank. Last month, M K Jain replaced IDBI Bank MD & CEO K P Kharat, who was shifted to Indian Bank. 
 
 The three were among the five “large banks” where private sector bankers were also invited to apply for top jobs under Indradhanush, an exercise to revamp public sector banks, over two years ago, which was aimed at revitalizing state-run players through a series of steps.
 
 Earlier, top jobs in these banks were given to experienced bankers who were “promoted” from smaller entities. In the case of large banks, the idea is to put “younger” bankers in charge of charting and implementing a turnaround plan.
 
 “Some of the bank chiefs have not being doing enough. They just sit idle for two-three years and refuse to take any decisions, letting banks suffer,” a finance ministry official said.
 
 While announcing the details of the ordinance that was cleared by President  , finance minister   had indicated that the government was not satisfied with the way the public sector banks were operating. “The object of this act is that the present status quo cannot continue. And the present status quo is that not much was moving and, therefore, a paralysis in the name of autonomy is detrimental to the economy itself and, therefore, that really requires to be broken,” he told a press conference.
 
 In the evening, an official notification said that Corporation Bank executive director Sunil Mehta will replace Ananthasubramanian as PNB chief, while   ED Dinabandhu Mohapatra will move to Bank of India in place of Rego. The Indian Overseas Bank’s ED R Subramania Kumar has been elevated to MD & CEO of the Chennai-headquartered lender which has staged a turnaround of sorts after grappling with a pile of stressed assets. Oriental Bank of Commerce ED Rajkiran Rai G will move to Union Bank as MD.
 
 
