NAGPUR: Fear has gripped women in the southern part of the city. They dare not step out after 7 pm anxious of being assaulted by the motorbike-borne stabber who has six victims so far. Be it Chhaya Jeevankar from   or   of Om Nagar, their fears are the same.

 The issue of the prowling serial stabber has attained such gravity that it is on the agenda of director general of police Satish Mathur who will be in the city on Tuesday for a pre-poll visit. He will be meeting the city brass.
 
 The unidentified stabber struck between January 4 and 30 and targeted only women. Now, other women in the area are afraid to step out in the dark. They have had no option but to skip the routine evening walk, visit to gardens and even buying vegetables in the market. 
 
 Some like Vimal Lakde from Ashirwad Nagar has had to take a hit on her income. Hailing from an economically weaker section, she earns money working as a cook. But since last month, Lakde is not going for any evening jobs after sunset.
 
 Ratnamala Jadhav, who belongs to a family of police, said women now move around in groups. “Tuition classes wear a half-empty look. If police fail to nab the culprit at the earliest, the panic would only increase with every passing day. The messages making the rounds on social media are only adding to the confusion and fear,” she said. 
 
 According to   of Ashirwad Nagar, there are many houses in the locality where women attend to chores like paying electric bills, buying groceries and vegetables. “This is affected now. It has become all the more difficult for such families,” she said.
 
 Another woman from Ashirwad Nagar, Maya Maske, said that Std XII girl students are now worried about their performance in the forthcoming Std XII exams. Plagued by the fear, they have stopped going to evening tution classes.
 
 Maya Shivhare, Megha Wakode, Ujjwala Satokar and others from Om Nagar claimed that they no longer feel ‘safe’ and ‘comfortable’. “We now escort our children to schools or tuition classes,” they said.
 
 Apart from the stabbing cases, the women from both Ashirwad Nagar and Om Nagar also complained of a steep rise in cases of petty thefts in their localities.
 
