GUWAHATI: The NSCN(K) on Thursday slammed the National Investigation Agency ( ) for arresting three   government officials for allegedly siphoning off government funds for paying 'tax' to the insurgent group. It said collection of tax has been mandated by the Naga people in support of the group's aspirations for sovereignty. 

 On April 26, the NIA arrested three officers of the Nagaland government, all in the rank of joint directors of different departments, in connection with a case arising out of alleged charges of largescale extortion and illegal tax collection on behalf of NSCN(K) from various government organizations by the cadres of NSCN(K) in Dimapur and  .
 
 The NIA statement said the 'three officials provided a substantial amount to   (K) by way of contributing government funds to the banned outfit, thereby supporting NSCN(K) in furtherance of its unlawful activities.'
 
 A statement issued by NSCN(K) on Thursday said, "The arrest of several state government officials by NIA for alleged nexus with NSCN is a desperate attempt to veil off it's frustration and failure to stem the Naga struggle and to coerce the patriotic and freedom-loving Nagas to abstain from performing one's obligations towards national cause."
 
 "  to NSCN/GPRN is a conscious political exercise of the Naga people that legitimises the mandated national aspiration for sovereign independence which the NSCN/GPRN upholds. The common Nagas are ever supportive and find common ground with NSCN/GPRN's self-governing mechanism of taxes, donations, stipulations etc. It is, however, the conspiracy of the GOI (government of India) in fomenting division and creation of several criminal gangs that is tormenting the economically challenged state of affairs," the statement said.
 
 The outfit underlined that the arrests will not prevent it from collecting taxes. "As such, the NSCN/GPRN shall continue to levy reasonable and affordable taxes which the people had willingly been subscribing to not only for the sustenance of our national struggle but in preservation of the inherent rights to self-govern and self-determine our destiny as practised for centuries by our forefathers in an independent sovereign village republics," the statement said.
 
 The outfit has appealed to the Nagas 'to rise against alien authority persecuting the upright Naga public servants while massive corruption in public offices remains unchecked and criminals roam scot free." 
 
 
