KOLKATA: A 48-year-old woman has alleged that she was attacked and burnt with hot water by her neighbours after she insisted on keeping pets at her residence. The incident has been reported from near Dhaka Kalibari on Prince Anwar Shah Road. A case in this regard has been registered at the Jadavpur police station. "We are probing if there were other reasons behind the attack - including the property angle," said an investigating officer.

 According to victim Srabanti Sen, she had been working for the betterment of animals for the past 26 years but had never faced any resistance from the area before. "I lost my mother in February 2015 and my father passed away on September 2016. I presently have a mongrel along with a physically handicapped Spitz and a Labrador along with 15 adopted cats. The first instance took place on January 20 when four of my neighbours - who have access to my terrace - locked out one of my maids and a pet dog. I had to call the Jadavpur police to rescue them. On advice from cops, I registered a complaint.
 
 The next morning - on January 21 - another call was made to Jadavpur police after the neighbours began filming my maids and even me along with the dogs without my permission. This time too, cops asked me to lodge a second complaint. Finally on Republic Day morning, I was taking my dogs for a walk around 6 am in the morning when I found my neighbours - four of them related to each other - who attacked me all of a sudden. They grabbed me by the hair and kept yelling : "tor kukur posha amra dekhe nebo. (We will see how you keep these pets). They assaulted me and finally poured boiling water on my hands using a mug. I was shocked beyond words and in pain. I have been working with the Debasree Roy foundation and they insisted I send an email to minister Maneka Gandhi. On their advice, I lodged a FIR. The jadavpur police raided my neighbours but the main accused had fled by then," she claimed.
 
 Neighbours at Dhaka Kalibari though claimed that the woman was possessive about the dogs and that she had attacked them with blades when they requested her to stop the dogs from barking. The jadavpur police said they have received complaints from both sides and are probing the case. "We will look in to all possible angles," said an officer. The incident comes days after a businessman in an upscale neighbourhood had attacked his neighbour - also an established businessman - after he was upset with the latter's dog barking all through the day.
 
