Panaji: Grounded vessel MV Lucky Seven finally eased off Miramar beach, where it had been stuck for 63 days, after two tug boats pulled it out about 400m towards the sea on Monday. In a synchronized operation that lasted two hours at high tide and watched by company officials, curious tourists and locals, the heavily battered ship finally moved free of the coast at 11.30am to be hauled near a sand bar in the river.  “This is the last sand bar. We could not move her further as the high tide has ebbed,” Narinder Punj, consultant, GoldenGlobe Hotel Pvt Ltd said. Company officials, salvors and port administration officials appeared cheerful as the ship receded further off the coast. For tourists and even locals, the ship had been an additional attraction at one of Goa’s most popular and accessible beach. Tourists were seen clicking the last selfies with their backs to the vessel. For regular evening walkers and visitors, the ship was visible till late, but at midnight, the salvors are expected to exploit tide conditions to pull it over the last sand bar. The range of the morning tide was 2.7m.  The operation with two tug boats—Maria with 60 tonnes bollard pull and Minakshi with 20 tonnes bollard pull— was difficult in rainy and stormy conditions. “The winds picked up speed and the smaller tug had to hold the rope firmly while the other pulled it,” Punj said.  The rope linking the boat to the bigger tug even got entangled with the anchor and had to be freed.  The vessel, just a floating piece without engine, will be shifted off the Aguada coast for repairs that may last a week. “She will be moved to a safe place for underwater patchwork,” Captain James Braganza, ports administration department, said. Braganza who monitored the operation said that the difficult underwater repair once completed should strengthen it for the sea voyage to Jaigad, Maharashtra. The vessel which was sought to be used as a casino in River Mandovi had drifted toward Miramar on July 16 after it hit a sand bar obstruction. Within a week, it caused noticeable damage to beach morphology, as the shoreline appeared to have receded slightly on a stretch of 100m towards Caranzalem. Scientists have said that restoration will occur naturally.