NAVI MUMBAI: Three   from Lucknow are travelling across states, riding their  , to spread  . 

 They plan to cover 7,000 km in 15 days to spread the message, a journey inspired by the death of their friend’s 17-year-old son while riding pillion on a scooter a few years ago. 
 
 The trio—Atul Mishra (48), Aditya Singh (24) and Rishabh Shankdhar (25) —started from Lucknow on March 15. They have covered eight states and cities like Nagpur, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Palakkad, Munnar, Madurai, Rameswaram, Kanyakumari, Kochi, Devangere, Kolhapur, Pune and reached Airoli in Navi Mumbai on Monday evening. From Mumbai, they will return to Lucknow via Indore and Jhansi.
 
 They are part of a group of biking enthusiasts, ‘UP 32–Bulleteers,’ which undertakes bike expeditions across the country. A member of the group came in contact with Ashutosh Soti (54), a Lucknow resident, whose son died in a bike mishap. Soti has been motivating people to abide by road safety rules ever since. “On July 15, 2010, my son Shubham, who was just 17, was killed on the spot in an accident while riding pillion on a scooter driven by his friend. I couldn’t save him despite working for a super-speciality hospital. I decided to dedicate the rest of my life to spread awareness on road safety and founded ‘Shubham Soti Foundation’ and ‘Shubham Soti Memorial Trust’. We also hold workshops on road safety in schools, colleges and corporate offices,” Soti said. 
 
 Hearing Soti’s story, the three bikers decided to undertake an expedition this time to spread the message of road safety. While Atul is a tattoo artist, Aditya is a wedding planner and Rushabh owns a salon. 
 
 Atul said, “We are spreading this message among rider communities and others across India. People can follow us on facebook.com/up32bulleteers. We have taken a pledge to never drive under the influence of liquor and request others to do the same. Our pledge also states we will follow all traffic rules and encourage bikers and motorists to drive using seatbelts, with helmet. We also met teenagers below 18 and requested them not to drive until they get a valid driving licence.”
 
 
