BENGALURU: While the highly polluted Bellandur and   are often in the headlines, smaller water bodies in equally bad shape are ignored and dying a slow death, to which Bengaluru's citizen reporters have constantly drawn attention.

 Chenthil Kumar S, along with other volunteers of Bhumi, an NGO, has been working on rejuvenating Vibuthinagar Lake near HAL airport since last December. The lake was fenced by the   ( ) a few years ago but miscreants cut through a part of it, allowing disposal of waste and garbage in the lake.
 
 Over the past six months, Bhumi has collected 7.6 tonnes of garbage and planted 100 saplings along the lake.
 
 “People were dumping sewage water and waste into the nearby stor mwater drain which empties into the lake. Since the drains are uncovered, we decided to stop waste dumping by putting up a mesh.Once it was installed, we asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) to clean the drain. They said they would ask their contractors to do the job, but nothing was done,“ said Chenthil.
 
 “With the onset of the monsoon, the garbage clogged up the mesh and the sewage water started overflowing, following which the slum dwellers living nearby broke the mesh,“ he added.
 
 “I approached the BBMP but to no avail, follow ing which I decided to post the picture of neglect on The Times of India CR app. As soon as it was carried in the paper, I got a call from the BBMP saying they would help us out and that they were doing the necessary paperwork to ensure the mesh was cleared twice a week,“ he added.
 
  registered a complaint with the app in the hope of preventing his neighbouring   from becoming the next Bellandur.
 
 “The lake was restored a few years ago, and a lot of people would come here to walk and play. Now, nobody comes here as the lake has turned into a dump yard.While plastic and other solid waste are dumped here almost daily, sewage water coming from the adjacent drainage pipes also enters the lake, resulting in foul smell from it all the time,“ Natarajaiah said.
 
 “It's possible that sewage pipes are directly connected to the lake. Filters installed initially are now giving free passage to unfiltered water into the lake,“ he added.
 
 While it's difficult to walk along the lake because of the stench, a lot of people residing nearby are dealing with health issues, to which the BBMP has been indifferent.
 
