By Y Maheshwara Reddy 

 When it comes to  , judgements and   are only as much of a hindrance to a steady climb up the ladder as they are allowed to be. For example, here’s one: the Karnataka State   Secretariat has promoted 35 employees “just one day before” the   (DPAR) issued a circular banning promotions for the next six months.
 
 The DPAR issued the circular on March 22, directing the authorities concerned to not promote state government officials for another six months.
 
 The DPAR issued the circular in view of the Supreme Court order, declaring that the provisions of the Karnataka Determination of Seniority of the Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, to the extent of doing away with the ‘catch up’ rule and providing for consequential seniority to persons belonging to SCs and STs on promotion against roster points, were ultra vires Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
 
 The interesting thing here is, the DPAR issued the circular on March 22 even though the Supreme Court judgement on promotions came on February 9. The other interesting point to be noted is the urgency with which the 35 officials were promoted (with effect from March 1, 2015) — all in one go, and just one day before the DPAR circular.
 
 According to reliable sources, the promotion orders were actually prepared and issued on March 31 with a predate.
 
 “There is rampant corruption in the Legislative Council Secretariat. These promotions would not have been possible without involvement of Legislative Council Chairman and Secretary,” said an employee of Legislative Council Secretariat on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The documents available with this correspondent support the views of some employees who claimed that promotion letters were predated. They question why the circular issued by the promoted officers on March 28 consist of previous designations and not the latest designations if the promotion letters were issued on March 21.
 
 “The circular issued by Mohan K Mugali on March 28 has his earlier designation – Under Secretary (in-cha­rge). If he is promoted on March 21, why does the circular, issued on March 28, have his previous designation,” asks an employee, who wants to be anonymous. However, Mohan K Mugali, Under Secretary (in-charge), Legislative Council Secretariat, feels there has been no violation of the Supreme Court order or the DPAR circular. “We have not violated any rules,” Mugali asserted.
 
 However, DH Shankaramurthy, Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council, claimed he was ignorant of the promotion of 35 employees in the Legislative Council Secretariat. “I am not aware of the promotions. I will look into the matter,” Shankaramurthy said.
 
