CHENNAI: Animal rights organisations Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), on whose petitions the   had banned jallikattu, on Friday said they were keeping track of the developments on the ordinance on jallikattu and will decide on further course of action on Saturday.

 Earlier in the day, chief minister   promised to pass an ordinance in a day or two to allow jallikattu in the state.
 
 Panneerselvam said a draft ordinance of the state government to lift the ban on jallikattu had been sent to the home ministry . He said that after getting the assent of President   on Saturday , an ordinance will be promulgated by the TN Governor to conduct jallikattu.
 
 AWBI board member and head of their legal sub-committee   told TOI that its board members have to first pass a resolution to challenge the ordinance.She said there is “no call [for the board members] to meet“ on Saturday but any step they take [such as moving or passing a resolution] “can be done by circulation“.
 
 “A resolution has to be passed by all members. If any member proposes a resolution, then we will have to see how many people support it.Last year, there was overwhelming support for challenging the central government's notification (to allow jallikattu). The AWBI challenged that,“ she said. “If an ordinance is coming, we will have to follow the same procedure,“ she added. PETA said it was consider ing various legal options. “We are continuously taking advice from our legal council,“ Poorva Joshipura, CEO, PETA India, told TOI.
 
 Earlier, Union minister of state for road transport and shipping   told a news agency that the government should keep an eye on PETA because they are “unnecessarily interfering“ in TN's traditional festivals and culture.
 
 PETA India's Legal Counsel P Sreenivasa said, “The unfair targeting of valid efforts by PETA India, which has lawfully supported a petition filed by the AWBI, a government body , means any other organisation or individual working within their legal right to help animals, women, children, the environment or for any other vital causes in India are also at risk of harassment.“
 
 
