HYDERABAD: Osmania University students found a novel way to   over the administration’s move to snap power and water supply to hostels. They organised a   late on Saturday night and   on a road inside the campus protesting the decision. 

 Facing the challenge of evicting non-boarders from hostels to accommodate new batch of students, the university administration resorted to such an act. On Saturday, the administration snapped both vital supplies twice, irking not just the non-boarders but even legitimate hostellers. 
 
 “The supplies were snapped at 5am and restored after 10am. Again they were snapped at 10.30pm after which agitated students cooked food on the road,” said Manavatha Roy, a student leader. 
 
 Over 50 students cooked food and had their dinner near the university library. This was the third time that the university took the extreme step of snapping power and water supplies on campus. While the university had asked non-boarders to vacate the hostels by July 23, students affiliated to different unions and political parties have been resisting the attempt for the past two months. 
 
 According to officials, in a small single-cot room in the Old PG Hostel, meant for arts and humanities students, there are two dwellers. In some cases, three to four students share the tiny room meant for only one. 
 
 Students argue that the OU administration has failed to recognise the dreams of those who fought for the statehood. “Several PG students staying in the hostels are jobless. By evicting them, the administration and the state government are betraying those who fought for a separate state,” said Naresh Dudapaka, state president, Dalit Minority Students Association and a PG student in journalism. 
 
 With classes for the next academic session set to commence from Monday, the university is firm on evicting the students staying illegally. Supply snapping is not just affecting the non-boarders but even those who are staying in hostels legally. “Snapping of water and power supply causes immense inconvenience to us. The fight is between the non-boarders and the university administration. Why are we suffering ?” asked a student on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Although there is a strong opposition from a section of students, the administration’s move yielded some results. “So far, hundreds of non-boarders from three hostels have voluntarily vacated the rooms. Those in other hostels are warned and are being counselled by us to ensure that they vacate the rooms at the earliest,” said S Ramachandram, university vice-chancellor.
 
 According to officials, if the non-boarders fail to vacate the hostels in next 10-15 days, the administration is also planning to conduct raids to evict them.
 
 
