Swara Bhaskar's upcoming film ' ' is the latest to fall prey to online piracy. The makers of the film filed a police complaint on Wednesday at   regarding the leaked scenes of the film, and are hoping that the police will nab the culprit soon. 

 "It's very disturbing that just a few days before the release of the film, three crucial scenes have been leaked online. These three scenes are bold and important for the film, and apparently, they are doing the rounds on the internet since Monday. I got a call on Wednesday morning informing me about the leaked scenes and I immediately rushed to the police station to file a complaint," says  , the producer of the film. 
 
  The producer claims that they "know who must have done this and the person is a part of the film's team." Sandiip adds, "But we will wait for the police to complete its investigation, find the server from where the scenes were leaked and only then we will decide the future course of action."
 
 
  The complaint written to Malviya Nagar Police Station about the leaked scenes from 'Anaarkali Of Aarah
 
 
 
  The film’s team has already sent notices to the websites where the leaked scenes are available, with a copy of the police complaint, asking them to remove the links. "Unlike cases in the past, this is not the censor copy which has been leaked. The leaked scenes have the watermark of 'sound', which are from the copy which is sent to the lab, therefore I know someone known has deliberately leaked the scenes. Someone known to me wanted to retain a scene in the film, but the Censor Board asked us to delete it, and we agreed to it. That deleted scene is one among the three that have surfaced online," says the Delhi-based producer.
 
  A police official from Malviya Nagar Police Station tells us, "The producer of the film filed a complaint at our station because their office is in our area. But since it is related to copyright, the case will be transferred to IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) Department after we receive further information. The information provided by the producer is very sketchy and we are waiting for more details to take any further action."
 
 --With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
 
