In a spacious old building on the crowded   is India's original umbrella store. Marked with the `Stag' logo, umbrellas occupy every inch of this shop. There are more than a 100 varieties here, from all kinds of black to glittery ones named after Madonna and Marilyn Monroe. In one corner, a very tattered classic black umbrella stands encased in a glass box.It is 115 years old and called Grandpa Brolly .

 Ebrahim Currim & Sons is not just an umbrella shop. It is a part of Mumbai's rich business history , as an extract from a 1917 book on the Bombay Presidency--shown to us by Zameel Currim, the fourth generation owner--makes clear. It was in 1860 that Ebrahim Currim opened his first small umbrella shop at Bazaar Gate Street in Fort, before moving to the current location many years later. Partnering with his three sons--Rahimbhai, Ramjanally and Goolamal ly--the founder established the National Umbrella Factory, their manufacturing unit, in 1902. The enterprise never looked back.
 
 By the early 1900s, there were several branches across the country including in Calicut and Madras. “Prior to the opening of the Calicut branch,“ the 1917 book recalls, “the majority of the people on the Malbar [sic] coast used palm leaves as protection against sun and rain, but Messrs E. Currim & Sons have taught them to adopt umbrellas, and purdah ladies have even been converted to the use of them.“
 
 The store had a virtual monopoly on umbrella sales at that time, the account notes, noting approvingly that the Currims are advocates of the policy of `a large business, small profits and quick re turns.“ Since then, much has changed in both product and market. Both the pipe and the fabric used in the store's umbrellas have undergone innovation. The original cane staff sourced from Kerala has given way to pipes of steel. Silk is replacing cotton. “We have to move with the times, keep updating,“ says Zameel.
 
 Cheap Chinese imports pose stiff competition today . Still, the umbrellas remain popular and are used by a wide range of customers, from judges to vegetable vendors.TV and film production houses commission umbrellas regularly , says manager Haider Lakhani. The most popular brollies today include smallest five-fold umbrellas and the large 28-inch ones, known as Shehenshah.
 
 Customer trust has sustai ned the family business for 157 years, say the owners. Recently, they received a letter from G S Sampat, a Bombay High Court lawyer. “In 1973, I bought three umbrellas from your shop. One of them is still with me,“ Sampat wrote. And a few monsoons ago, recalls Zameel, a middle-aged man walked in with his grandson in tow. The man's grandfather had bought an umbrella for him at the store when he was a child. “Now,“ the customer said, “I want to buy an umbrella here for my grandson.“
 
 The city's relationship with this iconic umbrella manufacturer-seller endures.
 
