BENGALURU: On Thursday, Bengaluru development minister   said   would be spruced up by August. The promise may have brought cheer to shoppers and others who frequent the iconic road, but it has left traders anxious. Their fear:   will continue to be affected for two more months due to the ongoing TenderSure work.

 Eateries and restaurants say their business has declined by nearly 50%. The reasons are many — no parking space, dug-up footpaths and dusty stretches — and they are keeping many from visiting their favourite haunt. Most establishments are using wooden planks or iron bases linking the entrance to the street. 
 
 “There are around 86 eateries and restaurants on Church Street, making it a business-oriented space. The government has to take the initiative of allotting an alternative parking space, which will help hoteliers sustain their business. Around 60%-70% of our business is being affected by the lack of a parking facility,” Madhukar M Shetty, secretary,   told TOI. 
 
 Prakash R, manager at sweetmeat shop K C Das, said, “Though we’ll have a parking facility when the TenderSure work is completed, at present, business has been hit by 20%-30% due to non-availability of parking spots and dug-up stretches. Many customers have stopped visiting due to the fear of their vehicles being towed away. Sometimes, we personally guard customers’ vehicles”.
 
 Shivani, a regular at one of the eateries, said, “Church Street is the place to be during weekends, but since the construction started it is difficult to even walk there in the evening. Wires are strewn across the stretch and whenever vehicles pass through, a cloud of dust envelops the road.”
 
 Some continue to park their vehicles amid the mess. “These are haphazardly parked vehicles, which eat into whatever space remains. We are forced to use cabs or park somewhere else and walk,” said M Vidya, another customer.
 
 There are 120-130 establishments on the stretch, including restaurants, bars and shops. Though the work has affected business, it may be good for them in the long run, said Irfan Noor, secretary,  . 
 
 The entire 750m stretch will be pedestrian-friendly with a 2m-wide footpath on both sides and a 5m-wide road made of cobble stones and concrete. Besides, there will be parking space for 32 cars and about 200 two-wheelers.
 
 
