HYDERABAD:   that witnessed repeated, and at times violent protests, by students during the agitation for separate Telangana, on Wednesday nearly suffered a tragedy when a student leader tried to set himself ablaze protesting against the arrest by the police of TJAC chairman Prof M Kodandaram and the government not allowing a   demanding jobs.

 Sandeep Chamar, who completed his graduation in 2009, set the crowd that gathered at the   building on OU campus agog as he rushed to the top of the stairs leading into the building and poured petrol, he carried in a plastic bottle, on himself.
 
 Policemen on the spot rushed up the steps and pinned him down before he do himself anymore harm. He was immediately taken to the Gandhi Hospital following his complaints of vision impairment following his attempt to set himself on fire.
 
 “Students are the once who suffered a lot during the Telangana agitation and now the state has no time to think about us. Our lives haven’t changed a bit and now they are not even allowing us to show our dissent,” Chamar said, adding that these reasons prompted his suicide bid. 
 
 “I am 29 years old and it is very depressing to live of my parents’ money. Even they are worried that even after seven years of graduation, I am not able to find a job,” he said. 
 
 About 70 students who attempted to march from the OU campus to Indira Park, the proposed venue for a public meeting as part of the TJAC protest, were arrested by the police in the campus. The OU campus virtually turned into a police camp with heavy deployment of security forces. Outsiders were not allowed to enter the campus while those inside were not allowed to leave it.
 
 
 
 
 Students on the OU campus, annoyed at being stopped at each stage of their protests on Wednesday, took their ire out on a wooden sign board outside of the   building. “There was a welcome board placed in front of Law College. It is about 20 feet tall and as police were stopping protesters at every step, some of the protesters set in on fire in retaliation,” one student said. Nearly half of the board, with a sign welcoming people, was burnt in the fire.
 
