PUNE: The   have arrested  , one of them a peon from   (SPPU), for allegedly duping at least eight persons by promising them to help get jobs or  .

 The two were arrested following a police complaint by Dilip Anuse (55), a resident of Dhanori who was duped of Rs 3.27 lakh by them on the pretext of helping his sons and a daughter-in-law to get jobs. 
 
 “Prima facie probe revealed that the suspects, Dattatreya More (39) and Vijay More (35), have duped several persons and students. So far, eight people have approached us after being duped,” assistant inspector (Chatushrungi police) Sandesh Kenjale said.
 
 Vijay works as the peon in the SPPU. “His cousin, Dattatreya, is the prime suspect,” the officer said.
 
 Anuse, who was looking for jobs for his two sons and daughter-in-law, came in contact with a person known to Dattatreya. “Anuse met Dattatreya at the university in May 2014. Dattatreya told him that the university was to fill 72 posts of clerks and assured jobs for his two sons and daughter-in-law. He had sought Rs 6 lakh from Anuse,” Kenjale said.
 
 Dattatreya had demanded Rs 2.70 lakh from Anuse as advance and took copies of the educational certificates of the latter’s sons and daughter-in-law. “When Anuse asked Dattatreya about the documents, the latter told him that the papers were given to an SPPU officer,” Kenjale said.
 
 He introduced Anuse to a person and identified the latter as the “officer”, who assured the complainant of all three. “It was later revealed that the ‘officer’ was Dattatreya’s cousin, Vijay,” the police officer added. 
 
 Till December 2014, Anuse gave Rs 4.80 lakh to the suspect. “After a few days, Dattatreya handed over copies of appointment letters and told Anuse that the original letters will be sent by post,” Kenjale said.
 
 “When Anuse’s kin did not get the original letters, he started pursuing Dattatreya. The latter would then pretend to call the ‘SPPU officer’ and keep reassuring Anuse,” he said. 
 
 As a year passed and Anuse’s kin did not receive the appointment letters, he wanted his money back. In 2015, Dattatreya gave him a cheque of Rs 5 lakh. The bank, however, returned the cheque citing insufficient balance. Dattatreya gave Anuse two more cheques. “The bank returned the two cheques on similar grounds. He later returned Anuse Rs 1.53 lakh in cash,” Kenjale said.
 
 As Anuse started demanding the remaining Rs 3.27 lakh, Dattatreya changed his residence. “We arrested Dattatreya from Mahad in Raigad district. We arrested his cousing later after it was revealed he had posed as an SPPU officer,” the police officer added.
 
