That Connaught Place is now a nightlife hub in Delhi comes as a surprise to actor  , who used to visit CP as a child frequently for family dinners and later during college outings. "Our family moved to Dwarka and now our favourite spot for family outings is Gurgaon, so we mostly end up visiting Cyber Hub. I am surprised to see CP change so much. All I remember from my childhood visits are places like Wengers and some restaurants that used to be my father's favourite," says Aru, who has worked in films like '2 States' and 'Wedding Pulao'. 

 
  
  
 
  For 'Wedding Pulao', Aru was shooting in CP and he says that while it was fun for the male actors, the actress had a tough time, as no vanity vans were allowed inside CP and a hotel room was booked for her to get ready. "While we managed to change and do our makeup in our cars, she would go to the hotel from the set, and come again several times during the day," says Aru.
 
  After starting his acting career with theatre and as a plus-size model, Aru moved to Mumbai in 2008, but keeps visiting his family in Delhi quite often. "I end up coming here six to seven times a year, and a December visit is must, as my mother's birthday falls in the same month. I love Delhi winters, Mumbai ki garmi se pareshan ho kar ek baar sardiyon mein yahan aana banta hai," says Aru. 
 
  Talking about his school and college life in Delhi, Aru says that he was always a "healthy, khaate-peete ghar ka ladka", who never shied away from stage performances. "The idea of performing on stage always fascinated me. I was always dancing, doing plays throughout my school and college life," he says.
 
  Reminiscing funny incidents from his college days, Aru says, "There are two incidents from those days that I will never forget. During my college days, we used to go to different colleges to perform at their fests. Once, I went to Maulana Azad Medical College, and it was my first experience of performing in front of an all-girls audience. The stage was designed in such a way that once the lights were on, you could not see anything in the front. When I went up on the stage, it was the first time I saw girls hooting, shouting 'oye mote tu kya naachega, stage todega!' I completely froze and could not perform for a few minutes. But then I thought 'Inko toh main dikhata hoon'. I asked for the music to be replayed and started dancing. There was silence for 10 seconds, and later on, all of them started cheering for me."
 
  He adds, "The second incident was when we went to Gurgaon for a   and hip hop dance performance. It involved lots of lifts and we had a new costume for the act. After our performance was over, a friend walked up to me and said, 'Aru, you showed a lot today.' I thought she was complimenting me, but then she told me that my trousers were torn and everything was visible to the audience! Thankfully, I was wearing undergarments, but when I came out everybody was laughing at me. I still have that photo of myself wearing those torn trousers." 
 
  Aru says that he never felt the need to change anything about his body to be in showbiz. "I have been modelling for a clothes brand, and I even walked a ramp in Mumbai. As far as acting is concerned, I have been mentored by veterans like  , who once told me that you should just be what you are. If there is a need to change ever, I will change for a character, but thankfully, I have been getting good roles. I am working with Shah Rukh Khan in my next film," he tells us.
 
 
