GAYA: Indiscriminate construction of   buildings in the funnel zone (flight approach path) of the   has been identified as the major area of concern for passenger safety. At least half a dozen buildings need early demolition to ease pressure on pilots during landing/take off, particularly in less favourable weather conditions. Several such buildings fall outside the jurisdiction of the urban local bodies and, as such, reining in the violators proves to be somewhat difficult.

 Confirming the perceived threat, Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar said he would soon meet district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi to seek administrative help for dealing with the building menace. Whereas, several property holders have not even obtained the mandatory NOC from the   (AAI), some others have violated the height limit imposed by the authority while issuing the NOC.
 
 In order to simplify the procedure, AAI introduced online NOC system for prospective builders with effect from April 1, 2011. The online procedure is said to be simple and hassle free and yet Gaya builders, by and large, either on account of ignorance or wilful default, do not avail the opportunity.
 
 When contacted, the DM said it was for the airport authority to identify the defaulters and the district administration will extend all help in total or partial demolition of the structures built in violation of the rules.
 
 “Fearing local resistance, airport authorities are reluctant to survey the area and identify defaulters on their own. We need strong administrative involvement in the entire exercise to end the vulnerability of flights landing and taking off from Gaya,” said an airport official.
 
 According to sources, time is running out as the next tourist season is only two and a half months away. The tourist season begins in October and besides regular flights operated by several foreign airlines, including those from Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar and Bhutan, a large number of chartered flights carry foreign tourists/pilgrims. More chartered flights are expected this season as the Dalai Lama is tentatively scheduled to spend two-three weeks in Bodh Gaya this winter. The spiritual leader’s secretary has already contacted district officials in this respect.
 
 In order to facilitate hassle-free travel for foreign tourists, separate facilities, including conveyor belts, have been created for the non-domestic travellers. The airport authorities have also entered into an agreement with  , a private hospital located near the airport, for medical assistance to air travellers in case of emergency.
 
 
