Mumbai: Though the   received a meagre 15.93% of the total vote share in the BMC election, it is interesting to note that in the 31 wards where the party won, its successful candidates received more than 35% of the total votes. 

 In electoral ward 101 (Bandra’s Pali Hill), Congress’s candidate and two-time corporator Asif Zakaria received 44% of total votes polled. The party’s candidate in ward 223 (Princess Dock, Wadi Bunder), Nikita Nikam, beat veteran Waquarunisa Ansari, who had switched from Congress to MIM just ahead of the polls, by 39.09% of vote share. In ward 9 (Borivli), Congress’s 24-year-old Shweta Korgaonkar received 36.65% of the total vote share to beat BJP’s veteran corporator, Mohan Mithbaokar. 
 
 Zakaria’s huge-margin win came despite the BJP fielding a Catholic candidate from the area, Deryek Talker. Zakaria polled 10,587 votes while Talker, who is a local activist, got 6,563 votes. “I come from a ward where people are very involved and aware of most of the civic issues. Therefore, in such kind of a ward, a candidate matters largely. Also, having a direct connect with voters works in one’s favour,” said two-time corporator Zakaria, who is now set for a third term.
 
  resident   said that in municipal elections, candidates matter more than the parties. “The plus point about Zakaria is that he has worked with the people of the area at grassroot level. Therefore, it can be said that he won with such a large vote share because of his track record,” added Kulkarni. 
 
 Congress leader Sanjay   said that in the Borivli ward, from where the young Korgaonkar won, former party corporator Shiva Shetty had worked very hard at the grassroot level. 
 
 “In the 2012 civic elections, Congress received 16% of the total vote share, while this time, we received 15.93% of the vote share. This is despite me fighting as a ‘lone ranger’ and opposition arising from all the sides. In fact, in northwest Mumbai, the party’s district leadership, under former Union minister  , decided to field its own 38 candidates, out of which just one won. I had to intervene at the last minute and get a few seats changed. We won on several of these seats.” 
 
 Speaking on the party’s ‘poor’performance, Nirupam admitted that had Congress leaders worked a bit more, they could have picked up a few more seats.
 
 The civic elections this time saw the Congress’s fortunes sliding as the party managed to win only 31 out of the total 227 seats as compared to 52 in 2012.
 
