LUCKNOW: For once, it was time for bigwigs to stand in queue. Sounding the bugle for assembly elections, candidates of different political parties lined up to file their nomination papers, amid slogan shouting by supporters who even entered into a scuffle with security personnel for not allowing them in at the Collectorate, 10am onwards on Monday. 

 Among the first to arrive was Aparna Yadav, the   candidate from  , accompanied by her husband Prateek Yadav and their daughter. The family of Mulayam Singh Yadav's son attracted huge public attention even as security personnel tried to ensure there was nothing to interrupt her as Aparna filed papers. 
 
 Slogans echoed in the area as candidates of parties with national stature to the newly formed ones like   or   queued up at the office of the district magistrate, wearing garlands and cheered by supporters shooting pictures and videos of the event. Independent candidates arrived on decorated trucks full of supporters beating dhol and dancing.
 
 The din grew louder as the likes of Ravidas Mehrotra, Brajesh Pathak and Nakul Dubey arrived. As SP's Bakshi ka Talab candidate Gomti Yadav arrived, his supporters chanted 'Aaj bharenge kal karenge' and 'Akhilesh, Mulayam hamesha chamkenge.' 
 
 As SP's Lucknow Central candidate Ravidas Mehrotra arrived, his supporters fought with the security personnel to allow them to enter the premises. Similar was the scene when BJP's Lucknow North candidate Neeraj Bora arrived and his supporters tried to gatecrash.
 
 Shortly, workers of the lesser known Bahujan Vijay Party arrived with a donkey which they said was their candidate for Cantt area. With the permission of the district magistrate, security returned them from gate. 
 
 A group of women arrived at 1:15pm shouting 'Rita Didi zindabad' followed by BJP's Lucknow Cantt candidate Rita Bahuguna Joshi. The filing of nomination papers continued till 3pm. A police official said a candidate would be allowed entry even if he or she arrived at 2:59pm, a minute before the closing hour.
 
 A huge LED screen at the entrance of the collectorate was monitoring the activities but the security personnel faced a tough time controlling the crowd of supporters and bystanders in to get a close look of the political leaders. Some trainee police women personnel were admonished by their senior for uploading images of the event on their social media account. The senior even warned them against neglecting duty or else videos of their remaining busy on phone would be shot and reported to higher authorites. 
 
