KOCHI: The district consumer disputes   has ordered an   entrance   in Ernakulam to refund the tuition fee of a student who was forced to discontinue the course after the centre failed to keep the promises that were printed in its brochure.

 The complainant, Aparna S Menon, approached the forum against RR Career Entrance Coaching that functions in Kochi through her mother as she is a minor. In her complaint in 2015, she said that the centre failed to provide the coaching services it promised.
 
 The centre had conducted an advance common career aptitude test to select students for coaching and the girl had secured the first rank. The centre promised a scholarship of Rs 15,000, which was deductible from the total fee of Rs 82,900. She was asked to pay Rs 66,900 as coaching fee of two years. A cheque was given for the fee amount.
 
 The brochure given by the centre promised a host of tests including conducting test papers after each and every chapter, board examination twice a year, model entrance examination that would follow the pattern of IIT-JEE,   and Kerala Entrance examination. The centre, in its brochure, claimed that 96% of its students secured admission in the engineering and medical examinations.
 
 Aparna said the centre failed to fulfil the promises it offered and she was forced to discontinue her studies after a year. She later joined another institution in Thrissur.
 
 “Imparting education by affiliated universities cannot be termed as service. While imparting education by unaffiliated institutions is termed as service and thereby comes under the jurisdiction of consumer forum. There is a Supreme Court order in this regard, I do not recollect it right now. Hence, the failure in upholding the promises made by the centre can be termed as a deficiency in service,” consumer forum president Cherian K Kuriakose said.
 
 Consumer forum receives many complaints against centres that give coaching in logistics management and marine engineering since they impart shoddy education and fail to keep promises, he added. The centre did not appear in the forum to contest the matter. The forum ordered a refund of Rs 28,292 for period she had discontinued her studies.
 
 Coaching centre director Ratheesh V C said: “There might have been different opinions among students regarding teaching quality. Whenever they point out mistakes, we rectify the same. We had shifted our office and that’s why we didn’t receive the intimation from the forum. We will appeal against the order at the state forum.”
 
