NAGPUR: Union minister   and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis have finalized that the inter model station (IMS) will come up at Ajni and the logistic hub will be constructed at Khapri. Totally, both will cost an estimated Rs 1,400 crore. 

 Fadnavis said that the Central Jail will be shifted out of the city making available 150 acres in the heart of Nagpur. Gadkari added that the four road corridors from city to Indore,  , Solapur and Surat will be connected under the central government’s Bharat Mala Scheme.
 
 These decisions were taken at a meeting organized with the officials of Bharat Mala Scheme, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Mahametro in the city on Friday.
 
 In April, Gadkari had announced plans to develop IMS — a centralized and integrated infrastructure facility linking bus stop, metro station and railway station in the city and PM Narendra Modi’s assembly constituency of Varanasi. Then, he had said it would be either at Ajni or Khapri.
 
 The NHAI gave a presentation on IMS in the meeting. Bharat Mala Scheme chief general manager Manoj Kumar said IMS was suitable at Ajni. 
 
 “Indian Railways has 450 acres land at Ajni. IMS requires 50-60 acres land. Ajni has a railway station and the construction of Metro rail station is also going on close by. The city bus service can be easily connected to Ajni. Also, the airport is closer to Ajni. The IMS will have a multi-level parking and also commercial shops,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis said Central Jail’s land can be also used for IMS when it moves out. Gadkari said HPCL was shifting its depot from Khapri to outside the city “so that land can be an ideal place for a logistic hub”.
 
 Gadkari directed Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit to prepare a plan for Metro rail phase-II extending the network to Kanhan, Butibori, Koradi and Kapsi. “I will ensure commercial place is made available for extension of Metro rail corridors. The NHAI is constructing a new bridge on Kanhan river. Mahametro should consult NHAI and include a Metro rail corridor on it to prevent from additional expense in future,” he said.
 
 Gadkari said the support of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Metro Region Development Authority (NMRDA) will be taken in IMS and logistic hub projects.
 
 Assuring full support from the state government for all the proposed projects, Fadnavis said work orders should be completed so that bhoomi puja all these mega infrastructure projects will be done before March next year.
 
 Guardian minister Chandreshekar Bawankule, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar, collector  , MP Vikas Mahatme, legislators Anil Sole, Sudhakar Deshmukh, Prakash Gajbhiye and officials of NHAI and Mahametro were present.
 
