Many traditional art forms have benefited by adopting technology. And poetry is no different. Not only have smartphones made it easier to find and gather other poets, but they also help you jot down lines and thoughts on the go, eliminating the need to carry a book and pen around everywhere you go. Apart from this, the online space has also helped poets reach a wider audience, ensuring that more people view their work, and perhaps, even open up new venues.

 
 
 Aditya Mankad, a spoken-word poet, has been writing poetry since 2013. For around a year, he has been reaching a wider audience through his channel on   — a medium that not many poets in the city have been considering. “Around five years ago, standup comedy was niche in the art community and YouTube played a major role in helping it flourish as comics got more exposure and opportunities just by putting their acts online. There are not a lot of spoken-word poets that do this, as they may not have the resources to do so or don’t think that they can have productive output on such a platform. Poets in Mumbai have been doing this and have been very successful as well, but this is not a regular feature in Bengaluru,” says Aditya.
 
 Considering there is a large community of poets in the city, there is a lot of opportunity for poets here to explore the online space. So, what are the basics that one must keep in mind when putting up their work online? “Content is a given. The chances of your content getting shared more often depends on how niche it is. Audio and video also plays a huge role in spoken-word poetry as it is more about performance and having a dialogue, as compared to an on-page poem. Apart from this, the quality of the video has to be good, which also plays a big role in people picking up the content and sharing it on social media,” says Aditya.
 Another advantage that can come out of posting poems online is the opportunity to showcase the work in other avenues, such as cafés and pubs. “Musicians and standup comics perform at cafés and pubs, and they have managed to do this by getting a lot of traction from the videos that they post online. Spoken-word poets haven’t got there yet. But hopefully that will change this year,” adds Aditya.
 
 
  
 
 
  of Write Out Loud is a poetry novice, considering that he has been writing for only around a year, but at the age of 47, he’s old-school when it comes to how he puts down his thoughts. So, while a lot of younger poets prefer putting thumb to a mobile screen and typing out their poems on the go, without having to worry about fishing out a book and pen, Olivier prefers to put pen to paper to chronicle the struggle of writing a poem. But he cannot deny that smartphones complement the writing process. “When we discussed the role of smartphones recently, we found that writing on the phone makes it more like a gesture, but there is no doubt that mobile phones are pretty handy since they are compact and, with you at all times. So, if you see something and are inspired, you can take out your phone and write down your thoughts,” says Olivier.
 There are also other aspects of writing on smartphones that make it interesting. For e.g., as a lot of young writers in the discussion felt that poetry become cooler with the use of emoticons.
 
 There was a time when people thought that with the increase in the number of mobile phones, words would be lost and people would choose to talk to each other instead. But, Olivier says, the contrary has happened as people are using mobile phones to share their work through social media. “A lot of cra*p is written on phones, such as LOL, but there are also people who are trying to play with alliteration and making rhymes, and sending them through messages,” he says. Technology has, therefore, not thwarted poetry, but has made it more popular.
 
