CHENNAI: The National Green Tribunal on Tuesday came down heavily on the lack of progress by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) in removing   which was dumped in 300 acres of  . 

 NGT South Zone judicial member justice P Jyothimani and technical member P S Rao ordered the removal of fly ash within a week from the creek area. If the TANGEDCO failed to remove the dumped waste, both the units would be shut down at the next hearing. 
 
 Further the order said that all the leaks from the fly ash pipes have to be plugged with immediate effect. The corporation should submit a plan to replace all old pipes. It also directed that the errant TANGEDCO officials to be prosecuted under Air and Water (Prevention and Control of)  . Advocate Lakshmi Narasimhan has been appointed by the NGT to oversee the removal of fly ash from the creek.
 
 It further said that a Committee must be set up to assess the impacts to creek, mangroves, Buckingham Canal, and other vegetation and fauna, and that this Committee must include environmental experts, soil specialists, hydrologists.
 
 Activists said the first unit of the TANGEDCO became operational from 1995 and the fly ash is dumped in the creek since then.
 
 The salt pans functioning in the area became the first victim of fly ash dumping. A case was filed against it in the  . But, the TANGEDCO got a favorable order in this regard.
 
 Then the second victim of the waste dumping is the fishermen in and around Ennore. They used to catch fish from the creek, which provided them some income. With the increase in dumping of fly ash in the creek area, there was no scope for inter-tidal movement, which brought in fish into the creek.
 
 Fly ash not only affected the salt pans and the fishermen, it also destroyed the mangrove forests, which acted as a bio-shield against cyclones and other natural calamities. 
 
 The illegal dumping also resulted in flooding of areas during rains in and around Ennore. It also affected ground water table. The problems created due to the presence of thermal power state, people in Ennore and its surrounding villages were forced to leave the area, complained one of the residents.
 
 Even as the NGT is issuing orders to clear the fly ash from the creek area, the state is further proposing to take over more than 1,000 acres of creek into a real estate for  . The proposal is pending with the government, activists said. 
 
