VISAKHAPATNAM: The   Happy Streets was more about music and dance. While at one end of Beach Road one could hear melodious guitar strumming, at the other end zestful Zumba beats kept the crowd tapping their feet to fitness moves.

 The fun and fitness games continued this week too. Archery, snakes and ladders, basketball, volleyball, street cricket, cycling, and skating continued as usual with children and adults enthusiastically participating in large numbers.
 
 After the tranquil mood set in by yoga and meditation sessions early in the day, it was time for music and dance. At the stage near YMCA, the band Revelations strummed music of Pehla Nasha or New York Nagaram while at the stage near RK Beach, it was peppy notes of ‘Chitiya Kalaiya’ and ‘Saiyan ji se aaj maine break up kar liya’ accompanied by Zumba moves to which the young adults swayed.
 
 V Vaundhara, a young homemaker, said, “This is the first time I came to   and found the wonderful  . I couldn’t help but join in with the foot-tapping numbers being played in the background.”
 
 Since Happy Streets is about promoting health and fitness through various activities, workouts and sports, as if to complement all these, organic vegetables, foodstuff, healthy tea and other beverages were sold along Beach Road. Basic health check-ups including blood pressure, fasting and random blood sugar were also conducted.
 
 Many were bowled over by various colourful events. D Navya, a students of electrical engineering at  , said “I love doing photography on Beach Road. So much of colourful life one gets to see around.”
 
 Another event, chalk painting on the streets, also brought out the talent of several schoolchildren, who gave wings to their creativity and drew various themes from nature and culture. “Since I love painting and drawing, today I did chalk-art of kites because it’s Sankranti time,” said K Rajesh, class VI student of Oxford English School. 
 
 Organised by The Times of India, Happy Streets is an initiative by   and GVMC and is presented by AP Tourism in association with Vaibhav Jewellers, Vignan Group of Institutions and Oakridge International School.
 
 
