Kolkata: The new grass pitch at the refurbished Salt Lake stadium is ready for sterling displays of skill by future football stars when it hosts the eight matches in the under-17 Fifa   this October. But there will be some interesting dribbling far away from the stadium.

 This off-pitch action will happen at the Kolkata  , where the authorities will be required to juggle around with the limited parking bays in order to accommodate the sudden influx of aircraft.
 
 While this nifty tiki-taka will come in handy while juggling with the additional planes on the already crowded tarmac, playing the long pass to Andal airport in Durgapur or Bhubaneswar in the neighbouring state seems inevitable.
 
 From early October, the Kolkata airport is expected to get considerably busier, with four teams touching down for the group matches, followed by two teams each prior to the round of 16 on October 17 and the quarterfinal on October 22. But the biggest challenge will be around October 26-27 before the final and third-fourth place playoff on October 28, when teams, fans, celebrities and business magnates are expected to arrive for the D-day.
 
 “We don’t have any problem handling traffic during the day. But if planes want to park overnight, it will be difficult as we don’t have any space to spare at present,” said Kolkata airport director Atul Dikshit.
 
 Surge in air travel in the past couple of years and a large number of additions in early-morning and late-night flights has led to demand for night parking. Of the 51 bays at Kolkata airport, 33 are occupied at night. The rest are kept operational for flights that arrive and take off at night, for exigencies, and VIP movement. 
 
 Till now, officials at Kolkata airport have not had to handle the pressure of a sudden spike in flights due to the absence of big-ticket events in the city. Even during the Bengal Global Business Summit in January and Kolkata’s matches in the Indian Premier League in April-May, there is no additional demand for parking bays.
 
 The World Cup is expected to change that. Featuring players who will be future football stars, the matches are expected to draw audiences from far and wide. Apart from planes that fly in the teams, fans are expected to arrive in chartered planes. In addition, celebrities and businessmen are sure to zip down to the city for the final. Mukesh and Nita Ambani are expected to arrive in their Airbus A319 aircraft. “Kolkata airport will try to accommodate small planes. But for narrow-body aircraft like Airbus A 320 and Boeing B 737 and bigger aircraft, night parking will be a challenge. We are in the process of launching a project on expanding the parking bay capacity. But it will take at least a year for a part of the facility to be ready,” said Dikshit.
 
 The Rs 80-crore project involves setting up of 23 parking bays to the east of the runway along Narayanpur. That will take the parking bay count to 74. Soil testing is expected to start soon and tenders will be floated in a couple of months. Apart from the bays, the project also includes vehicle lane, safety lane, push back zone and taxi track.
 
 
