SHIMLA: Issue of vacant posts in government health institutions of   increased the temperature during question hour in the assembly. While   legislators alleged that despite thousands of vacant posts, health minister Kaul Singh Thakur is patting his back, the latter retaliated by saying that compared to previous BJP regime, present government has filled more seats during last four years.

 BJP MLA Mahender Singh Thakur asked about the steps taken by the government to fill the vacant posts in health institutions. While replying, Kaul Singh Thakur said that posts in health institutions were lying vacant for last 20-25 years. He said that present   government has filled 550 posts of doctors, appointed 1,250 nurses and created 3,248 posts, while BJP during its tenure had not created a single post of doctor and created only 473 posts. He said posts of pharmacists, lab technicians and others have also been filled by Congress. 
 
 He said that government has taken a decision of approving eight posts of doctors in 50 bedded-hospitals and many posts for cabinet have been created for 50 to 100 bedded-hospitals. He requested the members to wait for the budget as chief minister  , who also holds finance portfolio, has been requested to create more posts.
 
 BJP legislator Dr Rajeev Bindal said health minister was doing politics on every issue. He said of the 22,000 posts, 9087 posts are lying vacant and Kaul Singh is patting his back. He said earlier 1,597 posts were created but less posts of doctors have been filled now. He said 1,085 posts are vacant at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, 524 in Dr   Medical College and Hospital, Tanda, 1,712 in Nahan, 773 at Ner Chowk Medical College in Mandi while in Chamba only one post has been filled while 200 posts are still vacant.
 
 On this, Kaul Singh replied that Medical Council of India has expressed satisfaction on the existing posts at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, and Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda. He said required posts for the first year MBBS course at Nahan have been filled. 
 
 Ravinder Singh Ravi, BJP legislator, asked when the vacant posts of doctors would be filled at Dehra hospital to which the minister said it will be done when new batch of doctors comes.
 
 
