KOLKATA: For some,  's suggestion that all educational institutes could replicate   and St   apolitical model of student union elections, sounded ironical, given that she herself cut her teeth at politics with campus activism. However, the Xavier's and IIEST heads welcomes the proposal, saying the move would definitely bring about a change on campuses.

 This was not the first time that Mamata mooted the suggestion. The push for campus electoral reforms began in 2013 when prodded by her, then education minister Bratya Basu proposed a debate on a key Lyngdoh Commission recommendation, to dissociate politics from union activities. The draft was then loosely modelled on the practice followed at IIEST, then called BESU, where the union was replaced by a senate, a move that reportedly restored calm on the restive campus. The draft also proposed that a students' union be renamed a council, polls be not fought on political symbols and academics nominate the president and vicepresident of councils. The draft aimed at preventing students' bodies from turning into political party power centres.
 
 But even the ruling party refused to accept and it could be a reason for Mamata to say on Thursday it was a suggestion: “This is my personal opinion. I will have to talk to the education minister first.“ But now, TMCP seems ready to comply . “I support the CM. We don't see political colour in development,“ said TMCP president Jaya Dutta.
 
 Hailing the proposal, IIEST VC Ajay Ray said, “We did not impose any decision on the students. Instead, we made them stakeholders. The students and administration together prepared the students' senate resolution.“ Echoing him, St Xavier's College principal Felix Raj said, “If implemented, the system will bring about a change. Councils should be apolitical. Students should be given space to think freely and participate in other academic activities. We should help them become leaders, in all walks of life.“
 
 Shiuli Sarkar, principal at Lady Brabourne College, where the same model is followed, said, “Candidates should be allowed to contest union polls based on her ability and attendance.“
 
 But SFI state president Madhuja Sen Roy ridiculed the suggestion: “The CM is right in her own way as the TMC doesn't want students to be politically aware. She thinks unions are involved in organizing socials and Saraswati Pujas. Our work is way broader, to develop a sense of democracy among students.“
 
 Even CP state president Koustav Bagchi said, “We are against undemocratic ways.“
 
