NAGPUR: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducted Class XII biology exam on Wednesday, which left many students unhappy. A majority of students were not satisfied with their performance. Overall, the paper evoked not so good reactions from the students.

 While analyzing the paper, Shomali Bannerjee, teacher at Modern School, Koradi, said that the paper was definitely not for average students. “The questions from genetics were really good and straight forward. Students should be able to score good in them. But the main issue was with the reproduction section as the questions were application-based and quite tough. For those who want to score more than 90 marks, it will be a bit difficult,” she said.
 
 However, she said that nothing was from out of the syllabus.
 
 While talking to TOI, student Tanvi Bhatia said that she found the paper very lengthy. “Completing the entire paper in three hours was very difficult for me because it was really tough and lengthy. I wasted a lot of time thinking about how to solve long questions as they were very  ,” she said.
 
 Similar was the reaction of Mani Sharma, who said that she encountered some problems in short questions. “They were so confusing and not straight forward. It was a medium kind of a paper. The long questions from the reproduction chapter were difficult as well,” she added.
 
 Her friend Mona Rathore, who was standing besides her, said, “I found long questions very hard. I could not even complete the paper on time and skipped a few questions. I am a bit upset now as the paper was totally confusing. My performance was also not up to the mark.”
 
 However,   said that the paper was an average one. “As I saw the paper, I got tensed. But after some time, I managed to solve many of them. The short questions were quite tough and tricky as they left me confused. But overall, the paper was okay for me,” she said.
 
 “I would say that the paper was not that bad. However, it contained some tricky questions. But that doesn’t mean it was tough. This is what you expect in board exams. So, the paper was average overall. I am sure that whatever I attempted is correct,” said Manmeet Kaur, another student.
 
 Paper toughness: Medium
 
 Relevance: Straight forward
 
 Length: Proper
 
 
