MUMBAI: In December 2016, the   ordered that the popular system of college and   tying up to offer an integrated learning space be stopped. 

 The   recently carried out sting operations in three city colleges and found that   was still ‘flourishing’. “It’s a Rs 500-crore scam and school education officers are turning a blind eye towards it,” said Sainath Durge, core committee member of Yuva Sena. “Each class is charging Rs 2.5 lakh-Rs 3 lakh fees.” 
 
 Last July, the Maharashtra Class Owners’ Association had moved the HC demanding that their peers, who run classes integrated with colleges, be disallowed. Through a writ petition, it had challenged the new approach that the colleges and coaching classes have devised—tutorials and colleges join hands to offer an integrated programme—and named four colleges, including Sri T P Bhatia College of Science Junior College in Kandivli, where such programmes were on. Recently, the association had submitted a list of 43 city colleges offering integrated coaching.
 
 The  , in its affidavit submitted to HC, had claimed the integrated programme to prepare students for the competitive IIT entrance exam run by the Kandivli college has been closed. The institute had tied up with Rao IIT Academy to offer additional coaching. Contrary to what the state had claimed, the college and the tutorial continue to offer integrated coaching. In fact, the day the HC directed the state to crack down on such arrangements, TOI had carried out a sting operation and officials at T P Bhatia had claimed that the integrated form of coaching was on.
 
 “Ths is a systematic racket of running integrated courses...violating provisions of the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1987. It is obvious that students are joining such courses under compulsion,” said Narendra Bhambwani, former vice-president of the association. Explaining the modus operandi that institutes employ, he added, “Colleges enter into a commercial arrangement with private coaching classes and allow them to run on their premises. Accordingly, students are required to pay hefty fees...In some cases, students are coached on the coaching classes’ premises and the college authorities mark them present in class.”
 
 
