Pune: Passengers travelling on the Mumbai CST-Hyderabad Express had a narrow escape on Tuesday when the train’s engine got derailed after being hit by a boulder at Monkey Hill between Karjat and Lonavla stations. It is suspected that the boulder came loose due to a landslide. 

 The incident, which resulted in four Pune-bound trains getting delayed by 3-4 hours, happened around 3.30pm, railway officials said. Three trains headed for Pune — Madras Express, Konark Express and Kanyakumari Express — were delayed by three hours. Sources said trains such as Pragati Express, Deccan Queen and Sahyadri Express coming to Pune were set to be delayed by nearly four hours.
 
 “The train (number 17031) had passed Karjat station and was moving uphill towards Lonavla, which was the next stop. Near the Monkey Hill technical halt, the train was hit by a boulder which pushed the engine off the tracks. Only the engine was derailed. There were around 1,000 passengers on the train at the time,” a railway official told TOI. 
 
 The spot where the incident occurred comes under the Mumbai division of Central Railway, and is commonly known as the Khandala ghat area. The train starts from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus in Mumbai at 12.45pm and reaches Pune station at 4.30pm. 
 
 “We are still confirming, but we suspect that the incident was caused by a landslide. The area comes under the Karjat-Khandala-Lonavla section of the Mumbai division,” Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson of the Pune railway division, told TOI. He said the boulder was removed from the tracks around 5.45pm and a “relief” train was dispatched from Kalyan. 
 
 Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Sangh, said an engine is attached to the rear of the train after Karjat to help it go uphill to Lonavla. “The trains pass through 27 tunnels between Karjat and Lonavla. The entire route is hilly terrain, and there is a deep gorge on the other side,” she said.
 
 Officials said the derailed engine did not suffer much damage as it was chugging uphill at low speed. “In fact, the same engine continued pulling the train after it was put back on the tracks. Although the down track is safe, drivers have been advised to adhere to a speed limit of 30kmph,” an official said.
 
 
