PUNE: The Airport police are searching for a   agent who is suspected to be behind the forged building   that was submitted to the Lohegaon gram panchayat recently for securing a no-objection certificate (NOC) for a housing project. 

 The NOC is critical to securing the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s final approval to the project. The plan related to a 12-apartment project proposed to be developed on a 6,000sqft land on the Lohegaon-Dhanori Road falling under the Lohegaon gram panchayat.
 
 The   plan carried forged signatures of Lohegaon sarpanch Shweta Kale and fake rubber stamps of the gram panchayat. 
 
 Kale lodged an FIR on Tuesday when the   came to light during the scrutiny of the document. 
 
 After questioning an architect, whose name was mentioned on the forged document, his team and 13 others, the police on Thursday secured the 7/12 revenue extract of the land from the Lohegaon talathi office to secure identity of the land owner(s). This revealed that the land was purchased by six retired employees of the Indian Air Force (IAF) from a farmer in Lohegaon. “We have summoned these six people for questioning on Friday,” police inspector Vilas Sonde told TOI. 
 
 Sonde, who is probing the case, said, “The joint owners of the land wanted to develop the housing project, but they realised that it was an agricultural land and no development can be carried out unless it’s user purpose was changed to that of a non-agricultural (NA) plot. Hence, they had hired services of a property   for getting the NA certificate job done, besides seeking the services of the architect to get the building plan done.”
 
 A senior police officer associated with the probe said, “We   the agent might have taken a short cut to bypass the NA procedure. The land owners did not appear to be aware about the nitty gritty of agriculture and NA land and NOC requirement. They were also not aware about what the agent was up to.”
 
 In the last two days, the police collected all documents related to the land from the revenue and registrar’s offices and located the owners. The forged building plan was submitted to the gram panchayat in April. 
 
