CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has claimed that   chief   had neither sought any permission for bringing private security guards, nor any authority granted permission to carry them along while coming to Panchkula to attend the court hearing on August 25.

 It has also been claimed by the state that six private security guards had entered Panchkula with the dera chief on the date of pronouncement of the order in a rape case. This information was provided to the Punjab and Haryana high court by Geeta Bharti, special secretary (home), Haryana, on behalf of the state government. It was further stated that all six private guards booked under various sections, including sedition, attempt to murder and other charges, were Pritam Singh, Randhir Singh, Khusbir Singh, Randeep Singh, all belong to Haryana, and   and Jagsir Singh of Punjab. It added that only Randhir, Chamkor and Jagsir were carrying weapons and three of them had been arrested while Chamkor, Jagsir and Randeep were still at large.
 
 Advocate General (AG), Haryana, Baldev Raj Mahajan told the HC that a total of 274 FIRs had been registered in the state with regard to the dera violence and as many as 1,276 persons had been arrested in this regard. Some persons had been arrested in more than one case, making the total arrests to be 1,862, the AG stated.
 
 Mahajan further assured the court that any case registered regarding the incident would not be cancelled without HC’s permission. He also told the HC that a special investigation team (SIT) headed by ADGP (crime) P K Aggarwal had been constituted to investigate, supervise and monitor the FIRs registered related to the incident.
 
 Punjab AG Atul Nanda also informed the HC that a SIT headed by director of   (BOI), Punjab, would supervise the investigation of cases registered during dera violence in Punjab. Other members of the SIT include IGPs/Zone Bathinda, Patiala and IGP (crime-I) BOI. Nanda also submitted that Rs 169 crore had been spent by the state police to handle the dera problem. He further submitted that the total loss to the government property was worth around Rs 1.28 crore while that in case of private properties was Rs 38 lakh incurred during the violence.
 
