KOLKATA:   are willing to cough up a fortune to hire top architects and design consultants, but shy away from spending a fraction of the project cost on fire safety systems. Speaking to TOI a day after the fire at 12, Pretoria Street, fire safety consultant   revealed that convincing well-known developers to accord priority to fire safety remained one of the biggest challenges in Kolkata. 

 “Fire consultants like us are hired not to secure a building against fire hazard but to ensure that the building does not falter when there is an inspection for fire safety compliance before the completion certificate is issued,” said Chakraborty.
 
 According to fire safety expert Sekhar Dey, the general perception among developers, as well as companies and individuals that buy or lease space in a new building, is that it will be free of any hazard for 15-20 years. Thursday’s fire proved otherwise. The building by Aspirations, a reputable real estate firm, was constructed only four years ago. 
 
 “That fire detection and fire fighting systems did not function in a building as young as this should be shocking. But it is not because safety against fire is not a priority at any level. The developer puts the systems in place because the norms require him to do so. Those who take over the building management thereafter don’t bother either because until a fire occurs, no one realises the threat,” said Dey.
 
 At 12, Pretoria Street, development firm Aspirations installed fire alarms, sprinklers and hydrants but did not enter into an annual maintenance contract for their upkeep. The facility management firm did not recruit a fire safety officer trained by the fire services to tackle exigencies. With zero maintenance and no periodic checks, the fire detection and fighting equipment were merely furniture in the building and of no use when the fire raged on Thursday. 
 
 The fire department cannot absolve itself of responsibilities either. It is supposed to renew a fire approval certificate annually after ensuring that the requisite measures are in place. Yet, no one visited Aspirations Vintage in the past three years.
 
 But it is the occupants’ lack of concern despite the risk to life that has puzzled fire safety experts. Office and apartment owners splurge on Italian marble, American sanitaryware, German bath fittings and Japanese gardens, but completely ignore fire safety. Hardly any building has a fire safety officer even though it is mandatory to have one. Thus, the equipment that are installed are not maintained and tested. 
 
 “In a commercial building, employing two fire safety officers for round-the-clock duty costs around Rs 20,000 a month while it is Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000 in a residential building. The officers have to check the water level in the reservoir, operate the pump for five minutes and put it on auto mode daily, inspect fire alarms, hydrant system and sprinkler system for pressure once in three months and use the public address system to conduct fire drills every month. If these measures are followed, there will be no loss of life and property damage will be limited,” said Dey.
 
 
