PUNE: The three army havildars arrested in the army recruitment   case had also leaked the recruitment exam paper in March last year, investigations by the Thane crime branch have revealed.

 The probe has found that the three havildars, who are from the   (ARO), had sold last year’s paper for Rs 50 lakh to another arrested suspect,  , who runs an academy at Phaltan in Satara district.
 
 A senior police officer involved with the investigations told TOI, “We have information that about 50 students from Shinde’s coaching class were recruited in the Indian Army last year. We are investigating how many of them had got the leaked paper.”
 
 The officer said the three havildars — Ravinder Kumar, Dharamvir Singh and Nigam Kumar Pandey — are the main conspirators behind this year’s paper leak. “They were involved with private coaching classes mainly located in western Maharashtra. This year, the trio had struck a deal of selling the question paper to Shinde for Rs 1.35 crore. They were to get the money after the aspirants were placed in the army,” he added.
 
 The probe has also found that Shinde was regularly in contact with the havildars and had also gifted them costly mobile phones in the recent past.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police   of the Thane crime branch, who is heading the investigations, said, “We found Rs 21 lakh in cash and jewellery from Shinde’s bank locker. He had taken the education documents of the aspirants to ensure that they pay him after getting recruited in the army.”
 
 Manere said the question paper is usually dispatched in a CD format to the ARO for printing. “The three havildars compromised the printer system and auto-saved the paper. They took out a print, photographed it and sent it to Shinde and the other suspects, including a lance naik, over a mobile app. The other two serving army personnel who have been arrested had mainly lured aspirants with the leaked paper,” he said.
 
 Army sources said the appointment of lower rank army personnel at the ARO has to be done carefully in future. “In the past, the appointments in the ARO used to be of officer-rank personnel who were due for promotion. It is necessary to reduce human interference in the recruitment process,” they added.
 
 
