After celebrating various Indian food themes earlier, the enthusiastic food community of India is ready to come together to celebrate #ChutneyDay today. A ubiquitous element on every thali, be it the everyday green chutney or the dry powder chutneys, the regional Indian cuisine offers a variety of chutneys to brighten up the most boring meal. Spicy, tangy or sweet they are sure to add a dash of zing to any feast while evoking the taste of home for those in faraway land.
Food consultant   who has initiated the celebration of Indian food observance days as per the seasonal food calendar of Indian cuisine had appealed to the larger food community to come together and collectively document 250 traditional, regional and community based chutneys from across India.
 As part of the initiative Rushina roped in students from a catering institute in the city to rustle up some traditional family recipes for chutneys. The students worked tirelessly for two weeks on this project of recipe documentation and presentation, and the final 50 chutneys were on display at the institute on Friday. Innovatively served with papad, khakra, bhakri, dosa, crackers and more, the guests including food bloggers and judges who had to select ten winners had a gala time tasting a variety of chutneys each different from the other. Rushina says, “The objective of doing this for #ChutneyDay was driven by the fact when I realised that the hospitality students are quite involved with the commercial kitchen, but they do not give as much importance to the home kitchen. So the faculty and I got together and came up with this plan where I gave the students a lecture on documenting traditional recipes that come in pinches and handfuls. They were then asked to go home and document one chutney recipe each which they showcased. Everyone who got a chance to taste, learnt about new chutneys with ingredients we couldn’t have imagined of and it turned out to be a true learning experience for everyone.”
 You too can try making these unusual chutney recipes today and contribute to #ChutneyDay.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3/4 cup kashk (little balls of dried yogurt), 1 onion, 1-2 tsp dried mint leaves, 1 tbsp ghee, a pinch of turmeric, water as required
 
 
 
 (Recipe by  , student)
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 100 gms Thimare (brahmi leaves), 35-40 gms coconut (shredded), 3-4 green chillies, ½ inch ginger, 6-8 gms tamarind, jaggery to taste, salt to taste, water as required, 2-3 tsp oil, ½ tsp mustard seeds, 2-3 dry red chilles 
 
 
 
 (Recipe by  , student)
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 gms watermelon (finely chopped), 100 ml watermelon juice, 3 gms mustard seeds, 3-4 curry leaves, 50 gms tomatoes (finely chopped), 5 gms salt, 4 gms black pepper powder, 10 ml oil
 
 
 
 (Recipe by  , student)
 
 
 
