CHENNAI: The slipping of fiscal targets does not augur well for Tamil Nadu's economy as the government's rating will take a hit and due to this the interest rate on future borrowings may rise if the present situation continues. The government has not taken any step to lower the deficit in the revenue account, which shows that it is living beyond its means. 

 With the GST scheduled to be rolled out on July 1, Tamil Nadu is likely to be dependent completely on the Centre for its finances. The last time when the state slipped the fiscal deficit mark of 3% of the GSDP was in 2010-11, but experts say that was due to the global meltdown and revenues took a hit in countries across the world that year. 
 
 "Tamil Nadu is going through a difficult situation both financially and politically. The unstable political situation will have a bearing on the economy, with no fresh investments coming in and the government machinery not working to its full capacity. All these will reflect on the revenue collection," New Delhi-based National Institute of Public Finance and Policy professor N R Bhanumurthy told TOI. 
 
 The 14th Finance Commission has been tough on states which violate the fiscal discipline. "If a state is violating the fiscal parameters of fiscal deficit, interest payments and total debt then it is in for trouble as its ratings may be revised. Tamil Nadu has reached the stage of violating the 3% margin as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. It is within safe limits with regard to interest and debt," said Bhanumurthy. 
 
 But debt in absolute terms has been on the rise and so are the interest payments. "It is time the government sat up and took a hard look at its finances. If the present situation continues for two more years the government may even moving towards a debt trap. GST impact is also a warning for the government to mend its ways," said the fiscal economics professor.
 
 A comparison of the budgets presented by the Karnataka and Tamil Nadu governments shows the former's finances are healthy despite chief minister Siddaramaiah doling out freebies on the lines of Tamil Nadu. The difference is that Karnataka expects a revenue surplus of 137 crore in its revenue account whereas Tamil Nadu expects a deficit of 15,930 crore. 
 
 Similarly, the fiscal deficit of Karnataka is expected to be 33,359 crore, which is 2.61% of the GSDP, while Tamil Nadu's fiscal deficit is estimated to be 41,976 crore, against 61,341 crore. 
 
 State finance secretary K Shanmugam, in his post-budget press conference, said more than 6,000 crore has to be received from the Centre and added that no other state is spending so much on welfare schemes as Tamil Nadu.
 
