LUCKNOW: Showcasing a remarkable improvement in its performance, Banaras Hindu University ( ) was ranked third among top universities in the   (NIRF) of   released by the Union ministry of human resource and development on Monday. However, its overall   was 10th on the list. 

 Among UP’s institutions IIT-Kanpur is on top with 7th overall ranking while AMU is at 19th place. IIM-Lucknow has got a 51st overall ranking. In university category, AMU has slipped from 10th to 11th position. Allahabad University has slipped to 95th position from 84th last year. Lucknow’s King Georges Medical University (KGMU) which was ranked 16th among university in 2016 has not been able to make it to top 100 this year.
 
 The HRD ministry released the first-of-its-kind indigenous ranking framework for higher educational institutions under the name of 'India Rankings' last year in which BHU was ranked at seventh position among universities. On Monday, HRD minister Prakash Javadekar released the second list of India Rankings in which higher educational institutions in universities, engineering, management and pharmacy categories were evaluated and judged on judged on five broad parameters including teaching, learning and resources (TLR), research, professional practice and collaborative performance (RPC), graduation outcome (GO), outreach and exclusivity (OI) and perception (PR).
 
 As per the report, Bengaluru-based IISC and JNU New Delhi has bagged top two positions respectively. The overall ranking of BHU is tenth with 58.92 as its score. The scores on various parameters are as follows – 47.85 in TLR, 49.96 in RPC, 94.36 in GO, 62.97 in OI and 44.01 in PR. It is the IIT Roorkee that elbowed past BHU with a score of 59.84. 
 
 BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh that increased and extensive research work being carried out in varsity helped improve its rankings. However, he said that BHU cannot be compared to any other university considering its teachings ranging from art and science to Ayurveda and technology. “BHU is one university that is a treasure trove of everything be it in field of art or science or technology or teaching values and Sanskrit. It is a whole university unlike others which specialize in only science and technology or research,” he said while congratulating the faculty, students, alumni and administrative staff for their consistent efforts.
 
 Under the engineering category, IIT-Kanpur bagged 5th position by securing a score of 76.83. Here, BHU has gone down to 31st place from 14th in 2016. Allahabad-based MNNIT, too, slipped down to 41st position from 23rd in 2016. Under the management category, Lucknow’s IIM has made it to the fourth top-ranking institution with a score of 71.58. In 2016 too, IIM-L was ranked 4th. IIT-Kanpur has bagged 11th position from last year’s 9th. BHU in this category has bagged 24th rank.
 
 
