When it comes to the latest technology, they are the first ones to know. They multi-task between studies and hobbies, making it all look really simple. Students today are not shy to try out new things and that’s what makes them stand out from the others.   spoke to a few   students, who have their own online video-sharing channels to find out how they manage to devote time to their studies and passion. Here’s what they have to say…

 
 
 Students Tejaswini Mohan and Acsah Verghese from St Joseph’s College found their love for dance and   while in college. “When I met Acsah, our main connection was Bollywood. We began our channel — Axa & Teju — as we wanted to share our dance routines with the rest of the world. Our channel is just a month old, but we’ve already got calls from people asking whether we can choreograph their mehendi and sangeet functions,” says Tejaswini. With Acsah eventually moving to the UK for her higher studies, the duo manages to shoot and plan their videos whenever Acsah is in town. “We just need one full day to finish our routines and shoot them. Most of the times, friends help us out as well,” says Tejaswini. When asked about how they manage the funding for their videos, Tejaswini says, “I teach dance in two different places, whereas Acsah teaches in the UK. That’s how we manage to get our funding. All the money is from our own pockets.” While this is just the beginning for the duo, they do hope to have a constant stream of followers on their channel in the near future, thereby enabling them to do more in the field of dance.
 
 
 
 Vandita Manohar, student of New Horizon College of Engineering, has been capturing her daily life as an engineering student by ranting. “My channel is all about randomness,  , fun and rants. I love watching videos online and then came a day when I realized that I am brave enough to talk in front of the camera. That’s why I chose a video-sharing site to bring out the real me online,” says Vandita. After creating her channel only a month ago, she says she loves the exposure she gets from it. “It is during your college years that you explore yourself and the talents in you. I believe that everyone should give themselves a chance, as a single step is a journey of thousand miles. My passion is to make videos and bring a smile on everyone’s face. As long as that goal is reached, I’m happy,” she adds. About how she manages time between studies and her channel, Vandita says, “Basically, if you are passionate about what you do, you wouldn’t have to make time for it. You’ll probably end up doing it spontaneously and it wouldn’t, or shouldn’t, be a burden.” 
 
 
 
 When Niharika NM from BMS College of Engineering began her video-sharing channel one year ago, little did she know that she would have over 82,460 subscribers one day. “As a kid, I always loved making people laugh. And when I saw people doing this and putting up videos online, I thought ‘why shouldn’t I give it a try’. Right now having an online video-sharing channel is a big thing. All my videos are mainly observational comedy, mostly an outcome of what I observe. I exaggerate a bit so that the audience can relate to it,” she says adding, “I want to build a brand for myself. I want to get my degree, but at the same time, I want to work on my channel.” When asked how she manages to devote time between studies and her channel, she says, “I don’t have a social life anymore (laughs). It gets hard sometimes for me to manage my studies and to make time for my channel. Sometimes, I want to give up, but the support I have received from my audiences is overwhelming,” says the 20-year-old. How does she manages to fund her channel, we ask. “It’s a bit expensive if you want quality videos. You need a DSLR camera, good light and a mic. Besides, my parents have been supportive of me having a channel as a hobby,” says Niharika, who shoots and edits her own videos.
 
 
 
 Amogh George, student of Jain University — CMS, has been capturing his travels through his online channel, Sole Wanderer, for about two months now, and says that his journeys encouraged him to start his own channel. “I love travelling and I meet a lot of people while I travel. I have many stories to tell from my journeys. So, I thought why not document my travels. It gives you an insight on how the world works. I like to tell stories through my vlogs,” says Amogh. What initially started with photography, soon turned out to be full-fledged travel  . “I learnt   and video editing. Everything is self-taught. Once I began my channel, it gave me clarity,” he says. Quiz him about how he manages to fund his travels and at the same time multi-task with studies, he laughs and says, “I don’t go out with friends. I don’t go for movies or parties. I try to save as much as I can. Meanwhile, travelling is like a hobby and passion for me. Travelling relaxes me and that way I am able to concentrate better at studies,” says this youngster, who currently travels across the 
 country.
 
 
 
 Yash Kanchan Kapoor, a student from Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, started his channel to make his songs reach people. Being a singer, song writer and composer, he has huge dreams to make his passion come to life. “I always wanted to be on stage. I was career oriented and wanted a strong back up before I took up risks. Having an online video-sharing channel helped me get thousands of views, but I want to reach more people through this medium, which I will soon do with the 20 songs that I have written on my own,” says Yash. “Many people know me because of this medium. They really support me and it is because of my channel that I have received invitations for performances at several events. All this makes me even more confident. I am thankful that such a platform exist. I want to get the most I can out of it,” he adds.
 
 
