Ghaziabad: An   were killed after their car was rammed by an unknown heavy vehicle in front of the district court in the collectorate on Monday. The driver of the heavy vehicle, who has not been identified yet, is at large.

 The two victims have been identified as Satish Chandra Jaiswal (64) and his wife Suresh Rani Jaiswal (62), residents of Chiranjeev Vihar in Shastri Nagar. Satish was a retired government employee and used to work with the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 According to a relative of the couple, Vivek Pratap Singh, they were travelling from Chiranjeev Vihar to Raj Nagar for a blood test around 7.30am on Monday. “My aunt was in the last stage of colon cancer. She was undergoing chemotherapy at Max Hospital in Patparganj, New Delhi, and going to Raj Nagar for a blood test,” Vivek said.
 
 Near the Ghaziabad district court, a heavy vehicle, reportedly a UP Roadways bus, coming from the opposite direction rammed the car, crushing the front passenger seat. “The driver fled after ramming the car,” Vivek said.
 
 Passersby called the police, who then rushed the couple to Combined District Hospital, Sanjay Nagar. Suresh Rani was declared brought dead by doctors. “The woman had received a major head injury because she was sitting in the passenger seat,” said  , the investigating officer.
 
 Satish was brought in a critical condition and was immediately referred to Yashoda Hospital in Ram Nagar, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. “My uncle was conscious in the hospital and gave information about the accident on his own. He had a head injury and a rib fracture,” Vivek told TOI.
 
 “We have started investigations. The accused has not been identified yet, but according to eyewitnesses, it was a UP Roadways bus. We are trying to access CCTV camera footage of the place where the accident occurred,” said  , SHO of   police station.
 
 An FIR was registered against the unknown accused under sections 304A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 279 (rash driving) of IPC on Monday.
 
 The deceased are survived by their two sons who are both married. One of them is a Major in the Indian Army and the other one works in the hotel and hospitality industry. 
 
 
