AJMER: One more child was branded with hot iron by a tantrik in Kudiya Kalan village of Rajsamand district on Friday.

 The three-month-old child was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital in Bhilwara.
 
 According to a doctor, the condition of the child was  . He had pneumonia and his parents took him to the tantrik for treatment.
 
 This is the ninth case of a child being branded with hot iron in last two months in the region. 
 
 One of the kids who hailed from Bhilwara died during treatment at   of Ajmer. Besides, one man, treated similarly by a tantrik in Bhilwara, died during treatment in Ahmedabad.
 
 According to the reports collected by the medical department in Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Rajsamand and Ajmer, more than three dozen such cases have been reported from different hospitals.
 
 According to sources, three-month-old Govind, the son of Bharo Lal of Kudiya Kalan village, was suffering from cold and fever.
 
 “Somebody advised Bharo Lal to take Govind to woman tantrik Dau Bai. It was said that the child was in the grip of some evil spirit,” said sources.
 
 Frightened, Bharo Lal took the child to tantrik Dau Bai on Friday morning.
 
 Dau Bai placed a hot iron rod on the stomach of the child.
 
 “When the condition of the child turned worse, he was rushed to Bhilwara,” said sources.
 
 The matter was reported to   (CWC) of Bhilwara which sent a team to the hospital.
 
 “Child’s mother Kiran tried to hide the incident but doctors revealed that the child was branded with hot iron on the stomach and was in a critical condition,” said Suman Trivedi, chairperson, CWC, Bhilwara.
 
 She said that they have reported the matter to the CWC of Rajsamand so that a case could be registered against all the accused in this matter.
 
 She said that in Bhilwara, she is organising a workshop to raise awareness against such superstitions. She added that officials from health department, child labour department and police have been asked to stop such incidents in the region.
 
 “Our motive is to make people shun such superstitions and tell them that government provides treatment for such illnesses,” said Trivedi.
 
 She said they are asking people to dial 1098 for more information and that CWC would take action in such matters.
 
 On January 30, a tantrik had branded a three-month-old girl with a hot iron rod in Chaprasi Colony. She was later admitted to   in Bhilwara. A two-year-old girl in Beawar town was also branded with hot iron and was admitted to Amrit Kaur Hospital in the town.
 
 On January 11, a two-year-old girl from Amli village in Baneda block of Bhilwara was also branded with hot iron. This girl died at JLN Hospital on January 14.
 
 The police had registered a case against her parents and the tantrik and made some arrests.
 
 There were five more such cases reported in the region as per the CWC of Bhilwara.
 
