LUCKNOW:   offshoot   has said that the medium of instruction in primary schools should be the   of students. English could be one of the subjects taught but not a forced or compulsory medium of instruction as is the case in many public schools, the ABVP said. 

 “It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure that most subjects are taught in their mother tongue in primary classes so that they grasp more,” said national media convener of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad Saket Bahuguna. In states such as Maharashtra, popular local dialects could also be a medium of instruction, he said. 
 
 “English could be an option too but for those who opt for it. We are not against English but against forced learning of the language,” said regional organization secretary for UP and Uttarakhand Dharampal. 
 
 The demand by ABVP comes at a time when UP chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi has been advocating for English as a medium of instruction from class I to class VI in government schools. 
 
 The matter will be discussed in the national executive council meeting of ABVP to be held in Lucknow for the first time between May 29 and May 31. There will be around 400 ABVP representatives at the event.
 
 ABVP will also discuss how to curb “urban Naxalism” spreading its tentacles in educational institutions. “Communist organizations have been exposed by ABVP. There is a section of teachers and students in some universities working as urban Maoists. We will discuss on ways to stop this phenomenon,” said Bahuguna. 
 
 He also said that teaching students “distorted” history about Indian heroes and personalities will also be debated. 
 
 The other issues to be discussed in the meeting would be fee regularization to make education affordable to economically weaker sections.
 
 ABVP will start a ‘Vistarika Yojna’ for women students on the 150th birth anniversary of ‘Bhagini’ (Sister) Nivedita, who was originally from Ireland. She was a disciple of Swami Vivekanand and stayed in India and worked as a social worker. 
 
