HOWRAH: A 12-year-old survivor of  , who recently gave birth to a child that makes her possibly the youngest mother in Bengal, had to move a   on Monday to get the cops to register an FIR and probe the alleged rape.

 Dressed in a blue salwar kurta, the girl, who is yet to step into her teens, appeared in court to seek justice for her baby. “Given what has happened to me, I am afraid for my daughter’s future,” she said, weeping profusely. “She, too, is a girl and vulnerable. I want the world to know her father’s identity. Police must find the truth,” she said.
 
 The girl’s family has accused her karate teacher of rape and named four others as co-accused. According to them, Jagatballavpur police did not act because the accused have political connections.
 
 The girl’s lawyer, Md Farukh, said his client had moved court to protest the inaction of Jagatballavpur police. “We have filed a case against six accused under Section 376 of IPC. The survivor and her family are currently homeless and need police protection to return home,” he said.
 
 Locals, however, accused the girl’s grandfather, an Ayurveda practitioner, of incest. That is what the prime accused, too, insists. “It is a family scandal and I am being falsely implicated. The family did not say anything till the child’s birth. It is only thereafter that the allegation against me surfaced,” he argued.
 
 The reason for the silence, said the family, was the girl’s inability to comprehend what was done to her and the family’s misreading of her behaviour for an injury.
 
 The girl’s uncle said she did not understand the difference between a good and a bad touch. 
 
 The girl’s father, a tailor, is traumatised not just by his daughter being raped and forced to bear a child at a tender age, but also at his father (the girl’s grandfather) being accused of the rape. 
 
 “The neighbours set up a kangaroo court and blamed him for my daughter’s rape. Can anyone imagine what such an allegation did to his self-esteem? They boxed his ear, punched his eye and broke three fingers when he didn’t confess. He wanted a DNA test done to prove his innocence but nobody listened to him,” he said.
 
 “Initially, she was promised a black belt and a government job. She was too young to understand that she was being violated. When she began to understand, the karate teacher threatened her with dire consequences. The family knew she had hurt her foot and believed this was the reason for her skipping classes and sulking at home. We even mistook the bump as her gaining weight since she was not practicing. It was only when she began to throw up that we took her to hospital and learned she was pregnant,” her uncle said.
 
 The family also alleged goons attacked the house and broke down the door. A polythene sheet has been strung up to secure a semblance of privacy. “We are living in constant fear. Criminals move around with knives and daggers. They can kill us any moment. I hope authorities will do something to help poor people like us get justice,” the aunt said, adding that the family was being targeted by neighbours out of jealousy. 
 
 “Besides being good-looking, my niece was successful in sports. People in the neighbourhood got jealous and plotted to cripple her future,” she added.
 
 When TOI got in touch with Howrah SP Sumit Kumar, he said, “We have received the certified copy of the FIR. I will look into the plight of the victim and ensure justice is done. But allegations of police inaction are false.”
 
 State minister Aroop Roy, who is the president of Howrah  , said he wasn’t aware of the development. “If the victim’s family lodges a specific complaint with me, I will take immediate action.”
 
