NAGPUR: Vidarbha Maza, a party wedded to the cause of separate Vidarbha state, made a remarkable debut with a clean sweep in  . This is the first time that a pro-Vidarbha party has made its mark in any election in the region.

 Out of the total 23 seats in the  , polling for which was held on Sunday, Vidarbha Maza won 18 seats with Vaishali Thakur of the party getting elected as municipal president in a direct contest. The Peasants and Workers’ Party came second with four seats. The ruling BJP could win barely one seat despite hectic campaigning by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis along with sitting BJP MLA Ashish Deshmukh. In neighbouring Narkhed civic body, the BJP failed even to open its account.
 
 The Vidarbha Maza win at Katol is seen as historic as it is for the first time that a party formed with only goal of statehood has ever won an election in the region. Earlier attempts by ex-MPs Banwarilal Purohit and Jambuwantrao Dhote fell flat cementing a perception that statehood issue can never win elections.
 
 “We have proved our point. That the cause has public support and people want a separate state. Let us hope this is a new beginning,” said an elated Vidarbha Maza founder Rajkumar Tirpude. Maza may have opened its account but other pro-Vidarbha parties like Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi failed to do so in the other eight municipal councils where they had fielded candidates.
 
 Along with sitting BJP MLA Deshmukh, who drew a blank in Katol and Narkhed, another stalwart and Nagpur guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule found himself at the receiving end as his party fared badly in his home turf of Kamptee. BJP won only 8 of the 32 Kamptee civic seats with   emerging victorious with 16 seats. BJP which had tie-up with Sulekha Kumbhare’s   (BREM) suffered a shock defeat in Kamptee. Similarly, for Sunil Kedar, the lone Congress MLA in the district, it was a big jolt at Saoner where his party won only 6 of the 20 seats conceding 11 to the BJP along with civic president’s post. However, Kamptee and Katol losses should serve as wake-up call for the incumbent BJP.
 
 IN A NUTSHELL
 
 Vidarbha Maza won 18 of 23 seats in Katol Council
 
 Vaishali Thakur of the party was elected president
 
 It is first party with Vidarbha focus to win an election
 
 Other pro-Vidarbha parties lost on some seats contested in 8 municipal councils
 
 
