HYDERABAD: It's been a hectic season for the Indian team, what with international teams zooming in and out of the country . The New Zealanders were followed by the Englishmen and in the period after Eoin Morgan's battered men left the country and  's   landed for the one-off Test match beginning here on Feb 9, some players had to ply their wares in the Irani Trophy match and zonal T20 tournaments.

  is a case in point. He scored 86 and an unbeaten 103 and his unbroken fifth-wicket stand of 316 with his India teammate Wriddhiman Saha helped Rest of India trump Gujarat by six wickets in Irani Trophy . Then he turned up for Saurashtra in West Zone T20 matches.
 
 Downtime, if any, is most welcome, Pujara said as the Indian team assembled here on Monday for another frenetic run that will see them play Bangladesh and Australia. “It is always good to play cricket. Despite a hectic schedule, I always believe us cricketers are young and we always enjoy playing cricket. Sometimes, obviously, you need to have a break and this was the time before we have the five Test matches -one vs Bangladesh and four vs Australia.We had a break, but most of us played some cricket or the other. We are fresh and looking forward to the next five Test matches,“ said Pujara, wh o r e c e n t l y scored a century in each of the new Test venues -Indore, Rajkot and Visakhapatnam.
 
 The 29-year-old Saurashtra player has good reason to look forward to playing here. In his last two outings at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium, Pujara scored 159 against New Zealand in 2012 and 204 against Australia in 2013. Pujara said there would be no let-up in intensity against Bangladesh.“They have been playing well in the sub-continent. This team did well against England. We cannot take them lightly . But we are No.1 in the world and would like to maintain that.The way we played in 2016, we want to play the same way in 2017. When it comes to strategy, we will have a chat about it later on. If we play good cricket, we can definitely beat them,“ he said.
 
 The visitors, Pujara reckoned, might find conditions here familiar. “When we tour Bangladesh, we have a similar experience. But I don't think conditions matter a lot. We probably have the upper hand because of the way we have played in 2016. Our fast bowlers bowled well and our lower-order has contributed.“
 
 
