KANNUR: It was in June 2015 that a strange event of scorching wind that led to the wilting of plant leaves was witnessed at some areas of coastal Kerala including Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Kollam.
 
 Though it was earlier thought sea-salt spray or acid rain induced the dehydration of leaf cells, the scientific study of the incident points to the possibility of ‘heat burst’ that resulted in an oxidative stress on the leaves, which resulted in the wilting, according to a group of researchers who published a research paper on this subject in the latest edition of the ‘International Journal of Earth and Atmospheric Science’.
 
 “Though it was taken very lightly, it is a major indicator of climate change and we have to take the issue very seriously, and the authorities should ponder as to what steps they have taken in the mitigation and adaptation to face such issues,” said M K  , professor at   and Molecular Physics, Manipal University, who conducted the research along with M G Manoj, Jiji Joseph, S Sandeep, K A Sreejith, K M Sunil and K Mohankumar.
 
 “What causes the concern is that heat burst is a rare phenomenon, not reported earlier in tropical regions, though it has been reported in countries such as the United States, Australia, Canada, which are outside the tropics,” he said, adding that these are indication of climatic instability.
 
 In the backdrop of such rare occurrences, we should think more about climatic conservation, because, the condition is such that anything can happen climatically, added the researcher.
 “This year also the monsoon is likely to weaken and this is the indication that the El-Nino condition in 2015, which brought highly sporadic and spatially asymmetric rains over the Kerala coast is not yet over,” he said.
 
 Though monsoon onset occurred in June in 2015, it was not active and uniform over this region in the subsequent leg. Moreover, the rains were characterized by both monsoon and pre-monsoon showers, with frequent lightning/thunder and gusty winds, pointed out the study. In a climatological sense, lightning and thunder are not common during the south-west monsoon season, it added.
 The wind speed also increased about five times during this event, while the humidity was reduced. A sudden high temperature rise and lowering of moisture content in air wipe out cell water content leading to oxidative stress and wilting, said researcher M G Manoj.
 
 The heat burst, accompanied by chemical reactions involving oxidation could enhance the temperature which, in turn, could damage the chlorophyll content, and produce a burning effect to the leaves, he said.
 
 “The unprecedented heat burst event could be ringing the bell of a changing  , and calls for multidisciplinary research initiatives to explore its impacts on the biota,” added the researcher.
 
