BENGALURU: E-commerce biggies are gearing up for a second round of festive sales leading up to Diwali.  , which is likely to have racked up $700-800 million in gross sales during the fiveday Big Billion Days (BBD), has decided to extend its sale by another week till October 1, according to a company communication to its sellers.

 Gross sales are the overall sales on an online marketplace, without factoring the discounts and returns.
 
 Both Flipkart and   will hold another big sale event closer to Diwali, just like previous years as many consumers delay their festive purchases till Dhanteras. Flipkart told its merchants, “Festive season is not over yet, many more sales to come. Kindly optin for festive offers.”
 
 Flipkart’s arch rival Amazon too sent an email to sellers, asking them to be prepared for another sale in the first week of October if they had missed out on the just concluded sale. Amazon communicated to its sellers that they should focus on adding supplies across categories in the run-up to Diwali.
 
 Typically, the annual sale events take place in the same month as Diwali. But this year the festival is in October and companies like Flipkart and Amazon are thus preparing in advance to push sale numbers over the next few weeks. These sales will also see discounting as one of the main attractions, but the quantum won’t be as much as what was offered during BBD and Amazon’s Great Indian Festival.
 
 Flipkart senior director Smrithi Ravichandran said, “We are planning more sales ahead of Diwali as BBD has created the right momentum for us. We have communicated this to our sellers so that they are well prepared and have adequate stocks.”
 
 An Amazon spokesperson said the company doesn’t comment on future plans but added that it will continue to look at delighting customers with new offerings and an enhanced shopping experience.
 
 Market research firm Red Seer Consulting’s head (consumer internet) Mirgank Gutgutia said, “E-tailers generated over 50% of their festive month sales during the five-day annual sale last year. To follow up and gain on the momentum of that, e-tailers come up with smaller sales ahead of Diwali. There are lots of users who miss the first sale and make the purchases in the follow-up sales.”
 
 TOI reported in its September 25 edition that, over five days, players like Amazon and Flipkart clocked more than 50% growth in sales compared to last year. Analysts have said the industry has registered gross sales of $1.2-1.7 billion over this period.
 
