GURUGRAM: The   arms   scam keeps throwing up new twists and turns. On Thursday, the   police SIT probing the case brought under the scanner two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, who also happen to be   level recreational shooters, for possessing   licences procured against fake NOC from Jammu and Kashmir, as well as getting imported guns enrolled on these licences using ‘fake’ customs stamp. The duo, identified as Nale Amol Bhagwan and M N Rahman, are posted as constables at the CRPF shooting range in Kadarpur, and have been part of many tournaments, winning many medals.

 Bhagwan and Rahman are well known in the world of sports shooting. In 2014, Bhagwan was selected to represent the country in the 300m big bore events by National Rifle Association of India, at the World Shooting Championship in Spain. The same year, he won the 57th National Shooting Championship in the same event against Olympian Gagan Narang. Rahman is also a national level  .
 
 Though cops are still investigating their role in the scam, as a result of the two fake licenses, investigators smell the involvement of an arms smuggling racket in the sport, which could involve many big names. “The role of arms smuggling in the   cannot be ruled out. As of now, we’re investigating whether these two constable have any active role in the scam, or if they were unsuspecting victims,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar. He added, “How the duo bought the weapons and got them enrolled on their previously-owned licences is a matter of investigation.”
 
 It was earlier reported that scam kingpin Manish Bhardwaj and prime accused inspector Jasmer Singh had sold a fake weapon for Rs 5 lakh to a CRPF deputy commandant, who is the shooting coach at Kadarpur. The buyer, identified as Parvinder Singh, has already deposited his weapon and license with the SIT.
 
 The SIT stumbled upon the current revelations while probing sports shooters who re-registered their licences with Gurgaon police. The two constables had procured original arms licences from Kishtwar in Jammu and Kashmir, then got them re-registered in Gurgaon some years ago. The mandatory NOC required for re-registration, taken from Kishtwar, were fakes.
 
 What has intrigued the SIT is the enrolment of foreign weapons on the licences. Sources said while special import licences are required to procure guns for sports, the two constables had managed to get their weapons enrolled without any import licences. The customs stamp on the papers were also faked. All this hints at a thriving sports weapon smuggling racket in the city, in which recreational shooters, in connivance with authorities and associations, aid in procuring and circulating foreign weapons. 
 
 A police officer confirmed that main accused Manish Bhardwaj had confessed to having used fake customs department stamps in his business. It is possible the two CRPF constables have used the same stamp with Bhardwaj’s help.
 
 Sources in state shooting and rifle associations, though, claimed there is more than what meets the eye. “As per law, no person in India can import arms without an import license issued by a competent authority of the Government of India. The scam hints at connivance between some shooters and authorities to smuggle arms,” said Deep Bhatia, expert of shooting sports and law, and a senior official of a shooting association.
 
