NAGPUR: Filing a false affidavit on not having a third child proved costly for a   man, who was slapped with a cost of Rs1.05 lakh to be paid the respondents. The   from   coming under Chimur town was exposed after it was proved that he fathered third child and thus can’t continue his membership of the local body.

 A single-judge bench of Justice Zaka Haq also warned petitioner Arvind Rewatkar of issuing a non-bailable warrant (NBW) if he failed to pay the amount before June 30. The warrant would be executed to secure his presence on July 18 at 1.30am, in case of failure to comply with court's directives.
 
 “Considering the facts, it’s clear that petitioner made a false claim, and that too at the cost of serious damage to future of his minor daughter. He also dragged wife to file a false affidavit,” the judge said.
 
 He further added that the petitioner and his wife could be prosecuted. But as the petitioner chose to withdraw the plea, he would not have to deal with it and record the findings.
 
 However, the judge said that the petitioner’s conduct was unpardonable as he unnecessarily dragged respondents and even Dr Anuprita   in the matter.
 
 After being disqualified from the Gram Panchayat for fathering the third child, as per Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act’s Section 14 (j-1), he moved to the court. As per the Act, no person could become a member of public bodies like Gram Panchayats, if third child is born after cut-off date.
 
 Rewatkar forced wife Chhaya to file a false affidavit on April 19 that she wasn’t admitted to the   in Dhantoli here, for delivery of third child.
 
 The court on April 19 issued notice to Genesis’ Dr Deshmukh directing her to file a reply explaining their position on petitioner’s claims. In her affidavit, the doctor stated that Chhaya was admitted to the hospital on August 8, 2014, where she gave birth to a female child. She was discharged on August 11, and before leaving the couple had given statements acknowledging their other two children. Photocopies of couples’ statements were submitted to the court along with her affidavit.
 
 The court asked Rewatkar to deposit Rs50,000 to the Gram Panchayat, even though it was not a respondent, as on his misrepresentation, an interim order was issued on March 22 last year. He was told to pay Rs25,000 each to deputy commissioner (general Administration) in Nagpur and additional collector Chandrapur, and another Rs5,000 to Dr Deshmukh.
 
 (With inputs from Praveen Tewari)
 
