PATNA: Eminent   has begged to differ with the doctors who have welcomed the Centre’s move to cap the prices of stents. “Imported stents may come in short supply, as a result,” he feared.

 Inaugurating the annual conference of Bihar chapter of   in Patna on Saturday, Dr Seth hinted he was not very sure of the efficacy of indigenous stents. “We do not have a mechanism till date to test the quality of indigenous stents. We have mostly relied on imported ones,” he said.
 
 He, however, did not cite any study to substantiate the superiority of imported stents. 
 
 “Because of the government move, one cannot use a high-end stent even if one so wishes in India,” Dr Seth said. Asked if high-end stents were necessarily more reliable, he replied that expensive computers and mobiles phones were more advanced and better than cheaper ones.
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of the conference, paediatric cardiac surgeon Dr S Radhakrishnan from Delhi told TOI cases of congenital (by birth) heart defects were rising. “Ten in every 1,000 live births are cases of such defects... States like UP and Bihar have the highest number of these cases due to their sheer population,” he said and regretted Bihar did not have even a single trained paediatric cardiac surgeon.
 
 Common congenital birth defects include hole(s) in heart, blue baby syndrome (decreased supply of oxygen) and obstruction to valves in heart. “The causes of most of these defects are not known, but they can be diagnosed during 16-20 weeks of pregnancy. We counsel parents if the defect can be corrected later or if they should opt for termination of pregnancy,” he told this reporter.
 
 Chandigarh’s Dr H K Bali said patients who have undergone bypass surgery should not take life for granted. They must avoid fat, eat plenty of vegetables and regularly do moderate exercise. Or else, they face the risk of having serious heart issues again. “They also must visit doctors every six months till seven years, and every three months later,” said Dr Bali, who worked with PGI-Chandigarh for over 20 years.
 
 Bangalore’s Dr Vivek Jawali said stenting should be avoided in complicated cases requiring more than two stents. “Angioplasty in such cases may lead to dysfuction of ventricles. Bypass surgery gives better results in such cases,” he said.
 
 Ironically, angioplasty has remained a preferred option for doctors even though it is costlier than bypass surgery. While unanimity eludes doctors as to which one is a better option, Dr P   of SGPGI-Lucknow on Saturday disagreed with Dr Jawali’s contention and favoured stenting even in complicated cases. “It is less invasive than bypass surgery and the patient takes less time to recuperate,” he said.
 
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad released a  , edited by AIIMS-Patna’s Dr  , at the conference.
 
