KOLKATA: On a day when the rest of the state is celebrating board toppers, here is the story of a girl, who has fought against odds from her   existence to stay as close to the top as possible. Her 92% is commendable when you get to know that she had no tutors and just depended on her textbooks and her school lessons.

 Subrita Bhandary’s father, Subrata, is unemployed despite being a science graduate and the family depends on her mother’s meagre monthly income of Rs 4,000. She’s an ICDS worker. The family lives in Nalua in Mathurapur, South 24 Parganas. A student of Krishnachandrapur High School, Subrita has always been brilliant in studies, ranking first every year. Headmaster of the school, Chandan Kumar Maity, had always been a source of encouragement and Subrita credited him along with her parents for her success.
 
 Apart from Bengali, in which she has scored 85, Subrita has scored over 90% in every other subject.
 
 If studying has been a struggle for Subrita, for Kochan Chalak, the son of a poor potato farmer in Jangalmahal, travelling to school has often been a life-threatening experience. In his village Ghurcha, Kochan and his neighbours were forced to rub shoulders with Maoists who had set up a camp near the hamlet. On the way to school on a bicycle given to him by his teachers, Kochan would often be forced to stop in his tracks and seek cover from gunshots. In 2009, at the height of Maoist insurgency, his father Dhiren had to flee the village for a year. Kochan, a student of Moupal Deshapran High School, scored 78% in  .
 
 “For a year, we shifted from one place to another. Studying was a struggle but I still managed to attend school regularly. I never gave up hope,” said Kochan. Barely managing to make ends meet, the family survived on subsidized rice. “We didn’t starve but never had the means to support Kochan. His schoolteachers went out of their way to help him. They arranged three private tutors for him. Even his books and pens were provided by the school,” said his father.
 
 The private tuitions helped him excel, said Kochan. “Whatever I couldn’t grasp in school, I learnt from the tutors,” said Kochan, who wants to study bio-science and dreams of becoming a scientist. His teachers believe Kochan could have done much better with a little more help. “It’s amazing that he managed to continue studying in that environment. His family virtually turned nomads,” said Prasun Paria, a teacher of his school.
 
 Having lost 80% of his vision to a congenital ailment, Mohammed Sayan Shafik’s feat is extraordinary. The youngster from Deulgram Mankur Bakshi High School in Howrah bagged the eight place on the Madhyamik merit list. Son of a PWD employee, Sayan couldn’t study after dark due to his poor vision. His parents would read out his text books and Sayan would listen. He had no private tutor either.
 
 “Studying has been a struggle for him throughout school. But Sayan has never complained. He has shown incredible grit and determination. The tougher it got, the more resolved he turned,” said Manowara, his mother, who teaches Bengali in a school. While his parents egged him on, they didn’t weigh him down with expectations. “We knew he could excel but didn’t put him under pressure. He has done us proud,” said father Sheikh Mohammed Shafik.
 
 Sayan wanted to be a doctor but has been forced to give up his dream due to his poor vision. “I have to go to south India for check-ups twice a year. My eyesight has come in the way of my dream. But now I want to be an engineer. I may also take up mathematics,” he said.
 
 
