NAGPUR: Shubham Meshram, Shital Barai, Nandu Bhujade and Geeta Chacherkar reigned supreme in their respective categories in the Mini Marathon, organized by Yuva Bhim Mahila Maitreya Sangh (YBMS), with a motive to spread an awareness about environment here on Sunday. 

 In the 18 to 34 years (14-km) race, Nav Maharashtra Krida Mandal athlete Shubhan clocked 47 minutes and 7 seconds to clinch the title.
 
 In-form Shital triumphed in the women's 6.5-km race. A trainee of Nav Maharashtra Krida Mandal dominated the race and completed it with a timing of 34 minutes and 17 seconds.
 
 Nav Maharashtra KM dominance continued in the U-18 boys category also as Nandu Bhujade emerged champion. He completed 4-km distance in 12 minutes and 27 seconds. In the U-18 girls group,   won with a timing 14.16.
 
 In 35 to 60 years veterans (4-km) race, Pramod Urkude of Umred secured top spot in 13.17. In the women's section, Sharda Bhoyar of Nagpur City Club grabbed the crown with a timing of 15.30.
 
 In the 6 to 12 years boys category, Sahil Lahane of Umred emerged champion. Devashree Lavhe won in the girls group.
 
 Earlier, MLA Milind Mane, NMC women and child welfare committee chairman Varsha Thakre, corporator Narendra Walde, Jitendra Ghodeswar, corporator Viranka Bhivgade and Mohammad Jamal flagged off the races.
 
  
 
 
  Men (14-km): Shubham Meshram, Sheshraj Raut (both Nav Maharashtra KM), Vicky Raut (Nagpur Athletics Club), Akshay Mohite (Track Star), Nagraj Khursane (Nav Maharashtra). 
 
  Women (6.5-km): Shital Barai (Nav Maharashtra), Nikita Raut (Track Star), Rajshree Padmagirwar (Nav Maharashtra), Pranali Borkar, Anchal Gajbhiye (both from Track Star). 
 
  U-18 boys (4-km): Nandu Bhujade (Nav Maharashtra) Shadab Pathan (Gree City Athletics Club), Vishad Verma (Nav Maharashtra), Akash Meshram (Vidyarthi Yuva), Jaiprakash Kolhe (Green City). 
 
  Girls (4-km): 1. Geeta Chacherkar, Divya Nakhate (both from Vishwavyapi Vidyalaya, Veltur), Geeta Sonekar (Green city), Tannu Lilhare (Vidyarthi Yuvak), Bhumi Rahangdale (Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kamptee). 
 
  35 to 60 years men (4-km): Pramod Urkude (Umred), Ghanshyam Padmagirwar (Nav Maharashtra), Keshav Susladhe (Reshimbagh Club), Nagorao Bhoyar (Nagpur City Club), Vasantrao Kadu (Umred). 
 
  Women (4-km): Sharda Bhoyar (Nagpur City Club), Chhaya Janbandhu (SEC Rly), Ashwini Motghare (Gondwana Club), Archana Sukhdeve, Chhaya Meshram. 
 
  6 to 12 years boys (1-km): Sahil Lahane, Sandeep Goud (both from Umred), Aryan Ganvir (Pandit Bachchraj HS), Prashant Bhoyar (Prerna Convent), Ved Yesne (Vidyarthi Yuvak). 
 
  6-12 years girls (1-km): Devashree Lavhe (Umred), Khushi (Vidyarthi Yuvak), Sakshi Vedkari (Vishwavyapee Vidyalaya), Astha Nimbarte (Vidyarthi Yuvak), Kirti Nimdhale (Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kamptee). 
 
