DEHRADUN: The   to nab the   is in full swing at Motichur range of  . Two teams each led by director   and veterinarian Aditi Sharma has been searching in the probable locations since the body of the forester, mostly eaten by leopard , was traced in the area behind Nepali farm and Satya Narayan temple. The team got some success as the Sonkar’s team spotted a leopard three times in the morning and Sharma also saw him relaxing it on the branch of the tree in Motichur range. But the moment the team began inching closer to him in order to dart him for tranquilization, he slipped into the thickness of the forest.

 Lantana is also posing problem as the cobweb of this invasive species spread across the area is providing good opportunity for hiding to this shrewd animal. Director has given instructions to the officials to create passage by clearing lantana at various patches in the targeted area in order to tighten snooze around the leopard.
 
 A healthy leopard was seen sitting on a branch of black-berry tree on Saturday morning. That leopard was seen to be quite similar to that what the park director got the camera trap image on the night of May 18 before the forester was killed around the same area. Besides this, the fresh image captured on Saturday morning also showed two more, a leopardess and a leopard prowling in the area.
 
 So the officials are in tizzy to identify who is the actual man-eater. Pradeep Kumar, wildlife warden of Motichur range said, "The body of a man which was 80% eaten by the leopard also poses question that there may be more than one man-eating leopard as one leopard can not eat more than 30 kg." However there are others who are contending that other carnivore might have also eaten the body.
 
 Besides this the director too said that he is going to tranquilise any leopard seen in the area and shift it to   where his scat will be sent to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to corroborate if the scat has human DNA to ensure that the leopard has eaten a human body. However it is to be pointed out here that scat taken after two-three days of consumption of human body can give actual results of having human DNA or not, after that such examination is pointless.
 
