Surat: Though the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) boasts about its online services and the smart city initiatives, residents in the Diamond City are sort of being looted by civic body staff.  As the rush for the summer batch at the corporation run swimming pools have started, the staff members deployed at the pools are leaving no stone unturned to frisk the pockets of the gullible Surtis, mostly children above the age of 10 years.  As per information, more than 11,000 forms have been distributed, most of them issued from the counters at the pools for Rs 50 each, without giving any receipts. If a simple calculation is made then the civic staff would be earning Rs 5.50 lakh by just selling the forms. However, admission forms for the swimming pools across the city are available on the official website of SMC—suratmunicipal.gov.in—for free, the staff members have literally opened shops by selling the forms for Rs 50 per person—at times they even take Rs 100—without issuing official receipts.  “The entry forms are available online for free download. There is no need to give money at the swimming pool counters. I will investigate the issue and take action against those involved in selling the forms,” said additional city engineer, AG Khatiwala.  Teenagers and youngsters have been asked to pay Rs 50 for swimming pool forms in the past 11 days. Every year, the corporation earns over Rs 60 lakh to Rs 65 lakh income during the summer season alone. The civic body owns and operates around 14 swimming pools in seven municipal zones in the city. These swimming pools are located in the areas like Adajan, Katargam, Varachha, Rustompura, Singanpore, Chowpaty, Udhana, Kapodara, Nanpura, Dumbhal, Vanita Vishram etc. Sources said that distribution of entry forms had started early this time and that the admissions will be given between April 1 and April 5. Tens of hundreds of teenagers and youngsters thronged the swimming pools across the city to get their names registered. Raju Desai, a resident of Honey Park road in Adajan said, “I went to the Adajan pool along with my 11-year-old son for getting the entry form. They (staff) charged me Rs 50 per form. When I enquired why they charge Rs 50, when the form is available for free online, they told me it is the rule. This is an open loot by the civic staff posted at the swimming pools.”