PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Working women would soon have a safer and more   in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities as the state government has approved a proposal to begin ‘Tejaswini’ buses during peak hours.

 All seats in these   buses, plying from 7 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to 9 pm would be reserved for women. The buses would also be driven by women. 
 
 The chief executive officer of   (PMPML), Sushma Kolhe, told TOI , “We had sent a proposal to the state government in June-July 2016 seeking funds to purchase 100 buses for this service.” It is yet to get approved.
 
 Now, a project implementation committee would be formed for this service, with the municipal commissioner as the president and general manager (transport) as the member secretary. The committee would decide the number of routes and models of buses.
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, a large number of women work in the many small, medium and big industries in industrial areas. Similarly many women work in the IT companies in Rajiv Gandhi IT park in Hinjewadi.
 
 However, there are only a few PMPML buses that run through the industrial areas in Pimpri Chinchwad. 
 
 Kolhe said, “We will decide the routes for these buses considering the demand and necessity of various areas in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities. This will be decided based on the number of buses purchased under this scheme.”
 
 Earlier in 2016, the state government had approved Tejaswini bus services for Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur and  . A total of 300 Tejaswini buses were provided for women in these cities. In March 2016, the state government had budgeted Rs 50 crore for the ‘Tejaswini Buses’ project.
 
 Maharashtra finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had said he wanted women to travel comfortably and safely. 
 
 Urban centres have many working women. Though some municipal corporations have their own bus services, women have to travel in crowded buses. The government had stressed there was a need for separate buses for women to ensure their safety.
 
