Mumbai: Judicial activism shown by the   has come to the rescue of   on a three-acre plot in Thane district. The mangroves had been destroyed by illegal constructions three years ago. 

  On May 4, after numerous orders and site visits by the court receiver, mangrove saplings were back on the plot in Agasan village in Diva. Earlier, the   had finally razed 160 unauthorised rooms and cleared the debris to ensure free flow of tidal water for their survival. The forest department planted two varieties of mangroves to ensure quick regeneration. 
 
  The mangroves had been systematically destroyed with an illegal wall to cut off water supply. In its place, about 18 illegal chawls had sprouted, a few even after the high court had ordered their demolition. 
 
 The brazen destruction was first highlighted by a local, Gangaram Patil, who filed a public interest litigation in early 2014. But in three months and after over half a dozen orders, Patil withdrew, without reason. By then the HC had already upbraided the state for its "insensitivity'' and observed how "due to their inaction, the mangroves have been destroyed''. 
 
 The state was unable to point out the names of offenders and a criminal case was registered against unknown offenders with Mumbra police under the Environment Protection Act. A blame-game too had begun among various public departments, with the notorious bureaucratic red tape in play. But a bench of Justices Abhay Oka and M S Sonak, then hearing the matter, said the "petition cannot be allowed to be withdrawn'' and directed the HC to suo motu (on its own) step in as the litigant in public interest. "The mangroves have to be saved,'' said the bench on May 9, 2014.
 
 Three years later the mangroves finally were saved, despite the initial tardy, lackadaisical attitude of state, civic and forest officials. The HC had appointed its court receiver to take charge. The receiver, M S Deshpande, would inspect the site and report back to court, the steps taken and measures that needed to be adopted. Forest department citing Google imagery said two plots used to be substantially covered with mangroves.
 
 The HC persisted with its orders, even seeking the personal presence of Thane civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal and M Vasudevan, chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell, on March 2. Jaiswal said the demolition was carried out but the "huge expenses" of demolition and debris clearance "cannot be clamped on the corporation''. The court asked the corporation to submit bills but directed expeditious debris removal since monsoon was "fast approaching". 
 
 Vasudevan and  , assistant forest conservator had said, "EPA is the law to punish those responsible for destruction of mangroves on private land.'' The HC bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni were quick to point out that, "at this stage'', what needed to be implemented was its earlier directions to restore mangroves already destroyed by cultivation and construction, "even though it is a private land". "The restoration cost will have to be borne by the people who destroyed the mangroves for their benefit.''
 
 A few months ago, still not satisfied with the pace of restoration, the HC appointed Shiraz Rustomjee, a counsel who more than a decade ago was heavily into environmental litigation in public interest, as the second amicus curiae (friend of court) along with advocate Bhushan Walimbe. Ram Apte with   for the Thane civic body pointed to the plot being cleared of all debris too. The   had spent almost Rs 56 lakh so far for all the work.
 
 The latest report on May 3, after a visit by the court receiver, Dhananjay Gosavi, executive engineer, TMC, the assistant conservator of forest, advocate Naveen Chomal for two landowners who were granted permission by court earlier to cultivate rice on part of the land, and others including petitioner Baliram Pandit, said the TMC would complete planting two varieties of mangrove saplings within a week.
 
 Ruing the lack of an awareness drive by state or civic departments on the "serious consequences" of mangrove destruction, CJ Chellur and Justice Kulkarni said, "On every occasion of such destruction of mangroves, there cannot be a marathon exercise of litigation...If no constant vigil is kept, possibility of recurrence cannot be ruled out.'' The HC has now directed the forest department and TMC to keep a "vigil" to see that mangroves are maintained and posted the matter after three months to monitor the status.
 
