Actress   is in a special place in her career. She is arguably one of the most-sought actresses in Mollywood right now but mention that to her and she readily dismisses it saying, “Nothing much has changed.” But that’s hardly the truth; the actress is already shooting for her Bollywood debut opposite Irrfan Khan and is part of several big projects in Malayalam including Mahesh Narayanan’s directorial about a group of Malayali nurses stranded in Iraq, and My Story with Prithviraj.
In between the shoot of her Bollywood film, Parvathy took some time out to talk to us about how her character in Mahesh’s film helped her understand the plight of the nurses, whether it’s a good time to be an actress in Mollywood, and more…
 
 
 
 
 Mahesh had actually told me a one liner way before we zeroed in on the plot. At that point of time it wasn’t a nurses’ story, neither did it have an Iraqi background. It was a powerful story of a woman and that particular thread is still there in this film. For me, that’s still the core of the character I play in the film. He then juxtaposed it with the background of nurses trapped in Iraq and that successfully complemented the core concept.
 
 When Mahesh told me about Marina Jose, I thought I should meet her. But the film is in no way autobiographical. I play Sameera, who is a representative of many, many women. Mahesh has done extensive research for the movie; he was clear about every single detail down to even how the hospital corridors should look like. That kind of documentation gave us more insights into their lives.
 
 
 Malayali nurses have been working in Iraq for years. These men and women go to the strife-torn country only because they know that they cannot in any way survive in India, owing to the loans they took to pay for their education, the lack of employment and the unbelievably unfair wages. 
 
 Not everyone can afford to stay put in their home country and keep fighting for increased wages. They have family members who are ailing, children to take care of and need to put food on the table. So, they are ready to leave their family and put their lives on the line, only because they get twice or thrice more than what they get here.
 
 
 
 
 A lot of people are doing that but to be honest, we can only be virtual activists. They are the ones on ground zero, facing the plight. We can’t understand the desperation of being unemployed till we go actually through it. The lack of money and food, and not being able to take care of a loved one because you have huge loans, is not something everyone can understand – especially film actors, who seem to be the most affluent group. It takes a lot for me or any actor to relate to that desperation. I can think, ‘They must be so sad’; but that’s not the truth. Honestly, they don’t have the luxury to be sad. They have to keep going.
 
 When doing a movie which talks about the nurses, we are not making any claims that we are changing their lives in any way. We can only attempt to make people relate to them. But it is through the process of making the movie that we realised how they are living after they got back from the ordeal in Tikrit, Iraq. 
 
 Almost 90% of them are still jobless and some of them actually went back to Iraq! After going through such a nightmare, who in the right mind would return? But they couldn’t afford to stay back because they still families to support. So, in that case, I think the government and other authorities are still being cavalier about their situation.
 
 
 
 
 Most of my characters are everyday women. Rarely have I played a character who is one of a kind – Tessa from Charlie could be an exception. She’s not exactly a majority. Sameera is also an everyday woman. While creating and portraying her character, we kept in mind that the nurses watching the movie should be able to relate to Sameera. Playing a character means being another person, going through their struggles and feeling the pain they are going through. At the end of it all, I should be able to understand another perspective or other person’s way of life. That’s what I take home.
 
 
 
 I cannot be ungrateful and say it’s not happening. Currently, it’s true that more movies and offers are coming in, but for me, nothing has really changed. My criteria for picking a movie still remain the same as it was five years ago. I guess filmmakers find it easier to trust me with a character. It’s also a matter of market value and all those factors when you have more presence. I have never really understood those aspects and honestly don’t make an effort to do that either. 
 
 For me, even when my movies performed decently in the box office, I was supremely satisfied with my job. I might go back to the space where my movies may not make a lot of noise but a set of audience enjoy it and take something back with them. As long as that happens, I get to go back home and have a good night’s sleep with the satisfaction of having done a really good job. That is what I am hoping to remain true to.
 
 
 
 Not as good as it should be. When I hear people say that it ‘looks like’ an exciting time for women in Malayalam cinema, I want to tell them that it is not true. I think the first thing we should do is lose this unnecessary term called ‘female-oriented movies’. We never call a Mammootty-starrer, a male-oriented film, do we? Then why do we bother calling a movie, female-oriented? The minute we genderise movies, we have to talk about women in cinema and how we are faring.
 
  Our main priority should be to tell great stories and entertain people. That also needs to be consistent. One or two movies making some noise are not enough. Every three months, a movie which gives equal opportunities to men and women, irrespective of their age, needs to come.
 At this point, it’s bittersweet for me. People tell me, ‘At least this much is there on offer’. I am sorry but that is just settling! I don’t think that I will be happy or seem satisfied till we are getting remotely close to what we deserve.
 
 
 
 
 When it comes to changes in terms of content getting better, there seems to be an unreasonable fear within some sections of the industry about including artists of all gender and ages. It might be because of the fear of losing certain power or hold over the business. Politics or no politics, times are changing. Cinema cannot evolve when you only have spurts of progress, it needs to be consistent. 
 
 I certainly believe that artists of all genders must come together in demanding for better content and strive for it. Most of us tend to be complacent with what works as a formula. The danger in that is that it will eventually run out unlike content from real life that is sans any formula. Our job is to take cinema back to its truest form. We have to entertain through honest story telling.
 
 
 
 
 I am shooting for it right now. I am not allowed say much about my character or the film. It is a wonderful opportunity. It’s unbelievable that I landed this but I am in no way viewing this as some sort of big break or launch or anything. It doesn’t even feel like a Bollywood film. The way they are working and the sets, it’s like doing another Malayalam film. There is no nonsense, just work.
 
 
 
 
 Oh, yes. But I must tell you that as much as I love travel, travelling for work is the worst. You are not allowed to feel the cold even it is minus two degrees because you are still supposed to emote. Weather, culture and places – everything sort of becomes a blur.
 
