HYDERABAD: On the occasion of  , city doctors point out how the incidence of the disease, coupled with psychosis, is on the rise in Hyderabad.
Psychiatrists and neurologists also identified  's and dementia as two of the most common and serious brain degenerative diseases, both have an immense psychological and social impact.
 
 "Nearly 40% of those aged above 60, in Hyderabad, are diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. The incidence of Alzheimer's coupled with psychosis is presently on the rise in the city with 4 out of 10 people diagnosed with Alzheimer's also falling prey to psychosis. Ma nagement of these psychotic symptoms, hallucinations and anxiety is extremely important," said Dr Srinivas Kandrakonda, consultant neuropsychiatrist at Maxcure Hospitals, Madhapur. "Medication, which is primarily used to control the emotional effects, forms only 30% of the treatment required. Psychosocial-environmental factors around the patient also need to be controlled in order to control the person's negative thoughts," he added. Sounding a word of caution, Dr  , consultant neurologist at Aware Gleneagles Global Hospitals pointed out how individuals with health conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol at mid-age are more susceptible to Alzheimer's at a later stage.
 
 "Medical conditions such as diabetes, stroke, heart problems, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and obesity in mid-life are all known to increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.We can reduce their risk by keeping these under control.   is also a probable risk factor for dementia and thus treating this condition early is important," said Konduri.
 
 The early symptoms range from mild and gradual memory loss to speaking difficulty.
 
 "Gradual development of memory loss is one of the earliest symptoms. From forgetting day-to-day happenings to appointments and misplacing items, Alzheimer's patients suffer from crippling effects of the disease which make them dependent on those around them to carry on," explained Dr M Jayasree, consultant neurologist at   in Secunderabad.
 
 "As part of our commitment to sensitise society about dementia, we have organised 'Memory Walk', from KBR park to   Nightingales Trust Dementia Day care centre in Banjara Hills," said Sruthi Sivaraman, geriatric psychologist at Dementia centre.
 
