Have you ever grumbled to anyone willing to listen, about paying the   charges on your   bill, despite getting lousy service or a bad restaurant experience? Well, if you have, there is good news for you. On January 2, the Department of Consumer Affairs has announced that the ‘service charge’, which restaurants include in addition to taxes, are optional and not mandatory. A press release detailed that the service   is payable only on a consumer’s discretion and can be waived if the consumer is not happy with the service. Are restaurant owners welcoming the move? Is the customer feeling empowered? We speak to some prominent restaurateurs, service staff in restuarants and diners about this move…

 This move is the right way forward
 Personally, I think it is a welcome move. It is totally up to the discretion of the consumer, as the diner, whether they want to pay the service   or not. If I visit a restaurant myself, and I am dissatisfied with the service, I would not like to forcibly pay the service charge. So, I whole heartedly welcome this move. Speaking as a restaurateur, basic understanding on how service charges are distributed is pivotal. Usually, restaurants charge about 10% as service charges (not to be confused with service tax), of which about 5-8% is distributed among the service staff, and about 2% is levied as breakage. Since the move is relatively new, we do not know how the actual implementation is going to take place. But the Hotel Association of India, I am sure, will iron out the details soon. It is still too early to determine how it is going to affect the business, but it surely is the right way forward. 
 — Sam Paul, 
 Paulsons Group (owner of restaurants such as Jonahs, Sambhar) 
 
 Thanks to this move, the consumer is empowered, and competition will be fierce among restaurants 
 As a service provider and as a consumer, I whole-heartedly support this move. It is great that the consumer is being empowered, and it will only make the competition among establishments fierce. Restaurants across the city will now vie to make their services top-notch, so that their diners are satisfied with the experience and will willingly pay the service charges. Business-wise too, service charges are not part of our revenue model. So, there is not going to be a significant hit in the business either. The only flip side is that the service charges that are levied usually goes to the staff, and this move might hit their income to a significant degree. However, if the establishment takes it upon itself to improve the quality of service and train its staff suitably, then this situation can be avoided. The modalities are still being worked out, but overall, this is a welcome move. 
 — Rakesh Sethi, general manager, 
 The Raintree, St Mary’s Road 
 
 Generally, Indians as such are poor tippers
 For me, this whole move is very ironic, since I removed the service charge component from my restaurant about two-and-a-half years ago. And the reason I did that was simple — I did not want my customers to make a scene, if they are dissatisfied, and so they only have to pay what is mandatory, which is the service tax and the VAT. Generally, Indians as such are poor tippers, when compared to their European or American counterparts (tips there are at least 10% of the bill by default, and increases with the number of people). In India, the tips don’t even amount to 10% — for instance, for `2,000 or `3,000 bill, the tip is about `100...and that was before demonetisation. Talking from a restaurateur’s point of view, the fact that customers can choose to pay the service charge or not, can go 50-50, in terms of how it affects the business, for three main reasons. Firstly, most restaurant managements hardly distribute the service charges levied to the staff, especially in smaller establishments. Out of a 10% service charge, 5-6% is pocketed by the management and about 4-5% is what goes to the service staff. Secondly, it is important to understand that it is not yet a law. The customer has the discretion, and he can choose whether he wants to pay the amount or not. Which brings us to the third and most important factor to take into account, ‘who’ is the deciding authority in such a scenario? Finally, how are they going to factor this in for buffet restaurants? 
 — Nikhil Moturi, owner Crimson Chakra 
 
 Service charge is a problem creator
 We were thinking of stopping service charge in December itself, especially after demonetisation. There is not much of cash inflow and when people use their card, they generally don’t give a tip. As a customer, I don’t like the concept of service charge, but if I like the service, I make it a point to pay the waiters. Service charge is a problem creator according to me because immediately the expectations of the customers goes up. And a lot of people believe that it is the restaurateur’s responsibility to pay the waiters. But I would like to make it clear that almost 15% goes in as rent, 25% goes to labour charges, 10% goes in for marketing and then there is return in investment and expenses. In fact, half the time, there is not enough money for other things like fuel, maintenance charges, etc. I am glad India is reacting to this, but I would like to say that around the world, 20% of the actual bill is given as tip to the waiters. Whichever part of the world you go to, people expect you to give 20% of your bill. And if you don’t, you are considered to be a really cheap person. I am glad it is not mandatory and is voluntary, but in India, especially after demonetisation, things have become very different. People don’t have that kind of cash flow. So, I don’t know where this is headed. Although, this is a positive move, it should be taken in the right stride. The   industry is quite passiondriven with erratic timings and stress levels. If people expect a tip, I know what goes on in the background.
 — Chef Kaushik, owner, Maplai 
 
 Retaining employees in small restaurants will be difficult now
 I think customers will pay us the tip if they like the service. And if I don’t get the money, the management will take care of it. I think small restaurants will have an issue because there might be a financial crunch. Retaining their employees will be difficult, I feel.
 — Chandru, service staff, Maplai 
 
 We’re confident of our service
 The tips before the rule were entirely given to the service staff, and were not pocketed by the management. We are still waiting for clarity on NRAI’s definition of ‘good/bad service.’ So, as of now, we will not be changing our style of serving as we’re confident of our service. The rule came into effect just a few days ago, and is still ambiguous, as a result of which, it is challenging to understand the modalities now. We hope to gain more clarity in a week or so.
 — Japtej A, owner, Double Roti 
 
 What the public says:
 
 Now, we will be charged more for food
 I feel it’s the responsibility of the owner to pay their employees. But I also feel that if the service charge is removed, customers will be charged more for food. Demonetisation has nothing to do with this move. At least in Chennai, no one pays by cash. The point of demonetisation is to have a cash-free economy and restaurants are making their money. 
 — Swathi Vijaykrishnan, financial analyst 
 
 It will only leave us arguing with restaurant staff
 I think most of the hotels won’t comply with it even though the rule has been implemented. It will only leave us arguing with restaurant staff. I feel they will hike the prices of the dishes because of this move. Customers must check what they are paying for. This move has not affected the billing system, but yes we have started thinking about paying the parking guy, waiter, etc. 
 — Vaishnavi B, analyst 
 
 I don’t like when I am forced to leave a tip
 I think when it comes to service charge, there should be a limit. Some restaurants charge 2%, whereas some other places charge 20%. That doesn’t work. I will leave a tip if I like the service, but I don’t like it when I am forced to leave a tip.
 — Sai Rohit, IT consultant 
 
 I like to tip based on my satisfaction
 It is a good move. In most cases, the service charge goes into the pockets of the owners. We never know what they do with the money. No waiter will go against the management asking for service charge. If they hike the price of food items, we will immediately get to know. These days, people check apps before heading to a restaurants, so if they have tampered with the menu card charges, we will know. I prefer tipping based on my satisfaction. It should not be forced on us. 
 — Paramaguru Muthukumar, lawyer 
 
 
