Gurgaon: Public transport is a puzzle this city is yet to solve but a large piece of the jigsaw fell into place on Friday when   started running its trains along Golf Course Road, connecting the thickly populated Huda sectors, DLF phases and Sushant Lok to the Delhi Metro grid at Sikanderpur.

 Rapid Metro, India’s first mass transit system that is privately built and operated, flagged off its first train on the Phase-2 corridor at 3pm on Friday. Full-fledged commercial operations will be available from 6.05am on Monday. The three-coach, Siemens-manufactured rakes will make the 7km journey from Sector 55/56, the terminal station, to Sikanderpur in 10-12 minutes. 
 
 In order to ensure maximum people use this system, the Sector 42-43 and 53-54 stations have a parking facility of 400 cars. Rapid Metro is also in touch with a firm that operates e-rickshaws to provide last-mile connectivity to commuters.
 
 Rajiv Banga, managing director and CEO, of IL&FS Rail, the company that runs Rapid Metro, said, “It is our endeavour to provide a world-class, safe and convenient mode of commute to residents of Gurgaon. With increasing traffic and pollution levels, use of mass transit system is the need of the hour, and with the commencement of this phase, our commuters can look forward to continued convenient services and better infrastructure.”
 
 The authorities did not give out the number passengers on Day One or the number of trips made. Most commuters who turned up on the first day were the ones who had read about the launch and wanted to have a first-hand experience. One of them, marketing executive Ashok Kumar, said, “We had been reading that Rapid Metro will start its operations. But since the launch date kept getting postponed, I wanted to be sure that this time around, it was actually starting operations and came to see it. My office is located in Cyber City and I will use the Metro regularly.”
 
 Those travelling to Delhi will also save time. “It used to take 25 minutes to reach the Delhi Metro station at Sikanderpur. But now, residents living in areas around Golf Course Road and Sector 56 will cover the same distance in 10 minutes,” said Rachna Pant, a Sector 56 resident who too was among first-day commuters.
 
 While three stations in the second phase – DLF 1, Sector 42-43 and Sector 53-54 — have only one level, the last two — Sector 54 and Sector 55-56 — are bigger and have a concourse level that has a ticket area. “The maximum number of commuters will be using the last two stations, and therefore, they are slightly bigger. The look of the stations is developed to fit in with the identity of their urban neighbourhoods. The uniquely shaped lattice roof invokes the feeling of openness and brightness as well,” Banga said.
 
 
