CHARMINAR: It has been more than 25 days since work to lay cables was taken up by authorities in front of   in Karwan, but till date the   and   have not been repaired. 

 Inordinate delay in completing the work has left motorists and residents fuming. A portion of the lane from old Tappachabutra police station leading towards Sabzimandi was dug up for laying cables and heaps of soil and rocks litter the road,   living in the area.
 
 Though authorities were informed about the leaking pipelines, the problem still persists. "I fell from my bike and injured my shoulder due to the bad condition of the road. Now I have to visit a hospital every other day for treatment. First the road was dug up for laying cables which damaged sewage and water pipelines. In spite of assuring us that they would solve the problem in a couple of days, no step has been taken so far,"  , a resident, told TOI. 
 
 Residents also alleged that the area corporator and authorities concerned were called several times but there was no response. Locals living in the area fear people might have to suffer for a long time due to the apathy of the authorities. "It has been over three weeks, but no action has been taken to ease the woes of residents. Before elections, leaders came to us and asked about our problems and promised to help. But those promises seem to be hollow. The authorities have turned a blind eye to our problems,'' added Raqib Ali, a resident.
 
 Motorists heading towards Sabzimandi, Punchbhaialawa and other areas from Tappachabutra main road are forced to slow down due to the poor conditions. Apart from affecting traffic movement, the area has turned into an accident-prone zone as several motorists have met with accidents due to the dug-up roads. To make matters worse, there are no police personnel to monitor traffic movement at the Tappachabutra road. 
 
 "The dug-up road before the houses are lying unattended for weeks and its risky for children and aged people to go out," a resident added.
 
