The   (SJM), an RSS outfit, has written to PM Narendra Modi accusing arms of the government– health ministry, department of pharmaceuticals (DoP), department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) and the Niti Aayog– of “acting against what you have promised the people of India” in terms of bringing down the price of medicines and medical devices. 

 It said the three departments and the Aayog were lobbying “in a concerted fashion for the crass commercial interests of the pharmaceutical sector”. The SJM said the DoP had colluded with pharma companies to change the ceiling price formula from one based on cost of production to “an irrational market-based formula that legitimises profiteering”. So powerful is the hold of pharmaceuticals companies that the secretaries and joint secretaries of the three ministries are now holding meetings with the Niti Aayog to completely dismantle the system of price control, alleged the letter. 
 
 It pointed out that the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) was working to bring coronary stents under price control and was capping the price of several medicines for cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. It was doing so using special powers vested with the government to act in public interest under the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO) 2013. “These activities have not been liked by the above mentioned ministries and secretaries, particularly the DoP, and plans are afoot to sabotage the NPPA,” stated the letter. 
 
 On the “Committee for Ensuring Enhanced Accessibility of   to the Poor” formed on March 31 and chaired by a DoP joint secretary, the SJM said, “Its real purpose is to... ultimately to abort any attempt to do effective price control and make medicines affordable in India.” Referring to the Niti Aayog’s recommendation in its Three Year Action Agenda that the DPCO be delinked from the National List of Essential Medicines, SJM said it was an “ill-intenioned recommendation” which would increase the price of essential medicines. 
 
 “We have been compelled to write this letter to the PM because of the undue influence of the pharmaceutical industry, especially multinational companies, on these ministries. They are not working in sync with the policies of the Modi government. If the companies are aggrieved by the announcement of the PM about generic drugs and price control, let them protest. You are running the government. Why are you pleading for the industry?,” Dr Ashwami Mahajan of SJM told TOI.
 
