 glaciers are melting due to global warming and climatologists believe this could also be true of permafrost in the Indian Himalayan Region (IHR). Scientists fear this may lead to climate change and a spurt in natural disasters like avalanches. Under the circumstances, the study, the first of its kind in the region, could be instrumental in understanding the phenomenon of permafrost thawing and damage control.

 The Indo-Swiss study has mapped permafrost in the mountains of Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh for the first time. It concludes that it is spread over an area of 420 squar e kms (9% of the total land area excluding glaciers) and states that this hidden component of the Himalayan cryosphere could already be melting.
 
 The study, which was conducted by the Indian Himalayas Climate Adaptation Programme (IHCAP), a project of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and the department of science and technology (DST), says warm air currents are responsi ble for thawing permafrost in the Himalayan region.
 
 “Given that mean annual air temperature (MAAT) over Kullu has warmed by up to 2 degrees Celsius over the past century, it is almost certain that permafrost distribution has altered substantially over recent decades,“ states the study. According to Dr Simon Allen, a research associate at the department of Geography, University of Zurich, Switzerland, who was part of the IHCAP team, permafrost is thawing and this just needs to be proved with numbers.
 
 “Rise in air temperature means corresponding rise in ground temperature, which, in turn, results in permafrost thawing. In Kullu, this is has started to happen. The permafrost in the Himalayas is melting. It just needs to be proved with further studies in the IHR,“ said Dr Allen.
 
 Dr  , a scientist at the   (NIH), Roorkee, and coordinator of the   (IPN), says current research is being done on the hypothesis that permafrost thaw and climate change are linked in the Indian Himalayan region.
 
 “However, we need to conduct some focused study to say something concrete about the linkages between permafrost thaw and climate change in the region.Yes, we are working with the hypothesis that both are linked but we have to wait for numbers to emerge,“ said Dr Thayyen. Some studies have already pointed out that per mafrost is melting in other Himalayan areas like the Khumbu region of Nepal and the Tibet an Plateau.
 
 While Khumbu re gion has recorded an in crease in the lower eleva tion limit of permafrost up to 300 metres, in the Tibetan plateau, presence of permafrost has gone up by 80 metres.
 
 Sounding an alarm, the study further states that “Such a shift of permafrost in other Himalayan regions indicate that higher slopes in the Indian Himalayan region may also be in danger of sinking and that may result in natural hazards.“
 
 This study was initiated to identify terrain susceptible to warming and thawing of permafrost due to climate change to ascertain potential hazards. It expresses serious concern over the meltdown.
 
 “More than half of the total mapped permafrost area in Kullu is characterized by low slope angles where debris can accumulate. Further warming of perma frost can result in landslides and floods,“ states the report.
 
 “Permafrost melting can also trigger rock avalanches that can damage high mountain   and lead to much more devastating and far-reaching disasters if glacial lakes are impacted, resulting in floods,“ adds the report.
 
