PUNE: Those who vote at this month's civic elections can avail themselves of a 15-20% discount at hotels and restaurants at three   - Lonavla-Khandala, Mahabaleshwar and Matheran. 

 Alarmed by the abysmal voting percentage at the previous municipal,   and assembly elections, the state election commission had initiated several drives to encourage people to vote. 
 
 It was found in cities like Pune and Mumbai that citizens take the day off on election day, and enjoy a holiday at the nearest hill station. To curb this, state election commissioner J S Saharia met with the representatives of hotels associations from various hill stations in the state, and convinced them to give concessions.
 
 "The hotels in Lonavla-Khandala, Matheran and Mahabaleshwar will give concessions in restaurant bills, lodging and boarding charges for 3-7 days," said Reena Phansekar, SEC additional secretary.
 
 The meeting was also attended by collectors of Pune and Raigad districts, and the chief executive officers of the hill stations' municipal councils. 
 
 Hotel and restaurant owners were urged to put up banners and posters on their premises, and make appeals on their websites, to promote this initiative.
 
 "All the representatives (of the hotel association) agreed to give a concession of 15% in restaurant charges and 20% in lodging and boarding charges from February 21 to 28," said Subhash Bhagade, subdivisional officer, Maval taluka. 
 
 "There are 100 hotels and restaurants here, and a majority are ready to give concessions, subject to availability of rooms," said Azhar Contractor, president of the   and Khandala. "The hotels and restaurants have also started putting up banners and hoardings to appeal to voters," he added. 
 
 According to Asha Raut, chief officer,  , the roughly 300 hotels in the town will readily take part in the initiative. The local hotel association has decided to put up banners outside hotels, offer a 20% discount at hotels and 15% discount in restaurants to voters from February 21-23. 
 
 Mukesh Dave of the  , told TOI that they too have decided give a 20% hotel discount from February 21 to 28. 
 
