PUNE: Residents of   and its nearby areas heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday after a langur creating havoc was captured.

 The animal had bitten 24 residents of the locality near Khadakwasla over the past fortnight. Rescuers caught it after an operation lasting over two hours in the afternoon.
 
 Neelimkumar Khaire of the   (ARRC) at Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park told TOI: “The sarpanch of Nanded village informed us that the animal had bitten around 24 people, including children and senior citizens, over the past 15 days. We had tried to capture it once earlier.”
 
 The security officer of Nanded City alerted Khaire around 1pm on Saturday that the langur was spotted on the colony’s premises again after it had bitten another resident there. “We immediately formed a team and left for the spot. The commotion until we reached had driven the animal away. So, we spent the next hour locating it,” he said.
 
 After locating the langur, Khaire’s team summoned a youth confronted by the animal multiple times. “Within minutes, the animal came charging towards him when one of our veterinary officers shot him with a tranquiliser dart. The langur immediately pulled the dart out of its body, due to which barely 25% of the tranquiliser reached its body,” said Khaire.
 
 Thus began the wait for the animal to give in to the dart’s effects. “We followed the animal as it groggily tried to escape. Finally, it was caught in a net and brought back to ARRC after two hours. The animal is a male, aged between 4.5 and 5 years, and seems absolutely fit. It does not display any symptoms of rabies. We checked its body for any painful injuries that may have caused it to become aggressive. At this point it appears that it may have attacked people because of behaviour of humans in the area towards their pack,” he told TOI.
 
 When the ARRC team had gone to capture the animal earlier, a group of around 50 residents and villagers had accompanied it. The group was intent on killing the primate to exact revenge, owing to which the team had called off the operation, Khaire said. 
 
 On Saturday, the sarpanch and securitymen assured that no one would interfere in the team’s operation.
 
 Kids carried sticks
 
 A resident of Nanded City told TOI the langur attacks had worried the residents enough to stop their children from playing in the open lawns there. Those who did allow their children to go out to play, gave them sticks to ensure their safety if the animal showed up.
 
