GURGAON: Over two dozen Delhi-based transporters approached the Haryana transport department on Wednesday to register their protest about the state's new motor vehicle tax, after taxi unions had raised the issue. 

  "From April 1, taxis and buses are paying anywhere between Rs 100 and Rs 3,000 to enter Haryana. We asked state transport department officials in Rohtak to relax the norms, as it puts a lot of financial burden on transporters," said  , member of Bus Operator Association of Delhi. 
 
 Some transporters threaten to put up a protest if their demands are not met. "We have been requesting the officials to find a way to make it affordable for transporters to ply in Haryana. Earlier, such taxes were applicable in UP and Delhi. If Haryana also raises taxes, it will cost a lot for transporters to ply interstate. If new provisions to collect taxes are not taken back, we'll mount a big protest," said  , a Delhi-based transporter.
 
 According to the new motor vehicle tax, all types of taxes related to vehicles are now being collected by the regulatory wing of Haryana transport department. As per the notified Haryana Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 2016, motor tax and road tax have been consolidated into one Haryana Motor Vehicle Taxation Act. The taxes were already levied in Haryana and were supposed to be paid to the excise department. However, a majority of bus and cab owners in Delhi never paid the motor tax, leading to revenue losses.
 
 Transporters at the protest together have over 2,000 buses plying for schools, offices and tourists. Transport officials told TOI the buses are registered in Delhi, but ply in Haryana under All India Tourist Vehicle Permit (AITVP). 
 
 The new tax rules charges such buses Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 a day. Similarly, cabs are charged Rs 25-500 per day, depending on seating capacity. 
 
  "We've informed transporters they have to follow rules, because if a bus is registered outside Haryana, but is plying in the state under AITVP, it will have to pay the state tax. For a long time, cab owners were flouting   norms by plying in NCR on AITVP, instead of an NCR taxi permit, to save taxes and registration fees," said  , additional transport commissioner, Haryana. Nearly 12,000 Gurgaon-based taxis are currently operating in the NCR under AITVP, but only five Gurgaon-based cabs have been issued the NCR taxi permit in the past six months. 
 
 
