PANAJI: The Goa Children’s Court has sentenced  , a teacher at a playschool in Panaji, to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 1 year and also directed her to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh for abusing and slapping a two-and-a-half-year-old child.

 Fernandes was accused of physically and psychologically abusing the minor boy by slapping him on his face, hands and also by twisting his ears and pinching his legs thereby subjecting him to corporal punishment in school. The incident had taken place in 2012.
 
 The president of the court,  , held that the accused “breached the trust of the ‘child’ in her care, as well as his parents’’.
 
 “As rightly argued on behalf of the prosecution, teachers are the second parents of the students, who are left in their custody by their parents with the confidence that their children are safe and secure with the teachers. The age of victim boy in this case was just two-and-a-half-year-old, which is a very tender age,” she observed.
 
 According to the accused, the boy was speaking in Marathi and she did not interact with him as she was unable to converse in that language. “Such statement of accused indirectly reveals her disliking for the victim boy as language should not have been a barrier to the teacher of a playschool to interact with her student,” the court observed.
 
 It further observed that the boy stated in clear terms that the accused used to punch him, slap him and pull his ears for small mistakes. On one occasion, he was assaulted badly by the teacher on his cheeks and hands. The trauma was such that he couldn’t disclose this to his father when dropped home. He would also return home with the woolen cap covering his ears and cheeks which he would normally wear while going to the school. It was only when his grandmother splashed water on his face that he cried out in pain and disclosed what had happened.
 
 The prosecution examined seven witnesses in the case.
 
 Fernandes has been convicted under Section 8 (1) r/w Sections 4(12) and 2(m)(i), punishable under Section 8 (2) of Goa Children’s Act, 2003. 
 
