GORAKHPUR: As   in   remained closed for the second consecutive day on Thursday,   to as high as Rs 250 per kg from Rs 150 per kg, after   on   in the city on Monday and Tuesday. 

 "As the number of customers have increased a lot after the 'buff' ban, I have increased the price of chicken to manage the rush," said a chicken seller in city on condition of anonymity.
 
 "Two days ago, I had purchased chicken at Rs 150 per kg but now it has risen to Rs 210 per kg. It will be difficult for us to afford chicken if prices continue to rise," said  , a customer who had come to buy chicken at a shop in Kundraghat area.
 
 Meanwhile, corporator of Jafra Bazar Rita Rawat, along with buff-sellers, met DM Sandhaya Tiwari on Wednesday and also handed over a memorandum to her, wherein the traders demanded that either the government constructed a slaughterhouse and grant licences to shops or the buffalo meat sellers should be given alternative jobs. "There are 15 such shops in Jafra Bazar area and after licence-checking exercise, the shopkeepers haven't opened their shops," she said.
 
 On Thursday, buffalo meat sellers in Gorakhpur shut shops in protest against the recent police action against traders selling beef without licenses.  , a beef seller in Jafra Bazaar, said, "The government has closed our shops as we didn't renew our licence. The only slaughterhouse in the district was closed down in 2002 and thus our license has not been renewed since then"
 
 "It is not justified as the government is not banning other kinds of meat like mutton, chicken and pork. We are not even selling cow's meat, we are only selling buffalo meat," said Nizamuddin.
 
 Amid the desperation of buff sellers, mutton and chicken sellers in the city are also worried about the future. " So far, the police have not checked our licence. We are selling mutton but we also don't have renewed licence as there is no slaughterhouse in the district. I'm very worried what will happen to me and my family," said Nawab Ali, a mutton seller at Buxipur.
 
 
