MUMBAI: Move over the leggy lass sprawled over a motor vehicle and staring down at you from the billboard. 

 Car giants have lined up a bevy of shiny showstoppers at the fifth edition of the   (MIMS) presented by The Times of India that will bring car and bike enthusiasts and manufacturers of the latest automotive wonders from around the world under the same roof at the  , Bandra-Kurla Complex between March 9 and 12.
 
 It was in 2009 that the MIMS made its grand debut and has grown into a biannual event that is billed as one of the largest auto shows in the city showcasing the latest brands and technologies in the automotive market that also brought manufacturers closer to their target audiences with a healthy dose of entertainment.
 
 In a spectacular display of automobile engineering this year, the auto pavilion will feature an extensive showcase of domestic and international car and bike brands Volvo, Mini, Mercedes Benz, Isuzu, Mahindra Electric, Jeep, BMW, Volkswagen, Honda, Ford, Toyota, Nissan, UM Bikes, Vespa, Aprilia, Moto Guzzi, Harley Davidson and Ducati.
 
 Besides marquees dedicated to accessories, tyres and technology, entertainment in the form of four shows of stunt biking everyday where bike-borne riders freestyle on two wheels and pass through rings of fire will keep enthusiasts engaged. Another highlight includes a display of 15 modified Harley bikes designed to a different look and feel meant to reflect the personality of the biker. And those with a passion for the past can head to another corner to browse a classic collection of vintage cars dating back to the fifties. 
 
 That apart, people were asked to share photographs of their modified two-wheelers contests on social media and then invited to showcase their creations at MIMS, a ticketed event.
 
 “The Times Auto Show is a platform for us to connect with our customers. While showcasing what we have to offer, we also get to know their needs better. For us this is a test zone,” said Kamal Basu, head marketing and PR for Volkswagen India.
 
