JAIPUR:  , a 1982 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was on Monday appointed as the   (DGP) by the  . Singh replaced outgoing   Manoj Bhatt who retired from the service on Monday.

 Ajit Singh was holding the position of DG (prisons), additional DGP Sunil Kumar Mehrotra has now been given the additional charge of state prison department. Ajit Singh was instrumental in leading talks with Rajput leaders during the crucial hours of Anandpal Singh encounter agitation which unfolded in Nagaur last month and took violent turn. Himself from Rajput community, Singh was sent to violence-hit Sanvarad village of Nagaur as the government’s emissary to find a common ground with protesters.
 
 Sigh hails from Jaipur and completed his school education in the city, and graduated from St. Stephen's College in New Delhi. He carved a niche for himself as ‘efficient cop,’ with clean image who resisted undue influences in policing. Singh severed as superintendent of police (SP) in Jhalawar, Sawai Madhopur, Jodhpur, Jaipur (City) and Sirohi. “My priority as DG would be what every cop’s duty is- to uphold law and order,” Ajit Singh told TOI on Monday night.
 
 “He is an upright officer with proven track record. As ADGP Crime, he cracked famous Kota child kidnapping case. But the highlight of his police career was when he headed Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). During his tenure, ACB registered as many as 600 cases in a year, highest in the country,” said a senior police official who worked closely with him. 
 
 While Singh is known as no-nonsense officer, the new police chief has his task cut out. The influx of illegal weapons from neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and   into Rajasthan remains a prime concern for men-in-khaki.
 
 Similarly, Singh will be heading the force at a time when organized crime has reared its ugly head once again. The Lawrence Bishnoi gang and Sethi gangs have been posed new challenges. Few months ago, Bishnoi gang had carried out shooting in Jodhpur to extort money from a leading city based doctor. Apart from law and order, the western districts of Jaislmer, Barmer, and Bikaner have witnessed spike in espionage activities from Pakistan, prompting police headquarters to deploy effiecent officers and sizeable resources in border and counter-intelligence operations. “Singh is a sharp office who has a scholarly understanding of IPC and Indian criminal procedure code. He has zero tolerance for indiscipline,” a senior IPS officer told TOI. The 89,316 strong force will hope to revive its ground intelligence network, which was lost in the ear of technical surveillance.
 
 
