KOCHI: Scare gripped   on Friday as a dog reportedly rabid went on a biting spree in the area injuring at least 20 people. 

 The dog attacked residents, including students returning from school. The dog was killed by residents.
 
 According to sources, the incident occurred around 4pm .
 
 Residents sustained severe injuries. A team led by MLA  , municipality chairperson  , health department officials and local body members came to the aide of the injured. They were first taken to a local hospital in Perumbavoor. Around 15 of them were later referred to Kalamassery medical college.
 
 Cherthala native Bineesh; Peramangalam native Shivadasan; Mudickal native Leela; Palathinkal Paul; Edavoor native Jibin; Jiji Shaji Aimury; an eight-year-old Abhishek; Chellama of Iringole; Sarasamma of Turutipli; Antony from Pattal and Hamsa from Mudicakal are among the injured. 
 
 “The dog went on a rampage. Even a child walking by the road was attacked,” said Ramesh Perumbavoor, a resident.
 
 Meanwhile, the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme, implemented by the Kochi corporation to sterilize street dogs to find a solution to the rising dog menace, had sterilized 3,200 dogs so far.
 
 The sterilization of these dogs has been carrying out since May 2015. 
 
 Veterinary Dr Kishorekumar K J said: “It is estimated that there are around 6,000 to 8,000 street dogs in the corporation limit. Dog catchers bring six to eight dogs per day to sterilize. Catchers are finding it difficult to get dogs which are not sterilized. Earlier, they used to bring dog by 9am. Now they get dogs by afternoon.”
 
 While a senior surgeon in the district veterinary hospital in the animal husbandry department said vaccination of dogs continue without any hurdle in Ernakulam. 
 
 “There is no shortage of anti-rabies vaccine in the district. The incident on Friday happened after a small gap,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the police said that though many suffered bites, no official complaint was made in this regard.
 
 “By the time we reached the spot, residents had already killed the dog,” said a police officer.
 
 
