BENGALURU: For the last 51 years,   has been practising  , the ancient theatre form. Suvarna, a class 2 dropout, trained under 21 different gurus. Suvarna, who belongs to a poor family and dropped out of school in class 2, said that learning the dance form was the only option he had. 

 “At that time, survival was key. So, I started learning Yakshagana. Like in the gurukul system, I’d live with my gurus, learnt from them, performed chores and they’d take care of my food and stay. Initially, that is what I was interested in. However, after getting into it, I grew interested in preserving our ancient traditions,” said the director of Yakshagana Kendra, Udupi.
 
 Performing at the two-day seminar organized by Dhaatu, titled ‘The philosophy of the culture of the rice belt art forms in India’, ahead of the international  , Suvarna enacted snippets from a typical Yakshagana fare, like the scene preparing for war. Vidya Shankar Hoskere, co-director of Dhaatu, an NGO, said India was revered the world over for being the motherland of  , but we were letting go of this ancient gift.
 
 “In 2011, we got the chance to learn about puppetry as an art form in countries like the Czech Republic, France and Belgium. Once there, we saw how much more foreigners knew about our culture. They have taken the basic format from us and adapted it to their culture, like producing Romeo and Juliet,” he said. This year, there are participants from Indonesia, Sri Lanka and the Czech Republic.
 
 Hoskere said puppetry is a composite art form, which, though not classical itself, draws from music, dance, theatre and poetry to create something new. From a presentation on the masks of Sri Lanka to a discourse on the nature of dance sculptures in Karnataka, the seminar covered a variety of topics. The annual puppet festival has been a hit for the last many years. This year among other things, people can look forward to swinging marionettes from the Czech Republic and string puppet shows from across the country.
 
 Of Yakshagana’s enduring appeal 
 
 A single bell, hundreds of which form the anklet that Guru Sanjeev Suvarna wears during his performances, costs nearly Rs 100. The market price for the ordinary ones though is just Rs 3. This is because there’s only one family left in Udupi which crafts these bells with silver and an alloy and the tinkling sound they produce is unique. 
 
 S A Krishnaiah, a researcher of Karnataka folklore, says so nuanced is the sound of bells made with silver and an alloy that they were first incorporated into Bharatnatyam and then Odissi; such is the impact Yakshagana on other art forms. Sharanya, a theatreperson and an Yakshagana student under Guru Suvarna, says that it is one of the oldest functioning theatres in the world. 
 
 “There are over 300 seasonal melas and festivals, especially in Malenadu, that go on all night. People still come in hordes and pay to see it, as they can expect something different each time,” says Sharanya. According to her, the source of Yakshagana’s enduring appeal lies in the fact that it has evolved with time, and accommodates spontaneity in narrative, allowing the individual to improvise on stage. “Interestingly, during the emergency when free speech was restricted, Yakshagana dancers incorporated their dissent into the dialogues,” she recalls. 
 
 
