HYDERABAD: This  , city doctors suggest measures to beat the   and mental trauma triggered by diagnosis of a critical illness like cancer or organ failure in a family member or close friend. The trauma runs deep into the brain and it may often lead to suicidal tendencies. Understanding the disease better, physical activity, sharing of love and care, and proper medical support will go a long way in beating the depression.

 The   (WHO) has called upon people to discuss their mentally pressing issues so that the burden of depression is minimised. This year's World Health Day has focussed on depression. Depression triggered by domestic and office chores can be overcome quite easily, but the one created by the revelation of someone close suffering from a life-threatening disease is hard to beat. But city doctors say that depression, howsoever severe, can be fought with simple but effective measures like medication and psychological support. The fear of losing someone close can be overcome through proper counselling. “Diseases like cancer is life changing diagnosis for most people. Besides the obvious physical effects, cancer also inflicts a range of emotional reactions. People tend to get overwhelmed with the huge implications of cancer diagnosis on their own health and future of their loved ones. They undergo various stages of emotional reactions starting from denial phase, to feelings of anxiety, anger, resentment, sadness, frustration, guilt and loneliness. Often people fluctuate between these emotional states. Similar emotions are often experienced by family members and friends too,“ says Dr  , senior consultant psychiatrist, Citizens Speciality Hospital. According to Dr Venugopal, in a large proportion of patients (ranging from 30 to 50 per cent in different studies), the emotional upheaval gives way to full-fledged depressive and anxiety disorders. “These are generally characterised by continuous feelings of sadness, lack of interest in favourite activities, excessive tiredness, guilt and hopelessness accompanied by sleep and appetite disturbances. Severely depressed patients may start to harbour suicidal thoughts and a small percentage can even try to attempt it,“ he warns.
 
 Doctors suggest that depression should be addressed at the first sign of its presence. Otherwise, it will impact the disease itself and may lead to severe health issues, which otherwise could have been avoided. The prevalence rate in Hyderabad is slightly higher than the country's average. 
 
 The Hyderabad Psycho-oncology   (a group of mental health and cancer specialists from various hospitals and academics from IIT-H) hold meetings to create awareness among people against depression.
 
