HYDERABAD:  , a category earlier limited to business-related trips and assignments, has now become a hot favourite among travellers in Hyderabad, say booking agents.

 Data collected by online travel agency Cleartrip shows that the number of bookings made by solo travellers in India since January 2017 was highest in Hyderabad when compared to other metros such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Pune. While across the country, solo travellers contributed to 65% of the overall bookings, in Hyderabad this figure touched 77%.
 
 “Over the past one year and in 2017, we have seen a significant surge in the number of travellers embarking on solo trips. Travellers are gradually waking up to realise that solo travelling offers a serene, introspective experience,” said Balu Ramachandran, head of air and distribution at Cleartrip. 
 
 Travelyaari, an online bus booking platform that deals with tours, packages and hotels, reported a 9% hike in the number of solo travel bookings from Hyderabad over the last one year. The highest number of solo travel bookings was recorded by Travelyaari in December 2016.
 
 “As there are many long weekends this year, travellers have an opportunity to pack their bags and set off on a trip every other month. Statistics collected between April 2016 and 2017 indicate an increase of 3.5% in the total number of solo travellers. Bengaluru and Chennai top the list with an increase of 56% and 52% respectively during the past year, while the number of travellers from Delhi and Mumbai increased by 13% and 9% respectively followed by Hyderabad,” said Aurvind Lama, co-founder and CEO at Travelyaari.
 
 According to tour operators, the number of solo women travellers is also on the rise in Hyderabad and across the country. “Data collected between April 2016 and 2017 shows how women made up for 24% of the total solo travellers across the country,” said Ramachandran.
 
 Kunal Mathur, head of weekend getaways at TravelTriangle.com, said that his portal reported an equal number of men and women embarking on solo trips. “We found that men and women are at par when it comes to taking solo trips. For women travellers, two of the favourite destinations are   in   and Rishikesh in  ,” said Mathur.
 
