KOLKATA: Faced with rampant, no-holds-barred   on  , often directly aimed at   against different sections of society , the two top officers of   and Kolkata Police came out with a joint appeal, asking people not to fall prey to these falsehoods.

 The joint appeal, which officials called unprecedented, came at a press conference addressed by state director-general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha and city police commissioner Rajeev Kumar on Monday afternoon. Officials later shared with TOI several instances of rumour-mongering, some of which have already led to violence, and which have increasingly moved closer to the city. The appeal was accompanied by a stern warning to mischief makers; 25 people have already been arrested across the state.
 
 TOI, in its Sunday and Monday editions, has reported one such case of an elderly US-resident woman being beaten up and her disabled daughter being stripped and their car set on fire in Hooghly's Balagarh.
 
 On Monday , there were reports of such rumours -again circulated on WhatsApp -that led to a law-andorder problem in two different areas of the city . Officials said the press briefing by two of Bengal's seniormost police officers followed the growing realisation that this needed to be tackled head-on and came after directives from chief minister  's office.
 
 At least six districts -Nadia, Burdwan, Hooghly, Bankura and the two 24-Parganas -are the worst hit, but sources said similar plots were being hatched in Kolkata too. On January 16, one person was lynched at Kalna in Burdwan on the suspicion of being a thief and four were seriously injured.Since then, the pattern has just repeated itself in quick succession. Saturday was the worst due to rumo urs, with three incidents being repor ted in just 12 hours. Cops said two crucial arrests --of Ranaghat residents Sudip Majumdar and Jayanta Datta -and the apprehension of a schoolgoer from Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas may lead them to the actual plotters. “We are hopeful of a crackdown soon,“ said a senior investigator.
 
 At least six incidents were reported from Birohi Ayeshpur, Birohi Sonakhali, Ranaghat, Haringhata and Natungram near Krishnanagar (all in Nadia), Gayeshpur and Palta in North 24-Parganas, Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas and Balagarh in Hooghly . The victims have included people from all strata of society: a 45year-old disabled teacher travelling with her mother, daily wage-earners and even saleswomen. Cops have not been spared too, with IC Haringhata himself getting injured during a rescue operation.
 
 The police top brass said they had leads that show a group was actually fanning unrest. “For the past 15 days, there are rumours some masked men are entering the districts and they are being blamed for dacoity, molestation and child kidnapping.We want to tell everyone these have no resemblance on the ground and are false propaganda. We will not allow innocents to be targeted. Even the elderly and the vagabonds are being beaten up. We will arrest each one of these troublemakers,“ said DGP Purkayastha.
 
 “We are using mikes in the affected areas. The SDOs and BDOs are meeting as many people as possible. We are sending SMSes wherever possible. We have roped in the IB. The probe so far points to a broader sinister plan and the possibility one individual or a closed group might be behind creating this fear,“ said a senior officer.
 
 (With input from Ashis Poddar in Ranaghat)
 
