Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) in its chargesheet has said that IDBI Bank officials, who have been arrested in the   case, diluted the security requirements in respect to the Rs 950-crore loan in two stages — before and after the loan sanction — thereby facilitating disbursement. The chargesheet highlights several instances where the sanction process was weakened to allow loans to a company that was rated sub-investment grade and did not fall within IDBI Bank’s own parameters for credit-worthy companies. Also, the bankers waived requirement for additional security while advancing this loan, the chargesheet said.

 One indication of the dilution was that liquor baron   shrank his declared net worth by 80% in nine days. While his statement of assets in respect of an earlier term loan gave Rs 1,395 crore as his net worth on March 31, 2009, at the time of offering a personal guarantee his net worth was shown as only Rs 285 crore. The agency has said that there was no intent on the part of Mallya to repay and there was a criminal conspiracy to this end.
 
 Besides IDBI Bank, there is a consortium of 16 lenders that is collectively fighting legal battles to recover   worth over Rs 6,000 crore of the principal advanced to Kingfisher Airlines from promoter Mallya and his group companies. While Mallya is currently in the UK and refusing to return to India, the CBI last week arrested 10 people, including   and IDBI Bank officials, on charges of conspiracy and causing a loss to the public sector bank.
 
 In the chargesheet that runs into several hundred pages, witness statements and documents, the CBI has said that in the pre-sanction stage B K Batra, executive director, O V Bundellu, deputy MD, S K V Srinivasan, executive director, with the consent and knowledge of the chairman Yogesh Agarwal, who approved the minutes, deliberately omitted to include the pledge of unencumbered shares as collateral. 
 
 It said they also failed to recover the short-term loan of Rs 150 crore from the corporate loan of Rs 750 crore despite both loans being for the same purpose. In the post-sanction stage, the chargesheet states that the officials relaxed the pre-disbursement and security creation condition. These were the same conditions that were highlighted to address risk concerns raised by the risk management department.
 
 The report states that while Sridhar sought to recover the short-term loan of Rs 150 crore and tried to obtain additional security in the form of unencumbered shares, the same was denied by Mallya. The chargesheet quotes an e-mail where Mallya informs his chief finance office that IDBI Bank cannot be given additional shares as they are part of the same consortium and will be entitled to the same securities as other banks. He also said that the first loan of Rs 150 crore was outside the consortium and would be repaid on maturity.
 
 
