BENGALURU: Every district in Karnataka seems to be grappling with an environmental problem—from drought and agricultural distress to loss of lakes and forest fires, all of them results of rapid urbanization and  . “We have ignored the environment and are behaving like an urban child, who thinks a loaf of bread comes from the bakery,” said Kamaljit S Bawa, distinguished professor of biology at University of Massachusetts, US, and founder of Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment (ATREE) in Bengaluru.

 It’s not impossible to fix the problem, though it will require a change in governance, said Bawa, on the sidelines of the 13th Agricultural Science Congress, where he delivered the plenary address on climate change, ecosystem services and agriculture. “Governance is rather rigid here. So, we do not look at holistic solutions that consider social, political and economic aspects. We need coordination between different experts — foresters have to think beyond wildlife and of their interaction with farms in the vicinity; people in agriculture have to look at water, forests and other resources they use,” said Bawa, who has worked in the eastern Himalaysince the 1960s. 
 
 “In many cases, natural solutions are the cheapest,” he said, citing the example of New York state which proved that protecting watersheds was less expensive than having many water purification plants.
 
 The fault is also with research institutions, which have not risen to the challenge of collaborating to bring solutions out of laboratories and into people’s lives. “104 satellites at one go, sorry, I’m not impressed. Why can’t we have wall-to-wall monitoring of forests if we are so proud of our space programme? There are countries doing this, like Mexico. We need thorough monitoring of forest cover and must make the data available to everyone so it can be used in multiple ways,” said Bawa.
 
 Moving to the global context, he said India is unlikely to meet the reforestation targets it committed to at the 2015 UN   in Paris (COP 21) as its programmes are not geared to counter the increase in energy consumption. “Per capita energy consumption in India—currently a third of the global average— is expected to double by 2040. We made commitments to increase carbon sequestration by a very large amount. If we go at the current rate and even double the rate, we won’t meet them,” he said.
 
 India’s lack of data on the rate of deforestation is a hurdle to meeting these goals. While government surveys say Indian forests are flourishing, independent surveys are definitive about loss. “Why is that? Why can’t the Forest Survey of India bring together people who differ and have an honest dialogue? They have resources and mandate to accurately depict changes in forest cover, and unless we document those changes correctly, we cannot protect them,” he said.
 
