LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: In a major breach of security in the highest echelons of governance, unidentified persons managed to smuggle in one of the deadliest plastic explosives, PETN, inside the Uttar Pradesh assembly, thumbing the nose at the precinct's three-tier security system.

 Police sources said   (PETN) in crystalline form, weighing around 150gm, was possibly sneaked inside the House on the night of Tuesday July 11 to trigger an explosion later.
 
 The explosive was detected on Wednesday July 12 morning when the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) was sanitizing the House premises as part of the mandatory daily drill whenever the assembly is in session. The squad found a blue carry bag under the seat cushion at the right end of the third row. Inside the bag, the squad found another plastic pack et containing between 100 gm to 150 gm of colourless and odourless crystals. The team placed the packet before a sniffer dog. Senior police officers said that since there was no odour, the dog did not react.
 
 However, despite absence of other suspicious components like wire, fuse, electronic circuit or batteries, the squad handed over the packet to marshals, who informed the chief minister's security personnel and cops. The packet was sent for forensic examination on Wednesday and on Friday morning, the findings confirmed the substance was PETN.
 
 Speaking in the House, chief minister Adityanath Yogi said it was “like a terror plot".
 
 The explosive, belonging to nitroglycerin and nitrocellulose chemical family , was believed to have been used in the blast outside the Delhi high court in 2011, and is a favourite with al Qaeda and Pakistan-based terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is known to have used it in Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 The explosive was found underneath a seat allotted to the Samajwadi Party . If it had been triggered, it would have inflicted maximum damage on SP MLAs and posed serious threat to the lives of the Speaker, the CM, senior ministers and MLAs attending the budget session. The revelation sent the serity paraphernalia into a tiz curity paraphernalia into a tizzy; security around Vidhan Bhawan was bolstered on Thursday night itself.
 
 Yogi cleared a probe by the National Intelligence Agency and also chaired a meeting with principal secretary, home, Arvind Kumar and DGP Sulkhan Singh, directing the officials to review security of the assembly with more stringent access control. Besides, the security protocol of the assembly was changed, introducing several curbs.
 
 Initial probe led Central intelligence sleuths to investigate if a sleeper cell of al Qaeda in Indian subcontinent (AQIS) was involved.
 
 “Around 100-150 gm can roughly blow up an area around a size of sedan,” an officer said. Several cells of AQIS - one was busted last year - are active in Sambhal and other areas of UP.
 
 Security analysts said that the message behind placing PETN in a highly secure area was alarming. “It has been proved that PETN can be planted inside the heavily guarded assembly," said former  . Top cops said this was the first time PETN was found in the state.
 
 “Evidence collection is on in the main hall and surrounding areas. Statements of people present in the assembly, staff members will be recorded and CCTV footage would be examined,” said IG (ATS) Asim Arun. NIA DIG Prashant Kumar was also participating in the exercise.
 
 Intelligence agencies were busy preparing a list of people who entered the main hall and spent time around the spot where packet was discovered.
 
 ADG Abhay Prasad said, “Nobody who accessed the main hall before the packet was discovered (on the night of July 11) can be given a clean chit without concluding the probe."
 
