HYDERABAD: Amid   being followed by  , the   on Monday directed scores of such hospitals in Hyderabad, the states of Telangana and AP, as well as the   (MCI) to respond to contentions raised in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that sought government regulation over the way the private hospitals are being run.

 A division bench comprising   was hearing a PIL filed by journalist Narender from Kazipet of Warangal. The petitioner sought specific action against private hospitals indulging in unethical practices. He made Global Hospitals, Care Hospitals, Apollo Hospitals as well as a few doctors facing cases of unethical medical practices as respondents to the case.
 
 The bench verified whether the notices it gave them in the earlier hearing were served or not. A battery of lawyers then stood up and told the court that they were representing those entities and individuals.
 
 Petitioner's counsel N S Arjun Kumar informed the bench that after the filing of the PIL, the Telangana State Medical Council has taken action against six doctors, including the infamous height surgery orthopaedic surgeon Dr Chandra Bhushan, who is a respondent in this case, for indulging in unethical practices. The orthopaedic surgeon of Global Hospitals had performed the height increasing surgery on software professional Nikhil Reddy and was suspended by the State Medical Council for two years. Whiel Kumar said this was a step forward, the issue of greater governmental regulation of private health sector to prevent tragedies arising out of unscrupulous profit motives remains to be addressed.
 
 The petitioner also highlighted a scam related to Central Government Health Scheme funds being misappropriated by various corporate hospitals. Despite a CBI investigation and clear findings on the guilty , no action has been taken against the guilty hospitals, he said. Telangana and AP governments too have not taken action against hospitals involved in Aarogyasri funds scam, the petitioner said.
 
 Contending the governments were failing in strengthening public health institutions, the petitioner sought the intervention of the court. He cited the instance of NIMS hospital built on over 100 acres in Bibinagar, on the outskirts of Hyderabad, that has been lying unused for the last eight years.
 
 The bench directed private hospitals and the state governments to file counter affidavits within three weeks and adjourned the matter to February 13.
 
