GUWAHATI: Even as the state is set to observe   on April 7,   is endangering lives of hundreds oblivious to the   they are breathing in from vehicles. 

 The first phase data on 'Urban black carbon emission-its global impact and local mitigation' was tabulated recently. The analysis revealed that Lachit Nagar, a prime area, itself emitted 111.295 micrograms per cubic meters of 2.5 particulate matter in winter.
 
 The seasonal emission study, being carried out jointly by the department of science and technology in collaboration with the civil engineering department of IIT-G over a period of one year, is focusing on places like Bamunimaidam, Kamakhya Gate, Athgaon, AT Road, Lachit Nagar, Lokhara and Khanapara.
 
 Experts said the emission figure is many times higher than the  's permissible limit of PM 2.5 which is 10 micrograms per cubic meters annual mean and 25 micrograms per cubic meters 24 hour mean.
 
 "The data from Lachit Nagar shows the situation is alarming and that the figure of 111.295 is above the permissible limit. People's health is in danger. The main objective of this study is to observe the flow of PM 2.5 particles, black carbon biomass and black carbon fossil fuel during different seasons. After one year we will get the real picture," said Sharad Gokhale, professor of environmental engineering, department of civil engineering, IIT-G.
 
 As of now, data only from Lachit Nagar has been processed as pollution inputs from other locations are being processed. PM 2.5 is light and floats in the air longer and has the ability to travel long distances. It can travel deep into human lungs. In the long run, it may cause cancer and serious respiratory problems.
 
 The Lachit Nagar data also revealed PM 2.5 pollutant concentration during post-monsoon was 23.65 and during Diwali it was 214.37 micrograms per cubic meters respectively.
 
 Black carbon biomass emissions during the last post monsoon, Diwali and winter were 1.72, 3.99 and 3.46 micrograms per cubic meters respectively. 
 
 
