MADURAI: Police stations in the district are quietly but surely undergoing a makeover in a matter of a few weeks. Earlier, those who visited the station with a complaint would have had a tough time finding out who to approach first. Drafting a complaint or petition itself would have been another uphill task. Gone are those days with help desks manned by trained police personnel now bridging a big gap in service delivery at the stations. 

 Those visiting the stations with a complaint can not only file it with ease but also follow it up now. Both the city as well as rural police had recently provided training to a set of police personnel in welcoming, listening to and helping petitioners visiting stations. While the system has been in place since January 1, complainants say it has brought considerable change to the station. Apart from the initiative, the city police have also   for the complainants in all stations.
 
 Says  , a petitioner, "Before I could enter the station, help came calling. The policewoman helped me write a complaint. She also ushered me to the police officer concerned to talk about my complaint," she said. A complainant from the city called it a good initiative which would help the visitors. But the real challenge was in making sure the initiative served its purpose in the long run. 
 
 P Ravi, inspector of Tirumangalam town police station, one of the busiest stations in the district, said the facility had turned very useful for the public. Those entering the station now were getting end-to-end guidance. It helped them get information without hassles.
 
 T Revathi, a grade one police constable from the station, said that four personnel from the station including herself had undergone training. They provide all help starting from filing a complaint, approaching the officer concerned and following it up till the issue is resolved. 
 
  superintendent of police   said that help desks had been put in place in all the 40 stations. Two police personnel are in place in 16 busy police stations to help complainants round-the-clock.
 
  "The help desk's activity is monitored twice every day. I get information on the number of petitions received, actions taken and the follow-up," he said.
 
