NEW DELHI: BJP has fulfilled what PM   had promised while campaigning. 

 Even as the party gained three-fourths majority on its own, it has accommodated winning allies in the state ministry like   Rajbhar, president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), and  , an Apna Dal MLA from Jahanabad.
 
 At a rally in Mau, Modi had pledged berths to allies in the state cabinet, evoking applause from the crowd as Rajbhar’s elevation as a minister, in case BJP won, was seen as a foregone conclusion.
 
 BJP had allied with only two parties — Apna Dal and SBSP, which were allotted 20 seats. Rajbhar’s party won four and Apna Dal nine. This is SBSP’s first victory in assembly polls and its president as a cabinet minister will consolidate the non-Yadav OBC vote-bank, which played a vital role in BJP’s landslide win. 
 
 Apna Dal chief   is already a central minister. The saffron party has also been careful about the factors which contributed to its overwhelming victory. Party chief Amit Shah’s social engineering is also reflected in the ministry formation. 
 
 There are seven Thakurs, including CM  , eight Brahmins, 17 OBCs and MBCs in the ministry. Seven Dalit and eight Vaishya ministers are also a strong message that the party will continue striving for Dalit votes, which has been a focus area for the BJP brass and RSS.
 
 Importance to Vaishya MLAs is aimed at retaining core voters even while BJP looks to add more sections. Adityanath’s elevation as CM is a strong Hindutva message. As is a cabinet berth for Suresh Rana, an accused in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Rana is popular in the western region and was a crowdpuller during the polls. Four women — Gulabo Devi, Archana Pandey, Rita Bahuguna Joshi and Swati Singh — have made it to the ministry. 
 
 BJP had given 43 tickets to women of which 32 won. Swati Singh’s journey has been dramatic as she was a housewife a few months ago and jumped into the political battlefield when her husband Dayashankar Singh was jailed for abusive remarks against BSP supremo Mayawati. Swati’s aggressive stance against BSP was seen as the turning point in the BJP strategy as she united upper castes and turned the public mood in BJP’s favour.
 
