It has been almost six days since the government rolled out its much anticipated Goods and Services Tax (GST). With the motive of 'one nation, one tax,'   has also spawned a lot of queries. People are talking about it, they want to know about it, but there are only a few who are able to answer questions related to it. While restaurants and grocery shops may have started billing according to the new GST regime, it is not a smooth ride for many markets in the city, including  .

  The hub of the IT hardware business in Delhi seems to have lost its buzz after GST came into effect. While some traders are yet to understand the revised taxes, others still do not have a new invoice format for bills. 
 
  A visit to the market revealed that the usually-crowded lanes are empty, and traders are strictly following the ‘only cash accepted’ rule. Some traders were ready to accept credit/debit cards, but that option also came with a rider - ‘2% charge extra lagega card pe, karni hai toh karlo payment’. "I preferred going to the ATM to get cash, than paying 2% extra to the shopkeeper," said AK Ahuja, who had come to the market to buy a printer.
 
 
 We walked inside the first shop in   looking to buy a monitor with a screen bigger than 17 inches. He replied, "GST mein uspe 28% tax hai. Usse chhota loge toh 18%.” When we insisted on a monitor exceeding 17 inches, the shopkeeper, Rohit, told us, “We do not have the invoice to give you the new bill. Humara registration number aa gaya hai. But we are awaiting our bills, which will be printed by next week. I can give you a bill dated June 30, which will also save you money. It will not come under the new GST slab. Sirf aap nahi, sab log aisa hi kar rahe hain."
 
 
  
  The empty lanes of the usually-crowded Nehru Place market after the GST rollout
 
 
  At another nearby shop selling printers, the shopkeeper, without wishing to be named, claimed that he had got new stock after GST, but was selling items with bills with older dates. He said, "The market is only running on cash after the announcement of GST. Only 10% of our customers are ready to pay the new tax. The rest are only looking for ways to evade the tax. They either question us about GST or ask if they can still get a printer at the old price. The printers are divided into two slabs now – the ordinary ones have 18 % tax on them, and the multifunctional ones have 28%. But we are selling all printers at the earlier tax rate, which was close to 18%. Mostly, customers ko June ka bill chahiye, GST ka naya bill koi nahi lena chahta. Iski wajah se footfall bhi kharab ho gaya hai. Jahan pehle paer rakhne ki jagah nahi hoti thi, wahan ab aadhe din kaam hi nahi hota."
 
  
  
 
  
 While some shopkeepers admitted that they were giving bills from the previous month to evade the new tax, others put the blame on their customers. Raj, a hardware shopkeeper, told us, "We have the invoice of the new format of the bill, but when we ask our customers if we should do the billing in the new format, they ask us for an alternative. Tab hum bata dete hain ki genuine par purana bill lelo. Waise hi GST ke baad logon ka aana 60% kam ho gaya hai, toh jo aa rahe hain woh toh GST se bachna hi chahte hain."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Javed, another shopkeeper, added, "Most traders here do not have the option of giving a genuine bill, so how can we expect them to bring GST into their system? People are ready to give cash because the traders and shopkeepers do not have clarity on the tax on credit and debit cards. Logon ko bass stock nikaalna hai, naya peechhe se aa nahi raha kyunki stock bhi tab layenge na jab humein clarity hogi ki log lenge ya nahi. Tab tak aisa hi chalega."
 
  
  
 
