Visakhapatnam: The state government is planning to bifurcate some of the 13 districts once the Centre green-lights the delimitation of assembly constituencies.

 With the delimitation of assembly constituencies in the state virtually finalised with the report submitted by former advocate general Mukul Rohatgi to the Centre last month, the AP government is now focusing on bifurcation of districts. However, the bifurcation is unlikely to be done on a grand scale like the way Telangana did with the creation of 21 new districts.
 
 The number of assembly constituencies post delimitation would be a deciding factor for bifurcation of districts. AP could go for two to three new districts by splitting up a big district like East Godavari into two for administrative convenience.
 
 After learning that the report was submitted by the advocate general, chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu told his party leaders that the delimitation of the assembly constituencies is likely to be completed within six months and the seats would go up to 225 from 175.
 
 “The discussion on district division came up in the first year of the TDP government as AP got 13 districts after bifurcation of the state. Somehow, the division of districts did not materialise and in the meantime, Telangana created new districts. Now, the delimitation of assembly constituencies is laying the ground for the division of districts,” a senior minister in CM Naidu’s cabinet told TOI.
 
 The minister added that though no exercise was initiated till now in this regard, the government has an outline for the division.
 
 The big districts in terms of constituencies like East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, West Godavari and also some part of Visakhapatnam may be bifurcated, sources said.
 
 The bifurcation of East Godavari looks to be a certainty as the district has seven revenue divisions with a population of around 60 lakh spread over 1,069 gram panchayats under 64 mandals. The merger of five mandals from Telangana has added to the district’s size.
 
 “The tribal areas of East Godavari and Visakhapatnam may be merged to form a new district, besides dividing East Godavari into two more parts,” a senior revenue official of East Godavari district told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 
