KOLKATA: Startled out of her sleep by wailing ambulances early on Tuesday, Manchester resident   woke up to a nightmare of a day as she watched police vehicles rushing past her home. They were hurtling down the roads that had been cordoned off. The 77-year-old had never seen the streets so empty. 

 “We live in a quiet neighbourhood, and I kept wondering what had happened. Shortly, my neighbours called up to tell me there had been a terror attack at the  . My husband and I stationed ourselves near the window and watched. It seemed an emergency had been declared, with none on the roads, except for the police. I have never been so scared in the 57 years that I have been living in the UK,” De said.
 
 Former Harrow mayor   had just switched on the television at his London home to catch the news on election campaign only to be greeted with gory images of youngsters, soaked in blood, running for cover following the blast at Manchester Arena. Choudhury, a Labour party member, rushed to call his friends and acquaintances at Manchester. “The news and images made me numb. Fortunately, all the people I know are safe but the terror strike has left them shaken. They are not sure if they should step out of their homes. I advised them to stay put,” said Choudhury, a resident of London for more than five decades.
 
 Ananya Majumdar, a London resident for three decades, has her roots in Kolkata. As the blast news broke out, the former IT employee was flooded with calls from worried family and relatives back home. “They were scared and I had to tell them that the blast had occurred far away in Manchester. But it was terrible. It’s appalling that they targeted young children and teenagers, who had gone to attend the concert. They wanted to have a nice evening, watching their favourite star, and it ended so terribly. When is it all going to end?” 
 
 This attack refreshed Choudhury’s memory of the London blast back in 2005. “It brought back the images of that horrific day, when we experienced terrorism for the first time in our backyard. The attack made us feel so vulnerable and insecure. We have been living with that scar ever since. Now, the Manchester blast proves that none is safe anywhere in the world. Terror may strike any time,” the septuagenarian added. De agreed: “I feel lucky that both my husband and I are retired. But what about our children? They need to travel and work. Now, we would be scared for them every day. This is not the kind of life we had envisaged when we settled down here in 1960.”
 
 
