Mumbai:   is likely to offer Rs 1,500 crore to acquire home appliances brand   as it looks to ramp up its presence in the household durables space. This could make Crompton Greaves Consumer, which is owned by private equity investors   and  , the preferred choice for the promoters of Kenstar. 

 The Dhoots of   have put Kenstar on the block due to pressure from lenders as the diversified enterprise owes Rs 35,000 crore to them. While Crompton has indicated a preliminary bid, it will make a formal offer only after completing due diligence, which is currently under way. Crompton is valuing Kenstar at around 20 times its operating profit of Rs 75 crore, sources familiar with the matter said.
 
 A source close to the Videocon Group said that no deal has been finalised. When contacted, Crompton Greaves Electricals declined to comment on the story. In May this year, TOI reported that Crompton and Tata group company   were in the fray, while recent media reports said  ,   and  , too, have shown interest for the home-grown brand. Swiss bank   is handling the sale of Kenstar on behalf of Videocon Group.
 
 Kenstar is one of the brands besides Videocon that has been developed and powerfully built by the Dhoot family, who otherwise is known to introduce foreign consumer electronic brands like  ,  ,   and   in India through equity partnerships. Launched in October 1996, Kenstar has a presence in cooling appliances, food processors, water heaters and cooking appliances. Endorsed by Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, Kenstar commands a high market share in certain categories like air coolers.
 
 Crompton Greaves Electricals, which is a spun-off entity from Crompton Greaves, is looking to scale up its household durables portfolio by expanding the product line and through buyouts. The spike in the share price provides the company’s private equity owners comfort to chase inorganic growth. It isn’t clear if the Crompton offer, when it comes, will be an all-cash offer or a cash-cum-share swap. The lenders of Videocon would prefer an all-cash offer, sources said.
 
 The rival bidders which looked at the deal, including private equity major Blackstone, are watching Crompton’s moves.
 
 The potential acquisition of Kenstar will complement Crompton Greaves Electricals in certain categories like water heaters and cooking appliances and at the same time will mark its foray into certain segments like cooling appliances. K S Raman, former president of Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association (CEAMA), said, “Crompton is known in electrical categories like fans where it is a leader, but it is not strong in other home appliances segments where Kenstar enjoys a premium position. The deal, if consummated, will expand Crompton’s portfolio into the main and seasonal household durables space. Another advantage for Crompton will be Kenstar’s large dealer network in the country.”
 
 
