NAGPUR: Vidarbha and Nagpur may get heavy rainfall (64.5mm to 115.5mm) at isolated places for another day on Thursday following which the rainfall will decrease in the region. The rains in last two days in the region have decreased the regional deficiency by another one per cent and brought it down to 23%. Vidarbha has recorded a rainfall of 699.1mm as against a normal of 913.5mm till September 20.

 In past 24 hours Korchi in Gadchiroli district received 60.8mm rainfall and Goregaon in   district received 63.2mm which is the highest rainfall in the region. Nagpur recorded just 12.1mm from 8.30am on Wednesday to 5.30pm the same day. On Tuesday city recorded 7.5mm. On Thursday Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and some parts of Wardha district are likely to receive heavy rainfall.
 
 The regional meteorological centre director A D Thate told TOI that withdrawal of the monsoon was unlikely to start for at least another 5-7 days from Rajasthan which means that the region that the withdrawal from the region will begin only after October 15 which is the normal withdrawal date for the region. “The signs of withdrawal of monsoon include no rains for consecutive five days and onset of anticyclonic winds over the area and reversal of the winds from south westerly to north easterly side.
 
 The low pressure area bringing rainfall to the region now lies over north Odisha and adjoining Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 7.6 above mean sea level. But as this system moves towards Chhattisgarh further the rains will decrease in Vidarbha region.
 
  data shown that Gondia district continues to be the most deficient in rains for the season at 37% deficiency followed by 32% deficiency each in Yavatmal and   district. This is followed by Amravati district which is 30% deficient. Washim and   districts have a deficiency of 27% each. Akola has a deficiency of 20% and Wardha has this figure at 16%. Nagpur and Buldhana are the only two districts in region which are near normal with just 4% and 1% deficiency respectively.
 
 
