Sidharth said, "I've always been extremely outdoorsy and loved playing rugby and football growing up, apart from other sports. In the last few years, I've also indulged in a lot of adventure activities while travelling overseas, including skydiving, deep-water diving and sky walking. I would love to promote them in India extensively too."

 Recently, the most exciting activity I undertook was urban rappelling, which is pretty much unheard of in India.
 
  
  
 An abseil, commonly called a rappel, is a tool which enables a rope to run through it for a controlled descent from a vertical height. Rappelling from mountains and waterfalls is a common adventure sport, and it has now found its way to cities too translating to urban rappelling where you replace nature with skyscrapers or monuments.
 
 "For one of the most extensive stunts in my upcoming action thriller, ' ', I had to jump from the terrace of a 60-storey building in Miami and since, I'm not too scared of heights, I was pretty excited."
 
 "For safety reasons, I had to take a half-day special training to understand the buckle and harness. This helped me perform other stunts in the film better too. I've done 95 per cent of the stunts myself and a double was only used when security was an issue. Real shots always sell best with the audience."
 
 "Training for urban rappelling was not only about the jump but also about body posture, balancing body weight and learning the safest and smoothest landing process. Climbers use this technique when a cliff is too steep and dangerous. Likewise, for a free fall from a tall building. It was a great learning experience."
 
 "For the final shot, the camera followed me to the top of the building, where I had to buckle myself into a harness, then jump, slide down to a window, break it open with a few kicks and finally, enter the building. We were shooting at a live location on a sunny morning and there were cameras everywhere."
 
 "Director-duo,   and  , had a grand plan. Raj was to fly in a chopper from Miami beach to the top of the building as I jumped, taking the best top angle shots. DK was to capture the scale from the action choreographer's point of view. We had countless Hollywood films as reference too."
 
 "This was the biggest action units I've ever worked with. Hollywood's best stunt co-ordinators GA Aguilar (22 Jump Street, Now You See Me), Hugo Bariller (The Hunger Games), Dony Belluscio (Troy), Juan Bofill (Iron Man 3), Scott Burik (The Dark Knight Rises), James Carter (xXx: Return of Xander Cage), who is also part of the Russian arms crew in A Gentleman, Josh Lakatos (Logan), Cyril Raffaelli (The Transporter, The Incredible Hulk) and Giovanni Rodriguez (Bloodline).   action director Parvez Shaikh (Dhoom, Mary Kom, Ra. One) led a large Indian stunt unit with Bobby Gerrits (Housefull 2) and Sergey Nosulenko (Baahubali 2), among others."
 
 "The final scene has some wide-scale, 'never-seen-before in a Bollywood movie- kinda' shots. There's an immense sense of achievement when you've accomplished a sequence like this one!"
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
