MUMBAI: Over 2.92 lakh seats will be up for grabs for students applying for first year junior college ( ) for the upcoming academic year. While the numbers are up by over 13,800, compared to the previous year, those hoping to secure seats in top   can expect fierce competition as the number of seats there have remained unchanged.

 Out of the total seats available, admission to 1.59 lakh seats will be done though the centralized   process. For the 1.33 lakh seats reserved under the in-house, management and minority quotas, registrations will be done online but seats will be filled at the college level.
 
 Out of the total increase in seats this year, about half is due to the inclusion of minimum competency vocational courses (MCVC) in the centralized process this year. There are 6,030 seats in the stream. The rest of the increase can be attributed to the permission granted to new colleges to start on self-financed basis. “The seats added this year are at new colleges. At popular colleges, the in-take capacity is the same. This means that cut-offs and competition at popular colleges will not be eased out. The students have to make an informed choice on the basis of previous year’s cut-offs and their scores,” said B B Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
 Among the three streams, while commerce and science saw an increase in seats,   capacity in arts dropped marginally. “The increase in seats in science is due to the popularity of integrated courses, where classes tie up with junior colleges to prepare students for entrance exams,” said an official. 
 
 Since 2012-13, seats have been up by almost 10%. “Last year, about 56,000 seats were vacant but permission was given to more colleges this year. These seats are unaided and hence expensive. On the other hand, if there are vacancies in the aided section, teachers are declared as surplus. The state should devise a mechanism which will ensure the aided seats are filled up and then the unaided option is given to students. This will benefit teachers and students,” said the official.
 
 The delayed admission process is expected to begin by May 25 after information booklets, which contain the user ID and password for students, is printed.
 
 
