MUMBAI: Dr   (28) is more humiliated than scared to   at the medicine ward of  , where he was slapped by a mob late on Saturday in front of a ward  . He was single-handedly taking care of more than 45 patients, including four critical ones. 

  Dr Tated recalled that the patient whose relatives assaulted him was brought in a critical condition. "Rekha Ghavari (a Chembur resident who eventually died) was breathless and unconscious, and there was fluid build-up in her body. We gave her emergency dialysis and the best possible medicines," he said. The woman had missed out on 12 cycles of dialysis and the resultant complications led to her death. "In those 24 hours, we cared for her more than her family, who took her home against medical advice a few weeks ago," the doctor said. "They sneaked into the ward and assaulted me despite being fully aware of her critical condition." 
 
 Afflicted by polio, Dr Tated, who is from  , had come to Mumbai last May, overcoming his family's reluctance. He even took up a job for four months in his hometown to convince his family that his physical condition was not a hindrance.
 
 He managed to break the news of the attack to his father only on Sunday, over 24 hours after it took place. "The police told me they may hear it from other sources. I was worried my father would ask me to leave everything and come home," he said, speaking from his crammed hostel room on the first floor of Sion Hospital's residential quarters.
 
 Last year, when his father saw the deplorable conditions under which resident doctors had to spend their first few months of the PG course, he immediately wanted him to leave. "Fourteen of us were allocated one 10x10 room, where we could only dump our bags. We mostly slept in the wards," he said. "I was determined to complete the MD degree."
 
 A pharma graduate, Dr Tated took up MBBS only later. He chose medicine over a surgical specialty assuming it would be less physically strenuous and won't entail standing for hours. But the patient load at Sion proved him wrong. "His callipers broke soon due to all the running-around he had to do in the ward," said his roommate and medicine resident Dr Aniket Wadal. "But he never refused any work because of being differently-abled."
 
 The incident has left Dr Tated traumatised, but his resolve to complete his degree is stronger than ever.
 
 
