BALLARI: In a   which ended in tragedy,  , 19, of   was killed allegedly by her parents on March 24. She was a student of   of Hagaribommanahalli in   

 According to sources, Reshma and K Nagaraj, a II PU student and resident of Bharampura of Hiriyur taluk (Chitradurga district), participated in a summer camp last year at Nandi PU College. Both became good friends and stayed in touch. Reshma's parents noticed that she spent a lot of time on the phone and eventually found out about the affair.
 
  Family elders counselled her and convinced her to end the relationship. She promised to stop chatting with Nagaraj. Last m onth, she contacted him and explained her inability to talk to him. She expressed her desire to marry him and Nagaraj reciprocated her feelings. On March 24, Nagaraj went to her house but her family assaulted him. Despite Nagaraj's protestations of eternal love, her parents thrashed him using iron rods and wooden sticks. He was severely injured and Reshma rushed to protect him. 
 
 Reshma was brutally beaten up too and died on the spot. Her shocked parents tried to cover up the crime. They feared that Nagaraj too had died. They shoved his bloody body in a gunny bag and kept it under a tamarind tree of G Kodihalli village limits near Hampasagara. Reshma's parents conducted her last rites hastily, telling relatives she had died of an illness and doctors had advised a quick funeral. 
 
 Residents of G Kodihalli found blood flowing from the gunny bag and informed police. Police rushed Nagaraj to the Hagaribommanahalli Government Hospital, and using his mobile, they contacted his parents. Nagaraj's parents rushed to the hospital and suspected an attempt to murder. But police refused to investigate. 
 
  Nagaraj was shifted to a private hospital but doctors told his parents to take him to Manipal Hospital. On March 31, he died in hospital. Hanumanthappa, a resident of G Kodihalli village, filed an FIR on Nagaraj's body being found. Tambrahalli police did not investigate the case and Mangu Naik, PSI, did not report it to his officers. 
 
  R Chethan,SP, went to Tambrahalli police station to know more about the case. On Thursday, he suspended Mangu Naik for dereliction of duty. "The case is being probed and we have filed one case of murder. We're working on Nagaraj's mobile contacts and will interrogate more people.We can't say it's a case of honour killing," he said. 
 
 
