PUNE: Two persons posing as policemen robbed Rs 25 lakh from two   hired by the  , but they ran out of luck within a few moments because they met with an   while fleeing on their bike.

 The helmetless duo’s   with a tempo on Manchar-Belha road near Manchar on Tuesday afternoon. They suffered serious head injuries and are recuperating in a hospital. Police have recovered the robbed Rs25 lakh from the accident spot, about 55km from here.
 
 Inspector Sunil Godse of the Manchar police station said the injured duo — Prakash Laxman Pawar (33) of Hadapsar and Ajay Janardhan Gaikwad (24) of Dhanorie — had been booked. “Pawar is a casual labourer, while Gaikwad is an auto mechanic,” he said.
 
 “Both have been hospitalized at Manchar, They have suffered serious head injuries in the accident and are unable to speak now. The police will question them when they are medically fit,” Godse said.
 
 The inspector said the two suspects were wearing police uniforms when they met with the accident, about 4-5km away from the spot they had robbed the duo transporting cash of the State Bank of India. “It is not yet known how they received a tip-off about the agency’s employees transporting cash on a motorcycle and how they procured the police uniforms,” he said.
 
 One of the employees of the agency the State Bank of India hired for transporting cash — Ambegaon resident Vijay Shivaji Dhere (23) — lodged a complaint with the Manchar police. He stated that he and his colleague — Sushant Wagh — were going to the bank’s ATM at Shiroli village near Belha on their motorcycle with a bag containing the cash taken from the Manchar branch. The bag contained new notes of Rs100, Rs500 and Rs2,000.
 
 They were crossing a forest area at Ganjavewadi village when the two accused overtook them on a motorcycle. “The duo talked as if they were cops and quizzed the agent’s employees about the bag and its contents. The duo then demanded the driving licence of Dhere. The two employees of the agency even showed the duo their identity cards and other documents,” Godse said.
 
 The two suspects then issued threats of dire consequences, stating “tumhi doghe kale krutya kartat ani chuki cha padhatini cash gheun jatat (you both are into shady deals and carrying the cash in an inappropriate way)”, Godse said. The accused then abused the bank employees and put a jammer to their motorcycle, claiming that they were seizing it on the spot.
 
 The accused then asked the agency’s employees to go to the police station, snatched the bag containing the cash and fled on their motorcycle. “After the  , the complainants rushed to a police outpost to report the incident,” Godse said.
 
 A police team rushed to the spot. But before the cops could start investigations, they received information that two persons wearing khaki uniforms had collided head-on with a tempo on the road and were lying unconscious. The police team reached the accident spot and took them to a hospital. The bag containing cash was found at the accident spot.
 
 Godse said it was suspected that the two were driving their motorcycle at a high speed to avoid police chase. “While driving rashly, they collided head-on with the tempo,” he added.
 
 The farmer driving the tempo also suffered injuries.
 
