Nagpur: Energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule may be publicly talking about providing justice to farmers but his close aides apparently have different ideas about it. A three-member committee headed by MSEB Holding Company director Vishwas Pathak had exposed how MSEDCL had issued inflated bills to farmers.  However, when the report was submitted to the minister on Friday, Pathak refused to sign it as it would land the discom in trouble. The two other members of the committee—consumer activists Pratap Hogade and Ashish Chandarana—have however, signed it.  When contacted, Pathak, however, claimed that the report had not been submitted and would be done so following a final meeting after consensus had been achieved. The committee had been formed two years ago and was supposed to submit its report by December 2015 but due to lack of cooperation from government, the report got delayed.  Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Powai, had done field studies for the committee. It had studied the actual power consumption by farmers supplied by various MSEDCL feeders. The IIT experts came to a conclusion that MSEDCL had grossly overestimated the consumption. These findings were submitted to the committee. The report is expected to land MSEDCL in trouble. According to the committee report, 32 lakh out of the total 40 lakh agricultural consumers have been overbilled to the extent of Rs6,000 crore. MSEDCL has also illegally obtained subsidy worth crores from state government by indulging in overbilling. If the report is accepted, MSEDCL will have to revise the bills of lakhs of farmers and return the subsidy to state government. This will impose a burden of at least Rs10,000 crore on the discom, which is already in deep financial trouble. The state government would have no option but to bail out the company. However, if the report is accepted, it will improve the financial health of MSEDCL in the long run. Presently, MSEDCL passes off power theft as farm power consumption. When this fact is accepted by the government, MSEDCL will have to actually crack down on power theft and recover arrears from defaulters. Many top officials of MSEDCL will land in trouble for presiding over a systematic loot of farmers.