Kolkata: A 121-year-old heritage building, that once housed the office of the Edinburgh-based Standard Life Assurance Company, will now host the state’s youngest commission. Standard Life Assurance Building, better known as the Insurance Standard Building, is getting ready to accommodate its new occupant, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC). 

 TOI visited this historical building on Thursday on 32 BBG Bag, a day after the commission announced its address. The ground floor and mezzanine have been allocated to the commission. An army of masons, painters, carpenters, and electricians are working on full swing to renovate the space. 
 
 “The commission’s office is getting ready. We will start taking up grievance cases as soon as the work is complete,” Anil Verma, vice-chairman of WBCERC, had said on Wednesday after panel’s maiden meeting.
 
 By Thursday, a signboard bearing the commission’s name was put up at the entrance of the building. Around 100 labourers are on the job. “The office is centrally located and hence easily accessible. Even as we want to start taking working soon, it will depend on when the setup and the office is ready,” said a member of the commission.
 
 The floors and the walls are being scrapped of the layers of dust as the place was unused for years. An open space, that would measure around 4000sq ft on the ground floor that also has three rooms, will have new floorings and a fresh coat of paint. The mezzanine floor too is being readied in the same way to welcome its occupants. 
 
 “We started working here from March first week. Now we have been told to work on a war-footing to get the place ready by this month-end. So we are working day and night for the past four days,” said a mason. 
 
 The ground floor was used as the office of the Kolkata Municipal Water Sanitation Authority years ago, But abandoned and neglected for decades, the state PWD took up a facelift project in 2014 when the façade of the building was repaired and restored. 
 
 The second floor of the three-storeyed building was the first to get renovated and is being occupied by the Reserve Battalion of the Kolkata Police for around six months now. The first floor used to be the address of directorate of the youth services. 
 
 “With the ground floor lying in dust and the first floor locked up, the building looked hollow. Suddenly, there is a flurry of activities around. It will be nice to have a the youngest commission as a co-occupant,” said a Reserve Battalion cop who works from the second floor. 
 
 
