BHOPAL: The tussle between sports and youth affairs minister   and acting district   of Shivpuri,   took an ugly turn on Friday when the minister inaugurated three road projects in Shivpuri for which district administration denied official permission.

 Raje had sought official permission for inauguration of the projects a week in advance, but could not get approval from the acting collector.
 
 Relations between minister Raje and acting collector Maravya turned sour since January 14, the day she took over the charge of the office after district collector O P Shrivastava left for a 45-day training. On the very first day, Raje had rebuked her for administrative lapses. Later, Maravya never turned up to discuss issues with her. Raje had also cancelled her Shivpuri visit twice to avoid a confrontation with Maravya.
 
 Recently, when Gagan Saxena personal assistant to Raje, approached the acting collector to get an approval for the inauguration of Craft Road and three roads projects in Shivpuri, she turned down the request, saying, “The projects need to be examined and feasibility is also to be ensured. Before this administration cannot approve inauguration of the project.”
 
 Enraged by the refusal, Raje complained to the chief secretary and the chief minister.
 
 On Friday morning, the minister reached the construction site and inaugurated all the three road projects without waiting for the administration’s nod.
 
 ``We have been requesting the district administration nod. It seems they were least bothered about the public inconvenience.
 
 Both Raje and Maravya have a record of aggressive temperament. While Raje had run into a tiff with a senior bureaucrat while she was industry minister, Maravya after taking over as acting collector, had a tiff with local journalists and public.
 
 The recent incident occurred three days before the arrival of Shivpuri collector Shrivastava, who is completing his training on February 27. This could give a sigh of relief to Raje, said sources in the administration.
 
 Meanwhile,, the newly election leader of opposition (LoP) in MP Assembly, Ajay Singh in a letter to Raje supported her decision to continue with development works undertaken in Shivpuri district. Singh, who is yet to take charge of LoP in assembly after being appointed on Thursday, expressed surprise over the stubborn attitude of acting collector saying bureaucracy should not put obstacles in public welfare programmes.
 
 “I am surprised how a bureaucrat can misbehave with a cabinet minister like Raje that she forgets her duty and a fails to maintain a dignified attitude towards a public representative. We will bring this issue before the Speaker of the state assembly for appropriate action'', said Singh. 
 
 
