MOTIHARI: The agitating United Democratic Madhes Front (UDMF) members on Tuesday boycotted the Nepal parliament sitting. They shouted slogans against the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (MC) and the main opposition Communist Party of Nepal (UML) led by K P Sharma Oli.   The UDMF members have been demanding amendment to the constitution for reorganization of the provinces for the welfare of the poor and marginalized citizens.    As soon as Speaker Onsari Ghatri Magar announced the commencement of the parliament sitting, the lawmakers of UDMF, the alliance of seven Madhes-centric parties, stood up from their respective seats and started shouting slogans.    Senior Sadbhawana Party leader and parliamentarian Laxama Lal Karna accused the government of being insensitive towards the poor and marginalized people of the country. He condemned the police firing at Saptari in which more than five UDMF cadres were killed a fortnight back. He also accused the government and the main opposition party of ignoring the constitutional amendments. “The UDMF and people of Madhes region will not accept the local election until the constitution is amended,” Karan told newsmen in Nepal.    In its meeting on Tuesday, the Nepali Congress (NC) resolved to take local election and constitutional amendment process simultaneously. Senior NC leader Ram Chandra Paudel told TOI that conducive environment should be created for amendment to the constitution and conducting local election.    According to police control room at Kathmandu, some UDMF cadres on Tuesday torched a bus carrying CPN-UML members at Udharapur in Nepalgunj district. However, no one was injured in the incident. The UDMF cadres and CPN-UML members are at loggerheads because the latter is opposed to constitutional amendment.    According to Nepal government sources, PM Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Monday night sought CPN-UML chairman K P S Oli’s help to get the constitution amendment bill endorsed in parliament. He urged Oli to support to the amendments, saying the government would not postpone local election at any cost.