 I am 27-year-old married woman and though there's nothing wrong in my marriage, I am madly in love with a TV star and at times fantasise about him while making love to my husband. That's not all, I also feel I am cheating on my husband by this obsession of mine. How do I deal with these two loves in my life? - By Anonymous

 
  Your fascination with the TV star is suggestive of a fantasy relationship that psychologists call ‘Parasocial relationships’. These are one-sided relationships, where the fan extends emotional energy, interest and time, whereas the celebrity is completely unaware of their existence. This fascination starts out as revering the grandiosity and omnipotence of the ‘character’ played by the TV Star. And slowly moves to idolisation of the actor/celebrity playing that part. 
 
 When it goes from being a healthy admiration to something more, as is the case with you – it leaves you wondering if this fantasy can be infidelity. The Normal Bar data (one of the most extensive research conducted) shows virtually no connection between fantasies of infidelity and happiness in the core relationship. Temptation happens despite being happy with your partner.
 
 Contrary to popular beliefs, it is completely natural for individuals to fantasize about other people than their partners, even if they are in a committed relationship and in love with their partner. From an evolutionary perspective - lust is the key to our species’ survival, as it is for most animals. For example, Geese pair only mate once during a lifetime; if one partner dies, the bereft partner stays unmatched until death. This hinders the repopulation of the species. Humans, to avoid extinction do not stay limited to one partner. However, in order to remain faithful to the current partner, most restrict it to looking without touching. The fantasy of infidelity, keeps active the possibilities of alternative partners in the event of death or divorce. 
 
 But perhaps this scenario makes most feel uncomfortable. The dilemma is you love your partner deeply and feel that the solid trust between you would be shaken by even the mental indulgence of an infidelity fantasy. The issue is not whether it’s right or wrong. It is about first investigating what the purpose of this fantasy may be. Often fantasies, like dreams, are revelatory of our deeper psychological wishes. And second bringing healthy boundaries to these obsessions, which if allowed to perpetuate may lead to emotional and relational disturbances in the future.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
