MUMBAI: A fleet of cars that beer mogul   once owned, including some vintages and classics, went under the auctioneer’s hammer on Wednesday, attracting frenzied bidding from enthusiasts.
 
  The cars ranged from the   convertible to the   204 Phantom and Italian classics Alfa Romeo and Maserati. Several of the vehicles carried an attractive reserve price and saw aggressive bids at the e-auction conducted by Delhibased Quippo Auctions.
  
  Aperson who keeps a close tab on vintage cars and their owners said Mallya owned more than 150 cars at one time, through his various companies.
  
  On Wednesday, the auction house put 40-odd cars on sale and most found takers. The total proceeds from the sale weren’t known.
  
  The money, though, won’t go to the businessman who fled India in March last year after being chased by banks for loan repayments, or the lenders which are trying to recover thousands of crores that they say he owed them.
  
  These cars now belong to United Spirits, the Indian subsidiary of UK liquor major Diageo.
  
  Quite evidently, the new owners of United Spirits aren’t fond of the expensive hobbies of Mallya, the former promoter of the company who had a fascination for vintage and fast cars, as well as race horses.
  
  At the auction, enthusiasts ratcheted up the bid price several times over for select cars.
  
  A bidder that ET spoke to said his plan was to refurbish the car and, after retirement, take it on a global road trip. But in the end, he didn’t buy any.
  
  United Spirits confirmed the auction. “This is in line with our earlier announcement that we would be monetising non-core assets,” said a spokesperson.
  
  A Quippo Auctions executive said the response to the e-auction “was good”. The auction started at 4 pm and saw some hectic bidding, driving up the final price on some cars to eight to ten times the reserve price. The bids went on for several rounds, as some bidders raised bids steadily by Rs 10,000, in every round, as they were outbid by equally earnest rivals.
  
  The intensity of the bidding could be gauged by the way the price for the Rolls-Royce 204 Phantom went along. The reserve price of the super luxury car was fixed at Rs 12 lakh, but it went for Rs 52 lakh. The money will accrue to United Spirits.
  
  
  Perhaps, banks that have failed so far to find any takers for Mallya’s real estate could borrow the idea from this auction of keeping the reserve price low, a person tracking the auction process said.
  
  High reserve prices were blamed for keeping buyers away from the   in Goa and the Kingfisher House in Mumbai that the banks had put on auction.
  
  A participant in Wednesday’s auction, who did not want to be named, said the vintage cars were a steal at very attractive base price, “but as bidding progressed, went way beyond realistic levels”.
  
  Bidders at the auction had to deposit a demand draft for a minimum amount, in favour of United Spirits, before bidding commenced.
  
  Some of the cars were in a real bad shape, the person said. He had inspected the cars put up for sale before bidding for a few select ones.
  
  These vehicles were displayed in a central Mumbai showroom, which originally belonged to Shaw Wallace, a spirits maker acquired by Mallya during his heydays in 2005.
  
  The Porsche Boxster finally changed hands after a bidder raised his bid to Rs 10 lakh.
  
  Porsche carried a reserve price of Rs 8 lakh and a bidder said the car will need heavy repairs to make it roadworthy again. The Mercedes G-Wagen that carried a reserve price of Rs 2 lakh was bid up to Rs 13.10 lakh while the Maserati got Rs 41 lakh, after starting at Rs 10 lakh. 
