CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam on Friday said an ordinance will be promulgated in two days to enable the conduct  . Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, the chief minister said the bull-taming sport would be held in two days and requested people to call off their 
  .

 “A draft ordinance is ready and has been forwarded to the Home ministry today morning. It has to get the nod of President with the recommendation of the Centre,” Panneerselvam said. He has directed the government officers to stay and do the necessary work.
 
 The chief minister said he extended his stay on Thursday after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and consulted legal experts on making amendments to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 at the state level to enable the conduct of 
  .
 
 “On the basis of President’s order, the   will promulgate an ordinance,” Panneerselvam said, requesting the agitators to give up their protests.
 
 With Modi assuring that the 
  , Panneerselvam hoped the Centre’s support to the state’s move.
 
 The chief minister’s promise and request didn’t have any effect on the protesters on Marina Beach in Chennai and other parts of the state, who refused to give up their agitation. They sought a permanent solution to the 
  . 
 
 Meanwhile, a dawn-to-dusk bandh called by various trade unions and organisations demanding the conduct of jallikattu evoked good response. Most schools declared a holiday due to "transportation issue."
 
 Traffic on arterial roads in Chennai were skeletal and MTC buses were operated minimally. Many transport Union members were seen protesting and raising slogans against Centre and state governments. Hotels were more or less closed but some small roadside eateries were doing rotating business as the hotels were closed.
 
 Petrol pumps were open but hardly any vehicle to fill fuel as most of the autos, call taxies are off the road.
 
 
  in several parts of the state, including Arakkonam railway station.
 
 Third night on Marina 
 
 The protesters spent one more night on Marina Beach. It was their third night on the beach since Tuesday. 
 
 The youngsters huddled around campfires and hugged one another to keep themselves warm. 
 
 They broke into cheer at dawn. They picked up garbage and prepared themselves for a long day of protest. 
 
