MONACO: There is a chill in the air, the Mediterranean waters are choppy and the sky above is a dull shade of grey — not the picture of sun, beach and frolic that the Principality of Monte Carlo projects in the month of May during the annual fest of  . It’s February and Monaco is hosting the   Gala night on Tuesday, which also happens to be Valentine’s Day.

 One man who had a special love affair with Monaco and who is also a resident of this glorious city-state in the heart of French Riviera is  . The current Formula 1 world champion won a hat-trick of Monaco GPs between 2013 and 2015.
 
 There is an aura around this street circuit in the   calendar. No wonder, the legend   loved it more than any race — having won here no less than four times.
 
 “Monaco is the most legendary track in the F1 calendar…they have been hosting races here for the last 100 years I believe. It is also the most difficult race for any any driver because you can’t afford to make any mistakes on a street circuit like this. It is also the most glamorous race as well and a great spectacle. On top of that, it is my home race and I loved winning here,” Rosberg, who has been nominated for the Laureus Breakthrough of the Year award with the likes of Olympic world-record breakers   and   and the Iceland football team, said here on Monday.
 
 Nothing has come easy for Rosberg in his F1 career. Although he drove the best car on the F1 grid with the Mercedes team, he had been left to gather the spoils behind his famous teammate Lewis Hamilton. A decade after entering the sport, he became a world champion like his father   but promptly bid adieu to the sport.
 
 “It is thanks to those difficult and heartbreaking moments in the last three years that I am sitting here in front of you as a world champion. I managed to find motivation within me in the last year that I didn’t know existed,” the 31-year-old said.
 
 This time around, the world will have more to look forward to apart from cars zooming around the streets of Monaco. The contest for the World Sportsman of the Year award will pit some of the best athletes in the world led by 2016 Rio Olympics heroes Usain Bolt (a three-time Laureus winner), 5,000m and 10,000m Olympic champion Mo Farah and current world No. 1 tennis player Andy Murray. The list also includes the likes of Euro 2016 winner Cristiano Ronaldo and NBA stars Stephen Curry and LeBron James.
 
 World Sportswoman of the Year award nominees include American gymnast Simone Biles, swimmer Katie Ledecky and runner Allyson Felix and German tennis star Angelique Kerber, who finished as the top player in the world in 2016.
 
 The Comeback of the Year award has some fairytale stories with the likes of swimmer Michael Phelps leading the nominations followed by another tennis star, Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro.
 
 
