AMARAVATI: Chief minister   on Friday exhorted a huge gathering to vote BJP in for all round development of Amravati Municipal Corporation. Addressing an election rally at  , Fadnavis said, “I have in my eyes the dream of Amravati’s development. I have a strong team with me to realize it. It is a golden chance you should not let go.”

 “Casting your vote is like depositing your money in a bank. When you invest your vote for a person or a party, you expect good returns in the form of development. While Rahul bank, Sharad-Ajit bank and   bank have gone bankrupt today, Modi bank is the only one that assures you five times interest in the form of development in five years on every single vote. A rare opportunity now beckons you. Give BJP full majority and we will reciprocate with full development of  ,” Fadnavis said.
 
 The chief minister said the Congress had failed to address the problem of urbanization. “While Congress saw urbanization as a curse, PM Modi accepted it as a reality, saw in it an opportunity and took positive steps to develop cities. We will make Amravati too a smart city,” Fadnavis said.
 
 Fadnavis assured funds for the completion of underground drainage scheme, garbage management, industrial development, airport development, roads and flyovers, integrated textile park and garment industry, and housing for poor in Amravati. “Smart city means smart arrangements and we are committed to develop Amravati as a worthy capital of western Vidarbha through various schemes,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis said that through Amrit scheme, water supply system is being upgraded to ensure equitable water distribution. He instructed local BJP leaders to design the scheme with smart technological elements. He also called for treating sewage water and reusing it for industry and electricity generation. “It will fetch good revenue,” he said.
 
 “The face of Amravati is changing as we are pouring money into it. If you give us absolute power, we will make every effort to develop it as a better revenue division than any other in the state,” Fadnavis said.
 
 Guardian Minister Pravin Pote, MLA and BJP AMC election chief Dr Sunil Deshmukh, BJP city and district unit presidents Jayant Dehankar and Dinesh Suryavanshi, BJP state spokesman Shivrai Kulkarni, Kiran Paturkar, and Milind Chimote were present.
 
 BJP candidate Rita Sunil Padole, who became the first candidate to get elected unopposed in AMC’s history from prabhag 7, was also felicitated by Fadnavis.
 
