NEW DELHI: The BJP's 
  in India is not very good news for Beijing, a state-run Chinese news outlet wrote today.

 Global Times, the Chinese Communist Party's news outlet that focuses on foreign affairs, said today in an article that a resurgent BJP very likely means "more difficulties in making compromises" with New Delhi in international spats.
 
 
 
 
 PM  's "hard-line attitude" domestically and internationally will only harden, said Global Times. The article also cited other news sources as concluding that the 2019 national polls will be won by the BJP.
 
 "In the international arena, he (PM Modi) changed India's previous attitude of trying never to offend anyone and started to take a clear stance in controversies among other nations to maximize its own interests… If Modi wins the next election, India's current firm and tough manner is bound to continue…, it will likely mean more difficulties in making compromises in rows with other countries," the Global Times article today said.
 
 As an example, the Chinese Communist Party-run outlet cited PM Modi celebrating Diwali with Indian soldiers at the  .
 
 "Take the 
  . No silver lining has yet emerged and Modi demonstrated his firm stance over the issue by celebrating Diwali, India's biggest holiday, with soldiers at the Sino-Indian border," the news outlet wrote. 
  
 It does add though that the Modi government did enhance ties with China and Moscow and applied to be a member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. 
 
 Yet, Modi counterbalanced that, strategically.
 
 "Yet he also upgraded defense collaboration with the US and Japan, articulated his support for the US rebalance to the Asia-Pacific strategy and Washington's stance on the South China Sea issue," the state-run outlet writes.
 
 Global Times is still somewhat optimistic, as it defines the qualities of "hardliners", which is what it is implying Modi and the BJP are.
 
 "But while seeming inflexible on the surface, hard-liners also have powerful strength in coming to an agreement with others once they make up their mind, given their executive ability and high efficiency. That said, we can still be optimistic in resolving our divergences, including border disputes, with New Delhi during Modi's term as long as both sides are willing," the article said.
 
 
