DEHRADUN: Over three lakh families, many of them below poverty line, which were earlier enrolled under the Mukhyamantri Swasthya Bima Yojna (MSBY) are left without an insurance cover as their health cards have been deactivated. Many of them are reaching in a state of emergency to the hospitals only to find out that their cards are invalid or have been deactivated.
 
  Under the  , which was started in April 2015, a biometric smart card is issued to each family. The families are entitled to a health cover of Rs 50,000 and a critical illness cover of Rs 1,25,000. The smart card can be used at any of the empanelled hospitals for treatment. The scheme exempts dependants of government servants, pensioners and   payers.
  
  A top doctor involved in the MSBY scheme on condition of anonymity told TOI that three lakh families now do not have insurance cover for a variety of reasons. “With an eye on elections in the state, the former Congress government had tried to widen the scope of the scheme. The state government had tasked a private insurance company with collecting data and producing the biometric cards. The cards were sent to the health department for distribution among beneficiaries. In some cases, the firm dispatched the cards without keeping the health department in the loop. The health department had no record of these beneficiaries and when a new insurance company took over in October 2016 their cards were rendered invalid,” he said.
  
  The doctor added, “In some cases, quite surprisingly, a health card with the same registration number was sent to more than one family. Also, more than one card was issued to members of the same family. These cases came to light when the other company took over the operations and such health cards were deactivated. The health department should have envisioned the implementation of the scheme better.”
  
  A health department official on condition of anonymity added, “The previous government rolled out the scheme to lure voters but did not think it through. In its haste, the government asked ASHAs and ANMs, instead of trained professionals, to verify documents of beneficiaries. Now, lakhs of families are facing trouble.”
  
  Congress state spokesperson Mathura Dutt Joshi said, “No such issue was reported when the Congress government was in power. It appears that the BJP wants to end this project and reintroduce it in a new way.”
  
  Programme officer, MSBY, HCS Martolia, however, said that health cards of only ineligible MSBY beneficiaries have been deactivated.
  
  “Cards of only ineligible beneficiaries have been deactivated. ASHAs and other paramedical staff had undertaken thorough verification. We will enrol eligible families under the scheme in a drive that begins from August 1.”
  
  In various hospitals in the state, dejected faces of patients narrate their stories. At  , many patients said that they only found out that they are not covered under the health insurance once they reached the hospital.   from Boradi, Tehri, said, “My son met with an accident and we brought him to Doon hospital presuming he will be covered under MSBY but I was shocked to know that my card was invalid. We had to bear the cost of his surgery and treatment.”
