SURAT: Police have so far failed to trace the place or the person who manufactured the deadly liquid that was sold as homeopathic medicine in the city which after mixing with   (IMFL) on consumption had led to the death of six people in January. 

 Though   was nabbed from   on February 2 and he is in police custody since then, yet cops have failed to get details about the source of the deadly methyl alcohol liquid from him.
 
 Deb, a medical representative, is misleading the police and not giving exact details where the deadly homeopathic medicine Thuja was produced. Police have been unable to identify the man who had sold the medicine to Deb. 
 
 A team of crime branch sleuths of city police had visited West Bengal along with Deb, but they could not find anything from the places where the accused took them. Police are keen to investigate the entire channel from where the methyl alcohol was sourced. 
 
 “Police are working to find out the source of the medicine like where it was produced and by whom. We have not got any success so far. Our team took Deb to West Bengal to trace the place and find out about the person who gave him the medicine, but it could not get any strong lead,” city police commissioner   said.
 
 Deb managed to stay out of police’s reach for a long period of time even after his name had cropped up during the investigation of hooch tragedy since he used mobile sim-card sourced on a fake identity. 
 
 Deb kept the police guessing about his actual identity since he made calls to his customers in Gujarat from the phone that had sim-card sourced on the fake identity. However, the police were able to trace him with the help of local police on February 2 in West Bengal.
 
 Investigation of hooch tragedy has proved to be tricky for the cops from the start itself. First, it took a long time for the police to know that homeopathic medicine Thuja had methyl alcohol in it. This was a new modus operandi of bootleggers to prepare liquor to beat stricter prohibition law in the state. 
 
