BALLARI: The   here on Wednesday sentenced 37 of the 87 accused in   cases, to 10 years imprisonment, in addition to asking each of them to pay a fine of Rs 25,000. 

 Of the 37 individuals who have been convicted, 26 are women - two of whom are HIV positive. Although they were convicted on Tuesday, Justice VH Dharwadkar had reserved the sentencing for Wednesday. Initially, the number of accused in this case were 39. But, two of the accused have passed away.
 
 The other 50 individuals accused of having indulged in human trafficking are being tr ied in three separate cases. They have been charged with selling girls, including 21 minors. All 50 of them are being charged under various sections of the  , and sections of the   (POCSO) Act. 
 
 Acting on a tip off from the   NGO, Justice and Care,   police rescued 43 victims from brothels in August 2013. Cops arrested 51 individuals for allegedly indulging in the sale of girls. Police carried out these operations in DC Nagar in Ballari.
 
 Cops also seized Rs 4.59 lakh in cash, besides account books during the raid. Among the girls who were rescued by police, seven were found to have been brought to Ballari from Bangladesh.
 
 Former Ballari superintendent of police, Chethan Singh Rathore, who conducted the raids, hailed this as a perfect example of NGOs working with law enforcement agencies to curb human trafficking.
 
 Special public prosecutor Rathod Ramsingh dubbed the conviction and the sentence a victory. "The proceedings took three years, but the accused were convicted. Normally, only pimps are picked up. On this occasion, those involved in trafficking and brothel owners were nabbed, and subsequently convicted," he said.
 
 Adrian Phillips, a spokesperson for Justice and Care, said, "This verdict is a huge victory."
 
 Ramsingh added that the children involved in t he case raised all the pertinent facts in the case. "This proved solid enough to get the accused convicted. Based on a formal request, the judicial officer ensured that the victims could testify in a secure environment," Ramsingh pointed out. 
 
 Counsel for the accused, S Rangaswamy said they would appeal against the verdict. "The chargesheets filed were incomplete. Also, there were no medical reports used to invoke provisions of  ," he said.
