KOLKATA: The new   chief minister   will place in the   assembly on Friday isn't just about adding penal measures against offending healthcare givers.It also aims to give a level playing field to both healthcare institutions and patients.

 The naming of the proposed bill -West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Bill, 2017 -is also in line with the CM's repeated calls for transparency and giving a human touch to the health delivery system, treating it as a `seva' and not just a commercial proposition.
 
 Once the bill becomes an Act, private hospitals won't be able to deny treatment to accident, rape, acid attack and disaster victims, even if they don't have deep pockets to bear the costs. It also debars hospitals from holding back the dead till a family clears the bill. It, however, allows the institution to recover the cost and charges from the family later. The clause has a direct correlation with the recent plight of Howrah accident victim Sanjay Roy .
 
 A section of healthcare givers may fret over such provisions given rising costs of treatment, but an analysis of cases in which patient families complain of funds constraints compared to the total number of patients un not exceed more than 20% for OPD and 10% for indoor patients, well within a hospital's agreement with the state government. The proposed bill bars patients and their kin from venting their an ger on hospital premises.Instead, they must seek redress from the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. The proposed bill also at tends to concerns over medical reports and bil ling, an area that has touched many a raw nerve. To make the process transparent for a layman who is not in a position to question the doctor's wisdom, the proposed bill mandates hospitals to declare bed charges, ICU charges and package costs that can't be altered.
 
 But what happens when a patient admitted for gall blad patient admitted for gall bladder surgery is found to have developed a kidney ailment? The proposed bill gives an elbow room to hospitals to explain the need for further treatment exceeding a package cost. However, there is a cap as to what extent the treatment cost can oversho ot the package rates. A recent case in point is of the Murshidabad patient who was admitted to a private hospital on a Rs 1.5 lakh package that later shot up to Rs 23 lakh.
 
 Armed with judicial po wers, the commission may summon both parties in case of a dispute and examine the papers before passing an order.The proposed penal measures range between compensation and scrapping the licence of the caregiver. The commission may also put the offender behind bars up to three years.
 
 But having stringent provisions is only half the job if the government means a turnaround in the health sector. The existing Clinical Establishment Act, 2010, has similar penal clauses that were never enforced be cause the government didn't set up a tribunal.
 
 The test of the new move will depend on its implementation. The challenge will lie in the manner in which the clinical regulatory commission functions. Private hospitals have come under pressure from patients to make concessions beyond limit. The commission will have to fend off arm-twisting efforts from both sides.
 
 The recent slugfest between the government and hospitals has raised an alarm among doctors. “This will encourage patient parties to question every clinical move and arm-twist doctors. We are being threatened with legal action. You can't treat a critical patient with a gun pointed at you. We'll be inclined to refer critical cases to government hospitals to steer clear of wrong treatment charges,“ said a former member of the  .
 
 A senior surgeon felt that treatment will now become more conservative and defensive.“It could also be slow since doctors will now scrutinise at every step, which could be dangerous for critical patients.“ The apprehensions notwithstanding, the new regulation seeks to strike a balance between patient and caregiver that is tilted towards healthcare institutions.
 
