Piyush faints and is taken to his room by others. He gains consciousness and tells everyone that he felt weak. Simar sends him juice. At 12 o' clock in the night, Roshni finds herself locked in the room and Piyush is nowhere to be seen. She informs Simar about the same and finally tells her about the incident that happened in Jaipur.
 
  Elsewhere,  's Soumya asks Harman to take him to their son Aditya who is at the nursery. Initially Harman asks her to sleep but then gives in to her demand.
  
  
 
  
  Piyush goes to the nursery and picks up Soumya and Harman's baby. Outside he begins to dig a grave to bury the child. Soumya, who is sleeping outside on a bench with Harman, wakes up suddenly. She tells Harman that Aditya is in danger. They go inside and find Aditya missing from his cradle. With the help of the CCTV footage, Harman notices the car number of the kidnapper and goes to look for him.
  
  Aarav is unable to find Piyush anywhere in the house. At 6 am in the morning, Simar wakes up to find a baby at their doorstep. She doesn't know whose baby it is. Later she sees Piyush playing with the baby. Piyush tells them that he was in the study room when he dozed off. Harman and Soumya come to the Bharadwaj house looking for their baby.
  
  Harman slaps Piyush for kidnapping Aditya and tells everyone that he saw the CCTV footage of the car number. Chaddha, who works at the nursery, informs Preeto how their plan to get rid of Aditya has failed. To prove himself innocent, Piyush calls the mechanic who confirms that Piyush's car has not been working since three days.
  
  Soumya picks her baby. Simar and Maataji insist they stay with them for the night and leave the next day. They do so but at night again Piyush tries to stab Soumya. She manages to save herself. On enquiry, they learn that Piyush is sleeping in his room and draw the conclusion that Soumya must be upset due to the latest events.
  
  Next day after aarti, Simar gives them money to save their child from being taken by the authorities. Harman thanks her but refuses to take the money. Surbhi informs him on call that they have managed to arrange the money to stop Aditya from being taken.
