CHANDIGARH:   and their dependants would not be able to make purchases at the canteen stores department (CSD) canteens after February 28 if they do not possess a debit or credit card in their name.

 Going with the Union government’s  , the CSD has announced that only   (credit or debit card) payment would be received for any purchases from March 1 at canteens located in various  . 
 
 The decision is going to have direct impact on around 8 lakh military veterans and their families in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh. 
 
 As per the notices placed outside the CSD canteens, “Only debit/credit card will be accepted from March 1, 2017. No cash will be accepted in the canteen. All ex-servicemen and their dependants are requested to obtain cards at the earliest to avoid inconvenience”. 
 
 The notice further clarifies that the card should be in the name of smart card holder only. It means the ex-servicemen would not be able to make any purchases by using the debit or credit card of any other person. 
 
 Convener of the Indian ex-servicemen movement (north Haryana) Brig Kiran Krishan (retd) said sudden orders for mandatory use of plastic money for CSD purchases by veterans and their dependants appear harsh. “We are not against cashless transactions in CSD but it has to be implemented gradually. What about an illiterate female dependent or widow of a soldier living in villages as they need time to understand the whole thing otherwise it amounts to snatching of such privileges from a large section of military fraternity. The decision should not have been taken to please the king but to understand the ground realities,” Brig Kiran said.
 
 President of the ex-servicemen grievance cell, Mohali, Lt Col S S Sohi (retd) said they had expected gradual change and wish for some more time to go cashless. “The Army has also made it an emergency, like the announcement of demonetization made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Using card for small transactions for purchase of CSD items would also be a problem,” Lt Col Sohi added.
 
 The CSD facilities have already been made cashless for the serving personnel from January 1. The canteen service is a privilege given to active personnel in the defence services as well as ex-servicemen and their families. The CSD outlets provide everything from household essentials to liquor, electronics, and even auto-mobiles at rates much lower than existing market prices.
 
 The CSD business have been reported to be the most profitable retail chain in the country and had showed a profit of Rs 236 crore for 2014-15 financial year.
 
