ALLAHABAD: The   ( ) announced its third list of candidates for 100 more   of the seats, on Saturday. This include the names for all the 12 assembly seats of Allahabad district.
 
 With this only BJP and Congress remain the two major parties which have to decide the names of their candidates who would be contesting the 12 assembly seats.
  
 The list of BSP in terms of 12 seats of Allahabad bears significance as in 2012 elections, Samajwadi Party (SP) had won nine seats while the remaining three were son by BSP including the seat of City West, which was won by Pooja Pal who defeated Atiq Ahamad with a margin of 8885 votes. Atiq, who fought the seat on the ticket of Apna Dal, had been the MLA from this seat for continues five times, spanning from 1989 to 2002.
  
 In the last assembly elections, BSP’s candidates were in direct fight with the SP on eight seats where they polled second. BSP’s candidates lost two of these seats with a slender margin. Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi lost Allahabad South seat to Haji Parvej Ahmad of SP by a margin of just 414 votes whereas Anand Kumar Alias Collector Pandey lost the Meja assembly seat to Girish Chandra alias Gama Pandey by a margin of 740 votes.
  
 Of the list announced by BSP, on Saturday, the party has retained three of the sitting MLAs Pooja Pal from City West, Deepak Patel from Karchana and Rajbali Jaisal from Koraon assembly seat.
  
 Of the remaining seats, the party has given ticket to Manoj Pandey from Phaphamau, Geeta Pasi from Soaraon, Mohammad Masoor from Phulpur, Hakin Lal Bind from Handia, Suresh Kumar Mishra from Meja, Mashukh Khan from City South, Amit Srivastava from City North and Ashok Kumar Gautam from Bara assembly seats.
  
 The party has changed its candidates in six assembly seats despite the fact that their candidates had polled second in the 2012 elections. Only Mustafa Siddiqui has been again given ticket by the party from Pratapur seat despite being defeated by Vijma Yadav of SP by the margin of 12808 votes in the last elections.
 
