HYDERABAD: The   ( ) has proposed to take up white topping of 22 roads before the onset of the monsoon, but the move may get derailed as shifting of utilities, including water lines, may get delayed.

 The GHMC had identified 22 roads for white topping and another 16 for laying `model BT' roads in the city. Cement concrete overlay on the existing damaged and distressed bitumen (BT) roads with provisions like ducts, drains, footpaths and greenery has been proposed.The GHMC officials had handed over the short-listed stretches to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) to shift water and sewer lines.“Under phase-I, the GHMC has decided to take up white topping of 22 roads and 16 model BT roads. The white topping is part of the plan to make Hyderabad a global city,“ a GHMC of ficial said. Water board officials said delay in identifying alternate roads to allow traffic when they take up works for shifting water and sewer lines, narrow and congested roads and ongoing examinations were major hurdles.
 
 “The HMWS&SB is ready to shift water and sewer lines on the stretches identified for white topping. However, we have not commenced work due to the examination season. Another major hurdle in shifting water lines now is it may paralyse supply in the summer months. The shifting work may not only cause inconvenience to road-users, but it may hit water supply to consumers,“ sour ces in HMWS&SB told TOI.
 
 “We also need traffic police help in identifying alternate roads before shifting water and sewer lines. On a few stretches, we found the carriageway is very narrow and traffic may go haywire if we take up work without identifying alternate roads. On some stretches, identified by the GHMC, the metro rail works are in progress. Before shifting lines, we have to coordinate with other departments, include TSSPDCL and telecom,“ he added.
 
 When contacted, HMWS&SB officer-on-special duty (Projects & IT) M A Kabeer said, “We have asked general managers of operation and maintenance (O&M) divisions concerned to send estimates to shift both water and sewer lines. By the end of this month, we will get estimates and float tenders to take up the work.The water board, however, will take measures like barricading the sites. We hope to complete shifting of water and sewer lines before the onset of the monsoon,“ he added.
 
