Teknaf, Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh: As thousands of   refugees, fleeing their homeland, cross the border at Cox’s Bazar each day, Bangladesh stares at a possibly bigger crisis with aid agencies severely falling short of drinking water and other essential supplies. 

 With a continuous drizzle across Cox’s Bazar and about 2.15 lakh people forced to live in the open, international aid organizations fear a spread of water-borne diseases soon. Though they have escaped swords, bullets and petrol bombs while escaping ruthless ethnic cleansing in Myanmar, the hapless refugees now find themselves without shelter, waiting for aid to arrive.
 
 “It has made a transition from a non-emergency to an emergency phase now. At this juncture, we need big airlifts and a large amount of aid to reach people entering Bangladesh in huge numbers. Nobody anticipated the situation to change at such a rapid pace,” said Chris Lom, senior regional media and communication officer of   (IOM). 
 
 He knows that with around 20,000-25,000 refugees entering Cox’s Bazar each day, even the best of efforts are proving to be inadequate. Since August 25, international aid agencies have provided tarpaulins for 85,000 people. The rest are forced to live under the open sky.
 
 At areas like Shah Porir Dwip, Shamalpur and Leda — the southernmost transit sites — Rohingya refugees continued to pour in. For the past several days, they have braved rain in the jungles, survived on worms, weeds and even leaves, drunk water from nearby streams. Some of the elderly, with none to accompany them, were too exhausted to walk any more and sat amid the jungle. Those who made it to the Myanmar borders continued to starve.
 
 “We have carried my father slung in bamboo poles and walked through the terrain hidden inside the jungle. For the first few days we had given him flattened rice to eat. Later we ate whatever we could lay our hands on. He needs water and food now,” said Mobarak, who had been walking for the past eight days with his brother. 
 
 Mobarak does not have any energy left in him to walk further to the camps and the brothers decided to cross Teknaf town and stay on the road if they find a place. Thousands like Mobarak have already started looking for a place on the hillocks along the Arakan Road.
 
 “This is the most challenging situation for the agencies and NGOs working in the area. At a place, we have seen people defecating in the open and women collecting water from a puddle a few metres away. That is a very dangerous situation as the water can get contaminated any time,” Lom observed. 
 
 Exposed to sun, rain and mosquitoes in the jungles, lakhs of Rohingya refugees have become extremely vulnerable to diseases. 
 
 Old camps like Kutupalang and Nayapara are bursting at the seams with fresh arrivals each day and are not in a position to accommodate more. Having hosted 21,000 people over the past fortnight, new makeshift camps were set up to house 1.55 lakh refugees. “As camps are growing every day, we need to provide safe drinking water and basic sanitation. We want to prevent water-borne diseases. There are many vulnerable people in the camps, including a large number of children, women and elderly who are living in very poor hygienic conditions. Waterborne diseases are extremely dangerous for children in this type of situation,” said Jean Lieby, chief of child protection, Unicef Bangladesh.
 
 On the other side of the Naf river, running between Bangladesh and Myanmar, villages kept burning as the ethnic cleansing continued. The fortunate ones, who fled and cross over to Bangladesh, kept staring at the smoke and thanked their stars. 
 
 
