MUMBAI: The police have found that the three men arrested on Friday for posing as vigilance officers and trying to conduct a sting operation on cyber crime police senior inspector   at BKC ran an organization under the name of ' , a subsidiary of Central Vigilance Commission' that is into extorting money.

 On Monday, the accused--Shailendra Pandit (34),   (22) and   (24), all Navi Mumbai residents--were sent to judicial custody for 15 days. The police said that the trio attempted the sting to blackmail Phadke so that she does not intiate action against Gupta, who is an accused in a job fraud case that she is probing.The cyber police initiated a probe into the fraud case after receiving an application from the National Grievance Cell about a Kerala resident being duped of Rs 1.57 lakh last year.
 
 RTI activist Aarti   said, “My husband has lodged several complaints at police stations in Navi Mumbai about the accused running extortion rackets under the name Media Intelligence Network, a subsidiary of Central Vigilance Commission, but no action was taken.“
 
 Chauhan's husband Anarjit had also alerted the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) about the accused misusing its name. In September 2016, Chauhan filed an RTI query with the CVC and found that “there is no process to enroll as a member of the commission“. The CVC's RTI reply on September 16, 2016 to Chauhan stated, “If it comes to the notice that an agency or a person is misusing the name of CVC, matter will be referred to the police for registering an FIR and action will be taken.“
 
 Investigators have learnt that the accused through their organization has been providing protection to quacks and all those involved in illegal ac tivities in and around Navi Mumbai. “They would provi de fake ID cards and certifica tes so that police would not in terfere in the illegal activities.
 
 Quacks are their biggest cli ents who had subscribed to their `lifetime membership' for Rs 1 lakh. They would also act as middlemen to bribe cops,“ said an officer.
 
 According to the police, on Friday, the three accusd wal ked into Phadke's cabin at the cyber crime police station in BKC, flashing identity cards that showed they were CVC officials. They told Phadke that they wanted to inquire about a case where a Kerala man was falsely promised a job and then duped. However, the sting operation came undone when Phadke spotted a spy pen camera in the shirt pocket of one of the accused. Subsequently, Phadke handed over the trio to BKC police.
 
