LUCKNOW: Dethroned president of the Samajwadi Party,  , who has hardened his stand against his son chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his cousin party leader   whom he expelled, may get more aggressive in days to come while finalising his plans to field candidates in the assembly elections due to begin shortly across Uttar Pradesh. 

 Being sidelined in the party and rank and file, Mulayam is keeping an eye on the party’s state headquarters and cadres and discussed the strategy with his younger brother Shivpal Yadav late Tuesday night.
 
 Two days before he was ousted as chief of the Samajwadi Party he sent out a stern message to the rival camp headed by Akhilesh saying he still calls the shots in the party and owns and controls it by locking the doors and taking away the keys of the main offices. He had made it clear that he would not give up so easily and the same morning he flew to Delhi, where he wrote to the   challenging the constitutionality of the national convention called by Ram Gopal.
 
 Mulayam condemned Ram Gopal Yadav, who is main petitioner against him before the Election Commission and removed him from the post of the party’s Rajya Sabha leader. Ram Gopal, who is acting as guide and mentor of Akhilesh has prayed before the commission that Mulayam has been removed from the post of party president and Akhilesh has become the new chief of the party. To substantiate his claims before the commission,   submitted affidavits of 220 MLAs and over 5,000 delegates, which rattled Mulayam further.
 
 In a clever move, Mulayam offered to declare that none other than Akhilesh Yadav will be chief minister of UP, but he did not concede on any main contention between the warring camps and the move is being seen to corner Akhilesh further.
 
 During discussions with Akhilesh on Tuesday, Mulayam insisted that the January 1 be declared null and void and that he relinquish the party president post. But Akhilesh Yadav declined to accept the demand. The talks between the father and son failed again giving ground to reports that in the days to come , Mulayam would assert himself further. The Akhilesh Yadav camp is apprehending that Mulayam would try to regain lost ground in the party headquarters.
 
 After meeting Akhilesh, Mulayam called Shivpal to his residence on Tuesdsay night and discussed plan to field his own candidates. Shivpal Yadav had returned to Lucknow after being in Delhi for the last three days. Shivpal, who has already clarified he was neither interested in any post in the party nor contesting the election is keeping himself away from the raging despite between father and son. 
 
 On the other hand, Akhilesh Yadav’s camp compromising mostly youth leaders is fully prepared to go to elections alone. Akhilesh is in a decisive mood to establish himself in the   for good while keeping his rivals at bay.
 
 
