The festivities at  , Ammapalle, came to an end with a tapestry of   and   this Sunday. The evening kick-started with Kiranmayee Mudupu’s Bharatnatyam recital, Satyagraga Pancharatna, which brought to life the episode from Mahabharata, where Lord Krishna reveals his Vishwaroop to Arjuna before the battle of Kurukshetra. As she switched roles effortlessly playing the saint poet Annamacharya one moment before transitioning into the mischievous Bala Krishna the next, and then becoming an aghast Yashoda, the 500-strong audience were left spellbound. Kiranmayee’s mastery in nrittya came to the fore in her third and final piece, Raghuvamsasudha, which was filled with intricate footwork and graceful body movements that got the audience clapping.
Next, it was the turn of a troupe of young dancers of   to mesmerise the crowd. Set to Adi Sankaracharya’s Sanskrit stotra, the first piece Arthanareeswar depicted Shiva and Shakti in tandava. Next up was a stellar performance called Synthesis — a fusion dance with contemporary movements fused with Odissi. 
 Finally, it was time for the star act of the evening to take the stage — Odissi icon Ratikant Mohapatra, son of legendary Kelucharan Mohapatra. With the dance ballet, Jatayu moksha,   and Rajshree Praharaj captivated the audience with breathtaking nritya and matchless abhinaya, depicting the story of Jatayu who tried to stop Ravana from 
 abducting Sita. From Jatayu putting up a valiant fight against Ravana to dying on Lord Rama’s lap, every detail was depicted with utmost sensitivity.
 Vishwas, a philosophical number, was a fitting final performance for the night. Focussing on the essence of all religions artistically, the piece came with a message of peace. 
 The music — a combination of gurbani, Kabir’s doha and Sufi and the lyrical movements were received with a thunderous applause.
 As Ratikant entranced the audience with his graceful yet powerful moves which defied his age, he also broke a few rules for this performance. “I deliberately did not make this a traditional Odissi margam performance. I was aware that the the audience here will be from different walks of life. In a traditional margam concert, it is hard for an uninitiated audience to stay engaged. So I chose these mythological and thematic pieces, combined with contemporary dance forms to keep the audience hooked till the end,” he said, referring to his fusion and contemporary performance. 
 
 
