MUMBAI: In a significant victory for members of the `Save Rani Bagh Botanical Garden Foundation', the   formed to look into suggestions and objections to the  , has designated the   and Zoo as a `botanical garden, garden and zoo'. What is pertinent to note here is that the designation of a  ' has been especially created for the purpose.

 It may be recollected that in the earlier draft DP released in February 2015, which had to be sent back to the drawing board, the BMC designated the Udyan only as a zoo. Popularly known as `Rani Bagh', the over 53-acre space in the heart of Mumbai was opened to the public in 1862.The botanical garden today is home to 853 plant species and more than 3,000 trees.
 
 The new classification however hasn't come easy said the trustees, who have been working for the last 10 years to preserve the character of the bota nical garden. “The designation makes a lot of difference as our aim has been to protect this invaluable green lung. From the time we started off we had put in the word `botanical' garden in the name of our foundation though it made it sound wordy ,“ said Hutokshi Rustomfram, trustee of the  .
 
 The planning committee report states, “During the hearing process it was suggested the ex isting VJB Udyan be shown as a botanical garden due to the rich variety of trees and biodiversity it contains and considering the request, a legend for `botanical garden' in designation category was introduced, which was added to the already designated gardenpark and zoo. Also an additional code for `botanical garden' in the reservation category was included.“
 
 The foundation is working with the BMC to install 50 pla ques near prominent trees of both native and exotic species giving out its scientific name, common name, family , flowering season, origin etc.
 
 Shubhada Nikharge, another trustee of the foundation said everyone keeps mentioning the gardens as a zoo. “It is always referred to as `Byculla zoo'. However it was the botanical garden which was initially inaugurated in 1862, the zoo was added in 1890,“ said Nikharge.
 
 
