GURUGRAM: Eyewitness accounts of moments after Pradhyumn’s murder have now started emerging. A Class IX student of  , Bhondsi and a parent have now come forward with what they saw on the fateful morning of September 8.

 A 14-year-old student, who was present near the restroom where the seven-year-old’s body was found, told TOI he was late for his test on Friday morning. The seating plan had him assigned to a classroom not his own, so he had to cross the ground floor corridor where   was killed, to search for it. When he reached the restroom, school staff had just carried Pradhyumn outside and laid him on his stomach, a deep cut visible on his neck.
 
 “I saw the deep slit on his throat. He was lying in a pool of blood, his bag lying nearby soaked in blood,” said the student. “Student coordinator Anju was asking him how he felt, but he didn’t respond. She called two men to pick him up. Aunty (an attendant) was there too,” he added. “I thought it was an accident. It was only after I reached home that I heard he’d been murdered.”
 
 A parent,   (53), also witnessed Pradhyumn being carried to hospital, while he was waiting at the reception to pay his son’s fees. He shot a video of the crime scene, and also interacted with the accused, bus conductor Ashok, before cops arrived.
 
 “It was around 8.10am. I was at the reception when I saw the boy being carried out. His body was covered with a towel, with only his face visible. There was a lot of blood,” said Garg.
 
 The staff immediately summoned all drivers and gave one of them the key to the school car to carry the boy to hospital. The principal asked the cashier to take out money, but left for hospital without collecting it, recalled Garg, who even spotted and spoke to Ashok.
 
 “This man had lots of blood on his shirt. So I asked him not to wash it till cops arrive. Then I got busy helping staff in barricading the washroom area. A few minutes later, he joined us. He had washed his shirt. When I accosted him for it, he said the blood was making him feel uneasy,” Garg told TOI. 
 
 Cops arrived at around 8.45am. Garg stayed back and shot a video of the crime scene, which shows there are no footprints in the blood to establish how many people walked in and out till cops arrived.
 
 
