MARGAO: Fatorda is without doubt the home of  . In recent times, the Nehru Stadium has staged all major events and is now gearing up to host the Fifa under-17 World Cup later this year.
 
  Just outside the stadium, there are enough open spaces where various games are played. Handball, cricket, hockey; you name it and the vast space can accommodate your favourite sport. It is this space that Ambelim Sports Club has put to good use by erecting a special arena that is now hosting football’s sleek version, the  .
  
  The GSPL, a seven-a-side football tournament that follows in the footsteps of successful ventures in Kerala, appears to have rekindled enthusiasm for football to some extent. It’s certainly not what you see during FC Goa’s home matches in the Indian Super League but if the crowd response at SAG ground in Fatorda on the opening day is any indication, the format is here to stay.
  
  It helped that the organizers had started the buzz almost a month ago. The theme song -- Rise as one Goa -- was already making waves on social networking platforms and on the first day of the league, it all fell into place.
  
  The teams -- Churchill Brothers SC and Dempo Sports Club – played their part. They gave their best and in the end it were Churchill Brothers who had the last laugh as they scripted a 3-1 victory, thanks to Agnelo Colaco’s hat-trick.
  
  Beevan D’Mello pulled a goal back for Dempo, who will now have to get their acts together for the next clash against St Cruz Club, Cavelossim, on Saturday.
  
  The Sevens League guarantees end-to-end action throughout the 60 minutes of play on a smaller 60-metre field. The teams, not used to such a format and field, struggled to cope with the new set-up, except for Agnelo who didn’t take much time to get into the act.
  
  His first goal just before the break was a stunner as he floated a corner straight into the goal. It got the crowd on their feet and gave Dempo something to think about at the break.
  
  After the change of ends, Beevan equalized for Dempo with a deft grounder. There was plenty of action at either end with both keepers -- Ricardo Cardozo (Churchill) and Tyson Caiado (Dempo) –on their toes but there was no stopping the Churchill juggernaut.
  
  The introduction of Quan Gomes proved to be decisive as the midfielder delightfully set up Agnelo for his second. Minutes later Agnelo cleverly chipped the ball over Dempo goalkeeper Tyson to seal three points from a lightning quick counter-attack.
  
  “To start something new is always difficult but the Goa Football Association will continue its support to this tournament and hope it gains in popularity,” said   president  .
  
  The first day’s show at GSPL was entertaining. The crowd seemed to have enjoyed as well. With six other teams from the Goa Pro League still to showcase their skills, there is plenty to look forward to.
