KOLKATA: In almost three decades, a   was photographed for the first time in North Bengal. 

 The driver of a private car has clicked the big cat’s image near   National Park on Thursday morning. Though there were reports of ghost tiger sightings in north Bengal, including in forests like Buxa, Jaldapara and Neora Valley, no photo evidence of the same was available. 
 
 Chief wildlife warden   said: “A local named Anmol Chhetri sighted the big cat between Pedong and Lava around seven in the morning. He clicked its image and sent it to the range officer, who in turn informed the local DFO. They immediately rushed to the spot and found the big cat’s   and a cattle kill. We have decided to install camera traps in the area too.”
 
 It may be noted that during the last country-wide tiger census, the Centre had estimated a presence of only three tigers in north Bengal — in the Jaldapara-Buxa landscape — based on analysis of scat samples. However, the scientists of   refused to authenticate the source of samples sent to them. 
 
 In 1999, presence of 18 tigers was recorded based on a pug-mark census in Neora Valley. A forester said they pegged the number based on presence of pug marks and direct sightings by villagers. 
 
 Conservationist Biswapriya Rahut said that sighting of tiger was earlier reported from various parts of north Bengal, including Neora Valley. “In 1998, pugmarks were found in Neora Valley. Before that there were reports of cattle lifting in the area too. Even a tiger was reportedly sighted near Zuluk around five years back. Besides, Neora Valley is contiguous with forests like Gorumara, Pangolakha and even Mahananda. So, movement of tiger here is not unnatural,” he added.
 
 “In 2014, I had submitted a proposal to the honourable chief minister as a member of wildlife board to declare Neora Valley as a tiger reserve. Today’s development has only reaffirmed my stand. Now, the protection measures should be beefed up immediately in and around the park,” said state wildlife advisory board member Joydip Kundu.
 
 
