LUCKNOW: As chief minister Akhilesh Yadav took full control of Samajwadi Party on Sunday, it prompted the   chief   to come up with a strategy to project the young CM as having dumped his father and   chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, with whom Muslims have been siding strategically since the Ram Temple movement of early 1990s.
 
 Keen to cut into the Muslim vote bank of Samajwadi Party, Mayawati is learnt to have decided to get the perception of ‘Mulayam being dumped’ setting in among the minority community through a series of public meetings organised by her party cadres. “The perception of Mulayam being a crusader of Muslim politics has been very strong through the years and Akhilesh is nowhere close to his father’s image among minorities,” said a senior BSP leader close to Mayawati.
 
 Another BSP leader cited Shivpal Yadav’s letter on Sunday stating that “Some people facing CBI probe are helping the BJP”. A similar charge was levelled by SP leader   accusing   of being a BJP agent in Mulayam’s camp.
 
 Political experts said the situation gives Mayawati another chance to win the Muslim vote bank crucial in UP assembly elections, due shortly. BSP sources said Mayawati has been keeping close watch on the development since the   in the Yadav family broke out around three months ago.
 
 Mayawati was silent throughout the squabble between Akhilesh and his uncle Shivpal and waiting to see who emerges a clear winner in the battle for SP reins. Earlier, she had targeted Mulayam for being driven by ‘Putra Moh’ (love of his son Akhilesh) making his brother Shivpal a scapegoat in the overall crisis. She had been attempting to drive a wedge in the SP by claiming that Yadav vote bank would get divided between Akhilesh and his uncle Shivpal, while appealing to Muslims to vote for her party. Political experts said clear division only furthers the hope of Mayawati to combine Muslims with her core Dalit vote bank.
 
 “The apprehension of Muslim-Yadav combination standing on shaky grounds may, therefore, work in favour of Mayawati,” said political commentator, J P Shukla. He said the entire confusion between the SP is bound to send out a negative message among the Muslims who have been voting for SP strategically against the BJP. JNU professor Badri Narayan said Mulayam will be rendered insignificant unless he regroups his old loyalists and launches an election campaign parallel to his son’s.
 
 
