PATNA: In a major setback to the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, also known as  , two of the four newly born Royal Bengal tiger cubs have died -- one on Sunday while the other immediately after birth.

 The four cubs were born to white tigress Swarna and normal-colour tiger Bhema on March 14.
 
 It is for the second time that tiger cubs have died at Patna zoo soon after birth. In March 2014, one of the four cubs born to Swarna had died within a few days after birth.
 
 Patna zoo director Nand Kishore described the death of the two cubs as natural. “The two cubs were very weak at the time of birth. One of them was almost stillborn as it could not even move though it was after few hours that we realised it was dead. As for the second cub, CCTV footage of the tiger enclosure shows the mother tigress sitting on the cub, following which it died,” he said, adding mother tigresses normally abandon weak cubs and segregate them from the healthy ones.
 
 Nand Kishore told TOI on Monday the remaining two cubs were healthy and being closely observed by a team of veterinarians. “The vets are taking the help of CCTV cameras installed inside the night house where Swarna delivered the cubs, to keep a close watch on the growth of the two cubs,” he said.
 
 Zoo sources said the mother prefers to remain with her cubs all the time. She leaves the night enclosure only when she has to go to the feeding chamber to eat or drink water.
 
 “We will not force the tigress or the cubs out of the night house. The night house of the tiger enclosure has an opening towards an enclosed nursery. If the mother so wishes, she may on her own take out the cubs in the open. Or, the cubs will walk out once they are able to move on their feet,” Nand Kishore said, adding visitors to the zoo in any case would not be able to see the cubs before a year or so.
 
 With the two cubs surviving, the number of tigers at the Patna zoo has surged to seven.
 
 Bhima and Swarna were brought to Patna from the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad in August 2011 under an animal exchange programme. The Patna zoo gave a pair of Indian single-horned rhinos to the Hyderabad zoo.
 
 The Patna zoo administration arranged fresh mating sessions for Swarna and Bheema around four months ago. “We had taken measures, including increased quantity of meat in her diet, to ensure the success of delivery and good health of the cubs and their mother,” said Nand Kishore.
 
 
