

  HYDERABAD: The historic   has been facing severe shortage of staff. Several pleas to the state government to strengthen the mosque's security staff has fallen on deaf ears. 
 
 The heritage structure needs at least 25 home guards to take care of security. But there are only 16 guards. There is also shortage of staff on non-security duty. Those taking   and miscellaneous works are overburdened with work. 
 
 "We are managing with a limited number of security guards. We have divided the guards into two groups. Each group consists of eight guards. They work continuously for 24 hours and then take rest the next day. The other group of eight guards then take over the duties and work for 24 hours, explained  , superintendent of Mecca Masjid. 
 
 He said it is difficult to hire security guards as many are not willing to work in the mosque. "This is because the guards working here are not paid salaries on time. There is always a delay of two or three months," he added. 
 
 Though the superintendent claimed that on usual days, existing guards manage the work, it becomes difficult on Friday and weekends, when people visit the mosque in large numbers. 
 
 "The salary is just 12,000 and we have to work for 24 hours. The next day goes mostly in sleeping. If I fall sick and miss even a day, I will lose one day's wage. There are no leaves," said  , a home guard in the masjid. 
 
 Adding to their woes, the guards have to pay extra money to get uniforms. The huge structure requires daily cleaning and maintenance. But only nine employees are on the rolls in the maintenance wing. "We require nine more people to do these jobs. During occasions like Ramzan and Eid, I have to hire temporary workers to do the work," said Siddique. 
 
 One of the home guards, who met with an accident two months ago, is attending work with an injured leg. "I was not in a position to attend duty for nearly a month. I did not get salary for May due to absence from work. I have not recovered from the injury, but I am forced to work as I won't get salary if I take rest," said  . 
 
 The guards alleged that they do not get any service benefits. They do not have proper facilities during the night shift. Their problems are compounded during monsoon. They have not been provided with even rain coats.
 
 "There is no proper shelter for us. In case we get drenched, we have to spend the whole night wearing wet clothes," said Qureshi. They said often they are forced to take shelter under the structure housing the tombs of former Nizams of Hyderabad.
 
 "The roof leaks whenever it rains heavily. There are cracks in the roof. There should be a proper structure to accommodate at least seven security guards on the mosque premises," he added. Adding to their woes, the guards have to pay extra money to get uniforms, which otherwise should have been provided by the state government. "They are supposed to get uniforms every year. But, this does not happen," one of the guards said. Mecca Masjid is managed by the minorities welfare department. It is a protected monument of archaeological, cultural and religious importance.
 
