NEW DELHI: Sneha was just seven when her father was run over by a train after his leg got stuck in an opening in a railway track. 

 Two years on, she — along with her three siblings — will sit on a   outside South Delhi Municipal   headquarters on Monday, demanding that the civic body release her father’s pension and other dues.
 
 It was on June 11, 2015, when Subhash Chindalia, a sanitation worker with  , met with that fatal accident. Since then, his four children have seen their pleas ignored by politicians and municipal unions alike. Twenty-two-year-old Vikas Chindalia said the tragedy hit their mother the hardest. “Our mother went into depression. Father was the sole breadwinner of the family and, so, I had to drop out of college and find odd jobs to make ends meet,” he said. 
 
 The unsteady income flow, however, has meant that life remains a struggle for the Chindalias. After paying rent for their Tughlakabad accommodation in south Delhi, the family is left with little money to meet their day-to-day requirements. Vikas claimed that over the last two years, he has visited SDMC offices several times with documents showing his father’s service record but in vain.
 
 Neelam, the eldest of the siblings, said: “It was my first experience of how things work in real life. I was terribly disappointed. The officers didn’t even give us a hearing, forget about helping us out. Our fight for dad’s pension and other financial benefits (given to dependents of employees) goes on.” Vikas claimed that his request for a job was also turned down.
 
 When contacted, SDMC spokesperson Mukesh Yadav said they would find out the status of the grievance and try to provide a solution. Meanwhile, Vikas is worried about the marriage of Neelam and Minakshi, his other sister. The four siblings have approached political leaders as well. 
 
 Delhi Pradesh Safai Karamchari Sangh, one of the many unions of sanitation workers, had promised help. So far, none has been forthcoming. The children have written a letter to the SDMC commissioner, informing him about their plan to launch a stir. “We have also informed the police of the dharna,” said Vikas.
 
 
