CHANDIGARH: The ambitious project of the   to install 25 megawatt (MW)   biggest of the city ­­ at Patiala Ki Rao, a seasonal rivulet, is yet to see light of the day.

 Chandigarh is being developed as model solar city as part of the   of Solar Energy.
 
 The project, which is crucial for the administration to achieve the target of generating 50 MW ­­ both residential and government ­­ by 2022 is hanging fire since 2015.
 
 The project, which was initially to be implemented by Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), was accorded approval in 2015. A year later, the project was handed over to the engineering department. However, till date no progress has been made.
 
 To get the project rolling, UT home secretary will hold a meeting next week with the the engineering department and CREST.
 
 According to sources, the administration will not be able to achieve the target of 50 MW by 2022 if the project is not completed on time.
 
 Santosh Kumar, UT, director, environment, and CEO of CREST, said they were hopeful of meeting the target by completing the project on time.
 
 So far, one of the largest rooftop solar PV plants of 1 MW capacity has been installed and commissioned at Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12. CREST has empanelled 45 agencies for installing rooftop grid SPV power plants. Of the 145 solar plants on government buildings, 59 have been put up in   generating 2290 kWp of power. 
 
 CREST has set a target of installing SPV power plants on all the 107 government schools by the end of 2017. Progress made by Chandigarh administration in promotion of solar power was featured in the book `New Beginning' on innovations for Prime Minister's Award for Excellence. The book was released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Civil Services Day 2017 in Delhi.
 
 CREST bagged two national awards for promoting solar energy. In January, CREST was conferred with the best state nodal agency award for promotion of   among UTs and also bagged the second prize in highest rooftop solar addition in year 2015-16 among UTs.
 
