SS  's '
 ' has had yet another phenomenal week at the domestic box-office. The film that has been raking in the moolah at the ticket windows, garnered as much as Rs 67.25 crore nett (from the Hindi market) at the end of its third week, according to a report on  .com. 

 The Prabhas and   starrer has now become the highest third-week grosser of all time. The record was previously held by  's 'Dangal', which collected an estimated Rs 44.02 crore nett. 
 
 
 
 '  2' shattered and created numerous records within its three weeks at the box-office. Week one's total collection was recorded at Rs 246.47 crore approx followed by Rs 142.52 crore in its second week and finally Rs 67.25 crore in its third week. The grand total of the film thus stands at an estimated Rs 456.24 crore nett. 
 
 The film that was released across 9000 screens worldwide, has amassed a gross collection of Rs 633 crore from the Hindi market so far, thus making it the first Hindi film to cross the 600-crore mark.
 
 Meanwhile, Many Bollywood stars have openly praised the film and joining this growing list is actress Alia Bhatt. The star had a lot to say about the SS Rajamouli epic and started out saying, “I mean, I liked it very much. I think it is absolutely fantastic. The way it is thrashing our box-office right now, I think all of us are shocked and also we kind of expected it because the first part itself was so good then the second part was just you know, another level.”
 
 
 She also added that she is a fan of the director and the stars of the franchise. Talking more about the film, Alia said that it was like “bread and butter” for artists and a complete inspiration.
 
 Finally, she gave her thoughts on what this feat meant for Bollywood, “I think we can take a cue from this, that we can also do it. If you have a vision, then even you can achieve this. So I have coined a new word for Baahubali- people say 'blockbuster', I think it’s a 'rock-buster' because it’s going rock steady at the box-office and is rocking everybody’s lives.”
 
  
  
 
 
