For the first time ever, city residents will consume rainwater collected in stone quarry sites.

 With the   in the last century,  , after exhausting all options, has decided to   from 22  , Kancheepuram district, right next to the  , one of the city's four drinking water sources. Work is in progress to lay a 2.5km pipeline at the quarry sites in Sikkarayapuram at a cost of Rs 11.8 crore. According to contractors handling the work, the pipeline will be ready by the end of May. The pipelines will snake through the 22 abandoned quarries and enter a trench under the Outer Ring Road to the Chembarambakkam reservoir. The utility will pump water from these quarries for transfer through the pipeline to a treatment plant at Chembarambakkam before it sends it to the city for distribution to residents.
 
 Experts agree that the December 2015 floods in Chennai were a man made disaster. As the city's water ways had turned into plots with constructions, excess wa structions, excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir flooded southern parts of the city. Man-made stone quarries have now come to the rescue.
 
 Over the years, the quarries have collected 3,000 million litres of rainwater in pools that are up to 50 feet deep. The quantity is the equivalent of six days of water supply in Chennai. Experts esti mate that the city lost three years' worth of water supply to the sea during the floods. In an area less than 1km from the quarry sites at Sikkarayapuram, residents say the groundwater is unfit for drinking.The quarry sites are not affected by the unpotable groundwater as they lie around 100ft below ground level and are surrounded by impenetrable rock layers.
 
 “The groundwater that we draw is not fit for cooking. We use it mostly to wash vessels. But water in the quarries is fresh and ready to drink,“ says tea stall owner K Kumar.
 
 This latest water source may bring brief respite to residents who do not get enough supply from Metrowater and depend on groundwater from borewells.But groundwater is a scarce resource due to the failure of the monsoon last year. Metrowater stated last month that groundwater in the city is fast depleting and requested residents to use water judiciously . The city's four reservoirs are currently 95% empty and are set to dry out completely by the end of May .
 
