KOLHAPUR: The recently declared Credit Ratings reveal that the   ( ) is failing to prove its financial credibility.

 The   of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s hometown in Nagpur is also placed in the same BBB rating as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Other municipal corporations such as Navi Mumbai and Pune are placed in the top category of AA+. 
 
 Both Fadnavis and Union minister   are from Nagpur and the civic body receives funds from the state as well as central governments. In the case of Kolhapur, the civic body has to seek the advantage of the municipal bonds to raise funds.
 
 A senior KMC official said, “The low   shows that the KMC cannot bear to take risks when repaying the loans it will get after issuing municipal bonds. Several reforms have been undertaken to improve tax collection. The lower the gap between tax collected and annual target set is favourable for a higher credit rating. At present, the annual tax collection touches 90% and the deficit gets mounted each year. Efforts like dispatching bills on time and transparency in tax collection is helping us increase tax collection.”
 
 The Centre in its policy announced last year, floated the idea of municipal bonds as one of the modes to fund local development projects. Major projects in the city such as construction of commercial complexes and multi-level parking were floated on the basis of build operate and transfer (BOT). However, these projects could not be initiated because of low response from private investors. In such situations, municipal bonds may turn out to be effective in raising finances for the projects. Funds from the municipal bonds are raised for potable water supply, sewage and sanitation measures, solid waste management, roads, bridges, flyovers and improve urban municipal transport.
 
 At present, the KMC is seeking loans from various banks to fund its share in the main projects such as road construction and Kalammawadi Direct Pipeline Project. The Centre is likely to keep the municipal bonds out of tax ambit. “As per the ratings, the borrowing capacity of the KMC is around Rs 175 crore through the bonds. The municipal bonds should be tax free so that more investors are attracted to the initiative and the funds are raised in short span of time,” the official said.
 
 The buyer of the municipal bond gets interest over a pre-determined period and once the bond reaches its maturity date the full amount is returned to the buyer. The economists claim that the credit rating is the major indicator of the financial health of the civic body.
 
 V B Kakade, an economist said, “Most civic bodies in the state are under tremendous financial strain owing to the increase in the spending and constant revenue. Civic bodies have to depend on grants, loans and private investments to undertake new projects. There is a liability involved in the municipal bond process towards the citizens while in the BOT projects, the investor is the single entity bears less responsibility towards the citizens.”
 
