PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) will finally take over   Corporation after receiving a government resolution (GR) late on Thursday.

 The order issued issued on July 3 by the urban development department clearly states that all permissions and sanctions issued from December 4, 2015 will have to reviewed by PMRDA as the special planning authority (SPA) status of Lavasa stands cancelled from that date.
 
 The GR states that it has revised the limits of PMRDA, and the area under the SPA is included in the limits of PMRDA with effect from December 4, 2015.
 
 “We received the GR late on Thursday and will assess all the permissions from the said date. Environment clearances, permissions and sanctions will be checked from this date,” said Kiran Gitte, PMRDA chief.
 
 The state urban development department issued the notification on July 3, a month after the state government decided to scrap Lavasa’s SPA status.
 
 SPA status is usually given to government agencies such as Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the Mumbai urban agglomeration, or the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) for Navi Mumbai.
 
 With parking fees and entry fees being levied as pointed out, Gitte said every aspect will be reviewed and permissions will be granted as per the   only.
 
 “Every aspect will be kept and all the permissions given will be re-reviewed,” added Gitte.
 
 Lavasa was given SPA status during the   government under its hill station project in June 2008, and the BJP government that established the PMRDA in 2015 expanded its boundaries to include the area under Lavasa project. 
 
 “Now Lavasa will have to approach PMRDA for any further permissions and sanctions. Action can be initiated for any irregularities,” said Gitte.
 
 The GR will be available for inspection at the director town planning,   as well as office of the joint director town planning.
 
 Officials from Lavasa told TOI they have received the GR and are studying it.
 
