NEW DELHI: Minutes after 
  for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections,   (SP) chief minister   spoke about his party manifesto which promises smartphones for the state's meritorious students, pressure cookers for the state's women and a pension scheme of Rs 1,000 for 1 crore of the state's women.

  
  featured a photograph of him and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav who founded the SP. But conspicuous by their absence while Akhilesh was speaking, were Mulayam and his uncle Shivpal Yadav. The Uttar Pradesh CM was on one side and his father and uncle on another side in an intra-party feud that has gone on since September and which is currently at a shaky impasse.
 
 At the event with Akhilesh were MLA   and SP national vice president Kiranmoy Nanda, along with a host of other senior leaders. Akhilesh lambasted the BJP-led centre for promising 'acche din', or good times, but "not delivering" on that promise. The SP, he said, does what it promises.
 
  "We (SP) don't differentiate between what we say and what we do...We promised laptops, we gave people laptops. It's been three years but people are still looking for 'Ache Din' and development. Where are the 'achche din' that were promised three years ago. Instead people have been given brooms in their hands in the name of Swachh Bharat and are bring given lessons in Yoga .... but nobody can see the Achche Din that were promised," Akhilesh said. 
 
 He added that the BJP needs to define its concept of 'acche din.'
 
 "The BJP needs to define 'achche din' so that people can themselves decipher what the promise has given them. We have fulfilled all the promises that we made in our 2012 manifesto and completed projects which were not (even) promised," the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.
 
 Among the projects that are progressing well, he mentioned the ambitious Lucknow-Agra Expressway project and the "excellent quality" of roads under that project. 
  
 "People will automatically vote for 'cycle' if they travel on those roads," Akhilesh said only half joking while referring to his party's electoral symbol which is a 'cycle'.
 
 Last week, 
  . The SP faction that supported his father and uncle also staked a claim to the cycle but the Election Commission awarded the symbol to Akhilesh and his supporters.
 
 The UP CM also said that the plans to work on improving the quality of education in all the state's schools. He acknowledged that the quality of education was seriously wanting in the state. He cited an example of students' ignorance, too.
 
 "One time I visited a school and some students thought I was  ," Akhilesh said, referring to the   party scion who is around the same age as him.
 
 Earlier today, the Congress party and the SP cemented their alliance for the upcoming 
  . The Congress managed to wrangle 105 seats for itself, even as it was appearing an alliance may not happen, as the Congress wanted to contest as many as 121 seats. But the two reached a compromise just before Akhilesh released the manifesto.
 
 At the receiving end of the SPs barbs was not just the BJP, it was also the opposition Bahujan Samaj Party (BP), run by  .
 
 Senior SP leader Ahmed Hasan attacked Mayawati for her so-called Muslim outreach. He said that during her tenure as CM there was not a single Muslim district magistrate posted in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 "If (at all) BSP comes to power, its government will (only) install bigger elephants," Akhilesh joked, referring to the stone elephants constructed in the state during Mayawati's reign.
 
 "Other parties are selling dreams and trying to identify themselves as the well wishers of certain communities. But people in UP know who is their real well wisher," he added. 
 
 
