GURUGRAM: A   employee, beaten up on May 19 allegedly by the father of a student who was denied promotion from Class V to VI, died in hospital on Tuesday night.

  (42), a finance officer with the school in Sector 22, was admitted to hospital with fractures in both hands and right leg. His wife Rinku alleged Tarun died of cardiac arrest after the student’s father, Bhupender Singh Dalal, visited him at   hospital around 11.45pm on Tuesday and threatened him.
 
 Dalal, a property dealer who lives in Bahadurgarh, has been arrested, based on a police complaint filed by Rinku.
 
 Tarun, originally from Allahabad, lived with his wife and 14-year-old son in H Block of Palam Vihar. A preliminary probe revealed he was targeted after the school decided to not promote Dalal’s son, citing his poor academic performance, this year. The school management had suggested he should be admitted to another school.
 
 But Dalal and his wife — the couple has been living separately for the past four years or so and their son lives with the mother in the Ashok Vihar area — refused to take their son away. Instead, they allegedly started threatening the school principal and staff to get their son promoted to Class VI.
 
 On May 19, Tarun was attacked by three men, including Dalal, with sticks and iron rods just outside his residence in Palam Vihar. In a statement to the police after the attack, Tarun had said, “I had gone home to collect some documents for a budget meeting of the school. As soon as I reached and parked my car, three men knocked on the car window and told me the husband of the school principal had asked me to come to Ansal Plaza. When I refused to go with them, they pulled me out of the car and beat me with sticks and iron rods. Hearing my screams, my wife came out of the house and shouted for help. The assaulters then fled.”
 
 Dalal and two others were initially booked under sections 323 (causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 427 (causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the IPC in the FIR lodged at Palam Vihar police station. However, after Tarun succumbed at the hospital, police incorporated Section 302 (murder) and picked up Dalal. The others are absconding.
 
 An autopsy was done on Tarun’s body to determine the cause of death. “He seems to have succumbed to his injuries. But we are not ruling out cardiac arrest as a possible reason behind the death. So we are sending the report to the forensic lab for confirmation,” said Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert at the   who conducted the autopsy.
 
 Sumer Singh, ACP (Udyog Vihar), said, “Based on the complaint, the section of murder has been added to the FIR. We are waiting for the report to confirm the cause of death. The main accused has been arrested and we are questioning him.”
 
 Paramjit Singh Oberoi, a member of the Rotary school management, said the student was admitted in Class IV two years ago under the EWS quota as his mother had claimed she was a single parent. “This year, the school decided not to promote him to Class VI as the boy seemed unable to study in an English medium school. So, we had requested the mother to admit him to another school before this session. But soon, the school employees and management members started receiving threat calls from the mother and other family members of the student,” he alleged.
 
 “The mother also filed several complaints at the district education office and CM window. During meetings with different authorities on the issue, our finance officer Tarun Pandey accompanied principal Sandeepa Rai and became a target of the student’s family,” Oberoi claimed.
 
 
