GONDA: Desperate to carry his father’s legacy forward, 32-year-old Prateek Singh will face a tough fight in his pocket borough on Monday when electorate steps out to decide who will be their next MLA. Though his father Braj Bhushan Sharan Singh, a five-time MP has a lot to his credit, Prateek’s election campaign remained focused on Narendra Modi.

 On Friday, the last day of campaigning, a pamphlet was distributed on Prateek’s in the folds of daily newspapers. ‘Prateek Bhushan ko vijayi banane ke liye Kamal ke samne waala neela button dabane par pee ki awaaz sunai degi, tab aapka mat Narendra Modi ko pad jayega (To elect Prateek press the button opposit   symbol lotus on the voting machine. You will hear a long beep which will mean you have voted for Narendra Modi).
 
 There is a reason why Prateek is invoking Modi in the local elections. The biggest threat to him comes in the form of Jaleel Khan (56), the   candidate who fought independently last time in 2012 when Mayawati denied him the ticket. Nonetheless, Jaleel managed to poll 24,000 votes (14.37%).
 
 At a tea stall located in Awas Vikas colony, an upmarket area in   city, a local resident Jeetendra Singh said, “Jaleel has a lot of public support. Last time he did exceptionally well as independent. Muslims account for more than 35% voters in Gonda Sadar and will surely vote for Jaleel.”
 
 A lot is also riding on Suraj Singh (36), the Samajwadi Party candidate and nephew of sitting   MLA from Gonda, Vinod Kumar alias Pandit Singh. Shifting out of Gonda, cabinet minister Pandit Singh is contesting from neighbouring Tarabganj. As Suraj managed his uncle’s work in the constituency when he remained away in Lucknow, he was able to forge good equation with local residents. Suraj also highlights how he has installed multiple air coolers in all the popular temples in Gonda city.
 
 “But Pandit Singh did not help when properties were set afire last year in the clash during Ganpati Visarjan,” said Rohit Dubey, a young graduate referring to riots that broke out in September last year in Chowk area. 
 
 Presence of Shiv Sena candidate Mahesh Narayan Tiwari (61) and independent candidate Nirmal Srivastava (42) has complicated the battle further. Tiwari had fought on BJP ticket in 2012 and secured 28% votes. Nirmal is chairman of Gonda Nagar Palika. Both of them stood by a group of shopkeepers in September last year during the clashes. As Brahmins and Thakurs have remained involved in battle of dominance in Gonda for several decades, Tiwari is asking the former to vote for him and is likely to dent Prateek’s prospects. 
 
 BJP had won Gonda Sadar seat 24 years back in 1993 after Babri Masjid was demolished. Understanding the road ahead is bumpy, MBA graduate from Melbourne, Prateek is leaving nothing to chance. He is invoking Modi’s name and schemes during campaigning.
 
 An accused in Babri Masjid demolition case BJP Lok Sabha MP from Kaiserganj, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh owns 54 educational institutes in Gonda, Balrampur, Bahraich, Faizabad and Shravasti districts. Political rivals are highlighting Sharan’s tainted past which includes sheltering Dawood gang members in 1992. But he was acquitted by court. “Everybody knows about Braj Bhushan’s past. He has not done anything for Gonda,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, a close aide of SP candidate Suraj. 
 
 Meanwhile, resident of Bishnupuri locality, Atul is supporting BJP candidate Prateek. “People are scared of goondaraaj in Gonda and have decided to banish the party this time. We are fighting against BSP not SP,” he said.
 
 
