THANE:   who have been eagerly awaiting the inauguration of the first-of-its-kind biodiversity park in Saket will again be disappointed as the project is nowhere near completion.

 The park was scheduled to be thrown open to the public by this month. However, a PWD engineer in charge of the project assured the work would be completed in April.
 
 Last year, the social forestry department in collaboration with the then collector Ashwini Joshi initiated the 5.26-hectare biodiversity park project in order to beautify the dumping areas along the Thane creek. It was also meant to provide citizens with a space for recreation, to enjoy the nature and create awareness about the need to conserve the Thane creek belt.
 
 Although the work on the gardens has been already completed, the park cannot be opened to people without the basic facilities, including the toilet block, the administration office, the seating arrangements, the nature information centre. The work for these had been entrusted to the PWD in March 2016.
 
 “Of the budget of Rs 2.50 crore designated for the park, Rs 1.73 crore has been given to the PWD. We were supposed to finish all the work by this March, but close to 60% of the construction is still pending. With less than a week to the deadline, the department is yet to complete several components essential for the opening of the park,” said an official from the state forest department.
 
 PWD officials, meanwhile, assert that they have added new workforce to finish the work as soon as possible.
 
 J Gangurde, PWD executive engineer, said, “The work has been delayed a bit because of the late monsoons. We have added a few labourers who are working long hours. The new collector, Mahendra Kalyankar, also visited the site a few days ago to check out the progress of our work. We will try to finish as much as possible by March 31. The project has to and will be over by April.”
 
 Certain changes to be made to the park’s boundary to make way for a flyover has also pushed the date of the project’s completion, he said.
 
 The drainage water purification plant set up at the park by NEERI needs a strong electricity supply for which a new connection has been sought from MSEDCL. “However, we cannot set the underground electric wires without an idea of how much of the park’s area has to be given up for the new flyover coming here,” said Satish Phale, deputy director, social forestry department.
 
