Nagpur: Armed policemen were deployed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) for the first time on Saturday. This was the immediate result of the strike through a mass casual leave taken by members of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors.  The five-day strike was called off on Saturday night after representatives of all medical colleges held a meeting with the state medical education minister Girish Mahajan in Mumbai. The minister immediately gave directions for the implementation of steps to increase security at all GMCs. The doctors resumed duties at 7.30am on Saturday. DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare too attended the meeting. Dr Dinesh Sharma, who represented GMCH Nagpur, told TOI that the minister has assured that apart from posting armed guards, an alarm system will be installed at various spots inside the hospital and a pass system for entry implemented at the earliest. IGMCH medical superintendent Dr S P Manjrekar said that six policemen have been deployed. “Two each will be at casualty and front gate, while the other two will be patrolling the hospital premise and buildings. A pass system already exists at our new 250-bed hospital. The government has a plan to introduce it right at the front gate,” she said.  At the GMCH some “10-12 guards have been posted” according to medical superintendent Dr Jagdish Hedao. “Though a pass system exists, it is not being followed due to the negligence of the existing security guards,” he said. After the strike was called off, the resident doctors of both the government hospitals resumed duties at 7.30am on Saturday. Some said the strike went on for five days only because of lack of communication with Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. “On Friday, when all the representatives of the medical colleges teamed up to meet the CM, the members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) too came along. But for the meeting only IMA members were called into the room while resident doctors were stopped,” said a resident from GMCH. The doctor went on to add: “None of us were representing MARD so our identity was questioned. The demand for security movement was started by resident doctors for their own safety and we never asked IMA to join us. They had called off the strike on their own. But in front of the CM, the IMA made it appear as if it was their fight. After the meeting, the IMA informed the residents that the CM has agreed to all their demands.” The resident doctors were not prepared to call off the strike based on IMA’s meeting with the CM. “How do we know that they had placed our demands in front of Fadnavis? Hence, till evening we refused to end the strike even though IMA had called it off. After waiting for five hours, Mahajan agreed to meet us and soon agreed to our demands. Hence we called off the strike on Saturday night,” the resident doctor said.