HYDERABAD: Obesity has now got a new definition. It is not a just something related to overeating, extra pounds of fat or genetics. Obesity is now defined as a chronic, relapsing disease.
As the   (WOF) earlier this week confirmed its support for defining obesity as a chronic relapsing disease, doctors in Hyderabad warn that since obesity is a chronic ailment, the burden of ill health simply increases as time passes by .
 
 According to city doctors, the earlier one stands up to tackle obesity, the better the results. The WOF in a statement published in the May 10 issue of the scientific journal,  , said obesity fits the epidemiological model of a disease process except that the toxic or pathological agent is diet-related rather than a microbe. Welcoming the new definition, local doctors warned that obesity is the cause of all bad diseases including high blood pressure, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia (high cholesterol) and cancers. 
 
 It is also linked to problems like sleep apnoea, joint pains and infertility. Dr Tapas Mishra, senior consultant and advanced laparoscopic bariatric surgeon,  ,  , told TOI that the WOF definition has come as a ray of hope for the obese. “Unfortunately in this digital age when most of us are at our intelligent best, having coolest gadgets, places to eat mouthwatering dishes, best vehicles and modes of transportation, we did not realize all these have a side effect too. This generation is eating more variety of food (less healthy and extra calories), traveling more (walking less, no time to exercise), watching more TV movies (playing less) suffering from diseases like diabetes, hypertension, and high blood cholesterol in early life compared to their elders,“ he added.
 
 India has the third largest population of obese people but when it comes to the gross domestic product (GDP), the country stands at 144. “This is a mismatch. Obesity has arrived with all its buddies (co morbidity) and the sooner we accept that it is a disease we will freely discuss with the health care provider concerned for a solution,“ Dr Tapas said.
 
 The new definition makes it clear that obesity should no longer be viewed as an after effect of lazi ness, gluttony , bad lifestyle or any curse, said Dr  , critical care specialist, Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills.
 
 “As obesity has a genetic predisposition, impairs bodily functions and decreases life expectancy it easily qualifies to be called a disease rather than only a lifestyle-related problem. Physicians must learn to categorize obesity and individual patient risks and tailor therapy in the form of medical weight loss programme or surgery ,“ Dr   suggested.
 
 Senior laparoscopic and bariatric surgeon Dr Rajneesh C Reddy said obesity is a disease. “Obesity is generally caused by eating too much and moving too little. If you consume high amounts of energy , particularly fat and sugars, but don't burn them through physical activity , much of the surplus energy is stored by the body as fat,“ he added.
 
