Kolkata: A section of the   is pitching for a “sporting choice” for one of the   seats that the party will have to fill up next month. Senior Trinamool leaders say the two names that are doing the rounds are those of former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly and former India football captain Bhaichung Bhutia.

 Chief minister   is likely to meet the party’s core committee on Friday to firm up the names of five candidates for the June 8 polls. Six RS members from Bengal, including four from the Trinamool, are due to retire from the Upper House on August 18. The poll has been brought forward because of the presidential polls and the numbers that the Trinamool has in the state legislature gives it an opportunity to send five members to the RS (out of the six from Bengal).
 
 A senior MP said Ganguly had already been sounded out but the Cricket Association of Bengal president remained non-committal. He told TOI from Sydney on Thursday: “I am in Australia at the moment and am unaware of any such development. Hence, I cannot comment on this issue.” Ganguly’s CAB term ends in July.
 
 Banerjee may renominate the party’s RS leader, Derek O’Brien, the party’s deputy leader, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, and its trade wing state president Dola Sen. That leaves her with room to nominate two more. “We believe she will nominate a prominent national-level sportsperson for the fourth slot and the fifth is likely to go to a politician,” the MP said.
 
 “The CM may or may not formally announce the names of the five candidates at the core committee meeting itself. The last date of nomination is May 28, giving her a week to decide. But, since she is leaving for Delhi mid-week, we expect the announcement may be made before that,” a party leader said.
 
 The MP, who claimed to have spoken to Ganguly a few weeks back, said: “He (Ganguly) wants to remain in cricket administration. He is enjoying his CAB stint and feels an active political role may turn to be an impediment for him in the longer run. Given the apex court and subsequent Lodha Committee recommendations, politician-turned-cricket administrators are taking a backseat.”
 
 Given all these complications, Bhutia could be a far easier choice for the party. Bhutia has already contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Darjeeling and was the Trinamool candidate from Siliguri in the 2016 assembly polls.
 
 He lost both times but senior leaders said his grit and determination had the Trinamool leadership, including the chief minister herself, impressed. The party’s better-than-expected municipal poll results in the Hills have also stoked expectations that it may send a local to the Parliament to effectively counter the GJM’s aggressive Gorkhaland posturing. Bhutia remained unavailable for comment.
 
 Trinamool insiders said former bureaucrat Debabrata Bandyopadhyay may not be nominated again. “The senior MP is in his mid-80s and is ailing. He has been informally conveyed the party decision,” a party MP claimed. It was Bandyopadhyay’s seat that was most likely to be replaced by a sportsperson, insiders said.
 
 The party’s stellar show in the 2016 assembly polls gives it a chance to send one more member to the RS, effectively making it the fourth-largest party in the Upper House. The opposition can safely send one MP to the RS, where it now has the Congress’s Pradip Bhattacharya and the CPM’s Sitaram Yechury.
 
 
