CHENNAI: Chief minister   on Friday gave a clean chit to police in the incident of police assault on agitators including   recently and said it had now become “fashionable“ for women and children to take part in protests.

  Police could not be faulted for discharging their duty of ensuring law and order, he said. He was responding to Congress legislature party leader K R Ramasamy's charge in the assembly that police were unleashing violence against people indulging in protests. “It is due to the failure of the government in resolving issues concerning public that they resort to agitations, resulting in breakdown of law and order. 
 
 The government should make its policy on liquor shops clear,“ said Ramasamy . State power and pro hibition minister   intervened to say there was no change in government's policy to work towards total prohibition.But it could be implemented only in phases, he said. Ramasamy's response was a query as to why then police attacked women demanding closure of liquor shops.
 
 Palaniswami said, “Police followed rules while dispersing the crowd in Tirupur and they are not at fault. Only the video of a policeman slapping a woman has been shown by TV channels. The policeman was trying to res cue an MLA who was held hostage by the people“.
 
 Ramasamy also charged the state gov ernment with not doing enough to stop the hy drocarbon project in the Cauvery delta. “If the state government is committed to stop the project, why is the Cen tre floating tenders for the project,“ asked Ra masamy .
 
 “State government must specify clearly what its stand is on the hydrocarbon project The protests by villagers are continuing for more than three months, but no solution has been found yet. The state gov ernment must exert enough pressure to force the Centre drop the pro ject,“ said leader of opposition M K Stalin.
 
 Palaniswami said the project was initiated during the UPA government at Centre in which the DMK was a constituent.
 
 “You were very much part of the ruling alliance and had all the powers to stall the project.We are not part of the Central government.Since we are in the opposition, only a certain amount of pressure can be exerted,“ said the chief minister.
 
 He said the   were laid at Kathiramangalam 15 years ago. People protested when officials went there to carry out maintenance work, he said.
 
