WASHINGTON: A 
  on Thursday President Donald Trump’s efforts to reinstate a ban on travel to the US from 
  , setting the stage for an epic — and apex — faceoff between the executive and judiciary over their respective constitutional duties, powers and responsibilities.

 “SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!” the President tweeted in all caps (the online equivalent of shouting) just minutes after the court ruling, and indicating he will take the matter up to the  . He later called it “a disgraceful decision”.
 
 
 
 “It is beyond question that the federal judiciary retains the authority to adjudicate constitutional challenges to executive action,” the court said, upholding Friday’s ruling by a federal district judge who blocked key parts of the travel ban, allowing thousands of foreigners to enter the country.
 
 Trump’s aides and supporters vent their anger at the ruling, arguing that the judiciary should not be secondguessing “sensitive national security decisions” of the President.
 
 Republican Senator Tom Cotton called the San Francisco-based Ninth Circuit, “the most notoriously left-wing court in America and the most reversed court at the Supreme Court”, while expressing confidence that administration’s position “will ultimately prevail”.
 
 Critics laud ruling, Hillary taunts prez
 
 Trump’s critics and those opposed to unbridled executive powers and random travel curbs lauded the ruling. “This was a good day for our system of checks and balances,” said Democratic Senator  , adding, “A president who respected the Constitution’s separation of powers would not have insulted a ‘so- called judge’ he disagreed with or tried to bully a federal appeals court with taunts on Twitter.”
 
  tweeted a short and snarky “3-0”, an apparent reference to the unanimous verdict of the three-judge bench. That in turn invited from a Trump supporter the scalding repartee, “0-2, 2008, 2016”, referring to her two Presidential election defeats.
 
 Others ridiculed the President for saying “see you in court” even though he had lost twice in court. The partisanship over the issue is expected to heighten in the coming weeks as the Trump administration weighs taking the issue up to the Supreme Court. 
 
 But the apex court is currently deadlocked at 4-4 between liberal and conservative judges, and legal experts say in the event of a tie, the ruling of the appeals court will stand.
 
 Compounding the problem, Trump’s nominee for the vacant ninth slot, 
  , has reportedly expressed disapproval of Trump’s attacks against the judiciary. Trump and his aides have disputed such reports, but the account has been confirmed by lawmakers and staffers, who are now being dubbed   lackeys by the new regime. 
 
 The same charge surrounds other leaks from the Trump White House, including accounts of the 
  in which he reportedly asked aides mid-conversation for explanation about the new START agreement before denouncing it as bad for the US.
 
 Trump supporters maintain the leaks are concerted attempts to delegitimise the President by the entrenched liberal layovers from the Obama years.
 
