MOTIHARI: At least 24 people, including  ,   of a closed   and policemen were injured in   outside   on Monday. The violence erupted after two employees of the mill tried to immolate themselves.
 
  Police sources said workers of the mill and farmers were protesting in front of the main gate of the unit for the last three days. They had threatened to immolate themselves if their pending salaries were not released. Local farmers had also joined the agitation, demanding immediate payment of their dues.
  
  “Two workers – Naresh Srivastava and Suraj Baitha – tried to immolate themselves in the morning. Soon, other workers of the firm and farmers turned violent and started pelting policemen with stones,” said a source, adding the police first caned the agitators and then opened fire to disperse them. Srivastava and Baitha, who sustained 60-70% burn injury, have been sent to Patna Medical College and Hospital for treatment.
  
  Ramchandra Pandit, a worker of the sugar factory and resident of Bara Bariyarpur, has sustained bullet injury.
  
  Defending police action, Motihari SP Jitendra Rana said the policemen fired only three rounds in self-defence as the workers were pelting them with stones. “As soon as a police team led by inspector Vijay Kumar Yadav reached the site, the angry workers started pelting stones at them,” the SP said, adding an FIR has been lodged against the protestors for immolating two workers.
  
  Before leaving for Patna, an injured Baitha said they have been on dharna for the last three days, but to no avail. “We had announced our self-immolation plan two days earlier, but no one intervened. Our salaries have been due since 2002 when the factory was closed. The farmers have also not been paid around Rs 18 crore,” Baitha said, adding the decision to immolate self was their own and no one forced them to take the step.
  
  Manoj Sah, an agitator, said police rouged up a large number of people, including women.
  
  Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi also visited the site in the evening and urged the owners of the sugar factory to reopen the unit.
