NAGPUR: Police might finally crack the mystery behind the death of Pench tiger poaching case accused Mahadeo Chaitram Uikey with the forensic   revealing that he died of  .

 Uikey’s (49) forensic report also states that liquor was found in his viscera samples. According to sources, the report has been dispatched to Parsheoni police and Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH).
 
 Highly placed sources told TOI that as per the chemical analysis of the samples, Uikey is suspected to have died after consuming some insecticide. “Also, there was presence of liquor in the samples,” they said.
 
 Uikey, one of the main accused in the Pench case, was arrested on August 14. He fled from forest custody from Sillari in the wee hours of August 18. On August 26, he was found dead near the roadside under mysterious circumstances, a kilometre away from his native village Dhawlapur in Parsheoni tehsil.
 
 Initial post mortem conducted on Uikey on August 27 at GMCH showed that the body was fresh and it looked to be a natural death. GMCH sources had told TOI that there were no injury or strangulation marks on the body. His X-ray reports too didn’t show any fractures.
 
 The doctors conducting post mortem had found some blackish-brownish solid food material which was likely to be consumed 24 hours ago. The food stuff could not be identified and, hence, Uikey’s viscera was sent to Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Nagpur, for analysis whether it was suspected poisoning.
 
 The doctors too think that during the nine days, Uikey must not have remained without food and must have survived on support by some local villagers.
 
 “If liquor contents have been found along with insecticide, then it is possible that the victim might have committed suicide or must have been offered poison-mixed liquor,” a section of forensic experts, who did not want to be quoted, told TOI.
 
 Uikey’s death has raised a storm with local Congress leaders politicizing the issue and held forest officials responsible for his death. However, now police will have to dig out the truth.
 
 Police too suspect that it may be handiwork of those who were close to Uikey. “We are yet to receive the forensic lab report. We are investigating Uikey’s nine-day trail and will soon zero in on the culprits,” said police officials.
 
 Uikey had links with some tantriks performing black magic in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. He had admitted to having three tiger whiskers, but as he fled these material could not be seized from him.
 
 Investigating forest officials were planning to explore further links but Uikey fled and died, hampering the investigations.
 
