PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation   on Thursday rejected the civic administration’s proposal of offering 5% discount on e-payments of property tax. In order to promote cashless transactions, the administration had proposed a scheme under which the discount would be extended to payments made through digital systems like online or credit cards. Also, five lucky winners in each of the 15 civic wards were to get a cash award of Rs 15,000 through a lucky draw.

 In order to increase revenue, the civic body has implemented a number of schemes. Most of them are amnesty schemes which are aimed at regularising unauthorised constructions. Moreover, to promote information technology in the city, the civic body is giving discount to IT companies. 
 
 “The proposed cashless payment scheme was to benefit the general public at large. Under the scheme, payments had to be made in one go to avail the discount. The system was expected to increase revenue and also make the payments easy using modern technology,”  , head of PMC’s property tax department, said during the general body meeting on Thursday.
 
 Elected members said, “The proposal does not have details about revenue generation or the loss the civic body would suffer after offering the 5% discount. The administration should present the proposal in detail so that a decision can be taken.” 
 
 The city has around 8.3 lakh properties, out of which about 1 lakh are commercial establishments and 7 lakh residential buildings. There are 29,000 open plots, while 14,000 open properties are a mix of commercial and residential. More than 90,000 properties are illegal structures.
 
 Bank transactions hit
 
 Former deputy chief minister   on Thursday said the   was finding it difficult to deal with the day-to-day transactions. “The bank was holding old notes worth more than Rs 500 crore, which are yet to be exchanged. Demonetisation is taking a toll on common citizens, especially people who are depended on agriculture and allied businesses,” he said.
 
 
