So, you have your outfit, shoes and bag all sorted. But have you given a thought to which necklace you should wear? Finding the perfect neck-piece to wear can be daunting because wearing the wrong accessory could mar the beauty of the top you are sporting. Wearing the right   — be it contemporary or traditional — can really uplift your overall appearance. 

 Here are a few things to keep in mind when you are choosing the necklace you want to wear.
 
 V-neck tops 
 Repeating the shape of your neckline is one of the simplest tricks to nail this look. Choosing to wear a v-shaped slim pendant is a good idea. This neckline is perfect to show off your pretty pendants. V-shaped chunky necklaces that draw attention to your cleavage also work. You must make sure that the neck-piece you wear finishes at least an inch above the ‘V’. A simple strand of pearls will also look good and give an understated, classy look. 
 
 Collared shirt
 Usually a slim choker or chain with a small pendant goes well with your collared button-ups.
 You can also pair them with statement necklaces, to get that unbeatable subtle, yet striking, look. 
 
 Strapless dresses or tube tops
 Though chokers are most flattering when worn with strapless outfits, usually all kinds of jewellery complement this timeless neckline. Pair your strapless top with a contemporary choker. The straight cut of the outfit shows off your necklace and also helps give your neck a slender look by elongating it. 
 
 Scoop necks
 There are a variety of necklace styles that complement this neckline. Dramatic multi-strand pearls, stones, crystal necklaces or chokers look great with scooped out necklaces. Contemporary and delicate ‘Y’ necklaces, or ones with stunning pendants also work well with scooped out  . When you are wearing a dress with a scooped out neck, sport a shorter pendant that has volume.
 
 Square-necked outfits
 Multi-strand chokers, dramatic double strand necklaces work nicely with square necked tops. These necklines draw attention to your neck. Angular, geometric neck-pieces 
 compliment the square neck. 
 
 Boat neck dresses and tops
 Long beaded necklaces look great with the boat neckline. This simple neckline draws attention to the neck-piece you will wear.
 
 
 remember
 
 
 
