GURUGRAM: A private hospital in Rajiv Nagar was raided by a health department team led by   for carrying out abortions without adhering to the norms of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act and the Pre-Conception and   (PCPNDT) Act.

 Two doctors have been booked and the hospital in-charge arrested by the police for not maintaining proper records and not disposing bio-medical waste properly.
 
 Acting on an anonymous phone call, the team which consisted of the district drugs control officer, went to Apple Hospital on Sunday and found a patient who had just undergone an abortion. 
 
 When asked for documents, deputy civil surgeon Neelam Thapar said, hospital in-charge and ultrasonologist Dr Vijay Kumar Sharma could not provide the ultrasound report and form F of the patient whose surgery had just been concluded. He could neither give the team the operative notes of the procedure, which is mandatory in such cases.
 
 The doctors at the hospital also could not produce indoor patient record entries, operation theatre records or signatures of doctors in admission file. “These doctors would carry out ultrasound but did not fill form F in all cases where the doctor is required to fill one up right after finding out a patient is pregnant,” Dr Thapar said.
 
 Later, when the team members started looking around, they came across pieces of placenta and fetal parts in a red bag placed in a bucket, including bones, liver and eyes. “This was a violation of waste disposal rules, which require these to be in a yellow bag instead,” Thapar said.
 
 When Dr Sharma was asked to explain this, he told the health department team said those were “remnants” of a another patient, who was 12 weeks pregnant with a disorder. 
 
 An FIR has been registered against Dr Vijay Kumar Sharma and Dr Sonam Sharma, who had carried out the abortions, under sections 312 (causing miscarriage), 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) of the IPC, sections 4 and 5 of the  , and Section 23 of the PNDT Act. Dr Vijay Kumar Sharma has also been arrested.
 
