GAYA: In an apparently bizarre move, the management of Allama Iqbal College-Biharsharif, a deficit grant minority college affiliated to  , has reduced the   of   from 65 years to 62 years. 

 A notification to this effect, issued by College Governing Body secretary Shah Javedi, went viral on Thursday, drawing strong response from the stakeholders.
 
 MU registrar Nalin Kumar Shastri said it was a serious matter and he would be giving the official version after having a discussion with VC Prof Qamar Ahsan.
 
 Sources say the VC has taken serious note of the secretary’s whimsical order that is likely to cause avoidable confusion and turmoil. It was a blatant violation of the provisions of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 and Article 14 of the Constitution that guarantees equal treatment to similarly placed persons.
 
 It would be chaotic if individual colleges were given the liberty to unilaterally alter the service conditions of the employees, says M G College-Gaya principal Khurshid Ahmad Khan. Teacher in one MU college retiring at 62 and those serving in the other 44 constituent and three deficit-grant minority colleges retiring at 65, was simply an anachronism, Khan added.
 
 The notification issued by the college secretary referred to Union HRD ministry’s letter dated August 17, 2012. The five- year-old letter gives freedom to state governments to take a decision on the retirement age of teachers working in state universities and fixing the retirement age at 65 would not be binding on the state governments, said the letter.
 
 Strongly objecting to the move of Biharsharif college management, Federation of University Teachers Association of Bihar (Futab)’s working president Kanhaiya Bahadur said the college management was duty bound to follow the provisions of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 and it was for the government to take action against those who violate the rules. The Futab fully stood behind the teachers of  , said Kanhaiya Bahadur.
 
 According to Rizwan Kausar, former member of the Governing Body of M G College-Gaya, the fact that the said college was a minority college did not give the management the right to violate rules. The Constitution has given minority institutions the right to manage, and not the right to “mismanage”.
 
 Minority college management too can be prosecuted for violating rules, said Kauser. On several occasions, the SC has ruled that the right given to the minorities to manage educational institutions on their own was not absolute and it has to be within the ambit of the rules, he added.
 
 Attempts to contact Allama Iqbal College secretary Shah Javedi proved futile as Shah did not pick up the calls made by this correspondent.
 
 
