MUMBAI: There is barely a farm in India without a woman on it. In fact many jobs including preparing the field, sowing and transplanting saplings are overwhelmingly done by women.

 Yet only 5.5% of the 8,007 farmer suicides recorded by the   (NCRB) are by women farmers. The NCRB's latest data for 2015 records 7,566 suicides by male and 441suicides by women farmers and cultivators. Even among agricultural labourers, the NCRB records 4,018 suicides by men and 577 by women. Women account for only 12.5% of the 4,595 suicide victims among agricultural labourers in India, according to the NCRB.
 
 Critics say this is a drastic under-count, stemming from the fact that most statistics do not sufficiently recognize women as farmers or reflect the number of women engaged in farming in the country .
 
 "In the National Sample Survey (NSS), women farmers are typically classified as "unpaid helpers in the family enterprise," says Jayati Ghosh, economics professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University . There is also another category in NSS data for those not even considered to be in the farm labour force, known as Code 93. "This includes those mainly engaged in domestic duties but also involved in other activities like fetching fuel, raising livestock as well as cultivating a vegetable patch on their own land," she says. The number of women listed in this category has increased in recent surveys, Ghosh points out.
 
 NCRB data is even more limited because police stations that compile the number of suicides look for legal proof before aknowledging that the victim was a farmer, says Ghosh.
 
 The lack of legal rights on land poses a major hindrance in recording women involved in farm work. "This includes a land title or tenancy agreement in the person's name and most women involved in farming do not have these," she points out. Suicides by women farmers are less common but not that unusual, says Kishor Tiwari of  . "They don't get recorded because women are often landless or the land is not in their name. In some cases, the families themselves don't reveal it is a suicide, fearing social stigma," says Tiwari.
 
