BENGALURU: Several batches of 130mm ammunition—used in M46 long range medium guns designed to fight off artillery and tanks—are lying in Ordnance factories, thanks to non-delivery of 28,603 special steel containers meant to transport these items to field deployments or army depots. 

 While the issue, on the one hand raises concerns of accidents such as the May 31, 2016 Central Ammunition Depot (CAD), Pulgaon, fire, on the other, it is keeping the items from reaching field deployments for which it is meant.
 
 The  , which cost the exchequer Rs 8 crore, had left 19 people dead and injured 17. According to the Court of Inquiry, the most probable cause of the incident was “excessive bleeding of TNT reacting with metallic container leading to self-ignition (spontaneous combustion) of segregated Mine Anti Tank held in the store house.”
 
 Documents in TOI’s possession show that the orders placed for 24,790 “C 53-A (steel) Containers” meant for  , on February 29, 2016, with three private firms— two from Hingna Industrial Area near Nagpur and one from Nagpur, all in Maharashtra— have not seen any delivery. These orders were placed by Ordnance Factory (OF) Chanda, a high calibre ammunition manufacturing unit.
 
 Out of the three firms, the firm from Nagpur had received an order for 12,395 boxes, while the other two were to deliver 7,437 and 4,958 containers. While the first firm had to complete delivery by August 31, 2016, the second and the third firm were to complete it by December 31, 2016 and November 30, 2016, respectively.
 
 As of February 28, 2017, not a single container from these firms have reached OF, Chanda. Sources familiar with the developments said: “One of the firms has, in fact, said it cannot deliver the boxes as steel prices have gone up.”
 
 While these are orders from more than a year ago, another 3,813 boxes from three other private firms, two from Madhya Pradesh and one from Haryana, are pending delivery from orders placed as early as December 2014—taking the total undelivered boxes to 28,603.
 Official Response
 
 A senior official at OF, Chanda, requesting anonymity, said: “These things happen when something new has to be developed by anybody. It is nothing new, even our sister establishments would have faced similar issues.”
 
 However, sources in the Director General of Quality Assurance (DGQA), said: “If concern over quality is one issue, temptations of private firms working for profit wanting to negotiate fresh deals, as one of the firms has done citing steel prices, is another concern. We must be careful when we depend on the industry for critical items such as these.” Sources added that the situation in several other factories are similar with firms unable to deliver the boxes.
 
 All ammo boxes to be made by Pvt firms from August
 
 Come August 2017, and four ordnance factories manufacturing ammunition boxes of all types will stop producing these containers, orders to make all of which will henceforth be given to the private industry.
 
 The decision to this effect was taken after a meeting with secretary, defence production, on August 3, 2016. “It has been decided to discontinue production of ammunition boxes, which is a non-core activity at GIF (Grey Iron Foundry), GCF (Gun Carriage Factory), OEFC (Ordnance Equipment Factory) and MSF (Metal and Steel Factory),” a circular from S Chatterjee, deputy director general, ammunitions, quoting the meeting, read.
 
 Stating that alternate source for these boxes need to be established on priority, it read: “As decided, the production of boxes in these factories will be stopped by August 2017.”
 
 If the demand for boxes from two factories is any indication, then the private industry has a good opportunity, even as sources from within say the move may turn disastrous.
 
 Documents obtained from OF, Chanda shows demand for 1.3 lakh boxes for just the 130mm ammunition, Gun Carriage Factory, Jabalpur requires 3.5 lakh boxes only for 2017-18 to transport 13 different types of ammunition.
 
 
