PUNE: Erring electoral registration officers (ERO) may be suspended or face a departmental inquiry under the Maharashtra   Rules if there are complaints from people about their names not appearing in the compiled voters’ lists, the state election commission has said. 

 The commission has taken a written “statement of responsibility” from the EROs on the preparedness ahead of voting for the elections in 10 municipal corporations and 25 zilla parishads in the state in February. 
 
 State election commission officials said it was necessary for EROs to take cognizance of each application for addition, deletion or correction of voters’ names or other details. There have been several cases in the past of chaos on voting day as people’s names have gone missing from the electoral lists.
 
 State election commissioner J S Saharia told TOI it was necessary to take due care as several issues concerning voters’ lists came up during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 “We have told the EROs to submit a written statement to the district collectors that all care has been taken while getting the electoral rolls ready and that addition or deletion of voters’ names or effecting changes in addresses has been done after due checks with the voters themselves. We wanted a clean roll and the respective divisional commissioners, district collectors and municipal commissioners were told to get the assurance from the EROs,” Saharia said.
 
 The Pune collectorate has received statements from all 21 EROs in the district on the election preparedness and checking of voters’ lists.
 
 District collector Saurabh Rao told TOI, “The EROs were told that no omission, deletion or addition was to be done without the knowledge of the voters. Names and spellings were to be checked for updating the electoral roll. If names were being deleted, a corresponding explanation had to be given. The EROs have readied the list and a report has been submitted to the divisional commissioner. The reports were checked at least thrice by the EROs before they gave the assurance.”
 
 The   had launched the revision of electoral rolls across the country from September 16 to October 21, 2016 considering January 1, 2017 as the qualifying date for new voters. The revised list was published on January 5. The draft roll was opened for corrections like switching names from one panel to another.
 
 
