BHOPAL: The ‘international’ tag on Raja Bhoj International Airport, Bhopal remains only on paper. Forget international flights (barring limited Haj flights), even domestic operators are finding the sector non-lucrative.

 When   (AAI) embarked on modernization of airports of Tier-II cities and a new terminal building of   was being built, it was billed as a state-of-the-art airport that would connect the heart of India with major Indian cities and even get international status.
 
 Six years after the construction of the new airport terminal, flight operations are far and few. The infrastructure which was created to make it an international airport is unused.
 
 The new integrated terminal building worth Rs 135 crore was inaugurated on June 28, 2011 by the then Union Civil Aviation minister, Vayalar Ravi. The government had given 400 acres of land for the construction of international terminal. The terminal building is built over an area of 26,936 square metres.
 
 In fact, the domestic connectivity has dipped and the only cities which is connected by air from Bhopal is Delhi, Mumbai and now, Lucknow.
 
 Airport officials claim infrastructure at the new terminal is update and as good as any international airport. “There is everything — except airlines. God knows when they will come. We are hoping that things will improve,” said another official.
 
 Member of Parliament from Bhopal Alok Sanjar said, “I have been raising the issue of giving status of international to Bhopal airport. However, the biggest issue is lack of flights. My immediate concern is to get more airlines operate from here.” 
 
 He added: “Things will gradually improve. Whether the airport will be an international or not I can’t comment. I will keep raising the issue in the parliament in future too.” 
 
  manager (MP and Chhattisgarh), Vishrut Acharya said as per the available infrastructure Bhopal airport has every infrastructure in place to be an international airport.
 
 Air India sources said, the company already grappling with crisis amid talks of privatization is unlikely to introduce new flights and destinations from Bhopal soon. “ATR connectivity may be increased from Bhopal but not the bigger aircraft,” said Air India officials. In order to improve the situation the authorities are in talk with airlines to at least fly ATRs from Bhopal airport.
 
 
