(Cleared/ Gopa)

 Madurai: The percentage of disability that a person suffers in an accident and his loss of earning power cannot go together and have to be assessed independently based on evidence while settling claims, the   of Madras high court has ruled. On these grounds, the court reduced the compensation awarded to a petitioner, whose right leg had to be amputated from the knee, by Rs 50,000 to Rs 49.14 lakh. 
 
 According to the case, S Reghulal of Tirunelveli worked as secondary grade teacher at Nagaland Police Central School. On March 14, 2002 he was riding his motorcycle on the Kohima - Dimapur main road when a tanker lorry insured with the National Insurance Company knocked him down. The accident resulted in the amputation of his right leg knee down. Since then, he has been unable to pursue his profession and his future prospects also looked bleak. He moved the motor accidents claim tribunal in Tirunelveli seeking Rs 1 crore as compensation which in turn awarded him Rs 49.67 lakh on April 8, 2014. 
 
 Seeking to enhance the compensation, the accident victim filed an appeal in 2015 while the insurance company countered it with an appeal to reduce the compensation the next year. The company said that the percentage of disability and loss of earning power must be assessed independently which the tribunal had not done. 
 
 The company further contended that as per the Workmen Compensation Act, 1923, only 60% of permanent disability can be fixed for amputating the right leg below knee. But, the doctor had assessed the permanent disability to be 94%. The division bench of justices R Subbiah and J Nishabanu said “As per the Supreme Court decision, it is clear that the loss of earning capacity ought to have been ascertained by the Tribunal based on the evidences. But, in the instant case, the motor accidents claim tribunal, Tirunelveli, has not done so. Instead, it has taken the percentage disability suffered by the victim as loss of earning capacity, made the calculation and awarded compensation.” Hence the bench reduced the compensation awarded to Reghulal to Rs 49.14 lakh from Rs 49. 67 lakh.
 
 
