CHENNAI:   – Madras is the second best institution in the country and the best among engineering institutions in the national institutional ranking framework (NIRF) released by the Union minister for human resource and development   on Monday. Anna University, Chennai finished 13th in the overall ranking and is sixth among engineering institutions.

 This is the first time that the Union ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has made it mandatory for all higher educational institutions in the country to take part in the annual ranking process. In the overall category, IIT-M stood second behind Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.
 
 IIT-M director, Prof Bhaskar Ramamurthy, attributed the rank to the objectives of the ‘Strategic Plan 2020'. "The plan spells out quantified targets for all key pillars. These include flexible curriculum, increase in faculty strength, research programme that increases publication quality and count, strong industry-academia collaboration epitomised by research park, a startup ecosystem with 100 companies being incubated currently, an expanding programme of collaborations and student exchanges with leading global universities, and an impressive placement record," he said.
 
 Anna University was placed sixth among universities and 13th in the overall category. "Anna University was awarded the status of university with potential for excellence by the UGC. The university aims to reach greater heights through continued programmes in academics and research and strengthen its collaborations with national and international agencies," said registrar S Ganesan.
 
 Coimbatore-based Amrita University was ranked ninth in the university category. "It is a great feeling to reach the top of the ranking," said vice-chancellor of Amrita University P Venkat Rangan. "This is a testament to the academic excellence and outstanding faculty that the university is known. We maintain a staff-student ratio of 1:10," he said. Amrita was also ranked the best private deemed university in India in the QS Rankings and Times   Rankings. 
 
 SASTRA University, Thanjavur has been ranked in all the categories of the NIRF Rankings. It has been ranked 50/724 in the overall category, 32/232 among universities, 25/1007 in engineering and 44/542 in management. "This is a significant improvement when compared to the 2016 rankings. The management acknowledges the support and encouragement of Government of India, MHRD, funding agencies, corporates, parents, students and well-wishers," said the dean of planning and development, S Vaidhyasubramaniam.
 
