PUDUCHERRY: Just 45 of the 140 students, who were called by the Centralised admission committee (Centac) for counselling for admissions into postgraduate medical courses offered by the lone government medical college,   and  , appeared on May 4. Forty-one of them were   in the colleges.

  A majority of the students (95) did not appear for counselling as the government has not fixed the fees for the postgraduate medical programmes in private colleges. The fees committee constituted by the government has not submitted its recommendations on fee structures in the private colleges.
 
  Centac has sent call letters to another 127 students to appear for counselling on the second and final day of the first round of counselling on May 5.
 
  Meanwhile, all private medical colleges and deemed universities have declared that they will not surrender 50% of their postgraduate seats to the government. Mahatma Gandhi medical college and research institute and Sri Venkateswara medical college claimed that as they fall under the category of ‘linguistic minority’ institutions they need not surrender seats to the government. Pondicherry institute of medical sciences declared that as it falls under religious minority category it will not surrender seats to the government.   medical college too refused to surrender 50% seats under government quota.
 
  Director (health and family welfare services) K V Raman, who confirmed that the directorate has received such communications from the private medical colleges and deemed universities, said the government will implement the directions of the Union government on admission of students in postgraduate medical programmes.
 
  “We have uploaded the seat matrix on Centac website. Private colleges and deemed universities refusing to surrender seats will face action sooner or later. We will implement the Centre’s direction on admission issue. There are a few issues pending before the court. We are closely monitoring the developments,” said Raman.
 
  Pondicherry state students and parents welfare association president V Balasubramanian charged that the government failed to initiate any stringent action against the private medical colleges and deemed universities, who have not surrendered 50% of the postgraduate and undergraduate medical and dental seats every year, since their inception.
 
  AIADMK (Amma) legislature party leader A Anbazhagan sought the immediate intervention of lt governor Kiran Bedi to ensure fixing of fee structures of postgraduate medical and dental programmes in private colleges at the earliest.
 
