MAJITHA (AMRITSAR): Congress vice-president   on Friday finally announced Captain   as the chief ministerial candidate of the party in Punjab and said that only a Punjabi can be the chief minister of the state. With barely a week left for voting, Rahul played the 'son of the soil' card for Amarinder and tried to project AAP as a party of outsiders trying to wrest control of the state from Punjabis.

 Taking on Kejriwal & Co, Rahul said AAP's entire top leadership was made up of non-Punjabis while Congress had given the reins to local leaders. In the 2012 elections too, Amarinder was declared as chief ministerial face at the eleventh hour which had led to some heartburn in the party.
 
 “A Punjabi will be the CM of Punjab, he is sitting here among us. Amarinder Singh will be the chief minister of Punjab, he has given his life for Punjab and never made shallow promises,“ Rahul said while addressing a gathering in the Akali bastion of Majitha near Amritsar on Friday. The announcement was greeted with a standing ovation and slogans of “Congress Zindabad“ and “ Ab ki baar Captain sarkar“.
 
 With this, speculation on the issue is expected to end. Kejriwal had consistently claimed that ex-cricketer and former BJP MP   had been inducted into the party to sideline Amarinder and that Sidhu was the real chief ministerial face of the party. Immediately after Rahul made the announcement, Amarinder tweeted, “Humbled and honoured to be Pun bled and honoured to be  ' CM face. Committed to serving my beloved state and bring back the smiles on the faces of Punjabis.“
 
 In his own boisterous style, Sidhu too tweeted, “Aa gaya Punjab da nava CM. Thoko Taali!“ Clad in blue denims, white kurta and sleeveless jacket, Rahul was flanked by Sidhu and Amarinder when he made the announcement.
 
 Hours later, Amarinder challenged Kejriwal to name AAP's CM candidate. Addressing public rallies in Ferozepur and Guru Harsahai constituencies, Amarinder also questioned the credibility of AAP to govern a state for which it is a “complete outsider“.
 
 While taking on AAP in Bathinda, Rahul again projected Amarinder, “We believe in the concept that Punjab is for Punjabis. For Punjabis, a true Punjabi will be our CM but AAP wants some outsider to rule Punjab if it wins.“
 
 He added that AAP's top leadership was from outside Punjab as Kejriwal was from Haryana and its Punjab affairs in charge Sanjay Singh was from Uttar Pradesh. “Punjabis will never tolerate any outsider to rule the state and will not vote for AAP,“ he said.
 
 He also said only Kejriwal's writ ran large in AAP. “In Congress, Amarinder Singh will be our CM, but will not be a dictator like Kejriwal. We will run the state in consultation with the people and party leaders,“ he added.
 
 Quoting Guru Nanak's philosophy of 'Tera Hai' (It's yours), he satirically remarked that Akalis had transformed `Tera Hai' into Mera Hai (It's mine) while referring to the alleged concentration of businesses in the hands of a select few in the state. “If voted to power, Congress government in Punjab would put all drug peddlers and those who had given them shelter behind bars and wipe out 'chitta' trade by formulating stringent laws.“
 
 Claiming that Punjab had been plunged into total destruction and devastation by Akalis, Rahul assured that Congress government would bring back old glory of Punjab but at the same time he told people to not expect results in a short time.
 
