NAGPUR: Jyana ‘Jai’ hi sambhalta yet nahi, tyancha parajai atal asto... Bahutch Jhala Chikhal... Netech Smart, Nagpurchi lagtai wat….

 Those who can’t protect ‘Jai,’ their defeat is certain. There is too mud. Politicians are smart but Nagpur is in the dumps. Now Shiv Sena has come forward for development of Nagpur.
 
 Entry of Tiger in Tiger capital of this country. This party will hunt those involve in corruption and goons. These are lines of Shiv Sena’s poster erected at different localities in the city. 
 
 The party took potshots at its ex-alliance partner BJP, launching a war of verbal volleys through posters ahead of the   elections.
 
 These posters were erected at several prominent squares and alongside major roads like one spotted at Shankar Nagar square.
 
 City party president Satish Harde defended the party’s poster and said that BJP has ruined the city.
 
 Taking a potshot at CM Devendra Fadnavis on his statement of comparing Mumbai with Patna for crimes, he alleged poor law and order situation in CM’s hometown Nagpur. He said the city must be saved from the clutches of the BJP and wondered if the city is on its way to become the ‘crime capital of the world’.
 
 “The Chief Minister and his men (BJP leaders) are eyeing Mumbai and Pune when his hometown Nagpur is in shambles,” he said and added that maintaining law and order is the duty of the home ministry.
 
 However, BJP is going very sober. This party too has erected posters at different squares, but it is promoting various projects either launched by the state government or by the central government. Besides this, through posters, the party is appealing Nagpurians to vote for the party to remain in the NMC for third term.
 
 BJP city president Sudhakar Kohale was not available for comments. The BJP, however, defended chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, saying that the CM does not ‘have a magic wand’. A senior leader said, “Fadnavis has to clean the mess that has been created over 15 years... One cannot expect that everything will change in two years.” 
 
