NAGPUR: For any sportsperson standing on the podium with gold medal in hand and listening to the national anthem is the ultimate thing. On last Sunday, Ritika Thaker experienced the magic moment during the prize distribution function after winning the double crown in the Ivory Coast Future Series International Badminton tournament at Abidjan.

 "It was certainly the most memorable moment for me during the African tour whan the organizers played Indian national anthem during the medal presentation ceremony. It was a special feeling and I will remember it forever. It is a very good beginning for me on the senior international tour," said Ritika while interacting with the media during the press conference here on Friday.
 
 Oozing with confidence, Ritika tackled the media as freely as she tackles her opponents day in and day out on the badminton court. The 16-year-old said beating world No. 86 Hadia Hosny of Egypt in straight games in the semifinal was another highlight of the tour.
 
 "The Egypt player was more experienced and she was the top seed. I had nothing to lose and it was a crucial win for me. After the match I spoke to her in detailed as she is also the coach in Egypt. I asked her what were my mistakes and other things to improve my game," said Ritika, who defeated her regular doubles partner   of Mumbai in the final to claim her maiden women's singles title on her international debut.
 
 The Standard XI student said she is yet to decide on whether she will opt for singles or doubles in future as she is performing well in both.
 
 "Actually I am comfortable in both singles and doubles. I am enjoying both equally right now. I will decide about the specialization in next two years after consulting my coaches   and  . In singles there is a lot of competition compare to doubles," said Ritika, who considers reigning Olympic champion   of Spain as her idol.
 
 A member of the junior Indian badminton team for the last Europe tour, Ritika is hoping to retain her place in the side which will participate in the Junior Asian and Junior World Championship later this year.
 
 She has no plans to shift to professional badminton academy. "I am getting better facilities to train here and I am comfortable here. I am not thinking about moving to Hyderabad or Bangalore," said Ritika.
 
 On the occasion, YMCA general secretary   felicitated Ritika for her outstanding performance.   was also present during the press conference. 
 
 
