BAREILLY: Extreme poverty forced a 14-year-old rape survivor, who gave birth to a child in October last year, to marry her alleged rapist over a month ago. Her father who is struggling to pay a loan of over Rs 20,000 was finding it tough to meet the expenses of the girl and her child, born out of rape, along with eight other family members.
 
  “We had demanded financial aid from the administration to raise the baby but we didn’t get help from anywhere. My father is already under debt as he could not afford the medical expense of the child and the cost of travelling 50 km one way to appear in the court. When village elders proposed marriage, we finally agreed to it as   (the accused) and his family can ensure a better future for my child,” said the girl who claimed that she was happy now.
  
  While the father had earlier claimed she was 14 years old, the Aadhaar card used for the wedding shows her age to be 20.
  
  Advocate V P Dhyani, who is representing the girl’s family in the court, said, “It is poverty that weakens the poor even further. When the administration didn’t take the initiative for her rehabilitation or offered compensation, her family and she lost the courage to pursue the case further. The couple has applied for registration of marriage and when they receive the marriage certificate in a month’s time, they will be produced in the local court to quash the case.”
  
  The girl’s father has entered into a written agreement that if her husband leaves or harasses her in future, they will again move court against him. “Though we were initially against Asif’s marriage to my daughter, the village elders and his family persuaded us that marriage will be best for all. Asif’s family agreed to all our conditions and village elders have agreed in writing that we will again appeal in the court if he or his family deserts or harasses her in future,” said the girl’s father.
  
  He added that following the birth of the child, his two teenage sons had boycotted them for “bringing shame to the family” and it had become difficult to fight with everyone in the village.
 
  Asif’s family had been putting pressure on the girl’s family for marriage ever since an FIR was lodged against him for rape.
  
  “We had made numerous requests to them for marriage but the girl’s family was not ready. However, after they got tired and spent thousands of rupees, they gave their approval. If they had agreed to the marriage earlier, they would have saved time and money for both families,” said  , the alleged rapist’s father.
  
  Asif added, “However, we now want to quash this case soon. We all are happy now.”
  
  The girl’s family learnt about the rape late and lodged an FIR on June 7, 2016. Her medical report stated that she was 19 weeks and six days pregnant at that time. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act did not allow her to terminate her advanced pregnancy and she had moved one court after another.
