Nagpur: Nagpur University is charging Rs 550/per document while providing transcripts to the students, who termed it as “exorbitant” as compared to other universities. A transcript is an official copy of a student’s entire record of undergraduate of postgraduate courses, which s/he had completed successful or unsuccessfully. Every foreign university, particularly in the developed countries like US and UK, seeks official transcript of marks or grades scored by the students while pursuing their UG or PG courses. This document is different from mark-sheets received by the students.  As per usual practice, the parent university sends transcripts in a sealed envelope to foreign universities where the students have applied. Pro-VC Pramod Yeole and Exam controller Neeraj Khaty said they can’t do anything as the charges were fixed by the Management Council about a decade back. A normal student who completed graduation, had to submit at least four documents as transcripts including mark-sheet of first, second and third years along with NU letter. This means s/he ends up paying a total fee of Rs2,200 to NU. For PG students, the fees would be 1,650 for two mark-sheets and letter. After introduction of semester system, now the graduation students have to seek a minimum of seven documents comprising six semester results and NU letter. It means, the students would pay Rs3,850 for getting transcripts. Hardest hit are the engineering and law students, who have to give nine and 11 copies of transcripts to every university, as they appear for eight and ten semester exams during graduation. They pay Rs4,950 and Rs6,050 respectively behind every transcription. “Being an engineering student, I need to submit almost Rs5,000 for one transcript copy. All students usually apply for eight to nine foreign universities from which there is a chance to get admission in one of them, but there is no such guarantee. If I want to apply for ten universities, I need to shell out a whopping amount of Rs50,000,” an upset Bhavesh Mehta, a student of Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering, said. GS College of Commerce student Kshitij Halbe added apart from transcripts cost, they also need to shell out application charges of all institutions they were applying for admissions. “Even after getting admissions, we need to get some scholarship or have to take education loan which puts big burden on our parents. We also need to bear postage charges for dispatching transcripts to the universities abroad,” he said.