AHMEDABAD: The probe against a judge accused of   in the   was quashed by the   on the ground of delay in inquiry by other judges.

 The judge also got the benefit of the laws and guidelines, which came into force much after the woman advocate complained about the alleged harassment.
 
  Gujarat high court last week quashed the inquiry ordered by the high court’s standing committee against senior civil judge Girishkumar Soni into allegations of sexually harassing a woman advocate in Rajkot.
 
 Judge Soni, who is currently a labour court judge in Surendranagar, was posted in Rajkot between January and June 2012. In May 2012, when the Gujarat high court’s chief justice visited Rajkot, a woman lawyer approached him and complained against Soni. 
 
 On her oral complaint, the chief justice immediately asked Rajkot’s principal district judge to send his remarks on the complaint. There was no response and the high court had to remind the Rajkot’s district judge, who recorded statements of three woman advocates and forwarded them to the high court in November 2013.
 
 In February 2014, the high court’s standing committee decided to conduct an inquiry against the judge’s alleged lapse in behaviour. But the charges could not be framed before January 2017. The inquiry began after that. 
 
 The charge levelled against the judge was that during his tenure in Rajkot, whenever the particular woman advocate attended his court, the judge “used to give adjournments to male advocates hurriedly and instructed them to leave the courtroom”. The judge used to ask the woman lawyer to sit in the court and ask her personal questions which would embarrass her. “Thereafter, your harassment towards her increased and you started looking towards her amorously. Thereby, you have sexually harassed her,” the charge memo read.
 
 The judge approached the high court, which has quashed the departmental action against him on several grounds. The main reason the high court has cited for quashing departmental action against the judge is delay in conducting inquiry. Its vigilance department put forth a lame defence that it was overburdened with complaints.
 
 The high court said that the woman lawyer never made a written complaint, which is a must according to provisions of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, and the Gender Sensitisation & Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Regulations-2013. This law came into effect much after the woman lawyer made an oral complaint before the chief justice.
 
 The high court also applied its guidelines issued in 2015 and 2017 for conducting inquiry against any judge in this case. The high court has mandated the complainant to file an affidavit along with the complaint against a judicial officer. Without the affidavit, no complaint should be entertained. In this case, there was no affidavit from the woman lawyer.
 
 
