NAGPUR: The city police on Saturday issued a message urging citizens of   not to spread or believe in rumours. In a message on a social media platform the police said that adequate bundobust has been deployed to thwart more attacks by the serial stabber who has already struck six times in a span of 25 days, with the last two being on January 29. 

 As the cops stepped up vigilance, the serial stabber may have avoided strikes but the rumour mills that have kept the cops chasing a wild goose. In the last couple of days, citizens have gone berserk discussing rumours of four incidents which actually did not take place. 
 
 The first rumour was of a mother-son duo being targeted at Raje Raghuji Nagar which was followed by that of a woman being stabbed at Om Nagar. This led to an impromptu march at Sakkardara police station as cops had a harrowing time tackling angry citizens.
 
 On Saturday, there were two more rumours of women being targeted near Dhanashree lawn at Manewada and another one behind Sai temple at Ayodhya Nagar. 
 
 Zonal DCP Ravindrasingh Pardeshi claimed that no stabbing incidents post January 29 have been reported. “We are verifying every information but nothing has come to fore. Cops are at work on this issue round the clock,” he said. 
 
 As citizens have started panicking presuming a serial stabber is on the prowl, they have started advising their women kin to avoid desolate places after the sunset. It is also reliably learnt that movements of women visiting gardens for evening or post-dinner walks and girls attending tuition classes have been curtailed by their family members as the serial stabbers have targeted such preys. 
 
 BJP corporator   said the women are reeling under fear. “The cops should immediately seek him out,” he said.
 
  and Madhu Patil, both residents of Om Nagar, said the residents are not only scared of the unknown stabber but also plagued by recurring incidents of thefts in their locality. The citizens claimed that they have now cautioned the women at home to be alert and avoid evening activities.
 
 Several squads of the crime branch too have been pressed into action with DCP Ranjan Sharma supervising the strategic actions.
 
