The change in the political equations in   has put a fresh impetus to the politics over the construction of the Ram Mandir. And, this time, it has a Pune connect.
 
  Even as the   (SC) refused an early hearing to a bunch of civil appeals regarding the   temple issue on Friday, huge posters were seen in different parts of UP from the day before, proclaiming that a few Muslim organisations were also rallying forth for the construction of the temple. Some of these posters had the photograph of a city-based  , who has claimed that his picture was used without his consent.
  
  Maulana Shabih Ahsan  , who belongs to the Guruwar Pethbased Reza trust, told 
 “It has been nearly eight to nine months since I visited Lucknow. But all of a sudden, on Thursday, I got a call from some of my wellwishers from Lucknow. They told me they have found my photo on a poster which was in favour of the Ram Mandir’s construction.”
  
  On Friday, Kazmi submitted a complaint application against unidentified persons in the Pune police commissionerate, alleging that some anti-social elements were trying to use his name to play politics over the controversial issue. The poster has several names and photos of Muslim leaders, with a tagline in Hindi saying, 'Ho Janmabhumi par Mandir Nirman, Muslimoka yahi arman' (The Muslims wish for a temple at Ram’s birthplace).
  
  According to Kazmi, soon after these posters cropped up across parts of UP, he has been getting several messages. “Ever since these posters have been installed in UP, I have been getting a lot of calls and messages, even though I am sitting in Pune, oblivious of the whole issue. Some of these are hate messages, while some have welcomed the proclamation on the poster. However, I am in no way connected to the posters,” he asserted.
  
  When 
  asked the Maulana about his views on the construction of the Ram temple, all he said was, “The issue is pending in court, and it is advisable not to comment on it. All of us should wait for the Supreme Court verdict instead.” Kazmi claimed that the installation of such a poster is not only illegal, but may also instigate society, “Some anti-social elements are trying to disturb the peace in society by using names of people like me in controversial issues. These people are only trying to create unnecessary disturbance. I appeal to all the people from every section of society not to pay attention to such false propaganda,” he insisted.
  
  When joint police commissioner Sunil Ramanand was contacted, he said, “When a complaint application is submitted at the police commissionerate, it is designated to the officials concerned. So far, his application has not come to me. I will have to go through his entire application and then only will I be able to comment on the issue.”
