UDHAGAMANDALAM: In the absence of a strong citizen’s forum,   such as  , drainage, roads and   have always been neglected in Ooty town. 

 Concerned about such unaddressed issues, Shobana Chandrasekar, a local resident, has launched an initiative to involve all the stakeholders in the town to come up with solutions. She has formed a volunteer group involving over 31 organisations, which will work under the banner of ‘Namma Ooty’.
 
 The group has decided to clean up one of the worst maintained areas in Ooty. The members will also meet municipal authorities demanding implementation of door-to-door collection of garbage to make the hill town clean.
 
 It began with a couple of meetings with the stakeholders, who turned up in good numbers in the last two days, Shobana told TOI. “As many as 31 associations in Ooty responded to the invite and attended the informal meeting. It had participants from associations of travel agents, maxi cab owners, tourist taxi owners, merchants and the Ooty Jewelers Association. We plan to form a strong forum to find and implement solutions for the problems in Ooty,” she said.
 
 Though several civic issues were discussed in the meeting, the garbage issue received the most attention. “Waste generated from households and hotels is currently not segregate and wet waste ends up in bins. As a result, stray animals are attracted to such places. Though door-to-door collection of garbage is mandatory here, it is not enforced,” she said.
 
 The volunteers of the group, who visited ward I and II located at Finger Post area on Monday, found that workers of Ooty municipality doesn’t reach there. “The areas have not even a single garbage bin. Also, open defecation is the norm, with very few houses having toilets. We found that garbage is thrown into the forest area. Hence, we want to start cleaning work from ward I and II,” Shobana said.
 
 Mass cleaning conducted by the municipality in theses wards once in a while is ineffectual, she said. “Garbage is set on fire, causing generation of toxic smoke. Waste should not be seen as a problem but as a solution. We plan to create wealth from waste,” she added.
 
 Agrees Shadiq Basha, treasurer of the Nilgiri Tourist Taxi Association. “Creating a strong collective to fight for a clean Ooty is a great move. We will extend our full support to the move. More stakeholders, including women self-help groups, should join them to make it stronger,” he said.
 
  The group intends to meet the Ooty municipality officials with a proper proposal soon.
 
