SALEM: Thousands of   participated in the one-day hunger strike organised by OPS faction in  , Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts on Wednesday, seeking an independent probe into the demise of former chief minister  . 

 Mettur MLA S Semmalai headed the hunger strike in Salem district. Addressing the gathering at the district collectorate, he said the people of   would suspect Edappadi K Palaniswamy's government if he failed to order an independent probe into Jayalalithaa's death.
 
 "There is a contradiction in the statements given by AIIMS doctors and Apollo doctors," he said and wondered how it was possible for Amma to speak to her doctors after she was put on a ventilator. He alleged that a few state ministers had lied to the media that Jayalalithaa had taken some food and sweets.
 
 Semmalai also said it was the duty of V K   and her family to reveal who dismissed Dr. Shantharam after he alleged that he found a few medicines in the former chief minister's house that caused her side-effects. "Sasikala should reveal who prescribed those medicines for the Amma," the Mettur MLA said. 
 
 Semmalai also wanted to know where the chief minister's commandos had gone when Jayalalithaa was admitted to the hospital and who removed the CCTV cameras installed at both Poes Garden and Apollo Hospital. "The answers to all these questions would be out when a probe is initiated over Jayalalithaa's death," he said.
 
 More than 8,000 OPS supporters, including former MLAs S K Selvam, M K Selvaraj, Vijayalakshmi Palanisamy, S E Venkatachalam and L Ravichandran, former deputy mayor of Salem M Natesan and other AIADMK cadres participated in the hunger strike .
 
 Former AIADMK minister K P Munusamy headed the strike in Krishnagiri district. He alleged that Sasikala and her family members were responsible for Jayalalithaa's death. "They should come out with proper explanations for several questions surrounding her death," he said. 
 
 Munusamy also said it was the duty of the each and every AIADMK cadre to save the party and the state from Sasikala and her extended family. More than 5,000 OPS supporters and AIADMK cadres participated in the strike in the district.
 
 Likewise, thousands of AIADMK cadres and OPS supporters participated in the hunger strike in Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Erode districts. 
 
 
