Mysuru: Senior Congress leaders on Thursday held a   meeting to pay homage to late minister HS  , even as there are demands to field one of his family members to the bypoll to Gundulpet assembly.

 Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana said the party will welcome any family member if they want to serve the people like him. 
 
 A host of Congress leaders recollected the political growth and services of Prasad to the party in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, and attributed to him the party’s spectacular show of winning all four assembly segments in Chamarajanagar district during 2013 polls. Prasad was then the party’s district unit chief.
 
 The leaders offered floral tributes to Prasad and observed two minutes silence at the condolence meet. They recollected the organizational skills of the leader who was an MLA from Gundulpet for five consecutive terms. He was remembered for his simplicity and discipline in public life.
 
 Recalling his two decades of friendship with Prasad, Dhruvanarayana said the former minister had adopted a disciplined life like his father H N Srikanta Shetty, who was a freedom fighter and Gandhian.
 
 He attributed to Prasad, who served as the Chamarajanagar district minister, many development projects in the backward districts, such as setting up of government medical and engineering colleges, district credit cooperative bank and a separate milk union after bifurcating the Mysuru Milk Union. 
 
 Primary education minister Tanveer Sait, legislators Vasu, H P Manjunath, R Dhramasen, Mysuru Paints and Varnish chief H A Venkatesh, Muda chairman D Dhruvakumar also spoke.
 
 CM thanked for support
 
 Two days after her husband’s death, former minister HS Mahadeva Prasad’s wife MC Mohan Kumari (Geeta) on Thursday thanked CM Siddaramaiah and the political leaders for their support in the hour of crisis. She also expressed her gratitude to the seers and religious leaders.
 
 She issued a statement thanking the CM and his ministerial colleagues for helping the family receive the mortal remains from Chikkamagaluru and for assisting them in conducting the last rites. The funeral was held at Halahalli in Gundulpet taluk on Wednesday.
 
 She said Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and the party’s general secretary in-charge of the state, Digvijaya Singh, called her and offered their condolence.
 
 
