 will win more than three-fourths of seats in western Uttar Pradesh, the party’s state vice-president Suresh Rana told ET’s Aman Sharmain an interview. An accused in 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, Rana is being fielded again from Shamli. Edited excerpts:
 
  
 
  BJP will win at least 55 out of the 71 seats in western UP. In 2012, the extremely backward and backward castes were outside our ambit. Now, owing to Narendra Modi’s policies in the last two-and-ahalf years, these communities are also tilting towards the BJP. The kushasan (misgovernance) of   and BSP’s Muslim-parasti (wooing of Muslims) has led to josh aur jazba (enthusiasm and passion) among people for the BJP.
  
  
 
  The fact is that all the districts of western UP are like Muzaffarnagar and Kairana. Conditions are so bad here – no shopkeeper or trader wants to stay in an area or a village where the proportion or balance of population is not proper, and is migrating out. This exodus has created grave insecurity among people and they feel that the BJP is the only alternative now.
  
  
 
  BJP government in UP will identify the real culprits of Muzaffarnagar riots, including SP leader and minister Azam Khan, and take strictest action against them. We will send Azam Khan to jail. People who were wrongly jailed and booked for Muzaffarnagar riots by the SP will be probed afresh and any innocent framed in wrong cases will get justice and will be released.
  
  
 
  Some people through a plan have tried to create this atmosphere that the Jats have turned against the BJP but this is limited to some leaders and is not true on the ground. All farmers are with the BJP.Thanabhawan in Shamli, my assembly seat where I am campaigning, is Jat-dominated and voters of my caste are very few. On the ground where I am campaigning among the people, I can see that the BJP will get full ashirvaad (blessings) of the Jat community.
  
  
 
  Owaisi’s politics has always been about spreading hatred… in western UP, Owaisi will be doing just the same. 
