NEW DELHI: The   party's Captain   again said today that if he fights from Punjab's   constituency in the upcoming state polls he "will defeat" Parkash Singh Badal, the incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate.

 "This is my last election and I will defeat Badal on his home seat," Amarinder said about the current Punjab chief minister, who filed his nomination papers from Lambi last Thursday.
 
 There has been talk that the Congress party's Amarinder will fight both from Lambi and from his home constituency of Patiala, if the Congress high command lets him. On Saturday, Amarinder said he has already talked to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and vice president   about contesting from Badal's stronghold.
 
 
 
 
 Former Army chief Gen JJ Singh, who's the SAD's candidate in Patiala, reacted to Amarinder's remarks by saying the   chief had fled after deciding he had no chance of beating him.
 
 "He was a year junior to me and I know, he was a lacklustre and an average general," Amarinder said today about the former Army chief.
 
 In a related development, former BJP man Navjot Singh Sidhu yesterday formally joined the Congress despite his well-known differences with Amarinder. 
 
 "No there is no deal behind Sidhu's joining. He himself said his father was in Congress and that it's his 'ghar wapsi' (return home)," Amarinder said today. 
 
 Today, Amarinder also talked about the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue. The Congress Punjab chief , who in November resigned from the Lok Sabha to protest the Supreme Court ordering a status quo on the SYL canal issue, said today that he "won't let one drop of Punjab's water leave the state."
 
 In November, the apex court ordered status quo on land acquired for the construction of the SYL canal's stretch in Punjab. The court order came on a plea by the Haryana government that sought a status quo ante on the acquired land after the Punjab government's decision to denotify the land and restore it to its original owners.
 
 At the time, Amarinder blamed SAD for 'the acute water scarcity' in Punjab. He said chief minister Badal and his team failed to defend Punjab's stand in the court.
 
 "The Akalis let down the people of Punjab on this critical issue, selling off their interests to Haryana," Amarinder said, accusing the Badal government of promoting its vested political interests at the cost of the interests of the state.
 
 
 
 
 
