KOLHAPUR:   in the catchment areas of Satara and Kolhapur districts has filled the Koyna and Radhanagari dams that have crossed 77% and 97% of their water capacity on Saturday afternoon.

 This is the first monsoon when the   in Satara district has crossed 77% of its capacity. The situation is critical in Raghanagari dam, which is almost 97% full. 
 
 Water is being released from the Koyna dam at a high intensity of around 2,100 cusecs (cubic feet per second) through the gates of the power house situated at the base of the dam. 
 
 Water from the Radhanagari dam is being released at the rate of 2,200 cusecs.
 
 The Koyna and the Radhanagari dams have the capacity to hold 81.79 TMC water and 8.14 TMC respectively.
 
 Meanwhile, a hight alert has been issued to the low-lying areas, including Nawaja, Mahabaleshwar, Pratapgad, Sonat, Bamnoli, Kathi and Walwan amid continuous rain and fear of floods. 
 
 "The water released from the Koyna dam is under control now but if the rain continues with the same intensity, it will further increase the level of the dam and the   subsequently. We have already alerted the villages located on the banks of these rivers. We have also taken precautionary measures to ensure that everyone is relocated to safer zone," said a district administration official in Satara district.
 
 "We will be lifting the gates of Koyna dam by 2feet at 11 am on Sunday which will increase the intensity of water at the rate of 10,275 cusecs causing inconvenience to the villagers near the riverside. We have appealed them to relocate, if the water level increases any further," he said.
 
 Radhanagari dam is 97% full to its capacity but the automated gates are not yet open.
 
 According to Kolhapur district administration, the water level of Panchganga River is below the warning level and there is no danger to the villages located on the downstream of the river.
 
 "We are prepared to tackle any emergency-like situation. If the water level from the Radhanagari dam increases, it will lead to a further rise in the water level of the Panchganga River," he added.
 
 "We are communicating with the   officials in Karnataka who can help in regulating the water level of the Krishna River," said a district administration official.
 
