The sky grew darker, painted blue on blue, one stroke at a time, into deeper and deeper shades of night. Fans of famous author   will no doubt recognise these lines as poetic. But you can live them out, too. For in January, when the weather turns a shade colder and the night, a shade brighter, get out under the sky to observe the best view of the stars and planets on display. And many Mumbaikars are heading to far off villages to go   in groups. Time you got out of the usual rut of a dinner or movie night around town and got under a blanket… of stars! 

 
  
  
 In Mumbai, we hardly see the darkness of the sky and its real beauty owing to light pollution, but once you are in the outskirts, it’s like you have a diamond-studded carpet above you! “Winter is the best time for stargazing and this is an apt time to do so, right up to February,” says Kale, adding, “The whole sky literally comes to life. Dust particles settle after midnight, so that is the ideal time to view the sky.” And the heavenly bodies are in full display. “We just had a meteor shower (quadrantid) in the first week of January and the next one will be in March. But scattered falling meteors can still be observed now every few hours; they are beautiful, just like sparkling fireworks. We also have two planets in the evening sky — planet  , and above it, a red dot, planet  .”
 Most of the bodies can be seen without a telescope, so don’t hesitate to join up for a stargazing class if you don’t have one. And like any other sport or hobby, timing matters. “If you get up before sunrise and look overhead, you will be able to see   clearly. Star clusters, binary stars and a few galaxies are prominently visible. Right at dawn and dusk, you will see artificial satellites, too. These are star-like objects moving along the sky in the background of the stars. An upcoming comet is expected in June, which will be able to be seen sans a telescope. Let’s keep fingers crossed that the sky will be clear then,” says Kale. 
  The city’s skies can be tricky due to light pollution, which limits the view. “Sometimes you can even go on a trip and not get the best views,” warns stargazing expert Aadil Desai. “But there is still a lot to be seen now such as the Belt of Orion, which is a pointer to other stars. Depending on light conditions you can also Saturn’s rings, the markings on Mars — such as the ice caps and dust storms, as well as the moons and bands of Jupiter. With a larger telescope you can also see how the red spot on Jupiter has actually moved. Same with the satellites, you can see their shadows and transits; it’s a beautiful celestial show,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 A group of amateur stargazers take off post sunset to far-flung villages and spots on the outskirts of Mumbai to watch the skies, the cold months being the best time to do so. Affirms expert, Milind Kale. “This is the best time to go stargazing, for November unto February is when the skies are the clearest. Today, there are a lot more people interested in it. They’re signing up for sky observations and field visits. Earlier this was a niche hobby, but today more people are buying books on astronomy and they exchange notes at meet-ups. They also invest in telescopes above 10 inches (Rs 1.5 lakh), so this is no longer an out-of-reach hobby.” The groups head out on Friday night and return on Sunday.
 
 
 
  
  
 The stargazing camp is as interesting as it gets. There is a lecture for everyone on the know-how and what to look out for. Some groups carry telescopes with them for everyone to use. These are then set up in a clear open area. First-timers are given star maps, taught to identify a star from a planet and which constellations to observe. “It is important to teach people the right astral terminology too,” adds co-ordinator Nitin Shah. After the learning comes the fun. “We also have dinner under the stars and everyone mingles, engages in starry stalk and compares their observances,” he adds.
 
 
  
  
 These are unmissable. Shiny, spherical clusters are formed from gas and dust and resemble sparking balls of light. Huddled in a group, these are called an association.
 
 Technology is a huge help here. Sky-reading apps help people find constellations and and star clusters. “It’s simple; as you rotate the phone it identifies your co-ordinates and tells which constellations are above you,” explains Kale.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vangani, after Badlapur
 Bordi, near Gujarat border
 Bhivpuri, after Shelu
 Murbad, near Karjat
 Shahpur, before Kasara 
 Umroli, same line
 Kelve
 Saphala
 Uran
 Ghodbunder
 Yeoor, Thane 
 Khopoli
 Lonavala
 Matheran 
 
 
 
 Also called the Great Bear. It is visible post midnight.
 
 This is visible from dusk to dawn.
 
 You can see the phases of the moon and its craters, its plains. 
 
 Will be visible after midnight.
 
 Seen in the evening sky.
 
 Just before sunrise.
 
 This nebula is part of the Orion constellation and needs a telescope to be observed.
 
 This is most distant celestial object that human eye can see without the telescope, about 22 lakh light years away from the Earth. It can now be clearly seen in the evening.
 
 The brightest star in the night sky, this is visible post 10 pm.
 
 These streaks of light can be seen with the naked eye. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
