CHANDIGARH: A “psychopathic serial killer” was behind the rape and murder of the four-year-old girl whose dead body was found from a dry well in Panipat on September 22, Panipat police have claimed. Following his trail since the child had gone missing from   locality in Panipat on September 17, the police found the accused in UP’s Kaushambi district where he was arrested for having killed another girl last week.

 The sequence of event started when the four-year-old girl’s parents lodged a missing persons report with Panipat police. She was last seen with the accused,   Singh. In his mid-20s, Sukhraj was working in a local handloom unit and living in Baljeet Nagar. He was on friendly terms with the parents and used to offer candies and chocolates to the child, police said.
 
 On September 17, he took the girl to nearby market on the pretext of buying her some sweets. On September 22, the girl’s dead body was found from dry well and Sukhraj was missing.
 
  (headquarters) Jagdeep Singh told  , “We came to know about his character after a police party from here approached the Kaushambi police to arrest him. After committing the crime on September 18, he had left for his native. Our team tracked his mobile location and reached there. He had by then murdered another child.”
 
 “During his interrogation he confessed to have killed the girl and injuring a nine-year-old boy last year,” the DSP said.
 
 During the investigation, Panipat police found that Sukhraj was “mentally unstable and a psychopathic killer”. “He was caught by residents of his native village   having unnatural sex with animals. He was excommunicated from village had come to Panipat,” police said.
 
 While confessing to have murdered the four-year-old girl, Sukhraj has also told police that he had chewed up lips of a nine-year-old boy last year but his family did not lodge any complaint against him.
 
 The DSP said that the autopsy report had already confirmed that girl was strangulated to death after sexual abuse. Acting on the complaint of the victim’s father, a case of rape and murder was registered at city police station.
 
