AHMEDABAD:   (ATS) has filed a charge-sheet in the espionage case involving two alleged   who were held in Kutch a few months back. The charge-sheet alleges that the two had made 7-8 phone calls to their Pakistan ISI handler and leaked information about the Indian  ,  , new mobile towers being built in the region, and even cellphone numbers of defence personnel deployed in the Kutch border.

 The ATS charge-sheet says that both the spies had told their handler that “a whole battalion of the Indian Army had been deployed on Lakhpat border.” (Lakhpat is a small Indian town in Kutch district on the border.)
 
 Sources in the ATS claimed that the two Pak ‘spies’ had also sent information about four Army units deployed across Gandhidham, Jakli, Kapau, Madrase and Garwal. “They had also passed on to Pak agencies information about 6 bunkers, allotment of 10 MI helicopters, setting up of a BSF camp over about 100 acres of land at Bharpur and sensitive information about IAF movement in the area,” a source said.
 
 Incidentally,   and Sakur Sama were nabbed by the Gujarat ATS on October 12, 2016 from Kukma village in Bhuj. (Alana was honeytrapped into spying for Pakistan by a young girl, Razia.)
 
 The arrests were made four days after the Indian Army conducted a ‘surgical strike’ on terror launch pads in Pak-occupied Kashmir (PoK) in retaliation to 19 Indian soldiers martyred in Uri terror attack by a Pak-based terror outfit.
 
 The Gujarat ATS charge-sheet says that the voice spectrograph test had confirmed that it was Mohammed Alana who had spoken to his ISI handler, one Captain Ashraf alias ‘Master’ 7-8 times to leak sensitive military information before and after the ‘surgical strikes’.
 
 A senior ATS official said the Indian defence establishment had also confirmed that the pictures recovered from Mohammed Alana and Sakur Sama were indeed sensitive in nature and were of the spots were photography is prohibited. “We have annexed the defence report to the charge-sheet,” said the official.
 
 Sources in the ATS said Alana had gone to Fatfaram village in Mithi district of Pakistan between October 15 and 31 and come into contact with his ISI handler, Captain Ashraf, through his uncle named Ashraf Datu.
 
 “Captain Ashraf had then given him a cell phone which Alana had brought to India,” a source said. 
 
 “In January 2016, Alana stole an election card of Suleman Vandha from his nephew, Taiyab Ibrahim, and got a Sim card from Teleshop Communication, a shop located at Shaikh Pir, and owned by one Sad Alias Sajid Raina. Sad has been arrested in the case,” the source said.
 
 Alana and Sakur used to gather sensitive information about army movement in border areas of Kutch. “They used to call Alana’s uncle, Ashraf, who then passed it on to ISI handler Captain Ashraf ,” said a source in the ATS.
 
