RAJKOT: The delegation of Gujarat’s fishermen on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at New Delhi to represent about their long-pending issues including releasing their boats from Pakistan’s custody.

 Members of Shree Akhil Gujarat Macchimar Mahamandal (SAGMM) have been camping in Delhi since the last three days to meet different ministers and called on Modi on Wednesday. The delegation submitted their charter of demands to PM and sought the central government’s intervention.
 
 “There are around 950 Indian fishing boats seized by Pakistan, which belong to our fishermen. Pakistan had released 57 boats in 2015 but remaining are still in their custody. 
 
 Pakistan had announced that it will release 22 boats recently and a delegation of fishermen had also visited there in February last year to verify vessels. But due to various reasons, the release is being delayed. We request you to initiate the process as monsoon is approaching and it won’t be feasible once rains start,” the fishermen’s body submitted to PM.
 
 They also demanded that owners whose boats are captured by Pakistan should be given monetary compensation as one fishing vessel costs around Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.
 
 The association also urged Modi to help bring back captured   from Pakistan and reciprocate it by releasing their fishermen. There are around 375 fishermen lodged in Pakistani jail. 
 
 SAGMM also urged the Union agricultural minister to define the notional International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) as fishermen cross it and get captured by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency. 
 
 Among other demands, the association also requested for a relief package from the central government for the families of those sailors who die in natural calamity. The package must also include compensation for the boats damaged in the calamity.
 
 Chuni Gohel, Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, who accompanied the fishermen, said, “The Prime Minister gave them a patient hearing and assured them that he will help solve their issues. Fishermen represented their various issues during the 15-minute meeting.” 
 
 
