GURUGRAM: Three youths, who used to run a   in   of Dwarka, have been arrested for allegedly duping gullible customers, mostly belonging to a Mumbai-based private bank, by extracting their bank account and card details.

 Though only one Gurgaon-based customer, Ramesh Sharma, has lodged a complaint of   by the call centre so far, the police have found details of several other customers of the bank from the trio.
 
 Suryapratap Singh (22), Hemant Kumar (21), both Class XII passouts, and Bhuvan Kothari (24), a Class X passout, were picked up on May 24 and taken into police custody for interrogation. 
 
 Suryapratap, originally from Khushinagar in UP, lived in Mahavir Enclave in Delhi while Hemant, from Barabanki of UP, lived in Palam in Delhi. Bhuvan of Uttrakhand was residing in Burari, Delhi.
 
 Suryapratap and Bhuvan used to work as callers at an agency, which was hired by the private bank to call potential customers who were willing to take loans. 
 
 “For the purpose, the bank had shared with the agency its customers’ details — names, phone numbers and areas where they lived. The duo collected the information from the agency and then quit the job around a year ago,” said head constable Sandeep, investigating officer, Gurgaon cybercrime cell. 
 
 Subsequently, the duo roped in more people to form a call centre and started targeting customers of the bank. 
 
 The city police swung into action only recently following a complaint from Ramesh Sharma, a resident of Begampur Khatola, who had received a call from a woman employee of the call centre on April 13. The woman caller — pretending to be an executive of the bank, where Ramesh had his account — promised him some “reward points” on his credit card. 
 
 The woman managed to lure him into sharing his credit card information, along with the OTP numbers. Soon, Ramesh received alerts on his phone stating that total Rs 13,400 had been deducted from his credit card and added to two e-wallet accounts of Mobikwik and Oxigen Wallet. When Ramesh called the woman back, she told him that the money would be reverted to his account once the reward points were added to the card, which never happened.
 
  Preliminary probe revealed that the transactions had taken place in Dwarka sectors 4 and 6. Later, it was found that Rs 4,000 from one of the e-wallet accounts was transferred to a bank account that belonged to the father of one of the three youths. The police traced down the father, who then helped cops nab the three.
 
 The police also raided the call centre in Palam and recovered several credit cards, mobile phones and laptops, which are being scanned for evidence.
 
 Inspector Anand, in-charge of the cybercrime unit, said as of now, the police had come across only one case of fraud (Ramesh Sharma), in which this group was involved. “There may be more such cases. We are investigating the matter to find out if more people were duped. Also, we are trying to find out whether more people are associated with the three youths,” he said.
 
 
