NEW DELHI: A fight over driving on the wrong side led to a 29-year-old trader losing a part of his nose near  .   was returning home after making purchases for his wedding next week when three men thrashed him and one of them bit off a part of his nose.

 Police said the three men had been arrested and a case of assault registered against them.
 
 The incident occurred at   on Thursday when Gupta was driving home around 9pm after inviting a few colleagues to the wedding. He owns a factory for food colours nearby . In his complaint, Gupta said he had taken a Uturn near Novelty cinema hall and slowed his car while looking for space to squeeze through. He said three men, later identified as Vishal Pandey , Dheeraj and Vipin Mehra, came rushing towards him, opened the door on the driver's side and dragged him out.
 
 "They accused me of driving on the wrong side. I explained that I was only looking for a space to pass and had no intention of parking my car or blocking the road," said Gupta. The trio, however, did not listen to him and began thrashing him.
 
 As Gupta started running, Pandey and Mehra chased him and kicked him from behind. When Gupta resisted, Dheeraj bit him and tore off a part of his nose. They then threatened Gupta and fled from the scene. Gupta said a cart puller tried to intervene and save him but Dheeraj bit his hand too. "The cart-puller was also bleeding," said Gupta.
 
 Colleagues rushed Gupta to a hospital but there was more pain in store. Doctors asked his friends to retrieve the severed part so that it could be sewn back. Gupta's colleagues returned to the spot and looked for it but in vain. "I informed my brother, Pankaj about the incident after which my family members reached the hospital and shifted me to another private hos pital in Shalimar Bagh," said Gupta. Doctors have now recommended a maxo-facial surgery to reconstruct his nose.
 
 Gupta's father, Vijay, told cops that he was to be married on March 4 and had gone to Lahori Gate for last-minute preparations. The three attackers were arrested from the area on Friday night.
 
