MUMBAI: There is more trouble in the offing for the Jain brothers of  , a construction company, who have been arrested for duping investors. The EOW of Mumbai police has written to the ED about possible money laundering involving proceeds from the fraud that they suspect has touched Rs 200 crore.

 Jitendra Jain, his brother Jinendra and brother-in-law Ketan Shah were arrested last November for duping investors by accepting bookings but not handing over flats or godowns, and forging property documents like commencement certificate and other development documents from BMC. So far, 16 FIRs have been registered against them. “As our investigation is on, more and more complaints are pouring in. Till now, there are around 150 victims who have been duped. We expect around six-seven more offences to be registered,” said a police officer.
 
 The trio will find it difficult to obtain bail, claimed cops, because the police have invoked stringent sections of the   (MOFA) in almost all the cases. Now, if ED begins a probe into money laundering, their woes will continue. 
 
 The police have frozen 200 bank accounts with Rs 8 crore linked to the builder brothers, FDs worth Rs 6 crore in various banks, 23 properties across the city and seven high-end cars.
 
 Giving examples of the fraud, cops said the Jains accepted bookings for two industrial godowns at   in Kandivli from two garment traders, but did not give them possession even after the deadline. During inquiries, it transpired that the builder brothers had sold 448 galas in the building, but only 107 agreements were registered, and only 96 were issued allotment letters. It also emerged that BMC had given permission for five floors, but the builders added two more. The BMC has served a demolition notice. In all, 200 were duped of Rs 21 crore.
 
 In another case, the builder accepted bookings from 25 buyers and constructed a 17-floor highrise — Shimmer society in   (west) — though he had CC permission for only five floors. The buyers approached the Bombay high court, which directed the police to book the Jains. “In most of these offences, the modus operandi is almost same,” said police inspector  , who is heading the probe team that includes police officers Vishal Padir and Vikrant Shirshaat. 
 
 
