LUCKNOW:   of opposition parties, Meira Kumar, on Friday said that it was “highly unfortunate“ that she and NDA candidate   were identified by their caste.

 “It's highly unfortunate that the two individuals, who were contesting for the highest constitutional post of a democratic country were identified essentially by their caste,” said Kumar, who was in the state capital to meet SP president   and BSP chief Mayawati to seek their support for president elections due on July 17.
 
 A bureaucrat-turned-politician, Kumar said that the forthcoming presidential election was not just the contest between two individuals but a clash of two different ideologies. In an apparent reference to BJP, Kumar said that the party's ideology promotes division in terms of caste and religion. “Our ideology, however, aims at integrating people of different section of the society,” said the former Congress MP and country's first woman Lok Sabha Speaker.
 
 Hitting out at the BJP, Kumar said that the past three years have seen a rise in communalism and imposition of `Manuwadi' ideology . It is a grave threat to the existing social order,” she said. Earlier, Kumar met BSP chief Mayawati at the latter's residence. She was accompanied by senior Congress leader and RS member Pramod Tewari and UPCC chief Raj Babbar. The meeting lasting for almost an hour saw the BSP president assuring Kumar of her party's full support to her candidature.
 
 Kumar then met SP president Akhilesh Yadav and some of SP MLAs who were called to the party office in the afternoon. Interestingly, senior SP MLAs Shivpal Singh Yadav and Azam Khan ­were conspicuous by their absence.In a written appeal circulated to all SP MLAs, Kumar said that the presidential election has given one an opportunity to rise from petty politics and listen to inner conscience.
 
 Yadav said that his party fully backed Meira Kumar who represented a ‘secular ideology'. He, however, refused to comment on the chances of cross-voting by some of the party MLAs.
 
