GREATER NOIDA: A   at Chinese mobile firm Vivo’s   in   on Tuesday, following an alleged clash between a section of workers and bouncers and security guards, over layoff of workers.

 The protesters alleged Vivo had abruptly terminated the services of 500 workers over the last two months. The company’s manufacturing unit at Tech Zone in Ecotech 1 currently employs around 1,000 contractual workers, Noida police circle officer Nishank Sharma said. Many of these workers were hired during the IPL. 
 
 Vivo is the T20 league’s title sponsor and workers said demand was high during the time the matches were on. But the workers claimed the company’s behavior changed after the IPL season ended. Some alleged they were under pressure to quit.
 
 Tuesday’s protest started around 5 pm after the latest round of layoffs in which the protesters alleged 150 workers were sacked. Police, however, later put the number at 50. A scuffle broke out when the workers demanded to know why they were being sacked between them and guards and bouncers. The workers then raised slogans and vandalised the company premises before being driven out of the gates. The company management called police to the premises, fearing the standoff would escalate.
 
 “They have been terminating workers without giving prior notice,” said Mohit Kumar, a worker. “There is complete uncertainty and, every second day, some workers are terminated.” Rahul Sakya, another worker, alleged salaries, too, had been delayed by 15-20 days.
 
 Sharma said police intervened on time and prevented trouble from escalating. “We spoke to both parties. The company management said they have to fire some workers as a policy decision. On Tuesday, they sacked 50 contractual workers which resulted in a protest. We have asked the company management to frame a policy for worker’s happy exit, which they have agreed to work on,” Sharma said.
 
 Noida police chief Love Kumar said no one had received any serious injuries, and neither had the police received any formal complaint.
 
 In a statement later in the evening, Vivo said, “With continuous growth and strategic review, we look at staffing the right size in various divisions to improve productivity. The layoff is in line with this business decision.” 
 
 The company also said it had strictly adhered to rules and regulations, and contracts, and was taking measures for a peaceful transition. 
 
 
