JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court while issuing notice to the chief secretary has asked to inform the court of the steps proposed to be initiated to the smoothen the functioning of the   which tasked with disposal of issues of service cases.

 The single bench of Justice   issued the order on a petition by R K Swami.
 
 Hanuman Chaudhary, counsel for the petitioner, said, the petitioner was a Class IV employee in the education department and the department has initiated some recovery proceedings against him in 2015.
 
 The petitioner filed an appeal in the tribunal against the recovery and an interim order was passed to stay the recovery in 2015. Thereafter, the case was heard finally on April 25, 2017 and judgment was reserved but the same was again released for re hearing on June 27, 2017. He appealed for an early hearing of his petition but in vain forcing him to approach the high court.
 
 Due to the delay in final order on his petition, the petitioner who retired on August 31, 2017 could not get pension benefits.
 
 During the hearing of the petition, the counsel for the petitioner levelled charge against the functioning of the commission which comprises an additional chief secretary rank official as its chairman neither sits from 10 am to 5 pm in the court nor due procedure is followed regarding reserving of judgments.
 
 The high court directed the education department to release provisionally pension to the petitioner.
 
 ‘Reimburse med bills with interest’
 
 Pensioner is entitled to reimbursement of medical bills though the medical dairy was renewed after treatment, said the high court. The single bench of Justice SP Sharma gave the order on a petition by Dr  .
 
 The petitioner approached Court assailing the order passed by the Treasury Officer,   who had denied the claim for the treatment which he had under gone from the period 12.9.2009 to 13.9.2009 on the ground that his medical diary was renewed on September 22, 2009 that is after the treatment, said Anoop Dhand counsel for the petitioner.
 
 The court said the petitioner retired in the year 1993 when the 2009 scheme had not being introduced and it was under the Medical Attendance Rules, 1973 that the petitioner was being governed.
 
 From time to time the new schemes came into force. Non compliance of provisions of the new schemes which has been introduced by the State Government much after the retirement of the petitioner could not be a reason to deny the pensioner of reimbursement of his office medical bills and such objection per se appears but to be nothing but harassment of the pensioner. It is for the Government to examine as to whether they circulate the amendments which they make in the pension scheme to all the pensioners and for one good reason if any pensioner is not able to get medical diary renewed, the same would not be sufficient Ground to deny his medical bills to be reimbursed.
 
 The court directed that the medical reimbursement due to the employee be released immediately with 9% interest and the government is at liberty to recover the amount form the erring officer.
 
 
