JAUNPUR: In reply to chief minister  's jibe -"I am sure after a good drive on the expressway built in record time and within limited state resources, Modi ji will cast his vote for cycle"- Prime Minister   while addressing an election rally in Jaunpur on Saturday, reverted and said, "If Akhilesh and his 'yaar' (Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi) ride on a bicycle from Kheta Sarai to Kuthan, I think, even they will not cast vote for their respective parties." 

 " Abhi Akhilesh ji keh rahe the ki Modi ji agar aap Dilli (Delhi)-Agra road par drive karein to aap bhi SAPA (SP) ko vote dete...Akhilesh ji aap bhi ek kaam kar lo, aap zara cycle pe baith kar aur peeche apne yaar (Rahul Gandhi ) ko bithaa kar Kheta Sarai se Kuthan chala kar dikha do, to aap khud bhi SAPA ko vote nahi doge." A stretch of nearly 12km between Kheta Sarai and Kuthan in Jaunpur district, locals said is in a very bad shape. Referring to former SP minister Gayatri Prajapati who is accused of rape and has been evading arrest, Modi said, "When people in country do auspicious things, they chant the Gayatri mantra. But here, UP government chants Gayatri-Prajapati mantra." He added that despite a case lodged against him, the chief minister went to campaign for the tainted minister who was present right there and now, the police cannot trace him. 
 
 Striking local connect over women safety, he said, "In Jaunpur, women and girls can't step out of the house after the sunset." Earlier, Modi began his speech slamming opposition who questioned the army and who asked for proof of the surgical strikes in Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir last year. "They are politicising national security and those who question surgical strikes should come to Jaunpur and meet the families of the martyrs." 
 
 Modi also said those who criticise note ban are corrupt. "The note ban made all three, Buaji (aunty), bhateeja (nephew) and bhateeja's yaar (friend) uncomfortable," he said, referring to BSP chief Mayawati, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi. 
 
