NAGPUR: Swati Nair, in her early 20s, has been named in the tricky murder of her husband Nitin, 27, that was earlier thought to be a freak accident. Nitin had died on April 29. Forensic examine later revealed that Nitin, a businessman settled in Bhopal in MP, was murdered by strangulation.

 The couple, who were close since school days at Betul in  , had married in August last year after Swati’s divorce in Kerala. Shocked by Nitin’s death, his father Ramesh too had passed away within a few days.   police are now set to leave for Kerala to round up Swati in a couple of days after naming her as a suspect.
 
 Initially, police had little doubt when Swati claimed Nitin had succumbed to injuries sustained after suffering a fall from chair in their rented room at Bajaj Nagar. The couple had rented the room for themselves as Nitin’s parents were being treated at CIIMS. Nitin’s father Ramesh was admitted at CIIMS after suffering brain haemorrhage in April. The family had decided to shift him back to Betul as he was not responding to treatment but later Nitin’s mother   too fell ill. Laila too was brought from MP and admitted at CIIMS but she was soon discharged. She had then gone back to Betul.
 
 Nitin and Swati later got Ramesh discharged. Ramesh was to be taken back to Betul on April 30. A day before that, Nitin’s ‘accident’ happened. Swati had rushed Nitin to Wockhardt hospital where he was declared brought dead. The post-mortem was conducted at   and Hospital. Bajaj Nagar police station had initially registered it as accidental death. Swati claimed to have heard a loud noise from the adjoining room. She had stated she found Nitin fallen from a chair in the room when she reached there.
 
 The case took an interesting turn in second week of May when Nitin’s younger brother Hargovind landed at Bajaj Nagar police station with some evidence that included a ‘love letter’ penned by Swati to a person identified as Anil Sukraman. There were also screenshots of some chats on social media between Swati and Sukraman. The chats had romantic overtures in them that left Nitin’s family stunned. It is learnt the love letter was found in Nitin’s purse and chat on his mobile phone that the Bajaj Nagar police had returned to the family of the deceased.
 
 Also on the day of Nitin’s funeral, Swati had returned to Kerala by car with her parents. She did not contact Nitin’s family. In the meantime, forensic experts confirmed that Nitin was murdered. Police and victim’s family are baffled as Nitin was a well-built man while Swati is of medium stature. The cops are now suspecting involvement of more than one person.
 
