KOLKATA:   faced humiliation in the hands of university students in Japan during his visit in 1916, because India was under   at that time,   Mohan Bhagwat said in Nagpur on Tuesday . He added: No matter how big an individual is, one does not gain enough respect if he comes from a weak country . This has sent ripples of discussion among Tagore scholars in Kolkata.

 He was addressing the students of Bhonsla Military Academy on the importance of creating a stronger nation and encouraging students to join military services. The military academy , run by Central Hindu Military Society, encourages students to take up a career in armed forces. IAF vice-chief Air Marshall S B Deo shared the dais with Bhagwat during the talk.
 
 Bhagwat said: After winning the first Nobel from Asia in 1913, Tagore was on a world tour with the Gitanjali. He visited Japan in 1916 and on one occasion he was supposed to address a body of students at a university in Japan. Tagore reached on time, but no student turned up to hear him.
 
 Tagore scholars are divided in their opinion about the authenticity of Bhagwat's comment. While some felt this was an exaggeration, others thought that the whole gamut of Tagore's philosophy vis a vis militant nationalism should be considered instead of making a blanket statement for or against the comment. Though it is well known that Tagore's visit to China was marked with resistance, mostly due to his criticism of industrialization and modernization that he linked to militant nationalism, the fact that he might have faced a similar situation during his earlier dialogue with Japan, is not very clear. However, some documents including an essay by Kalidas Nag and a renowned book, Asia is One: Critical Notes on India-Asia “Creative Unity“, mention this rebuttal of Tagore in Japan and later in China.
 
 However, some senior Tagore scholars like Amitrasudan Bhattacharya -who retired as Tagore chair professor from Visva-Bharati and also the director of Nippon Bhavan, which Tagore had started to boost India-Japan relations -feel there is no base in Bhagwat's comment. “Tagore had elaborately documented his visit to Japan and there is no mention of this incident.He had always been very truthful about his foreign interactions. He was so touched with the relationships he built with the Japanese intellectuals that he started the Nippon Bhavan in Santiniketan.So the question of such a rebuff does not arise,“ Bhattacharya said.
 
