KOCHI: With majority of online taxi drivers joining protest against their service providers, people in the city who depend on the service had to pay heavy charges as the prices surged when demand exceeded the supply.

 For 7.5 km ride from Vennala to   in the morning, people had to pay on an average Rs 280, much higher from the regular fare of Rs 120 to Rs 130 on any other day.Under normal condition, a prominent service provider keeps marks their base rate Rs 35 and charges Rs 7 per kilometre and Rs 1.5 per hour.
 
 “Upfront fares are calculated using the expected time and distance of the trip and local traffic, as well as how many riders and nearby drivers are using Uber at that moment. And when fares go up due to increased demand, instead of surge lightning bolts and pop-up screens, riders are given the actual fare before they request their ride,“ said the Uber spokesperson. “We have needlessly encouraged these online taxi operators and now are dependent on them,“ said  , Road Transportation Officer.
 
 He said that the maximum rates fixed for cabs were set considering back and forth trips and that the MVD does not have specific guidelines to deal with online taxis unique attributes.
 
 The transport department needs to frame new ones specifically for online taxis. As of now, they are operating below the maximum rate permissible, even under surge rates.
 
 Meanwhile, rickshaw drivers in the city tried to make hay while the sun shines. “Normally we make around Rs 300 a day after settling the rental charge for my rickshaw. Today , it seems like I could take home Rs 500,“ said Roy V , a rickshaw driver working in Ernakulam, who eagerly looks forward to days that online taxi union's hold their protest.
 
 “This season is not good for business as not many people are on the road due to the exams. But the strike is definitely helping the condition,“ he said.
 
 Around 200 taxi drivers took part in the march from   to the Uber office in Palarivattom said TRS Kumar, President of the   (OTDU). They also held a 24hour offline protest, where a member of OTDU stayed offline thereby reducing the number of taxis available in the online taxi marketplace.
 
 OTDU is currently demanding a fixed minimum wage for drivers for fixed amount of distance.
 
 They are also furious about Uber continuing to add new drivers to their marketplace.
 
 “This is a matter of supply and demand. As of now, there are not enough customers to split amongst all the active drivers. So drivers have to drive around without making any money,“ said  , secretary of OTDU.
 
 He said that they plan on holding an indefinite strike starting from March 15, if their conditions are not met before the set day.
 
