GURUGRAM: Poetry for breakfast? Shakespearean sonnets to go with your sunrise spread? A Gurugram-based pop-up-cum-studio seeks to marry   and aesthetics, to curate an immersive experience around food, at a popular city café.

 ‘hey!pulp’ is a novel — and experiential — concept that pairs food with design. For   and Sunayna, the brains behind the concept, artistic expression matters. But theirs is an art that sits comfortably with a DIY philosophy. 
 
 “Design changes things,” claims Sunayna. “People are becoming cleverer in the way they use design, companies are moving towards a designer aesthetic.” ‘hey!pulp’ reflects such a drift. This is, adds Shefali, an “experimental” space.
 
 Sunayna is the founder, Shefali the food curator. Sunayna, 36, found her niche in advertising, but not fulfilment. She takes inspiration from other arts and art forms. “When I had my job, I would paint or doodle. So I understood different kinds of art, which gave me a good base to start something,” she shared. Sunayna was once a DJ— playing heavy metal — and is now practiced at graphic design (she also instructs in the art of body combat). Shefali, 26, brings the imagination and skills of a chef. The menu curator at ‘hey!pulp’, she calls herself a “hopper” who has now found stability and contentment. “I’ve explored a lot of things in the last four years. Now I feel settled, I’m in this for all the right reasons.” 
 
 Their first six months were spent experimenting, figuring out what works and what doesn’t. “Thinking up a concept may be easy, but execution is difficult,” Sunayna acknowledges. Still, no concept is ever repeated, a rule they follow unfailingly. And impermanence is the one constant. ‘hey!pulp’ debuted with ‘Combination Jam’ in April, in which conserves and preserves (apple-caramel, orange-fig, strawberry-amla, kiwi-banana and mango-chili) were prepared in-house, using ingredients that are natural and locally sourced. 
 
 And this month, they hosted the first ‘Poetry for Breakfast’, a monthly feature that will be organised on a weekend. “This will be a recurring concept, and we’ll be picking different poets, starting with  ,” says Shefali, who, inspired by the Bard’s fondness for bread, created a “funky” menu around it. 
 
 Collaboration with other artists is also on the cards. Creatively, the possibilities are endless, and the duo already has a full diary for the next six months. In June, at the next poetry morning, Keats will have pride of place. Porridge, the Romantic poet’s favourite nosh, will be on the menu, very likely accompanied by readings from his verse.
 
 Down the road, events are being planned around doughnuts, bite-sized food, and ‘Yin and Yang’ (and finding balance in food). Yet the excitement of it all is that neither Sunayna nor Shefali know what will engage the customers, nor do the café’s patrons have any idea of what to expect — gastronomically and aesthetically. But ‘hey!pulp’ has certainly struck a chord with some folks.
 
 And it’s helped both get to know each other better, and understand how good the other is at what they do. “Shefali is happiest when she’s cooking,” Sunayna admits. “It’s so much fun, all the time,” enthuses Shefali.
 
 
