KOLKATA/DARJEELING: Kurseong's   (RRH), a century-old community auditorium that survived three violent Gorkhaland agitations since the 80s only to be gutted in the fourth, on July 19, will continue to keep its date with a 87-year-old tradition when it celebrates the Durga Puja.Though the RRH will have a small idol, the members have decided to go for decorations and illumination and also bring a priest from Raiganj to perform the Puja, keeping with the tradition. “For four generations, we are celebrating Durga Puja at RRH. It is a tradition that all the communities of Kurseong look forward to and participate. We will not have an elaborate Puja because of the present circumstances, but we will observe our tradition,“ said Alka Dey , an elderly member of the RRH's organizing committee.

 “As the hall has been gutted, the Puja will take place in a pandal. However, the Puja will be held on a very small scale this year. We have manpower as well as monetary constraints,“ said Arun Mohan Ghosh, secretary of the Bengali Association of Kurseong.
 
 Apart from RRH, the Nri pendra Narayan Bengali Hindu Hall (NNBHH) in Darjeeling and Kalimpong Milanee Club (KMC) have also decided that it would not allow a break in tradition, though the celebration will be a low-key affair.
 
 The NNBHH has been celebrating Durga Puja since 1915. “We have also decided to bring only two `dhakis', instead of the usual six. We will also not have the cultural programme and arts competition. Bhog will also be made for very few people.Our budget has been slashed from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. However, we will organise some programmes on `Saptami' if the situation becomes normal,“ said Saibal Chakraborty , secretary of the NNBHH.
 
 In Kalimpong, Durga Puja celebration has always been a grand affair. The KMC usually sets up huge pandal near the   where the idol is installed. The entire pathway leading to the pandal is de corated and illuminated. Then there's the grand `bhog' which even members of other communities enjoy.
 
 “This year, though, we will not have an elaborate celebration. We will not have the pandal or decorations. We will observe Durga Puja on the premises of the Thakurbari temple with a small idol. We have hired a `dhaki' from Malda, unlike last year when we had four of them. We will not have the usual cultural events or the drawing competition for children. But, we will cook the `bhog' for people who visit the venue,“ said Monojit Das Gupta, secretary of KMC.
 
 Budget for the KMC was a big issue. But, Das Gupta, who is a teacher of  , said people from other communities also extended their support. “Last year, our budget was Rs 5 lakh. It has been slashed to Rs 1lakh this year. However, people from other communities came forward to organize the festival. In fact, several people told me that the Puja was theirs too and that the KMC was just an organizer,“ he said.
 
