LUDHIANA: A common thread seems to run through almost all attacks on religious leaders and prominent activists in the state in recent months. In most of these high-profile or sensational cases, two bike-borne men manage to avoid the gaze of numerous   to reach the victim, fire from high-grade country-made guns and escaped after creating panic in the area. The most recent double murder, in which father-son duo linked with Sirsa-based   were shot on Saturday, was also a replay of the same sequence. 

 The other common factor in all these bold crimes is that the investigating authorities are left holding untied ends of probe. No arrests have been made in any of these cases by the Punjab Police or the CBI. Even police are baffled by the similar modus operandi in these attacks, wherein armed assailants also manage to just avoid the CCTV cameras.
 
 In case of RSS 'shakha' attack in Kidwai Nagar on January 18, 2016, the two motorcycle-borne masked miscreants had fired at 35-year-old Naresh Kumar, the 'mukhya shikshak' (main teacher) at Shaheed Park area. The attack took place just before the 'shakha' was to start early in the morning. The attackers had used a black bike and took such a route that the number plate of the two-wheeler was not captured anywhere.
 
 In the second such major case, unidentified murderers rode a bike to approach Chand Kaur, matriarch of Namdharis and wife of former sect head Sadguru Jagjit Singh, to shoot her on April 4. Though the criminals didn't have mask on their faces, they had used a spot in Bhaini Sahib, the headquarters of the sect, where no CCTV was installed. 
 
 In the third similar case, on April 23, two men on motorcycle shot state labour wing president of Shiv Sena Durga Gupta at Lalheri Chowk while he was going to buy wheat flour from market in Khanna on a two-wheeler. The assailants had faces covered with mask and chose an area with minimum CCTV monitoring.
 
 In another incident that made news across the country, Punjab vice-president of RSS Brigadier Jagdish Gagneja (retd) was shot at in the heart of Jalandhar city on August 6, 2016, in a similar fashion. He was seriously injured and passed away after 43 days. The case was given to CBI but no arrests have been made so far in this case either. 
 
 In the fifth such case, on January 14, 2017, again masked men on motorcycle shot pramukh jila pracharak (preacher) of Shree Hindu Takhat, Amit Sharma, close to Durga Temple near Rakh Bagh area here. Though a CCTV was installed at the entrance of a residential society nearby, but apparently it didn't capture clear images of the attackers.
 
 Police officials agree that in majority of the cases the miscreants followed same modus operandi. "We have seen this that in majority of the cases of attacks on religious leaders in Ludhiana, two-wheelers have been used. However in case of Mata Chand Kaur, the miscreants were not masked," said Ludhiana police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh. He added that though not of all of these cases were of Ludhiana, Khanna and Jalandhar have witnessed similar crimes, they were taking steps to stop their repetition. 
 
 
