NEW DELHI: India's 'special' athletes have once again done the country proud. They have raked in a rich haul of medals in the   held in Austria including 37 gold. The team for specially-abled sportspersons of the Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) not only competed with 2,600 athletes from over 105 countries, but also won a total of 73 medals. The victorious delegation will return to India on March 26. In the event, held in Austria between March 18 and March 24, a total of 37 gold, 10 silver and 26 bronze medals were added to India's kitty. The games included seven disciplines including Alpine Skiing, Snow Boarding, Snow Shoeing, Figure Skating, Speed Skating, Floor Hockey, Floor Ball (and Unified floor Ball), at the mega event.
 
 While three team events-Floor Hockey (male), Unified Floorball and Traditional Floorball-logged in 30 gold medals, the highest number in a single day, the 'special' women hockey team also collected 16 bronze medals. The Unified Floorball (Male) event won gold in a match against SO Nigeria. Floor Hockey came next where the team of male athletes clashed with SO Lithuania defeating them 7-2. An unbelievable excitement reverberated as India won 8-0 against Austria bagging its third gold all in a day, sky rocketing the medal tally to 73 on the last day of the games.
  
 Other 'special athletes' fared well in Alpine skiing raking in a total of 10 medals including 3 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze. They were closely followed by sportspersons participating showcasing their talent in Snowboarding with 8 medals including 4 gold, 2 silver and 2 bronze medals. Athletes participating in Snow Shoeing also fared well with a total of 5 medals including 2 silver and 3 bronze. Speed and figure skating collected 4 medals with 3 silver and 1 bronze. 
  
 While Punjab lad   opened the medal tally for India at the world winter games after they were thrown open on March 18, Himachal young woman Megha also created history by becoming the first Indian to win a gold medal in the games which were held in Graz, Schladming and Ramsau in Austria. This 20-year-old bagged the gold for Alpine Skiing clocking a time of 1 min, 3.11 seconds beating her rivals, USA and Romania. She later picked a silver for the same discipline. Shamsher picked up a silver and later a bronze during the games. 
  
 Other athletes, too, shone through their performance at the games. Intensive training and hard work paid off for 11 sportspersons. They each picked up two medals during the games.   another 'special-list' from Himachal hauled two golds for Snowboarding. Despite intellectual disabilities and severe speech impairment, Sanjay's enthusiasm towards sports propelled him to excel. A student of   in Chamba, he joined SOB in 2008. His coach Nitika Sharma attributed his success to his discipline and devotion to the sport besides unending support of his father, who earns a meager Rs 750 per month. Believing in him, Sanjay's school has also employed him as a peon making him self-reliant and more confident. 
  
 According to the officials of the SOB, for each victorious athlete, winning a medal was a sight to behold. "Our athletes have put in real hard work into winning these medals. At the games they also interacted with the other participants, finding a special connection, which made them very happy," said chairman, Special Olympics Bharat, Air Marshal (Retd) Denzil Keelor. "Our team of specially abled has truly embodied what SOB stands for- to keep trying and emerge triumphant despite the odds," he added.
 
 
