PUNE: A controversy has erupted over the   of   for drawing the chariot of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj before the Wari (annual procession) that begins from Alandi on June 17.

 The annual Wari is a centuries-old tradition followed by the Warkari sect. In June every year, the Palkhi starts from Alandi and reaches Pandharpur via Pune in 22 days.
 
 The bulls to draw the chariot are chosen after a bidding process by farmers, for which Shri Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan Trust (SDMST) had formed a special Bulls Selection Committee (BSC) in 1981.
 
 Last year, the former chief of Alandi Municipal Council (AMC), Rahul Chitalkar, had submitted his proposal of providing the bulls to the BSC. This proposal was unanimously accepted by BSC members then.
 
 However on April 29, the BSC again called a meeting and scrapped the Chitalkar’s proposal. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Chitalkar said, “It is shocking for me as the committee did not take me into confidence before cancelling my proposal. Also, they did not give me any valid reason for the same, prompting me to file a petition in the Khed court last month.”
 
 The prosecution lawyer, Dharmendra Pardeshi, said, the Civil Judge Junior Division, AV Katkar will hear the matter on June 5. “Even though the matter is sub judice, the BSC has gone ahead and declared another person’s name for providing the bulls for the Palkhi procession. We are going to submit a fresh application in the court in this regard,” Pardeshi said.
 
 On the other hand, BSC president Dattoba Kurhade said though the BSC had considered Chitalkar’s application, it was not the final decision. When prodded further, Kurhade said, “Traditionally, the right to provide the bulls for the chariot was restricted to only seven families in the village. This is the reason we had to cancel the Chitalkar’s proposal as it would have meant breaking the age-old tradition.”
 
 Meanwhile, president of SDMST Ajit Kulkarni termed the issue as “unfortunate”. He said, “It is unfortunate to have such an issue ahead of the Palkhi. Currently, the matter is pending in the court and we will abide by the ruling as and when it comes.”
 
 
