THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state tourism department is all set to connect Bolgatty Island and   with a modern boat cruise service for tourists. The new service will have two cruise boats with a seating capacity of 100 each. The project, estimated at Rs 2 crore, is one among the department’s various ‘destination development projects’ that has secured  .

  “Both Bolgatty – an attractive picnic spot which is a short boat ride away from the mainland – and Fort Kochi are major tourist attractions, and connecting these two places in a befitting manner would significantly augment the overall experience of visitors,” said a tourism official. The project will be implemented with the aid of KTDC (Kerala Tourism Development Corporation) within a period of 18 months.
 
  Other   – which have received administrative sanction to be executed by KTDC in a similar timeframe – are upgrading   at Kovalam for Rs 3 crore and establishing fine class facilities at KTDC’s properties in Thekkady – Periyar House and Aranya Nivas at Rs 2.64 crore.
 
  Under the project, Samudra Beach, one among the three crescent-shaped beaches in Kovalam (the other two being Light House Beach and Hawah Beach) will witness landscape readjustment, sand filling and rubble cutting works besides upgradation or establishment of other components including steel fencing, slab culvert, e-toilet, parking facilities, swimming pool and drivers’ rest house.
 
  A new double-decker safari boat with a seating capacity for 100 persons (estimated at Rs 1 crore) will be provided to Aranya Nivas in Thekkady replacing the existing one. KTDC properties at the destination will undergo works for various components including buggy parking, bicycle parking, landscaping, security cabin and signage. The works will be undertaken after obtaining clearance from the forest department.
 
  Meanwhile, the government has also accorded administrative sanction (in principle) to seven projects for which the estimated cost is Rs 362 crore. They will be forwarded to Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB) for financial assistance. The projects are a 3-star hotel complex in SIHMS campus in Kozhikode (Rs 55 crore), a 3-star beach resort at Muzhappilangad in Kannur (Rs 45.6 crore), Chethi beach development in Alappuzha (Rs 49.6 crores), Iringal Sargaalaya integrated tourism circuit in Kozhikode (Rs135 crore), Kanjirapuzha dam in Palakkad (Rs 15 crore), Thenmala dam in Kollam (Rs 29.5 crore) and Neyyar dam in Thiruvananthapuram (Rs 32 crore).
 
  KTDC has been chosen as the SPV (special purpose vehicle) for two projects, while Kerala Tourism Infrastructure Limited be the SPV for the other five projects.
 
