SANGAM (ALLAHABAD): Braving the chilly weather, lakhs of devotees and kalpwasis took a holy dip at Sangam on the occasion of Paush Purnima on Thursday. The mela administration claimed that around 40 lakh devotees took the snan. 

 On the first day of the mela, as many as 70 tourists also enjoyed the aerial view of Magh Mela from the chopper. 
 
 With   snan, the month-long austerity period for kalpwasis has also started. During this period, kalpwasis living in tents, would listen to religious discourses, giving alms, eat once a day and perform ritual baths daily to seek salvation. 
 
 The magh administration has constructed 17 ghats. The devotees and pilgrims found enough space to perform the rituals. The Jal Police tried to control the crowd. District magistrate   said that devotees began to congregate on the banks from early in the morning and started entering the Ganga for holy dips. The bathing continued till evening. 
 
 Since the number of devotees kept on swelling, policemen kept on asking devotees not to spend too much time on 17 ghats. The chilly weather could not dampen the enthusiasm and spirit of the devotees. Many of them have arrived from across the country and abroad to witness the confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati amid chanting of ‘Har Har Gange’. 
 
 The first snan of Magh Mela passed off peacefully. SSP   said that elaborate security arrangements were made at all static points and cops had maintained a close watch on the mela campus. Around 3,000 policemen, including battalions of PAC, were deployed.
 
 The volunteers of ‘bhoole bhatke shivir’ reunited as many as 60 people with their families. 
 
 Asked what the holy dip meant to him and his family, Pratapgarh-based Arun Kumar said, “When one comes on the banks of Ganga, then he/she realises the inner strength. This is themain reason which attracts millions of devotees. Devotion helps people to overcome their worries and helps to cure diseases.”
 
  from Satna said, “The sangam of faith and spirituality can be seen here.”
 
 
