Actor   has begun the shoot for his upcoming international film The Extraordinary Journey of the fakir directed by  . The film stars Dhanush in the lead and the shoot for the same began this week. The film is based on The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir who got trapped in an IKEA wardrobe by  . The screen play of the film is by Puertolas and   (Brio films) and has a conglomeration of production houses from 3 different continents. The shooting has commenced earlier this month and is expected to be shot in Mumbai (India), Brussels (Belgium), Rome (Italy) and Paris (France).

 Producer Luc Bossi of Brio Films says, “The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir” is also an out of the ordinary production adventure, creating through its producers, locations and talent a unique bridge between India, Europe and Hollywood. It's cast reunites actors from more than 15 countries and an International Indo-French-Belgian-Italian crew with a common passion and goal: Tell a universal story full of laughs and emotions.”
 Speaking about the film, actor Dhanush says, “So happy to be a part of this film with collaborators from 3 continents, looking forward to an extraordinary journey ahead.” Taking the enthusiasm further, director Ken Scott adds, "I'm super excited to be working with Dhanush who is so talented and great to work with.”
 
 Starring Dhanush in the titular role of the fakir, the film, as the name suggests, marks an extraordinary journey in the life of Aja aka   (Dhanush). After the death of his mother – the Fakir takes on a journey to track down his father – a man he never knew. The quest takes him to Paris and soon, he realizes his destination is all set to change his journey. From falling in love to brushing shoulders with a Hollywood star, to dodging hit-men and being held as a hostage in a bureaucratic war the Fakir’s life goes hilariously awry the moment he steps into Parisian soil, despite his best intentions. The film has music by Nicolas Errera, while Amit Trivedi has composed two Hindi songs in the film. 
 
 
