CHENNAI: A two-and-a-half-year-old girl, seeing off her older sister as she left for school, died after the bus her sister boarded ran over her near Medavakkam on Tuesday morning.

 Samiksha, a resident of Vembuliamman Koil Street in Gowrivakkam, accompanied her sister, Tataksha, a Class I student, to the gate of their house while she was leaving for school by bus when the accident took place, investigators said.
 
 Samiksha’s mother Easwari, a homemaker, told police officers that the bus came to pick up Tataksha at 8.50am as usual, when the accident occurred.
 
 “As soon as the bus arrived and the driver honked, Samiksha, who was having breakfast, ran to the gate,” an investigating officer said. “Easwari was helping Tataksha board the bus. She had handed over the school bag to the child and did not see Samiksha standing nearby.”
 
 “Easwari usually bolted the gate to prevent Samiksha from wandering out,” he said. “On Tuesday, however, the gate was open because she did not see the child outside near the bus.”
 
 Neither did the bus driver. As soon as Tataksha got on, he accelerated and the bus crushed Samiksha, who fell under the vehicle’s wheels.
 
 “She died on the spot,” the officer said.
 
 Easwari heard Samiksha cry out and tried to rescue her. With the help of some neighbours, Easwari rushed Samiksha to a hospital nearby and then to  , where doctors declared her dead on arrival.
 
 Angry neighbours dragged the driver — who police identified as Chandrasekaran — out of the bus and tried to beat him up. But he extricated himself and fled. The Chromepet traffic police registered a case under   304A (causing death due to negligence), seized the vehicle and launched a search for the driver.
 
 “Because Samiksha was so small and was close to the vehicle, the driver probably could not see her from his seat in the bus,” the investigating officer said. “We have seized his licence and formed special teams to nab him.”
 
 Samiksha’s father Sudakaran, an employee of a private company, was away at work at the time.
 
 “Samiksha was an active child and we loved her,” Kanchana, a neighbour, said. “She was so lively that her mother would at times have to hold her tight to prevent her from rushing to the road.”
 
 Officials at the school Tataksha attended had leased the bus from a private firm to transport children, the officer said.
 
 
