BHIWANDI: Four persons died and three were injured after their speeding car jumped the divider and dashed into a   bus near Mankoli, on the   on Tuesday morning.

 Narpoli police said seven people were travelling in a five-seater Honda City. A preliminary probe revealed the driver lost control and rammed into a divider and hit a TMT bus coming from opposite direction, killing four on the spot. The deceased were identified as Neeraj Panchal (23), Vikrant Singh (24), Mihir Uttekar (23), Neerav Mehta (23). The injured were identified as Vaibhav Chedha (24), Ramesh Patel (22), Santosh Mishra (24). Chedha and Patel who suffered serious injuries were admitted to   while Mishra, who suffered minor injuries, was admitted to Samta Hospital in Dombivli.
 
 All seven worked as engineers in a Kurla-based IT company. On Monday night they had gone to a common friend’s residence in Dombivli to celebrate Panchal’s birthday. They stayed overnight at the friend’s place and left next morning for office. Around 10.30am, the car reached Mankoli naka on the Mumbai-Nashik highway where it went out of control and hit the divider, crossing the road to then hit a TMT bus coming from Thane towards Bhiwandi.
 
 Vijay Bhise, a police inspector who was on his way to work witnessed the incident. “On seeing the   I immediately informed the Narpoli police and with help from locals rushed the injured and deceased in private cars to Thane civil hospital,” he said. The civil hospital staff said the youngsters had severe head injuries and were bleeding profusely all over the face. 
 
 Pandarinath Bhalerao, inspector from Narpoli, said, “The primary probe shows the car was in full speed and lost control. A case of rash driving and negligence causing death has been registered against the deceased Singh, who was driving the car.” 
 
 A relative of one of the victims said, “To Neeraj Panchal’s birthday at midnight on Monday, the four youngsters visited a friend’s house in Dombivli. By the time their party was over it was quite late, so they crashed at the same place for the night. In the morning, they decided to go directly to office from there. The birthday had started off in a joyful way but ended up as a nightmare for all.”
 
 
