A new top grosser has emerged in Sandalwood. Puneeth's   is now the highest grossing film at the Karnataka box office.

 The film's theatrical collections in the state is expected to cross Rs 50 crore shortly, making it the first   film to achieve this distinction. In the seventh week, the film is estimated to have already grossed over `46 crore at the box office with a net producer's share of Rs 31 crore.
 
 With the film continuing its good show at several theatres, it is expected to cross the Rs 50 crore mark soon. The film is expected to get a share between Rs 33-35 crore to the filmmakers in its final run.
 
 Raajakumara has overtaken Mr & Mrs Ramachari and the decade-old  , which now make up the top three.
 
 There have been films before 2001 which have had more ticket sales than the current toppers in the last 17 years. But due to the huge differences in ticket prices back then and the absence of multiplexes, the money collected by them do not match up.  , which was released in 2000, and Om, which was released in 1995, have had higher viewership than all the films in the top BO collection list now. Even Jogi (2005) had a higher number of audience than most of these films.
 
 
  
 
 Distributor and producer Bhogendra says the growth of multiplexes and rise of ticket prices has a lot to do with recent films having a bigger box office collection. “Earlier, films used to have long runs and more people watched it. Now, even with lesser number of tickets sold, the box office collections are more. If the same number of people had watched Jogi after 10, it would have been a bigger commercial hit,“ he said.
 
 Distributor Mars Suresh said: “If you take the box office collections of the 1980s and calculate it to today's rates based on inflation, they would have earned more than these films.Even comparing films from 10 years ago is difficult due to the huge changes in ticket prices and number of multiplexes. The gross to net ratio in single screens was and is 2:1. In multiplexes it is 1:1. But there's a huge difference between the ticket prices in single screens and multiplexes.“
 
 
 
 “There are several low-budget films that went on to make big money. They may not have earned as much as the big films but made more profit for the producers. Some films have made big money at the box office but producers have ended up losing money. If you make a list of films that made big profit to the producers, then we might have to add 6-5=2, Adyaksha, and   will have to be added,“ says Suresh.
 
 The reason for most films in the list being from the last five years is because of multiplexes and the rise of the star influence in opening weekend collections. Multiplexes have been a boon to all films but especial ly the so called offbeat and parallel films.
 
 Rama Rama Re and Thithi could not have been commercial hits without multiplexes. Ulidavaru Kandante made 90% of its collections at multiplexes and only 10 per cent from single screens. “Comparing box office collections of films only for the last five years would be a better thing to do from now on. The real boom started 5-6 years ago,“ says Suresh.
 
