AHMEDABAD: The dreaded avian flu or   has again reared its head in Ahmedabad city. This is the second coming of the H5N1 virus in Gujarat, while the first was reported in 2006.

 The state animal husbandry department on Tuesday confirmed that seven samples from bird carcasses and three blood serum samples from live birds, retrieved from birds at the facility of the   at Hathijan, tested positive for bird flu. The samples were sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD) in Bhopal.
 
 The state animal husbandry department has ordered culling of birds at the NGO and on neighbouring farms. 
 
 “According to the   and central govenrment guidelines, all birds at the NGO’s facility will have to be culled. Birds at the four backyard poultry farms near Asha Foundation will also be culled,” Ahmedabad collector   said.
 
 There was major commotion amongst the locals as cops, their faces masked with handkerchiefs, kept the curious people at bay while animal husbandry officials began `operation clean-up’ of culling birds. The state government sounded an alert and declared a 10-km radius from the NGO’s facility in Hathijan a ‘regulated zone’. Any movement of birds, eggs, bird droppings, farm machinery or other equipment will also restricted in this regulated zone.
 
 Director of the state animal husbandry department Dr Hita Patel said, “All birds in a radius of 1 km from the epicentre will be culled as per WHO and central government guidelines. A notice to this effect has been issued to the NGO. Since the birds had been received by Asha Foundation from Crawford Market in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government has been alerted about this as well,” Dr Patel said.
 
 Harmesh Bhatt, founder of Asha Foundation said, “An animal lover rescued 80 guineafowl and 40 turkeys from Crawford Market in Mumbai. As he did not have space, these birds were given to us for lodging in Ahmedabad. Three days ago, we realized that seven turkeys had died. Sensing something amiss, we informed the animal husbandry department, which sent the samples to Bhopal.” 
 
 Bhatt insisted that the 120 birds brought from Mumbai were kept in isolation and had not mingled with birds rescued from other places. “There are around 1,000 odd-birds in the infected area, which also include the 800 guineafowl rescued from Vastral on Monday,” said Bhatt.
 
 The animal husbandry department officials said all birds in the infected area will be culled as no risk should be taken in dealing with the dreaded H5N1 virus, which is known to have a high mortality rate.
 
