Nagpur: Four cartoonists of Cartoon Zone, a registered group of cartoonists from Vidarbha, organized a two-day exhibition of their artworks at Divisional Information Centre, Sitabuldi. Comprising around 100 cartoons on diverse social and political issues, the exhibition was inaugurated on Friday morning on the occasion of World Cartoon Day. It will be open on Saturday from 10am to 5pm. The cartoons of Vinay Chanekar, Shashikant Sapre, Rajiv Gaikwad and Ghanshyam Deshmukh touched contemporary social and national topics. One painting shows ministers telling a beggar that a direct transfer would be made to his bank account. One painting shows a newly married women being labelled as ‘Mrs’ by her husband. The cartoons also touched topics like India Pakistan relations, the tussle between BJP and Shiv Sena in Mumbai, Mumbai floods and the undying spirit of Mumbaikars and the wrong weather predictions by IMD. One cartoon juxtaposed ‘Z’ security being provided to both, a politician and a thief. Inaugurating the exhibition, poet Sudhakar Gaidhani said that a cartoonist is a messenger who conveys pertinent issues to the public and his works never die. It focuses on issues which need attention, and goes on to show the power of pen. “The birth of cartoons took place during the times of adivasis itself, and after 18th century, noted names such as RK Laxman, Shankar Pillai, Bal Saheb Thackeray came to be revered. Cartoons are a form of language, and their power keeps forcing the world to ponder and reflect,” he said. Cartoonist Gaikwad discussed the diminishing freedom of expression, and how satire and cartoons should be taken in a lighter vein. “Even Gandhiji used to laugh at his own cartoons. But today, people are increasingly taking unwarranted offence. Cartoonists have the freedom to make a comment, and we need tolerance to accept diverse views. We know our limitations.” Sapre praised Chanekar for his efforts in promoting cartoonists and acknowledged that the movement was getting recognition. The exhibition also includes demonstrations by the cartoonists for interested candidates. The idea is to create awareness about the importance of cartoons and give the movement a boost by engaging the new generation, says Chanekar. Cartoon Zone, which was formed six years ago, regularly organizes talks, demonstrations and workshops. This is the second year of the exhibition. 