CHANDIGARH: For the 50th season, gods and demons are back to fire up the festive spirit of Chandigarh. The Sector-28 Garhwal   Mandal Bijli Board, which in 1968 staged the first Ramlila in the city, is ready for its golden-jubilee show.

 In 1966, when   was divided yet again, the members of the   received the option to go over to  . Those who took it were shifted to Chandigarh from Patiala and settled in Sector 28B. The city wasn’t fully developed then and cultural and traditional activities were rare. “Our members from Garhwal (region of Uttarakhand), who were missing Ramlila, gathered under the leadership of Jawahar Singh Rawat and formed this group,” mandal’s director Mukesh Sharma said.
 
 Talking about initial problems, Mukesh said: “The main issue was of money. The members contributed Rs 5 to 50 each and bought the stage material. They fashioned costumes and props such as bows and arrows, spears, swords and maces on their own. They also gathered money from residents and erected the first stage.”
 
 For golden-jubilee show, the mandal has decorated the entire Ramlila ground, created a song, and got a magazine out on its journey of 50 years. It prepares to give away lifetime achievement award to its only surviving founder member, Sohan Singh Gosain, besides Varinder Singh Gosain, Bjagwan Singh Bisht, and Balbir Singh Gosain—who have been part of the team for more than 40 years and belong to the families of founders.
 
 For the first time, the mandal will organise Dussehra. “So far, we haven’t been but from now we will hold it every year,” Sharma said. In 50 years, this traditional theatre has undergone a big change, and the number of the city’s Ramlila committees has also increased. New scenes, language, and styles of presenting have come in. The prompting of dialogues has stopped in maximum scenes.
 
 Better lighting and doing away with the traditional backdrop curtains has given the stage the look of a professional theatre. Excessive make-up has given way to simple touch-up. The costumes are less garish, and every year a scene relevant to the current scenario is inserted in the script. The group has people from all walks of life and a variety of religions.
 
 “Change is a must with times. The earliest Ramlila script was in Persian or Urdu, which if we use today, most of the youngsters will not understand. It was oriented towards entertainment but, in the age of television, mobile, and internet, we have made it educational. Ramlila is an education in   to many youngsters,” Mukesh said.
 
 This is also one of the first groups to bring in women to play female characters. And they have one of the maximum numbers of women among the cast.
 
