NEW DELHI: India's Baloch offensive might be on a slow burner for a while as it watches whether small hints of a thaw after the change of guard at the Pakistan army headquarters and at the ISI could open space for PM Nawaz   to improve bilateral ties.

 This could mean a decision on Baloch leader Brahamdagh Bugti’s application for political asylum in India may have to wait a few more months as the security establishment evaluates if a possible reorientation of  's policy towards terrorism and India comes about. 
 
 Sources in the Indian security establishment indicated that there were some signs of willingness on part of the Nawaz Sharif government to rework ties with India, strained in view of major terror attacks by Pakistan-based outfits and India’s retaliatory cross-border strikes last year.
 
 With the taking over of new Pakistan Army chief   in December last year along with naming of Lt Gen Naveed Mukhtar as the new DG, ISI, Indian agencies see temperatures coming down a bit. There is relief that Gen Raheel Sharif, seen as an obstacle to political intiatives, is out of the scene. 
 
 “Nawaz Sharif certainly enjoys a better comfort level with Gen Bajwa and Lt Gen Mukhtar, as compared to their predecessors Gen Raheel Sharif and Lt Gen Rizwan Akhtar. The latter were seen as roadblocks in past efforts to resume normal ties with Delhi. In fact, the major terror attacks including ones at Udhampur, Pathankot and Uri as well as the escalation in cross border firing and shelling on the western border was perceived as a ploy to pre-empt any peace moves,” said an intelligence officer based in Delhi. 
 
 The ISI and terror outfits like Lashkar and Jaish played a major role in fuelling protests in Kashmir after the encounter death of Hizbul leader Burhan Wani. The events saw the Sharif government also up the ante, seeking to internationalise the events. However, both the foreign policy and ISI-sponsored moves did not get Pakistan much traction. Rather a report leaked out on the civilian leadership telling the Army brass that support to terrorism was backfiring on Pakistan in international forums.
 
 The new Pakistan Army chief is Nawaz Sharif's choice and is understood to have a more moderate view regarding military’s relationship with the civilian regime, an intelligence source said. There is a family relationship with the PM as well. There is, sources concede, only so much that can be expected from a change of military leadership as the Army has an entrenched view of India as the ideological enemy framed in religious terms.
 
 “The assessment is that helped by a more accomodative military leadership, Sharif will look to rescue the troubled ties with India. For instance, there has been no major terror attack by Pakistan-based outfits for over a month now. The return of a BSF soldier who had strayed across the LoC in September and was captured by Pakistani forces is an encouraging sign. said an officer. The proof will now lie in an appropriate gesture from Islamabad.
 
 Until then, the Modi government is not willing to rush into a decision on Baloch leader Bugti’s asylum request. "Lets us wait for Nawaz Sharif government to firm up its stand vis a vis ties with India, in consultation with the new military leadership,” said an officer. 
 
 Sources however expect Pakistan's steps to be measured, with some spoilers along the way.
 
 Bugti, who is president and founder of Baloch Republican Party, had applied for asylum in India in September last year through the Indian embassy in Geneva, where he is currently based. His asylum request is clearly a card the India will continue to hold as it waits to see how Pakistan moves.The grandson of Nawab Akbar  , a Baloch nationalist leader killed by the Pakistan Army in 2006, he had escaped to Geneva via Afghanistan in 2010.
 
 
