 in Tamil Nadu are rife with specu lation that the political dynamics in Tamil Nadu might undergo a dramatic change after the   on Monday .

 The moment MLAs and MPs from the ruling party cast their votes in the presidential polls, BJP's dependence on AIADMK will significantly come down, while that of the AIADMK would grow. The perception that the changed equations might result in BJP pulling strings overtly has gained currency .
 
 Political pundits agree that the BJP-AIADMK equation might change to an extent if not dramatically and thereby alter the Centre's approach to wards the state. “From a patronizing stand, BJP might adopt a carrot and stick policy ,'' says political analyst Ramu Manivannan.
 
 But Manivannan says the BJP would never come hard on AIADMK after the presidential election. “There is no need for it. All the three factions of AIADMK are already under the control of BJP . Only if there is resistance, is there the need to be tough,'' Manivannan says. BJP and AIADMK partymen agree with the view.
 
 Politicians from both the parties say that for sure, the BJP would not want AIADMK government to collapse, as DMK leaders insist it would. If at all the BJP wants to expand its presence in Tamil Nadu and run its writ in the government, it would need a dispensation that is 'accommodative'. Destabilising the government would invariably benefit DMK, a situation that BJP doesn't want to happen. “The centre will never dissolve a democratically elected government,''   said during his recent visit to Chennai. Nevertheless, BJP leaders might turn out to be more assertive in the state.
 
 BJP would want AIADMK to remain without a strong leader for it to exercise control over the party .“AIADMK was raised like a fearful child. Psychologically they need a strong parent figure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's extraordinary leadership appears to give him that space within Aiadmk,'' said a state BJP leader, not willing to be named.
 
 The BJP apparently is not interested in the intra party rivalry in AIADMK and wants the factions to sort out the issue themselves. That leaves former CM and factional leader O Panneerselvam to fend for himself.
 
 The status quo might change if there are attempts within the AIADMK for emergence of such a strong leader.“EPS and OPS have failed to provide that leadership. Dhinakaran emerged to be one, but BJP clipped his wings. So none within the party would dare to challenge BJP," said an   from western region. BJP state treasurer  , however, said the Centre would extend more support after the polls. “We want every state to grow for national development. We will guide and support the state government more,'' he said.
 
