Tirunelveli: One person died and six others, including two boys were injured in a fireworks blast that occurred at a temple festival in Surandai in Tirunelveli district in the early hours of Tuesday. 

 The accident took place when a firework fell on a pile of crackers that were kept ready for lighting. The Tirunelveli district police said that three of the victims were badly injured and hospitalised while the remaining escaped with minor injuries. Six people, who organised the festival were arrested.
 
 Police said the incident took place when crackers were lit for the Kaliamman temple festival located at Kadayalurutti village. Preliminary investigation revealed that organisers of the festival bought the crackers from Sivakasi. The fireworks, including rockets were piled up close to the temple from where they could be lit to entertain the public.
 
 S Ganapathy, 57, of Ammankoil Street in Varagaranathapuram, was lighting the fireworks at around 4am when one a rocket he lit, accidentally fell on the stock of crackers nearby. As all those crackers went off at the same time Ganapathy who was standing next to it succumbed to severe burn injuries on the spot. His body was taken to the Tenkasi government hospital for postmortem, and handed over to his family in the evening.
 
 The three people who were badly injured were identified as J Sudalai alias Suresh, 28, whose condition was said to be critical, Ram Kumar, 17 and Jambulingam alias Sami, 17, who had come to witness the festival. They are being treated in the intensive care unit of the government hospital. Three others who escaped with minor injuries were treated as outpatients.
 
 Surandai police registered a case under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304(A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating.
 
 Police and fire and rescue services department personnel are trying to ascertain the cause of the fire accident. Samples of fireworks were collected for chemical analysis.
 
 Inspector A Perumal said that six temple committee members including P Arunachalam, 73, M Namachivayam, 41, C Mariappan, 38 and G Murugesan, 46, who had organised the festival were arrested in connection with the incident on charges of negligence to ensure safety of the public.
 
 
