She comes from a typical Rajput family that we see in soap operas, and that is the reason why acting in a Bollywood movie seemed like a distant dream to Kirori Mal College’s alumna  . She was an ECA entrant for dramatics at the college and was part of Players, one of the most coveted theatre societies in DU. She recently played Ginni, Bhumi Pednekar’s best friend in ' ' and is getting noticed for her work. Anshul talks to us about her journey from Noida to the entertainment industry, her party tales in   Village and why KMC will always be special for her.

 
  
  
 Anshul Chauhan (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 
 Anshul studied in a Noida school and completed her graduation from KMC in 2014. Hauz Khas Village was like a second home for her when she was studying in Delhi. She said, "The last time I came to Hauz Khas was six months back. I was here with my friends and with my brother. I prefer coming here with my male friends or my brother because of security issues. You get to hear of so many incidents about Hauz Khas and that’s why I don’t want to risk anything," she says, adding, "After practising late night for Players in DU, I would collect eatables from a grocery store and head to the Hauz Khas Fort with my friends. We used to chill here late at night. Lake-side view pe baithte thay, aaram se batein karte thay aur khana khate thay. Subah bahut crowded hota hai toh raat ko hi aana chahiye yahan."
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Talking about how she gained admission in KMC, she said, "I got through KMC only because of my ECA auditions. I scored 71% in my XII and my subject was Science, but I did not wish to pursue engineering. One day, I saw an article in the newspaper about the ECA trials and I have always been very inclined towards acting so I thought of trying my luck. I got selected for auditions at Ramjas and KMC. Ramjas mein semi-finals tak pahunch gayi thi but I failed to make it to the finals. After two days, KMC happened. I was waiting since eight in the morning for my turn and at 5pm I was called for the first round. Since it was getting late my parents were calling me constantly asking me to return home, but I waited there for the results to be announced till late in the evening. Finally, Keval Arora, staff advisor of Players, came out and said in front of everyone, 'Anshul Chauhan, stand up.' He asked, 'Isse puchho, kya kiya hai isne?' He was so impressed by my performance that he appreciated me in public. And this is how I got English (Hons) at KMC. People do not know this but this course changes your life, the way you look at things and the way you think. With that, I was also doing dramatics, studying human behaviour, wahan se mera badlaav start ho gaya. And then my parents also started believing in me," she says. 
 
  She adds, "KMC has been such a blessing to me, and thankfully we have such great alumni. I have done some advertisements and I have also had my theatre experience there. Through my seniors at Players, I had given auditions at many places in Mumbai. They are the ones who informed me about Shubh Mangal's audition."
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Anshul, who has done just one film, understands the hard work that she has to put in to get lead roles. "I want to do lead roles. People like me, who are just beginning their career in the film industry, will have to make a plan to get lead roles. I believe that once you make a mark, even in a small role, people will start approaching you. I really wish to work with directors like   again, Anurag Kashyap and Abhishek Chaubey."
 
  
 
 Talking about her Noida connection, she adds, "Brahmaputra Market is one place that I always visit. It has a variety of amazing street food. All the new malls that have come up are great for shopping, so now there is no need to go to Delhi for that. Though I love Noida, but living in Mumbai has made me realize that I can live more freely there, I would never feel the same about Noida. I wish people in Noida would be more responsible and calmer. For instance, how people react to small things, especially when stuck in traffic. The way people deal with each other can be a bit more endearing."
 
 
