JAIPUR: Smart mobility in the   remains a far cry as the   (JSML) has failed to implement proposed projects under the smart city mission. 

 Out of 10 proposed  , the JSML has failed to initiate a single project in the past nine months.
 
 While orders for the public bicycle sharing scheme have been issued and work is expected to start from April 1 (2017), the other smart mobility projects under the areas-based developed (ABD) will only be initiated on the second anniversary of smart city. 
 
 Local-self government (LSG) principal secretary   in January announced in Jaipur that 50 projects worth Rs 821 crore under smart city project will be completed in the current financial year. Such projects also include 10 projects of smart mobility. However, nothing has been done in this regard so far. 
 
 An official informed, under the smart mobility plan the JSML has to take up projects such as footpath development, carriageway improvements including bus shelters for providing universal access, e-rickshaw stands, intelligent IPT (auto & taxi) stands, signage and marking, road infrastructure along with major corridor for non-motorized transport modes including segregated cycle tracks, digital signage specially designed boards with smart features (variable Message sign board) for traffice/tourism, intelligent traffic management system-synchronised traffic signals for optimum traffic flow , intelligent parking at Jaleb Chowk, Badi Chaupar, Ramniwas Bagh and seven on street parking . 
 
 “Majority of projects are likely to be started after June 25. The JSML should have initiated these projects as these are easy to implement,” said an official source. 
 
 Other than this , under smart heritage and tourism the JSML also have to implement 11 projects. However, work for only two projects have been taken by the mission. 
 
 Official source said, “Detailed project report (DPR) for   redevelopment high quality laser water show and Redevelopment of Govind Dev Ji temple is under preparation. Work for Ramniwas Bagh Improvement has been completed.” 
 
