CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government and police face a major test on Sunday when Jat community leaders step up their agitation by observing 'Balidan Diwas' in memory of those killed during the violent quota agitation last February.

 Having learnt their lessons, the authorities this time plan to keep a watch on the agitators from the sky. However, no traffic advisory has been issued.
 
 Sources said security agencies will add teeth to their surveillance through satellite images procured from the Haryana Space Research Application Centre (HSPAC).They will also use drones to keep an eye on protesters at sit-in sites and sensitive spots in Rohtak, Hisar, Jhajjar and Bhiwani. Paramilitary forces have also been deployed at all protest venues.
 
 Four companies of BSF troops from Agroha Camp were provided satellite images of Magyar, Ramayan and Hansi area. The maximum deployment of troops is in the Hansi area. Four companies of paramilitary forces were deployed in Hisar till Saturday morning. The district administration has asked for two more companies.
 
 “We have put all measures in place to ensure smooth movement of traffic, both on roads as well as rail. All calls made to police control on 100 will be dealt with promptly,“ said Haryana's additional director general of police Muhammad Akil. He said strict action would be taken against those indulging in rumourmongering. In Gurgaon, 28 duty magis trates and three sub-divisional magistrates (SDM) have been appointed as nodal officers to ensure there is no disruption. Though there is only one sit-in site in the city, near Daultabad flyover, authorities are not taking any chances.SDM Sushil Sarwan will be present at the site when the demonstrators gather.
 
 “We will keep 20 police companies on standby in the district to deal with any law and order situation. These in clude five companies with DCPs and 15 companies with the ACPs. Since each company has around 100 cops, we will have over 2,000 policemen to guard Gurgaon on Sunday,“ said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (west).
 
 “We will use gigapixel imagery, which can capture in agery , which can capture incredible amount of detail in a single photo, to keep a tab on the demonstrators. It will also help us keep a record of who all were part of the crowd in case of any untoward incident,“ a senior police officer said.
 
 The decision to mark `balidan diwas' was announced by the  .
 
 (With inputs from Chetna Choudhry in Gurgaon)
 
