KOLKATA: Baruipur police on Tuesday arrested 12 people for allegedly filling up wetland following a complaint lodged by the   Management Authority (EKWMA). 

 The first complaint was lodged with the Kolkata Leather Complex police station. But jadavpur deputy commissioner (south suburban division) found the land in question is in mouza Kalikapur, which falls under Sonarpour police station. Immediately, Sonarpur police station, which comes under the jurisdiction of Baruipur police district, was alerted.
 
 “The arrests were made since there was a violation of Section 18 of EKWMA Act, 2006. The arrested people will be produced in the court,” said Baruipur SP Arijit Saha. 
 
 During a field study in 2014, 60 of the 264 bheris present in 2002 (when   was declared a Ramsar site) could not be traced. Three years on, eight more bheris covering more than 650 acres have either disappeared completely or partially. 
 
 The complaint lodged by the EKWMA chief technical officer revealed that wetlands were being filled up by some miscreants across five mouzas. In the complaint, he named Motilal Mondal and Biswajit Biswas.
 
 While water from   in Mukundapur mouja has been drained, filled up with earth and plots are now on sale, draining is underway at the wetland in Jagatipota mouja. 
 
 On Tuesday, land sharks are gobbling up bheris in the East Kolkata Wetland at an alarming rate. The largest of them is the 218.4-acre Narkeltala bheri in   mouja under Bidhannagar South police station. One daag number has been encroached upon and its sale has been publicly announced. The 177.5-acre Chinta Singh Bheri has been encroached upon while the 50-acre Durgabhhasan Bheri is now a cluster of small ponds and paddy fields.
 
 Locals said the word doing the round was that illegal construction in the belt would soon be legalised as mayor and environment minister   has already announced his intent to allow mutation of plots in EKW. Though EKWMA has filed FIR on the disappearance of bheris following pressure from wetland action groups, it made no attempts to reclaim the plots and restore the waterbodies.
 
