With barely a day to go for the Lovers’ Day, city youngsters are high on mush and adrenaline rush. But all those, who plan to wear their emotions on their sleeve, better watch out. City cops are on alert to ensure that love potion doesn’t overflow to create a law and order situation in Nagpur…

 
 
 Giving an update on the   preparations, Commissioner of Police   shares, “There will be patrolling vans at identified spots. Also, there will be Damini Squads dressed as college girls, looking out for any lurking molesters. The eve-teasers will also not find it easy to get away with indecent comments or lewd acts, with a lot of decoy teams keeping a watch silently on them.”
 
 
 
 CP categorically points out that his team will minutely look out for all those who indulge in drunken driving on the Valentine’s Day. “We will not spare anyone who indulges in drunken driving because it not only harms you, but also those innocent souls, who have to suffer for no fault of theirs. There will be breath analysers handy with the cops to nab and book the offenders,” says Dr Venkatesh.
 
 
 
 The decoy teams will be using spycams to nab anybody who tries to vitiate the atmosphere in the city, clarifies the CP. “We don’t want to scare anyone from enjoying healthy moments of bonhomie. But, any aspect of merriment that veers towards creating a nuisance for others, will not be brooked,” says he.
 
 
 
 Dr Venkatesh says that cops will adopt a soft approach initially and counsel the youngsters who try to cross the thin line of decency. But if need be, their parents will also be informed. He adds, “My advice to all the youngsters is to think seriously and ask themselves before stepping out, why, where and with whom they are going out. Another serious advice is to inform their parents of their whereabouts, when they party in the evening.”
 
 
 
 In case, any youngster feels — there’s a threat to his/her safety because of anti-social elements, he/she must call the cops on 100, says the CP. He goes on to add, “At every police station and mobile van, alert cops would be positioned to safeguard the people of the city. And help would reach you soon enough.”
 
