Noida: A 19-year-old boy died while bathing in a pond with his friends in D-Park, Noida’s Sector 62, on Thursday. 

 The body of Vishal Kumar, a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad, was fished out from the boating area of the central park by divers.
 
 The family of the deceased said Vishal had left the house in the morning to visit the park with his friends. 
 
 The group of four to five boys decided to bathe in the pond, after it started raining. They said the pond to be about 10-feet-deep. 
 
 “We were bathing in the water but Vishal, an amateur swimmer, went to the middle of the pond. Before we could realise it, he had drowned,” said Aman, Vishal’s friend.
 
 Rahul Kumar, Vishal’s family friend said, the boys informed the security guard soon after Vishal went missing but their friend couldn’t be saved.
 
 “They tried to search for him but could not find him in the water. Aman alerted a security guard who in turn informed the police. The boys then returned home and informed the family members of the deceased about the drowning,” Rahul said.
 
 When the family members of Vishal reached the park, they found the police personnel and divers carrying out the search operation. 
 
 An unconscious Vishal, with a lot of water inside him, was rushed to Fortis hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 A Class IX student of a private school in Khoda Colony, Vishal had shifted there with his family from Varanasi, some years ago. His father Bhushan Kumar works as a tailor in an export company in Sector 58.
 
 Dilip Singh Bisht, SHO Sector 58 police station said the victim’s family has not filed any complaint. “We informed the family members who received the body from the hospital. They said this was an accidental death and did not prefer conducting a post-mortem,” he said. 
 
 The   Authority officials have locked the park after the incident. “We have locked the park after getting information about the incident. We have not received any complaint in this regard,” said a Noida Authority official.
 
 
