BHOPAL: Despite beefed up security measures in jails across   post-jailbreak by   operatives, two accused being tried in rape and murder cases tunnelled out through a wall of a jail in Morena district on Monday afternoon. Four jail guards have been suspended with immediate effect. 

 Two undertrial prisoners lodged in the district jail apparently escaped by removing bricks of the wall in wee hours, police said. The two jail escapees have been identified as Omprakash Jat, 36, and Anil Rathore, 26, facing trials in murder and rape cases. Jail authorities came to know about the incident only after Rathore's relative came to meet him in morning.Jailor BS Mourya told media they had escaped before the roll call. "During the head count on Sunday, the duo was present," he told media. A complaint has been lodged with   in this regard.Chief warder Dattaram and three others identified Ramavtar, Brijendra Singh and Phool Singh on duty during the jail-break have been suspended. The prison authorities in the state have been claiming they have stepped up security after jail-break in Bhopal.
 
 Madhya Pradesh jails are undergoing a major revamp under supervision of three IPS officers: Sanjay Chaudhary, Sudhir Sahi and GR Meena.After the recent jailbreak by alleged SIMI operatives, Madhya Pradesh police shortlisted 71 guards to be trained as "intelligence officers" for a close surveillance on criminal activity inside and outside the prison walls.Many senior officials are of the opinion that intelligence failure led to the sensational incident. "Had there been a proper intelligence network inside the jail, this jailbreak would not have taken place," said an officer.
 
 Sources said 71 guards have been selected from across 51 jails,including some from the   - from where 8 alleged SIMI activists had escaped killing a jail guard in November and got killed in an encounter later.These guards will undergo special training on benefits of effective prison intelligence, which will include surveillance of organised groups within the prison, preventing escapes, riots and unrest besides assessment of various groups influence and interrelationships.
 
 
