Rising defaults from the farm sector and stress from small and medium enterprises (SMEs) have added to the woes of private sector lenders which were already reeling under the rising non-performing assets (NPAs) from infrastructure linked sectors.
 
  Results released last week showed that  's NPAs had risen to the highest in seven years due to slippages linked to the farm sector.   saw deterioration in loans outside its so-called watch list and though   added the slowest amount of NPAs in seven quarters, uncertainty about future additions has clouded the picture for the bank in the current fiscal.
  
  "There is an unequivocal deterioration in the credit quality in the first quarter. The additions in the NPAs in the first quarter are the sharpest increase in the last three years because loans from SME and farm sector have joined the corporate   basket," said Saurabh Mukherjea, CEO, Institutional Equities at Ambit Capital.
  
    Bank's is a case in point. The bank which is known for its clean asset quality reported the highest gross NPAs in seven years mainly due to deterioration of some farm loans even as deputy managing director Paresh Sukthankar said that the bank will have to continue monitoring this portfolio to check further deterioration.
  
  For Axis Bank though fresh slippages at Rs 3,519 crore were the lowest since quarter ended March 2016, around Rs 1,500 crore of these came from outside the so called watch list accounts, raising concerns on future NPA additions for the banks.
  
  However, it is   Bank which worrying analysts even though the bank added Rs 4,975 crore in gross NPAs during the three month ended June 2017, the slowest in seven quarters.
  
  "The total stressed loans for ICICI at 14 per cent are one of the highest among private banks. Comparatively, only 6.5 per cent of Axis' loans are stressed. What is more worrying is the fact that ICICI's provision coverage ratio is low at 41 per cent compared to Axis' 65 per cent. Clearly, ICICI Bank is the lowest in the pecking order among large private sector lenders," said Asutosh Mishra, banking analyst at   Securities.
  
  The stress in ICICI's loan book was evident by the 2.6 per cent year on year growth in the bank's corporate loan book to add to the 25 per cent shrinking in the bank's international loan book which is having a negative impact on the bank's profitability as reflected in the meagre 3 per cent growth in the loan book.
  
  "This also means that ICICI could lose   to well capitalised or better placed lenders like HDFC Bank which will create challenges for it in the future," Mishra said.
  
  Analysts said the subdued profitability and clouded outlook on asset quality are likely to drag the bank down in the current fiscal year. 
