Trichy: Even as most parents want their wards to study in private schools, not many seem to have come forward to claim free seats in private schools under the Right to Education Act. 

 Applications were invited last month to fill 1,675 seats in 111 matriculations school in the entry level, but so far only 275 applications were received. 
 
 As per the   Act, all the private schools have to allocate 25% of their seats to poor students free of cost. Priority should be given to students residing within a radius of 3km. While Thursday was the last date for submitting applications, the state government has extended the date by another week. 
 
 Lack of awareness among parents has been blamed for poor response from public, while the education department says the fact that admissions are made only in the entry level this year is the reason for the dip in number of applications. 
 
 For the first time application were invited though online mode this year. To facilitate those who are not friendly with the online method they were asked to post their applications to the education department offices or approach e-seva centres. Dedicated staff were also appointed to assist parents who wanted to submit RTE applications. 
 
 The collector too had asked to submit a weekly report on the number of applications submitted across the district.
 
 Officials from the Inspector of Matriculation Schools said that 1,523 seats out of the available 1,539 seats was filled up under RTE last year. But the trend doesn’t seem to be so this year. 
 
 “Restricting admissions to entry levels unlike the previous years where admission was made till 5th standard is also a reason for the dip in the total number of applications,” said an official from the school education department. 
 
 Apart from issuing circular to all the schools to publicise about RTE, officials said that poster banners have been raised at several places to create awareness among people. 
 
 “It was indeed a good move to make the whole procedure online, however there is a long way to go in terms of proper implementation of the RTE act,” said S Martin, human rights activist. 
 
 “There were several complaints in the previous years that schools were refusing to accept applications. But now even when the whole process was shifted online, there are very less takers. This trend only hints the fact that awareness level is still low among people. The school education department has to run a massive campaign to publicise RTE,” he said. 
 
 
