JAIPUR: The TOI series on threats posed by septicaemia and other   (HIAs) at Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital have finally prompted authorities to take action against the menace.

 The state government has decided to keep   free of attendants and form a committee of experts to implement the decision.
 
 TOI had highlighted how ICUs had become a source of HIAs at the  . “We will make the ICUs free of attendants in the coming days. For the purpose, we will constitute a committee of experts from the departments of microbiology, medicine and surgery. They will find out how it will be done,” said Dr U S Agarwal, principal and controller, SMS Medical College.
 
 The expert committee will study the current trend of sources of infection and develop stronger treatment algorithms in ICUs. Microbiologists will provide relevant information about micro-organisms present in ICUs as they conduct culture tests of samples taken from these units. Specialists will address challenges in treating patients infected with multidrug resistant micro-organisms in ICUs. The committee will discuss all relevant issues to make ICUs safer for patients and give recommendations.
 
 At present, the entry of attendants is not completely restricted. The medical college administration allows one attendant with each patient in ICUs.
 
 The SMS Medical College administration is now planning to increase the number of nursing staff in ICUs. This will keep attendants away from them as the frequent movement of relatives of patients is considered to be one of the major factors spreading infections. The administration has taken serious note of the issue.
 
 “If there is sufficient nursing staff, patients will not require attendants to help them. For the purpose, the number of nurses in ICUs will be increased,” Dr Agarwal said.
 
 At present, there are over 168 beds in ICUs and 51 in semi ICUs of the hospital. But, the shortage of nursing staff is a concern in ICUs. The ratio of nursing staff in ICUs, currently, is one nurse per 6-7 beds at the hospital. However, it has been recommended that there should be one nurse for two patients in ICUs.
 
 “We will ensure that ICU guidelines are implemented more strictly in the hospital,” he said.
 
 Over the past few years, the hospital has set up more ICUs. But it has still not reached the recommended number of beds. As per recommendations, a hospital should reserve at least 20% of beds for ICUs out of the total number of indoor beds. But in SMS Hospital, there are only 168 ICU and 51 semi ICU beds for 3,000 indoor beds.
 
