BHUBANESWAR: The   has decided to allot land to transgenders to build homes, sparking a debate on whether it is a breach of the model code of conduct in place for the forthcoming  . Around 10,000   are expected to benefit from the move.

 "After careful consideration the state government has been pleased to decide that on fulfilling all criteria as indicated in Odisha Government  , 1983, a transgender can be eligible to get the benefits of house site in rural areas under Vasundhara Scheme," wrote Sashadhar Nayak, joint secretary of revenue and disaster management department. All collectors have been asked to ensure the allotment of homestead land in favour of transgender.
 
 The announcement has triggered a protest with the opposition parties claiming the government has been trying to woo the transgender community ahead of the rural polls.
 
 "When the code of conduct is in vogue, issuing such notification is a violation of the poll code as transgenders have voting rights. The state election commission must take stern action against the government," Congress state president Prasad Harichandan said.
 BJP Spokesperson Sajjan Sharma echoed similar sentiments. "It's a deliberate attempt to lure the transgender community and a gross violation of the model code of conduct," Sharma said.
 
 The state election commission (SEC) has, meanwhile, promised to look into the matter. "Any such notification has not yet come to our notice. We will verify the matter and take action accordingly," Rabindra Sahoo, secretary, state election commission, said.
 
 Nayak claimed the decision has been taken following the Supreme Court's order to the Centre and state governments to take up social and welfare schemes for the betterment of transgenders. Under Vasundhara Scheme, launched in 2006, each landless family in rural areas is allotted 10-decimal land. The transgender community welcomed the government's move, which they felt would help them in getting into the mainstream.
 
 "It is a path-breaking initiative by the Odisha government for ensuring the rights of transgenders. Most transgenders leave their families at an early age and migrate to other places. Being landless and not having proper identity proofs, they are deprived of basic rights and the benefits of social welfare schemes," said Pratap Sahu, president of All Odisha Eunuch and Transgender Association.
 
 BJD spokesperson Samir Das said, "I cannot comment on the issue without knowing the details of the notification." Neither the revenue minister nor the secretary is available for their comments
 
