NAGPUR: Like other major political parties,   too has started facing strong protests over tickets distribution in Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) elections. A dozen of its official nominees in East Nagpur have threatened not to contest the elections on February 21 if party continued to neglect their demand of cancelling ticket given to one Sharad Sarode.

 Sena’s senior corporator Alka Dalal told TOI that a complaint had been lodged with Matoshri, Sena headquarters at Mumbai. "Party should cancel A and B forms given to Sarode from my panel in Ward No 21. We 12 candidates from three wards in East Nagpur will not contest if it is not done by withdrawal date on February 7,” she said.
 
 Dalal added Sena leaders here cheated them by not giving ticket to Praveen Mande. "I was given responsibility of selecting candidates from three wards in East Nagpur. Accordingly, I selected candidates balancing caste equations and areas. Now wards are wide and big in size so candidates from every areas are needed. I selected a panel comprising myself, Sarode, BJP corporator Ramdas Gudadhe's wife Rupali and  . We were assured that everyone in the panel will get tickets. Party replaced Mande with Sarode just one hour before deadline of nomination forms on February 3. We wish to continue with Mande even though he will not get party symbol," she said.
 
 More Sena activists from other parts of the city are also upset with tickets distribution. On Saturday, some of them staged a demonstration in front of party office at Ganeshpeth. Sena can be a big threat to BJP in the elections if it manages to cool down the protests and contest elections in unity. It can cut BJP votes in many wards, observers feel.
 
 Sena roped in many BJP’s disaffected sitting corporators-- Anil Dhawde, Anil Wankhede, Ramdas Gudadhe (his wife is contesting) and Meena Tidke. Sena also gave tickets to many BJP leaders like former corporator Kamlesh Dharne.
 
 From Ward No 15 that is considered a BJP dominated area, Sena managed to get three former BJP leaders in its four-member panel. President of BJP West Nagpur, women’s cell Vishakha Joshi, vice-president of West Nagpur   and RSS worker Dr   are in Sena's panel. Here BJP denied ticket to Baba Maind who is already in fray as an independent.
 
 
