NOIDA: A   deployed with the the Dial 100 service of Muzaffarnagar, Sandeep Bhati, has been booked at the Dadri   station for beating up his wife over  . The family of the woman, who is from Roopwas village, Dadri, had given money and a Santro car three years ago at the time of marriage but the constable was apparently demanding a Scorpio, an SUV, from them.

 As a man who has a history of rage, Bhati (24), who is from Chithera village, Dadri, was accused a month ago of an   attack on a 36-year old woman of the same village after her pet dog urinated on a wall of his house.
 
 The family of the cop’s wife alleged that the constable beat her up inside the house on Friday afternoon and again thrashed her on the main road abutting the village in the evening, where she was spotted by two policemen.
 
 Married to Bhati in December 2013, the woman said the marriage was always painful. “He would beat me up regularly. As he had a constable’s , my father spent beyond his means to organise a grand wedding. My family gave a Santro to him along with money but he insisted on more dowry,” the woman said.
 
 “When we were outside on the main road, he again bullied me and beat me up. Two policemen who saw us saved me,” she said.
 
 Her brother told journalists that his father had given a lot of money to the constable’s family but he was now demanding a Scorpio or Rs 15 lakh in cash in lieu of the SUV. The woman has suffered multiple bruises on her limbs in Friday thrashing.
 
 Dadri police lodged a case under IPC sections 303 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.
 
 Ramsen Singh, SHO, Dadri said that the matter would now be transferred to the women’s police station in Sector 39 which was likely to begin a mediation process.
 
 Bhati has been at large since Friday evening.
 
 In Chithera village, the survivor of an acid attack by Bhati said she had moved house twice because of Bhati’s assaults. When Bhati was in the village on leave in early June he threw a bottle of acid on her just because five days earlier their dog had urinated on the wall of his house.
 
 “He and one of his elder brother have always been troublesome,” the woman told TOI. She had suffered 20% burns in the attack, according to the woman’s husband who added that the cop had earlier beat up the dog as well.
 
 
