NEW DELHI: An ongoing   inquiry into alleged corruption by British company   received a boost from a probe by Britain’s   (SFO), which led to a court settlement with the company.   is looking into charges that Rolls-Royce employed a middleman to try and sweeten defence deals, and the bureau is reviewing new material.

 Rolls-Royce has escaped criminal action in Britain by agreeing to pay an $808-million fine for wrongdoing. But SFO’s findings will be useful for CBI, senior investigators familiar with the case told ET. For example, SFO’s investigation show Rolls-Royce managers had feared a CBI probe in 2006 as well as a five-year ban, as a consequence of drawing up contracts with alleged middlemen.
 
 CBI instituted a preliminary enquiry in 2014. In November 2016, ET and BBC had reported more details on the Rolls-Royce case. (“Millions Paid by Russian Arms Cos to ‘Family Accounts’ of Man under CBI, ED Probe”, ET edition dated November 1.
 
 Without identifying the ‘consultant’ hired by Rolls-Royce for the 2006-10 period, SFO’s findings refer to concerns raised by an employee after a document was seized from the company’s Delhi office by tax authorities. The UK court order also records that an Indian tax officer was likely to have been bribed to keep the list under wraps.
 
 The employee said there was ‘no evidence of illegal payments’, but should the list reach the defence ministry, a CBI probe was a possibility, and so was a ban. SFO also found that Rolls-Royce terminated its contract with the ‘consultant’ in 2010. But the ‘consultant’ made an interesting argument.
 
 “…The intermediary mentioned the help that he had given to Rolls-Royce in resolving the tax difficulty in the Rolls-Royce India office some four years earlier (in 2006), that he had paid out a lot more than received from Rolls-Royce to resolve the matter, and that had he not done so, some Rolls-Royce employees, including one based in India, would have gone to jail, and Rolls-Royce would have been closed out of the Indian market for 25 years,” SFO’s report says.
 
 While there are several references to the consultant or intermediary in the SFO probe, no individual or entity has been named, possibly as part of the deal struck with Rolls-Royce, said officers familiar with such proceedings.
 
 Rolls-Royce has a major presence in India’s defence sector. It provides engines for key naval combatants, fighter jets and the Hawk aircraft, which is the backbone of Indian Air Force’s pilot training programme.
 
