NAGPUR: In what can be termed as a first, a play on the life of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ( ) ideologue Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya, ‘Gatha Pt Deendayal’ was staged at Deshpande Hall, in Civil Lines, on Saturday. Written by well-known theatre writer, director and actor Vinod Indurkar, the historical drama was presented by BJP member Shakti Thakur under the banner of Prayas Bahuddeshiye Samajik Sanstha.

 Besides being a devoted member of RSS, Pt Upadhyaya was the founder member of Bhartiya Jan Sangh too. He was a highly educated person who had acquired a postgraduate degree in English and had also cleared the administrative exam. But his patriotism and a strong desire to serve the motherland made him give up all his academic pursuits. The play explored all these incidents of his life and also attempted to present various facets of his personality through dramatized presentations of incidents.
 
 Playing the protagonist, NSD graduate Yogesh Parihar was at ease in the role of mild mannered, upright and erudite Pt Deendayal. The narrative moved forward with the help of other characters like Nanaji Deshmukh played by Prabhakar Ambone, Dattopant Thengadi enacted by Shakti Ratan, Sanjay Randhe as Balasaheb Deoras and a convincing Vinod Raut as Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The story as written by Indurkar began with the scene at Mughalsarai where the body of Pt Deendayal was found. It moved back to his childhood and youth when he got influenced by RSS ideology of a Hindu Rashtra and rose to become one of its prominent members.
 
 The direction and stage design by Jayant Deshmukh makes the play a compelling watch. Using more than 70 actors on stage, Deshmukh created scenes of RSS camps, train travel and Pt Deendayal leaving for foreign shores, come alive. The play was staged in the presence of union minister Nitin Gadkari and state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and a host of BJP dignitaries. Terming Pt Deendayal’s philosophy as the foundation of BJP’s ideology, Gadkari said that his socio-economic doctrine had the welfare of the man standing on the lowest rung of the social ladder and so it was termed as antyodaya. “As stated by him we are committed to the development of the poor till each of them have ‘roti’, ‘kapada’ aur ‘makaan’,” Gadkari said while addressing the audience.
 
 Fadnavis termed the play as one which will guide the common party worker and educate him on the rich philosophy of Pt Deendayal. “Deendayalji believed that society should take care of its members. Even those who are too poor to make a contribution to it. Today, both the Centre and state are working together to fulfil his dream,” the chief minister said.
 
