NASHIK: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Aurangabad circle, last year had received a letter from its headquarters to replace the dilapidated ancient   in Trimbakeshwar temple. However, the idol is yet to be replaced due to internal differences between two trusts.

 The trustees had met ASI director general Rakesh Tewari in 2015 and sought his intervention in conserving the idol that has been carved out of a single stone in the 18th century. Trimbakeshwar Devasthan Trust ordered the Parvati idol that would replace the worn out ancient idol in the main temple, carved from Rajasthan.
 
 The letter sent to ASI’s Aurnagabad circle office in 2016 said the statue should be replaced with a new one with same material and dimensions as recommended by the superintending archaeologist. It also directed ASI, Aurangabad circle to ensure that no damage is caused to the original idol or part thereof during shifting.
 
 Meanwhile, the temple trust and Tungar Trust apparently have some difference of opinion on the installation of the new idol. The Tungar Trust — that has donated the new idol to the temple — wants to install it, but the temple trust wants their priests to do the honours.
 
 A trustee from the temple trust said, “The Tungar Trust wanted to donate the idol and install it. But as per the tradition priests of the temple should be installing its and the Tungar Trust does not have the right to do so.”
 
 A trustee from the Tungar Trust agreed that they wanted to install the idol. “We have been given the right to serve the temple. Hence, we should be able to install it. The temple trust passed a resolution two months ago that the priests should install it. But since a resolution has been passed the idol should be installed soon,” said the trustee.
 
 Meanwhile, the new idol is ready and has to be transported from Rajasthan. Refusing to comment on these controversies Kailas Ghule of Trimbakeshwar Devasthan Trust said, “The ASI should take the lead. They should be lifting the old idol as they have the authority to do so. The idol has to be lifted carefully as it is in dilapidated state and the ASI knows it better on how to do it. They are official authorities and there will be no controversy.”
 
 Avoiding these controversies, trustee of Tungar Trust Ganadi Palekar said that the present idol could give away any time. “The new idol is ready and should be installed immediately. The old one is getting loose from the base each passing day and if it comes off it will not only hurt the people, but could also hurt religious sentiments,” said Palekar.
 
 
