AURANGABAD: Students from different colleges affiliated to Dr   (Bamu) will be soon visiting the poll-bound areas in the region to create awareness among voters.

 The initiative, which has been started in keeping with the directive issued from the   (SEC), will be executed by the board of extra-mural studies of the university with help from students belonging to 20 identified colleges. 
 
 “The   campaign will be done through street-plays, picture exhibitions and screening of documentaries among others. The programme will be executed ahead of the February 16 polls for the local self-governing bodies scheduled in some parts of the region,” said  , board director.
 
 The university has sanctioned funds worth Rs 4 lakh for voter awareness drive with each college entitled to receive Rs 20,000.
 
 Bamu authorities said voter awareness campaign would be held on college campuses and rural areas.
 
 “The awareness events in campuses would sensitise college-going youth. Focus will be given to the awareness in rural and interior areas,” an authority said.
 
 Besides appealing to the locals to exercise their voting rights, the special drive would also request the residents to not fall prey to any allurements and cast their votes in free and fearless atmosphere. 
 
 “The relatively low voting percentage always remains a concern before poll panel and the society as a whole. The voter awareness drive would educate locals about the improtance of voting,” the authorities said.
 
 A team of resource persons, including senior journalists and academicians, has been devising the detail schedule of voter awareness programme,which is scheduled to start in identified colleges soon.
 
 Bamu established the board of extra-mural studies in 1959 with the purpose of spreading awareness of education in the Marathwada region as an extended activity. The Board runs different centres in rural areas with a population between 1,000 and 10,000.
 
 “The extra-mural board, since its inception, has been responsible for the creation of public awareness on important themes and topics. The proposed voter awareness programme will be another key theme that we will be taking up as social responsibility,” said Pathrikar.
 
 R G Gaikwad, principal of Matsyodari College, Jalna, which is one of the 20 colleges identified for voter awareness programme, said youth voters need to proactively take part in the democratic processes, including voting. “The young voters always turn their back towards polling. The awareness programme will specifically keep this thing in mind and would encourage youth voters for their active participation,” he said. 
 
