GURUGRAM: The forest department has cracked down on two people for allegedly digging a borewell in the Aravalis near Manav Rachna International University in Faridabad.

 Acting on a tip-off given by  , a resident of Anangpur village, forest officials reached the spot around 2am on Tuesday and found some people trying to dig illegal   in areas protected under the Section 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act.
 
 “I sent a video and some pictures to the concerned officials to expose the illegal non-forest activity in the area. A team of forest officials inspected the area, registered an FIR and seized the equipment used for digging the borewell,” Vishal said.
 
 A TOI team visited the area on Wednesday and found that more than 2 acres of land in Aravalis was encroached upon after building a boundary wall in the area. Also, it has been revealed that attempts were made to dig a borewell in the protected area.
 
 “Borewells are dug in the area ahead of summer every year. The builder mafia, which has encroached upon the protected land, needs water for construction activities and there is no source of water available in the area except groundwater,” said a villager requesting anonymity. Environment activists alleged that police and the forest department didn’t take any action against encroachers despite receiving several complaints from them. 
 
 “The FIR has been lodged against the person who was operating the machine to dig a borewell in the area. But no action has been taken against the builder who illegally encroached upon the land and is carrying out construction activities. The forest department and police are passing buck on each other,”   of Save Aravalis, an NGO, told TOI.
 
 Activists also called for efforts to conserve groundwater in Aravalis as it’s the major source of water in the city during summers. “It is contempt of court. The   had in 2002 directed authorities concerned to take imminent steps to protect Aravalis at any cost. Water generally flows from the hills to the city. Digging borewells in the hills leads to accumulation of water in the deep holes dug for the borewells, thus preventing water from flowing towards the city,” said Chetan Agarwal, an environmental analyst.
 
 A senior official in the district forest office of Faridabad said, “The department sent a team as soon as it received the information. We immediately filed an FIR and also registered a complaint with police.” 
 
