AHMEDABAD: The tug-of-war over translocation of lions from Gujarat to Madhya Pradesh took a new turn after the   (WII) turned down Gujarat’s demand to conduct 33 studies, and held that only five studies are needed before shifting the lions.

 Significantly, the 12-member committee tasked by the   in 2013 to look into the issue has also approved the WII’s suggestion. The WII has already forwarded its proposal to the ministry of forest and environment.
 
 On its part, the Gujarat government had contended that all 33 studies recommended in ‘Guidelines for Reintroductions and Other Conservation Translocations,’ published by the   ( ) were required before lions could be sent to MP.
 
 Dr Yadvendradev V Jhala, an expert of WII and a member of the 12-member committee, said, “We have submitted the proposal for studies on carnivores and their interactions in Kuno, for continued monitoring of the prey base in Kuno, and of the disease profile of carnivores of Kuno and Gir prior to reintroduction of lions in Kuno.”
 
 “The proposal has been sent to ministry of environment, forest and climate change for funding support, but we haven’t received any funding from the ministry to commence these studies,” he said, adding, “We were asked to manage the studies from grants given to WII, but that is insufficient.”
 
 Sources in the Gujarat government said that in the last meeting held in Kuno, the government had expressed satisfaction about the habitat in MP, but had insisted that all 33 studies mandated by IUCN be conducted before  .
 
 A Gujarat government official, who had attended the meeting, said, “Gujarat has demanded all ecological studies completed before lion relocation. Preparing the action plan for relocation without studying results and findings of these studies would not solve the issue.”
 
  Ganpat Vasava, the forest and environment minister, reiterated, “Lion translocation can take place only when all studies and their findings are in place. Even the Supreme Court, in April 2013 had observed that IUCN recommended studies have to be carried out before translocating lions to Kuno from Gir.”
 
 “We want our lions to survive in a safe habitat and not die unnatural deaths,” Vasava said.
 
 Officials in the 12-member committee, however, said that the issue of 33 studies has been raised by Gujarat since the first meeting, but the committee, after discussing the issue with   members, has already informed Gujarat that seven studies have been completed, 11 more were being conducted and the remaining were not required.
 
