CHENNAI:   (MTC) increased the number of buses it plied and its services on Tuesday, Day 2 of the strike called by transport trade unions, even as the “indefinite“ stir fizzled out by the evening on stern orders by the Madras high court.

 According to senior MTC officials, the corporation operated 1,900 buses on Tuesday, up from 1,545 on Monday .MTC has a fleet strength of 3,400 buses.
 
 The transport department, which is coordinating pooling of buses from the districts, brought in more than 500 buses for city operations on Tuesday .
 
 “Most of the transport operators have sent spare buses to the city and they started arriving from Monday evening,“ a senior transport department official said. “We started operations with these buses from Tuesday morning.“
 
 The official, who inspected services on  , said there were few commuters waiting at bus stops on Tuesday . The drivers of the buses from outstation stopped the vehicles wherever passengers flagged them down and dropped them off wherever they needed to alight.
 
 “The vehicles did not halt only at bus stops,“ the official said. “They charged fares of `5, `10, `15 and `20, depending on the distance. The rounded-off fares also helped because there were no problems with shortage of change.“
 
 Officials directed buses from the districts to depots where MTC crews were not available. “This helped most passengers to travel to their destinations without any problem,“ another official said.
 
 Vadapalani resident Swaminathan said he was surprised to note that buses halted at all stops to pick up passengers. “It was unusual to say the least, because buses rarely halt at designated bus stops,“ he said. “I did not have any difficulty to get a bus because both private and MTC buses were available at the terminus.“
 
 Mahesh, a resident of Triplicane, said there were relatively more buses on Tuesday than the previous day.Drivers and conductors from out of town who volunteered to man MTC buses in the city did not know the routes well and that posed a problem, he said. Venkatesan, who drives a private bus between Vellore and Kancheepuram, said the halts at signals on city routes and the heavy traffic made the job tough. “Highways are easier to drive on, we cover far greater distances and can meet schedules,“ he said.“This is not possible on city roads.“
 
 Police reported incidents of vandalism in two localities of the city, Vyasarpadi and Madhavaram, where protesters hurled stones at MTC buses.
 
 “Troublemakers threw stones on two MTC buses with passengers,“ an official said. “They damaged the windshields of both buses.But there were no other incidents of the kind.“
 
