PUNE:  ,   of  , was found dead in the room of a luxury hotel in Pune on Sunday. Police suspect it to be suicide as Tapkir (35) had written a Facebook post, suggesting frustration over domestic and financial problems. 

 Police said Tapkir is suspected to have consumed poison but a postmortem report would reveal the exact cause of death.
 
 The incident came to light around 11.30am when a relative rushed to the hotel on reading Tapkir's Facebook post, police said. The death may have occurred sometime between Saturday night and Sunday morning.
 
 Riaz Daulatabad, general manager of Hotel President where the film producer was found dead, told TOI, "Tapkir had checked into the hotel around 8.30pm on Saturday. Nobody was accompanying him then. One of his relatives arrived at the hotel after reading his Facebook post and told us that something was wrong with him. We knocked on the door and rang the bell a few times but there was no response from inside. We used duplicate keys to open the room and found him lying on the floor." The hotel staff then called the police.
 
 Deccan Gymkhana police inspector Sucheta Khokale told TOI, "We have registered a case of accidental death for now. We will record the statements of Tapkir's father or other relatives. We will also ascertain whether the FB profile belonged to him and was not used by someone else to upload the post. For now, we have taken cognizance of the FB post but it will be considered only if his relatives and digital forensic evidences establish that it belonged to him and was not tampered with by someone else."
 
 Forensic experts conducted the postmortem on the body at the Sassoon hospital on Sunday afternoon. "The preliminary PM report states 'opinion reserved for histopath'."
 
 The Facebook post states in detail how Tapkir suffered financial loss in the film project and how troubles started thereafter in his domestic life with his wife lodging a police complaint against him and, along with her relatives, harassed him. It states that he has saved all conversations with his wife and her relatives in a pen drive and a compact disk. It said he was consuming poison because his wife had troubled him a lot.
 
