MADURAI: Two people who tried to poach migratory and resident birds nesting at   in Madurai have been apprehended by the  . Based on a report that appeared in the Madurai edition of TOI on Monday and the picture published along with the report, the district forest officer J R Samartha formed a team to trace the duo. Using the vehicle number in the picture, the officials traced Velan and Veeran from Sakkimangalam. They have been slapped with charges of attempting to hunt under the  .

 During winter, thousands of birds flock to the huge   of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin fed by   river. As both monsoons failed this year, the water bodies in these districts have gone dry and the bird population has been very thin. Meanwhile, birds looking for nesting areas have settled in water bodies like Perungudi, Avaniapuram and   tanks. The birding season starts by November and ends around February . This year somehow the birds have been lingering till March-end. “We have recorded 253 bird species in Madurai district. Every winter, Madurai gets to see   but their number has been very high this year“, said A L Elanchezhian of OSAI, an environmental organisation.
 
 During a recent trip to take pictures, TOI photographer found two poachers loitering around the water body . They had traps and catapult with them. When quizzed, they quickly vacated the spot. The photographer also found a purple moorhen struggling with a noose around its leg though it managed to get rid of the trap.The birds, especially migrato ry ones, once threatened in their habitat may not come back the next season. “Birds are very sensitive and their presence indicates healthy environment. They may not visit the water bodies if threatened.Apart from poaching, feral dogs around water bodies are another concern as they hunt the young ones,“ Elanchezhian said.
 
 Velan and Veeran are from the narikurava community ­ traditional hunters and gatherers. The department had earlier conducted awareness classes among the community not to poach wild animals and birds.As a result, they had generally kept away from poaching, but they seemed to have gone back to their old ways, say officials.“By taking action against them, we want to send strong message that poaching birds and animals will not be tolerated,“ said Samartha. 
 
