THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The motor vehicles department, based on the decision to strictly impose the recommendations of   on  , has decided in-principle to suspend licences of those drivers that have more than five   pending against them for   from October 1 last year.

 As per the figures with  , 1,62,623 offences have been detected in the period from October 1, 2016 to May 25. In the list, the highest number of offenders belongs to the category of speeding as 1,21,669 people have been booked for speeding alone. The traffic offences include red light jumping, overload, riding without helmet, speeding and drunken driving.
 
 Though the SC committee has recommended for the suspension of driving licence for every single traffic offence, the MVD has decided to fix five traffic violations as cut off mark, taking into consideration the acute staff shortage as well as the practical difficulty in implementing the decision.
 
 The department has already suspended 3,024 licences since October 1 last year, in which the offences were detected manually. Among the number of licences suspended, 2,617 cases pertain to drunken driving alone.
 
 According to sources, most of the traffic violations have been detected by speed detection cameras, and as only the vehicle is caught on camera, it will be difficult to ascertain the person who committed the offence. In cases of transport vehicles like buses, the owners of the vehicles are unlikely to be the drivers.
 
 Another aspect MVD officials are concerned about is the heavy revenue that the gover nment earns from slapping fine on traffic violations. Last year, the government earned Rs 99 crore by way of traffic penalty. In the last 20 days alone, from May 1 to 25, the department earned Rs 3.5 crore through penalty. The department is concerned that if it starts suspending the licence instead of slapping the fine, it might lose a substantial amount to revenue.
 
 To overcome this issue, the department has decided that in case of repeated violators, it will suspend the licence for one case, and slap fine for the remaining cases.
 
 The acute shortage of staff is a major hurdle before the department when it comes to enforcing the law, including the SC recommendations. As per the latest figures, there are 1.11 crore vehicles in the state, and 92 lakh driving licence holders.
 
 But the staff strength of the department is just 2,292, of which the enforcement officials who are responsible to hit the roads and take action against the vehicles are only 650. This would mean that on an average, only one enforcement official is available for every 17,000 vehicles registered in the state.
 
