Having performed in Jaipur on multiple occasions, stand-up comedian   has observed one thing about the locals of the Pink City. “For locals in Jaipur, food is above everything else,“ he stated. “I have been to Jaipur multiple times. When you talk to a tour guide, he would tell you about the majestic historical monuments that the city boasts of. But when you talk to a Jaipurite, he would talk about food and tell you, `Aap wahan jao, wahan badiya   milti hai. Aap uss restaurant mein jao, wahan laal maas milta hai.' Matlab Jaipur mein agar kuch hai toh woh yahan ka khana hai. Sometimes I feel that for a non-Jaipurite, there is so much pressure to eat the variety of food that is available in Jaipur,“ he laughed.

 
 
 
 This time when Amit was in the city to perform at Maharana Pratap Auditorium ­ which he calls as his first big show in Jaipur ­ the standup comedian told us that even though he went to a local shop to try pyaaz ki kachori, he end ed up having a plate full of dal baati churma.“I went to a local misthan bhandar in the city which is famous for its pyaaz ki kachori. However, the moment I saw dal baati churma on the menu card, I couldn't resist but ordering one plate for me. Dal baati churma is my favourite.I am not really fond of laal maas; it is extremely spicy ,“ Amit shared.
 
 
 
 
 In Jaipur, Amit focussed mostly on jokes about married couples and relationships. To which he reasoned, “Jokes on relationships and parenting resonate everywhere. You go to New York or perform in Jaipur, people are struggling with similar problems and thus people are able to connect instantly with such jokes.“
 
  Amit's witty jokes left Jaipurites in splits (BCCL/Shalini Maheshwari)
 
 Karishma Lunia, a hotelier who had come for the show, shared, “The show was a pleasant change from the usual events that keep happening in Jaipur. I attended the show with my husband so I could relate to a lot of jokes that Amit cracked on married couples and parenting. We laughed our hearts out.“
 
 
 
 
 Amit said that stand-up comedy is an easier art form to enter, specially for youngsters. “I feel it is easy to get into this art form. Youngsters sochte hain `main bhi hasa sakta hun'. And they get on stage to perform. But to be a professional stand-up comedian, one needs to put in a lot of hard work and create a niche for them. Right now, I have noticed that youngsters are in a hurry to create a name and sometimes don't even crack original jokes,“ opined the comedian.
 
 
 
