When   was named coach of   SC, struggling to find their feet in the   after two years out in wilderness, the feeling from those at the club was that things were bound to improve.
 
  A hugely popular and shrewd coach, Derrick instantly radiated the kind of confidence that allowed Churchill Brothers to play differently. The personnel were the same – Derrick didn’t bring in any new players – but there was something different about the team. They played with fluency that wasn’t seen before, and although Alfred Fernandes did manage a fantastic win against Bengaluru FC, Derrick has surpassed expectations with three wins from the last three games, including the last two against Kolkata giants Mohun Bagan and  , away.
  
  “What do I say? I am really surprised with the results,” said Derrick, reflecting how Churchill Brothers are scripting their own fairytale at a time when the nation’s eyes seem to be firmly on I-League leaders Aizawl FC.
  
  Contrary to what many believe, the change didn’t happen overnight. Derrick’s first game in charge ended in disappointment as Churchill shipped in five goals against Minerva Punjab FC but since then Derrick has been careful to take care of the details.
  
  Small matters like staying at a hotel prior to a home clash and breakfast after training for all players has been taken care of after Derrick’s arrival and the former India defender has used the time at team hotel to show them videos of opponents.
  
  “Right now they are playing for each other. Defensively, we are more organised with each and every player giving his best. There are issues but more importantly, the team is showing the right attitude,” said Derrick.
  
  The change in approach can be seen in players like Anthony Wolfe, who has rediscovered his goal-scoring form, and Brandon Fernandes, who has excelled despite being moved to the left of midfield. Chesterpoul Lyngdoh continues with his eye-catching display but it’s the four man defence comprising of Adil Khan, Rowilson Rodrigues, Keenan Almeida and Seriton Fernandes – all Goans – who have been the most impressive.
  
  Churchill are now placed sixth with 15 points from 13 matches but a place in next season’s I-League – if there is no merger – is far from secured. With a host of teams exempt from relegation, Mumbai FC seems to be the one to beat, although that’s tricky as the Santosh Kashyap coached side are five points behind with five matches left to be played.
  
  “Our relegation battle is still on. I feel we need two more wins to be safe but I won’t relax till it’s guaranteed that we won’t be relegated,” said Derrick.
  
  If they continue to play like they did in their last two matches, Churchill Brothers have nothing to worry.
