I’m celebrating. With gratitude. Here’s one more superb Bandra restaurant (after Sequel), which serves up healthy, tasty fare. Gluten-free. Vegan. Non-vegetarian options, too. And I’m grateful to my gorgeous healthy gourmet guests, who told me about Kitchen Garden. Beauties with brains, fitness expert and author   and Alanna, her 21-year-old daughter (fashion management student from London) are dedicated to fitness, food and fashion. It was Alanna who discovered KG and has been eating here regularly. It was a delicious sunny afternoon brimming over with their infectious positivity and healthful flavourful food.

 
 
 This brand new Bandra café is light airy and small. It has an indoor space with floor-to-ceiling windows. An al fresco area, with potted herb and a banana tree, too.
 
 
 
 Healthful fare. A few surprises, too. First, pick up your preferences from the grab-and-go fridge (protein pots, desserts, juices, etc), then stand in line and order soup, sandwich, salads, bread. Pay at the counter. The waiter will serve your order at your table. It’s best to choose from the veggies, fruits, nuts, chicken, Spanish ham and prawns and make your own salad and sandwich. Well-made salad dressings. Low-fat dressings, too (try tahini and parsley).
 Go for the Grilled Chicken and Avocado Caesar Salad with Romaine lettuce. Greek and Asian Soba options, too. Ask for the organic sourdough bread for your sandwich; their Chicken Pesto is flavourful and juicy. Predictable smoothies and detox juices. Surprise of surprises: not just weight-watching dishes but gooey Chocolate Cookies, creamy baked Philly Cheesecake and Apple Crumble, too.
 
 
 
 No booking taken. May have to wait, like we did. No all-day breakfast menu, so I missed having my favourite gluten-free Buckwheat Pancakes. Protein pot, Falafel, Panna Cotta are avoidable. High prices.
 
 
 
 Raising a toast (with the green booster) to the dedicated threesome — Antonia Achache, Jérémie Sabbagh and Pierre Labail (of Suzette) — for making healthy so tasty. Having written a weekly column on health for fifteen years (in a national newspaper) and produced, directed, presented 52 episodes of a health-based TV show, I’m particularly thrilled because both my passions of health and food have come together in Kitchen Garden. If only the prices were lower and the space bigger! Freshness, provenance of ingredients, health quotient and taste are the stars here. Any wonder it is packed?
 PS: In my rule book, it is crucial to use proper methods for the scientific cleansing of veggies. Providing stevia, too. KG does both. Kudos!
 
