Bengali beauty , leading actress, woman of substance -and now, a gifted singer to boot. After over 15 years in the entertainment industry ,   has spread her wings and come out in a new avatar, as she is set to release a Rabindrasangeet album of six songs that she has recorded with her father,  .

  
  
 
 
 
  Titled Amar Mukti Aloye Aloye, the album is being released exclusively and has been recorded in the memory of her late mother, Gopa Mukherjee, who passed away last year. Swastika has also recorded a beautiful video with her father for the title track, which harps on the theme of death and life beyond it, through the images of her mother.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 This is what Swastika had to say on what went behind the album. “Director Satrajit Sen had heard me sing at friendly get-togethers. Also, last year I had acted in a Hindi play directed by   where I had sung Amar mukti aloye aloye on stage. It wasn't pre-recorded and it turned out quite well. I had sent that audio clip to Satrajit and he loved it. This year, in Suman's play  , he had used my all-time favourite Tagore song, Na na go na, and I was so excited that I recorded it on my own and sent it to both Suman and Satrajit to get their feedback. Since then Satrajit has been asking me to think about singing seriously. We planned to bring out this album along with my father, who has also sung in films, television series and plays,“ said Swastika.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Some of Swastika's earliest memories are of her mother singing. Apart from being a fabulous vocalist, she had wanted her hus band to have an album of his own. “When I started thinking about this album, I wanted baba to be a part of it. He has an amazing voice and we seldom work together, so there was a sense of loss. Also, I wanted to make my mother's wish come true,“ Swastika said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 It was a personal journey for the actress to record this album, which has music arrangement by Indrajit Dey and will be released online after Tagore's birth anniversary . It features six songs, two by Santu, three by Swastika and a duet which has both of them. “Rabindrasangeet has been a part of our growing up. No other songs move me the way Tagore's do,“ added the actress.Speaking about the video of the title track, which will be released online on Thursday , she said, “When people listen to songs on YouTube, they want to see a video. We wanted to give it a personal touch. The essence of Ma's presence in our lives has played a major part in the video and I'm looking forward to its release,“ said Swastika.
 
 
