MANGALURU: Endosulfan victims with the help of  , an organization working for endosulfan victims in   district, will commence an indefinite hunger strike at Kokkada in Puttur taluk in the district. 

 The hunger strike has been planned as the state government has not considered the demands of endosulfan victims for permanent rehabilitation, increased compensation and monthly stipend., said Samiti president  .
 
 The government has not considered demands of endosulf an victims' kin seriously even after four members of an endosulfan affected family committed suicide in Kokkada two months ago. "The government has not reserved funds for endosulfan victims in the last budget. We have written several letters to people's representatives, officials of various departments and to the chief minister, but our demands have not been met. Hence, we have decided to hold a dharna at Kokkada on May 27. We have invited chief minister Siddaramaiah and other ministers to visit the venue and listen to our grievances. Endosulfan victims will commence an indefinite hunger strike from May 28 if they do not visit our dharna venue on May 27," Shridhara said. 
 
 Endosulfan victims, their kin, religious leaders and members of various organisations will attend the dharna, he said. 
 
  "Kin of nearly 50 endosulfan affected persons have voluntarily agreed that they are ready to take part in the indefinite hunger strike that will commence from May 28, if no government representatives visit our dharna venue on May 27. We have requested Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority to make the government directly responsible for any untoward incident if no representatives visit the venue," he said. 
 
 Recalling a similar protest held by endosulfan victims from Dakshina Kannada at   in Bengaluru, Shridhara said that the government has not responded to their demands.
 
 "Various organisations have agreed to make necessary arrangements at the protest venue. An organization has agreed to supply food for all. Meanwhile, necessary arrangements will also be made to take care of the endosulfan victims, who will be present in the protest," Shridhara said. 
 
