It was two years ago when  's 19-year-old daughter,  , had first watched  's critically acclaimed 2007 film, 'A Mighty Heart'. Featuring Angelina Jolie,   and Will Patton in lead roles, the Brad Pitt co-production was an official adaptation of Mariane Pearl's memoir of the same name, which followed the kidnapping and murder of her journalist-husband Daniel Pearl by the Al Qaeda. In the star-studded film, Jhanvi was awe struck by Irrfan Khan and Pakistani   Adnan Siddiqui's cameos.

  
  
 A year ago, when her filmmaker dad   was on the lookout for an actor to play Sridevi's husband in his upcoming home production, 'Mom', Jhanvi pointed in Adnan's direction.
 
 "Boney was considering other options but Jhanvi, who has followed Adnan's work in Pakistani cinema extensively, showed her dad 'A Mighty Heart' and made sure he agreed to do a look test. Boney was impressed and had his team get in touch with Adnan, who immediately agreed to come on-board," a source informed.
 
 Sridevi, last seen in Gauri Shinde's 'English Vinglish' in 2012, is returning to the big screen with the woman-centric thriller directed by Ravi Udyawar which also features Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Pakistani actress Sajal Ali as her 18-year-old stepdaughter. Adnan and Sajal had already got their visas to film in Delhi, where the first schedule was to kick off. But it was rescheduled in the wake of Uri attacks of September 18 and India's ban on Pakistani artistes. A two month schedule in freezing North Georgia, wrapped up in January. Jhanvi was present on the sets along with sister Khushi. Shooting resumed again in March with the last leg being wrapped up in Bangkok.
 
 "Jhanvi got to interact with Adnan and Sajal. The unit enjoyed long lunches and dinners, bonding like a big happy family," the source added.
 
 Presently, the film is being dubbed in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam with Sridevi dubbing for all of them. "The film will be promoted widely, globally and in India. The Pakistani cast's visas are in place. Sajal is expected to be in Mumbai soon. We're hoping Adnan will be present too," the source added.
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
