NEW DELHI/CALCUTTA: Unruffled by West   chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s statement expressing deep concern for not having been “consulted” on the proposed   between India and Bangladesh, the central government said stakeholders would be consulted at the right time in the spirit of “cooperative federalism.”

 Baglay said just as the Centre and state had collaborated during the land boundary agreement, there would be consultations here too. Mamata had indicated she would stop everything that dealt with the central government, particularly PM Modi, whom she is determined to oppose, especially after demonetisation.
 
 Banerjee told journalists that she was told that the signing of the   treaty would be on May 25 following the visit of Bangladesh PM   on April 7-10. Other north-eastern chief ministers had been invited to the signing, she said, but not her. Teesta flows through West Bengal.
 
 "I have very good relations with Sheikh Hasina. I also took the initiative in resolving the Chhitmahal (land boundary and exchange of enclaves) issue with the Bangladesh government. But, when it comes to protecting the interests of Bengal, I will not put my seal on any treaty without knowing what it is all about," she said.
 
 The chief minister complained about how the Centre was side-stepping the state government on matters concerning Bengal. “The Centre is interacting directly with district magistrates through video conference, keeping the state government in the dark. Is this what states deserve? You know I went to Delhi on quite a few occasions, went to Dhaka, our government gave full support to GST. But why is the Centre bypassing the state government?” the CM asked.
 
 Banerjee claimed the disconnect held true for the proposed Indo-Bangla Teesta Treaty. “I have come to know that the treaty will be signed on May 25. This is not all. CMs of five bordering states are being invited to the signing of the treaty. I can only say that I have not been consulted. I don’t have any clue of the discussions. I can’t put a seal on the treaty at the cost of the state’s interests,” the CM said.
 
 
