New Delhi: Qatar Airways’ plan to set up a 100% Qatari-owned domestic airline in India is all set to get a red carpet treatment from the Modi government, but ‘old’ Indian carriers are gearing up to oppose the proposal tooth and nail.

 Aviation minister   told TOI on Thursday that India now has among the most liberal FDI regimes in the world for the aviation sector. “Qatar and other airlines are very welcome to explore how they can establish themselves in India under that FDI regime. Under our regulations, it is possible to have a 100% foreign-owned carrier in India,” he said. India since last June, allows 100% foreign-owned domestic carrier, in which a foreign airline can have up to 49% stake and foreign investment arm/s the remaining 51%.
 
 The   (FIA), comprising  ,  ,   and  , is planning to oppose Qatar Airways’ (QA’s) Indian plan on the ground that no country allows 100% foreign-owned domestic carriers. “Indian carriers cannot own or control airlines in other countries. It will be a complete sellout of Indian interests as it hurts desi airlines and will lead to setting up of another hub for Indian traffic abroad (referring to the QA base of Doha). It is a complete reversal of ‘Make in India’,” said an   member.
 
 FIA had used the same argument to oppose Singapore Airlines and AirAsia’s JV airlines with the Tata Group in India. It says that FDI in airlines was allowed to ensure that existing Indian carriers get much-required funds and expertise and not for JV startups.
 
 The government, however, dismisses this view. “We have to distinguish between investment and operation. The investment and carrier may be 100% foreign, but the airline will be 100% Indian in terms of giving jobs, operations and expenditure. It will benefit Indian economy tremendously if we have investment in more airlines. Anyway, all required security clearances will have to be obtained before it can fly,” Sinha said.
 
 He made a strong pitch for foreign investment, saying India’s aviation market is still under-penetrated and more investment is needed to make flying more common by making it more affordable. India last year saw 10 crore single domestic trips and 5 crore single international trips (a return journey counted as two as that person took two flights).
 
 “We have a middle class of 30 crore and in the long term our aviation market will grow at 12% to 13%. India very easily has the potential of having 40-50 crore air trips annually (up from 2016’s 15 crore) and be the size of China’s aviation market, as our GDP grows. We have tremendous potential for growth. Our aviation market is set to double and triple,” Sinha, a former junior finance minister, said.
 
 
