NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old German, a martial arts student, was slashed with a blade and robbed of his mobile phone and wallet by a rickshawpuller and another man near   on Friday night. The two fled, leaving him profusely bleeding. They were arrested on Saturday.

 The victim,  , had hired the rickshaw from   station for ISBT. Rizwan, the rickshawpuller, and Raj Kishore, who was picked up near Red Fort, took a detour towards the Yamuna bank instead and stopped at a desolate stretch before attacking the teenager. Schult had arrived in India on March 12 on a tourist visa and travelled to Rajasthan and UP before arriving in Delhi. Police say that he stayed at a hotel in central Delhi and was supposed to leave for Amritsar on an interstate bus on Friday night.
 
 In his statement, Schult told cops that he had hired the rickshaw from the Chandni Chowk Metro station at 10.30pm and had asked the rickshaw puller to hurry up as he was supposed to reach ISBT by 11.15pm. He said that the rickshaw-puller offered to take a short cut and headed towards Geeta Colony.
 
 On the way, he stopped near the Red Fort to offer a lift to another youth, who he claimed was a friend and was heading to the same direction.Schult did not object since he was in a hurry, a police officer said.
 
 Schult told cops that they travelled through the Shantivan Marg and reached the Geeta Colony flyover. Soon after the rickshaw-puller took a left turn towards the Geeta Colony river bank and stopped at a dark and desolate stretch.
 
 The rickshaw-puller asked for his wallet and mobile phone. When Schult refused, one of them flipped out a shaving blade and started threatening him. Police say Schult hit back at the men, leading to a scuffle. One of them slashed his forehead with the blade. When Schult tried to defend himself from further attacks, the men slashed his neck, shoulder and face with the blade. They then picked up his mobile phone and wallet that had fallen on the ground and fled. The police recovered both on Saturday.
 
 Meanwhile, a profusely bleeding teenager managed to climb to the road above and alert a passerby. A car stopped for him and two youths travelling in it agreed to take him to hospital.
 
 A police picket nearby was alerted by local farmers who had gathered at the scene hearing Schults calling for help.Schult had to undergo a minor surgery and was discharged from the hospital on Saturday morning. Cops also informed the German embassy about the incident.
 
 External affairs minister   asked for a report from   and asked the Delhi government to ensure best treatment for him.
 
 On Saturday, the two men were trying to escape when they were chased by a team monitored by DCP (north)   and caught.
 
