MUMBAI: Discharge of   and other urban waste into the sea has resulted in unchecked growth of   which is choking creeks, found a two-year research on  ,   and   creeks by National Environment Engineering Research Institute ( ). 

 “We have observed that mudflats and mangroves have increased significantly in these areas over the last two decades,” said Rakesh Kumar, director NEERI. Thane creek is the worst affected showing new mangrove growth along a 45-km stretch, said project leader Ritesh Vijay. Manori creek saw new mangrove growth along a 12-km stretch and Malad creek along an 8-km stretch. “The growth is maximum in the water channels affecting tidal movement...if something is not done about the discharge of untreated sewage...the   will become  ,” said Vijay.
 
 D Stalin, director of NGO Vanashakti, pointed out that untreated sewage alone is not at fault. “ There is a rapid reduction in the land space available for dispersal of tide water on the landward side of the creeks. We have either constructed on or blocked the flow of water in existing open areas. Left with no place to go, the tide waters stagnate and deposit more silt in the channel. This siltation makes conditions ideal for mangrove growth. So, the main creeks and creeklets are witnessing more mangrove growth,” he explained.
 
 For the study, NEERI evaluated the changes considering satellite images of the years 1972, 1994 and 2016 using remote sensing analysis. It was observed that while there was destruction of mangroves due to construction and developmental activities, new growth of mangroves was observed in the creeks’ inner periphery. The report stated that favourable ambient conditions led to the formation of mudflats and ultimately increased the growth of mangroves. 
 
 Vijay said the satellite images indicated that 9% of the creek areas were covered by mangroves in 1972, which decreased to 7.5% in 1994 on account of construction activity. In 2016, 10% of the total creek area were covered by mangroves. “It has also been observed that the extent of mangroves increased more where the width of the creek is large (towards the sea) and less where width of the creek is small (towards the upper stretch). There is a reduction in the width of creek due to formation of mudflats and subsequent growth of mangrove. More reduction has been observed in Thane creek compared to Malad and Manori creeks,” said the report.
 
 “The Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai civic bodies will have to work together to stop the discharge of untreated sewage and other effluents into the sea. The unchecked growth of mangroves is blocking the navigational channels, which affects the livelihood of the fisherfolk,” Vijay said, adding that the sewage treatment plants at Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Versova, Malad are not up to the mark. BMC’s Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project Phase-II to upgrade the system, including treatment before discharge into the sea, is yet to take off.
 
 
