KOLKATA: Seven months after a premium condo’s security was breached and 75 cars parked inside it were vandalized close to Hazra Road in south Kolkata, the residents of a neighbouring para — located barely 400m from the spot — spent a sleepless Friday night after people from two adjoining slums clashed with one another and vandalized seven vehicles parked in the area. 

 Police said that at the heart of the problem was an ever-increasing fight to control the promoting and cab syndicates of the area — an issue that had resulted in three such clashes in the past five months.
 
 Residents of two slums in the   crossing area clashed with each other over Saraswati Puja immersion around 10.30pm on Friday. Five persons were arrested, all of whom were later granted bail.
 
 Dr Rudra Singha Roy and Dr Ishan Pradhan, residents of complexes in the area, said they were attending to patients in their homes when they heard a commotion outside. “There were two processions crossing our residence and I could hear a ruckus. I was then told that residents of two slums located on   and   had clashed. I asked my complex security guards to lock the main entrance,” said Roy.
 
 Unfortunately for Dr Pradhan, his patient’s car was parked outside. “Within minutes, some young men carrying tubelights and helmets smashed the windows of the car,” said Pradhan’s wife.
 
 The slum-dwellers, however, have provided two different versions of the incident. People from the slum located at 14 Deodar Street-Dover Road said one of their residents, Uttam Chaudhury, was returning in his taxi when he came across the immersion truck of 19 Deodar Street slum. “Uttam honked at them, which angered the youths there and around six of them beat him up. When we rushed to save him, we were beaten up with rods, bricks and tubelights. Even women were not spared,” claimed Mithu Dey, who said at least six from her area were injured in the process.
 
 Rakesh Roy, from the other slum, claimed: “The Dover Road residents blocked our way and attacked us. My younger brother was hit on his head and received several stitches.”
 
 DC (southeast)   said they had arrested five persons belonging to the opposing factions. 
 
 With the Fort Oasis rioting incident still fresh in their minds, local residents chose to keep their main entrances locked even on Saturday. 
 
 
