BENGALURU: India’s online retail market is expected to have grown by over 50% during the festive sales in 2017, as the industry, led by   and   India, is pegged to crossed $1.7 billion in sales in five days. The annual flagship sale events last year saw over $1billion of sales registered just between Flipkart,   and  , according to industry executives and analysts.
 
  While the first five days of the festive sales have shown clear leadership trends, the entire 30-day period till   is significant for the   players to boost their numbers, with the total industry gross merchandise value (GMV) during the festive period expected to touch Rs 15,000 crore ($2.3 billion).
  
  As per the trends that have emerged from the high-decibel ecommerce race, it’s Flipkart Group in the first place, Amazon India in the second, and   Mall in the third, as per industry watchers.
  
  
  
  
  Two analysts said Flipkart has come out top, mostly powered by smartphones, but may have fallen a little short of its target of $1 billion, with an estimated GMV of $900 million. Amazon may be 20-30% less than Flipkart’s, which also owns fashion portals   and Jabong, one of them said.
  
  Flipkart claims to have doubled its metrics with this Big Billion Days sale, specially in terms of gross sales and customer base. Flipkart had achieved over Rs 3,000 crore during the last year’s sales, and may have touched Rs 6,000-6,500 crore this time.
  
  But the SoftBank and Tiger Globalbacked company said it had reached an overall market share in the range of 70%, a target it had set before the sales. “We have established ourselves as very clear leaders in consumer preference,” said Flipkart CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy. “In some categories we exceeded 70% share and also took leadership in categories where we were not leaders, such as home and kitchen. Overall, we are in the 70% marketshare range.”
  
  While one analyst said the 70% market share seems probable, a third analyst said Flipkart’s claim may be too aggressive.
  
  On the other hand, Amazon India said it is the largest and fastest growing marketplace, but did not give total growth numbers. Last year, the company had said it had sold 15 million units, while Flipkart claimed to have sold 15.5 million units.
  
  The Jeff Bezos-owned company, which has products across 32 categories, claimed that more than 50% of their categories doubled their business this time vis-a-vis last Diwali sale and smartphone, which is their largest category right now, grew by more than two times. “This year, we had the highest ever sales in value, in unit terms and the trend continues with Prime being our largest selling product,” said Manish Tiwary, vicepresident for category management at Amazon India.
  
  Paytm Mall, which opened its war chest for its first festive sale with deep discounts and high cashbacks, is likely to have emerged number three, filling the gap left by Snapdeal’s receding marketshare. “Paytm Mall’s focus on large appliances and its cashbacks may have helped platform to take off. However, it is to be seen if it can sustain this,” said an analyst.
  
  The festive season saw a big jump in new shoppers, especially from smaller towns. Amazon’s Tiwary said that 85% of their new users this year have been from non-metro areas as compared to 70% during the last year’s sale. Kirshnamurthy said Flipkart doubled total customer count, of which a third were new customers.
  
  “Affordability programmes saw huge adoption during the sales. A third of our GMV touched some kind of affordability program,” Krishnamurthy said. Paytm Mall claims to have witnessed an overall onboarding of 25-30x new users during the four-day sale period with 12x growth in smartphone sales, 8x in laptops and cameras, 10x in home appliances, among others.
  
  “Our revenues have gone up by 3x while orders are up by nearly 100% over last Diwali,” Radhika Aggarwal, cofounder of ShopClues, said.
  
