Panaji: For the first time since Goa hosted the National Football Championship for the   in 1972, the hosts are not starting a   battle as favourites.
 
  Goa made it to the final of the last two Santosh Trophy that they hosted – 1990 and 1996 – and lost to Bengal via the tiebreaker in 1972 when ‘Goa ka Ghoda’ Bernard Pereira, missed his spot kick. Even this year, many believed Goa had the wherewithal to withstand any challenge. After all, Goa is the only team with nine I-League players in its ranks, but since an opening day 2-1 win over Meghalaya, the hosts have been largely unconvincing.
  
  In sharp contrast,   have been on a roll and should fancy their chances of a final appearance when the two teams meet at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Thursday.
  
  Kerala scored 10 goals in their first three matches and staged a grand recovery against Punjab after being two goals down. Nobody should get fooled by Kerala’s 0-2 defeat at the hands of Maharashtra in their concluding league clash; they rested eight players from the starting eleven and could still compete as equals.
  
  “I am not worried about our performance. Except against Bengal, we have dominated all opposition and I can see the brighter side,” said Goa coach  .
  
  The problem is Bengal was the strongest side in the group, and Kerala – on the evidence of what we’ve seen in the group stages – are even stronger.
  
  “Kerala look a much balanced side. They run a lot and are solid defensively. We will have to be at our best but I am confident that the boys, despite all the pressure, will deliver,” said Costa.
  
  Costa has been forced into plenty of changes to his side. He fielded three goalkeeper for the last three matches but   seems to be the best bet for the semifinals. The bigger worry, however, is captain Francis Fernandes who is yet to recover from an injury while defender Leny Pereira who limped out of the last match hasn’t recovered either.
  
  Kerala are among the few states who treat the Santosh Trophy with respect and coach VP Shaji knows that anything less than the title will be considered as failure.
  
  “Goa is a very good team and will have the edge with their home support but we are preparing well. Football is a game of 90 minutes and anything can happen,” said Shaji.
  
  With Jobby Justin and P Usman leading the charge, at least Kerala will not be short of firepower.
