Noida: Home minister Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj surprisingly made no mention of ‘notebandi’ or ‘kala dhan’ as he hit the campaign trail in Noida on Friday. Instead, he made a shrill pitch to defend ‘Bharat Mata’ against traitors and hailed the cross-LoC “surgical strikes” last September.

 The words conveyed the sense that   would fall back on the nationalism theme rather than hardsell demonetisation to win the battle for UP, which if true would be a remarkable turnaround from the bullish mood in the party on ‘notebandi’ in November and December.
 
 Pankaj, despite his lineage, is no heavyweight and cannot be called a spokesperson for BJP. But BJP wouldn’t send out the home minister’s son into battle without a well-rehearsed campaign line endorsed by the party.
 
 Barola was among a series of places Pankaj visited during the day. Asked if he had mentioned ‘notebandi’ in any of his other meetings, a BJP functionary who was present in at least five of those said he hadn’t. 
 
 Pankaj’s speech was laced with references to events in the more distant past rather than the ongoing battle against black money that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described demonetisation as. Mostly, it was the controversy at JNU last year that Pankaj stuck to, claiming students raised slogans of “Afzal zindabaad” (a reference to Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru) and “Bharat Mata ke tukde honge”, and calling them “traitors”.
 
 Pankaj did not let facts come in his way, basing his allegations on videos that now everyone knows were doctored. He also hit out at Congress, which is fighting the   in alliance with the Samajwadis, saying Rahul Gandhi had stood with the university’s students during the controversy. 
 
 “JNU is hardly 15km from here,” Pankaj said at Barola village in Sector 49 (actually, it’s almost double, nearly 30km). “When slogans like “Afzal zindabad”, “Bharat Mata ke tukde honge” were made, all the sons of Bharat Mata should have stood together under the flag of Bharat Mata rather than standing under different party flags. But all of them, including Rahul Gandhi and SP leaders went to stand with the traitors who used slogans like “jitney Afzal maroge, utne Afzal paida honge” (the more Afzals you kill, the more Afzals will be born)”.
 
 “Look at their guts, but this does not work under this government. We have made such strong laws that “jitney Afzal niklenge, utne Afzal maare jayenge (all those Afzals that appear will be killed). This is the difference,” Pankaj said.
 
 Moving on to the “surgical strikes”, he said while our soldier sacrifices his life and goes beyond the Line of Control (LoC) to kill terrorists, BSP and SP ask for the proof of the strikes rather than saluting them.
 
 He also took a dig at CM Akhilesh Yadav for avoiding Noida because of a purported jinx a visit to the city casts on sitting CMs who lose subsequent elections. “The CM doesn’t come here but does video-conferencing. He cannot take your blessings directly”, daring Akhilesh to come to Noida.
 
 Though he described himself as ‘ghar ka ladka’, villagers in Barola admitted they had not heard of Pankaj before. Vimla Devi (35) said she will go with the buzz when she votes. “I paid Rs 100 for a ration card but could not get it made. And look at our roads,” she said, pointing to the waterlogged streets of Barola. Shopkeeper Udham Singh said that he had never seen Pankaj but believed the Modi wave is still there and would help Pankaj win.
 
 
