PUNE: The   of   for   may soon be implemented across the country. 

 The concept is a suggestion of former Maharashtra bureaucrat T C Benjamin, from whom the Union women and child development ministry had sought “out of the box ideas” for drafting the national policy for women. 
 
 The policy is in the final stages of approval.
 
 Suggestions were sought from former bureaucrats and NGOs across the country in the last two years. The last date of filing the views is May 15, stated a mail to them signed by minister Menaka Gandhi.
 
 Benjamin said he had proposed the idea because the government emphasised on toilet facilities but “common bathrooms” were also the need of the hour because complaints of women living in slums and facing the threat of prying eyes were galore.
 
 “As the municipal commissioner of Solapur, I ensured construction of six bathrooms for women in slums. The bathrooms were hexagonal structures with six cubicles with a stone in the middle for washing clothes. This initiative was widely welcomed by the beneficiaries because it not only promoted hygiene but also saved them from a lot of embarrassment,” Benjamin said in his suggestion to the ministry. 
 
 In her petition, the minister said the focus was on new ideas for women’s safety and empowerment. An official from the ministry told TOI that the draft was in the final stage and suggestions have been sought till May 15 before the policy is released. 
 
 The officials said that among the suggestions that have poured in so far are tax incentives for companies with more than 50% women employees and bail for women undertrials on serving 33% of their respective jail terms.
 
 There’s also a proposal of “kanya” buses for women and children to be run by the women. Officials in the ministry said they had earlier taken due cognisance regarding passport rules for children of single parents and controlling the “alarming rate” of caesarean section deliveries.
 
 The draft policy will replace the National Policy for Empowerment of Women 2001 and guide the government’s action on women’s issues for the next 15-20 years. The policy was released in May last year for public suggestions and sent to the cabinet with focus on health, food security, nutrition, education, economy, governance and decision making.
 
