GURUGRAM: Highly inflammable materials, including chemicals, gas and coal, were found stored in basements of   on Sohna road during an anti-encroachment drive by the enforcement wing of   (DTCP) on Saturday. More than 18 stores in five malls on Sohna road were sealed.

 During the drive, DTCP came across serious violations of  . Along with encroachments, illegal stores in the basement of shops were found storing inflammable products like chemicals, coal, gas and chilling plants of eateries.
 
 “We found highly inflammable items stored in basements of malls, a serious safety concern,” said district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma, adding DTCP will write to district administration to take action against these malls for violating the Explosives Act.
 
 As per rule, highly inflammable items cannot be stored in crowded places. “A mall is a public place and storing such items puts life of visitors at risk,” said Sharma. For example, Ninex City Mart had leased out multiple illegal stores in its basement to a leading hotel of the city, to store large amounts of coal and chemicals, he added. He said the hotel will also be served a notice.
 
 Assistant town planner (ATP) Narendra Kumar said during the drive they removed encroachments and sealed illegal shops. They started their drive from ILD Mall, where storage spaces of eating joints in the basement were sealed for using chilling plants. At Spaze Platinum Mall and Spaze Edge Mall, three similar restaurant cold storages and a departmental store were also sealed. 
 
 Officials said a second round of the drive in remaining malls on Sohna road will be carried out next week.
 
 “Basements can’t be used for anything other than parking, but in most malls, illegal stores have started operating,” an official said.
 
 Earlier this month, DTCP had cleared malls on MG Road of encroachments. There are around 30 malls in Gurgaon, of which 24 were found to have been violating safety norms, by encroaching upon common areas and basements, according to a report published by DTCP in June 2017. 
 
 “Malls had leased out basement spaces in violation of safety norms, which has not only reduced the parking space but also compromised with the safety and security of visitors and people working in these malls,” Sharma said. He said basements, as per rule, are only meant for parking. 
 
 
