NAGPUR: The Sangh Parivar is planning a march to   on the front.

 The move was discussed during a two-day meet of the organization’s Muslim outfit   (MRM) at Haridwar last week. Senior functionary of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) from the city, Virag Pachpore, was also made one of the national conveners of MRM during the meet, said sources.
 
 MRM has been formed by   committee member  .
 
 The meet at Haridwar had issues like triple talaq, communal harmony and temple dispute on the agenda. Last month, Chief Justice JS Kehar suggested that the dispute over Ram Janmabhoomi has to be solved mutually between the two communities.
 
 With this, MRM has taken up a campaign to convince Muslims that they should cooperate with Hindus in building the temple.
 
 There are plans to hold 3,000 community meetings across the country during the year, to build a consensus among Muslims on the temple issue. Apart from it, plans are also being drawn to take around 5,000 people from the community to Ayodhya. The rally will be organised by MRM whose activists will try to convince Muslims of the temple town on their stance on the issue.
 
 “The Ayodhya march is at present in the planning stage. Activists from   and other northern states are planning a strategy. The drive is expected to be held after the month of Ramzan, which begins from May 27,” said Mohammed Afzal, one of the national conveners of MRM. The activists will explain their view to Mulsims of Ayodhya, he said.
 
 “MRM is expecting a favourable response from the community on the Ayodhya move, as its drives against cow slaughter have already succeeded in Haryana,” said  , the organization’s state chief. There are plans to gather 10 lakh signatures against triple talaq, he said.
 
 Afzal said it was also resolved during the Haridwar meeting that Muslims of India are not the descendants of Mohammed Ghori or Babar, who were mere invaders.
 
 “Indian Muslims need not endorse their acts. As invaders, Babar’s men demolished several Hindu temples, which include the Ram temple at Ayodhya,” he said.
 
 “Muslims are being convinced that such a mosque built on an usurped land is not considered to be holy. Muslims will be remembered if they become part of rebuilding the temple,” he added.
 
 As cow slaughter was a part of discussions during the meet, a section of activists also stressed that the government should step into prohibiting beef exports, said sources.
 
 Activists also demanded that Muslims should be supported by the Sangh Parivar by pushing their candidature to political positions.
 
