CHENNAI: The last and only time England won the football World Cup was in 1966 while they are yet to reach an Euro final. No wonder, the England national team is known as the perennial underachievers. But, according to their Under-17 coach Steve Cooper the trend is all set to change as all their age-group sides have shown that they can perform on the big stage.

 While their U-20 side has emerged champions in the World Cup in Korea, their U-19 side won the European Championships earlier this year. The U-17 side had also made the Euro final last May before losing to Spain in the tie-breaker and is considered among the favourites to win the World Cup which starts in India from October 6. England are placed in Group F with Iraq, Mexico and Chile.
 
 Cooper said that the recent string of successes have given the management the confidence that this generation of players is cut out for bigger things. “We are changing perceptions of how the England teams were being looked at over the years. It has come as a result of the hard work that we have put in from 2012 since the time St George's Park (English FA's national football centre) was opened. 
 
 Earlier, coaches would teach the age-group players their own individual philosophy. But at St George, we wanted all the age-group teams to0 play in a similar way so that it would help us really generate a clear identity. Now, whatever age-group you are watching, you can see traits of a current and modern England team. The main aim is to win the World Cup and, hopefully, the process has already started,” Cooper told TOI in an email interview on Friday.
 
 One of the major reasons behind the success of English age-group teams is their playing style. Under Cooper and other age-group coaches, the teams have started playing an attractive passing game which is different than what the previous England teams used to dish out. So Cooper is confident that the England colts, who have never made it beyond the quarterfinal stage of the U-17 World Cup, can go all the way this time.
 
 “Last season, the boys executed the plans exactly the way we wanted them to. Our aim will be to maintain that style and level. On other occasions, there was pressure of failure on us. This time, there is a pressure of expectation. So the U-17 World Cup is a huge opportunity ,” Cooper said.
 
 England will play all their games in Kolkata. Cooper had also taken the help of India national coach Stephen Constantine. “Constantine had helped. We are also aware about the hot and humid weather which we would face in Kolkata during October. So it will be important that we adapt and acclimatize quickly.”
 
 
