NAGPUR: Young students from across the city were enlightened about their   towards nature by  , a world-famous economist who is also an environmentalist, from London. An interactive session with Stern on ‘Forests, climate change and the future of young India’ was organized by   in association with The Kids For Tigers, A Sanctuary Tiger Programme, at Van Sabhagruha on Wednesday. 

 Chair of Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and Environment at London School of Economics, Stern showed the kids a true picture of today’s scenario. He said, “Every century the temperature of earth is rising by four degrees and we need to rectify the situation urgently.”
 
 Stern said Delhi tops the list of dirtiest cities globally while 12 out of 35 most polluted cities of the world are in India. Stern told the kids, “It is your responsibility to contribute in conserving nature. You must use energy efficiently, focus on expanding the forest cover and switch to non-conventional sources of energy. You must also preserve dense grasslands for a stable ecosystem.”
 
 He explained to them how scientific, economic and political measures can be taken to stop the ongoing terrible damage to nature and suggested them remedial steps to follow at this age. Stern said, “You should save resources in your schools, discuss environmental affairs with parents and support your forest department as they are making a difference.” 
 
 Children tied exclusive tiger friendship bands to forest guards to acknowledge their efforts. Kids also took an oath to protect nature and chanted slogans like ‘Apna farz nibhayenge, jungle ko bachayenge.’ 
 
 Founding editor of Sanctuary Asia Magazine Bittu Sahgal said, “We are targeting young minds because they have the greatest legitimacy to ask for a better tomorrow. Through them we can reach out to middle-aged parents who can determine how will the world be like in the next 20 years.”
 
 According to Sahgal, the previous generation was not very much environmentally aware and therefore children will have to correct the damage that has been done. Sahgal said that Nagpur is relatively greener and appreciated the way Vidarbha has expanded its tiger habitats which, in turn, enhance water security.
 
 About city kids, he said, “Nagpur has played a crucial role in freedom movement and I strongly believe that children here will work significantly on this issue too.” 
 
 Chartered accountant   said, “Having a one-on-one talk with the world-class environmentalist himself, I’m sure that young minds are deeply influenced to be ambassadors of change. Student Ameya Gadhikar said, “I realized how vital it is to start acting wisely and whatever profession I undertake, I wish to be associated with nature.”
 
 In-charge of the event Sulabha Chakravarty proposed a vote of thanks. Present at the function were Nicholas Stern’s wife Susan, forest officers Shree Bhagwan, Kishor Mishrikotkar, Mallikarjuna, TSK Reddy, members of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal and honorary wildlife warden Roheet Karoo.
  
 
