COIMBATORE: Local administration minister, S P Velumani, along with other MLAs held a meeting with the   managers and other officials to discuss the water situation in the city. He said the city received 67.5% less rainfall this year, compared to the previous years, leading to acute water shortage. The levels at Siruvani dam have dipped below the dead storage and will have to be pumped using machinery. “We are in talks with the Kerala government and are hopeful that permission for pumping water will come soon,” he said. 

 The city usually draws nearly 90mld of water from Siruvani. But in the past few months, only 20-30mld is being drawn. All the Siruvani area pipelines have been interlinked with the Pillur water supply scheme and these areas will get Pillur water supply. In 5 wards where the Pillur pipelines are not laid, corporation lorries will supply water. Every day, 28 lorries will take 5 trips to supply water in areas faced with water crisis.
 
 Residents have been resorting to protests almost every day in the past few weeks. Most of the protesters are from the Sivuvani-fed areas. The minister requested the residents not to protest on roads. He asked them to call 1077 in case of water shortage and the officials would attend to their grievances. He also requested the residents to use water judiciously.
 
 The city corporation will also dig bore wells in select locations. Apart from this, so far, more than 750 unauthorised water connections in all the five zones across the corporation have been disconnected. The minister said unauthorized connections in residential and commercial establishments will continue to be disconnected in the coming days. The civic body has also stopped approving new water connections, temporarily. They have assured residents that once the levels at the reservoirs improve, they would being issuing connections again. The civic body normally draws nearly 80-90mld from Siruvani on a daily basis, 125-130mld from Pillur water supply scheme, 9-10mld from Aliyar scheme and 11-12 mld from Bhavani.
 
 City corporation commissioner,   said the water supply would improve once pumping at Siruvani dam begins. “Until then, areas will receive water once in 12 days,” he said. Earlier, Siruvani areas recieved water once in 4 days.
 
 
