Delhi has been consistently ranked among the most polluted cities in the world when it comes to air quality. 

 Desperate situations demand urgent measures. In this case, the solution can be as simple as planting trees.
 
 One of the many efforts to help improve Delhi’s air quality has been the  , a joint initiative launched by   and The Times of India in 2015. Its aim: to plant and maintain saplings in urban areas, starting with Delhi. The two annual tree plantation drives carried out in the Capital in 2015 and 2016 have seen close to two lakh saplings being planted. More than 50,000 Delhiites participated in the drive .
 
 This year, the initiative is aiming to plant more than two lakh saplings in Delhi, Gurugram, Chandigarh and Indore, starting with Indore on September 17. 
 
 The places where saplings were planted in Delhi included three biodiversity parks owned by DDA. According to Prof C R Babu, director emeritus, Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, which provides the technical support, the survival rate of saplings planted in these parks has been high. 
 
 In the   biodiversity park, the survival rate is 100%, with all the saplings having reached an average 4 to 6 feet in height. “In Tilpat Valley, the saplings planted in 2015 have grown up to 12 to 15 feet on average and have developed a canopy,” he says.
 
 One of the reasons for this success is the Green Drive’s ‘ecosystem approach’, which focuses on planting native species of trees, which are most suited for the area’s climate and soil condition. Another factor is proper maintenance to ensure the health and survival of the young trees.
 
 Increasing the green cover in urban areas has other benefits. It helps mitigate flooding, waterlogging and soil erosion, which would otherwise end up as silt clogging the drainage system. It also boosts the entire natural ecosystem.
 
 Most important, it creates a community out of the city’s residents. Research has borne out that without community participation, a tree plantation drive cannot work. Moreover, the collective engagement, which allows for an entire forest to be planted through one day’s participation, encourages the community to have a stake in the initiative and also take responsibility for their environment.
 
 
