Visakhapatnam: The commission of railway safety under the Union ministry of civil aviation began the preliminary enquiry into the   derailment near Kuneru railway station on Monday.

 Ram Kripal, commissioner of the wing for southern circle of the Indian Railways, arrived here from Secunderabad to study the reasons behind the major mishap on the Andhra-Odisha border.
 
 Kripal accompanied by Chandralekha Mukherjee, Waltair divisional railway manager for ECoR, and the heads of mechanical and safety wing of the division visited the accident spot, interacted with eyewitnesses and held an in-camera meeting at the Rayagada railway station.
 
 According to sources at Rayagada station, Kripal interviewed the station manager, trackmen and duty officers about the schedule of the train and duties of the trackmen and staff at the Kuneru railway station. 
 
 “Based on the preliminary feedback from the railway staff at Rayagada and Kuneru railway station, the team came to the a conclusion that the   was not the mistake of the railway staff. However, the team is yet to undertake a few exercises to identify the actual reason behind the mishap. Kripal is slated to hold one more meeting with the officials at the DRM office in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday at 10.30 am. Following these meetings, there will be a couple of other exercises including taking feedback from eyewitnesses and inputs from other investigating agencies like the CID of Andhra Pradesh,” a railway source told TOI.
 
 The commission of railway safety deals with matters pertaining to the safety of rail travel and train operation and is charged with certain statutory functions as laid down in the Railways Act, 1989, which are of inspectorate, investigatory and advisory nature.
 
 Meanwhile, a city railway spokesperson said train services in the Rayagada-Vizianagaram section of the division was restored within 36 hours of the mishap. The track was fit for traffic by 4.25 am on Monday and train services resumed immediately in that section.
 
 
