NAGPUR: “Tukdoji Maharaj was not just a spiritual guru, but played an integral part in the fight for independence and he played a consequential role in awakening the citizens about their duties towards the motherland,” said Marathi novelist Subhash Savarkar during his speech on the occasion of birth anniversary of Rashtrasant   Maharaj at Nagpur University’s Convocation hall on Sunday.

 Savarka was delivering a lecture on “Rashtrasant’s ideology in present context” and threw light upon his significance in the country’s history. The guest of honour was Pro VC Pramod Yeole while VC Siddharthavinayaka Kane was the president for the event. Professor at the University Pramod Munghate and Controller of Examinations Niraj Khati were also present on the occasion. 
 
 Savarkar, who hails from Amravati said, “Tukdoji was bestowed with the title of Rashtrasant as his methods of bringing in social reforms were very impressive. After the dawn of independence he concentrated on rural reconstruction and initiated many programmes for integrated rural development. He was a compassionate human being and organized constructive relief works for the needy”.
 
 Savarkar discussed how Tukdoji reached out to the border during Indo-China war in 1962 to boost the morale of soldiers and rejuvenate their energy.
 
 Savarkar said that Tukdoji’s work in literature purely reflects his desire to revitalize patriotism and promote healthy community living. He said, “Socio-spiritualism was Tukdoji’s prime agenda. In his famous epic Gramgeeta, he wrote about the upliftment of rural India and guided the villagers about their responsibilities towards the nation. Thus, his anniversary is also called Graam Jayanti.”
 
 According to Savarkar, the flavour of patriotism in his preaching is what makes him different from other saints. Unlike the rest, he emphasized on making the present better rather than doing good deeds to rejoice the life hereafter. Having wide horizons his teachings are viable for generations of all times. 
 
 Highlighting the essence of 108th anniversary of Tukdoji, VC Kane said, “The figure 108 is considered sacred in Hindu mythology and we consider this year’s celebration to be blessed.”
 
 He added, “In 2005 we named our university in the name of Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj and thereby accepted and adapted all his objectives and teachings. We look up to him as a Satpurush (Supreme being) and have implemented his philosophies too. Our university song ‘Ya bhartat bandu bhav’ is an excerpt of his work.”
 
 Reverting to Savarkar’s suggestion of making ‘Tukdoji’s Thoughts’ affiliated to UGC in order to preserve his literature, Kane said, “We are remembering and abiding by his ideologies through such lectures, celebrations and helping students get acquainted with him, which serves the purpose.” 
 
 
