COIMBATORE: As the city rings in a brand New Year, Coimbatoreans are hoping for beginnings with renewed possibilities and promises. Here’s a wish list drawn by a few well-known faces in Coimbatore on what they would like to see in namma Coimbatore in 2017.

 
 
 My only wish for 2017 is that the defunct Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) in the city be revived. It’s indeed heartbreaking to see large injured animals suffering on the roads. NGOs can always find foster homes for small animals, but we are not equipped to treat animals like horses. SPCA is a powerful and authorized body to rescue injured, stranded or orphaned animals and rehabilitate them. Unlike the NGOs that cannot take any major decisions regarding animals, SPCA can enforce ownership and responsibility among people as it is a law enforcement agency. They can also impose laws and take action against violators, unlike other animal welfare organizations that can only rescue and provide immediate relief measures.
 
 
 
 It has always been my dream to visit a museum that would boast the proud legacy of the Kongu region (Western Tamil Nadu). A museum will motivate youngsters to contribute more to the city they are born and living in. And this is easier, if they are acquainted with the history of region and the development path that it has traversed. A heritage museum can bridge the gap between the past and future. A structure like the Kuthiravandi court, with a heritage touch, can be used to convert into a museum. One part of the museum can be used to conduct food festivals, fine arts performances or even screen documentaries for visitors.
 
 
 
 I want the city to be more disabled-friendly and we need to work on this aspect extensively. Just as the Swachch Bharat campaign took off in a big way across the country, I want the Accessible Campaign (Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan) to follow suit. The nation-wide campaign for achieving universal accessibility for persons with disabilities should be supported by all. And, I am not only talking in terms of amenities, but also the basic rights- like education and employment.
 
 
 
 It’s time we improved the green cover in the city and created awareness about the same. Coimbatore’s weather is not the same as it was a few years ago. We are battling climate change and the erratic weather conditions are testimony to that. This year, we will be concentrating extensively on planting indigenous saplings. Indigenous plants aid the growth of medicinal plants as well that can be used to treat common ailments like fever, cold and cough. If the public wants us to help in planting or transplantation of a sapling, we are readily available. We will also guide those from other cities. Planting trees can help bring rainfall into the region, which has been scanty in the last few years. I want to see the city to get back its green cover.
 
 
 
 My only wish list for 2017 is that Coimbatore be ranked number one among smart cities.   means smart citizens, smart schools and smart education. It’s time we focused on education and spreading awareness on the same. Public participation along with the local bodies will help us achieve this dream. I also want to be the change I want to see in others.
 
 
 
 The transgender community rings in every New Year with a lot of hope. This year, I hope transgenders are provided access to education and employment. Education will bring in a tide of change among the fraternity and instill confidence in them; while employment will change society’s perspective toward us. We do not want separate schools for transgenders and further get ostracised. We dream for a society in which a transgender is able to study and work along with the mainstream society and are considered equals.
 
 
 
 Coimbatore has always been a business-friendly city, but we do not have a one-point center that would provide an outsider, a peek into what the city is all about. The center I am talking about should be a window to the city through which a visitor from abroad can find every detail of Coimbatore. It should aid in bringing more business and investments. It would also be nice if we could come together, take up three or four sports under our wings and work toward churning out good sporting talents from the city.
 
