BHATINDA: Days after accusing SAD president   of releasing his “fake sex video”, party MP   on Monday came out in open in support of the Congress. His son Davinder is already Congress candidate from Fazilka assembly segment. On Monday, he “gave his blessings” to Congress MP   Bittu at his residence at village Ghubaya in district Fazilka. 

 Now, with two sitting MPs from warring parties, Bittu and Ghubaya, joining hands against Sangrur sitting MP   and former MP Sukhbir in Jalalabad assembly constituency, the contest has taken an even more curious turn. Bittu, despite being sitting MP from Ludhiana, is contesting assembly election from Jalalabad against Mann and Sukhbir.
 
 Ghubaya was feeling the pinch after a sleazy video clip went viral on Friday, in which he was allegedly seen getting intimate with a woman. Ghubaya had said that video was morphed and had accused Sukbir of orchestrating the whole episode. Angered over it, two daughters of Ghuabya and his elder son too had joined the Congress on the next day at Jalalabad in the presence of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi.
 
 Sources told TOI that Ghubaya had made a score of sarpanches and panchayat members of various villages falling under Jalalabad assembly constituency and belonging to Akali Dal to support Bittu. Ghubaya has, however, still not started campaigning for the Congress. 
 
 When contacted, Ghubaya told TOI, “Congress MP Ravneet Bittu had come to our residence and I welcomed him but I refrained from campaigning for him. I am not canvassing for my own party Akali Dal either. Though I have been defamed by my own party but I am still with SAD. It is Indian tradition to welcome anyone who comes to you.” 
 
 On the question of making many people lending support to the Congress, Ghubaya said, “Some people were sitting at my residence and they assured support to the Congress and there was nothing bad in it as my children are already in the Congress and my younger son is contesting on its ticket.” 
 
 Bittu said, “Ghubaya is supporting us and we are hopeful to get support in the area in the name of Ghubaya.” 
 
