NOIDA: On Sunday,   police arrested four men for the   of a man and the gang-rape of four women at   on May 25. The arrests followed a painstaking hunt over two months across three states, where cops in plainclothes sat for hours on highways. But they needn’t have tried so hard.

 While the cops were hot on their trail, the four gangsters were cooling their heels at Luksar jail in  . They were arrested along with three others by the station officer of Sector 58 police station for planning to commit dacoity in nearby areas on June 13, two weeks after the brutal Jewar gang-rape, and sent to jail without proper questioning. They were released on bail on June 28 and remained at large till they were arrested on Sunday with one more accomplice.
 
 According to sources, on June 13, station officer Dilip Singh Bisht of Sector 58 police station arrested Ashok alias Raju (30), Rakesh (25), Deepak (20), and Monu, and three others from Sector C park while planning a dacoity in nearby areas.
 
 On June 13, seven men were booked under sections 399 and 402 of IPC and also under the Arms Act. Police also seized two country-made guns, some live cartridges and two iron rods from them.
 
 Later, Bisht himself filed the FIR as complainant in the case, saying he had received information from an informer that a group of seven men were planning to commit dacoity in the neighbouring companies.
 
 The seven accused were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. TOI has a copy of the FIR registered at Sector 58 police station, which clearly states the names of all seven accused and their arrest.
 
 Police, in the meantime, formed several teams and also roped in special operations group, surveillance cell, anti-extortion cell, crime branch, STF and teams from Aligarh and Bulandshahr to trace the accused in UP, Haryana and Rajasthan.
 
 On July 23, the Noida police nabbed Ashok alias Raju, Rakesh and Deepak (all of whom were arrested by Sector 58 police on June 13 and subsequently released on bail on June 28), and their accomplice, Jai Singh (35), after a shootout. On June 13, Sector 58 police had also arrested Monu, an accused in the Jewar gang-rape case, who is currently absconding.
 
 Love Kumar, SSP, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the local police had arrested the accused and sent them to jail. “The Sector 58 police may not have questioned the accused properly. They were arrested after an encounter with police,” he said.
 
 SO Dilip Singh Bisht admitted that the seven accused were arrested earlier for plotting dacoity. However, he could not explain why they were not thoroughly questioned before being produced in court.
 
 Director general of UP police, Sulkhan Singh, meanwhile, announced a Rs 50,000 reward for the team which arrested the four gangsters.
 
 
