HYDERABAD: Your friendly   could well turn out to be an MBA, MCA, M Tech or   Official figures detailing the latest recruitment of constables show that the posts drew candidates with a much higher qualification than the basic requirement of Intermediate.

 According  , additional DG and chairman of Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board, as many as 5.63 lakh candidates had applied for constable posts during the recently-held recruitment process. With the physical and endurance tests also done, the process is now over.
 
 Among those selected are 243 MBAs, 161 M Techs, 103 MCAs, 1,462 B Techs, 100 BEds, 895 post-graduates, 2,845 degree holders, 47 B Pharm graduates, five LLB degree holders, 59 polytechnic certificate holders and 23 with M Pharm degrees. There were 1,423 selected candidates with Intermediate qualification, which is the basic requirement for a person from the general category. About 13 selected candidates had SSC qualification, which is the basic requirement for other categories. A total of 7,379 constables had been selected this time.
 
 While the exodus of highly-qualified candidates into low-qualification jobs shines a spotlight into the dearth of jobs in the market as well as lack of job security plaguing thousands of young graduates, the top police brass, including director general of police  , are quite happy with the education levels of the new recruits.
 
 “General educational standards have gone up in recent years, so it is not such a great surprise that people with high qualifications have opted to take up a constable’s job,” a senior police official said.
 
 With the nature of crime changing, investigation also calls for police constables to be equipped with knowledge of the latest technology. Top cops feel it will be easy for constables with higher educational qualifications to learn about the latest gadgets, technology and arms. During the training period, each of the constables will be given a personal computer.
 
 “The knowledge that they have will be leveraged. A constable’s job is more challenging than having to sit in a cubicle,” a senior official said.
 
 Another advantage is that  , with their ability to effectively handle situations, will improve the image of the police. 
 
 “Their education speaks for them. They will know how to conduct themselves in society and help build the image of the police,” a senior police officer said. 
 
 Seconding this, another official said, “The public also will find interacting with them better.” 
 
