Surat: A   and a mobile health application were launched for policemen in the districts of south Gujarat at an event organized in the city on Monday. The health card will help the cops monitor their health at regular intervals while the mobile health application will educate them about fitness methodology.

 The smart cop health card and the mobile health application were launched by Shamsher Singh, inspector general of police, Surat range; Dakshesh Thakar, vice-chancellor, Veer Narmada South Gujarat University; Mahendra Patel, Surat district collector; and Mahendra Chauhan, member, Medical Council of India. Policemen from different districts of south Gujarat and their family members were present at the event.
 
 “It is necessary that a policeman stays physically fit to be of use to the society. Policemen are passing through a lot of stress in the current times when they have to face and handle unpleasant incidents,” Singh said.
 
 “In such situations, if a cop is not fit he cannot serve the society in the best possible way. Hence, these two initiatives have been launched to create awareness about good health and fitness among policemen,” Singh added. 
 
 “It is a very important step taken by the police department. Policemen have to deal with so many things at a time and cannot maintain good health, but with such an initiative it will definitely create an awareness among them on maintaining good health,” Dakshesh Thakar said. The health card will have a chip in which health check-up data of a cop will be registered. The policemen can approach a panel of doctors registered in the programme for check-up or treatment at discounted rate. Family members of the policemen will also be covered under the health card project. 
 
 Nirlipt Rai, superintendent of police, Surat, provided details about the mobile application through which a policemen can get information about keeping fit and improve their health. Sunil Joshi, superintendent of police, Valsad, provided details about the health card.
 
 
