HYDERABAD: Dapper in a red checked shirt and black blazer with his favourite tie neatly knotted around his neck, 
  left home on his final journey on Tuesday, even as a distraught family wailed in despair. The hearse, carrying the 32-year-old, travelled 21 km from   on Medchal Road to reach the  , where his last rites were performed before a huge gathering of  , friends, relatives, state officials and locals. Across the world too, thousands prayed and called for peace as the young engineer took off for his heavenly abode, his treasured brooch pinned to a side all through.

 In the morning, heartwrenching scenes unfolded at the   as Srinivas' elderly parents, wife and brothers broke down while bidding their dear one goodbye. Later, his retired father K Madhusudhana Rao performed a ritual, keeping with traditional Brahmin customs.
 
 At 12.30pm, the family left for the crematorium where crowds ­ comprising relatives and friends from other parts of the city­ had started to arrive from as early as 11am. As the hearse entered the premises at around 1pm, the venue resonated with chants of 'Govinda Govinda' even as the gathering showered flowers on the body and prayed for his soul to rest in peace.
 
 With Srinivas' inconsolable mother by his side, Rao performed the last rites together with the priest. He was joined by other senior members of the family.
 
 “The last time I met Srinivas (in 2012) he was dressed in a groom's attire. It was his wedding. Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine that the next time I see him would be at his funeral, on the pyre. It is an extremely dreadful moment for us,“ said a visibly shattered Sudarshan, an uncle of 
  . He was accompanied by his wife, Lalitha.
 
 There were others too - all still grappling to come to terms with the 
  at Kansas that left Srinivas dead and his friend Alok injured. “He went to the US hoping to do a good job and lead a great life. It is so unfortunate that the young man was killed for no fault of his,“ S Narasimhan, an old friend of Sunayana's father, said. He only hoped that nobody ever faced a death like that of Srinivas. The White House has called the Kansas shooting incident, which is being touted as a hate crime, as “disturbing“. It also condemned the alleged hate crimes against the Jewish community in the country.
 
 White House press secretary 
  that “early reports coming from Kansas are equally disturbing“.
 
 “From our country's founding, we've been dedicated to protecting the freedom of our citizens' rights to worship. No one in America should feel afraid to follow the religion of their choice freely and openly. The President is dedicated to preserving the originating principle of our nation,“ Spicer said at the briefing.
 
 “And while we're at it, I don't want to get ahead of law enforcement, but I was asked the other day about the story in Kansas, the shooting in Kansas. While the story is evolving, early reports out of Kansas are equally disturbing,“ he said.
 
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has joined local law enforcement agencies in investigating the incident that has 
  and several hundreds of Indians either working or studying in the US.
 
 Spicer said President Trump continues to be deeply disappointed and concerned by the reports of vandalism at Jewish cemeteries. “The president continues to condemn these and any other form of anti-semitic and hateful acts in the strongest terms,“ he said.
 
 
