Chennai: Older consumers in India seem to have taken faster to digital payments when compared to youngsters, according to a report by PACE-FIS. As per data, older consumers make 63 more digital transactions in FY17, compared to 46 transactions in FY16. 

 Gen Y fared a little better as they made 60 transaction online compared to 50 in the year-ago. Gen-X seems to have been the slowest to catch with number of transactions increasing only 11% to 59 digital transactions from 53 earlier.
 
 People seem to prefer credit cards for necessities and aspirational buying over mobile banking, the survey showed. This is despite the fact that more than 42% of Indians do not own a credit card. When it came to utility bills, travel and online shopping more Indians preferred paying using their credit card versus mobile banking. For utility bills, 36% preferred paying by credit cards to 34% who paid via mobile, for travel it was 37% vs 34% and for online shopping it was 40% vs 37%. Only in the category of movie tickets, do Indians prefer using their cellphone over plastic. For movies and entertainment, 36% preferred to make bookings, buy tickets or food using their movile, compared to 30% using their credit card. 
 
 Another highlight of the report was that more people are taking to financial management apps; with about 56% using such apps to pay bills on time; while 51% used such apps to track their spending; while another 48% used the app to plan their budget and maximise savings.
 
 The report also said that for Indians’ attitude towards credit cards was to either avoid it all costs or to have multiple cards. “Only 18% of respondents use only the credit card used by their primary banker. The other 37% use credit cards issued by all. While the majority 42% don’t use credit cards at all,” said the report.
 
 Another banking trait was that older consumers were more likely to make time for physical branch visits than youngsters. Even though the number has shrunk from what it used to be in the past, even today as high as 53% of older customers (between 52-70 years of age) prefer banking at the branch. This compares to 37% of Gen X and 33-39% of Gen Y.
 
 The survey also said that certain discounts must be made, as the survey was conducted during December 2016 during the turmoil of India’s bank note demonetisation.”
 
 The rapid removal of large-note currency notes (Rs 500 and Rs 1,000) from the economy — provides a snapshot of a unique time when the banking industry was under intense stress. It also points to what may be a dramatic, albeit forced, shift away from cash as payment,” said the report.
 
 
