PUNE: The Union government’s prognosis that the goods and services tax ( ) will help bring down commodity prices has not rung true entirely as far as the cost of daily essentials is concerned.

 A price comparison of 29 different items (daily essentials) being sold in Pune shows that cost of nine items has increased while prices of 14 have remained the same. Of these, only six products have shown a dip in their prices.
 
 TOI compared the prices of these items as they stood on June 30, 2017 (a day prior to GST implementation) and on September 23, 2017.
 
 There is a little or no co-relation yet between the prices of commodities and  . For instance, prices of items attracting 28% GST showed no change, whereas those in the 5% bracket showed a rise in the cost. Prices of some commodities in the 18% bracket decreased, while prices of some of those in the 12% bracket remained unchanged.
 
 Even within the commodity category, including items like toothpaste, prices have shown variations.
 
 In other words, the   has not permeated all taxed commodities with equal effect. It may be pertinent to note that there are (essential) commodities like milk, salt and unbranded cereals, among others that are outside the GST ambit. Hence, these were not included in the comparison.
 
 There are many reasons for this, market participants and tax experts said. “For one, market is still selling the stock that was purchased prior to July 1, 2017. Since many of these items are sold in loose at the several mom-and-pop grocery stores, shopkeepers are not charging GST,” Vinod, a grocery shopowner in Pimpri, said.
 
 He said, “You go anywhere in the Pimpri market, people are still selling items at the pre-GST rates.” However, supermarkets and hypermarkets are levying GST.
 
 “Tax consultants were also confused overall about GST. Therefore, the prices of the items that should have come down have not. Also, 90% implementation is the domain of the state government,” Surendrakumar Mankoskar, additional commissioner, central GST, said.
 
 He said for GST to work properly, four agencies, including the government, the public, the company and the press, must come together.
 
 “Central government was responsible for policy formulation. Now, the tax collection responsibility was given to GST network and there have been some problems, which are being resolved now,” Mankoskar said.
 
 Almost all companies are yet to get back their input   – the extent of which will help them estimate the pass on to the customers, if any. The July GST collection of Rs 95,000 crore countrywide is without the input tax credit that tax payers will draw back at some stage.
 
 Mankoskar said consumer groups should have been more active and opposed “inappropriate” pricing by traders. “Unfortunately, they have been busy bothering about tax rates of gold biscuits versus edible ones,” he added.
 
 Suryakant Pathak, executive president, Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat, said prices can be monitored only if government enables a law that makes it mandatory for the producers to disclose both the producing cost and maximum retail price (MRP) of the product.
 
 “We have repeatedly petitioned the government on this, but to no avail. The fact is that the government does not decide the MRP on majority of the products,” he added.
 
 The GST was implemented across the country in place of more than a dozen central and state levies like excise duty, service tax and VAT was implemented from July 1.
 
 
