KOZHIKODE: Giving a rude jolt to the unified  , A Asagar Ali, the organizing secretary of the   (KNM) has relinquished the post. 

 Sources said that Asgar Ali offered to step down after a section of the organisation blasted him in the social media following the publication of an article in Vichinthanam, the official organ of the KNM. 
 
 Asgar Ali, a senior leader of Markazu Dawa faction, authored the article in collaboration with Abdul Rehman Salafi, an important figure in the rival T P Abdulla Koya Madani group.
 
 The two groups had announced the merger at a public meeting held on December 20. There were allegations that the two groups hurriedly decided to merge without solving basic ideological issues. One of the issues that remained unaddressed was the question on 'Sihr' ( ) on which there are divergent opinions within the Muslim community.
 
 Markazu Dawa faction held that the belief in 'Sihr' was a superstition that needs to be opposed but the rival group maintained that 'Sihr' will have an impact on human beings. 
 
 The article in Vichinthanam indirectly upheld the stand of the Abdulla Koya Madani group that 'Sihr' will have impact, even while acknowledging that there are other views on the subject. This had led an open revolt from the former Markazu faction against Asgar Ali saying that he had betrayed his group. They even alleged that Asgar Ali had become a pawn at the hands of the Madani group.
 
 However, a KNM leader said the issue will not destabilize the unity within the organisation. "Sihr is an issue that could be debated endlessly but it will not affect the unity within the movement," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Wisdom Global Islamic Mission, another splinter group of Mujahids that was outside the purview of the merger, has intensified the campaign against the 'unity without ideology' of the two   groups. It said the ideological confusion has rendered the unified Mujahids helpless to counter the challenge from other Muslim sects, mainly the Sunnis.
 
 "Sunni leader   has challenged the Mujahids for a debate on issues including Sihr. But there were no one from the KNM to take up the challenge as the organisation is a divided house. The Wisdom group has emerged as the real Mujahid movement in Kerala," said a leader of the Wisdom group.
 
