KOCHI: The city corporation has started measures to take over Kaloor-Kadavanthra ( ) road from the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA). 

 Around 15 years ago, the corporation handed over the Kaloor-Elamkulam road owned by the local body to GCDA for widening and extension. Then, the road started from Kaloor ended near Elamkulam village office. The GCDA later extended the road to   and widened the entire stretch up to Kaloor. 
 
 “The GCDA, which was floated as the development agency, should have returned the road after developing it. Even the executive committee of the GCDA held in 2004 had decided to hand over the road to the corporation. But nothing concrete happened as both the authorities failed to do follow-up action,” said M G Aristotle, councillor from Kaloor south.
 
 “In 2015, the corporation council had passed a resolution to take back the road. The GCDA then replied that they had just completed resurfacing of the road under the five-year performance guarantee scheme and they cannot hand over the road before completion of the annual maintenance contract, which is for five years,” said Aristotle. 
 
 Moreover, the GCDA informed that they had earmarked Rs 2 crore for the development of the road. If the road is handed over, the amount can’t be used for the development of the road.
 
 According to GCDA authorities, they have no problem in handing over the road. “We are carrying out beautification works. Once the work is over, we will hand over the road,” said M C Joseph, GCDA secretary. The GCDA executive committee will have to take a final decision in this regard, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, there is a demand that the road should be handed over to Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL). The KK Road is the only road that connects two Metro stations. The road should be entrusted with KMRL so that the Metro agency can develop it in to a model corridor connecting the stations. But sources with KMRL said that no such suggestion has come up before the Metro agency. Moreover, maintaining the road will drain the KMRL’s coffers, the source said.
 
