PATNA: Students pursuing studies in professional and technical training institutions of the state government, such as ITIs, engineering and nursing colleges, would have to compulsorily undertake 240 hours of training in computer literacy, English and behavioural skills under Kushal Yuva Programme (KYP) of the state government. A decision in this regard was taken at the meeting of the governing body of   Vikas Mission chaired by chief minister   here on Tuesday.

 The beneficiaries of self-help allowance (SHA) scheme under seven resolves of the state government are also required to undertake the KYP training. The SHA scheme entails monthly allowance of Rs 1,000 for youths in the age group of 20-25 years for a period of two years. 
 
 Nitish had launched three schemes – student credit card for providing education loan of up to Rs 4 lakh, KYP and SHA – under ‘Arthik Hal, Yuvaon Ko Bal’ programme of the state government on October 2 last year.
 
 Cabinet secretariat department principal secretary Brijesh Mehrotra said of the 1,79,935 applications received under SHA, 1.68 lakh have been approved till date. “Similarly, altogether 2,49,928 applications have been received under KYP and 2,48,181 approved so far. The training under KYP is being provided at over 1,000 centres in 428 blocks across the state,” Mehrotra said, adding students keen to undergo training under KYP can now produce current residence proof.
 
 Various schemes under seven resolves of the state government were reviewed at the meeting. Deliberations were also held on setting up an Education   Corporation for extending loans under student credit card scheme. The student credit card scheme envisages extending education loan up to Rs 4 lakh upon 160% guarantee of the state government to the banks.
 
 “Though the state government acts as guarantor under the student credit card scheme and repays the loan in case the student fails to do so, the student ends up becoming a defaulter of the bank. This causes hassles for the student to get loan from banks in future. Accordingly, it is being contemplated to set up an Education Finance Corporation, which would directly provide loans to students in the credit card scheme,” a senior BVM official said. 
 
 Cabinet ministers, secretaries and principal secretaries of all departments of the state government participated in the meeting. A senior industries department official said 21 proposals have been cleared and corresponding funds released as per Bihar Start- Up Policy, 2017. State government has set up a corpus of Rs 500 crore for funding start-ups under the seven resolves. 
 
 Mehrotra said 16,727 wards, 478 gram panchayats and one administrative circle in the state have been made open-defecation free (ODF).
 
 Review of seven resolves apart, the BVM general body also gave its nod to new human resources manual of BVM. For instance, approval was given for creation of posts for fund management expert, highway and bridge engineering expert, planning and budgeting expert and banking expert, among others. 
 
 A brainchild of adviser to Nitish and poll strategist Prashant Kishor, BVM has been set up under the Society Registration Act, 1860 and was given approval by the state cabinet in the third week of January last year.
 
