ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has asked the   to once again arbitrate in its water dispute with India despite New Delhi’s objections, reported the Dawn on Monday.

 The current dispute stems from Islamabad’s concerns about the construction of the 300-megawatt Kishanganga and 850-megawatt Ratle hydroelectric power plants by India on the Indus rivers system. According to  , the design of the projects violates the Indus Waters Treaty, a water distribution agreement signed between India and Pakistan in 1960 and brokered by the World Bank.
 
 The report said Pakistan in its communications with the bank, believed that only arbitration by the bank could save the Indus Waters Treaty ( ) since it has successfully resolved water disputes between India and Pakistan for more than half a century.
 
 “That’s why Pakistan wants the bank to restart arbitration, even if India disagrees with the suggestion, as much precious time has already been lost,” it said.
 
 Pakistan had asked for arbitration last year in August. The World Bank had halted the arbitration process last month, asking India and Pakistan to decide by the end of this month how they wanted the dispute to be resolved. The bank said it was doing so to protect the treaty.
 
 Ian H. Solomon, a World Bank representative, visited India last Thursday and held discussion on the dispute. Indian officials reportedly told him that Pakistan’s request for setting up a court of arbitration was not acceptable to New Delhi. Instead, they urged the bank to appoint a neutral expert.
 
 Pakistan, however, believes the dispute is both legal and technical and requires a court arbitration to deal with the legal problems.
 
 Pakistan’s former   Commissioner, Jamait Ali  , recently told the thirdpole.net that the World Bank had bowed to the Indian pressure, which in turn is stalling the process of resolution by a Court of Arbitration (CoA). “Only after having failed to resolve the issue bilaterally with India, has Pakistan approached the Bank to set up the CoA. This was our last resort,” he said.
 
 “To my mind, this dilly dallying on the part of the Bank only reinforces the latter’s intention to give impetus to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s threat of scrapping the treaty,” he said.
 
 Shah further said that it was very alarming for Islamabad and there had been suspicion that India was pushing Pakistan to revise the Indus Water Treaty (IWT). “That is why the Bank and the US are seen debating it and dictating Pakistan for an ‘amicable resolution’. Or at least India wants to get out of the restriction laid down on them in the IWT regarding western rivers, as India cannot liberally utilise these waters as per its will and demand,” he said. 
 
