MUMBAI: BEST’s recent experiment to run   along the busy Crawford Market-CST-   on which share kaali-peeli taxis ply seems to have come out with flying colours. Two weeks after BEST introduced ring route number 113, it has found more than 2,000 takers and this, in turn, has led to 500 less taxi trips on south Mumbai roads.

 The experiment has also caused ‘reverse migration’ of commuters from share taxis to buses run by the cash-strapped undertaking.
 
 “The idea is to change the mindset of commuters and encourage him or her to travel by public transport buses,’’ said BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde. He said that every bus was equivalent to eight to ten taxis on roads and it thereby reduces congestion, pollution (both air and noise) and cuts down on fuel consumption.
 
 “We conducted a survey on the ring route and found that the buses consumed 80 litres/kg of fuel daily. In comparison, 196 litres/kg of fuel is consumed by 500 taxis plying on the city roads every day. Our buses ran 67 trips daily to ferry commuters and the services were marketed by bus inspectors using microphones,” he said.
 
 “You may feel that taxis are faster but you will get stuck at the traffic signal and buses will catch up. The advantage of travelling in a bus is that you also contribute towards reducing congestion and pollution,” he pointed out.
 
 Bagde further stated that the Crawford Market-Churchgate-CST ring route will be taken as an ‘ideal route’ and replicated elsewhere. Citizens can suggest similar routes in island city and suburbs, and write to the   at  , Colaba, or send emails on probestundertaking@gmail.com.
 
 “I invite every citizen/commuter to give us suggestions about their respective areas where we can introduce similar bus services. It will also cost less for several commuters,” he said. Buying a single bus ticket is cheaper than hiring an entire taxi for the journey. Buses at Crawford Market are available at a frequency of 10 to 15 minutes.
 
 Bagde also sought feedback on the new non-AC buses introduced a couple of months ago. A citizen complained of difficulties in boarding the new bus and getting hit by the handle at the entrance. Nearly 180 new buses have arrived in the fleet till Thursday and most of them can be seen plying in south Mumbai.
 
 
