NEW DELHI: Last July, the union ministry of women and child development (WCD) launched an online hashtag to take up and track complaints of online sexual harassment. The tag, #IAmTrolledHelp had complainants flag messages by abusive trolls and harassers on social media. As part of the campaign, the ministry also encouraged women to email the ministry and the WCD minister Maneka Gandhi herself.

 The response has been tepid so far. Between July and December 2016, the ministry received 57 complaints of online harassment through various channels. Of these, it counts 29 complaints as closed.
 
  professional Rakshit Tandon feels that the number of online cases of trolling and stalking of women is much higher and that the union ministry’s support should have encouraged more women to come forward and complain. “I alone get to know of 35-40 such cases in a month,” says Tandon, who holds cybersecurity and cyber law awareness workshops in schools. Young female students, he says, often approach him on advice on how to deal with obscene anonymous text messages, cyber bullying, fake profiles, and other such issues.
 
 Those in the ministry, however, believe the numbers are an indication of the programme’s success. “We received the maximum number of complaints within the first month. The numbers have come down drastically since. The objective seems to have been fulfilled,” says  , private secretary to the minister of women and child development.
 
 The “closed” complaints, though, present a curious trend. Of the 29, only two (across platforms) are recorded as closed with the help of the police. Other scenarios where a complaint has been counted as closed are -- when a matter is sub-judice, when the offending account has been deactivated or suspended, or when there is no response from the complainant on the ministry’s reaching out. At the same time, “pending with cyber cell/social media platform” is also a category within unresolved complaints.
 
  
  
 Of the closed complaints, maximum fall under the category of “no response from complainant”. 15 of the total 29 “closed” cases were closed after the complainant did not respond to the ministry reaching out after first contact. At this point, it is important to delve into the standard operating procedure of handling complaints from #IAmTrolledHelp.
 
 “We first ask the complainant if the web portal (where harassment took place) has been approached. If the portal doesn’t respond, we ask the complainant to come back. The Grievance Cell here follows up on the complaints with the social network or with the law enforcement. We also keep the complainant informed,” explains Arora.
 
 But does the fact that the complainants went cold after being asked to contact the online portals point to a gap in their expectations and the actual redressal mechanism?   advocate   thinks it does. “It is startling that the WCD ministry sees it fit to act as a post office to redirect complaints to police, social media companies and the NCW. These platforms can be easily approached by the complainants themselves. The limited value added by the ministry here seems to be to exert pressure when there is no movement or action by the police or social networks on a complaint,” says Nundy.
 
 Having the heft of the ministry behind a complaint indeed has proven to be helpful in the past. Tandon recalls a case from September this year. A 21-year-old professional from Mumbai got in touch with him. “Someone was sending her lewd messages online. I suggested she get in touch with the WCD ministry. A DCP in Mumbai contacted her immediately after. The man was later nabbed from Punjab,” says Tandon.
 
 This is where Nundy takes exception to the project, terming it “ill conceived”. “It isn’t fit for a union ministry to be involved in the minutiae of speech complaints. They should be working on structural, high impact issues, like getting more forensic labs and witness protection programmes, getting police to act for women's freedom by changing service rules or starting a gender courses in schools.” says Nundy.
 
