BENGALURU: Indian Navy’s decision to drop the naval version of Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) defies logic,  , former chief of the Defence Research and Development Organisation ( ) and member, NITI Aayog said on Sunday.

 Speaking at the Aero India International Seminar, he said, decisions like dropping LCA and statements like LCA navy is not serving Navy’s requirements were without proper understanding. Calling the decision makers poorly informed, he said without faith country’s self-reliance won’t be possible.
 
 In December, Admiral Sunil Lanba, Chief of Naval Staff had stated that LCA Navy doesn’t have the capabilities Navy required. He said while Navy would continue to support manufacturing agencies in the ment of naval fighter aircraft, they would lookout for 57 multi-role fighters for its aircraft carriers from the global market. Swedish Saab’s Gripen and US F-18 aircraft are already in the race for Navy’s new requirement.
 
 “When they projected Gripen as an alternative for LCA Navy, I was surprised. LCA MK2 (which is under development) and Gripen, as platforms have no difference. The GE F414 is powering both aircraft, so where is the question of low thrust?” Saraswat said. 
 
 Stating that many decisions by poorly informed decision makers defy logic, he said they indulge in bad-mouthing of indigenous projects without any technical background.
 
 “All that people, who are at the helm of the affairs, have done is bad mouth institutions which have done a wonderful job. Is this the approach to make ourselves self-reliant? Any number of Aero India(s) can take place, but unless you have conviction and faith in your own capabilities, you can’t achieve self-reliance,” he said.
 
 However, he said that the way domestic manufacturers work needs to change. Arguing that both competitiveness and synergy between various agencies and private industries are essential, he said: “...We can’t produce fifth or sixth generation aircraft with second generation manufacturing practices. It is essential we upgrade ourselves. The tendencies to keep private industries as untouchables will not work, and there has to be harmony between academia and industries,” he said.
 
