KOLKATA: Mayor Sovan Chatterjee, a chainsmoker himself, has taken an interest in creating tobacco-free zones in the city. In association with the Bengal branch of   (IDA),   (KMC) has started working on the issue in an attempt to curb tobacco consumption in Kolkata. And KMC has begun the charity at home. 

 Anyone, including employees, found smoking or using tobacco products on the premises of KMC headquarters will have to pay spot fine. The security guards have been asked to keep a watch on violators. First-time offenders will be let off with a warning, but caught the second time, the offender will be penalized Rs 200.
 
 “We have been thinking about this for a long time. Now we are going to implement it with all seriousness. We appeal to all stakeholders to lend a helping hand to make this attempt a success,” Chatterjee said.
 
 The initiative coincides with the World   Day, observed on February 4. “Every year, nearly 2.5 lakh oral cancer cases are detected in Bengal. 50% of the cases are due to tobacco consumption,” said Dr Raju Biswas, honorary general secretary, IDA, West Bengal.
 
 IDA has been lobbying with the administration to enforce anti-tobacco laws in the city more stringently. With its slogan “curb tobacco consumption, prevent cancer”, the organization, with KMC, will be going to all 144 wards under the civic body with awareness campaigns.
 
 Under COTPA, selling tobacco products within a 100m-radius of an establishment, including education institutes and hospitals, is prohibited. And selling tobacco product to a minor is a punishable offence. But these norms are violated openly in the state.
 
 “Shop owners have been arrested for selling cigarettes to minors in states like Haryana and Maharashtra. In fact, Haryana has made it mandatory to list Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) violation cases in the daily crime report. We appeal to our state to enforce anti-tobacco laws more stringently,” said Dr Sourav Datta, state patron of the ‘Voice of Tobacco Victims’ campaign and consultant head and neck surgeon at Narayana Superspecialty Hospital. 
 
 The joint initiative by KMC and IDA will also have NGOs chipping in. Talks are on to identify areas that will be declared tobacco-free zones. Anti-tobacco awareness drives are also being planned in public places and talks are being held with law enforcers on implementing anti-tobacco laws stringently.
 
 
