MANALI: Rohtang Pass, the main tourist destination in  , has been thrown open for tourists with immediate effect after a gap of six months. Tourist places of the state are expected to witness a sharp increase of tourist arrivals in the few days as everyone had been awaiting the news.

 “We have decided to open Rohtang Pass for tourists with immediate effect after recommendation of Border Roads Organization (BRO) commanding officer. Permit to visit Rohtang is now available online,” Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus said. He added that the daily limit of tourists vehicles that can go to Rohtang is 800 petrol vehicles and 400 diesel vehicles as directed by   ( ). “Permit fee of Rs 500 and congestion charges of Rs 50 per vehicle are required to pay online to be eligible to book the permit.” Heavy vehicles, however, will have to pay congestion charge of Rs 100.
 
 No tourist vehicle would be allowed to ply on Manali-Rohtang highway on Tuesday as the day has been reserved by BRO for maintenance of the road. For the convenience of tourists, 600 permits can be booked at 12pm and online window to remaining 600 permits will open by 5pm every day. Vehicles going beyond Rohtang pass will pay only congestion charges. Those vehicles that will book permit to go beyond Rohtang but will come from Rohtang will be blacklisted from booking permit.
 
 The decision has brought cheers to hoteliers, travel agents and taxi operators.   president Gajender Thakur said, “Current hotel occupancy is above 80% and this will go up to 100% in the next few days. Tourists are spending hefty amount on their summer holiday trips only to see snow.” Rohtang, being the only place in Shimla covered with snow for almost 10 months a year, is a favourite among tourists visiting Shimla, Dharamshala and Dalhousie. The pass currently has 5 to 15ft of snow which is expected to last till June end.
 
 Yunus said adequate safety arrangements have been made for smooth running of tourist vehicles. “Tourists who are new to the area should take extra precaution while driving on the steep road to Rohtang with dozens of hair pin bends. Mobile toilets have been stationed at various locations. Concerned authorities may stop tourist movement to Rohtang during bad weather condition as a preventive and precautionary measure,” he added.
 
