CHENNAI: Before the summer vacation ends, around 5,000 families will be evicted from the city’s river banks and moved to a locality up to 35km away from their livelihood, schools and the place they called home for most part of their lives. 

 In the biggest resettlement efforts post the 2015 flood, corporation officials will shift families from the banks of the Cooum and   rivers to housing complexes built by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) at Perumbakkam in Kancheepuram district, and Gudapakkam in Tiruvallur by May-end
 
 The eviction is part of two projects: post 2015 flood relief efforts, under which 10,000 families from the banks of the Adyar are being relocated, and Integrated Cooum River Eco-Restoration plan, for which 14,527 families have been identified for resettlement. 
 
 “We were waiting for the academic year to end to move the rest,” said a senior corporation official. In the first phase, officials will focus more on settlements along the Cooum in Arumbakkam, Aminjikarai, Choolaimedu and Mogappair. “We have given them an option of either moving to Gudapakkam, which has limited number of tenements, or Perumbakkam,” said the official.
 
 What lies hidden beneath the panoply of numbers linked to eviction and resettlement of slum dwellers is the narratives of 4,000 families from Adyar and Saidapet who have been living in Perumbakkam for the last one year after the flood. A study by Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities among 1,000 dwellers in the TNSCB complex immediately after relocation found that the dropout rate among higher secondary students stood at 21%, followed by a 24% dropout from the ICDS, and 13% from high schools. 
 
 TOI found out why: Two of the four ICDS had no power or water supply. As construction of two schools are still underway, around 500 children continue to study in five crammed tenements that have been functioning as a school since December 2014. There are no libraries, laboratories or playground. There are also safety issues involved, including absence of emergency exits in the eight-storey building. 
 
 “The nearest higher secondary school is in Semmenchery, which is already packed,” said a teacher, who did not wish to be named. Officials, however, have assured the schools would be ready by the next academic year.
 
 
  
 
 Livelihood is another hurdle, newly settled families are struggling to overcome. Fifty-year-old Chandra A, a widow, is among those who have been struggling to rebuild their lives. As a domestic help in Kottupuram, she used to earn Rs 2,000 a month before the 2015 deluge swallowed her house. Now, she tries to muster a living by selling candies and other knick-knacks on a pushcart in Perumbakkam. “I returned to my old locality only to find even the little that had survived the flood has been razed by officials to discourage us from coming back,” said Chandra, who lives alone. 
 
 While the community development wing of TNSCB organises job melas for the dwellers, they are largely for young skilled hands. “Companies in this area come to recruit youngsters, mostly as sales representatives, but no one wants a middle-aged plumber or an electrician to do odd jobs,” said S Nallathambi, president of the residents’ welfare association in A block. He said some of the youngsters who got through are yet to get their appointment letters even a year later. 
 
 Several women who took up vocational training in tailoring and as beauticians, offered by the community development wing, have found their skills of little use. 
 
 Vanessa Peter, policy-researcher at IRCDUC, said the biggest problem in the planning of these evictions and resettlement is the lack social impact assessments. “They first need to do a market analysis before they train people. Why do we need so many carpenters or tailors in one place? What we need is a clear-cut resettlement action plan. Just providing them a building with civic amenities won’t suffice,” she said. 
 
 With fewer job opportunities, most of them travel up to 50km back and forth to eke a living. A survey by Vanessa’s team found that 60% of the dwellers return late in the night, while around 10% visit their families only on weekends.
 
 Activists say the eviction itself is a violation of human rights. R Geetha, advisor, Unorganised Workers Federation, said the Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1971, had declared around 1,200 slums on the banks of rivers as legal. “But, while the big bungalows and houses that jut into these water bodies get away just because they have pattas, these dwellers have no documents to prove they aren’t encroachers,” she said. Dwelling units that were as far as fifty feet away from the water bodies were being pulled down, she added. 
 
 “Ironically, some, like the fire-proof ones in Surya Nagar along the Adyar river were built by the civic body,” she added. Experts say eviction and relocation shouldn’t be the only solution. “The state must devise a model to redevelop slim areas with the involvement of slum dwellers,” said M G Devasahayam, former bureaucrat and member of the monitoring committee of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA).
 
 
