Director duos are quite a rarity in Kannada cinema, something that this week’s release,  , attempts to bridge, with its debutant directors   and Jagadish. Pals for over a decade, a common interest in theatre and the arts drove them to make a film about a subject that they believe will strike a chord with audiences. What helped, says Shiva, is that his childhood pals produced the film, which gave them a free rein to decide how it should shape up.
“My dad was a theatre artiste, so I grew up watching plays and taking an avid interest in arts, which I continued through my college years. I have even worked on several TV serials as an actor, and films were not on my radar, especially as a maker, until I had an idea, which I thought would look good on the big screen. I discussed it with Jagadish and he took an immediate liking to it. Jagadish is quite the creative guy and has an aptitude towards wholesome stories, while I am more a technical guy. So, we figured that we could work on it together to get the best out of the subject. But what really helped is that we are on similar wavelengths,” says Shiva, explaining their working equation.
 The story of the film, adds the director, evolved from a simple thought. “The concept revolves around living each moment to the fullest, which, in most cases, we tend to forget, as we chase our dreams and aspire for material pleasures. That is the message that we are bringing out in our tale, without getting preachy,” Shiva explains and adds, “The film, therefore, has no heroes, villains or other quintessential elements that you’d expect, and, instead, is as close to reality as possible. It is also an anthology of stories that are interlinked, each of which also looks at the relationship dynamics among people spanning several generations. And while there are a bunch of senior actors in the film, it is as youthful as can be.”
 April Na Himabindu’s strongest pillar, says the filmmaker, is veteran actor Dattanna. “He is known to be quite a perfectionist and it is with trepidation that we approached him for a role in the film. After reading the screenplay, he congratulated our effort and has been at the forefront of making this film come together,” says Shiva. 
 The director duo is also grateful to music director Bharat BJ,   Bhat and  , who agreed to be a part of a project by two newbies. “Unlike most movies that begin with the audio recording, we added songs after we shot the film. All three songs that we have are situational montage numbers, one of which — the title track — has been written by Yogaraj. We weren’t sure that he would agree to write and had been warned that he takes months to finish a song. But after our narration, he wrote the track, which has been sung by Raghu, in two hours. We had decided to go with only two songs and had finished the re-recording, when Bharat suggested a poem by HS   that would fit perfectly for a sequence. The song,  , has been sung by Sangeeta Katti and Bharat,” Shiva signs off.
 
