NEW DELHI: As Air India’s A320 went for cleaning before a scheduled flight at the  , it was not greeted by the usual manual cleaners, but instead, a   was being operated and brought in to  . Called the Nordic Dino II, the machine carried out the first automated aircraft exterior cleaning for a plane at the   airport, completing it in just one fourth of the usual time spent on cleaning such an aircraft.

 After successful trial runs, officials say the machine has now been implemented on the ground for   and will help in saving time and increase the frequency of flights.
 
 The machine was brought in at the IGI airport by Air India SATS, the ground handling company which carried out a series of trial runs before finally implementing the technology which is already being used worldwide in several airports. This is the first time such a technology has been implemented in India however. TOI had earlier reported that the technology had got clearance from officials and would likely be implemented by the end of April.
 
 The Nordic Dino-II, is a computerized and self-contained system brought in from Sweden which will bring automation to the aircraft exterior cleaning process. Earlier, cleaning an aircraft like the A320 would take close to 8 hours, while cleaning a narrow body aircraft would take 5-6 hours of time and up to 18 cleaners. The new technology will significantly reduce the manpower and take just 2 hours in cleaning a narrow body aircraft, officials said. 
 
 “We are proud to bring the nation’s first automated aircraft cleaning machine to the IGI airport. The introduction of Nordic Dino II and the recent investment in GSE holds testimony to our commitment to use technology to improve ground handling services to customer airlines at the IGI Airport and to contribute to a greener airport by using eco-friendly equipment,” said Mike Chew, CEO, AI SATS.
 
 Airport officials say other than Air India, airlines such Vistara, SpiceJet and Indigo may also benefit from the technology as they use the IGI airport as its hub. 
 
