KOLKATA: Rarely does the President break protocol and climb down from the dais to honour somebody. 

 But it happened at Nabagram in   on Saturday after President   spotted sepoy (retd)   Pal approach the dais on crutches. Instead of forcing the injured soldier to climb the six steps, the 81-year-old President climbed down to felicitate Pal, who was among the two battle casualties from the region to be selected for the honour.
 
 Mukherjee was at the newly set up Nabagram Military Station for an ex-serviceman’s rally that included interactions with Veer Naris (widows of soldiers killed in action) and the likes of Pal who returned home with disabilities. Among the Veer Naris felicitated by the President were widows of late sapper Laxman Chandra Mondal, late sepoy Jona Tudu, late naib subedar Sanwar Hussain, late guardsman Miya Moudalla, late signalman Tirtha Nath Ghosh and late naik Mrityunjay Das, who were martyred between 1965 and 2001. 
 
 “I am very happy at getting this last opportunity as President to meet the jawans, Veer Naris and ex-servicemen of the region. The discipline and organisational capacities of the ex-servicemen, despite their leaving active service, is worth noting. I hope that Nabagram will not only be a model military station but bring about all-round development of the region in terms of creation of jobs and infrastructure. I know that the losses of the Veer Naris can’t replaced but the government will continue to look after them. I also appreciate the role played by the general officer commanding-in-chief (GOC-in-C),  , for developing this military station within a short period of time,” the President said in his address. 
 
 The foundation stone for the military station was laid by the President in 2014 and inaugurated by him in October 2016. The first ex-servicemen’s rally at Nabagram was organised on Saturday by the Brahmastra Corps of Eastern Command. 
 
 Nearly 2,000 veterans and Veer Naris from Murshidabad and neighbouring districts were present, apart from Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, Lt Gen G S Sangha, GOC, Bengal Area and Lt Gen S S Hasabnis, commander, Brahmastra Corps. 
 
 Lt Gen Bakshi noted that the military station constitutes an important element in upgrading the operational preparedness of the Eastern Command and thanked efforts by civil authorities. 
 
 A large number of ex-servicemen benefited from the various stalls that were set up by welfare agencies and organisations of the Army and civil administration. The   commander promised more such rallies at regular intervals to cater to the needs of veterans and Veer Naris.
 
 
