It was in 2008 that a group of eight young collegians decided to engage in some socially beneficial work and ended up forming an NGO, Rising Infinitely for Social Empowerment, which takes care of children in two orphanages in the city and of elderly in one old age home. 

 Pushing the agenda from taking care to making a difference to not just people but also the environment, the organization, since January this year, has taken up a project of personal hygiene among women and young girls. They are now setting up vending machines for sanitary napkins in schools where children from underprivileged sections study and are planning to set up incinerators in even high-end schools.
 
 “During our various projects undertaken in slum areas we realized that even in this day there were many women who were not using any product during their menstrual cycle. I personally found one who would just be sitting in a room in one place for the entire duration,” says Gargi   founder president of RISE. 
 
 They also discovered that there were many misgivings about using any product. “Superstitions, cost factor and issues of disposal all contributed to girls and women avoiding the use of a sanitary napkin,” she says.
 
 Finding it difficult to install vending machines and incinerators in slum areas as it requires space to set up, the NGO decided to put them in schools where students from poorer areas study. 
 
 “The machines need to be monitored and we also need someone to collect the nominal amount that is charged for the napkin. Another person who would clean the incinerators is also required. This can’t be done in slums,” says Gargi.
 
 “We installed a vending machine in New English High School and have also put up an incinerator there and are very encouraged by the usage of these,” she adds.
 
 But hygiene issues are not limited to using a product. “We realized that there was not much awareness about disposal of the napkin too and many girls would just leave them in the toilets especially in schools or regularly flush pads which led to choked sewage lines,” Vairagare says. 
 
 Now the organization has focused on putting up incinerators in schools where children from affluent homes study. “We have held counselling sessions for girls in schools like   and   about the methods of disposing sanitary napkins and now the schools themselves have put up incinerators in girls toilets,” says Gargi.
 
 Not limiting themselves to just the use of sanitary napkins, RISE is also sourcing environment friendly products to reduce pollution caused while disposing them. “We have identified two such women’s group one in Durg and other in Ahmedabad who are making napkins using only cotton which gives less fumes when burnt. The regular products available in the market are made using materials which are not bio-degradable,” says Gargi. 
 
 “The idea is to remove the stigma and taboo around this subject of menstrual cycle and make girls feel more confident and informed,” she adds.
 
 
