NEW DELHI: A six-month-old girl was orphaned after her entire family - parents and elder brother - died in an accident on Sunday evening. The incident took place at 6pm when   slowed his bicycle at a traffic signal. As soon as he stopped, a silver Santro car rammed the bicycle, flinging the family onto the other side of the median.

 The incident took place in outer   when the family was going to buy medicines for the baby as she was suffering from viral fever. Police say all three sustained fatal head injuries. The car's driver was later arrested, but released on bail. The car's numberplate fell at the spot, which helped cops trace the driver. The eyewitnesses collected parts of the car which had broken off, including its numberplate, from the accident spot and handed them over to police. CCTV footage from the area was also scanned and the car's driver, Shiv Kumar, was arrested from his house. His car was seized by the cops.
 
 Sajeevan's wife Sundara was riding pillion on the bicycle and her son, Mukesh, on the rod in front of his father's seat. “I was riding my bicycle behind them when I suddenly saw them flung to the other side of the road, their heads hitting the road. The car's driver could not be caught as he was driving at a very high speed. Even though a few passers-by chased him, he fled,“ said Sharda Prashad, Sundara's elder brother who lives in the house adjacent to the family .
 
 “We rushed all three to a hospital nearby, but the boy died on the way. His parents were referred to Lok Nayak Hospital, but they succumbed to their injuries a day later. Sajeevan died at 5am and Sundara died at 3pm,“ said Prashad.
 
 “Their daughter Ridhi is too young to understand what is happening at our house these days. She was so used to staying next to her parents and brother at all times that ever since the incident took place, she has not stopped crying. It's even difficult to feed her as she's used to her mother feeding her. I wonder what the future holds for her,“ the grieving man told TOI.
 
 The family lived at a rented flat in Narela's Pocket A and were natives of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. Family members said that their bodies have been sent to their village. Prashad said that he will take custody of Ridhi.
 
 “A case of causing death due to negligence and rash and negligent driving was registered at Narela police station,“ said Rishi Pal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). The driver, who has confessed, was arrested but later released on bail, the officer said.
 
