Actress  , who is famous for her portrayal of Dr Nanditha in the Malayalam serial Athmasakhi, is also known for her big screen roles in Crocodile Love Story and Neelakasham Pachakadal Chuvanna Bhoomi. The model-turned-actress is enjoying her acting stint by juggling small and big screen roles. A tête–à–tête with Avanthika:
 
 
 
 I was born and brought up in Dubai. My parents and I later settled down in Kozhikode. Winning a beauty pageant was my entry ticket to tinsel town. Though I was passionate about dance and had won many prizes, I never dreamt of films. They happened by accident. My debut Malayalam film, Yakshi – Faithfully Yours gave me the first lessons in acting. Later I was blessed to be part of a bunch of films in Tamil and Kannada as well. At the same time, I also received many offers to act in TV soaps. When I got a call from the team of the serial Athmasakhi, I was hooked. I liked the story and wanted to work with a big production team. I could relate to the protagonist, Dr Nanditha aka Nandu as we both are outspoken and independent (laughs).
 
 
 
 The serial has covered around 200 episodes. Nanditha is going through mental trauma as she has now given birth to the baby of her lover, Sathyajith, played by Rayjan Rajan. She is bold and determined to take care of the baby by herself. She was pampered by her parents like a princess at home and was a doctor by profession. But owing to circumstances, she is earning her living as a housemaid. But she doesn’t give up and takes on life with courage. She goes through such a lot of emotions that it is a huge challenge for an actor to bring out the different expressions on screen. Also through the serial, I got to learn from experienced actors like Beena Antony.
 
 
 
 People now recognise me as Dr Nandu when I visit malls or shops. I am glad my character has struck a chord with them as they call me by my screen name and empathise with Nandu. I see that as a great award and recognition.
 
 
 
 A lot of people including my friends cautioned me against taking up serials saying that being a ‘serial actor’ will bring my film career to an end. However, I don’t think it’s true and I wanted to break that myth. I have managed to strike a fine balance between the small and big screen. An artiste must be evaluated through his or her acting skills and not based on the industry they work in.
 
 
 
 I am greedy as an actor. I am ready to do any type of role. I have a few Tamil and Kannada films in my kitty. Being an ardent fan of Bollywood choreographer Saroj Khan, I am thrilled to be part of a Kannada movie which is being choreographed by her. Meanwhile, talks are going on for a few Malayalam projects too. I wish to do strong women roles. Currently I am in a happy space doing the serial. 
 
