CHENNAI: “Isn't it a risk playing two wrist spinners - chinaman   and legspinner   - in a limited-overs game?“   was asked on the eve of the first ODI against Australia. “They are in a zone where they don't mind getting hit and as long as they pick up 3-4 wickets, they give the captain lot of confidence,“ Kohli had said.

 The skipper backed his young guns on Sunday too, picking both in the XI, ahead of an experienced Ravindra Jadeja, who had replaced an injured Axar Patel in the squad. Chahal (5-0-30 3) and Kuldeep (4-0-33-2) did exactly what their captain wanted on Sunday night, taking five crucial wickets for 63 runs in nine overs at an economy of seven.
 
 Although the Aussies had practiced against chinaman bowler KK Jiyas and legspinner M Ashwin at the nets, they failed against Chahal and Kuldeep in game situation. Out of the 54 balls they bowled, 28 were dots, which is unacceptable from an Aussie point of view.
 
 Explaining his bowling partnership with Kuldeep, Chahal said it was always about going for wickets at the start. “If Kuldeep bowls first, he tells me where the ball is turning from. When I bowl first, I tell him the same. And we discuss how a batsman can be dismissed. As we both are wrist spinners, we go for wickets at the start. You win matches by picking wickets and not by playing safe,“ added the 27-year-old.
 
 Glenn Maxwell was the lone man troubling the two spinners as he whacked Kuldeep for three sixes and hit Chahal for another in the next over. But Kohli's confidence in his young spinners and MS Dhoni's tactical acumen helped the duo turn things around.
 
 “I've bowled a lot to Maxwell in IPL so I was confident. The good thing about us is that Kuldeep's ball comes into the batsmen while mine goes out. Virat and MS told me to bowl the one that turns and keep checking Maxwell's feet. My idea was to bowl a little wide to him, from there if he hits a good shot, then it is fine. My idea was to bowl outside offstump and keep mixing it up,“ Chahal said.
 
 And Maxwell mishit while fetching a wide one from Chahal. The Haryana legspinner said the presence of an aggressive captain gives "more freedom" to wrist spinners. “A wrist spinner gets a lot of turn even on flat wickets. When your captain is so attacking you get more freedom to attack more. Sometimes we also have to take a step back. It's not like you keep flighting the ball and keep getting hit for sixes. You change your plans accordingly,“ he added.
 
