NAGPUR: A gamut of flowers welcomed each visitor at the 13th Plant and Flower, Mini Landscape Show and Garden Competition. The two-day exhibition was inaugurated by district collector Sachin Kurve. Organized by city   in association with   at the Institution of Engineers (I), North Ambazari Road, the event will culminate on Sunday with prize distribution ceremony at 5pm.

 Photos, stamps and currency notes of various countries — all related to flowers and plants — were displayed in the gallery leading towards the hall. “I am surprised to find participation on such a big scale in the event and I am glad that citizens of the city are taking keen interest in the event. It is a pleasure to visit an event like this in the city,” said Kurve. The show having more than 100 exhibit categories comprised sections such as cut roses, perennial and seasonal cut flowers, flower arrangements and decorations, ornamental foliage plants, cacti, floral stamps, floral petal carpets, bouquets and garlands and hanging baskets, besides others. Prizes were given to participants in each section, selected by a jury of garden experts. Marigolds, sunflowers, dianthus, daisy and seasonal flowers like pansies adorned the display.
 
 “Last year, we had 80-90 participants. This year, we have more than 150 people who have contributed their plants for the competition as well as the exhibition. The interest in flora and fauna is increasing,” said organizer Sunil Gorde, adding that for the first time this year, the exhibition had an array of petunias in hanging baskets. About 150 chrysanthemums alone were contributed by 20 participants. NMC garden superintendent   said, “This is our initiative to inspire people to take interest in the flora and fauna. This year, we are also creating awareness about bad effects of cutting trees and pollution.”
 
 Sunita Sharma, an expert who co-created a model of peacock using orchids said, “Every year we try to support one social issue through the medium of flowers. This year, we wanted to support the ban on Chinese manja since it injures several people and birds.” Petal carpets made using of petals of roses and marigolds on social themes were another attraction at the event. Wearing helmet, protecting trees and saving nature are some of the themes. A section titled ‘Tray Garden’ was a spectacle.
 
 The   also conducts a plantation programme every year during Dussera. It has adopted villages in Melghat and conducts initiatives to promote a greener environment.
 
 (Reporting by )
 
 
