In a first-of-its-kind initiative, women folk in Malayalam film industry have joined hands to form a special collective that will address women’s issues. Titled ‘Women Collective in Cinema’, the unbrella organisation will comprise of actors, filmmakers, technicians, make-up artistes, extras, stylists and other technicians to ensure gender parity. “The idea is to have a forum for women where they can address gender specific issues and will work for equal opportunity and dignity of women employees in the industry,” says  , editor who will head the collective along with a team of actors and technicians. Isn’t it time for mana Tollywood also follows suit? Hyderabad Times spoke to actresses, singers, stylists and directors to find out if they would like to form a similar collective? Looks like not everyone is all for it, though. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 On one hand we talk about equality and say both men and women are equal. So, by that yardstick, when there is no such body for men, then why must be have one for women? We do have an actors association which caters to the needs of artistes in the industry. I personally feel we women shouldn’t try to portray ourselves as the weaker sex. Telugu film industry is a great place to work in and every one is respected if you do good work. 
 
 
 I think it is an awesome move. Malayalam film industry has always set the gold standard for good cinema with their filmmaking and story telling, and now they have set a precedent for gender rights. While I have some reservations about the idea of having a similar forum in Tollywood, I think the unprecedented initiative opens up a debate about gender equality across Indian film fraternity. I for one do not believe such committees can solve the problem and would rather start with trying to make awards gender neutral to start with. That could go long way in paving the way for a level playing field. 
 
 
 
 I believe it is a great idea to have a forum that will bat for women folk. While I don’t think that Tollywood illtreats women and we have unions that work for artistes and technicians who work for all 24 crafts, it would definitely help to have an umbrella organisation that will be for the women, by the women and of the women, to give the women a voice and will help fight against exploitation.
 
 
 
 While there can be no denying that it’s good to have an all women’s association I feel the body must have a mix of both men and women as their members. There are a few men in our industry who are feminists and believe in equal rights for women, it would be great if we can bring them on board as well. After all both men and women have equal stake in making Tollywood a better place for everyone, irrespective of their gender.
 
 
 I think it’s a fantastic move. In fact, the Malayalam film industry has set a very progressive precedent for the rest of the country to follow. In a patriarchal society like ours, such organisations are very much needed. It’s a great idea and I think we should start a similar collective in Tollywood as well. 
 
 
 Rather than waiting for some else to do it for us, women should come together to address their own problems.
 After all we too have our rights, voices and opinions. Though I have never faced any such problem in the industry, it is always useful to have a union that would cater to women-centric problems and fight against inequality as and when they pop up.
 Every department in Tollywood — be it producers, directors, actors, costume designers etc — have their respective unions, so why not women? I truly think there will come a time when the Telugu film industry too will follow the lead of Malayalam film industry and come up with an all-women collective inclusive of all the women working in different spheres of the 
 profession.
 
 
