BENGALURU: Five people, including three women, were arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 20-year-old woman and her mother before stripping and torturing the daughter on the night of January 14-15 in north-west Bengaluru. Police announced the arrests on Friday and gave details of the incident.

 The abductors suspected the duo had sheltered Shaukath, who hails from Assam, and his friend, a minor who is related to one of the accused. Nandini Layout police arrested Tasina Rehman, 32,  , 27, Indramma Raju, 28, Imran Pasha, 28 and  , 33, residents of Yeshwantpur, M S Palya and Lakshmidevi Nagar.
 
 The younger woman said she and her mother were kidnapped from their houses and taken in an autoricks haw to a desolate place near the Tin Factory on Old Madras Road.
 
 “My mother is on the housekeeping staff at a private hospital. Shaukath, who reportedly eloped with the minor girl, is my mother's colleague. He's like a family friend and would come often to our house in Lakshmidevi Nagar,“ she said. During these visits, Shaukath became friendly with a 15-year-old girl in the neighbourhood.
 
 On January 12 and 13, Shaukath visited his colleague's house.
 
 “On January 14, Tasina and the other accused came to my house, asking for him.They said the 15-year-old girl, a relative of Tasina, is missing and they thought Shaukath had eloped with her,“ she said. The women tried calling Shaukath but his mobile was switched off.
 
 “They asked me to show where he stayed. I didn't know his house but he had said lived in Assam Colony near Tin Factory .The accused bundled me into an autorickshaw and took me there. But we couldn't locate his house. I was taken to a far-off place where Tasina and Yasmin attacked me, and said I was misleading them. I pleaded innocence but they did not listen to me. They took me in the autorickshaw to Tasina's house in Lakshmidevi Nagar where they stripped me and attacked me brutally before my mother, who was also brought there,“ she said.
 
 “They stuffed chilli powder into my pri vate parts. When my mother tried to save me, they thrashed her too,“ the victim added. The accused allegedly made the younger woman lie on the floor and hit her on the back with wooden logs, police said. The accused also branded the daughter on her back and legs with a spatula used to make dosas.The accused took them to the mother's house where they thrashed them again.
 
 The next morning, the mother and daughter lodged a complaint with Nandini Layout police. “We first detained the three women and later the two men. We took the 20year-old for medical tests and the reports proves the brutal attack,“ police said.
 
 Shaukath and the minor girl were found in KR Puram late on Friday and the former was arrested under POCSO Act for allegedly abducting the latter. According to police, Tasina, Imran and Jabiulla were siblings and Yasmin was Jabiullah's wife. Indramma, a social worker, was Tasina's neighbour .
 
