Panchkula: Eleven children — seven in Chandigarh and four in   — are playing   Challenge, police said on Tuesday, a day after it came to light that the suicide of a 16-year-old boy from Panchkula may be linked with the notorious online game.

 Police had scanned the mobile phones of these children following its investigation into the death of Karan Thakur, who had hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Sector 4 on September 23. Police had also interacted with his father Devinder Thakur. He had told the cops about a few friends of Karan who could be playing the game. Police had also visited various schools. Links of the deadly game were found on the phones of the kids.
 
 Panchkula commissioner of police A S Chawla said the phones of these children have been confiscated. “Their identity cannot be revealed at this moment keeping in mind the sensitivity of the case,” said Chawla. “We have sensitized the schools and an advisory has also been issued,” he said.
 
 Regarding the Karan suicide case, Chawla said he had deleted data from his phone before he ended his life. A cyber cell team is trying to recover the data.
 
 Devinder told TOI that a day before his death, Karan formatted his mobile phone and even informed his mother. He told her he had done so to avoid any distraction while preparing for his upcoming exams.
 
 Officials of cyber cell said the creators of Blue Whale targeted children who had been feeling low or suffering from depression through updates on various social networking websites. Apparently, the name of the game had also been changed by the developers after it got highlighted in the media.
 
 BOX:
 
 Parents informed
 
 Police have sensitized parents of the 11 children from Panchkula and Chandigarh playing online game Blue Whale Challenge. Meetings with the school heads were also held. Cops instructed them to inform parents if they find something wrong in the behaviour of the child.
 
 GAME TRAP
 
 Blue Whale Challenge, which also goes by a number of other names like ‘Wake me up at 4.20’, ‘a silent house’, ‘a sea’ is not easily accessible online and can’t be downloaded using search engines or app stores. The game is made available to potential victims by the administrators of Blue Whale, who are feeling depressed, and share their feelings on social media. Once the contact has been made with potential victims, the administrators send them the game link and goad them to play.
 
 
