Nagpur: Are students from economically weaker sections being discriminated against in schools? For the first time, we may get an answer based on a pan-India sample survey to be conducted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).

 The survey, likely to begin in a few months, will lead to the release of NCPCR’s first Report on Safe and Secure Environment in India (ARSSEI).
 
 Priyank Kanoongo, member of NCPCR, said, “This report is related to implementation of Right to Education (RTE) Act and we have kept six indicators as benchmark. We want to know what kind of treatment do students from economically weaker section or those admitted under   quota are getting. Actually, this discrimination happens through adults because kids themselves are innocent and form opinions based on what they are told by authority figures.”
 
 He added that providing a secure environment was crucial for keeping kids in school. Kanoongo was in the city on Monday to take stock of government schools in Vidarbha.
 
 The tool (questionnaire) is based on 72 questions which will cover all aspects. The unique part about this survey is it will be filled by students.
 
 “These kids, whose age group falls within the purview of RTE, will answer those questions and it will help us get a direct insight,” said Kanoongo. The idea of asking children to fill up the questionnaire came from the NCPCR’s experience while working on the New Education Policy draft. “We interacted and consulted various groups of children and that was an eye opener. We realized children are the best individuals to highlight the problems faced by themselves,” said Kanoongo.
 
 Around 8 lakh students across the country will be included in the survey. Kanoongo said, “In Nagpur region, the sample survey will include 35 private schools and 115 government schools that will be chosen by the education department. Thus we can presume that around 1,500-2,000 students from the region will participate in this survey.”
 
 Midday meals served in government and government-aided schools will also be covered under this survey. Kanoongo said that the final report would be holistic. 
 
 “The data from this survey will then be matched with that of ministry of health which studied region-wise nutrient deficiencies. So if in area ‘X’ there is an iron deficiency and in area ‘Y’ there is zinc deficiency among children, we will be able to give area-specific guidelines for correcting such problems,” said Kanoongo. 
 
 He added that midday meals serve a dual purpose. “While everyone focuses on the fact that midday meals keep children coming to school, it plays a bigger role in providing nutrition to kids that come from a deprived section of our society,” said Kanoongo.
 
 
