NAGPUR: “Electronic voting machines have drastically reduced unethical practices and rampant use of money by those contesting elections. Advent of   has thus curbed corrupt practices,” said  , director of Nehru Science Centre, on Tuesday. 

 “Not only the voting system but also the functioning of bureaucracy has undergone a sea change and brought about transparency,” Khened said while delivering the Sir   memorial lecture on ‘Movers and shakers of digital technology and Internet’ at  . The programme was organized to mark National Science Day.
 
 Highlighting the impact of technology, he said, “Earlier, people had to stand for hours in queues to book railway tickets. Now, it can be done with the click of a computer mouse. Introduction of ‘Aadhaar’ card, a unique identification number, has been another revolutionary change. More than 90% Indians have now got identity cards which are used for availing various government schemes.”
 
 Giving an example of LPG, Khened said that instead benefits of subsidies given by the government reaching the people living under below poverty line (BPL), more than 60% of the liquefied gas was routed to hotels and restaurants.
 
  With the government directly crediting the amount of subsidy to the bank account of beneficiaries, the middlemen indulging in corrupt practices have been eliminated, he added.
 
  Where there is human influence, there is corruption. But, technology has replaced the human influence to a great extent, he said.
 
 Khened gave the example of Pune-based entrepreneur Sameer Bhatia who invented  .
 
  “Earlier, one had to be a big scientist or a professor at a renowned university to acquire e-mail id and send mails, Khened said. But one fine day, Bhatia invented a platform called Hotmail, the first-ever space on Internet where common people could send and receive e-mails. It was an innovation that transformed the country.”
 
 As part of celebrations, a science march was organized by RSC which passed through various areas in which teachers, people and students participated. They carried placards and raised slogans, highlighting the importance of science. 
 
