PUNE: It has been over three months since the Centre declared Japanese encephalitis (JE) a notifiable disease, but the family physicians in the city are still unaware about the move, primarily due to the lack of sensitization drive on the part of the civic body.

 The Union health ministry had issued the notification regarding the move on September 21 last year, which makes it mandatory for private medical practitioner to report every case of JE (confirmed as well as suspected) to local health authorities. 
 
 This is done to ensure that appropriate measures are initiated to contain the spread of the mosquito-borne disease.
 
 The issue assumes significance as two students were recently found positive for JE in the city last month. Medical experts said the emergence of JE virus should be looked upon as a warning sign and doctors should keep an high index of suspicion to identify the viral disease.
 
 “Most family physicians in the city are not aware that JE has been declared a notifiable disease as the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) has not taken enough efforts to sensitise them. Barring some neurologists, there is hardly any awareness among the doctors about the move,” senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar, advisor of the   (IAP), Pune branch, told TOI.
 
 Paediatrician Jayant Joshi, president of IAP, Pune branch said, “Every case of fever with encephalopathy (brain inflammation) in Pune should be probed for JE as it has been declared a notifiable disease now. Screening of patients visiting the country’s endemic areas also needs to be done to rule out the possibility of the disease.” 
 
 When contacted, senior family physician Prakash Mahajan said, “We have no clue that JE has been declared a notifiable disease. We have not received any communication from PMC in this regard.”
 
 Family physician Sanjay Wagh, president of General Practitioners Association (IAP), Pune branch, too said he is yet to receive any communication from the local health authorities about the move.
 
 S T Pardeshi, chief of the health department at PMC, said, “This is the first time that two persons have been diagnosed with JE in the city. We will initiate measures to sensitize and educate family physicians, paediatricians and other doctors to notify confirmed as well as suspected case of JE to us to contain the disease. Our health staff took up containment measures in terms of spraying insecticides and larvicides in the areas where two cases were reported from.”
 
 The notification
 
 Japanese encephalitis is an important public health concern in the country and demands for early reporting for effective implementation of preventive measures.
 
 In order to ensure early diagnosis and case management, reduce transmission, address the problems of emergency and spread of disease in newer geographical areas, it is essential to have complete information of all JE cases.
 
 The blood samples of all the JE suspected cases have to be sent to the   hospital to be tested by Elisa technique.
 
