   2016 was a year that made everyone sit up and realise that the world is in transition; identifying what this year has in store is vital for those in politics and business, where big decisions and big money rest on getting things right. But it is important for other sectors too — like charity and education.    Oxfam recently released a document titled ‘An Economy for the 99%’. The report contained some mind-boggling facts. The authors noted that the world’s richest eight people owned as much as the world’s poorest 50% put together. They reported too that the richest man in Vietnam earns more in one day than the worst-paid worker earns in ten years. And that one in nine people on the planet go to bed hungry each night.    The report highlights some figures from India too that make for startling reading, both about global trends, but also about the country itself. The annual dividends paid to the owner of the Zara fashion house are 800,000 times the annual wage paid to a garment worker working in India. Most striking of all though is the fact that the wealthiest one percent own 58% of the country’s total wealth. This is particularly problematic given recent research that shows that a country’s growth is slowed down by the number of billionaires it has.    Tackling inequality is perhaps the most important thing that politicians do in any country. Working out how to manage the ultra-rich who have strong vested interests in minimising tax bills and maximising their own returns is no easy task, especially given the efforts the wealthy put into lobbying politicians, and the important role that business can and does play in helping an economy grow.    What is less difficult, however, is encouraging philanthropy. This is an area that is changing fast in India today. According to a recent report prepared by Bain & Co, the number of Indians giving money to charity the last six years has climbed dramatically, with fully 100 million more people giving time or money to good causes in 2013 than in 2009. That highly encouraging trend appears to be continuing — which is important given that despite the impressive change, the 28% of the population who give to charity is a far cry from the 74% who make donations in the UK.    Of course, the contributions of the super rich can be transformational not just in the short but also in the long term — especially in the most important driver of social change and equalisation: education. Oxford University’s Worcester College (of which I am a Senior Research Fellow) recently celebrated its 300th anniversary, following the gift of an English baronet, Sir Thomas Cookes, for the foundation of a place of learning for scholars in Oxford. He was following in the footsteps of other major donors, like John de Balliol, who left a grant intended to ‘provide perpetual maintenance for poor scholars’ at the same university some 750 years ago. Balliol College is still going strong.    Then of course there is the most famous philanthropic donation in this field — which connects directly to Chennai. An employee of the East India Company who rose to become governor of the British fort of St George, he did well for himself (too well, in fact, because he was relieved of his post following repeated complaints about how good he was at lining his own pockets).    The epitaph on his tomb would have done attendees to the World Economic Forum in Davos proud — since like them, he was a true global citizen. ‘Born in America, in Europe bred, In Africa travell’d and in Asia wed’ (at the Fort of St George in Madrassapatinam, no less). ‘Much good, some ill, he did,’ reads his tomb with rather touching honesty.    Being rich brings responsibilities. The game is not how little you can get away with paying in taxes, but how much you can give back, especially if good fortune has smiled on you. The gift given by the former governor of Fort St George, Elihu Yale, lies behind one of the best and most famous universities in the world — in Yale’s case, with the second largest university endowment on the planet.    Would it not be lovely if each of the current 84 billionaires in India took inspiration from history? Many have made fortunes in the past, but their names disappeared like ashes in the wind. Those who respect their fellow men and women make the greater impact over time, because they used their resources to transform the lives of others, rather than spending on themselves. No one ever puts up statues or names universities and colleges after those who are rich; but they do for those who are generous.       