NEW DELHI: The Union ministry of women and child development has approached the Delhi government and the police commissioner, bringing to their notice cases of   forms and fraud being perpetrated by miscreants in the name of “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao”, a flagship scheme of the   government.

 Secretary of the WCD ministry Leena Nair has written a letter to Delhi’s chief secretary M M Kutty and top cop Amulya Patnaik sharing details of the complaints.
 
 Nair has sought that the police commissioner “initiate immediate action to investigate and register FIRs to check fraud”. Earlier this month, the WCD ministry had issued a statement, warning people against fake   being circulated in different states and referred the matter to  . Now, the ministry is receiving similar complaints from the national capital.
 
 The WCD secretary, in her letter to the   chief, said that “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao” does not have any individual cash incentives—it has no provision of direct cash transfer to anyone’s account. “Unfortunately, it is found that some miscreants are misusing the name of the scheme by falsely promising cash payments up to Rs 2 lakh to a girl child,” Nair said. “While this was predominantly happening in Uttar Pradesh, it is now found that the menace is spreading to Delhi as well.”
 
 Areas where these cases have been reported from include Tikri, Bhatti Khurd, Dakshinpuri Extension, Sangam Vihar, Sanjay Colony, Sarita Vihar and Adarsh Nagar. 
 
 Nair stressed the need for immediate action and necessary directions to the authorities concerned to file FIRs in the cases. The ministry is planning to launch an awareness campaign through print and electronic media to warn the masses and inform them about the scheme.
 
 “The scheme focuses on challenging mindsets and deep-rooted patriarchy in the societal system in order to value girl child, strict enforcement of PC&PNDT Act and advancing education of the girl child. The focus is also on issues of women empowerment over a life cycle continuum,” the ministry said. 
 
 It has taken up the matter with the states from where cases of fraud are being reported. The states include Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Bihar.
 
 
