KOLKATA: The rain forecast during Durga Puja — at least on two days — has put   in the city in a bind. While many of them have already started putting in place precautionary measures, some are seeking divine intervention.

 According to the Met department prediction, Durga Puja this year is likely to be rain-soaked and the weather could play spoilsport on at least two days during the festival. The only silver lining is that the damage, as of now, could be limited to only two days but the Met department is yet to forecast the specific dates.
 
 For the organisers at the extremely popular Md Ali Park Durga Puja on Central Avenue, it is the case of once bitten twice shy. “We have suffered due to rains in the past, which is why we remain ready with precautionary measures every year even if there is no forecast for rain. Since the ground gets slushy, we are ready with sand to dry the wet pockets. There are bricks so that we can put them if there is mild waterlogging. This apart, KMC keeps water pumps ready,” said Dinesh Bajaj, chairman of the Puja committee. 
 
 The organizers of Kumartuli Park Sarbojanin Durgatsav are also likely to face the same problem. Here the entire ground gets slushy even during a moderate rain. At the Maddox Square Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, popularly known as the Maddox Square Puja, which attracts lakhs of people every day from across the city and age groups, organisers are banking on two huge pandals inside the ground to provide shelter to pandal-hoppers in case it rains.
 
 “We will be having two pandals inside the ground. One will be the big Puja pandal that is around 7,000 sq ft in size. In case of a shower, many people can take refuge inside. The other pandal is being set up by a private entity for different events where people can take shelter if it rains. In the past, we have not faced any problem of water-logging,” said Shib Shankar Basu, treasurer.
 
 Many organisers are seeking divine help against rain during the biggest festival of the state. “We have taken some precautions, like covering the area outside the pandals and deploying people to clean the area. But if it rains for a few hours continuously, there is very little anybody can do. We pray that the weather gods spare the festival,” said Saptarshi Basu, oraganising secretary of the Ballygunge Cultural Association. 
 
 
