 Racing's   says he's not worried about his relationship with young, hotshot team-mate   falling apart should the pair be fighting for the world championship, with 2016 already a tough test.

 Ricciardo and Verstappen are entering their first full season together, given the 19-year-old's promotion to Red Bull's top team from last year's Spanish Grand Prix - which he won on debut, making him the youngest-ever winner.
 
 The match-up is one of F1's most hotly anticipated, given the Dutchman's talent - and breathtaking ability to pass, including one on champion-elect   during a torrentially wet Brazilian GP around the outside of Turn 3 where most would spin off. It was one for the ages, and governing body the FIA duly recognized it, deeming it 'Action of the Year'.
 
  
  
 But Ricciardo says the pair's 15-lap fight for the lead of last year's Malaysian GP, one the Australian won after   retired, proved that they can fight cleanly when the pressure is at its maximum.
 
 "That's something which we're aware of as competitors and we know there's a chance that things might get more competitive or whatever," said Ricciardo. "But to be honest, I think already last year [that] we put emphasis on trying to beat each other and try to win races and get podiums. So I felt like Malaysia was a great example where we raced hard but fair and I think showed a lot of respect for each other. 
 
 "For me if we ultimately come down to a championship, and we're both in the hunt, I guess there's more pressure and attention on everyone," he added. "If we can remain respectful and mature and acknowledge victory or defeat in the right way, then I feel we can maintain a solid enough relationship to keep the team moving in the right direction, as opposed to trying to hold each other back for whatever reason. So I'm confident we can continue like this."
 
 In terms of how it washed out at the end of 2016, Ricciardo controlled qualifying, 11-6 the split - his pole position lap in Monaco a masterpiece; but the races were far closer, 8-7 in the Australian's favour when they could be compared.
 
 But it may take a little while for potential of a title battle to heat up, with neither driver set the timing sheets alight during pre-season testing - the pair unable to get close to the top time of Ferrari's Kimi Räikkönen; and only completed 62 per cent of the laps run by the benchmark Mercedes.
 
 Both are fighting fit, though, with F1's more aggressive, faster cars again making the driver the limit of performance. The new cars have already been more than three seconds faster during pre-season testing, meaning more g-forces - requiring Olympian-level fitness to handle.
 
 "I definitely feel like I'm in good nick but I want to obviously keep on top of it and keep getting better so I feel like I've started off definitely on the right foot but it's a season we probably won't be able to taper off too much," Ricciardo said.
 
 The season's opening round in Melbourne on March 26 will be the first physical test, but the real challenge is expected during September 15-17 at the Formula 1 Singapore Grand Prix - hosting its 10th event this year. "It's the one race where the drivers look battered when they get out of the cars," says F1 commentator Martin Brundle, an ex-driver of 158 Grand Prix starts.
 
 For the fans, it's a spectacular mix of F1 under lights, top international artists (last year headlined by pop princess Kylie Minogue, rock icons Queen + Adam Lambert and US-band Imagine Dragons) - along with a host of race-themed activities, cool bars and hawker-style eateries.
 
 For the drivers, it's a real test of human endurance with cockpit temperatures reaching beyond 55 degrees Celsius at racing speeds, and only made worse by three layers of fireproof clothing and a helmet. No surprise then that the drivers lose up to 3kg in fluid over a two-hour period. 
 
 "The aim is to be better prepared than everyone [there], and I believe I am but it's certainly one that if a driver doesn't quite take some of those real physical ones seriously, if they're out enjoying their weekends more than they should, then I definitely feel it will show this year," said Ricciardo. 
 
 Things are made just a bit easier when you enjoy it, though. "I think hats off to them, they [Singapore] do it really well," he said. "I think the weekend runs awesome and for us to kind of juggle that European time zone whilst we're out there is unique so I think that's cool. And the track's built a bit of a reputation for being probably the most physical one and the longest race of the year. There's a lot of hype and excitement that comes with that race and I certainly enjoy it on the calendar."
 
 The season gets underway in Melbourne on March 26.
 
