MUMBAI:   will certainly give anything to be piloting one of the 12   competing in this weekend’s inaugural Nexa P1 Powerboat, Indian Grand Prix of the Seas. But the only way that can happen will be if some misfortune were to strike any of the 12 regular pilots and cause the unlucky individual to pull out of the event. That would then pave the way for the 47-year-old Brit, who is here as a standby pilot, to pit his skills among some of the world's best along the waters by Marine Drive.

 Taft doesn't come across as someone secretly wishing for such an eventuality, but the man who was named 2014 P1SuperStock   admits watching his peers go full-throttle from shore will indeed be a tough pill to swallow. “It's very hard,” says Taft, following a press briefing here on Wednesday. “We are racers, we want to race. We all think we are the best. We want to show each other that we are the best. I want to be on the water.”
 
 However, he seems to have made his peace with the role of spectator. “I can't wait to watch it as a spectator too. I know where I'm standing when I watch it, if I'm not on the water because I may be on the water in the safety boat. But if not, I'll be up at the first corner and then move around the bay.”
 
 Taft accompanied 10 of the 12 machines that got their first taste of the innovative 5.2km racetrack on water - the first of its kind in Powerboat Racing - on Wednesday. And he believes the unique feature could lead to some surprise results. “For people to say 'you as racers have got to remain on track' is new to all of us. So some guys who are really good on open water, they may struggle and those not so good on open water, they may show those who are what it's all about. It's fascinating,”
 he says.
 
 With the boats also having to undertake extra long laps at this event compared to what they are used to in existing Powerboat Racing competitions, it makes for another decisive aspect according to Taft. “It will be crucial,” he says. “Especially on Sunday, when you've got to take three (long laps). Get it wrong and you will lose time obviously. You may get caught up behind another boat which you don't want. Get it right and you may be able to get past that boat.”
 
