JAISALMER: Looking onto the possible threat on  ,   have been made at the   adjoining Jaisalmer,  , Barmer and Ganganagar.

 Joint patrolling by BSF and police has already been started along with the issuance of security advisory to army and air force headquarters in these areas. Police have chalked out the complete arrangements of Republic Day. Search operation of Poonam Stadium was conducted by CIDBI and district special branch again on Tuesday with anti-segued and deep search metal detectors which discovered many metal clinchers and the stadium has been sealed post search. 
 
 Speaking on the possible threat on Republic Day, SP Gaurav Yadav said tight security arrangements have been made in border districts. A special police team was formed in Jaisalmer to conduct intense searches in hotels, dharamshalas, railway stations, bus stops along with tent resorts and sand dunes. 
 
 Yadav said that permanent fronts are being formed at all police stations in border districts. Along with this, all old smugglers and suspicious persons have been called to respective police stations for interrogation where BSF officers will be present. 
 
 The SP said advisory has been issued to strengthen security arrangements at sensitive establishments of army and air force at border. Direction has been given to increase vigil along with screening of labourers at ongoing construction inside the premises.
 
 Meanwhile, BSF has tightened its security at border areas and additional personnel have been deployed especially at Ganganagar and Jaisalmer. All senior BSF officers are at the border for ongoing operation alert exercise started from January 15 and will continue till January 28.
 
 BSF DIG Ravi Gandhi said that information about infiltration is continuously coming from intelligence agencies and for that reason, BSF is conducting Day-Night Border Domination exercise. Reviews are also being done on border tactics and internal planning.
 
 Orders have been given to foil any kind of possible intrusion and untoward activities, said Gandhi. 
 
 
