LUCKNOW: They appreciate Prime Minister   for his tough decision, but they are also happy with   for his development initiatives. This is what voters in UP think about the two politicians, making the   and the Samajwadi Party as main contenders in the UP assembly polls. 

 A survey done by the   (CSDS) in the first two weeks of December shows UP is facing a tough popularity battle between Modi and Akhilesh. According to the survey, while Modi gets people's approval for taking tough decisions, the former is popular for his development-centric politics.
 
 CSDS, Kanpur, director Prof AK Verma says Modi has adopted a multi-pronged strategy to win support, while the SP government has undertaken several measures to benefit the rural poor and improve infrastructure in the state. Modi (and his government) will try to extract maximum political mileage out of the surgical strikes against Pakistan, the study says. 
 
 "The strikes generated unprecedented support for Modi. The public in general credited the army for successful operation, some also appreciated Modi's decisive role in making it possible," says Verma.
 
 "Projects like Lucknow Metro, Lucknow-Agra Expressway, new bridges, improved electricity situation are likely to attract the urban voter, while schemes such as free irrigation water for farmers; Samajwadi Pension Scheme, Kanya Vidya Dhan are popular with rural voters. Through this, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has earned a reputation for his commitment to development and clean politics," adds Verma.
 
 The study says inclusion is yet another component which Modi will cash on, adding that through Rashtriya Muslim Manch, Modi is trying to reach out to Muslims. BJP's condemnation of the concept of triple talaq and its effort to raise debate over the issue many have angered Muslim clerics, but have reached out to scores of Muslim women who are afraid of openly expressing their opinion on the issue.
 
 The study also says BJP is likely to use the Kairana incident, where Hindus were reported to be fleeing due to threats from Muslim criminals, as a plank for political mobilisation.
 
 The report says, a move which is likely to have some impact on the outcome of elections is demonestisation. People, study says, have generally hailed it despite difficulties in getting cash.
 
 However, charges of poor law and order and casteism against the SP can dent Akhilesh's image, says the study. The SP feud, too, has hit party's image, it adds. 
 
 But Modi government also suffers from a major disadvantage - it has not projected any chief ministerial candidate. In contrast, the voters can easily identify the state and its development with Akhilesh Yadav, it adds.
 
