TIVIM: Till two to three weeks ago, the   (BJP) had counted the Tivim constituency as one of its wins, that was till MLA Kiran Kandolkar found himself on a sticky wicket following an attack on St Andre BJP MLA Vishnu Surya Wagh, which elicited criticism from the opposition over alleged ‘goonda raj’ in the constituency. In 2012, Kandolkar had defeated veteran politician Nilkanth Halarnkar, who had contested on the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ticket, by a huge margin.

 For the February 4 polls, there are four candidates in the fray for the assembly seat from this constituency. Besides BJP’s Kandolkar and Congress’ Halarnkar, there is AAP’s Pradeep Amonkar and NCP’s Douglas Sequeira. However, the main tussle promises to be between the Lotus and the Hand.
 
 Tivim was, at one time, with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), but it was then Congress veteran, Dayanand Narvekar, who changed the political scene in the constituency. 
 
 In 1994, on being moved from Aldona to Tivim, Narvekar trounced MGP’s Vinayak Naik, and since then the MGP has been virtually decimated in the constituency. Narvekar had represented Tivim in 1977 on the MGP ticket, again in 1980, but this time on the Congress (U) ticket, and yet again in 1984 (Congress), before he moved to Aldona in 1989. 
 
 From the 1989 polls the strength of the Goa assembly increased to 40 from 30, and Aldona was one of the new constituencies, carved out mainly from the old Tivim constituency. Tivim constituency today comprises of eight villages Camurlim, Colvale, Revora, Nadora, Pirna, Assonora, Sirsaim and Tivim.
 
 Working on the weakness of the MGP, BJP cultivated a band of grassroots workers, and, in 2002, Sadanand Shet managed to wrest the seat from the Congress in the early polls that were held. He had on his side the advantage of the BJP having been in government in the state from October 2000, headed by  .
 
 Shet, who is now the general secretary of the BJP, could not hold on to the seat and Halarnkar won the seat on the NCP ticket in 2007. In 2012, Halarnkar lost to Kandolkar in the anti-Congress wave despite his having initiating many works in the constituency as its minister.
 
  is one of the major problems facing the constituency, especially after the mining ban and stopping of sand extraction. An industrial area has been notified in Sirsaim, but the government could not acquire the identified land due to some technical difficulties.
 
 As chairman of the Goa State Horticulture Corporation, Kandolkar had, during his tenure, increased the number of vegetable outlets in an attempt to generate employment, and will be banking on this for some goodwill, at least from the lower strata of society.
 
 Two crucial projects — the power substation that supplies power to the whole of Bardez and the Assonora water treatment plant that provides treated water to Bardez and other adjacent parts — are in this constituency. However, sources said that despite having a water treatment plant, the constituency still faces the problem of irregular water supply.
 
 Additionally, while the sitting MLA can boast of several development works, including the Assonora market complex, a playground at Assonora, widening and hot mixing of the road from Karaswada to Assonora and beatification of the waterfall at Thorli Chandai, his list of pending works is also long and includes lack of proper garbage management, Assonora bypass, Colvale sports complex and upgradation of the health centre, among others .
 
 The attack on Wagh, allegedly by BJP workers, when he was returning from a cultural programme in Revora on December 19, 2013, put the focus on the local MLA. The opposition had lashed out at Kandolkar for ‘goonda raj’. Their contention was if a BJP MLA was not safe in his constituency, who else would.
 
 Since then, whatever Kandolkar may have done for improving basic amenities or for promoting women welfare in the constituency, the incident refuses to be erased from the voters mind, sources say.
 
 The opposition has also criticized Kandolkar for cosmetic development and practising discrimination. His workers are also alleged to resort to strong arm tactics.
 
 Halarnkar, on the other hand, has a cool approach and has been working with the people at the grassroots level for many years, even while in the opposition. He returned to the Congress fold over a year ago.
 
 To the surprise of Kandolkar supporters, Halarnkar’s candidature is being supported by his former rival, Dayanand Narvekar, who has been in the political wilderness after the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, when he resigned from the Congress. At a recent public meeting, Narvekar was the most vociferous in support of Halarnkar and accused Kandolkar of promoting gambling in the constituency. 
 
 In 1999, Narvekar (Congress I) had defeated Halarnkar (Goa Rajiv Congress).
 
 Analysts say Tivim could see a fierce battle for the 2017 polls.
 
