Dharmapuri: Cauvery water released from Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dams in Karnataka reached Biligundulu in Krishnagiri district, the river’s entry point in Tamil Nadu, at 8am on Friday.

 Central Water Commission (CWC) officials confirmed the arrival of Cauvery water, which was released from the dams in Kartnataka seven days ago, in Tamil Nadu.
 
 The CWC officials on Friday measured the water inflow at 1,100cusecs at Biligundulu. Karnataka had released 4000cusecs of water from the dams, a week ago. “The inflow to Biligundulu has been on rise and it crossed 1,300cusecs on Friday around 6pm,” the officials said.
 
 From Biligundulu, the water reached Hogenakkal around 12 pm. Public works department (PWD) officials at Mettur dam said the water was likely to reach the Stanley Reservoir around 10am on Saturday.
 
 The water level in Mettur dam was recorded at 20.25ft against its height of 120ft on Friday evening. The inflow to the dam was 37cusecs, whereas the outflow was 500cusecs.
 
 According to the PWD and CWC officials, the Cauvery water usually reaches Biligundulu at least 24 hours after it was released from Karnataka dams. “Due to severe drought, the river bed was extremely dry. So, it took seven days for water to reach Biligundulu,” they said.
 
 The Karnataka government started to release 4000cusecs of water from KRS and Kabini dams from July 2 to comply with the Supreme Court order. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal had ordered Karnataka to release 134tmc-ft water to Tamil Nadu from June-September. 
 
 Citing drought and poor water storage in its dams, the Karnataka government hadn’t released water in June. Subsequently, Tamil Nadu government moved the apex court, which directed Karnataka to share Cauvery water.
 
 Meanwhile, farmers in Tamil Nadu said the water released from Karnataka dams won’t be enough to meet their irrigation requirements. “Due to drought, the river beds are dry. The water is flowing through the rugged pathways, which will absorb a large quantity of it,” said S Kalianna Gounder, executive member, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam. “The water will not even meet the irrigation requirements of farmers of Salem and its neighbouring districts,” he added. 
 
 
