HOWRAH: The state government has installed 30 sophisticated spy cams in and around   to beef up security at the state secretariat. The Pan-Tilt-Zoom-technology-enabled cameras can film inside of cars, buses and trucks speeding through Vidyasagar Setu or Kona Expressway. Security at Nabanna will be spruced up further with the use of drones in next few months.

 While Kolkata Police oversees security within the secretariat,   (HCP) is in charge of its vicinity. Howrah police commissioner is responsible for protecting the secretariat’s surroundings. “Our focus will be on beefing up security vigil along two arms of Vidyasagar Setu that lie within 20-25 metres from Nabanna. Vehicles plying along these roads are a potential security threat to the secretariat,” said Howrah police commissioner DP Singh.
 
 The security overhaul follows recommendations by a   (NSG) team that had visited Nabanna in October and surveyed the infrastructure in and around the building. The home department then received a set of recommendations, including installation of as many cameras as possible on the flyover to track movement along the road from Santragachi and outside the VIP gate as well as the north and south gates. There should also be cameras covering the high security 13th and 14th floors of Nabanna, NSG had recommended. Till the latest installations, Nabanna had 60 cameras, but all of them faced inwards. There were none to monitor movement outside the building.
 
 “The PTZ cameras can capture perfect images to the minutest detail. They can zoom into film the inside of moving vehicles, even those plying with windowscreens rolled up. The high-resolution pictures captured by the PTZ spy cams will be fed directly to servers of our control room,” Singh said.
 
 Dwelling on further plans to beef up security around Nabanna, Singh said, “Apart from installing cameras, our security orientation for Nabanna includes introduction of drones around the secretariat. Some time in 2017, drones will be brought to maintain regular vigil on Nabanna’s exterior.”
 
 Cameras apart, the NSG team had observed: “Most security personnel were not ready to counter a threat. Their reaction time was hampered because they were busy playing games, chatting, watching videos or using mobile apps.” A ban on the use of mobile phones, except for emergency calls, was key among NSG’s 14 recommendations. The NSG had found that there are 320 personnel from the state at Nabanna. They include those from the Rapid Action Force, Spcial Branch (SB), police commandos, combat force and fire department. Apart from these, there are 100 private security personnel.
 
