HYDERABAD: To draw more Indian students to pursue higher education in the  , the   here on Monday announced Rs 8.38 crore 'Great Scholarships 2017' scheme.

 As part of the 'Great Britain' campaign, the council has come up with a new proposition 'Study UK: Discover You' wherein students can avail 198 'Great scholarships' in subject areas ranging from art and design to engineering, law and management. A total of 29 under-graduate and 169 post-graduate scholarships will be provided to students in various fields.
 
 For students to explore options, British Council is set to host an exhibition on 'Study UK: Discover You' at Hotel Taj Vivanta, Begumpet on February 7 from 2pm to 7pm wherein representatives from 20 UK universities will be available to resolve queries. Students can get all their questions answered on course choices, visas, applications, scholarships and more. 
 
 Moreover, students can also benefit from   on MBA, IT, and engineering, manufacturing coupled with insightful sessions by experts on student visas.
 
 The universities that are participating in the exhibition are  , London, Aston University, Edinburgh Napier University, Middlesex University, Kingston University, University of Warwick, London Metropoli tan University, University of Bristol among others.
 
 Apart from this, a mobile App has also been launched by the British Council on 'Study UK: Discover You' exhibition wherein students and parents can plan their visit to the exhibition. The App contains all necessary information about UK-based institutions. “The UK hosts four of the top 10 universities. Visas issued to Indian students has seen an increase of six percent in the last three quarters as compared to the previous year. Nearly 20,000 students from India visit UK for higher studies every year,“ said Meikwei Barker, director of British Council, South India.
 
 Explaining further on the Chevening, British government's flagship programme, Andrew McAllister, British deputy high commissioner, Hyderabad said, “The number of applications that we get for Chevening are not enough. Chevening is mostly for mid level and senior level professionals who can visit UK and get an opportunity to learn in various fields for a period of two to three months.“
 
