CHENNAI: In the digital era, many city schools are trying out different methods to draw students to books upgrading libraries, putting popular   works on shelves, and organising competitions to encourage reading.

  at Perambur has been conducting book review writing contests on a weekly basis. “In recent years, there has been an interest taken by schools, including ours, to focus on reading habits. We also offer a prize for the best review of books and authors as an incentive for children to participate. Consequently, they are also taking more books from the library,” said  . 
 
 The increased presence of students in libraries has also been seen in schools in rural areas. This is substantiated by the Annual Status of Education Report 2017 released by Pratham which showed an upsurge in usage of library books by school students. While there is an 8% jump in usage from last year in rural schools, the non-usage of books (number of students not using books in library) has come down by more than 10%. 
 
 However, not all schools are up to the mark. While many have increased the number of books in libraries, some have still not brought in books with mass appeal to attract students. 
 
 J D Johnson, senior principal of   in Tiruvannamalai, said they organised a national book week and library week on the campus where a host of contests are held (reading, writing and speaking). They also prescribe projects involving compuslory book references. 
 
 “I think schools pushing for reading related activities on campuses serve as a breather from the constant use of tablets and mobile phones for children. In this way, they are forced to spend some time with books which also help cultivate basic reading habits,” said Aravind V, a parent from R A Puram in Chennai.
 
 “CBSE schools have already emphasised on the reading aspect and students have to write book summaries as part of formative assessment. However, even state board schools have mandated library facilties and prescribe a set number of books,” he said. 
 
 
