BHOPAL: A construction labourer, cable operator and photographer came together to print fake notes, and got away with it for a full two months before they were caught.

 With the help of a scanner, a colour printer and glitter pen, they came close to the original, except for the watermark and security thread, and at first glance it was difficult to say it was fake.
 
 The alleged mastermind is Sayed Danish, 31, described by police as a habitual offender. Fake notes in denomination of Rs 2,000 and Rs 100, with a face value of Rs 2.6 lakh, were seized from the gang, said Crime Branch officers. This is the first fake note bust in   after  , say police. 
 
 Additional SP (crime) Rashmi Mishra said the accused were scanning real currency notes to create fakes. With a few added touches. A colour printer, a scanner, CPU, pen drive and thermocol cutter were seized from them. They would use good quality paper and try to scan three notes on a sheet, police said.
 
 They were not professionals and practised for more than a month before trying out their handiwork in the bazaar. But they were able to circulate only two fake 100-rupee notes to buy vegetables, Mishra said, adding the fakes notes seized from them did not have proper watermark. 
 
 Police named the accused as Sayed, Faheem Qureshi, Wasim Sheikh and Jitendra Raikwar. Sayed was in debt and decided to make a quick buck after demonetisation by printing fake notes, said police.
 
 The gang was busted when Qureshi was nabbed with counterfeit currency near Qazi Camp area of Old City, Mishra said. He had gone there to exchange notes with someone on 40% commission. Acting on a tip-off, the crime branch nabbed him and seized 75 fake notes of Rs 2,000 denomination from him. He broke down during interrogation and revealed names of his accomplices, say police. A few days ago, the gang had printed a bundle of 2,000-rupee fake notes, but could not succeed in circulating them because the look and feel were different and people were wary of accepting them.
 
 Accused & Their Role
 
 Sayed Danish, 31: The alleged mastermind, works in construction firm. He would cut notes and mark numbers with glitter pen. A habitual offender
 
 Faheem Qureshi, 32: A cable operator, his job was to circulate fake currency. He, too, is a habitual offender
 
 Wasim Sheikh, 38: A photographer, would cut notes and try to replicate security features with glitter pen
 
 Jitendra Raikwar, 28: Owns a photo studio. His job was to scan fake notes and take out prints 
 
 How they did it
 
 Scanned real notes to make copies on good quality paper. The first need was a good pair of eyes and steady hands to cut the notes. Then, they used a glitter pen to try and replicate the look of new notes and a few security features. After several failed attempts, they succeeded in making fake notes that were close to the original
 
 And why they failed
 
 It’s impossible to replicate security features, more so for a band of amateurs. So if it doesn’t look or feel right, don’t accept the note
 
