KOLKATA: Soon after a seven-member   bench ordered a medical examination of Calcutta high court judge, Justice CS Karnan, in connection with a  , he reacted sharply saying that he would not submit to any test, and that the order was erroneous, ridiculous and bad in law. 

 "This kind of harassment order against my sanity is an additional insult to an innocent Dalit judge who is of sound health and mind,"   said.
 
 Apart from the medical examination in a government hospital in Kolkata by a board of doctors on May 4, the SC bench also directed the   DGP to form a team of police officers which could help the medical board to carry out the examination.
 
  "If the DGP acts against me without my consent, I will pass an order against him. He should stay within limits. I won't submit to any treatment. I set aside the Supreme Court order. It is erroneous, ridiculous and bad in law. My earlier suo motu order can't be set aside by the seven-judge bench because they are the accused," Justice Karnan said. 
 
 "I will not conform to any test. If the DGP or any doctor tries to force me to face a test I will order their suspension and make them co-accused in this case," he added.
 
 He reacted to the order by setting up a court at his New Town residence in Kolkata. He distributed a two-page suo motu handwritten order on his official letterhead among reporters.
 
 "Am I mentally unstable? Who is the Supreme Court to judge that I have a mental illness? The seven judges looking at my case are corrupt," he told reporters.
 
  "I further direct the Director General of Police, New Delhi, to take all the seven judges and produce them to a psychiatric medical board attached to the AIIMS Hospital, New Delhi, to conduct appropriate medical tests on the seven accused and submit a copy of the report on or before May 7, 2017," Justice Karnan said in a signed order, a copy of which was given to the media. 
 
 Justice Karnan said before securing the seven judges, their respective families should be informed.
 
 Earlier the SC had restrained Justice Karnan from exercising administrative and judicial power.
 
