NAGPUR: Justice has been delayed and denied to a senior citizen who is fighting a battle for evicting his tenant since 1993. Now, the 77-year-old Balkrishna Deogade’s case is pending with the rent controller since 2012. Even after the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court’s orders in 2012 to complete the proceedings within six months and take a decision, nothing has moved till date. 

 Interestingly, the tenant, who was one of the respondents, expired and now his son is fighting the case. The senior citizen is fed up with the repeated adjournments as old age is not allowing him to attend the proceedings all the time.
 
 Injustice to   happens even after various   judgments had ruled in favour of owners from time to time. In Indian judiciary, over 3 crore cases are pending. Deogade’s petition is just one of them.
 
 The property is a godown in Telipura, Sitabuldi, which has been in the possession of Deogade’s family since decades. It was rented out.
 
 The senior citizen filed an application before the rent controller at Nagpur on July 22, 1993 under the provisions of the ‘Central Provinces and Berar Letting of Houses and Rent Control Order, 1949’. “I specified that the original building was under my family’s possession till father’s death after which the property was divided between me and brother. The godown was let out ten years before the application was filed.”
 
 Deogade asked the tenant to vacate the premises on the grounds that his family of four would need more space for bona fide residential purpose. He also informed about his tenant’s irregularity in payment of rent at the end of each month and he was in arrears of three month’s rent at the time. Deogade then asked the then rent controller to cancel tenant’s tenancy.
 
 After the rent controller failed to take a decision on his application, he knocked higher judiciary’s doors in 2012 contending that the tenant was adopting delaying tactics. He accused the rent controller of failing to take decisive and judicious action in the matter. His petition also states that the hearings were adjourned repeatedly that led to delay in disposing of the case.
 
 Over the years, the tenant didn’t respond to the court summons and also failed to appear during hearings, thus prolonging the case. He had requested the court to take action against tenant and close his evidence, as he was unable to hear regular hearings due to old age.
 
 In its reply in high court, the rent controller stated that he was looking after additional charges of land acquisition officer (Minor irrigation works). While assuring to take decision within six months, he had called on cooperation from both landlord and tenant. But even after five years, no decision was taken till date.
 
 
