Panaji: The Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said for a meaningful implementation of the Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA), all government departments and regulatory authorities that grant permissions and licences must be brought under the Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-Bound Delivery of Public Services) Act, 2013. Pointing out that the delivery of apartments and homes often took time due to delay on the part of government departments in issuing occupancy certificates, the GCCI has called for greater accountability on the part of the government. “A meaningful occupancy depends on release of water connection, electricity connection and sewage treatment plant consent to operate by the Goa State Pollution Control Board and an NOC by the panchayat. The government should assure time-bound release of these permissions for a meaningful implementation of RERA,” GCCI president Sandip Bhandare said. To address this delay, the GCCI has called for all departments to be brought under the Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-Bound Delivery of Public Services) Act, 2013. “Since these basic infrastructural facilities are entirely in the hands of the government, it is necessary to bring all departments and service providers under the ambit of the services guarantee act,” GCCI director general Ramakant Kamat pointed out. The GCCI has called for clearly defined timelines for government departments to grant permissions, licences as well as for provision of services like electricity, water supply, sewerage and roads. It has also suggested that all taxes and fees paid to the government should be transferred to a nodal agency such as GSIDC so that infrastructure works can be executed. The GCCI has pointed out that despite project developers paying the requisite taxes, infrastructure fees and charges, government departments often drag their feet in creating the required infrastructure.  “This is a long-endured problem by promoters of all projects in Goa. It is therefore suggested that payments and tax collected by the state government in respect of infrastructure tax, and other related taxes, fees, charges, premiums and interest should be put in another separate bank account,” the director general added. The GCCI has submitted these recommendations to the department of urban development and said that it wants authorities to be held accountable for “undue and unjustified delay” in issuing permissions. GCCI has called for timelines for government departments to grant permissions, licences as well as for provision of services like electricity, water supply, sewerage and roads. Delivery of apartments often took time due to delay in occupancy certificates, it said