PATNA: Three days after 
  praised Bihar CM’s “courageous step” in enforcing total prohibition, Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) on Sunday said it would continue to support the Centre’s decision of demonetisation till it reviews its stand in the last week of this month, fuelling speculations in political circles.

 “Our party will remain engaged in forming the world’s longest human chain for highlighting prohibition in the state on January 21, and after that we would observe the birth anniversary of veteran socialist leader Karpoori Thakur on January 24. We have decided to postpone the review of the JD(U)’s stand on   till January 24. We will now review the note ban issue in the last week of this month,” JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh told reporters.
 
 Singh also claimed that the difficulties faced by people due to the note ban had now started diminishing.
 
 Singh’s statement has triggered speculations about new   in Bihar amidst growing bonhomie between Modi and  .
 
 Reacting over Singh’s statement, BJP’s chief spokesperson Vinod Narayan Jha assertively said that CM Nitish Kumar and his party would continue to support the demonetisation, adding more fuel to the speculation.
 
 But it is not the first time that the JD(U) has extended the date for review of its stand on the note ban. Earlier, the party had categorically announced that it would review its stand on note ban after December 30 or on completion of 50 days period demanded by the PM. But after December 30, the JD(U)’s national spokesperson K C Tyagi said since Bihar CM was deeply involved in organising the ‘Prakshotsava’ in Patna and ‘Kalchakra Puja’ at Bodh Gaya, the party would review its stand on note ban after January 15.
 
 But now, Singh’s fresh statement extending the date of review till the last week of the month has given rise to the speculation, especially in the wake of the PM’s January 5 meeting at Gandhi maidan where both Modi and Nitish displayed unusual bonhomie and patted each other’s back for “successfully implementing” liquor ban in Bihar and Gujarat, respectively.
 
 Modi praised Nitish over implementation of total prohibition in Bihar despite objections from several quarters including Bihar BJP, calling it a “courageous step”. Modi’s praise for Bihar CM came after Nitish backed the PM’s demonetisation of two high-value currency notes just a day after its announcement on November 8 last year, even as his allies — the Congress and Lalu Prasad’s RJD — trained their guns on the Modi government over the surprise decision. Nitish stands alone as probably the only opposition leader who has come out in support of PM’s scrapping of high value notes. 
 
