CHENNAI: Ten district central cooperative banks (DCCBs), which exchanged Rs 467 crore demonetised notes with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), and a north Tamil Nadu-based DCCB, which was refused permission to exchange demonetised notes owing to violation of RBI guidelines, are under Income Tax scanner for suspected irregularities. Senior I-T officials told TOI that they had information that some village head men had used farmers' and gullible villagers' accounts in cooperative banks to deposit their money in Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations. Tho ugh   officials did not check the source of the money, I-T officials have started screening many of these accounts after sourcing relevant documents from Nabard last week.

 “We were aware of many village headmen using farmers' bank accounts to deposit old notes. Before getting down to action, we waited for the cooperative banks to exchange the old notes.Our officials have now started checking the accounts of the 10 DCCBs,“ a senior I-T official told TOI. Income tax officials are yet to lay their hands on the documents pertaining to the north  , which had allowed its customers to deposit more than Rs 20 crore in demonetised notes after the December 31 deadline.
 
 Nabard officials told TOI that as per RBI instructions, they checked only the ' ' (KYC) documents of people who had deposited demonetised currencies in their accounts.
 
 “Our mandate was not to check the source of money deposited in those accounts. Except for a few accounts, for which KYCs were not proper, we did not have reasons to suspect any transaction,“ said a senior Nabard official.
 
 Even in the case of nationalised banks, a lion's share of deposits of demonetised cur rencies were reported in rural branches, said I-T officials.“We searched Salem-based DCCBs and questioned several rural cooperative bank heads too. Similarly, in north   too, we searched a DCCB after we received information about the bank accounts being misused by village headmen, politicians and businessmen,“ the I-T official said.
 
 An individual in Tiruchengode in Namakkal deposited Rs 246 crore in a   bank branch when the demonetisation exercise was on. There are several other individuals and companies who worked as agents for moneybags to exchange scrapped notes. "Many of them deposited old notes in commercial banks and joined the  ," said the official.
 
