LUDHIANA: Women protesters, who took to the streets along with others demanding arrest of the accused in Wednesday's  , were manhandled and beaten up by policemen near Verka Milk booth on the LudhianaFerozepur highway on Saturday afternoon. Mintoo Kumar, 29, had succumbed to injuries on Friday.

 Police lathicharged, as the protesters refused to lift the blockade. Traffic on the highway was paralyzed for about two hours. Seeking arrest of the accused and compensation for the family, relatives and their supporters sat on a dharna placing Mintoo's body on the road. They alleged that the police had failed to take any action.
 
 Cops on the other hand claimed that they resorted to lathicharge as protesters had blocked emergency vehicles and even misbehaved with commuters. Cops were seen chasing and beating up protesters, including women.
 
 On February 22, Mintoo Kumar, a tubewell operator from  , had suffered serious injuries after a car hit his motorcycle near Ferozepur road octroi post. He had later succumbed to injuries.
 
 Family members of the deceased reached Verka Milk booth with his body on Saturday and were joined by more than 100 migrants who blocked all the points of LudhianaFerozepur road. Soon, police force from all nearby police stations and assistant commissioner of police (ACPSadar) Gurjit Singh reached the spot. And even as the cops were deployed on the spot to make diversions, it proved difficult to bring the situation under control. While cops failed to pacify the agitators even after two hours, some of them misbehaved with commuters after which police resorted to canecharge.
 
 Even though cops were seen   and dragging women protesters, senior police officials denied having roughed up women during the whole incident.“The mob had blocked the way of two ambulances during the protest. Therefore we had to take action,“ said ACP Gurjit Singh. He also denied that cops misbehaved with the women protesters.
 
 The protesters meanwhile claimed that the ambulan ces were allowed to pass through from the venue of protest without any delay . The normal traffic however could be restored after about two hours when cops disbursed the crowd after lathicharge.
 
 Parents of deceased claimed that cops were being lax in the case and had failed to take action even after three days of the accident. Meanwhile, senior police officials claimed that they have already recovered the car which was involved in the accident and the accused was likely to be arrested soon. “Police have not been lax in the case,“ said ACP Gurjit Singh.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 People have the right to protest, but demonstrators have no right to be in the middle of the road for their own safety and that of travelling public. If police did need to intervene, they should have ensured that women cops were called in to tackle the women protesters. Male cops have no business manhandling anyone, especially women. The callous police action was a blow to demonstrators seeking speedy action in a hit-and-run case.
 
