New Delhi: There was good news for   in the 2017 ranking of top universities and colleges under the National Institutional Ranking Framework released by the union ministry for human resource development on Monday. While   was ranked second among universities,   was in the eighth spot and   in 12th. IIT Delhi was fourth among engineering institutions, even as Delhi Jamia Hamdard topped the pharmacy category. Besides, six DU colleges figured in the top 10 among the best 100 colleges of India. 

 Overall, among the institutions of higher education ranked, IIT Delhi was placed fifth, JNU sixth and DU, 15th.
 
 DU colleges Miranda House, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma, Lady Shri Ram, Dyal Singh and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya earned places among the top 10 ranked colleges. Some prominent colleges of the university, such as St Stephen’s and Hindu, were missing from the list. Many of them said they had been focusing on their commitments to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( ), which was carrying out its appraisal process around the same time, and missed out on the rankings. The colleges said they would participate in NIRF next year. In addition to the six in the top 10, there were five other DU colleges among the 100 best. These were Keshav Mahavidyalya (15), Acharya Narendra Dev (20), Ramanujan (33) and Shaheed Bhagat Singh-Evening (34) and SGND Khalsa (44). In the parallel list of the top 100 universities were Delhi Technological University, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Indian Agricultural Research Institute and Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University.
 
 Reacting to the ranking, M Jagadesh Kumar, vice-chancellor of JNU, which earlier had been given the best central university award by President Pranab Mukherjee, said, “JNU stands tall again with its focus on academic excellence.”
 
 Similarly pleased with Miranda House being deemed the best among Delhi University colleges, its principal Pratibha Jolly, said that with many institutions across India doing great work, it was difficult to compare them, but “Miranda House is in a niche of its own and the ranking has brought the college much joy”. She said the NIRF parameters were fairly quantitative, though she thought benchmarks like cut-off marks did not fully measure merit. 
 
 At the unheralded Dyal Singh College, principal Inderjit Singh Bakshi said being ranked in the top 10 was “an opportunity to do better and become more competitive”. Bakshi added that unlike NAAC which came every five years, NIRF was an annual feature and “Dyal Singh would have to set its target annually to raise the bar for academic excellence”.
 
 However, with the issue of autonomy for colleges being hotly debated in DU, there was alarm among some teachers that the NIRF rankings could pave the way for granting autonomous status to certain colleges. Said Abha D Habib, teacher at Miranda House and activist for the Democratic Teachers’ Front, which is opposed to autonomy: “Even as we wish to celebrate this achievement of being listed as the topmost college in Delhi University, we are filled with apprehensions that this may come with a push for autonomous status.” She said that Miranda House’s top ranking could only have been achieved because it has always been a part of DU and not an autonomous institution.
 
