CHENNAI: The unified EPSOPS group of the   convened a `general council' meet on Tuesday and ousted jailed leader   from the post of general secretary. The party , they said, would now be steered by a committee led by O Panneerselvam as coordinator and   as the joint coordinator.

 The new posts were created by amending the AIADMK bylaws that constitute the basic structure of the four-decade-old party founded by M G Ramachandran.
 
 The council also scrapped the post of AIADMK general secretary , claiming none could take the place of MGR or J  , who continue to “occupy the post in spirit.“ The council declared all actions of   as general secretary as null and void, thus ratifying a recent decision of the party to oust T T V Dhinakaran from the post of deputy general secretary . There is no mention, however, on their expulsion from the primary membership of the party .
 
 A day after clearing legal hurdles, the merged EPS-OPS group showcased its strength by getting 2,130 members of its general council, the party's high-level body , to pass 12 resolutions. With police providing tight security , the gen eral council met in a marriage hall in Vanagaram on the outskirts of Chennai. The council unanimously decided to revoke the appointment of V K Sasikala, and nullify her actions between December 30, 2016 and February 15, 2017, including appointments and expulsions in the party , said a resolution read out by Rajya Sabha member and Thanjavur south district secretary R Vaithilingam. It was seconded by the mem bers and there was no dis senting voice in the packed hall. The council noted that Sasikala was appointed as general secretary as an interim arrangement following the “shocking and sad demise“ of J Jayalalithaa.
 
 It contended that the appointment of Dhinakaran did not adhere to the party bylaws, and cancelled a recent series of appointments and expulsions by Dhinakaran.
 
 “They have brought disrepute to the glory of Puratchi Thalaivi Amma and intend to ruin the party ,“ the resolution said. On February 15, Sasikala re-inducted her nephews Dhinakaran and Dr Venkatesh into AIADMK and appointed the former as her deputy hours before she left for the Bengaluru prison. The unified factions of EPS and OPS recently negated his appointment through a resolution.
 
 The hall, packed with members brought in by bus from across the state, was out of bounds for journalists.
 
 “Our Amma did not have heirs. We are her heirs and she left the party and government to us,“ chief minister Palaniswami said to loud cheers.Against the backdrop of threats from Dhinakaran to topple his government, Palaniswami said, “Where was he during the last decade? He was expelled by Amma. There can be no traitors like them in the party. Amma bore the burden of the troubles caused by these people and ably led the party and government. Not just one Dhinakaran, even if thousands emerge, the government and party cannot be destablised. They cannot lay a finger on party workers and the workers will not leave [us].“
 
 He accused DMK leader M K Stalin of trying to destablise the government. “That will remain just a dream for our rivals,“ he said. The resolution will be forwarded to the election commission soon in a move to retrieve the symbol and name with civic polls likely to be notified soon.
 
 Visibly relieved with the developments, deputy CM Panneerselvam lauded the unity of party functionaries.“Your unity shows that no one can beat us,“ he said, exhorting members to protect the principles of Jayalalithaa and safeguard the party's interest. The general council empowered Panneerselvam and Palaniswami to deal with the poll panel and courts, handle bank accounts and transactions, authorise party candidates to contest elections and effect changes in party bylaws.
 
