Nagpur seems to be moving on the right track. On one hand the efforts are being made to make it a smart city with right kind of vision and outlook, on the other hand, serious endeavours are being made to turn it into a cultural mecca where art forms of all kinds can blossom. As a step in this direction, a   is being organised in the city at South Central Zone Cultural Centre where some of the best young sculptors will create some stunning tales in the city…

 
 
 The 20-day sculpture camp will be organised in the city from Jan 12, shares the director of SCZCC,  . He goes on to add, “For this camp, curated by Padma awardee artist  , we received more than 350 applications and finally 30 best sculptors were selected. Most of these sculptors are young with an elevated sense of creativity. And these artists will showcase their craft live from 10am to 8pm at   premises.”
 
 
 
 This particular effort aims to give Nagpur the tag of culture destination of India, says Dr Piush Kumar and adds, “This camp which is being organised in the city after a gap of 28-years, will give Nagpur the right kind of push. I also want young artists of Nagpur to get inspired to create original pieces of art. It is sad that we don’t have a single young national-level sculptor in Nagpur today. The painters and artists who have great potential move out of the city because they are not nurtured in Nagpur.”
 
 
 The sculptors can choose the stones of their choice to maximise their creativity. SCZCC director shares: “We have brought truckloads of stones at the centre – right from marble to Udaipur green, Jaisalmer yellow and Udaipur pink. Cranes will also be made available to the artists to lift and turn the stones. There will be large quantities of water available along with hi-tech tools, although the sculptors will also bring their own tools. Some of the rough stone slabs are 15-ft high and there are all kinds of options for the sculptors to choose from.”
 
 
 “All the sculptures created by the artists at the camp, will be showcased in the city. These artefacts will be precious gifts to the city and displayed at the serene surroundings of SCZCC. We want to give people of Nagpur a beautiful place where they can spend a couple of hours amidst art and beauty,” says Dr Kumar.
 
 
 
