THANE: Even as residents have been sweating it out as the temperatures continue to rise in the city, it is also taking a toll on the vegetable production. Shortage of supply, depleting ground water levels has affected the production, resulting in rise in prices.

 Compared to the last two weeks, the prices have increased by approximately Rs 20 for most vegetables. The prices of vegetables like cauliflower, lady finger, cabbage, capsicum, brinjal and carrot have increased by 40% to 50%. Even french beans and peas, which a fortnight ago were priced at Rs 60 a kg, is now available at double the cost. 
 
 According to   of Kalyan’s Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), “The supply of vegetables has been badly hit due to soaring temperatures and excessive heat. In the interiors of the state, where majority of the vegetables are grown, they are suffering from acute water shortage. Hence, tanker water is being used in a lot of these areas. As the shelf life of most of these vegetables is less they require to be consumed quickly and timely. The dip in supply and rise in demand has further led to an escalation of prices.”
 
 Generally, residents are aware that vegetable prices will be higher during summer, but this month the rates have sky rocketed. In addition, vendors in the lake city attribute the price rise to shortage of man-power as most labourers go to their native place for summer break.
 
 “It is bad enough for us that supply of vegetables is low, but there has also been a decrease in manpower which is required for transporting and delivering the produce. This has affected the prices,” said a vegetable vendor from Thane’s  .
 
 Even though residents are purchasing their daily vegetables, many are giving french beans and peas a skip due to the exorbitant cost. In fact, some local vendors have stopped selling them as their demand has decreased are a rise in rate. “These vegetables are now mostly preferred by caterers and hoteliers rather than daily consumers. The common man is shying away from these commodities,” said  , another vendor.
 
 Even in the wholesale  , the price rise has largely affected consumers and business, with almost all vegetables being sold only at Rs20 lesser than the retail price. Traders believe that this jump in prices will be constant at least throughout the month. 
 
 
