INDORE: Two Ayurveda and naturopathy centres each in Indore and the capital city Bhopal will be opened soon to help in treatment of patients suffering from chronic and lifestyle disorders.

 The centres activities will be divided into two parts-naturopathy, which will include treatments like massage therapy, steam bath, mud bath among others and Ayurveda, which includes panchkarma treatments like abhyang, swedan, shirodhar, netra tarpana among others.
 
 Minister of state for Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy Unani, Siddha and   (independent charge) Shripad Yesso Naik on Saturday announced to open the Ayurveda and naturopathy centres in Indore and Bhopal.
 
 “Allopathic medicines have side-effects and thus, the people are shifting towards Ayurveda, homeopathy, naturopathy and unani medicines across the world. The Central government signs agreements with many American, African and European countries for expansion of naturopathy,” said Naik.
 
 Naik was addressing a gathering during the inaugural ceremony of a four-day-long comprehensive health fair on Ayurveda, Yoga, naturopathy, unani, siddha, sowa-rigpa & homeopathy called ‘Arogya’ at Lalbagh palace.
 
  He also mentioned to develop the   in   and Bhopal as a research centre.
 
  “The business of exporting ayurvedic medicinal plants, seeds and other raw materials to other countries is of around Rs 10,000 crore” said Dr DC Katoch, adviser in ministry of AYUSH.
 
 He said that there is immense opportunity in the sector not only in terms of business but also in health facilities.
 
 “The state government has decided to promote researches in the field of Ayurveda. It has sanctioned a budget of Rs 10.6 crore for development of Ayurveda and homeopathy” said AYUSH department principal secretary Shikha Dubey.
 
 MP school education minister   said that the state government has decided to impart a special three months training to the Ayurveda and homeopathy practitioners serving at primary health centres in the rural areas to further allow them to prescribe allopathic medicines as it will help in providing free treatment to the poor patients.
 
