MUMBAI: A 20-year-old pervert who masturbated in front of two young women commuters inside the D-6 coach of   on June 29 was arrested by railway police from Carnac Bunder on Wednesday. 

 One of the two women had filmed the accused's act and tweeted to the railway ministry soon after the incident, but had got no response. On July 11, she wrote a blog about it and the same day, her tweet was tagged by another Twitter user to the railway ministry, railway minister Suresh Prabhu and the divisional railway manager (DRM), Mumbai, who asked the Railway Protection Force to take action.
 
  assistant commissioner   said, "We arrested Ashok   based on the description provided by the women commuters within six hours of the news going viral on social media on Wednesday." TOI was the only paper that reported the incident. Police said Pradhan works as a mason and had confessed to the act. Following an identification parade, he will be produced before the metropolitan magistrate. Originally from Bhubaneswar, Pradhan has been booked under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty) of IPC.
 
 Chavan said, "The constable who had not cooperated with the victims has been identified. He will be suspended and a departmental inquiry conducted." 
 
  The women had got off the train, found a cop and showed him the video. But he seemed unaffected and then agreed to accompany them to the platform where their train had pulled in, "but without any... urgency." In her blog, the victim said when the accused saw them, he fled but the cop did not follow him and instead told them: "That guy must also have a reservation. Go find a place to sit elsewhere." 
 
 Police offered to go to the victim's residence to register the FIR, but since she was not in Mumbai, they asked her to email the complaint, which was taken as an FIR. The woman told TOI she could not understand why authorities had not acted quickly. "For 10 days, I stayed quiet as I wanted to let go of the memory. Then I read about a woman being flashed at in a train. I had evidence of the act. I decided to not stay quiet anymore," she said.
 
