Thane:   in the last two days have brought the much needed respite from the humid climate, going by the   predictions; these regions are expected to receive heavy rains and strong winds for the next five days, which is till Tuesday.

 Till Wednesday July had received only 47mm of rainfall, however, Thane district recorded a total   of 247mm on Friday itself, causing a string of tree falls and water logging situations.
 
 The The India Meteorological Department (IMD), on Friday, sent out a bulletin to the disaster management cells across central Maharashtra and the Konkan belt, advising them to stay alert as pockets including Thane, Palghar, Raighad, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Sindudurgh, Dhule, Nandurbar, Nasik, Jalgaon, Kolhapur are expected to witness heavy rainfall right up till Tuesday.
 
 “The low atmospheric pressure over south Madhya Pradesh has intensified and created an offshore trough across the coastal region from Gujarat, through the Konkan belt, right up to Goa. This is a semi prominent feature of the monsoon and had weakened over the past week, which resulted in lesser rainfall then. Now that this trough has intensified, these regions are bound to see some heavy rainfall and strong winds,” said  , chief meteorologist at skymetweather.com.
 
 The IMD has also sent out a special warning to the fishing community in these regions, urging them to stay away from the rough waters as the seas will witness gusts and squalls running up to 60kmph as well as rough south westerly winds and the resulting high waves.
 
 While these weathermen urge denizens to stay alert, especially during high hides, environmentalists and adventure enthusiasts here are already awaiting these delayed heavy showers.
 
 Scanty rainfall have also disappointed the trekkers and adventure sports enthusiasts in the city as this is the month when all the adventure sport activities take place. 
 
 “Usually, July is the best time to take up activities like trekking and river rafting, but this time there were hardly any rains this month. The skies were sunny most of last week. The past two days have been a little better and cooler, but we are waiting for the heavy showers so we can experience monsoon adventure sports at its best,” said Abhay Kunj (29), a Vasant Vihar resident.
 
 “July is the month when the city usually gets flooded, however, this year it has hardly rained. It’s been raining for the last two days, but this should continue, else we will once again face water cuts in summers,” said Meeta Tripathi from Panchpakhadi.
 
