KANPUR: It will be a ride for pride when two battered and bruised teams   and   play their   match at Green Park stadium on Wednesday. With both Gujarat and Delhi out of the reckoning for a Playoff berth, it can at best be counted as a struggle to avoid the wooden spoon. Gujarat have eight points from 12 games, and Delhi also have the same number of points from 11 matches. While Gujarat play two more matches, while Delhi have three more to go.

 As the fourth placed side,   has 15 points, both Gujarat and Delhi have no chance of overtaking them. Mumbai Indians (18), while Kolkata Knight Riders and Rising Pune Supergiant with 16 points each top the table.
 
 Both Gujarat and Delhi have been hit hard by injuries and withdrawals. The Gujarat side has been unlucky with injuries. Their main allrounder Dwayne Bravo has been a non-starter with hamstring injury, while they lost their 'hat-trick' man Andrew Tye with a dislocated shoulder mid-way in the competition. And, finally, injuries to Brendon McCullum and Nathu Singh turned them into a limping horse in the tournament.
 
 This has robbed skipper   with requisite options. Also with Raina and other senior players  , Aaron Finch and Dwayne Smith not in the best of form, Gujarat batting has looked brittle.
 
 So has been the bowling. None of their bowlers except Basil Thampi has looked effective on flat tailor-made pitches for batsmen. That way, the injury to Tye dealt a crucial blow to the side.
 
 The only bright spot has been the way young Ishan Kishan and experienced Di nesh Karthik have shaped up. Both have tried to plug the gaps in batting, and have provided some cheer to the side.
 
 Delhi too has been hit hard by the injury to Zaheer Khan. Till he went out with a hamstring strain, the skip per was the leading force of the Delhi bowling ­ providing them experience and edge with the new ball.
 
 Now, as their most effective new ball bowler Kagiso Rabada, along with Chris Morris and Angelo Matthews return back home to train with their respective national teams prior to the Champions Trophy, the composition of the side looks pretty disturbed.
 
