MUMBAI: Indian cricket is a story of contrasts at the moment. While the national team has been recording one memorable win after another at home, the official body that runs the sport in the country, the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ), is enduring a nightmare time and looks in complete disarray.

 It is under these circumstances that India's most successful leader in the cricketing arena, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, will be stepping out as captain one last time when India 'A' take on England in a warm-up one-day fixture at the Brabourne Stadium on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 And, as has been the hallmark of Dhoni's nearly decade-long reign as the skipper of the ODI and T20 sides, on Monday evening there was nothing to suggest that an era in Indian cricket was coming to an end when he led his side out for practice.
 
 The customary game of football over in about 20 minutes, it was time to hit the nets. Opener  , who is on a comeback mission, was first to take guard followed by the others.
 
 Dhoni, meanwhile, kept close watch on proceedings and was always on hand to offer advice to bowlers, many of who could be seen putting in that extra effort on a breezy evening under lights. He waited for about an hour-and-a half before taking guard and went on to spend about 30 minutes, batting against spinners first and then taking on the pace bowlers.
 
 The 35-year-old last donned India colours against New Zealand in a one-day international on October 29 in Visakhapatnam, when the hosts beat their opponents by 190 runs with Dhoni contributing 41 runs batting at No. 4. And, given the way he wielded the willow on Monday, there was little to suggest that he has been absent from international duty for almost two-and-a-half months. Dhoni started off watchfully against the spinners and it was not too long before he launched into his trademark long-range hits.
 
 While the skipper enjoyed what could be termed a regular hit in the nets, one man stood out for the effort he put in throughout the evening.  , who returns to the one-day fold after a little over three years looked a man with serious drive. The left-hander spent close to an hour in the nets polishing his skills and by the looks of it the 35-year-old, who has also been selected for the three ODIs starting January 15, is in no mood to let this opportunity go waste. Veteran pace bowler Ashish Nehra, another man to have received a surprise call-up for the India 'A' squad, too could be seen bending his back.
 
