KOCHI: At a time when the state government is planning to undertake construction of the proposed flyover at Vyttila, the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) said that they have finalised the designs for construction of metro viaduct across the busy junction. 

 The metro agency said there would be sufficient space to construct the flyover below the viaduct of the metro rail. "Viaduct designs are prepared maintaining sufficient height from the ground. We know our route, and where it will cross the highway at Vyttila," said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 According to the PWD, the Vyttila flyover would come up along the highway. A senior PWD official said the department has been asked to review the existing design. "In case there is a need for a new design we will have to get technical approval," he said. The official also said the existing designs were prepared in consultation with Kochi Metro authorities. The metro viaduct will come up at a height of 18m from the ground, and the flyover will be constructed at a height of 8 m from the ground.
 
 "We will hold further consultations with them if the construction of flyover affects metro work," he added. The PWD also said the Vytilla flyover would be built in such a way that there would be provisions for future development.
 
 However, the National Highway   leader Hashim Chenampilly said that the state government's decision to take over construction of the flyovers at Vyttila and Kundanoor would only help to cover up wrong doings of   (NHAI). "Infrastructure development along the 16 km between Edappally and Aroor is the responsibility of NHAI. They are already collecting toll in this stretch. The state government should have considered this aspect," he said. The NHAI is also bound to ensure proper maintenance of the road, construction of service roads, effective lighting and other aspects.
 
 State government had informed the Kerala high court that it would be constructing the flyovers at Vytilla and Kundannur as the NHAI insisted on collecting toll if they undertook the projects. A writ petition by   sought a directive to start the construction of the proposed six-lane Vyttila flyover in consultation with KMRL and  .
 
