JAIPUR: To achieve the target of the ambitious ‘Housing For All’ scheme, the state government has decided to provide major relaxations to developers in the state.

 The government will relax the conversion of land policy for developers constructing houses for economic weaker section (EWS) and lower income group ( ) under the Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana.
 
 The urban development and   ( UDH) department had recently sent a proposal to the   minister   and received approval for the same.
 
 The department will soon issue a notification for the same.
 
 “Under the scheme, permission will be granted to developers for constructing houses for EWS and LIG categories without land conversion. However, it will not be allowed in ecological zone and green belt areas. If the land to be used is in educational, institutional or commercial areas of the master plan, permission to develop the project will be granted without changing the master plan,” said a senior UDH official source.
 
 According to the official, the state government has to construct 10 lakh houses for EWS and LIG categories by 2019. The Centre has shown its disappointment over the slow pace of construction of houses under the project. This is the reason why the state government has provided relaxations to developers.
 
 Recently, the UDH department also announced amendments to various provisions in the Chief Minister Jan Awas Yojana-2015 scheme.
 
 As per the revisions, private parties developing residential projects in their own land will have to reserve 10% of the saleable area in proposed colonies and 7.5% floor area ratio in apartments for EWS and LIG categories.
 
 However, if the plotted development is less than 2 hectares and less than 5,000 sq m (flat development), the developer has the option of paying charges.
 
 “For plotted development, developers can deposit 10% cost of the saleable area land. This cost will be levied as per the reserve price or district lease committee ( ) rates. Similarly, the department will charge Rs 100 per sq ft for 7.5% of the floor area ratio (FAR) for flat development,” said an official. Sources said that the state government feels that revisions would benefit developers in a big way.
 
