As the city breaks into celebrations around its new  , a matter of honour for every Amdavadi, did you know that we pipped cities like Delhi and Mumbai -- whose monuments still stand as a hallmark of India’s colonial legacy despite modernization. These cities too had lobbied hard to get nominated as Indian contenders for the World Heritage City status. But they lost out in the race for the tag after the culture ministry, in 2016, picked the 600-year-old Ahmedabad, which had a clear edge over the other two cities because the administration consistently worked towards the conservation of its living heritage through its   for over 20 years.

 The Mumbai and Delhi dossiers too were impressive but none as convincing as Ahmedabad’s for bagging the status, said sources. While Mumbai’s dossier mentioned the 19th century neo-Gothic structures and 20th century buildings around Marine drive, Delhi’s had areas like Shahjahanabad, which echoes the resplendent Mughal architecture and Lutyen’s Bungalow Zone (part of the new capital). Delhi is home to three World Heritage Sites -- Humayun’s Tomb, Red Fort and Qutub Minar. Sources said that the Centre decided to pull out the national Capital because if granted a heritage city status, it would hinder urban infrastructure expansion here.
 
 Mumbai, too, lost its chances after the dossier made no mention of Victoria Terminus, sources added. Ahmedabad boasts of 35 ASI protected structures, hundreds of poles, the residential nooks that capture the essence of community living, and numerous sites associated with Mahatma Gandhi, the driving force behind the Indian independence movement, who made Ahmedabad his home from 1915 to 1930. Another heritage aspect that is quintessentially Ahmedabad is also its several ‘pur’ neighbourhoods forming the entire fortified city.
 
  
  
 
 These various purs have their own urban structure that is self-sufficient for the communities, where each pol once again is a self- sufficient unit. “The city is applauded for the peaceful co-existence of dominant Hindu, Islamic and Jain communities and architecture in the Walled City area,” said Anupa Mehta, writer and art curator. “Amdavad is like four cities in one due to its diverse architecture,” said Mehta. In 1984, the first study for conserving heritage structures was carried out. A heritage cell was also set up by the AMC.
 
 “What makes Ahmedabad stand out is its architecture. The gorgeous Sarkhej Roza and the Sidi Sayyed ni Jaali are combinations of Hindu and Muslim principles of architecture,” said Bhavna Ramrakhiani, heritage activist. ‘Two beautiful girls’ It took us six long years to compile the dossier that finally clinched the deal. This was a dossier that was earlier sent back because it lacked vital details. Chairman of Heritage Conservation Committee PK Ghosh recalls how Dr Adel Farhangi Shabestari of the Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization, who had come for an inspection, had described his feelings.
 
 “He had said, ‘I feel like a 17-year-old with two beautiful girls on both my sides. On one side, I have beautiful wood-carved buildings and on the other, I have beautiful stone-carved mosques’,” said Ghosh. Urban planner and architect AGK Menon, who had prepared the dossier for Delhi, was quoted as saying Ahmedabad’s honour was a “lesson” for civic bodies around the country to look at heritage as an asset as Ahmedabad did, and “preserve, conserve and restore” heritage sites for posterity. Talking to Mirror from Canada, heritage expert Raheel Patel said, “Ahmedabad was taken over by the Mughals, the Marathas and the British gradually. But the region was built and maintained exclusively by the local trading population, resisting every attempt by the foreign rulers to intrude into its sociological framework. Families residing in the pols are the key to its living heritage as they also practice heritage every day.”
 
 THE CHANGES MADE IN THE FINAL DOSSIER
 
 The dossier, which had first been sent around one-and-a half years ago to  , by a team led by Professor Ravindra Vasavada was returned with some comments and shortcomings. Listing these out, Ghosh said that there about eight major points they had replied on that got the city the tag.
 
 QUERY: Contact between two civilisations
 REPLY: New architecture was continuously built by multiple civilizations who came in contact with each other in the city.
 
 QUERY: Habitation layout pattern?
 REPLY: The city is compact with diff erent areas and agglomerations having their own compact divisions and facilities and neighbourhoods.
 
 QUERY: Existence of communities side-by-side
 REPLY: In Europe, it is noticed that Muslims, Jews and Christians co-existed together for years. However, these are all religions of the Book and there are similarities between them. However, in Ahmedabad, Hindus, Jains and Muslims have lived together for years even though they have diff erent cultures and practices.
 
 QUERY: No Exhaustive Documentation
 REPLY: Documentation is underway and the process will continue till every structure is documented and taken note of.
 
 QUERY: Heritage Department need to be strengthened
 REPLY: There needs to be more knowledge-based cadre with commitment towards preservation and the department will be strengthened by hiring such people.
 
 QUERY: Extending Buff er Zone to new city
 REPLY: The Buff er Zone for protection of monuments cannot be extended to the new city as these constructions have already come up a long time ago. Also, the Wall of the Old city is visible from the river and it is already under renovation, so it is not required.
 
 QUERY: Loss of Integrity of heritage structures
 REPLY: Have set up buff er zones around the heritage sites and will protect them from damage.
 
