KOLKATA: An   will now be mandatory for all students in Kolkata.   (KMC) has sent a   asking the authorities to submit   details of all students who have it, and names of those who don’t have one yet. The civic body, said sources, will set up kiosks on school campuses to initiate   for students without one.

 The decision comes within months of an MHRD proposal to create digital lockers for all students. These digital lockers will allow them to have easy access to necessary academic documents, including results, online from anywhere in the country. CBSE has initiated the process by launching ‘Parinam Manjusha’. This is a project in which candidates will be able to access various documents — migration certificates, marksheets, results, pass certificates — on smartphones. The section in which documents are stored will contain a QR code that the students will need to verify through a mobile-based scanning app that can be downloaded from a portal set up by the board.
 
 CBSE will verify details after each student registers on the ‘Parinam Manjusha’ portal. Prospective employers can also access the documents of an applicant.
 
 “It is likely for the digital locker programme to be linked with Aadhaar. Moreover, CBSE has made it mandatory to mention the Aadhaar numner on registration forms for students studying in classes IX, X, XI and XII,” a source said.
 
 “We went to attend a meeting at KMC two weeks ago,” said Mukta Nain, principal of Birla High School for Boys. “The officials gave us copies of the Aadhaar registration form. We, in turn, had distributed the forms among students who don’t yet have an Aadhaar. In our school, only 700 of 2,800 students don’t have Aadhaar. KMC will set up a kiosk in June and do the needful.”
 
 KMC has said students up to five years old can be exempted from Aadhaar. “We have thus exempted studen-ts of nursery and KG from the process,” Nain said.
 
 The process of Aadhaar registration for students has also started at Loreto House, affiliated to CISCE. 
 
 Calcutta Boys’ School and Delhi Public School Ruby Park have also sought information from guardians regarding Aadhaar details. 
 
 A central directive, linking Aadhaar to midday meals served in schools, triggered the move. “We realised that since it will be the most important, and probably the only ID card that will be considered by the Centre in the near future, it is best to ensure all schoolkids have one,” said a KMC source.
 
 
