PANAJI: Elections for the post of mayor and deputy mayor of the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) will be held on March 15, according to the directorate of  .

 While the Atanasio Monserrate-backed panel is keen to retain control over the capital’s civic body, the Bharatiya Janta Party-backed panel also has its eyes trained on the mayoral race.
 
 Sources are of the opinion that the results of the state assembly elections, scheduled to be declared on March 11, would play a key role in shaping the choices made by the two CCP panels. All eyes are expected to be on the candidate who emerges victorious in the  .
 
 Sitting   MLA from Panaji, Sidharth Kunkalienkar is vying for a second term, but Monserrate has also put up a strong challenge in the state assembly elections.
 
 Only elected councilors are permitted to elect the mayor and deputy mayor. Currently, the BJP-backed panel has 13 councilors against the 17 councilors who claim allegiance to Monserrate.
 
 Councilors who are part of the Babush camp, which has a majority in the CCP council, are vary of jumping ship out of fear that Monserrate may emerge as the victor in Panaji.
 
 In March 2012, Monserrate’s long time ally, Tony Rodrigues parted ways with the Babush-panel to lend support to the BJP-backed panel. Current councilor Carolina Po had also joined Rodrigues in the move to the BJP-backed panel.
 
 “Babush has to decide whether he wants me to continue. He has to say if I can contest,” current mayor Surendra Furtado said.
 
 Elections for the mayor’s post were held on March 15 last year and Furtado’s term as the mayor comes to a close this March. Furtado continues to remain on the CCP council and is keen to retain the post of mayor.
 
 A councilor on the BJP-backed panel said that the saffron party had yet to chalk out its strategy for the corporation elections and added that the party’s leadership would choose to wait till the state assembly election results were declared to take a final call in the matter.
 
