Nagpur: Extending a hand of support to motherhood, project ‘Vatsalyam’ came as a ray of hope for 12 couples who struggled to plan a family because of high medical costs that come along with pregnancy.

 Jangoraitad Adivasi Vikas Sanstha (JAVS) celebrated the completion of Vatsalyam Phase I ‘Support to motherhood’, a project that supports underprivileged   women by covering the entire medical expense of pregnancy including three months of post-partum, on Sunday at Ahilya Devi Mandir. The last set of medicines was distributed in the programme to the beneficiaries of phase I.
 
 The programme was inaugurated by mayor Nanda Jichkar, founder Prabodh Vekhande, Arvind Bisen and Dr Smita Chaturvedi.
 
 The project strives to make sure that pregnant women deliver their babies in government-run hospitals like Daga, Mayo, and IGGMCH and with proper care and medication. It provides the beneficiaries with generic medicines from the Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana.
 
 The organization has borne the medical cost (Rs25,000 per woman) of 12 such women who could not afford to bear the cost of medication and delivery, right from the required medical tests, medicines and supplements that a pregnant woman needs for the healthy growth of the foetus until post-natal care. The event marked the completion of Phase I and the beginning of Phase II, which will have 10-12 more couples joining the project.
 
 Manisha Nilare, 23, a beneficiary of the project said, “Vatsalyam covered the cost of the club feet operation that my baby had to undergo within a month of his birth. They have also committed to take care of the cost of treatment till he is eight years. We are grateful for this provision, we couldn’t have been able to do this on our own.”
 
 “It is a doctor’s dream to help the underprivileged. I grabbed the opportunity when I realized that these women need help. The average weight of babies born in our country is 2.5kg, but all the 12 babies that have been born under the project weighed between 2.8 and 3.4kg, making them healthy. I take great pride in the successful completion of the first phase of Vatsalyam and am eager to start the phase II,” said Chaturvedi, who is a full time consultant physician of the project.
 
 In her address to the beneficiaries and invitees Jichkar said, “ India has people with a lot of resources, and they do not know what to do with it. JAVS has given a proper direction for channelizing these funds, and I am grateful to them for this initiative. I would also welcome such organizations to help us identify possible beneficiaries of various schemes that our government has come up. We should also look to identify the reason as to why many of them are not able to benefit from these schemes, so that we may improve in the area.”
 
 (Reporting by Mahima Meshramkar)
 
 
