Kolkata: Within hours of the fire at  , police on Thursday found “enough evidence” to arrest its co-owner Bhupender Singh Gujral and manager  . While police are verifying the licence of the hotel, fire minister   expressed his “shock” over the “gross negligence” on part of the hotel management.

 “The FIR should serve as a lesson for others. We want exemplary punishment of the accused,” said Chatterjee. According to him, the fire brigade officials found negligence on three counts — the outdated firefighting equipment, the blocked emergency exit route and the faulty AC duct. He, however, chose to evade the question on whether the fire department renewed the hotel’s fire license.
 
 “We could not believe that a hotel can use firefighting equipment that have long crossed their expiry. Almost all of them were defunct. Similarly, the emergency exit was blocked with wooden furniture and bundles of unused clothes. The AC duct was faulty, allowing smoke to creep across the hotel. The situation was identical to a hospital fire that killed several people a few years ago,” said Chatterjee.
 
 Any renewal of fire licence, sources said, should be preceeded by a mandatory fire department check. It is still not clear whether these were done at all.
 
 In his complaint, local fire station officer   stated that they found negligence on part of the management. “An initial probe has found that the fire-safety equipment failed to trigger an alert. Most importantly, the police found that the AC duct from the ground floor was not sealed, allowing the smoke from the fire to travel all the way up to the top floor. Police have sealed the building since we want to study if there was any evacuation system was in place in case of an emergency. We have asked for the building plan,” explained a senior officer.
 
 “Initially, layers of carbon have been found from rooms 406 and 416 where the deaths took place. We are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain some facts,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Police are now planning to question the kitchen staff, maintenance officials and electricians. 
 
 “The FSL report will help us seal the case. We are in touch with fire brigade, KMC and the disaster management group. It will help us in investigating this case,” said joint CP (headquarters) Supratim Sarkar.
 
