BENGALURU: In two weeks, you can access Wi-Fi in   poration (BMTC) Volvo buses. In the first phase of the project, 200 buses, heading to Whitefield,   and KIA, will have the facility. In addition to this, passengers will also get an on-board smartphone-based entertainment system through an app.

 The move, says BMTC, is aimed to provide some relief to passengers who spend hours on the road due to the city's crawling traffic.
 
 Bialappa M Biradar, divisional traffic officer (commercial), BMTC told TOI: “Passengers from Majestic to Electronics City or Whitefield spend at least an hour (oneway) in buses to cover the distance. Our aim is to help them with internet connectivity so that they can either work or indulge in some entertainment. We have instructed the fir m providing Wi-Fi facility to ensure a minimum bandwidth speed of 7.2 mbps. There will also be a facility for passengers to directly plug in their personal electronic devices, such as smartphones, tablets or laptops to access inter net without streaming,“ he added.
 
 On April 10, BMTC floated tenders to install Wi-Fi services and smartphone-based entertainment system in 150 more air-conditioned buses.“The pre-bid meeting for finalizing the firm for the second set of 150 buses will be held on May 2 and bids will be opened on May 12. We are not spending anything for the Wi-Fi project. The firms which are implementing the project will be allowed to advertise on LCDLED panels (video and audio) on the buses. Depending on the response, we will expand the   project to all 650 Volvo buses under the BMTC fleet,“ said Biradar.
 
 To get back customers
 
 Sources in the BMTC said the idea is also to c o m p e t e w i t h cab-based aggregators, who are already providing free Wi-Fi on select fleets. “We hope to bring back passengers to BMTC buses. Right now, we are losing them to app-based taxis on the routes to KIA, Electronics City, Whitefield, etc.,“ said a source.
 
 In 2010, BMTC provided Wi-Fi facility in   buses that ferry passengers to airport. The facility got extended to 60 buses in 2014. However, the project was dropped following the private firm backing out of the contract.
 
