NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old man who used to dupe people by reading their ATM pin was arrested on Friday from east Delhi's Shahdara. The man had stolen more than Rs 4 lakh from different people by carrying forward their transactions from ATM machines and withdrawing money from their account by using fake cards.

 DCP (Shahdara)   said that a team led by   Sunil Kumar Sharma apprehended Sandeep from an SBI ATM in Shahdara's   on Friday . The security guard, Pradeep, informed police about him.
 
 Police officials said that they had been receiving many complaints of people losing money from their account after they visited an ATM. One such complainant, Sanjay Jain, told police that on September 4, he went to the ATM at Anaj Mandi, Shahdara.
 
 “A man who was standing behind me told me that the money would be coming from the second machine. He then continued a transaction on the first machine and showed that he had used his card and took Rs 15,000 out of it and went.I went to the second machine and took Rs 10,000 out of it. Later on, I got a message from the bank that Rs 25,000 have been debited from my account,“ he said.
 
 Police found that similar cases have been reported in multiple areas in Trans Yamuna, where the victims were stopped during their transaction and were told to use a different machine. The police went through CCTV footage of the ATMs where the victims had withdrawn money and noticed that the accused was standing right behind them.
 
 The police shared the footage with security guards deployed at the ATMs. Many of them are enrolled in the `Prahari' scheme where they act as a force multiplier for police. One such guard noticed that the accu sed had arrived at the ATM and was standing inside.He alerted the cops who went there and apprehended him.
 
 During interrogation, Sandeep told police that he is a native of Moga in Punjab. He studied hotel management and is married and has two kids. He left his family and got into a relationship with a widow in Delhi, with whom he was living in Jwala Nagar.
 
 Police have recovered 12 ATM cards and a silver chain from the accused. They have also worked out three cases involving theft of Rs 4 lakh. Police suspect that the accused had duped almost 50 people.
 
