HYDERABAD: Nearly three weeks after the failed robbery bid at Muthoot Finance at Mylardevpally , Cyberabad police cracked the case by arresting four members of an inter-state gang. Two culprits were arrested from   and two from Osmanabad in Maharashtra on Friday.

 The gang's getaway vehicle Tavera, stolen from Valsad in Gujarat, and a polythene bag left behind in it helped police arrest Santosh Dasharath Veerkar and Shafiuddin Navaboddin Sayyad, both from Maharashtra,   from Bengal, and Mohammed Dastagir from  . However, their associates Shareef, Anna and Farooq were still on the run.
 
 At 10.10 am on July 4, Shareef and Khan met Muthoot Finance manager for mortgaging a ring for Rs. 20,000. Within minutes, two of their associates, Sayyad and Anna, armed with weapons entered the office and the four made a bid to loot the gold mortgage firm on lines of the heist at RC Puram some months ago.However, their plan went for a toss as the staff resisted, screamed for help and hit the burglar alarm. Stung by the response, the robbers fled from the scene threatening locals with firearms and knives.
 
 During the pursuit of the robbers, police found their Tavera vehicle abandoned at Happy Home apartment complex in Upparpally hours later after a tip-off. They got the vital clue about the gang's whereabouts from a polythene bag in the vehicle, which bore an address of a shop located at Veer Savarkar Chowk, Osmanabad.
 
 Police personnel, including the elite anti-terror Octopus, scoured the 710-flat Happy Homes apartment complex for the fugitives, but the culprits gave them the slip. Based on the two vital clues, police teams went to Osmanabad and Valsad and managed to gather details of the culprits. On Friday , Sayyad came to the city to meet Dastagir and the two were arrested by police at the latter's house at Chandrayangutta, police said.
 
 Based on the details provided by Sayyad, Veerkar and Khan were arrested in Osmanabad, they added.
 
 According to police, Shareef, Khan and Sayyad met at the Dhule sub-jail in 2008.Shareef and Khan were arrested in a robbery case, while Sayyad was imprisoned for his role in a fake currency case.
 
 “The accused hatched a plan to commit robberies after getting out of prison,“ Cyberabad joint commissioner of police Shahnawaz Qasim said at a media briefing here on Friday .
 
 After coming out of prison almost a year ago, Shareef and Khan stole a Tavera vehicle from Gujarat and kept it with Sayyad and Veerkar in Osmanabad.
 
 To execute their plan, Shareef, Khan, Sayyad, Anna, Farooq and Veerkar frequented Hyderabad to check different branches of Muthoot Finance.
 
 “As they were from different states, Dastagir was their local contact. He was also their driver,“ the joint CP said. “They selected the Muthoot branch at Mylardevpally as it had no security guard.Also, it was at a location from where it was easy for them to access the  ,“ Cyberabad DCP (Crimes) Janaki Sharmila said.
 
