His is a name that needs no introduction. And as we spent Sunday afternoon driving around town with  , it quickly became obvious that Kolkata is teeming with fans of the Chaiyya chaiyya singer. And though he refused to give an interview, he took us along on a shopping and sightseeing trip that gave us a chance to know the man behind that wonderful voice.CRUSHING ON   FOR 7 YEARS!

 The moment we welcomed the sin ger to Kolkata, he replied, “Kolkata means nothing else to me but Kaushiki Chakraborty.“
 
 On being asked why , he told us that he has been crushing on Kaushiki for the past seven years! “Her father is a maestro.While watching his videos online, I learnt about her and trust me, I was clean bowled right there! I've never met her in person. But singing such difficult classical songs with a simple innocent smile, who else can do that in the country but her? I was really heartbroken when I learnt that she's married. I think after  , she's the one whose talent and charm have left me awestruck, and how!“ he said with a smile.
 
 CITY OF JOY AND ITS HERITAGE LOOK
 
 As we moved towards Ram Mandir in Girish Park area from his hotel in EM Bypass, his eyes were fixed on the road and the buildings rushing past us. “You know what do I like about this city? I find it carefree. It doesn't want the glitz and glam of the modern world; it's happy being itself. Same old buildings, same heritage look...nostalgia everywhere you look,“ he said.
 
 `CAN I HAVE SOME JUNK FOOD PLEASE?'
 
 “Will you get me some junk food please?“ he pleaded with us like a little kid. And without even waiting for our reply , he continued, “I love street food! I wish I could go out and eat everything available on the roads. I want to have juice, chaat, phuchka and jhalmuri....“
 
 SELFIES AND  'S REQUEST TO  
 
 While telling us about how he got mobbed in the hotel gym, he said, “Selfies have become an epidemic! Even people who don't have a clue who I am, come and click selfies with me. Once a little girl approached me and said, `I don't know who you are, but I want to click a photo with you' and obviously , I couldn't say no.“ And speaking of anecdotes, he dropped another gem during the conversation. “Once Celine Dion called up  , requesting him to sing Chaiyya chaiyya in her personal auditorium. She thought he had sung that song! He just got hysterical and told his crew, `Koi Sukhi kobulao yaar!'“
 
 NETAJI KE SAATH NA INSAAFI HUYI THI
 
 He was discussing how Udi udi jaye did well in   and other parts of India, as it's a pure garba song, and how he loves  's music, when he spotted a Netaji installation.“Mujhe lagta hai hume azadi bahut pahele mil jaati agar Netaji ke saath na insaafi nahi hoti. What a man he was! He was the bravest warrior, I must say ,“ he said.
 
 `DADAGIRI' ON HOWRAH BRIDGE
 
 His manager and driver were in the middle of a debate about what to visit next, when, to our surprise, he exclaimed, “I want to go to the Howrah Bridge! Take me there!“ And, of course, no one could say no to him. He got off on the bridge and started striking poses for our lensman. Photoshoot over, he soaked in the view, and slowly boarded the car.Inside, he turned to us and said, “Thank you so much! You guys made my dream of visiting this place come true. Finally!“
 
 LAAKH KI CHUDIYAN AT VARDAAN MARKET
 
 He surprised us again by wishing a visit to Vardaan Market next. All of us started thinking about the logistics involved. After all, we could all imagine what could happen when Sukhwinder Singh walked into Vardaan Market on a Sunday afternoon! We warned him about the problems he could face, but he refused to budge from the decision. “ Arre bhai, I have to buy laakh ki chudiyan for my girlfriends! They have demanded it,“ he said with a wide smile.
 
 SELFIE PLEASE
 
 The moment Sukhwinder entered the market, he was mobbed by fans. And as we entered a jewellery store, the fans fol lowed. Inside, he could hardly spare the time to choose chudiyan between selfies! “I'm a fan-made per son. They mean everything to me. I can't say no to them,“ he said, while posing for one selfie after another.
 
 
