PUNE: The   ( ) has asked its drivers to look in the   frequently in order to prevent accidents.

 Speaking to TOI, officials of the transport body said that the major problem faced by drivers was rash and unruly driving by other motorists resulting in minor or major road accidents.
 
 “Very few motorists follow traffic rules in Pune so bus drivers have a hard time. The main problem lies with those who ride two-wheelers. They have a habit of overtaking from the wrong side (left of the vehicle). This leads to many accidents. Since the buses are large, drivers cannot see the motorists if they are overtaking from the wrong side. Over half the accidents that involve buses are a result of the same,” said a PMPML official.
 
 “Drivers have to stay alert so they have been told to constantly look in the rear view mirrors. Generally, drivers ignore rear view mirrors. If there are PMPML buses that don’t have these mirrors on both the sides of the bus and in front of the driver’s seat, they will be installed,” the official pointed out.
 
 Officials in the PMPML added that apart from instructions given to drivers, they have plans to run campaigns in collaboration with the Pune traffic police.
 
 “Bus conductors have also been told to be vigilant, move along the bus during trips, and alert drivers in case they spot a rash driver or someone trying to overtake from the wrong side. Recently, the traffic police carried out an awareness campaign in connection with many traffic issues. The PMPML plans to coordinate with the police and other agencies to hold such campaigns frequently,” another official added.
 
 A bus driver, who requested anonymity, said that looking in the rear view mirrors all the time was also risky. “The focus shifts and disturbs the concentration. Other motorists shouldn’t try to overtake from the wrong side of a heavy vehicle,” he explained.
 
 Senior officials of the transport body had earlier stated that drivers of buses managed by private contractors were a problem. “The contractors don’t pay them well and they leave in every two to three months. Then, novices from other towns and cities, who have little idea about driving a heavy vehicle or Pune’s traffic scene, take their place. Many a times, this leads to mishaps and bus breakdowns but we are trying to tighten their operations,” Anant Waghmare, general manager (operations), had told TOI earlier.
 
