HYDERABAD: A class 10   who made it to the   of the seven most   should have found the road ahead easy . But seven years after 44-year-old   hogged head lines for his  , a   that was a boon for hundreds of hand loom weavers, he is struggling to raise money through crowdfunding.

 It was the trauma of his mother, Chinthakindi Laxmi, who suffered unbearable pain in her shoulders and hands working long hours on the old ASU machine, that acted as the trigger for Mallesham to build his machine in 2000. All the members of the Padmashali community , which has traditionally been involved in the unorganised handloom sector in Telangana, faced the same troubles.
 
 The traditional machine uses an angular structure with multiple spindles. Still being used by over 2,000 weaver families in Pochampally , Nalgonda, the machine requires women to spend at least seven hours to loop a 7-km-long thread over 9,000 times through the spindles. All this for just one Pochampally saree! The Laxmi ASU machine, which costs Rs 25,000, automates this process, reducing the process time to only one-and-half or two hours. The machine uses about one unit of electricity to process thread sufficient for two sarees.
 
 “For 35 years, I processed threads manually to produce 3,360 sarees at the rate of eight sarees a month. But my son came up with his invention in 2000 and relieved me of my troubles,“ 65-year-old Laxmi told TOI at their family-owned workshop, Shankar Engineering Works in the sleepy Aler town in Yadadri district.
 
 The invention has come to the help of many such weavers.Ramya Samala, a city-based weaver who bought the machine, said, “We worship him as our god now. For 17 years, I had to manually process the thread on the old ASU machine.“ Her family now manages to process enough thread to weave three Pochampally sarees a day . However, Mallesham has a bigger goal and wants to make his machine available for even the poor weaver families who can't afford to buy it. “I managed to liberate over 850 women in our Padmashali community , including my mother Laxmi, from shoulder pain and the drudgery of processing silk thread manually on the old ASU machines. Now I want others to benefit too and have taken to crowd-funding to help at least 20 weaver families,“ said Mallesham. However, despite the inventor being lauded in several forums for his contribution -he gave a TedX talk in September 2016 in the city to a crowd of businessmen, was given the ` Amazing Indian' award by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and was also hosted as a state guest of President Pranab Mukherjee -Mallesham has not been able to get government help.
 
 He has been trying to get the government to subsidise his machine for poor weavers, but has not met any success. In fact, after showcasing his machine at T-Hub in 2015, he tried to meet IT and textiles minister K T Rama Rao thrice to present his case, but failed.
 
 A series of representations to the Nalgonda district administration and senior officials of the department of handlooms and textiles last year also resulted in empty promises of subsidy . “We met several officials in the handlooms and textiles department but to no avail,“ said Ch Ramesh, a leader of the weaving community .
 
 Mallesham finally turned to crowd-funding via a campaign through http:www.fueladream.com. As on Monday , he has ma naged to raise only `6,500, a long shot from the goal of Rs 3.5 lakh! “Fueladream recognises the significant social impact of the Laxmi ASU machine and is proud to support such a grassroots innovation. Individuals and corporates can fund this campaign on our platform and make a huge impact on poor handloom weavers,“ said Ranganath Thota, founder of the support website.
 
 However, support from the government is crucial in the long run. “In the 2016-17 budget, the Telangana government favoured only the medium-scale mechanised powerloom industry by allocating Rs 70 crore.Not a single rupee was allocated for handloom weavers,“ said Vannala Sriramulu, president of All India Weavers' Welfare Association.
 
 He alleged that 600-700 members of the Padmashali community have committed suicide in the last decade due to lack of support.
 
