KOLKATA: Ten years after Amazon began the experiment with groceries at its Seattle home, the US e-commerce company is set to start selling farm produce, lentils and milk in India once it receives the government’s approval for its wholly-owned foods unit.
 
   , a business that owes its genesis to a 2007 move by the online retailer to offer Seattle area residents doorstep delivery of a limited selection of groceries, awaits Foreign Direct Investment approval before it can sell locally. Besides groceries, Amazon India will continue to invest heavily in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) business for a few more years, according to the Director,   category management, Saurabh Srivastava.
  
  "We will maintain the entire supply chain directly and right sourcing will be the key. Such value was not possible to be delivered had the government not liberalised the   policy," said Srivastava. The company will source fresh produce and staples directly from farmers as part of the Amazon Fresh initiative, he said.
  
  Amazon Fresh has been the key vehicle the e-commerce giant has used to compete with the supermarkets, enabling it to sell fresh produce, dairy and bakery products in the US, UK and Europe. Last June, the company hopped across the Atlantic for the first time, offering services to London consumers.
  
  In India, the company already sells fresh vegetables, fruits and dairy products through its hyperlocal venture Amazon Now in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. For this, it sources the products from the supermarkets based on through screening and packs them in special temperature-controlled boxes for delivery to the consumer household.
  
  "Our experience with Amazon Now is not satisfactory, especially on the quality of produce we source from the supermarkets. Hence, we have not yet started with fish and meat. Once we undertake direct sales and sourcing under Amazon Fresh, we would be able to add much more value," said Srivastava.
  
  He said the company will continue to invest over the next few years and is not looking at immediately generating profit: The company is instead seeking to drive a habit change for consumers buying FMCG and grocery products online. "Our focus is on the long term. Of course, as our order volumes increase, we would drive economies of scale into the business. But we don’t want to focus on just one city to make it profitable right now and would rather expand our offering," he said.
  
  On discounts on low-margin categories such as FMCG, Srivastava said discounts are passed on by the brands or sellers since they see e-commerce as one of the fastest growing channels. "There are discounts in this category that are offered by neighbourhood grocers, supermarkets and even wholesalers, which they are not supposed to do. We have enabled access to all such discounts directly to consumers," he said.
  
  The FMCG category is one of the fastest growing at Amazon and the largest in terms of units sold. There are over 9,000 sellers for FMCG products at present and the business has grown by 165% last year over 2015. Amazon currently sells 1.9 million FMCG products across categories.
