SAMBHAL: Another 33   have left   here in the days following an attack on the houses of some Muslim families on May 11, in the aftermath of the elopement of an inter-faith couple. Shortly after the violence, 10 Muslim families, including that of the youth who had eloped with a married Hindu woman, had fled. In the days since, 33 more families have packed up and left, rejecting appeals from various people including, the local MP, to stay back. The families who fled are now living in Badaun, Sambhal and Aligarh.
 
  Mohammad Shakeel, a schoolteacher whose family was attacked during the violence and who now lives in Gunnaur town of Sambhal, told TOI, “We have lost faith in the police and administration. My entire house was ransacked by the assailants and my sons and daughters were assaulted.”
  
  Another village resident, Nafees Ahamed, 55, who has now shifted to Aligarh, said, “My children still have disturbed sleep. The memories of those horrible attacks haunt us. We were beaten up and threatened for hours.”
  
  Gunnaur sub-divisional magistrate   said, “We have appealed to the families not to leave the village and assured them of the round-the-clock security. The administration is also providing food to families still inside the village.”
  
  “We have asked the officials to prepare a list of all those who have left the village and settled in other places. We will make an appeal to them to come back to their houses and will take the responsibility of their security,” the SDM said.
  
  Nandrauli village, under Gunnaur police station 60 km from here, saw Muslim houses looted, ransacked, demolished and set on fire after a Muslim youth and a married Hindu woman who were having an affair fled on May 8. After the violence on May 9-10, 10 Muslim families, a total of 55 people have fled the village. Those still around are also on the verge of leaving and narrated tales of horror. Police have filed FIRs against hundreds of villagers.
  
  “Muslims comprise 10% of the total population of the village, around 350 out of 3,500. For two successive nights, I heard the cries of women and children when they were attacked, molested and beaten up. They were even attacked in the presence of police and PAC personnel, who did not intervene. Neither did the administration,” village pradhan   had said.
  
  On May 8 evening, the missing woman’s relatives had filed an FIR with Gunnaur police, accusing a Muslim youth of abduction. Police were deployed at the village to maintain law and order.
  
  According to villagers, the situation took a turn for the worse on May 10 night, when a mob attacked more than 12 Muslim houses in the presence of police officials. “The helpless victims ran into the jungles while the houses were looted and set on fire. If I had gone out to help them I might have been killed or fake cases could have been lodged against me,” the pradhan added.
