MEERUT: The income -tax department conducted raids at the Noida, Lucknow and Meerut residences of Meerut regional transport officer (RTO) Mamta Sharma and her husband, additional CEO of Greater Noida Authority (GNIDA) and former Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) Vimal Kumar Sharma, the Lucknow residence of director (health) and former Baghpat DM Hriday Shankar Tiwari, UP special secretary, prisons, Satyendra Kumar Singh, as well as offices and residences of two RTO clerks and three Baghpat district administration clerks on Wednesday.

 “A team of 100 I-T officials was formed and sent for raids at 15 different locations in six cities early on Wednesday morning. We had got a tip-off about unaccounted cash and property of these bureaucrats and hence made different teams. I cannot disclose what we have seized from these locations since the raids are still on. The raids are likely to continue till late on Wednesday night or even Thursday morning, because many documents have come to the fore, which need close examination,” said MK Jain, joint director, investigation, I-T department.
 
 Sources in the department said that property documents and unaccounted cash have been seized from most of the locations. The raids were a part of the   on different locations of bureaucrats in UP and Delhi. The raids started on Wednesday early morning at more than 15 locations in six cities, including, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Noida, Mainpuri, Delhi and Lucknow.
 
 In Meerut alone, raids were conducted on four locations, which included the residence of Sudhir Saxena, a clerk in Meerut RTO, at Vaishali Colony; residence of Ram Gopal, another RTO clerk in Meerut’s Jagriti Vihar; residence of Meerut RTO Mamta Sharma at Cloud 9 Apartments in Chanakyapuri and residence of Shailesh Kumar, a clerk with Baghpat district administration, in Meerut’s Sushant City.
 
 RTO Sharma had been on medical leave for the last 15 days and soon after the raids began her husband and she got admitted to Kailash Hospital in Noida. 
 
 While she would have completed three years in the post in June this year, the two RTO clerks, Sudhir Saxena and Ram Gopal, had been working at the registration department and permit department respectively for over 10 years now.
 
 Meanwhile, residences of Rajesh Sharma, Masallah and Shailesh Kumar, three clerks who had worked with the then Baghpat DM Hriday Shankar Tiwari, were also raided along with the residence of ‘mining mafia’ kingpin Ranveer Sharma.
 
 The I-T department had carried out similar raids against some other   last month. They had searched over 20 premises and detected undisclosed income of over Rs 10 crore, according to officials.
 
 (With inputs from Vandana Keelor in Noida)
 
 
