She started modelling while she was still in college and participated in the   pageant in 2011. Though   was placed fifth and did not win the crown, she ended up winning five titles at the pageant. She might be known for her Telugu movies, but Rakul, who completed her school and college education from Delhi, insists that she is a ‘Dilli ki ladki’ at heart. 

 An alumna of Army Public School, Dhaula Kuan, and Jesus and Mary College, Rakul did her graduation in Mathematics (Hons). “When I took admission, the cut-off was 93% for my course, and I had scored 93.2%. I lived in Defence Colony and wanted to study in South Campus. When the admissions process started, I visited North Campus, but I felt it was very crowded and people were not properly dressed.   is one of the finest colleges in Delhi and has a completely different feel, with its open roads and great crowd,” says Rakul, adding, “I was also getting LSR, and my mum took me there and said, ‘Why don’t you take admission here? LSR se better college koi nahin hai’. I told her, ‘There is no campus feel to the college, there is nothing around and I don’t like the red colour of the building’. I wanted to study in a good-looking college! But on a serious note, Math (Hons) was better at JMC and the Economics course was better at LSR.”
 
 Like most Delhiites, Rakul also misses the food here. She says, “I especially miss the chaat. During my college days, I used to go to CP and south Delhi to have chaat. I don’t like it when people in Mumbai say that you can try the paani puri there – I don’t want paani puri, I want golgappe! When in Delhi, I always go to the places where I used eat chaat during college days.”
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Rakul tells us that the although JMC is one of the finest colleges in the city, its vibe is completely different from other DU colleges. She recalls, “It was a strict college. They used to say, ‘Why are you bunking?’ And we were like, ‘This is college, you are expected to do that’! I remember, I did my first movie (Gilli) in college and fell short on my attendance, so the college authorities told me that it is not going to work. We needed 66% attendance to be allowed to take exams. So I used to attend those classes at the end of the semester where you get double attendance, and somehow made it to 65.7%. Then they let me sit for my exams. After that, I realized that I cannot deal with the stress, so its better to finish my college first, then do films.”
 
 
 
 Rakul was in Delhi to shoot for her upcoming film, Aiyaary, which also stars  , and was excited to meet her friends from school and college. Before the shoot began, she told us, “Yes, this will be the first time that I will be shooting in Delhi. I will also get the chance to meet my school and college friends. Since my schedule is packed, I won’t be able to go to Gurgaon where my parents live. I have lived in Gurgaon only for six months. Initially, when I moved out of Delhi, my parents shifted to Gurgaon, so I couldn’t spend much time there. But I really like the vibe of the place and my brother is a typical Gurgaonwallah. He goes to most of the parties in Gurgaon,” she tells us.
 
 
 
 Before she took admission in Army Public School, Rakul had already changed 10 schools because of her dad’s postings, who was a Colonel in the  . The actress says that this is what has helped her adapt to change. “I think it is easier for me because of the army background. I know I can adapt to any place, whether it is a village or a city like Delhi. But I can adjust with different people as well. My parents always kept my schedule tight. They weren’t strict but disciplined. I was never allowed to play ghar-ghar. They told me, ‘If you want to play something, learn lawn tennis, golf. My mum used to tell me that I should know everything. Right from school, my schedule was always tight. I would return from school and go for classes or learn golf, and on reaching home, I’d finish my home work and then go to sleep. I really need to thank my parents for that as they kept me busy, and now I can handle the pressure because of them,” she says. 
 
 
 
 
