KOCHI: As the 30   into four groups performed songs written and set to music all by themselves, film composer   glued to his seat listening, awed by the flair of the   

 Sunder was attending the certification ceremony of a first-of-its-kind summer camp organized in the state, which trained kids with introductory lessons in music composing. 
 
 The kids came up with four songs from the scratch based on themes of their choice: memories, dreams, nature and road to life.
 
 "Children who had never scribbled a line before wrote lyrics for songs they wanted to compose. Despite confusion on whether to compose according to lyrics or to write lines that would suit the music, they composed their own songs, which is being recorded for release as an album later. The kids have also got an opportunity to perform their songs live at a five star hotel here," said music director Alphons Joseph, the instructor of the summer camp at Crossroads School of Music.
 
 The themes were decided in a matter of minutes, the students said. "As it was decided quickly, our inherent sentiments got reflected in the lyrics and music of the songs. Any one can relate to these broad themes," said a student in the group. The students were given a variety of music composing exercises for developing a knack for professional music and background score composing over the duration of the one month camp, at the end of which they were asked to create their own pieces. 
 
 For instance, the students were asked to put together a composition for a video that were given to them, or they were given with a bunch of music bits which they had to compile into a single piece. Various listening exercises were also part of the programme.
 
 "The most important faculty of a composer is the skill of listening, all the time and all forms of music. Comprehensive listening is a part of developing experience and in-depth know-how for a composer," Sunder said in an interactive session with the kids and their parents, noting that the compositions of the students were exceptional.
 
 Sunder also addressed the collective concern of artistic children in the state where academics is given precedence above everything else.
 
 "The approach of the parents who dissuade the children who are passionate in taking up off beat occupations like these need to change if we want to have artists with mettle," Sunder said. However, Alphons said that the outlook of parents is shifting. Many parents are now supportive and understanding of their children.
 
 "Many of the children who joined the course have extremely supportive parents as opposed to yesteryears. However, some parents are still hesitant in letting them follow their passion and I'm putting in my effort to persuade them," Alphons said.
 
 Apart from 'introduction to music composing', the participants were also guided on forming music bands. The students were trained on how to perform in areas where they have strength -   - complementing the entire group. Students performed a couple of all-time hits as part of the excercise.
 
