For singletons in Mumbai, renting a house is no mean feat. It’s even more difficult, if the prospective tenant is an actor! Some of television’s leading men, despite being household names, struggle to find accomodation in the city. And even when they finally manage to find homes, the conditions and restrictions set by landlords and societies are many. The reasons cited by home owners on why they don’t take in actors range from erratic schedules, inconsistency in paying rent, abusive behaviour and late-night visits by girlfriends. BT spoke to a few men from the TV industry, who have had a harrowing time finding a home in the city of their dreams.

 
 
 
 “Over the past six years, I have lived in different areas across Mumbai. I have been treated very shabbily by my landlords. Once I rented a flat on the fifth floor in a building without any lift and was still charged more than the regular rate. All of them place the same conditions — no partying, no returning late, and no 
 girls allowed at home. While one landlord was okay with female visitors, he insisted that they should not wear short clothes.”
 
 
 
 
 “It was traumatic finding a home in this city. Landlords and housing societies come up with clauses as and when they like. Once, my friends zeroed in on a place and I decided to shift there after my shoot. I reached the apartment at night, with my belongings, only to be told that they had suddenly changed their mind about having actors as tenants! I was literally rendered homeless that night.”
 
 
 
 “It is anyway tough for actors to find a house on rent, and more so, if they are non-vegetarian. There is also a bias against people from Delhi. Late-night parties are a strict no-no. I have to seek my landlord’s permission, even 
 if my family wants to come over. It’s as good as staying in a jail.”
 
 
 
 
 “Bachelors are quoted higher rents than families, but if you are an actor, you end up paying even more than other singletons, who are not actors. I have to give prior notice to my landlord if my family is visiting. Lady friends are never allowed. Looking for a house is so stressful that even if I want to shift, I have to think twice.”
 
 
 
 
 “I am from Navi Mumbai, but I had to move to Goregaon because of my work. My landlord knew that I work for 12 to 18 hours every day, but he still enforced a 11 pm deadline. He had rules about not getting any guests at home. My parents who live in   were also interviewed before I was allowed to move in. It’s only after they convinced him that they would visit me regularly, that he agreed to take me as a tenant.”
 
 
 On their part, landlords say that actors make for bad tenants. Navin Saini, an actor and secretary of a housing society in Goregaon, says, “There have been so many ugly incidents, sometimes even involving the police, when it comes to the acting fraternity. As an actor, I too had a tough time finding a house, but I soon realised why owners are biased. Though it will be wrong to generalise, many actors party till late in the night, play loud music and indulge in abusive behaviour with the building watchmen. Also, most struggling actors fail to pay rent on time. Soon, they start subletting the apartment, which leads to even more partying and nuisance. Now, before allowing an actor to stay in our society, we interview him and check his family background thoroughly.” 
 
 Vishal Shah, a realty agent who mainly deals in properties in the Western suburbs, says that his business has dipped by almost 40-60 per cent because people are not interested in renting out to actors. He says, “There was a time when Goregaon, Malad and areas in Andheri like Lokhandwala and   were popular among TV actors. However, because of the difficulty in finding a home, many are now shifting to   and Vasai. It makes sense because most of their sets are located closer to those areas.”
 
