HYDERABAD: Days after Swathi, who committed suicide by leaving a selfie video in Bongir, which is on the suburbs of Hyderabad, her husband Naresh who has been missing under suspicious condition since May 2, Rachakonda police on Saturday declared that Naresh was murdered by  's family members. Reason:  .

 Rachakonda police said that Naresh was murdered by Swathi's father   Reddy, and two others by first hitting him with a blunt object and later setting his body on fire. The murder took place at the agriculture land owned by Srinivas. Several days ago, Swathi had an inter caste marriage with with Naresh, who belongs marginalised community, against her parents wishes. The couple had to elope to get married and later relocate themselves to Mumbai. It was on May 1, Swathi was called to Hyderabad by her annoyed parents after convincing that they accept their marriage and asked her to return to Hyderabad and promised that they will perform her marriage officially. 
 
 After Swathi returned from Mumbai along with her husband Naresh on May 1, Swathi committed suicide on May 16 at her parents residence by hanging herself to the ceiling. She took a selfie video, in which she blamed Naresh and his parents responsible for her death as she has been harassed for money and other reasons. 
 
 From the beginning Naresh's parents has been suspecting the role of Swathi's father and her family members, behind Naresh's missing. Naresh's family members few days ago moved High court, seeking direction to   police to trace Naresh and they also mentioned that police had not questioned Srinivas Reddy. 
 
 It was on Friday night, finally Srinivas was taken into custody by police and during the interrogation, he confessed that Naresh is no more as Naresh was brutally killed. ''On the day Naresh was murdered, Swathi was alive. They made Swathi telephone Naresh to their agriculture field in Bongir. Naresh, who was in Uppal, reached Bongir, where he was murdered. The motive of the murder is that Srinivas Reddy could not accept that his daughter had intercaste marriage that too to a lower caste person,'' a source in Rachakonda commissionerate said. Today evening, Rachakonda Commissioner is going to hold the press conference, to disclose the full details surrounding this murder. Srinivas Reddy in the past had criminal record against him. 
 
