CHANDIGARH: Singed by the widespread violence and arson during the pro-quota Jat agitation in Haryana in February 2016, this time the   has provided security cover to statues of various state icons -Jat and non Jat -to thwart any vandalisation bid.

 This is apart from the heightened security in the state with the stir entering the 18th day on Wednesday. Though the protests have remained peaceful so far, the Jat leaders have threatened to intensify the stir after February 19 if their demands are not accepted.
 
 Police decided to deploy security men near statutes as it was the damage to the scuptures of various famous personalities last year that acted as a trigger for the violence and fanned hatred between the different communities. The areas where the statues are installed have been declared as "sensitive“ and five armed police personnel have been deployed per structure. This deployment has been there in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts since the stir began on January 29.
 
 In Rohtak, the district police have deployed special police guards to protect the statues of Sir Chotu Ram, an ideologue of the Jat peasantry, Bhim Rao Ambedkar,a Dalit icon and social reformer, Charan Singh, Jat leader,  , an eminent freedom fighter, and others. Similar arrangements have been made in Jhaj jar to protect the statues of   and  , one of the prominent leaders of the Indian Uprising of 1857 against the colonial British forces.
 
 Rohtak superintendent of police Pankaj Nain said extra police force has been deployed around statues in the city given the sensitivity of the issue and to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 In February 2016, the miscreants had vandalized the statues of Chotu Ram and Rao Tula Ram in Jhajjar.
 
 This had escalated tension in the city. During the agitation, miscreants had also vandalized the bust of Lt Ravin der Chhikara, a soldier from the Jat community who died fighting terrorists in 2000 and was awarded a gallantry medal.
 
 “Though most of the dharnasprotest by the Jat community are being held outside the cities, but still a small incident can trigger violence. We have been told to protect these statues round the clock,“ said a cop deployed in Rohtak.
 
