AJMER: Looking onto the upcoming   of  ,   will be deployed at railway stations to keep a check on explosives and   carried by passengers. 

 Along with this, helpline booths will be set up at Ajmer, Madar and Daurai satellite railway stations and 56 CCTV cameras will keep close watch on activities in platforms and station premises.
 
 Divisional railway manager Puneet Chawla on Thursday hold a meeting with different officials on security measures during Urs and asked them to remain alert on any suspicious activity to provide a secure atmosphere to devotees. He said   (RPF) has been deputed for security and trained employees will monitor CCTIV cameras. Luggage scanner and metal detector will scan every baggage outside platform. “Vehicle scanner will also have a check on every four wheelers in station premises,” said Chawla.
 
 A special team has been deputed near MCO office at the gate of railway station to foil any attempt towards disrupting peace. A special arrangement for 24 hours availability of fire brigade and ambulance at railway stations has also been made. 
 
 For first time, railways has also formed Quick Response Team (QRT) to manage any untoward situation and provide security to passengers inside station premises.
 
 “We have also initiated a very important drive and removed baggers and unsocial elements from railway premises to provide secured atmosphere,” added Chawla.
 
 Beside this, a special team will keep watch on waiting rooms, reservation counters, ticket kiosks.
 
  “The major instruction is that not a single passenger travel on the roof of any train,” added Chawla. Officials have also been directed to monitor security measure every 24 hours and report immediately. Rajasthan police and GRP have also participated in the meeting and were directed to perform round the clock monitoring outside the railway station.
 
 Meanwhile, a cycle rally was also organised by railways on Thursday to create awareness about environment. The rally kicked off from divisional railway office in the evening and roamed on to different pockets of the city. 
 
