NAINITAL: Close on the heels of ordering the seizure of EVMs in Vikasnagar constituency of Dehradun district last week, Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday ordered sealing of EVMs in six more constituencies of the state - Mussoorie, Rajpur Road (Dehradun),  , Raipur, Pratapnagar and  . The court said that the sealing and seizure should be completed within 48 hours in the presence of a judicial magistrate. The order assumes significance as it is perhaps the first instance that a high court has ordered the seizure of EVMs used in as many as seven seats of a state.
 
  The order delivered by the single bench of Justice SK Gupta was in response to a petition filed by the runner-up candidates in these constituencies belonging to the Congress party who had approached HC with the plea that the machines given by the   were replaced by the winning candidates who had also manipulated and tampered with the EVMs.
  
  While ordering the seizure, the court issued notices to the central government, state election commission and all the six winning candidates --   (Rajpur Road), Adesh Kumar Chauhan (BHEL Ranipur), Umesh Sharma Kau (Raipur), Ganesh Joshi (Mussoorie), Vijay Singh Panwar (Pratapnagar) and Yatiswaranand (Haridwar rural), all BJP MLAs --- asking them to file their replies within six weeks.
  
  Just three days earlier, the court had ordered the EVM machines used in the Vikasnagar seat to be sealed in the presence of a judicial magistrate after hearing a petition filed by Navprabhat, former cabinet minister and Congress leader, who alleged that the machines had been tampered with. Navprabhat had lost the seat to BJP leader Munna Singh Chauhan by a margin of over 6,000 votes.
  
  Reacting to the HC order, Navprabhat told TOI, “This shows that some new patterns are emerging in the state’s election dynamics. Without informing candidates, EVMs of their constituencies are being changed and machines are being moved from the strong room without telling the candidates. It is a very serious matter, which needs to be taken up on the national level.”
  
  Meanwhile, Rajpur Road MLA Khajan Das said, “I respect the HC order and will abide by the court’s directions. However, the claims made by the Congress leaders who have lost the polls are frivolous.
 
  It seems that since they don’t have any other work to do, they have taken recourse to such complaints.” In a similar vein, Raipur MLA Umesh Sharma Kau said, “ We will be filing our replies as per the court’s order. However, the allegations made by the Congress regarding tampering of EVMs are laughable. They lost the polls for the simple reason that the people rejected them outright.”
  
