NAGPUR: After the overwhelming response of consumers received two years ago, divisional joint director (agriculture) of Nagpur division and project director of   (ATMA) organized a 10-day bonanza for mango lovers called ‘Amba Mahotsav’ at Administrative building No. 2, near Zilla Parishad, Civil lines.

 Truckloads of   including Dasehri, Kesar, Langra, Totapari, Chausa are available here at stalls put up by farmers of Vidarbha. The key reason behind this event is to provide naturally ripened mangoes to customers in this era of adulteration where chemical-free fruits and vegetables are like searching for a needle in the haystack.
 
 Joint director Vijay Ghawate has taken up the charge. “Last year the exhibition could not be held due to bitter harvest but the good times are back,” said farmers. Anant Shivankar from Belati, said, “Vidarbha has tremendous potential for production of mangoes but the infrastructure is poor.”
 
 The activity which brings both parties on a single platform, has proven to be a major boost for farmers are they make fairly good profit by selling off products to customers directly. Consumers, on the other hand, have a chance to relish mangoes fresh from nature at reasonable rate.
 
 Project director Pradnya Gholghate said, “Nowadays, to make a quick bucks sellers use calcium carbide to artificially ripen the fruit. They don’t have patience to wait till the fruits ripen naturally. This puts the life of customers at risk. These harmful chemicals cause incurable diseases like cancer but people still consume them as they cannot differentiate between the natural and adulterated item, while some are still unaware of the deleterious game of adulteration.” 
 
 Customers are taking home sets of raw mangoes which would ripen in eight days. Selling the items at the same price as in   village in  , farmer Kauluji Shantalwar said, “I don’t wish to make huge profits but I want everyone to taste my fruits and know what real mangoes are.” Nodding in agreement, Dilip Kumbhare from Umrer said, “I invest my heart and soul for obtaining best yield of the product and the satisfaction received after delivering it to people knows no bound.”
 
 Shantalwar also revealed that last time he did a business Rs2 lakh and almost all farmers sold off their whole stock and this year the expectations are a notch higher.
 
 
