CHENNAI: Swarnalakshmi* sat by a petty shop in   on Wednesday, Rama Navami, and asked passersby: “Sami Kumbitaacha?“ (Have you offered prayers to God?) Many said yes.

 This is not a casual exchange. According to Income Tax officials, camping in RK Nagar to crack down on cash distribution, this is a code phrase. “It means `have you received cash'," says an  . “The going rate for a vote here is Rs 4,000.”
 
 Cash distribution is rampant in RK Nagar that goes to the polls on April 12. According to election authorities, on the intervening night between April 4 and 5, they arrested 15 people. District election officer D Karthikeyan said 13 lakh cash was seized.
 
 A systematic way of cash distribution orchestrated by political parties in the constituency helps them fly under the radar of election authorities. To this end, involvement of locals, particularly women, has helped the candidates.
 
 “The women help political parties identify potential voters. They also keep a watch while parties are engaged in distributing cash, and alert them when they spot flying squad teams. Sirens used in the vehicles of these squads make their work all the more easier,” the IT official said.
 
 (*Names changed) “The women help the parties identify potential voters. During the cash distribution window, they task the women with recce work.The women will alert the cash agents if a flying squad turns around the corner. It doesn't help that flying squads move in vehicles with sirens," the IT official said. Questioning them for clues does not yield results, the official said. “They are polite with us till a point. Beyond that, they abuse us. Once we leave the spot, the agents resurface and the remaining cash is distributed," the official added.
 
 On Wednesday afternoon, minutes after Karthikeyan's press conference announcing the arrest of 15 people concluded, TOI was contacted by a Korukkupet resident who said a major candidate had sent his cadre to distribute cash. “They knocked on our doors a little after 10 pm on Tuesday. The people were dressed in casual wear. They did not look like regular party workers," said Gnanam Raja* “They asked me if we had received money. When we said no, they placed 8,000 in my hands, ticked our names in a registry they had carried, and left. The whole area was covered last night," he said.
 
 Having faced three elections in three consecutive years, R K Nagar residents, who had been showered with gifts and cash in the previous years, now expect to be paid by candidates. If someone doesn't pay, then they are surprised.
 
 A few contesting candidates have justified the people's expectation by going on record asking them to accept the money. Dhanasekaran, a Tondiarpet resident, felt that this situation has emboldened the locals. “They feel that the candidates are only paying them back their money , their tax money," he said.
 
