MEERUT: In a  , a 20-year-old   and died on the spot allegedly after being hit by the gate of a car, which was “opened abruptly” by its driver.

  Soon after the accident, the family members of the youth and some locals vandalised the bus and tried to set the car on fire at Eves Crossing, in the heart of the city. The mob also attacked policemen and media persons.
 
  Later, police arrested five men and deployed personnel at the spot to prevent the situation from deteriorating. While the boy, Osama (21), died on the spot, pillion rider, 21-year-0ld Harmaan survived with minor injuries.
 
  Meerut SP (city)   said, “The accident took place when an Innova car driver opened the door of his car without looking out for the traffic coming his way. Osama -- who was riding a two-wheeler -- got hit by the car and fell down on the road, where he was crushed by a bus. The relatives of the victims got agitated after the accident and vandalized the bus and the car with stones, and also attempted to put the car on fire.”
 
  Meanwhile, the locals rushed Osama and Harmaan to Eves Hospital, where Osama was declared brought dead. Some locals also helped in catching the bus driver and conductor.
 
  “When I saw that the driver and conductor of Meerut city bus were fleeing from the spot, I along with others caught them and handed them over to the police on their arrival. While some of us caught hold of the accused, others took the two boys to the hospital,” said an eye-witness on account of anonymity.
 
  Osama’s body was sent for post mortem to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) medical college
 .
  As police reached the spot to control the situation, the mob attacked them. Some media persons were also attacked and their cameras were broken.
  “We have arrested five persons from the spot. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. We have got pictures clicked at the spot and more accused will be identified and then sent to jail," the SP said.
 
  Afroz and Faisal -- deceased’s brother and cousin respectively – and Aftaab have been booked under IPC 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 436 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house)and 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty),” said Ranvijay Singh, circle officer, Kotwali.
 
  The other two arrested from the spot include Dushyant and Jitendra – the driver and conductor of the bus – and have been booked under IPC 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304 (a) (Causing death by negligence).
