The opposition parties on Monday launched a scathing attack on government for its   2017, which they alleged was introduced to promote crony capitalism and gives unbridled powers to the Income Tax department to snoop on people's lives by linking everything with Aadhaar, turning India into a totalitarian state.

 Congress leader  , while opposing the bill, also said that the government has called 125 crore people of the country “dishonest“ for not paying their taxes and wants to unleash a “terror regime“ and make people live in “fear“.
 
 Asking government to increase the prosperity of people and bring investment in the country, Sibal, while referring to BJP's win in recent assembly elections, said that “demonisation, not demonetisation has succeeded“. He added that BJP has had an “electoral victory“ but what is required is `victory of policies'. His concerns on the finance bill were shared by most of the opposition parties including SP, BSP and the Left, who also lambasted the government for not creating jobs in the country, not waiving farmers' loan and being unable to stop farmers' suicides .
 
 Questioning the use of Aadhaar for filing tax returns, Sibal said that it amounted to snooping into people's lives and the PM and the finance minister had earlier raised concern over the use of the unique identity number when the BJP was in opposition.
 
 Taking a dig at the BJP-led dispensation, he said some people in this government may have “the experience in snooping“ and added that this also showed BJP's “double talk“.
 
 He called government's move on Aadhaar a violation of SC directions, adding that its original use was for only public distribution system (PDS). The former UPA minister, while looking at the treasury benches, where FM Arun Jaitley was sitting, even compared the present regime with Hitler era. He said that government's explanation can only be arrogance of power and that he saw qualities of Nazi leaders Himmler and Goebbels in one person.
 
 While talking about crony capitalism, Sibal said that the government has done away with the cap on contributions that companies could make to political parties. “Now these companies don't even need to disclose this amount or the identity of the beneficiary even to their shareholders,“ he said, claiming that these provisions were included to ensure that the party in power gets unabated funding for national, state or even civic elections.
 
 Observing that there were several companies competing for contracts against which there are proceedings or which need restructuring, Sibal alleged that the government's motive was “merely to see that they contribute to the kitty of the ruling party .“
 
 “You are playing with the economic fabric of the country and you talk about transparency ,“ he asserted.
 
 Accusing government of giving “unbridled power“ to tax authorities through the provisions of the finance bill, he said that tax authorities can now carry out search or seizure without divulging the “reason to believe“ to the assessee.
 
 He said the political opponents could be targeted through this provision and they may not get respite from any appellate body and possibly even from the higher courts.
 
