PATNA: Patna University ( ) will construct a “wall of fame” with names of 25 distinguished alumni engraved on it as well as a centenary pillar on the main campus to mark its centenary celebrations.

 This was decided at a meeting of the heads of PG departments and principals of colleges of PU held recently under the chairmanship of VC Ras Bihari Prasad Singh. 
 
 While the “wall of fame” of granite will be placed on the decorative pillars near the PU office, the centenary pillar will be erected on the premises of PU Central Library.
 
 The meeting discussed ways and means for holding the university’s centenary celebrations in a big way. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already consented to be the chief guest on the occasion.
 
 It was decided to hold a series of functions from September to November to commemorate the centenary. The university has already urged the state government to sanction Rs 5 crore for the purpose. PU is also approaching the UGC to sanction UGC Heritage Status grant of Rs 10 crore for the implementation of its proposed development schemes.
 
 The VC said prior to the main function likely to be held in the first week of October (PU’s foundation day falls on October 1), a centenary run would be organized from PU office to Kargil Chowk in which teachers, officials, employees, students and alumni would participate. 
 
 An alumni meet will also be held in which they would be requested to donate funds for various development activities. They will also be asked to donate funds for distribution of gold medals to the toppers of university examinations.
 
 It was further decided to hold separate meetings of retired teachers and retired employees. Besides, a meeting of the officials of Bihar Chamber of Commerce, Bihar Industries Association and Patna Municipal Corporation will also be convened to seek their cooperation and support for the PU’s centenary celebrations. All the local MPs and legislators besides all central ministers from Bihar will be invited for the big event. At least three centenary seminars and three extra mural lectures will be organized. 
 
 While PU history department has been asked to organize a seminar on “PU’s contribution in national development”, Patna Science College will hold a seminar on “ Contribution of PU in the development of science and technology”. Patna Law College will hold a seminar on “PU’s contributions in the development of legal system”. Besides, inter-university and intra-university competitions in debate, quiz, essay writing and painting will be organized for students.
 
 
