MUMBAI:   is not just a time to battle rivals, it exposes the rift within political parties as well. The Samajwadi spectacle in Uttar Pradesh is an extreme case but Mumbai has its own internal feuds as the   comes up February 21.

 The fault lines within the Congress party caused the ground to quake at a meeting of senior leaders in Vile Parle Sunday. The occasion was the  .
 
 Apart from Mumbai Congress chief Sanjay Nirupam there was  , Nitesh Rane, Gurudas Kamat, Krishna Hegde, Varsha Gaikwad, Bhai Jagtap, Kalidas Kolamkar and Baba Siddiqui.
 
 Sparks flew as Nirupam faced open criticism for "leaking the party manifesto" to the press even though party members were yet to see it themselves.
 
 Hegde said, "Kamat Sahab questioned how the manifesto could be leaked when we ourselves have yet to see it. Everybody else agreed. I also said all leaders must be taken into confidence. Are we fighting to win the elections or as a mere formality?"
 
 Another source said, "Everyone including Narayan Rane,   and Baldev Khosa felt the party must not be a one-man show."
 
 "Certain aspirants are also claiming to have been assured of a party ticket in a covert manner. Our fear stems from past precedent. Six months ago, we were all invited to submit names for block president polls. However, on that occasion also tickets were given to candidates handpicked by the Mumbai Congress chief. Naturally we are anxious to see that the selection process plays out fairly at this all important election," he said.
 
 "When we demanded transparency in ticket distribution Nirupam retorted that he would assign a ticket to even his enemy if he felt that candidate stood to win. Which leader insinuates that his own partymen are his enemies?"
 
 Gurudas Kamat said, "There was no friction. I just ventilated the expectations of the loyal party worker that everyone should be taken into confidence. We all want to, need to and can win."
 
 Nirupam told TOI he had merely "given an outline of the vision statement not the manifesto to the press". He said, "How else will people know what the Congress brings to the table? The manifesto committee is headed by Priya Dutt. The document is still being drafted. In any case, disputes and grievances must be addressed at party fora rather than going public with them."
 
 
