ALLAHABAD: Though elders are yet to accept his leadership, SP’s traditional voters, Muslims and Yadavs, in the eastern rural hinterland of UP seem to have accepted Chief Minister   as their leader.
 
  Even those professing their preference for rivals BSP or BJP recognise Akhilesh as the leader of  , dismissing the claims of Mulayam and Shivpal with disdain. This should be music to the ears of Akhilesh and Ram Gopal. However, the rebellion hasn’t helped Akhilesh gain acceptance beyond the traditional vote banks of SP.
  
  The ‘outsiders’ want a break from the ongoing family feud. "Mulayam ka naam rata hai isliye baar baar wahi nikal raha hai. Mera matlab Akhilesh se hai (Mulayam’s name comes easily as that’s what has been on our tongues. But I mean Akhilesh)," Naseem Khan, a local trader in his 30s hanging out with friends from the same community at Nawabganj-Pariyawan in Babaganj assembly segment of Pratapgarh district, clarifies assertively.
  
  His friends are in complete agreement with him. "Netaji (Mulayam) should now take retirement for Akhilesh… Shivpal has dented Netaji’s image further," says Mohammed Parvez, in his 60s, at Jalalpur Ghosi.
  
  His fellow community members sound cautious while explaining their political preferences in the Allahabad-West assembly segment. The constituency is considered as the original den of Atiq Ahmed whose candidature is a bone of contention between Akhilesh and Mulayam, with the latter favouring Ahmed. Members of the Yadav community, too, are clearly in favour of Akhilesh.
  
  "Had Akhilesh performed worse than him, Netaji’s grouse against his son could have been justified. But Akhilesh has governed better than him," Sunil Yadav, a middle-aged farmer at Bhojpur village in Chayal assembly segment of Kaushambi district, reasons in front of other villagers from the Brahmin, Kurmi, Thakur and Dalit communities.
  
  "Akhilesh has outperformed his father and helped all sections of the society with his welfare schemes," says Kripashankar Yadav, a farmer from Bajhan village in Allahabad-West assembly segment. He says this in front of villagers from the Dalit and Kurmi communities sitting around a bonfire to beat the cold.
  
  This kind of solidarity is, however, missing among members of other communities despite their appreciation for the Akhilesh government. "There is no doubt that Akhilesh has done good work despite his handicap within the party and family," says DK Maurya, a middle-aged villager at Hardoi village crossing in Bachhrawan assembly segment of Rae Bareli.
  
  But he is reluctant to express solidarity with Akhilesh in the forthcoming polls. Likewise, members from the Brahmin, Kurmi, Koeri, Pal and Dalit communities also appreciated the Akhilesh government.
  
  But they are reluctant to back Akhilesh as they still associate him with Mulayam and Shivpal. This lack of shifting loyalties will obviously not cheer BJP or BSP. The respondents are still waiting for the formal culmination of the SP feud.
  
  While Muslim respondents sought a resolution of SP feud in favour of Akhilesh without any split, others indicated that they considered Akhilesh better than  . 
