NAGPUR: The   has now become tougher with the Nagpur   setting up a peer   that would thoroughly check a   before giving nod for one more term.   completing their five-year term will now have to appear before the panel to get an extension.

 Board of College and University Development (BCUD) director DK Agrawal told TOI, “Until now, a teacher with minimum required experience and qualifications used to become principal and get extension after five year term on the basis of performance appraisal indicator (API). It used to be a self-appraisal. Now, the peer review committee will prepare the API to officially authenticate the claims.”
 
 API score is counted on a principal or professor’s participation in national or international conferences, paper presentations, publications, minor and major research projects. However, sources informed many teachers generally stop acquiring knowdelge after becoming principals. Even the conferences listed in their self-assessment are not recognized by the UGC. 
 
 On November 29, 2016, UGC through a circular had directed the university to set up an external peer review committee in accordance with its Regulations on Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universites and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education 2010.
 
 According to the Regulations dated June 30, 2010, “The term of appointment of the college principal shall be five years with eligibility for reappointment for one more term only after a similar selection process that shall take into account an external peer review, its recommendations and its outcomes. The framework of the external peer review shall be specified by the UGC.”
 
 The committee would comprise nominee of vice-chancellor of the affiliating university and a nominee of the UGC chairman. They shall be nominated from among the principals of the colleges with excellence/college with potential for excellence/autonomous colleges/NAAC A+ accreditated colleges. The report of the peer review committee shall be the basis for reappointment of the principal.
 
 Agrawal added that teachers’ academic activity would be assessed before implementing the recommendations of Seventh Pay Commisson too.
 
 “All academic activities will be studied by the university through official channel. Professors and teachers would have to fulfil certain conditions to qualify for Seventh Pay Commission. On these lines, a list of journals is being compiled and uploaded on the UGC website. Participation in these journals and conferences will only be counted,” Agrawal said.
 
