ROHTAK:   (IIM), Rohtak conducted its sixth convocation ceremony on Saturday to award diplomas to 156 students of the sixth batch of the post graduate programme in management in presence of their parents, friends and relatives.

 Former director of the World Bank, Onno Rühl, who is now the general manager with the  , was the chief guest on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Your decisions will impact people’s lives. Your decisions will help shape the future, your own future, your team’s future, your country’s future, and the world’s future.”
 
 Speaking of his days at the World Bank, Rühl said, “I spent 23 years there, and I saw Eastern Europe catch up with the European Union. I saw Africa move from being called ‘The Hopeless Continent’ to being one of the hottest emerging markets. I saw poverty rates worldwide go down.”
 
 “In my last assignment, I saw India become the fastest growing economy in the world,” added Rühl, who was also the former World Bank country director for India. He presented gold medals to two students. Shubham Aggarwal was conferred with a scholastic achievement award while Rahul Varshney bagged the all-around performance award.
 
 Laying emphasis on the achievement of IIM Rohtak, its newly-appointed director   said, “IIM Rohtak has a strategic location in the national capital region that can enable it to be at the centre of the world with the right efforts which commensurate with India’s global aspirations.”
 
 He congratulated the outgoing batch for the remarkable placements. “IIM Rohtak’s final placements for the graduating batch of 2017 saw an increase in the average cost to company (CTC) by 10%, according to the interim report published by the institute. The highest CTC offered was Rs 25.9 lakhs per annum. This is remarkable given the stage of our institute viz-a-viz other established IIMs and other management institutes in India", Sharma said.
 
 Chairman of the IIM Rohtak board of governors   on the occasion announced that, “The institute has been selected by the union ministry of HRD and science and technology as a technical business incubator.”
 
 
