PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The municipal commissioner’s draft   for 2017-18 will be implemented from April 1, and will cover only operational expenses of the  .

 Once the general body gives its final approval for the draft budget, the civic administration will have a full-fledged budget for 2017-18. 
 
 Usually, the municipal commissioner, on behalf of the civic administration, submits the draft budget to the standing committee chairman towards the end of February. The committee, after including suggestions from its members, sends it to the general body for final approval. The GB needs to approve the draft budget before March 31 for it become operational in the new fiscal.
 
 However, the municipal elections were held only on February 23 this year, and the mayor was elected on March 14. The standing committee was formed at the GB meeting on March 23. Ideally, the chairman of the committee should have been elected at the earliest so that the ball could be set rolling on approval for the annual budget for 2017-18. 
 
 It now appears likely that the chairman of the standing committee will be elected only in the first week of April. “Municipal commissioner   will then present the draft budget to the committee for approval,” Eknath Pawar, PCMC’s ruling party leader, told TOI.
 
 “The draft budget will be implemented from April 1 until such time as the GB approves the annual budget,” a senior civic official told TOI. “Till then, the civic administration will only pay bills for routine administrative expenditure, like salaries, government taxes et al. It will not implement any new development works included in the draft budget,” the official added.
 
 However, municipal commissioner has discretionary powers to call for tenders and issue work orders for the new projects in the draft budget, should he feel that the GB is getting inordinately delayed, affecting the development of the city.
 
 Many development projects are in progress in the city, whose bills need to be cleared. “Bills up to March 31 can be cleared from the allocated budget provision. The unspent budget provision, and the provision for new projects approved in 2016-17, would lapse after March 31. In such cases, fresh provisions need to be made in the new annual budget, as the tender still stands,” the official explained.
 
 Details of the draft budget will be made public once the municipal commissioner submits it to the standing committee. 
 
 
