BENGALURU: Charging Prime Minister   with promoting neo-Brahmanism at the behest of capitalist forces, the Dalit think-tank in Karnataka has emphasized the need to reinvigorate the Dalit movement through literature and art, to counter exploitative politics. 

 The realization by Dalit litterateurs and artists, which comes at a time when Karnataka is gearing up for the 2018 assembly polls, strengthens chief minister   as he is heavily banking on the  , which constitutes nearly 24% of the state's population. 
 
 Interestingly, opposition to neo-Brahmanism (referring to the new avatar of Hinduism that covertly opposes social justice and equality for traditionally oppressed castes) was made evident at the international conference titled 'Quest For Equity - Reclaiming Social Justice, Revisiting Ambedkar', organized by the   government here on Saturday.
 
 Dalit poet and   activist   said: "Social justice and equality are becoming endangered as Modi is promoting Neo-Brahmanism. This is a decisive point and we need to stop this surge. The Dalit chaluvali (movement), which intensified in the 1970s, has to be restarted now and be a mix of mind and emotions."
 
 Dalit poet and singer Gollahalli Shivaprasad was blunt when he asked: "Can we believe Modi when he says that caste will be eradicated?" and added: "There is no dearth of great oratory in the current scenario, but the fact is that things are not changing on the ground."
 
  Shivaprasad said Dalit literature will be a gamechanger as it reflects reality, unlike the pre-Dalit movement literature that rode high on fantasy. Referring to commercialization and trivialization of art and music, Shivaprasad feared that there has been a systematic effort to destroy Dalit art and culture. 
 
  "We need to revive folk songs and also compile them in text format for future generations," he said. Dalit litterateur H T Pothe alleged that the untouchability tag was slowly being assigned to Dalit literature too, and appealed to community youngsters, who are addicted to mobile phone content, not to be misled by false propaganda. "Brahmins had created history to entertain women and children till Ambedkar came and awakened all. But now the same template of distortion is being applied to Dalit art and culture," Pothe said. 
 
