Mumbai: Around 3,000 employees of the erstwhile associate banks of   have sought early retirement under a scheme that is part of a merger plan. Although several jobs in treasury, corporate banking and head offices of the merged banks have become redundant, the bank’s chairman   said that officials will be redeployed to close the ‘skill gap’ faced by the bank in other areas.

 At the very top, six CEO positions of the subsidiaries have become redundant. However, two have already retired and most of the remaining will retire in 2017. The bank has also freed 180 jobs in treasury and dozens in corporate accounts group and other functions, but these executives will also be redeployed, Bhattacharya said. The merger would be beneficial for employees of erstwhile associate banks, who have several years of service left but those who are due to retire might not see advantages and have therefore been given an option for early retirement.
 
 Following the merger, the bank will relocate close to 1,800 branches where offices of the erstwhile associate banks are located cheek by jowl with other   branches. “We will not give up the branch licences but will use them to open new offices,” said Bhattacharya. She was briefing the media after merger of the five associate banks —  ,  ,  ,   and   — and Bharatiya Mahila Bank with SBI.
 
 “We have been adding 800 branches a year. Now with over 24,000 branches, we may not have to add new branches,” said Rajnish Kumar, MD, SBI. The relocations are likely to include high street branches in large cities where SBI and its associate banks had their branches. 
 
 Bhattacharya said that there would not be any immediate drop in cost of funds for SBI as the associate banks paid more on their deposits than SBI. But there would be large benefits for customers as erstwhile associate bank customers will get access to all personal loan products of SBI, which were the cheapest in the industry.
 
 While the legal merger is over, the ‘data merger’ will take place after the annual audit is completed on April 21. This refers to the archive of transactions that will be moved to SBI’s main database, enabling all customers to access accounts from any branch.
 
 Highlighting the scale of the exercise, Bhattacharya said that it spoke a lot of the IT capability of the country as SBI’s core banking system has more than 43 crore savings accounts. “A database-wise ranking of banks is not available, but Oracle tells us that our 500TB database is the biggest deployment by any bank,” said Bhattacharya. “Following the upgrade, our systems are now capable of handling 15,000 transactions per second,” she added.
 
 Despite having a customer base of 50 crore accounts, Bhattacharya said that the bank would soon be in a position to provide even more personalised service. “Today the products that we have are not just driven by digital, they are also driven by analytics. Soon we will be able to customise everything for individual customers,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 
