KOLKATA: A day after popular   Kanchana Moitra was insulted and molested, residents of Muchipara and Mondalpara — off Raja Rammohan Road — believe the incident has brought shame to the area that is home to some of the biggest Pujas in the Behala and Haridevpur stretch. They believe they could have done more to come to the rescue of Moitra while she was being bullied and pushed around on the main road in the middle of the night by three  . 

 Most residents TOI tried to speak to claimed they were not on the spot at the time of incident. “It is terrible to know that no one came to the actor’s rescue. I wonder, what if there was a local woman instead of the actor in that situation. There were merely three drunk, unarmed men trying to make a mockery of a popular actor, and yet no one dared stop them,” said Saoni Sengupta, a resident of nearby Mondalpara.
 
 The incident has led to a backlash on social media after police put up the incident on their page. Debopam Das wrote: “Requesting you to post the ordeal these anti socials will face in the future too...so that other similar culprits think twice before making a nuisance and crime!” 
 
 Ranjana Roychowdhury wrote: “It is shocking that Kolkatans have become so insensitive. This certainly was not the culture of Kolkata.”
 
 Lalbazar, meanwhile, has promised to nab the third accused and submit the chargesheet real quick. 
 
 Accused Surajit Panda (25), a resident of Raja Rammohan Road of Muchipara, has claimed he did not “recognize” the actor and he wanted to teach the driver a “lesson for daring” to brush past him. A second year college dropout — who just about manages to meet his daily needs through a private firm job — Panda has laid the blame squarely on Moitra herself. His mother Rekha Panda (47) blamed the actor for dragging “Panda into trouble”. “She hit my son with her car, came out and slapped my son when he protested. She even entered my residence and tried to manhandle me. Yet the cops only arrested my son,” said Rekha, who claims she never knew Moitra as there is no television in the house.
 
 Second accused Sankar Dauli (25), a taxi driver who lives in the same area, has remained non-committal about his actions before the police. His wife Pinky Dului told TOI she was with her parents, having given birth to their son just a month ago, and did not know what transpired that night. “I know Kanchanadi well, I watch all her serials. I had never seen my husband misbehave before. I cannot believe he could do such things with an actor. Two years ago, he underwent long medication after developing nerve problems. Now that he has been arrested, I have no clue how I will feed my infant,” said Pinky. She was informed by her sister-in-law about the arrest almost 12 hours later. “I know my husband is guilty but then I am sure it was an one-off incident,” claimed Pinky. 
 
 A day after the two were arrested, police said their claim of being “victims of an accident” has fallen flat. The duo is presently in police custody and being questioned about their actions on Monday midnight. 
 
 “There is no justification for their actions,” said an officer.
 
