HYDERABAD: Commuters using the   (ORR) may have to shell out more   as the cash-strapped   (HMDA) has proposed a steep hike of 50% in the existing rates. Drivers of nearly all categories of vehicles are set to be hit adversely due to the proposed hike.

 The urban authority sent the proposal to increase toll fee to the municipal administration and urban development department as it suffered huge revenue loss for a month after demonetisation of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. To ease up the demonetisation impact on motorists, HMDA had stopped toll collection for 23 days in NovemberDecember last year.
 
 “The toll collected on the ORR is less compared to other expressways such as Yamuna Expressway, Mumbai-Pune Expressway and   toll fees,“ HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjeevulu told STOI on Saturday . The new rates will be imple mented as soon as the government gives the go ahead,“ HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjeevulu told STOI on Saturday.
 
 The top official said as of now, Rs 1.05 per km is being collected as toll for car, jeep and other light motor vehicles and this is proposed to be hiked to Rs 1.58 per km. Similarly, the existing rate of `1.69 per km for mini buses and light commercial vehicles, is set to go up to Rs 2.54 per kilometre. But for buses and twin axle trucks, HMDA proposed only 27% hike on present toll fee. While the existing rate for buses is Rs 3.85 per km, the new recommended rate is Rs 4.50.
 
 The authority has been getting about Rs 9.3 crore per month from  ., the toll collection agency. The HMDA, a couple of days ago, revised the amount due from the agency per month to Rs 10.84 crore. The ORR was completed by HMDA with loans from commercial banks for the project's Phase I, while Phase II-A was taken up on a Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis as well as with financial assistance from   (JICA). All put together, the project cost the authority Rs 6,696 crore.
 
 “ORR is a eight-lane access controlled expressway with paved shoulders, complete greenfield construction. Soon, an intelligent transport system will be introduced on the stretch for quick and safe travel. Though the HMDA provides facilities, the toll fee it collects is less compared to   which allows 50% over base rates even for two and four lanes projects,“ Chiranjeevulu said.
 
