KOLKATA:  's arrow has struck propped-up cash coffers at an unlikely time and the serendipity has taken business by a pleasant surprise.

 “When it comes to love, people are blind. Even demonetisation is not a deterrent,“ smiles   of Bakstage, a pub in Salt Lake's Sector V .
 
 The gift-and-love-giving occasion of Valentine's Day provides an uptick to the retail industry , both online and offline. This year, the day has come at an opportune time when there is as much cash in the system as anywhere else.
 
 In a sense, Valentine's Day is first occasion for leisure spending after the cash crisis started diffusing in the market. From florists to eateries to gift stores, everybody had been eying the opportunity to mop up revenue to prop up their business hit by demonetisation.
 
 At Tipsy Bull on Burdwan Road, the business is not as good compared to last year but it is “very decent“. “We have had steady bookings,“ said owner Nitish Saraf.
 
 Even the traditional eateries joined the Valentine's Day bandwagon to boost their business. Aminia in New Market was all decked up with red heart-shaped balloons. “Our business has usually been very good on this day earlier. It is the same this year. There has been a steady stream of couples coming in,“ said a eatery representative.
 
 But it seems that flowers are no longer the best way to express love this Valentine's Day . Though the sale has been better than other days post-demonetisation, the demand has gone down by almost 50% this time compared to last year.
 
 “Footfall has not dropped much but people are not buying big bouquets this time.They have reduced their bud get on flowers,“ said Tapas Manna, manager of   on Chittaranjan Avenue. It was the same story at Ferns and Petals on Sarat Bose Road. “Business is not too good this year. People are spending the same money on dinning out and gifts,“ said Ajay Saini, outlet owner.
 
 They are not the only ones feeling disconnected. Social media timelines were full of sarcastic, deriding and sometimes even admonishing posts, something sociologists termed “ Anti-Valentine's Day backlash“.
 
