AURANGABAD: The Nanded division of the   (SCR) had kept a strong vigil on the passengers travelling without tickets during the last fiscal.

 The official data shows that 1.52 lakh passengers were penalised for travelling without tickets in the year 2016-17 compared to 1.33 lakh passengers who were penalised in 2015-16.
 
 The drive against ticketless travellers was intensified in March, this year. The railway officials said that they caught over 11,405 passengers and collected an all-time high revenue generation of Rs 54.52 lakh.
 
 The official record shows that the penal action have raked in Rs 5.59 crore in the last fiscal. During the drive, the officials found out that most of the passengers were either travelling without a platform ticket or had a ticket meant for another class.
 
 Senior divisional commercial manager with SCR, Nanded division K Madhusudan, said, “The drive against ticketless travellers was intensified last year. Passengers travelling through express and passenger trains were on the radar along with those entering the railway platforms without a platform ticket.”
 
 A railway official said, “As per terms and conditions, passengers travelling without a ticket are penalized to pay the base fare plus Rs 250 towards compounding action. Similarly, those who are caught entering the platform without a mandatory Rs 10 ticket are fined up to Rs 250.”
 
 Almost 90 express and passenger train run through Nanded on a daily basis. Sometimes an additional 20 trains also run through Nanded.
 
 A member of the Marathwada railway vikas samiti, Om   pressed that there is a need for a round-the-clock vigil against such ticketless travellers.
 
 Verma said, “Such measure would reduce the menace of habitual offenders. Not only the revenue of the railways would go up, but also the honest passengers will be benefited.”
 
 He added, “There is a need to increase the number of ticket checkers (TCs). Ticketless travellers are increasing every passing day because of the poor number of TC’s. It is a common sight to see a major chunk of travellers travelling long distances without a ticket.”
 
 A frequent traveller between Nashik and Aurangabad, Keshav Rantaparkhe said, “TC invariably focuses on AC coaches while other coaches remain unattended. Ticketless travellers prefer non-AC coaches for free travelling.”
 
 Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer of SCR, Nanded division, said, “I appeal to the passengers that they purchase tickets before travelling to avoid any kind of embarrassment. Besides booking through counters, ICRTC mobile application can be also used for reservation.”
 
 Year/Ticketless traveller/ Recovery
 
 2016-17/1.52 lakh/ Rs 5.59 crore
 
 2015-16/1.33 lakh/ Rs 4.84 crore
 
 (Source- SCR, Nanded division)
 
