MAU: It is said that a man is known by enemies he keep. Altaf Ansari’s enemy, a man struggling to represent Mau Sadar assembly, is scary. On Saturday, it was for the second consecutive time   was in fray for Mau as Samajwadi Party candidate, against  , the dreaded don of UP.

 Around 8am, Chotteylal Khushwaha, who owns a commercial establishment at Bhithi Chowk was out to cast his vote and said “Absence of a BJP candidate has taken fun out of the poll battle and it will be a one-sided fight, though Altaf has a lot to improve on his past performance.” Lodged in judicial custody at Lucknow prison, Mukhtar won the seat four times with our without any party’s support and was hopeful of a fifth term on BSP’s ticket.
 
 As sun moved west, queues at polling stations in congested localities kept getting longer. Since 1980, pollsters in Mau city have been sending only Muslim MLAs to Vidhan Sabha Bhawan in Lucknow to raise their voice. In 1977, Ram Ji had won on a Janta Party ticket after Emergency ended. This time, two Ansaris are out to defeat each other.
 
 Owner of multiple handloom units, Altaf Ansari was seen outside a polling booth at Mirzahadipura at 11.30am. He had covered 11 polling stations by then. “Mukhtar fought for the party founded by his brother, Quami Ekta Dal and secured 70,131 votes in 2012. I came third with 54,069 votes. BSP candidate had secured 64,306 votes. But this time the equation has changed and people are with Akhilesh Yadav. Though BJP had been pitching about clamping Mukhtar Ansari, the party surprisingly did not field a candidate against him,” said Altaf, claiming he had better odds in the changed scenario.
 
 Has fighting it out with Muktar deterred him? “I have not felt insecure or been threatened. I know the background of my opponent and so do the voters. He was eyeing SP ticket but switched loyalties on being shown the exit door. He is not in a respectable position this time,” said unperturbed Altaf. A lot of voters said since Altaf is no threat for Mukhtar, he can say whatever he wants. “The verdict will be out on March 11 and he will see what people decided,” said Mangru Rajbhar, 30, waiting for his turn at Khwaja Jahanpur school. 
 
