NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor   has shot off a letter to chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal, countering the latter’s claim that the elected government was not kept in the loop over work done on removing   bottlenecks. The  , while appreciating the “full cooperation” offered by the CM to solve the problem, cites dates of meetings attended by PWD and urban development minister Satyendar Jain to drive home the point that the AAP government was not only kept informed but was also part of the process.

 “This statement about the elected government being kept in dark does not appear to be borne out as per facts,” a statement from the LG’s office said. “The LG expressed surprise that the CM and his ministers did not have any knowledge of the issue, despite so much work having been done in the last six months and that too with the minister (PWD and UD) attending meetings or being informed from time to time, and the issue itself getting so much of media coverage.” 
 
 Last Thursday, chief minister Kejriwal had written to Baijal, saying that he was entirely unaware that the latter had taken up the matter of traffic congestion in Delhi and was working with bureaucrats to address the situation.
 
 On Monday, the LG’s office issued a statement to inform that the LG had responded to the CM’s letter. “Last week, the LG taking cognisance of the media reports on July 5 that the CM had sought information on traffic bottlenecks from the chief secretary by August 15, had suo motu informed steps taken so far through a letter dated July 5, along with the list of 28 category-A priority corridors,” the statement from LG’s office read. 
 
 The LG has informed the CM that “the minutes of the very first meeting he chaired to review the submissions of the six task forces on March 28 were endorsed to the secretary to minister (transport)”. The statement further said the chief secretary had convened a meeting on May 3 wherein five pilot corridors were identified and an action plan was laid out for each of these.
 
 “Subsequent to this, the LG chaired another meeting on May 16 focusing especially on just two pilot corridors—corridor no. 1   (Aurobindo Marg to Andheria More) and corridor no. 3 Savitri Flyover (Chirag Dilli Crossing to Savitri Flyover). The minister (UD/PWD) not only attended this meeting but also gave useful suggestions,” the LG has informed.
 
