LUDHIANA: In separate cases, two   were thrashed by opponents while they were celebrating  . In one of the cases, a SAD leader has been booked.

 In the first incident, leader of SAD’s minority wing   and his supporters allegedly attacked  , 30, of Gulabi Bagh, Tibba Road, with sharp-edged weapons on Saturday.
 
 In his complaint to the police, Mohammad Shah Iqbal, brother of the injured, said they have been Congress supporters for long and on Saturday they were celebrating with a dhol and had planned to distribute laddoos in the evening. But before that, the accused trespassed into his house and thrashed his brother, who was alone at home. He was saved with the intervention of the neighbours, who rushed him to the civil hospital. He received head injury and eight stitches.
 
 Following the compliant of Mohammad Shah, Jodhewal police booked around 10 accused, including Bablu Kureshi, his nephew Sad Kureshi, Channu Kureshi, Goldy Ilahi, Itraaz Kureshi, Raja Kureshi – all residents of Gulabi Bagh -- and some unidentified persons under different sections of the IPC.
 
 Inquiry officer sub-inspector Swaran Singh said one of the accused, Raja Kureshi, has been arrested, while others were on the run. He said even the Kureshi family has filed a counter-complaint of thrashing on the same day, following which the Iqbal family has also been booked.
 
 In another incident, a worker of the Youth Congress, Ashok Kumar, 34, was beaten up by some miscreants while he was celebrating the victory of the party with his friends and other Congress supporters at his residence in Guru Angad Dev Nagar on Sunday evening.
 
 The inquiry officer from   station, sub-inspector Kulwinder Singh, said the injured was a supporter of the Youth Congress leader Mehtab Singh. The accused, who thrashed him and fled the spot, have been identified as Paramjit Singh, Hardial Singh, Gorkha, all residents of Lohara, and four others.
 
 Daba police said it was yet to be ascertained if the accused belonged to a particular political party. No arrests have been made so far.
 
