TRICHY: Released after 35 days of imprisonment for her  , a girl student of   in   has alleged that she suffered   at the   for over a month. She was one among the seven students from different colleges in Coimbatore and Salem arrested while proceeding to take part in the Neduvasal stir against the proposed hydrocarbon projects in the state. 

 M Valarmathi, one of the two girls who was released on bail on Saturday, alleged that she was stripped naked six times in the special prison for women. She also claimed that the prison authorities denied both of them napkins when they were menstruating. 
 
 The seven students had taken the Palakkad fast passenger train to reach Trichy for being part of the farmers' protest on April 15 at Neduvasal when Kulithalai police in Karur district detained and later arrested them. Police said they had been vocal about the farmers' agitations and the proposed hydrocarbon projects and were interacting with co-passengers about the subject.
 
 Lodged in the special prison for women, Valarmathi was carrying out a hunger strike against her isolation from other prisoners when she was produced before the Kulithalai judicial magistrate court who gave her bail on Friday. As soon as she was released on Saturday morning, she raised slogans against alleged police atrocities in the prison. 
 
 Speaking to the media outside the prison, she said that she was stripped naked over six times and beaten up by the police when she resisted it. She was kept in the high security cell for questioning her isolation from other prisoners. "I was denied even napkins when I was menstruating," said the student. "FIR was registered against them on suspected links with Maoist elements," said their advocate S Raja who asked how the students could be branded Maoist for mere possession of percussion instruments. 
 
 However, the superintendent of special prison for women in Trichy, Komala, rejected her charges and said that only norms were followed. On disrobing Valarmathi, she said that she was frisked whenever she went out of the prison to court and came back. On charges of her being denied sanitary napkins, Komala said they could not give napkins when they ran out of stock and there was no other reason. D Swathi, the other girl student, is slated to be released on Tuesday. 
 
 
