Panaji: As the strokes of   Navelcar’s paintbrush waltzed on the canvas, so did the attentive gaze of spectators who watched him. Abstract paintings that would take regular artists days to finish took the veteran a matter of minutes, leaving everyone spellbound.

 While he has many works to his credit, it is his painting of Portuguese poet, Fernando Pessoa, that he intends to gift the Portugal Prime Minister, Antonio Costa on the 30th anniversary celebrations of the Lisbon-based Casa de Goa. This was announced at the Great Goan Art Festival, an event celebrating Navelcar’s immense contribution to the world of art.
 
 “I am honoured to see so many young people at the festival. It reminds me of my days in Mozambique, where I taught art to youngsters in school,” he said.
 
 Visitors from far and wide attended the event on Monday to catch a glimpse of Navelcar, an otherwise reclusive artist.
 
 “He is the M F Hussain of Goa, a status he should’ve been given years ago,” Rupali Phaldesai, a Panaji-based artist, said.
 
  Sachin Madhge of Mapusa prepared a sculpture of Navelcar’s bust at the festival venue, while the artist patiently posed for him. “He is a great artist and to make something for him makes me feel fortunate,” he said.
 
 Some attendees also shared precious memories of the artist. Maria and George Piedade shared pictures of their wedding that Navelcar had attended 39 years ago. Navelcar had gifted one of his works to them.
 
 Artist, Suhas Shilkar said he was inspired, as a young boy, by Navelcar when he saw his paintings based on Rabindranath Tagore’s poems. “Soon after that, I got in touch with him and we’ve been friends ever since,” he said.
 
 Attendees were seen painting on glass, fibre and canvas at the festival. Clarice Vaz used syringes to paint a map of Goa while Maria Simona Noronha drew a typical Goan tinto.
 
 Navelcar himself painted abstract images of Jesus Christ, a recurring motif in his artworks. Ten limited edition copies of his biography penned by Anne Ketterigham, each containing a different sketch by the artist went up for sale at the festival.
 
 
