LUCKNOW: Besides being juicier and sweeter, mangoes this year would also be ample.   in cities would be making the finest variety of the fruit available at a fixed and fair price. The outlets will be opened in all districts, including 17 mango producing districts of the state. Some long lost ‘desi’ varieties of mangoes, which are otherwise not available in the market as they are grown only for personal consumption by growers and are no longer commercially feasible to grow might also be found at these shops.

 The outlets will be set up by Mandi Parishad and department of horticulture, while co-operative marketing societies would be involved in the first of its kind move by the state government for marketing mangoes in the state.
 
 “UP is set for production of about 45 lakh metric tonnes mango this season despite flowering in mango orchards not being very encouraging,” said director, state horticulture, S P Joshi. 
 
 The idea behind setting up the outlets is to promote mango varieties among people. “We will also hold buyer-seller meet to send our mangoes to other states where mango season would be over by the time our varieties reach the market,” said the official.
 
 UP has 2.63lakh hectare area under mango production. Mango cultivation is concentrated in two belts—northern belt comprising Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Baghpat, Meerut, Jyotiba Phule Nagar and Bulandshahr and the central belt comprising Hardoi, Sitapur, Barabanki, Lucknow, Unnao, Pratapgarh, Varanasi and Faizabad. 
 
 Lucknow's Maal-Malihabad-Kakori belt spreads over 30,000 to 35,000 hectare and is the hub of ‘Dussehri’. Other popular mango varieties of UP are chausa, langda, safeda and Lakhnauva safeda.
 
 Mango tree bears good crop every alternate year. Malihabad, for this reason, may not have ample fruit this time but Kakori will. Overall rise in temperature at an early stage of the fruit would help.
 
 “The temperature at present is what we experienced in May last year and after flowering, small, rounded fruit is set in orchards,” said mango orchard owner in Malihabad, Naseeb Khan.
 
 
