CHANDIGARH: Having struggled hard to get land under special rules meant for families of  , Jasbir Kaur, wife of Major Kanwaljit Singh who has been missing since the   and was declared a martyr by the Centre, will finally get the payment in lieu of 10 acres of cultivable land at collector rate from the  .

 Earlier, the Punjab government had allotted her 10 acres of barren land across the fence on the international border with Pakistan. On her objection, she was again offered a piece of land, which was already encroached upon.
 
 Finally, the   on Tuesday directed the state of Punjab to release within two months the payment in lieu of 10 acres of cultivable land.She would be given the payment at the rate of Rs 5 lakh per acre.
 
 The HC has also made it clear that in case the requisite amount is not paid to her within given time, she may revive her application to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the erring officials.
 
 On May 19, 2015, a division bench of HC had directed the Punjab government to allot 10 acres of cultivable land to her as per the policy or pay her price of 10 acres of cultivable land by taking average of collector rate of cultivable land all over Punjab as an alternative.
 
 The state, however, allot ted her completely non-cultivable and inaccessible land across the BSF post on international border near Amritsar. When she filed a contempt petition alleging that non-cultivable and inaccessible land had been allotted to her, the state allotted her a piece of land in Khusupur village, Tarn Taran, which was found to be encroached upon by 25 families.
 
 Major Kanwaljit is belie ved to have been captured from Hussainiwala sector on December 3, 1971, during the Indo-Pak War. He was also an awardee of Shaurya Chakra -country's third highest gallantry award, for repelling a grenade attack by the Pakistani soldiers. He was badly injured in the process.
 
 On February 3, 1972, the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had written to Jasbir Kaur observing, “The entire country is with you in your hour of shock and grief and crores of Indian brothers were indebted to Major Kanwaljit Singh, who sacrificed his life for the defense of the nation.“
 
 
 
 
 The state government had earlier allotted Jasbir Kaur non-cultivable and inaccessible land across the BSF post on international border near Amritsar. When she filed a contempt petition over the quality of land, the state allotted her another land in Tarn Taran village, which was found to be encroached upon by 25 families
 
