When she completed a 10k   last year, all eyes were on  , for here was a feisty quadruple   who breezed through the race (although she had told one reporter then that she wasn’t too happy with the time). Her journey from a healthy mother-to-be at the age of 32 to falling prey to an illness that resulted in her losing her limbs (and her baby), to grabbing life by the horns and truly living each day to the fullest, put her in the spotlight, with her story being shared on many sites. She is an inspiration to many and her life is an example of endurance and sheer grit. But still, people are surprised that she can lead a ‘normal’ life, smile and have fun in spite of her condition.
 
  PEOPLE DON’T EXPECT ME TO BE HAPPY
  The 37-year-old deputy general manager at a BPO has shattered all clichés surrounding differently-abled people. “People don’t expect me to be happy and have a good time. I had gone to a nightclub recently with friends and was having a good laugh. The next day, I got a message on Facebook from someone who was at the same venue, who told me that at first she felt sad looking at me, but her perspective changed after she saw me having a good time,” Shalini says, adding that India doesn’t make it conducive for differently-abled people to get out. “People expect you to be sad, sit at home all the time and not have a life. They believe that you deserve something like this due to bad karma. There is a lot of stigma attached to disability. People are surprised that I am still married, since the expectation is that my husband should have walked out on me and found someone to take care of him. As a society, there is a lot that needs to change.”
  
  OF UNLIKELY THERAPIES AND BEING AN INSPIRATION
  After battling her illness, Shalini took to writing a blog, which she describes as therapeutic. “It took me two years to begin writing, because that was when I could make peace with what had happened to me. My posts are not about me talking about this awful thing that happened to me and how my life has ended. They are peppered with humour. People don’t understand what you go through, and they need to be sensitive, and I think that my blog helps with that.” Although she doesn’t like to see herself as much of an inspirational speaker, Shalini likes meeting college and schoolchildren, as she feels that it is important to reach out to them. “It is great visiting schools because it’s a great opportunity to meet and talk to kids, and open up their world to disability. That’s the generation that will bring about change. Also, kids these days go through a lot of unnecessary stress and trauma, and I feel that someone like me can provide a little perspective,” she says.
  
  CARPE DIEM
  After her life took at 360-degree turn in 2012, Shalini has let the universe take her where it chooses. Her goal is to be happy and live in the moment, which is something that is hard for most people to do. “It’s easier for me when compared to someone who hasn’t been through trauma. I believe that there is nothing worse that can happen to me; whatever happens will be nothing compared to what I have already been through. It can only be all roses and lilies hereon. People are conditioned to think that a good job, house, money and cars are important, but when you are at your shi*tiest, those things don’t come to save you at all. You realize that what really makes you happy are the people that you have around you. Smell the roses today and be happy right now. If you want to go on a trip, do it now.”
  
  YOU ARE BEAUTIFUL THE WAY YOU ARE
  Another cause that Shalini is passionate about is how women look at themselves, given that there is some many images in the media about what a woman’s body should look like. “We are bombarded with touched-up pictures of model who starve themselves to death. We are looking at the mirror and constantly demeaning ourselves. After my illness, I hated how I looked. For the first 6-8 months, I would cover myself up a lot; I never wore sleeveless tops and did not want any attention. It had to go through a journey to get comfortable with my body. You have to believe that you are beautiful the way you are.” She cites the example of a young girl who had polio in one leg, who mustered up the courage to wear a skirt after she saw that despite her condition, Shalini was dressed in the clothes she liked, the world be damned. 
