HISAR: Apart from thousands of security personnel from the state police and Central Armed Police Forces, Army troops and military choppers were on standby to meet any eventuality during the Jat protest on ‘Balidan Diwas’ on Sunday.

 The state government had earmarked sites in every district for helipad, which could have been used by military helicopters in case of any urgency. Sources revealed that several columns of Army from four major cantonments — Ambala, Delhi, Chandimandir and Hisar — were on standby during the protest. Troops from the Western Command may be deployed in Panipat, Karnal, Sonipat, Rohtak and Kaithal, while personnel from   have been alerted for deployment in Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and other southern parts of the state.
 
 While Chandimandir, Delhi and Ambala come under Western Command, Hisar cantonment comes under South-Western Command. The commanding officers of local Army formations were provided with the satellite images/maps of the sensitive areas, where they could have been asked to take position in case of any eventuality, sources added.
 
 “After receiving requirements from civil administration, the army columns were assigned the task to meet any eventuality in the state. Our troops were ready in military cantonments and would move out immediately to take position in their assigned area. Fortunately, no emergency situation arose,” a senior officer of Western Command confirmed to TOI.
 
 Unlike February 2016 agitation, when delay in deployment of Army had led to huge loss to lives and property, this time the state government had sent requisition to the Army authorities in advance. The delay in coordination, the Army had to slither down its troops via helicopters in Rohtak, as the situation turned volatile due to blockage of roads last year. The troops had to face problem of logistics in carrying out flag marches to control the unruly mob in February last year.
 
 Around 5,000 Army personnel, including 26 columns (one columns consists around 80 soldiers) from the Western Command and 33 columns from the South-Western Command, were deployed mainly in eight districts last year from February 20, 2016, till the peace was restored.
 
 
 
 
 — To safeguard the valuable assets, in case situation turns volatile
 
 — To defuse tension by putting psychological pressure through flag marches
 
 — To ensure supply of essential commodities is not cut to Delhi
 
 — To ensure safety of strategically important highways/roads
 
 
