NAGPUR: Even as Prime Minister   has directed to take strictest action against guilty railway officials, a senior divisional medical officer (SrDMO) with Central Railway, who declared a live patient dead, has been extended an olive branch.

 In a complaint to Railway Board chairman AK Mittal, Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK) has drawn attention that instead of taking action against SrDMO Dr VV Londhekar, she has been posted back at Central Railway Hospital, Nagpur.
 
 Chief medical director (CMD) Dr Shyam Sunder, who is boss of all the hospitals under Central Railway, and posted Dr Londhekar in Nagpur again, was elusive. He did not respond to TOI calls nor did he replied to an SMS.
 
 Dr Londhekar, who is in Pune, refused to comment on the issue. “I don’t want to discuss the issue. You can speak to CMS,” she said.
 
 On August 20, 2015, Dr Londhekar, who was nominated for train call duties that day, had declared dead a woman patient found at railway station. The doctor also issued a death certificate.
 
 However, while conducting panchnama, Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel found the woman alive. They immediately shifted the patient to   and Hospital (IGGMC). The chief medical superintendent (CMS) had sought explanation from Dr Londhekar for the serious lapse.
 
 Basant Shukla, general secretary of BYK, took the issue seriously and followed it up by seeking information under the   Act. RTI query revealed that instead of taking strong action, the   was let off by a warning letter for her casual approach.
 
 After BYK’s pursuance, Dr Londhekar was transferred to Bhusawal division after 10 months on June 27, 2016. “However, recently when we learnt that the woman doctor has joined duties at Nagpur, we were surprised. RTI information revealed that she never joined at Bhusawal,” Shukla said.
 
 According to top sources, Dr Londhekar had applied for VRS after the blunder. However, before her VRS application could be processed, her transfer order for Bhusawal was issued.
 
 “It became a conditional VR situation. Hence, the woman doctor approached the CMD’s office and admitted her mistake and also assured that such mistake would not be committed again. On humanitarian grounds, she was again posted at Nagpur,” sources told TOI.
 
 However, Shukla alleged rules were bent for Dr Londhekar. “In such serious cases, a doctor’s registration can also be cancelled. Besides, the doctor can also be demoted. Why the Central Railway did not ask her to join at Bhusawal?” Shukla asked.
 
