GURUGRAM: Four cops have been suspended for allegedly consuming   crime unit office at around 10pm Saturday night, while on duty. these cops were busy partying while notorious   and two of his accomplices,  , were in the lock-up of the same office. 

 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar has also ordered a departmental inquiry against the cops.
 
 The four constables were sitting together with a bottle of liquor and four glasses in a room adjoining the lock up when Udyog Vihar ACP Sumer Singh conducted a surprise check and caught them red-handed.
 
 Furious at the cops when he found out that the three dreaded criminals, who had been taken on production warrant on Saturday, were inside the lockup, the ACP rushed the errant constables to Civil Hospital for medical examination.
 
 Commissioner Khirwar wasted no time recommending suspension and departmental inquiry against the cops, identified as constables Jaiveer, Devender, Ankur and Khoobram. “This kind of attitude is unacceptable from any cop. We’ll ensure this is never repeated,” said Khirwar.
 
 Soon after, DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar issued strict instructions to all crime units. “Such callousness is unacceptable. I’ve warned all heads of crime units that if someone from the crime units is found drinking or inebriated while on duty, strict action will be taken,” said Kuhar.
 
 Gangster   (50) is accused of involvement in many heinous crimes. He was lodged in Bhondsi jail with his associates. Palam Vihar police took Mahal and his accomplices on production warrant for questioning in connection with one of these cases. Sources said at the time the four cops were found drinking, three other cops were on duty at the same office. One was on desk, another in the room with him, while the third was with patrolling staff. It was the perfect opportunity for Mahal to escape.
 
 The gangster is a resident of village Maitron in Najafgarh. He is allegedly the mastermind behind the killing of ex-MLA Bharat Singh. Mahal has also been named in two dozen other cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and Arms Act.
 
