NEW DELHI:   Governor   on Tuesday defended her decision to invite the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to form government in the state and said that the party has the requisite numbers.

 "I know   is the single largest party, but it's not incumbent. It is the responsibility of the Governor, vested by the Constitution, to weigh and measure stability," Heptulla said, adding, "BJP has more than 30 in the House of 60 members. And a stable government will definitely be helpful for Manipur."
 
 On being asked about the objections raised by the Congress, she said, "Ruling of Supreme Court says it's the responsibility of Governor is to see who has majority and will work for state's stability."
 
 She also hinted that the BJP-led government in the state will be called for floor test to prove majority as soon as possible.
 
 However, the Congress has strongly objected the Governor's decision to invite BJP to form government in north-east state of Manipur .
 
 "Congress wrote on 12th of March, with a letter from the President of National People's Party (NPP) that they have the numbers to form the government," Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said.
 
 Singhvi hit out at the Centre and said, "BJP is becoming expert in creating government through Governors. Government creation is done by the people."
 
 "Sarkaria Commission clearly for the process to work it out, the sequence must be to call the single largest party," he added.
 
 Countering the allegations, Heptulla said, "In my 37 years in Parliament and when I was in Congress and worked with non-Congress governments, never have such allegations been put on me. I'm a straightforward person and go by the book."
 
 She also said it was her duty to choose a government that could help state progress.
 
 "Manipur requires a lot of development... a lot can be done. I expect the government which will be chosen tomorrow (on Wednesday), continue the work," Heptulla said.
 
 The swearing in ceremony will take place at Raj Bhavan at 1 pm on Wednesday.
 
 Earlier, four legislators from the Naga People's Front (NPF) met Heptulla and extended their support to the BJP. Apart from them, four National People's Party (NPP) MLAs also extended their support to the saffron party.
 
 The BJP has claimed the support of 32 MLAs in the 60-member assembly.
 
 A BJP delegation had met the Governor on Sunday with 21 party MLAs besides four of NPP, and one legislator each of LJP, TMC and Congress.
 
 The BJP had also claimed the support of the NPF and submitted a letter from the NPF president pledging the party's support to form the government.
 
 Raj Bhavan sources said the Governor wanted to meet the NPF MLAs personally to ascertain whether they backed the BJP in forming the government.
 
 After Goa, Manipur would be the second state among the five where elections were held recently where the BJP would form a government despite not being the single largest party by cobbling together a post-poll alliance.
 
 Congress, which has 28 MLAs, led the tally. Okram Ibobi Singh, its Chief Minister for three consecutive terms, had resigned and staked claim to form the government, but numbers were on BJP's side.
 
 
 
 
