PATNA: When women autorickshaw drivers first hit the roads in Patna, they seemed to become a symbol of women empowerment in the state. Numbers, however, have slowly dwindled from 50 in 2013 and 150 in 2016 training sessions to just 10   in Patna.

 Thirty-three year old Kanchan Kumari is from the first batch of women auto drivers who had gained a licence for driving an autorickshaw in 2013. Kanchan, who has been driving a pre-paid autorickshaw from   for the past four years, said things have changed along with their hope. 
 
 “We were promised a lot many things, but the government has failed to come through. I feel beaten and defeated at times. However, as I am the lone bread earner for my family, I cannot give up,” she said. Kanchan is a widow who supports her three daughters studying in Class IV, V and VII, respectively. “I work from 6am to 6pm and earn something around Rs 400 to Rs 500 per day. It is still a very hectic schedule as I have to do the household chores as well,” she added.
 
 The women autorickshaw drivers had been promised that they would get back 50% of the bank loan which they had taken to buy the autorickshaw. Kanchan, however, said she paid off all the loan herself. “We are yet to receive road permit from regional transport authority. The   had assured us last year that he would look into our problems, but nothing has been done so far. The women who had received training in 2016 were asked to drive e-rickshaws, but nothing came out of that statement either. I had thought of putting my autorickshaw up for rent so that another, but nobody wants to touch the vehicle without a permit,” she rued.
 
 Rinki Devi drives a pre-paid auto from Patna Junction to all over the city. Her husband doesn’t work and she is the only one left to support the family which consists of her three young daughters. “I had a hysterectomy last December, but went to work just after one month instead of the three-month rest prescribed by the doctor,” she said.
 
 Sarita Pandey, another driver from the first batch, said, “I had trained 150 more women drivers last year on the request of Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. Their licences were made and they were promised permit and bank loan, but the banks didn’t cooperate and the government also failed to address the issue. The drivers are now just sitting at home with their licences.”
 
 Two of the women from 2016 batch of trainees – Rekha Devi and Sangita Devi – had to sell their jewelleries to buy an autorickshaw. However, they too are a worried lot due to lack of permit.
 
 
