GURUGRAM: Colour (Holi) or light (Diwali) can never leave one’s life, and there should be plenty of both on the other 363 days of the year. And four days on from Holi, there will be reason to celebrate – especially for folks who can’t stop digging the music of one of the biggest rock acts of the 1980s.

 Unfortunately, it’s not going to be the real thing (as those on social media found out, much to their disappointment), but don’t let that put you off. Part-timers of an outfit once fronted by Mark Knopfler will be in town this week to play a show for charity (to provide sustainable drinking water to villagers in Rajasthan), but minus the big names we’ve come to associate with the million-selling 1980s group. 
 
 Headed this way are occasional ‘Straits’ members   ( ) and   (drums). The duo is here as part of ‘The   Experience’, who (we’ve been reliably told) will be playing all those memorable hits that provided many a life the soundtrack to the so-what-if-it-was-bad-we-still-had-a-lot-of-fun decade.
 
 Dire Straits released just six studio albums across 12 years and three decades, but ‘once upon a time in the (past)’, they filled stadiums around the world like nobody’s business. These ‘sultans’ of straight-up rock (served neat and without ice) could certainly ‘swing’. Back then, J J Cale-like shuffling grooves (and grooving shuffles) mixed with moody blues, braggadocio-filled rockers swapped space with stories that found a sweet spot (lyrically and musically), and tales of melancholy-tinged reflection blended easily with droll cameos on life. 
 
 And while Mark Knopfler may be ‘so far away’ from Gurgaon – probably at work on his next set of narratives set to music – his storytelling knack and Fender tones will be very much in spirit ‘on the night’.
 
 The love affair with the ‘Straits’ wasn’t exactly ‘Romeo and Juliet’, but there are some old flames that never stop burning bright. Expect some ‘heavy fuel’ rock, and an evening of unapologetic nostalgia. The Dire Straits Experience will be playing in Gurgaon on March 17, as part of the 100 Pipers ‘Play for a Cause’ (tickets available on bookmyshow.com).
 
 
