Mumbai: The negative effects of demonetisation are clearly behind for leading consumer goods major   ( ), which reported a 4% jump in volume growth during the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2017, as compared with a 4% dip in volumes in the previous sequential quarter. 

 Exceeding expectations, HUL posted a 6% rise in net   at Rs 1,183 crore in the last quarter of fiscal 2016-17 from Rs 1,114 crore in the corresponding quarter of FY 2015-16. The increase came on the back of 6.4% growth in total income to Rs 8,969 crore (from Rs 8,430 crore). This was largely aided by stabilisation of input costs, a broad-based growth across categories and ‘premiumisation’, which led to a growth rebound in personal care — a category that contributes 46% to the company’s sales.
 
 The company said consumer sentiment has improved and input costs remain stable in the near term. However, wholesale trade of HUL, which covers 9 million outlets, has not yet reverted back to normalcy after demonetisation. Sanjiv Mehta, MD & CEO, HUL, said, “There will be a channel resetting and we believe the contribution of wholesale would come down. With   coming in, we believe wholesale would be impacted, once again, more than other channels. He said it will take a couple of quarters post GST for wholesale to stabilize.”
 
 In the short term trade pipelines, too, are likely to thin down after GST, and the impact will be across channels. P B Balaji, CFO, HUL, said the net benefits on taxation following the implementation of GST would be passed on to consumers. Balaji said this was the sixth consecutive year of profitable improvement for HUL. Harish Manwani, chairman, HUL, said, “In a challenging year, we delivered a resilient performance by managing our business dynamically and responding with agility to the changing external environment. With gradual improvement in market conditions, we remain optimistic about the medium-term outlook for our sector.”During the quarter, the company’s domestic consumer business grew by 8% and operating margins expanded by 90 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point).
 
 In fabric wash, growth was driven by the premium segment as Surf sustained its volume-led growth momentum. Personal wash performance improved in the quarter as prices and input costs stabilised. Skin care growth was driven by the relaunch of Fair & Lovely, while hair care delivered broad-based, double-digit growth. In oral care, however, the performance was subdued. The company is hopeful Lever Ayush could bring back growth in oral care. While tea sustained a broad-based double-digit growth, packaged foods, too, grew modestly due to strong comparators in the previous year. To counter growing competition in the ‘naturals’ space, the company has launched a new skin care brand called Citra.
 
 
