NEW DELHI:   returned to the capital on Sunday night when   with automatic weapons at a marketplace in Miawali Nagar, west Delhi, gunning down an alleged gangster, his friend and a policeman deputed to guard him.

 The killings come two days after an undertrial was shot dead at the Rohini courts, allegedly by a rival gang.
 
 The shooting took place at 11pm, when Monu Dariyapur alias Bhupender, an alleged gangster with eight cases, was eating and drinking in his car with two of his friends and two personal security guards from Delhi police.
 
 Monu and one of his friends, Arun, died in the car that was riddled with over two dozen bullets. The assassins shot ASI Vijay Kumar, one of the PSOs, as he was trying to escape and then surrounded him and pumped in more bullets from close range. Another cop who was inside the same car was in jured as well.
 
 The police chief has transferred the case to the special cell. No arrests have been made yet but rival gangsters Sonu Dariyapur and Samunder Khatri have emerged as prime suspects, sources said. The two are wanted in several cases of extortion, murder and attempted murders. The bullet-riddled car, which had a temporary number plate, had a newly purchased book on its back seat and a couple of more books lying on the floor. A liquor bottle and a glass filled with alcohol were on the front seat.
 
 Witnesses said the shooting was over before they could react. “As I was shutting my shop, a few men on black bikes stopped in front of a white car that was parked at the turn and started firing indiscriminately at the men who were sitting in front. I was shell-shocked.Without wasting a moment, me and one of my friends, who op erates a vegetable stall nearby , ran for our lives. There was nothing we could do to stop them. We saw two men bleed to death in front of us,“ said a 15year-old vendor, Nirmal.
 
 “We also saw two men getting off the car and trying to escape. We could hear bullets being fired non-stop but we didn't stop. We ran and hid in a house.The incident has left me shaken and I won't ever be able to forget how close I was to death,“ said another man who had recently put up a chips stall in the area.
 
 Most stalls owners at the market were so terrified by the murders that they didn't open their shops on Monday . Locals said the shopkeepers plan to keep their shutters down until they are assured of security .
 
 DCP (outer) M N Tiwari said an FIR under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 2527 (Arms Act) and 34 (common intention) has been registered. Raids are being conducted in Bahadurgarh, Kanjhawala, Jhajjar and parts of Delhi, UP and Haryana.
 
 
