On the first day of the new session at  , PGDAV College in south Delhi had him as the celebrity guest. Such is Manveer Gurjar’s popularity right now that he was the centre of attention at the event. The 27-year-old admits that sometimes he is taken aback by the sudden change in his life. "There are times when I can’t believe that all this has happened and that too, so quickly. I got this opportunity, grabbed it, and it worked for me. Call it luck or hard work but it just clicked. It took a long while to sink in," says Manveer.

  
 We spoke to Manveer on one of his rare visits to Noida. He currently lives in Mumbai and only returns home for a few days every few months. His visits to his house in Noida's Agahpur Village are almost always a closely-guarded secret. Manveer elaborates, "Apne ghar bhi ab chhup-chhup kar jaana padhta hai. When I’m in Noida, I reach my house after dark, stay the night and right at dawn, go to a friend’s farmhouse."
 
  
    at Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal and Green Garden, Noida (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  Manveer adds, "That’s because, even today, fans crowd outside the house, which disrupts my family members. The way we are talking right now, I can only do that in a hotel. Ghar pe jao toh bheed hoti hai. If you don’t tell anyone and then reach, they say isme   jeet kar attitude aa gaya hai."
 
 Although he loves the fans' attention, Manveer does rue that he misses out on hanging out with his friends and going to some of his favourite Noida joints. "Earlier, I would be out with friends on my bike, hang out at GIP or Spice Mall or take a car on the Expressway. I cannot do all that now. It’s surprising, but I had never thought that people would still mob around for me this long after 'Bigg Boss'. But, I guess logon ka pyaar hai. And that is something typical to Delhi-Noida. In Mumbai, when I go out, fans come and say hi, shake hands, and leave. Yahan alag hi junoon hota hai and when there is a huge crowd, even I hesitate. I'm still not used to that. I know some might take it otherwise, but I urge the fans to take some time and maybe give me some too," he says.
 
  
  
 
  
 Another thing that he says he is getting used to is the media attention on his personal life. Manveer says the link-ups and controversies affect his family members, but he is becoming immune to them now. He tells us, "I had the same personal life even before 'Bigg Boss', but nobody said anything. Because it didn't matter. Even when I was inside the house, people didn't say anything. But a day after I won, everybody found bad things from my past. Jab aadmi upar uth kar aata hai toh sab ko galti dikhne lagti hai. Now, I live in Mumbai so they link me with someone or the other every few days. Family ko bura lagta hai. But I have come to understand that this is life. You have to be aware of what the industry is and I guess I'm learning that."
 
  
  
 
  But Manveer does not want to hold anything against the fans. He says, "Whatever I am is because of fans' love, so I can never have anything against them. But after 'Bigg Boss', when all the controversies were happening, nobody gave me the time to respond. Everyone wanted me to meet them, click pictures with them, talk to them. Honestly, I wanted that too, but it was physically impossible to accommodate everyone. Nobody had the patience. With such exertion and police cases, I fell ill. Everyone assumed Manveer is avoiding them. Kisi ne mauka hi nahi diya explain karne ka."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
