They make   look absolutely cool and their camaraderie is hard to miss. In the city recently for a performance, British acapella group The Magnets, comprising Callum McIntosh, Duncan Sandilands, James Gibbs, Matthew McCabe, Ballzee and Michael Conway, tell 
  why they are in love with India and why they are more than just men singing in harmony…

 
 
 “The Magnets were formed way back in 1995 and the original lineup was fantastic. Back then, acapella was really big in America and the group slowly started to build from that and later signed up with record label EMI. In the late 90s, they also did a talent show on television and it sort of rolled on from there. The band turned professional in 2000 with a record deal. However, we now have a fresher lineup. I used to be the young boy, but now am the oldest,” laughs Callum. Ask them about why the band was named ‘The Magnets’, and they break in a laugh. “I think they (the original lineup) thought it will be like drawing people to them with their performance,” adds Callum.
 
 
 
 Though the group is all about acapella, beat boxing also is an integral part of The Magnets. “Acapella, though not necessarily traditionally, has beat boxing in it nowadays. The level of beat boxing is so high that acapella groups are getting people like me and other talents in the world as their beat boxing makes the sounds fuller,” says Ballzee. Ask them about how they go about choosing songs to perform and Callum says, “Normally, we see what the guys would like to sing and they come up with suggestions about songs that they would like to try out and we work around that.”
 
 
 
 The group agrees that after shows like   and movies like Pitch Perfect were made, acapella became more popular. “It started with Glee and the Pitch Perfect movies promoted acapella further. But back in 2000, when The Magnets performed, there were no acapella bands in the pop scene and now it’s beginning to get there. It’s great to see so many upcoming bands as well,” says Callum.
 
 
 
 The Magnets also performed at the Buckingham Palace for the Queen’s jubilee, where they shared the stage with other well-known artistes. “We got to share the stage with so many artistes. That was with the previous lineup though. We performed with so many artistes like Bryan Adams, Tom Jones and with Natalie Di Luccio. We are really lucky to have performed with such artistes,” says Callum.
 
 
 
 Ask them about their thoughts on   music, and the group breaks into a discussion. “Bollywood   is absolutely great. AR Rahman’s work is fantastic. Besides, Bollywood music is so colourful and the music itself is so great,” says Callum. “I did beat boxing for a Bollywood movie once, though I do not remember the name of the film right now,” says Ballzee.
 
 
 
 Michael says that the hospitality and the food in India has been absolutely amazing. “It’s my first time in India and I have to say that the people have been so nice and everything has been amazing. We have been treated like kings.” While performing in different cities has been their top priority, the members of the group did indulge in some local delicacies. “The first day we had a vegetarian thali and it was absolutely brilliant. However, next time we go to Mumbai, we will go to a seafood restaurant,” says Ballzee.
 
