BENGALURU: The pitch at the M Chinnaswamy stadium has been the focal point in the run-up to India's second Test against Australia, thanks to the rank turner in Pune last week. It has shifted the focus away a little from   and his men, who fell to a 333-run defeat in the first Test.

 All the pitch talk has given Kohli and his men time to ponder what went wrong. Coach   called it a collective failure. The players will probably realize it was all a bunch of rookie mistakes. What the loss did though was to take the gloss off India's 19-match winning streak.
 
 India will be smarting from the Pune humiliation and the Australians will be wary of a backlash when the two square off in the second game of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy on Saturday. But Steve Smith and his men have the comfort of a win behind them and will go into the clash knowing that they can go toe-to-toe with the Indians even in conditions where the odds seem to be stacked against them. It is no surprise that they have named an unchanged eleven. Numbers at this venue favour them too ­ they have won two and lost just one of five Tests here.
 
 Kohli, while divulging little of the team combination, dropped hints that there could be changes. This is hardly surprising, considering India haven't played the same XI for two Tests in a row since Kohli took over, largely due to injuries and occasionally due to their horses-for-courses policy. There is an injury concern this time too as Hardik Pandya has been ruled out due a niggle.
 
 While the batting order may not be up for much tinkering, the bowling combination could change with   likely to replace fellow pacer Ishant Sharma, provided India stick to the five-bowler theory.
 
 The playing XI apart, there will be plenty on the minds of the Indian think-tank. For one, the opening pair of   and KL Rahul hasn't been able to weigh in together. In fact, their last four stands read 26, 10, 2 and 12. However, the Test will mark personal milestones for both. While Vijay is set to make his 50th Test appearance, Rahul will be a playing a Test at his 'cricketing hometown' for the first time. He has a double hundred in Ranji here a couple of years ago.
 
 Another established name who will look to overcome his inconsistency while facing the turning ball will be Ajinkya Rahane, who hasn't justified his potential at home, having made just one half-century in his last 10 innings. With an enviable average of 76.18 in his last 10 Tests, Kohli will lead the batting unit.
 
 Another rough edge that needs to be addressed is the catching. India dropped five chances in Pune, including centurion Smith thrice in the second innings. In bowling, the spin duo of R Ashwin and   will again be called upon to shoulder the responsibility on the predicted slow turner while Umesh Yadav will lead the pace attack.
 
 Australia will hope for their new fear factor ­ left-arm spinner Steve O'Keefe - to fire alongside pace ace Mitchell Starc. In the batting department, Smith will look for more from the seasoned   as well as exciting newcomers Matt Renshaw and  .
 
 With the pitch shorn off grass and cracks visible, expect a cracking contest.
 
 
