PUNE: The Pune district administration is in the process of appointing a temporary chief officer (CO) for the Alandi Municipal Council ( ), given that the current chief officer has been untraceable ever since a cheating case was filed against him by the   police station last week. 

 The CO, Santosh Ramchandra Tengle, had taken charge of the AMC in June last year. He had previously served as the CO of the   ( ).
 
 Pankaj Deshmukh, superintendent of police of Osmanabad district, told TOI, "During Tengle's tenure, a Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) inquiry was instituted against him, his clerk and 18 members of the TMC for allegedly misusing government funds to the tune of Rs 1.67 crore. The SDM recently submitted its inquiry report, on the basis of which an FIR was filed under relevant sections of IPC, 1860." 
 
 On Tuesday, the police team from Tuljapur police station had come to Alandi to arrest Tengle. However, Tengle had left his residence along with his wife and children.
 
 "Tengle's exact role in this case is yet to be ascertained," Deshmukh added. Interestingly, the administration had received a leave application from Tengle on Thursday. 
 
 A senior official from the Pune district administration told TOI, "We got his (Tengle) leave application on Thursday. We do not know how he sent it to us." 
 
 Meanwhile, members of the AMC and residents of Alandi have complained that the functioning of the AMC has been affected by these developments. 
 
 AMC president Vijayanta Umargekar said, "Several decisions can't be taken without the CO's approval. The district administration should appoint the new CO at the earliest so that people do not suffer any further."
 
 The AMC is responsible for administration of the pilgrim destination, which receives thousands of devotees every day. 
 
 Vilas  , a local resident, said, "From the beginning, the CO's tenure has been controversial, particularly during the annual town fair. The AMC has failed to solve basic issues like road construction, garbage collection, pure water supply." 
 
