Mohali: Farmers protesting against the Punjab government for the non-purchase of potatoes threw the tuber on the road at Dolphin crossing near Yadavindra Public School (YPS) in Mohali on Tuesday, turning the road slippery and causing accidents.

 Around 20 two-wheeler riders lost control over their vehicles and fell down. Three of them sustained injuries. The injured are Rajinder Kaur, a resident of Phase XI, Blossom Singh, a resident of Ropar and Gurcharan Singh. Rajinder Kaur sustained injuries on her forehead near the right eye and right hand, while Blossom and Gurcharan injured their hand, foot and elbows. Many others too fell down but escaped without injuries luckily.
 
 The protest was led by Naresh Tikait, national president, BKU, and Ajmer Singh Lakhhowal, state president. They brought a tractor trolley filled with potatoes at Dolphin crossing and also garlanded each other with potatoes.
 
 Takait said the government was not paying adequate rates of potatoes. “This is unjust on part of the Punjab government. They have not paid adequate rate for the potatoes and also have not released the enhanced rates of sugarcane. We are holding our protest in support of thousands of farmers of Punjab,” he added. BKU activists were protesting on the Chandigarh-Mohali borders from past two days blocking the road leading to Chandigarh from the YPS crossing.
 
 The police later in the afternoon removed the protesting farmers by detaining them and dropping them out of Mohali district. Police said they had made them board police buses and hundreds of farmers have been removed from the protest site, resuming the traffic flow.
 
 BOX
 
 Poor make a day from thrown potatoes
 
 The protest turned into a blessing in disguise for the poor as some of them collected thrown potatoes. Meena along with her sister was seen collecting potatoes in a rehri from the Dolphin crossing. Meena said she will use some of the potatoes in her kitchen for cooking and rest she will sell during the mandi to earn extra buck. Another woman collecting potatoes said, “Blessings to BKU activists for providing us free potatoes. I will distribute the potatoes among my relatives. It will serve as food for a couple of days for us.”
 
 
