It is said that ‘You are what you eat’, that is because our body responds differently to different types of foods we consume. Food plays an important role in how we feel. The kind of food we eat affects our mood and at times when we feel a sudden dip in our energy levels, it may be because of not eating right! Hence, we must consume those soul foods that lift our spirits. When we choose to have the right ingredient it boosts our mood into positivity. So follow these steps and get hooked on a happy feeling

 Nutritionist Karishma Chawla tells us 10 nutrition and fitness tips that help us be in a positive mood
 
 1. Refined and processed foods lead to fluctuation in blood sugar levels. This leaves us feeling low on energy and mood swings. It would be wise to consume whole grains and legumes that help us feel better. Don’t forget to dump the junk foods.
 
 2. Vitamin B6 also known as pyridoxine helps in improving our moods. It is found in spinach, oats, avocado, walnuts and salmon
 
 3. Vitamin B 12 is again an important feel-good vitamin. Healthy B12 levels help you feel good. It helps to combat depression. Its sources are salmon, yogurt and eggs
 
 4. Dopamine plays a major role in the control of emotions and moods such as feelings of pleasure, motivation, drive and the joy of being rewarded. Exercise supports improvements in dopamine levels. Hence lifting weights along with aerobic workouts never lets you down.
 
 5. Eating good nuts with essential fatty acids like walnuts and almonds are beneficial.
 
 6. High-quality protein like eggs, lean chicken, fish, skim milk and skim milk foods products are building blocks for a mood-boosting diet.
 
 7. Including in high fiber foods in your diet reduces the sweet cravings and dips in the mood.
 
 8. Serotonin is also known as a mood regulator which promotes positive and happy thoughts. Its sources are walnuts, bananas, pineapple, kiwi, plums and tomato.
 
 9. Foods rich in tryptophan are also beneficial as it can be converted to serotonin. Its sources are milk, curd, paneer, fish and chicken. It is also found in oilseeds like pumpkin seeds, sesame seeds, flaxseeds, walnuts, soybean, oats and whole eggs.
 
 10. Adequate sleep, water status and stress management are imperative in keeping yourself happy.
 
 Munch down all these good habits and always bee in the best of your mood.
 
