LUCKNOW: Following complaints of negligence, a deputy superintendent of police was on Monday removed as investigating officer (IO) of the gang rape case in which ex-minister Gayatri Prajapati is an accused.

 An FIR was lodged against Prajapati and his six aides on the directions of the   on February 18. Although FIR was lodged at   police station, DSP Amita Singh, who was circle officer of Alambagh, was asked to probe the case. Prajapati was arrested on March 15.
 
 Lucknow police chief   said that two complaints were lodged against Amita Singh on March 2 and April 5 respectively accusing her of negligence and harassment of survi vor during the probe. “Since the case is a sensitive one, we decided to remove Amita Singh and transfer her to Bakshi Ka Talab,“ Saini said.
 
 The first complaint against the DSP was lodged at Hauz Khas police station in Delhi by a relative of the survivor. The complainant claimed the IO forcefully took away the phone of the survivor's daughter to check call records and chats from AIIMS, Delhi, where the latter was undergoing treatment. Amita had gone there to record her statement under section 164 of the CrPC. The matter was also reported in the media.
 
 Second complaint was lodged by the survivor herself at Chitrakoot on April 5 in which she accused Amita and three unidentified policemen of kidnapping her daughter. Saini said the case has now been handed over to Hazratganj circle officer Avanish Mishra. Mahila Thana inspector   will assist Mishra. As per law, a female cop should be part of the probe in cases involving women and Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. SP (Chitrakoot) DP Singh said that an FIR under charges of public servants framing incorrect statements, criminal intimidation and kidnapping has been registered against Amita and three unidentified policemen and a probe is underway.
 
 When contacted, Amita Singh said, “I followed all protocols and investigative norms. I took the phone of the survivor's daughter to check chats and call history to crosscheck some specific information crucial for the probe.“ Amita rubbished allegations of kidnapping and said “we recorded statements in Chitrakoot as per the law“.
 
 A Chitrakoot-based woman had accused Gayatri Prajapati and his aides of raping her repeatedly between October 2014 and July 2016 on the pre text of giving her a job.
 
 The former minister also tried to rape her daughter, the survivor has al leged. When the police didn't act on her complaints, she moved court to get an FIR registered against the minister.
 
 The SC in February this year ordered the police to lodge an FIR in the case.
 
