PATNA: Former deputy CM   on Thursday said RJD president Lalu Prasad, who amassed “benami property” worth several hundred crores of rupees during his stint as railway minister, is the “biggest zamindar” in today’s Bihar. 

 Modi, who has brought in public domain several documents pertaining to land deals made by a few companies, alleged that chunks of land were transferred to these companies owned indirectly by Lalu as his family members held important posts of directors. “Chunks of land were transferred by business groups which benefited when Lalu was railway minister,” Modi alleged.
 
 “In Bihar, people used to consider Darbhanga Raj and Dumraon Maharaja as the state’s biggest zamindars, but Lalu has replaced them and has now become the biggest zamindar of the state in the 21st century,” he said.
 
 “In the last nine days, I have brought in public domain several documents regarding land deals, but Lalu has neither denied them nor accepted them,” Modi said. He claimed that a number of companies owned by Lalu clan, including   and Lara Project LLP, have prime property in state capital.
 
 Modi was addressing a function organised at   here by the state BJP’s scheduled caste front to celebrate the 126th birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar. He asked Lalu to come clean on the documents that were in public domain, various land deals and also the “benami property” owned by him.
 
 “I assure you, this is only the beginning. The BJP will expose all your land deals and benami property. I will not buckle under your threat, barbs and abuses. I did not fear you when your ‘atank (terror)’ was at its peak during the fodder scam, but today we have our government at the Centre (read BJP-led NDA government headed by PM Narendra Modi),” Modi said.
 
 Noting that people were wondering as to how Lalu made so much of property, Modi said he demanded land from anyone who benefited under his patronage and even from those who wanted RJD ticket to become MP or MLA. This happened during 2000-05 when his wife   was the state’s CM and during 2004-09 when he was railway minister, Modi said.
 
 He asked CM Nitish Kumar to break his silence on the matter and remove Lalu’s two minister sons – deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav – to vindicate his faith in the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, since the government is also engaged in celebrating the centenary of Mahatma’s visit to Champaran.
 
 Former state BJP chief   also asked the CM to order a probe into the benami property of Lalu. “Lalu, by amassing so much of benami property, has made mockery of social justice,” Pandey said. On the other hand, leader of opposition in the state assembly Prem Kumar described the Nitish government as anti-poor, maintaining that atrocities on Dalits had increased in the state. 
 
