CHENNAI: In the  , when the two-month trawling ban is in force, most fishermen seek out   of employment. A small -but growing -number of them are attending   classes.

 While the   District Rural Development Agency's (TNDRDA) community based disaster risk management project has been on for a few years, the `course' has been intensified after the floods of December 2015, says  , project director at TNDRDA, which implements the programme with the State Institute of Rural Development. An increasing number of members from the fishing community , both men and women, are signing up for the volunteer -driven task force.
 
 “We understood the need for a more intensive training after the 2015 floods,“ says Jayakumar, who adds for the first time this year disaster management teams have been formed from within the community , with regular mock drills, trainings and meetings being conducted.
 
 Each team specialises in a different aspects of disaster management from decoding early warning systems, evacuation, cyclone shelter management, search and rescue to first aid, says Murugan A, one of the block coordinators for the disaster management programme.
 
 “The reason we pick summer months to conduct the training is because we cannot get hold of them for the rest of the year, as they are out catching fish,“ he says.
 
 Jayakumar says that the programme is being conduc ted in 13 coastal districts, 44 habitations in Kancheepuram district alone, where 1,200 locals have been trained ubdisaster mitigation.
 
 “Training is needed because no one can get to fishermen faster in times of distress than those in the community . We found that, during the floods, fishermen assisted state disaster management units in rescue operations. So having a programme like this will equip the community further,“ says Selvam, a city fisherman who has been trained now teaches others as a volunteer.
 
 “This is a community based programme. We find that just as much as we teach them, we also learn,“ says Murugan. “While we give them the science behind disaster management and early warning systems, they surprise us with their instinctive knowledge.“
 
 “For instance, they can tell where to expect rainfall just by watching the flow of the ocean current, or if a storm is approaching based on changing surf,“ he adds.
 
