GHAZIABAD: Eight-year-old Vaishnavi was alone at home on Monday, watching a cartoon show on TV, when a fire broke out in the flat. But she had no way out of the house. 

 The main door had been locked from outside by her parents who were away for work, out of concern for her safety. What it had done, though, was turn the house into a death trap as the flames leapt from wiring to woodwork and threatened to engulf the whole flat.
 
 The frightened child cried for help but the screams from the second-floor flat in   did not reach her neighbours. It was a plume of black smoke that caught the notice of a woman in the third floor of an adjacent building. She immediately raised an alarm. Around half an hour later, neighbours had managed to pull Vaishanvi out through a living room window by smashing its glass panes with a steel pipe and hammering away at the iron grille till it came unhinged. The girl was traumatised but had not suffered any injury.
 
 The fire in the house, part of a block of GDA flats in Shakti Khand-1, was caused by an overheated immersion rod that had been left on. It melted the plastic top of a washing machine where it has been kept before triggering a short-circuit, Ghaziabad’s chief fire officer, Akshay Ranjan, told TOI.
 
 The fire was first spotted by the neighbour a little after 12.30pm. While efforts to rescue Vaishnavi were on, neighbours said they called her father Santosh Kumar (37), a physiotherapist, who was at work. They said a frantic Kumar asked them to break open the door and rescue his daughter.
 
 Kartik (24), who lives in the first floor of the same building but on another wing, said, “A huge gust of black smoke billowed out of the window when we smashed the glass pane. Then we kicked and hammered the iron grille till it came loose. The child was crying and gasping for breath when we pulled her out.”
 
 The fire brigade said it was informed at 12.50pm. By the time they reached, Vaishnavi had been rescued. “The girl had been rescued before the fire tender arrived. There was thick black smoke all over and we just wanted to save the girl at any cost,” said Babita, another neighbour.
 
 It took the firefighters around half an hour to douse the flames. When this correspondent visited the flat, Santosh Kumar and his wife Manju were back home and were cleaning the house. They said the girl had not gone to school because the winter break had been extended. 
 
 “My wife had not gone to her workplace on Monday. She had gone for some work nearby when the fire broke out and was informed by neighbours. My daughter was watching cartoons on TV when my wife had left her behind,” Kumar said. Manju (34) works with a private firm in Noida.
 
 Police said they could file a case of negligence after a preliminary probe. “The fire department will compile a report. If it points towards anyone’s negligence leading to the fire, necessary legal action will be taken,” circle officer of Indirapuram police station, Anil Yadav, said.
 
 
