MUMBAI: A 53-year-old man went   after consuming liquor, leaving his family worried and taking Mumbai   for a ride. Bombay Port Trust (BPT) employee, Kisan Sable, went missing on January 16. A resident of Indira Nagar in Ghatkopar, he was to return home by 6pm. After waiting for a day, his family registered a missing complaint at Ghatkopar police station. 

 A Chunnabhatti resident, Baburao Pujari, on January 17, informed the police control room that an unattended bag with   with a lot of blood on them was found at Nagoba Chawl. Chunnabhatti police went to the spot and opened the haversack, only to find clothes with fresh blood` stains on them. They also found Kisan’s purse and identity card.
 
 A police team was sent to Kisan’s house, where his wife, Mandakini, informed them that he was missing for a day. Police suspected that Kisan was killed and his body was dumped somewhere.
 
 Early this month, as police had found bodies dumped at LTT railway station, Govandi and Mankhurd dumping ground, they assumed it could be a murder case. “We checked up with neighbouring police stations and morgues at Sion, Rajawadi and Mulund general hospital, but did not find any body,” said Umap Shahaji, deputy commissioner of police (zone VI). Police said many cops were assigned tasks related to the search. A team was even sent to Karnataka, after police got a mobile tower location there.
 
 But on January 18, his son Tushar intimated the Chunnabhatti police that his father had returned. Kisan told police that he did not remember where he went. He told police that on January 16 he went to a liquor shop, and since he had not   alcohol for nearly seven months, he had a little extra that day. After drinking, he said, he fell on his head and as there was a lot of bleeding, he wiped it off with his shirt. He then took off his wet clothes and dumped them in his bag and moved on in his underwear. 
 
 “He said he does not remember where all he went and slept on roads until he gained consciousness on Thursday night and walked home. His family did not recognise him initially as he was in undergarments,” a police officer said.
 
 
