NEW DELHI: Nearly a month after three brothers were arrested for breaking into Kailash Satyarthi’s house, the police on Friday night recovered the   they had dumped in a jungle. It was kept in a laptop bag, wrapped in a polythene packet.

 A total of 15 teams, including the mounted police and sniffer dogs, scanned eight areas in Delhi-NCR where the accused had travelled after the burglary at Aravali Apartments, Alaknanda, near Kalkaji in south Delhi.
 
 The three accused — Vinod (35), Sunil (28) and Rajan Natta (25) — told the police they threw some of the robbed goods while fleeing. The next day, when the news about the theft started flashing on televisions, they hid in the forested areas around   and Faridabad to avoid being detected by the police.
 
 They had thrown away the bag containing the citation presuming it to be a piece of paper. However, they did not remember the exact location, since they kept shifting between Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Delhi for five days before they were arrested.
 
 “Teams led by Kalkaji SHO inspector Ved Prakash were tasked to locate the citation. We feared that the citation may have got damaged owing to adverse weather conditions since it was thrown in the open,” said DCP (southeast) Romil Baaniya.
 
 The cops divided the five major areas travelled by the accused into 20 grids each, which included Govindpuri and Alaknanda, and scanned them with the help of the mounted police and sniffer dogs. “The teams were given photos of the citation and asked to look for a bag,” said a police officer.
 
 The friends of the accused were also questioned to find out which places they visited regularly to locate the spot.
 
 On Thursday, the police zeroed in on a forested area in Sangam Vihar where the locals usually defecate. The family of the accused had told the police that three youths usually visited the place for using drugs.
 
 The bag containing the citation was finally found under a rock. “Fortunately, the document was not damaged as it was wrapped in polythene in the leather bag. It will be handed over to the Nobel laureate after legal formalities,” the officer added. The cops who recovered the citation will be rewarded.
 
  has thanked   for recovering the citation. “I am thankful to Delhi Police for their efforts to recover the Nobel replica and the original citation. The Nobel belongs to every Indian citizen and child. Since I am the son of a policeman, I have always understood their sense of responsibility and commitment towards the nation,” he said in a statement.
 
 
