Chennai: Come July, a ‘modern’ foot over-bridge, which will help ease pedestrian woes on bustling Rajiv Gandhi Salai (Old Mahabalipuram Road). With elevators and LED lighting, the new over-bridge will be the first of its kind in the city. 

 Ramanujan IT City has commissioned the structure to enable its employees and others to cross the four-lane stretch. The construction, operation and management of the project at a cost of Rs 9 crore is being done solely by the IT City, which received the nod from the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC). Using prefabricated material and a cable design, it hopes to finish the project in another two months. 
 
 “Nearly 70,000 employees of several office blocks like the tech park and IIT-M Research park will be able to cross the road safely. We have approved the land for the construction of the foot over-bridge. It will be extend from the main road adjacent to the MGR film city road till the MRTS station for better connectivity. We are in talks with MRTS [Southern Railway] to enable direct connectivity,” said a TNRDC official. 
 
 Unlike the regular steel and metal bridges in most parts of the city, the over-bridge coming up on   will have an upper and lower level crossing for pedestrians, ramp-like structures to get on and off, two elevators at both ends, CCTV cameras, and an open-sky roofing.
 
 “Although the foot over-bridge was ideally planned to help the thousands of employees from large office complexes on the Taramani side, it also has a public use motive. We wanted to ensure that the structure is modern and usable for all. This is why we zeroed in on a model that has never been attempted before, so that it can help encourage more pedestrian movement in general on this line,” said P Velan, CEO, Ramanujan IT City. 
 
 Currently, there are two foot over-bridges on the same stretch which is among the busiest in the city, but they are anything but popular with road-users. Pedestrians, particularly senior citizens and women, have long been complaining on various platforms about the condition and poor maintenance of both the structures.
 
 
