New Delhi: The minister at the centre of the storm that has hit Aam Aadmi Party,  , broke his silence on Monday to say that he would be filing a criminal defamation case against  , his former colleague in Delhi government. Mishra had been dropped from the cabinet and he alleged on Sunday that he had seen Jain handing over Rs 2cr to chief minister Arvind  . 

 “I have been watching since yesterday how far Kapil Mishra can lie. Now all limits have been crossed. He has lost his mental balance and is making baseless allegations. Show us the papers or proof if it is true? I was not present at the CM’s residence on May 5, Friday, and I can prove it in many ways,” Jain said on Monday.
 
 “When I did not go there, the question of money does not arise. BJP has been after me for many months now. They have made so many cases against me. They could have made yet another case against me this time too, but to drag Arvind Kejriwal into this is pathetic. He (Mishra) is taking the name of a man because of whose honesty we all have left everything and come here. Thousands and lakhs of workers have left everything for his honesty and joined this movement,” added Jain.
 
 “Before I fought the election on the AAP platform, I went around and met many chartered accountants and asked them if they knew about Arvind Kejriwal, what kind of a person he was and did he take bribes or not. They all told me that Kejriwal was very honest and was the only man in the department who did not taken any money,” said Jain.
 
 Jain said he was disgusted to see Mishra doing politics over a dead man. He was referring to Mishra’s allegation in which he referred to the “Bansal family”. Kejriwal’s brother-in-law, Surender Bansal, died on Sunday night and was cremated on Monday. “He should be ashamed of taking the name of a man barely two hours after he was cremated. He should have at least spared a dead man,” asserted Jain.
 
 Jain said Mishra was only trying to defame and discredit AAP. “Why did he go straight to the media and not CBI. This only shows that he is only trying to defame and discredit AAP. But these tactics will not work. If losing a minister’s post can make him so unstable, then I can only feel sorry for him,” Jain added.
 
