NAVI MUMBAI: With a probe underway for an absurd nearly 80 to 100% more daily garbage collection shown on paper and close to double the money payment to the contractor in the erstwhile council area of the 300 year old   township, PCMC could be opening a can of worms in which several people’s involvement would surface. 

 There was a possibility of daily collection increasing by some 10 ton during Ganesh Chaturthi due to green and floral waste, but the inflated quantum would still be more by 50%, the newly-formed Panvel corporation noted. ``It was a waste of tax payers money,'' commissioner,   sternly observed.
 
 The commissioner countered the blackmailing of the contractor a week ago when he stepped out to undertake the daily collection and disposal when the contractor threatened to stop work when told payment would be made after verification of the weight of waste.
  
  
  The garbage disposed at the   landfill site is being weighed properly and monitored on a daily basis. ``The weight of garbage collected could be a little more, by say, 10 tonne or so during Ganesh Chaturthi on certain days, but the claim of collecting some 55 to 60 ton does not confirm to the 30 ton waste that we have been collecting. The issue is being probed,’’ said Shinde. The contractor was awarded the work before the corporation got constituted on October 1, 2016. The civic body said, `` a full investigation of the payment made, the involvement of people including our corporation staff would reveal the nexus.’’
  
 Backed by the general body resolution of verification of weight of garbage collection and armed with the municipal solid waste department staff, the several erstwhile gram panchayats with their workers and smaller vehicles (ghanta gadi) came in handy.
  
 Shinde reached out to Vasai-Virar, NMMC corporations as also   to obtain the services of garbage compactors. The NMMC provided two vehicles for one day; ``we have right now vehicles provided by Cidco and   civic body besides ghanta gadis of the panchayats that can wheel down on narrow roads in the old council area. There is no problem in doing the daily work and people are also happy’’ said Shinde.
 
 The commissioner stayed put on duty till 3.00 am last Saturday & till midnight Sunday and Monday to monitor the garbage collection. ``I wanted to oversee the operation and streamline the collection. i must thank the staff and people for the success of the alternative arrangement we did because we did not want to submit to blackmailing tactics of the contractor.
 
