PUNE: Barely three days are left for filing   for the   elections, but the major   are yet to announce the name of their candidates. 

 Sanjog Waghire, the president of the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the NCP, said, “The names of candidates will be known on February 3, when they will be given the AB forms of the party. A formal list is not likely to be announced.”
 
 Babu Nair, the spokesperson of Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the BJP, said, “The local unit has prepared a draft list of candidates and sent it to the state unit for final approval. We hope the final list will be known on February 2, so that the candidates can submit their nomination forms the next day.”
 
 Rahul Kalate the president of Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the Shiv Sena, said, “A draft list of 90 candidates has been prepared by a group of leaders comprising observer Amol Kolhe, Maval MP Shrirang Barne, Shirur MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil and myself. We have submitted the list to Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, who will approve and announce the final list. We will finalise the remaining 38 seats in a few days and send it to the party chief soon for approval.”
 
 The   in announcing the names of candidates is being considered in political circles as a ploy of parties to prevent dissidence and last minute desertions by aspirants unhappy over not getting the candidature.
 
 A total of 33 candidates have submitted their nomination forms till Tuesday for   elections. Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Shakuntala Dharade was among the 30 candidates submitting their nomination forms for the February 2017 municipal elections on Tuesday. 
 
 Dharade was elected unopposed from Pimple Gurav as NCP corporator. Earlier, she was unwilling to contest the elections but she relented just before the model code of conduct came into force a fortnight ago. Former corporators Kaluram Pawar, Geeta Mancharkar, Rahul Bhosale, Vaishali Ghodekar-Londhe and Shantaram Bhalekar were the other prominent candidates to submit nomination forms on Tuesday. 
 
 There a total of 128 seats in PCMC. They are divided into 32 panels of four wards each. The ruling NCP had won 83 seats in the last elections and had a support of nine Independents. The Congress and Shiv Sena had won 14 seats each.
 
 
