

 CHANDIGARH: Members of the  , along with a team from the woman and child helpline, prevented a child marriage in the periphery of Chandigarh. The teams swung to action after receiving a call on the helpline number, 181 at 2.07pm on Monday. This is the first time such a case has come to fore in the city, members of the rescue team said.
 
 After being rescued, the girl was produced before sub divisional magistrate (East) Tapsya Raghav, the child marriage prohibition officer. Acting on the SDM's orders, the woman and child helpline got a complaint filed, but a case was yet to be registered at the time of filing this article.
 
 Vikramjit Godwani, manager, Women and Child helpline, 181 told TOI, “Following orders from the SDM, we went to the police station but a case was yet to be filed since they wanted to take legal opinion from the DSP.“
 
 SHO   said, “We are waiting for the girl's medical report. Once it comes, we will register a case.“
 
 The girl will be sent to the children's home and will stay there till she turns 18. Members of the Woman and Child Helpline said after receiving a call, they rushed to the address given where the girl and boy, both underage, were present.They were taken to the police station. The youth was aged 20 and the girl was 15.
 
 TWO KNEW EACH OTHER SINCE LAST 1 YEAR
 
 Members of rescue team said the two had a love affair and wanted to get married. Family members said the marriage was scheduled in   on Monday evening. “Family members said they live in separate rooms in same building and knew each other for one year. Since they had an affair, the family wanted them to get married. The girl's father is a drunkard who used to beat them up. Her mother wanted to ger her married in hope of a better life,“  , chairperson, Child Welfare Committee
 
 GIRL COUNSELLED
 
 We had to stop the marriage in best interests of the girl as she is underage and may be caught in untoward situation later. We have counselled her and told her she may wait to turn 18 and marry the same boy if she wants. She has agreed,” said  , manager, Women and Child Helpline
 
 FIRST CASE
 
 Neil Roberts said this is the first case he has received. But Godwani said, “Not that child marriages are not happening. It is that complaints were not coming. They used to go to villages to marry children.“ Punishment for promoting or permitting solemnisation of child marriages is rigorous imprisonment which may extend to two years and shall also be liable to fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.
 
