MEERUT: Trader’s organisations and hotel owners in Meerut are now planning to hold a joint protest against Supreme Court’s order banning the sale of alcohol within 500 metres of state and national highways.
 
   , district president of the  , said, “Property worth Rs 100 crore has been impacted due to this decision. Almost all of the bars, hotels and restaurants that sold alcohol have been impacted as they find themselves to be within 500 metres of highways. We will protest against the decision.”
  
  Most of the hotels and restaurants in Meerut are located either on highways or very close to them, and the ones which serve alcohol will be impacted by the apex court’s order.
  
  “My restaurant business will be affected because of this order. People came for a drink and then had food after that. My business is largely dependent on alcohol. I don’t run a huge hotel. It is a small establishment, and I am suffering a loss of Rs 1 lakh on a daily basis. Setting up somewhere else is not an option for me because of the cost involved. So, this order is a huge setback. We will protest with all our might and not back down,” said the owner of a popular bar and restaurant in Meerut.
  
  Some bar owners are hopeful that establishments within the city will be spared.  , owner of Indiana Bar and Restaurant, said, “We are hopeful that the state government will resolve the issue. My restaurant falls within the 500-metre-boundary set by the  . But I am hopeful that establishments within the city will be spared. Otherwise, I will have no option but to protest as my livelihood is at stake.”
  
  Traders also complain that the ban has not only impacted the liquor shops and bars, but also the allied businesses. “Liquor shops and bars are directly impacted. But the order also had an impact on the allied businesses. For example, since most of the wedding halls in Meerut are on highways, there will be an impact on those serving cocktails at weddings. The traders, hotel owners, restaurant owners and bar owners of Meerut have decided to launch a protest against this move. We will ask the state government to intervene and salvage our businesses,” added Nagpal.
