For the   that was trying to boost its maritime strength in 1987 by replacing its aging aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, there couldn’t have been a better match than the  , later re-christened as   by the Indian Navy. The   had already been in service for 27 years under the Royal Navy and was the game changer in the 1982 Falklands War in South Atlantic. The grand old lady, as she was referred to, by then had already served in three roles as a strike, commando and anti-submarine warfare carrier. So, the fourth stint as Indian Navy flagship aircraft carrier required upgrade, and she delivered with all her cylinders firing for three illustrious decades.

 Commander Anil Malani, who had served as commander operations on Viraat from April 2014 to January 2016, says, “Being an aircraft carrier, her deck’s where most of the Sea King chopper and Sea Harrier aircraft pilots cut their teeth. But her legacy lies in the fact that she has extended the striking range of India’s maritime forces far beyond the reach of naval guns and missiles as she left even the force of world’s most advanced navies awestruck during the inter-naval exercises.”
 
 Viraat sailed her last journey under her own power from Mumbai to Kochi in July 2016. She has spent nearly 2,250 days at sea travelling almost 11 lakh kilometres, implying that Viraat has been at sea for over six years covering the globe about 27 times.
 
 With its   on March 6, there’s a void in the Indian Navy but the officers who have served on board proudly say that in spite of the ship’s decomissioning, her memories will never be forgotten.
 We listen in as the naval officers from the  , Kochi, share their experience aboard the vibrant Viraat and how it truly marks the   as the torch is now passed to India’s only other aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya:
  
 
 
  
 I was selected as the commissioning crew of INS Viraat in 1986 as a young Lieutenant. At that time I served on the ship for nearly two years. We were deputed to Plymouth, UK, to take over the ship from the Royal Navy, and be trained in operating it.
 
 I remember, when the ship was taken over from the Royal Navy in 1987, they had not given more than eight to 10 years’ life to the ship. But through excellent maintenance, upkeep, refits and modernisation schemes, the ship continued to improve her operational capability during the 30 years that she was in the Indian Navy. In fact even senior officers of the other navies, during their visits to India have profusely complimented the ship on its excellent state of upkeep.
 That’s also where Kochi and Viraat’s special relationship comes in. It is here that the most critical docking for doing underwater maintenance and repair work was regularly carried out. The good work done here has ensured that the ship remained in fine fettle for so many years. 
  
 Being selected as a crew member of such a prestigious ship was no doubt a proud moment for me. Professionally, the experience I gained during my time on the ship was unparalleled. In fact everyone who has served on either HMS Hermes or INS Viraat would have gone through unmatched experiences. I was Captain of Viraat in 2007-08, when we participated in the first multilateral Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal. Five countries participated, with nearly 25 ships and several aircraft. Two US Navy aircraft carriers along with our Viraat was the centre piece of the exercise. 
 
 Service on such a big ship first as a young Lieutenant and later as its Captain made me professionally very strong. There was a crew of nearly 1,200 men and officers, with continuous flying operations when at sea. The safety and optimal exploitation of the ship and its aircraft places great responsibility on the captain’s shoulders. And it was indeed a satisfying job.
 
 Viraat’s decommissioning is truly the end of an era, because the ship represented an era of aircraft carriers of an older generation of aircraft such as the Sea Harrier. An aircraft carrier, along with its escorts, is a powerful instrument and can exercise influence at sea that cannot be achieved by other means. In that regard, the INS Viraat has been the symbol of our Navy and the nation’s maritime might.
  
 
 
 
 I had operated from Viraat from 1990 to 1992, as a part of the Indian Naval Air Squadron 330. I was part of the crew that landed on INS Viraat with five modernised Sea King 42 B helicopters for the first ever time. It was a thrilling sight. We had flown our helicopters from Kochi to Goa the previous day and flew off in the morning to join ‘mother’. And what a sight we beheld! There she was, ringed by Frigates and Destroyers at around ten miles, cutting through Navy Blue waters, leaving a great trail of churning water in her wake. As ‘mother’ started turning to receive us, she painted a graceful psychedelic bluish green arc in the ocean.
 
 As a young Sub Lieutenant, I was among the crowd on the South Breakwater at Mumbai Dockyard that welcomed Viraat from UK. But this was the first time I was stepping on board. I had already flown from INS Vikrant. But this was different. While Vikrant clearly looked like a WWII ship, Viraat looked modern.
 
 Everything to do with flying was undertaken with extreme seriousness. After being briefed of our missions and attired like astronauts, we would see all the aircraft scheduled to fly arranged on the flight majestically, tied down by lashings to the deck. They would look like great birds of destruction, restrained, and tearing at their leashes. Once we fly out, there will always be a last fond look at ‘mother’. The next four hours or so, periodic communication from her remains a great comfort.
 
 For most part of a mission, she would be just a little blip on a radar screen. But returning to this ‘mother’ at sea, is quite like returning to one’s own mother. A few incoming procedures and then you are off to enjoy the excellent sports facilities, gym, food, entertainment or just fantastic banter.
 
 The best of all was just the sight of the sea and the wind in the face. Thousands of sunrises, sunsets, moon or starlit nights. Evening walks on the flight deck when there was no flying, was something that no amount of money or influence can buy.
 
 Viraat will not figure in Indian Navy’s Order of Battle from now but thousands who shed sweat, blood and much of their youth on board, ever ready to battle, can never forget Viraat, their mother.
 
 
 
 
 I first served on Viraat as a staff pilot of Chetak Flight way back in 2005 for two years after which I graduated into a Sea King helicopter pilot. Being a Chetak/Sea King pilot in Mumbai means we are never too far away from Viraat and that’s the reason why we all refer to her as ‘Mother’. I have ever since been operating from that magnificent deck. In fact, I was privileged to pilot the last Sea King helicopter landing on Viraat, on its return journey from Kochi last year.
 
 Viraat is to any naval aviator, what Everest is to any mountaineer. Flying from the deck of the Mighty Viraat during the formative years of my career has been ‘One hell of a ride’. The experience of serving on an aircraft carrier is like none other. During any major exercise, the pace of activities on Viraat are frantic. It is during such hectic days, when catching the enemy ship/submarine is everything, that some of the most demanding yet memorable moments happen. 
 
 It is no less than a busy airport which never sleeps. Often, you are launched for missions in the middle of the night when intelligence about enemy forces are received. My personal favourite sorties were the ones wherein we would be launched at 2-3 AM. They were the toughest and the most difficult missions. They would demand the highest skill levels and professional acumen when your body is at its lowest. As a mobile airbase, Viraat would mount the widest range of operations, from the offensive punch in battle to global disaster and humanitarian relief operations and proved her worth time and time again.
 
 
 
 
 I had two stints aboard the Viraat – as a staff observer from INAS 330 in 1999-00 and as the commander operations in 2009-10. Our helicopter squadron used to operate from the carrier when it sailed and provided anti-submarine warfare capability. For the Sea King aircrew, Viraat was like the alma mater of deck operations, she’s the mother whose arms you go back to at the end of the mission.
 
 Life aboard the island at sea, which was home to hundreds, provided its marvels. The annual Leonids meteor shower, which appears in November, is hardly seen from land. I remember once when we were waiting to fly out on a routine mission at 4 am, we witnessed the meteor showers at sea from the flight deck of Viraat. We probably ran out of wishes that day as the shooting stars were raining like fireworks from God.
 
 On another occasion while on an overseas deployment, we rushed to the flight deck to the clang of sirens and the crew were abuzz with talk of some unidentified ship closing in without permission. Fighters were launched but they could only fly by due to peacetime in international waters. We went up in our Sea Kings and identified it as Pakistan naval ship Khaiber and politely warned them to keep clear of the carrier's safety zone.
 Vibrant Viraat has been a symbol of pride and power.
 
  
 
 
 
 Sea Harrier fighters
 Sea King 42B anti-submarine helicopters
 Sea King 42 C commando carrier choppers
 Chetak search and rescue helicopters
 Dhruv light-weight utility helicopters
 Kamov Ka 31 airborne early warning choppers
 
