INDORE:   have been a hub for   for the last two decades because of its central location,   and porous borders with three neighbouring states that facilitate hideouts and  .

 The region — comprising Indore, Ujjain, Ratlam, Mandsaur, Dewas, Dhar, Jhabua, Shajapur and Neemuch — also gave birth to activists like former SIMI head   SIMI chief Kamruddin Nagori (Safdar’s brother). They used the Malwa base to strategise, organise and train the SIMI cadre.
 
 Good train connectivity gave them quick access to different parts of the country as far off as Kerala, where the SIMI leaders from Madhya Pradesh are known to have operated, a senior officer of ATS said.
 
 He added that open boundaries with Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra made it easy for arms to be smuggled. The thriving illegal opium trade in Ratlam-Mandsaur belt provided avenues to raise money.
 
 Meanwhile, Khandwa — a city with a census of around 2 lakh, comprising of 30% Muslim population — has always been a major hotbed for SIMI operatives.
 
 “The areas — including Ganesh Talai, Gulmohar Colony, Imlipura, Khan Saab Ali, Kallanganj and Bangladesh — come under the communally-sensitive zones of the city,” Gopal Khandel, Khandwa ASP told TOI.
 
 “The radicalization of SIMI youths in Malwa and Nimad regions started in the mid-90s with leaders like Safdar Nagori and Dr Shahid Bhalai speaking to them,” said a senior ATS official. He added that the leaders distributed books and literature related to the SIMI movement.
 
 From the mid-90s, Mohommad Aqeel Khilji, a resident of Gulmohar Colony, a middle-class locality in Khandwa, became a SIMI agent. He started distributing SIMI literature and was said to have been a major aide of Nagori as well as Abu Faisal.
 
 There were several incidents of riots in Khandwa and Ujjain after 1992. Following the Babri Masjid incident, many riots took place in the region. This led to more youths, who had lost their loved ones in the incidents, being radicalised.
 
 After this, youths from several pockets in Khandwa started getting involved in SIMI activity and were never able to get out of it. Many of them were also falsely implicated, which further angered them and made them commit crimes to seek vengeance, locals said.
 
 Some of the youths took shelter in compact and closely-knit localities in Indore and Ujjain and many of them have been arrested in the past several years.
 
