Last August, the death of an e-rickshaw driver on a Delhi road evoked a collective gasp from people across the country. 

 Not one of the 400 vehicles and 40 pedestrians who passed by the accident victim while he was bleeding to death stopped to help. Worse, someone made off with his mobile phone. The incident, caught on CCTV, sparked outrage and put a question mark on the moral integrity of society today. But this was not a one-off case.
 
 Studies show that four of five people turn a blind eye to road accident victims fearing legal hassles and hospital procedures. This makes all the difference as the `golden hour', the first 60 minutes when chances of a victim's survival are high, is lost. The Law Commission recently observed after a study of   that 50% of those killed could have been saved with timely assistance.
 
 It was to find legal ways to deal with this reluctance to help that the   filed a PIL in 2012, following which the Supreme Court directed the Centre to issue guidelines to protect Good Samaritans. While the apex court approved the guidelines, charted by the Union ministry of road transport and highways last March, implementation is nowhere in sight.
 
 The guidelines provide protection and even anonymity to those who help accident victims.They specify procedures to be followed by the police while questioning witnesses and make it clear that Good Samaritans should face no harassment from police or hospital authorities. An eyewitness should also be allowed to give evidence in the form of an affidavit and not be required to report to a police station. Following the court's intervention, the   shot off instructions to the police and hospitals, but that didn't make much of a difference. “While government hospitals are largely following the instructions, private hospitals make excuses to turn away victims. They either say they cannot handle the case or refuse to admit victims of 'police cases'. To ensure that hospitals toe the line, the issue of payments has to be sorted out,“ said T Krishna Prasad, additional DG, road safety .
 
 Experts say that mere guidelines aren't enough and there is an urgent need for legal provisions to plug the gaps.“The guidelines and the standard operating procedure for the police are an interim measure until appropriate legislation is drafted. To ensure effective implementation, the state government must enact a Good Samaritan Law,“ said Piyush Tewari, Save Life Foundation's founder and CEO.
 
 Recently, Karnataka set a precedent by passing the Good Samaritan and Medical Professional (Protection and Regulation during Emergency Situations) Bill. Though the authorities in Telangana proposed such a bill, it is yet to come about. The issue cropped up in meetings of the road safety committee. But without much headway , harassment of conscientious citizens continues.
 
