CUTTACK: Some have compared their success to a  . Others have labelled it a miracle. And then just before   thanked   FC “for helping to spread the positive message of football”, our very own AIFF president Praful Patel said in an interview that credit should go to the Indian football body for allowing a relegated team from the last season a chance to play the I-League.

 Well, adoration and arrogance set aside, the man who guided the little-known Mizoram club to the zenith of I-League glory, Khalid Jamil, explained his team’s success formula in two words — hard work. And that hard work was visible here at on Saturday as the Aizawl players slogged it out in the sweltering heat ahead of their   opener against   FC at Barabati Stadium on Sunday.
 
 With a winning culmination to their dream run this season comes a lot of confidence. But there also emerges the pitfall of unprecedented pressure and expectations. And how the I-League champions handle that in the knockout tournament would go a long way in proving that they are not a one-season wonder.
 
 Aizawl FC, of course, have an optimistic precedent in being the Federation Cup runners-up last year where they lost the title to Mohun Bagan. And there are more reasons for optimism ahead of Sunday’s clash.
 
 Skipper Alfred Jaryan and Ashutosh Mehta — the duo that was the backbone of Aizawl’s defence in I-League but missed the title decider against Shillong Lajong due to suspension — will be back for the People’s Club. They would also have the defensive skills of full-backs Zohmingliana Ralte, Kingsley Obumneme and Lalramchullova to their aid, with Albino Gomes at the goal. 
 
 Mahmoud al Amna would be there to play the playmaker as much as he plays the role of motivator for the youngsters in every training session. The Syrian midfielder has impressed one and all this season not just with his tragic background but also with his skills with the ball. 
 
 With a full squad at Jamil’s disposal, it will be the pace of Brandon Vanlalremdika in the wings and the poaching skills of Kamo Bayi and Jayesh Rane that can make the scoreline tick in their favour. If need be, Jamil can fall back on his bench strength that includes the super sub from the Lajong tie, William Lalnufela.
 
 But Jamil is not one to take his opposition lightly. And rightly so. The V Soundararajan-coached newcomers caused a few jitters for the giants when they beat East Bengal and held Bengaluru FC in the I-League. And their early strike against Bagan on the last day of the league almost made the match in Shillong inconsequential in deciding the title. 
 
 Preferring a 4-4-1-1 combination, Chennai are likely to have Charles Thank upfront, supported by Michael Soosai Raj. The midfield is likely to consist of Lalnunmawia and Edwin Vanspaul flanking Denson Devadas and Dhanpal Ganesh while the four-man defence could include Debabrata Roy, Dharmaraj Ravanan, Echezona Aniyichie and Joseph Clemente with Karanjit Singh at the goal.
 
 While Khalid stressed the importance of winning the first game here to ease the hangover from their fairytale win, his squad did not look perturbed as they indulged in their bonding session before practice. In fact, with a Zen-like figure in the 40-year-old at the helm, the club from the far corner of the northeast looks ready to cement their place in the annals of Indian football.
 
 
