CHANDIGARH: From helping and guiding students during the admission process to promoting their respective organizations in colleges, student parties have left no stone unturned to woo prospective voters.

 Hoping to gain an edge over others, parties are relentlessly working on unique aspects to grab the attention and support of the students.
 
 In PGGC-11,   (SOI) candidates devised a plan of paying through their own plastic cards for students who were unaware of electronic payment during admissions and collecting cash in return, said Prince Sodhi, member of the party.
 
 Abhishek Negi, president of   (HIMSU), said, “We are not merely working for students belonging to Himachal, but we are thinking of every student on the campus. We aim to provide more seats in the canteen area as there is a scarcity; we have our student volunteers on the gate to take the students to the main venue of the admission and also avoid unpleasant circumstances created by outsiders during the admission process which have previously defamed the reputation of the college.”
 
 Campaigning in  , Sector-11,   said, “We have planned a few activities to reach out to students after the admission process is over. We also intend to organize cultural events and competitions to provide a platform to those students who have not gotten a chance to showcase their skills. We have our volunteers to answer the queries of students and we are also providing basic transport facility to new entrants.”
 
 To help the newcomers get accustomed to the new phase of life, the student organizations are putting extra efforts by taking candidates around the campuses, guiding them through important spots of the college like libraries, help centres, counselling rooms, and helping the outstation students in allotment of hostels in both the colleges.
 
 “Our party has one aim and that is to promote the virtues of humanity and to instigate the youth to play a pivotal role in making the society a better place regardless of their religion or community,” said Tejinder Singh, member of INSO from DAV 10.
 
 Social media is also playing an indispensable role in promoting the vision of these parties and helping them in gaining followers.
 
 Nanak Singh, a senior leader of PUSU, said, “We are providing help to freshers by answering their queries through our Facebook and Instagram handles and are also updating the latest information and guidelines of each and every college for all the courses.”
 
 “We sometimes help students in getting affidavits from Sector 17 or if they’re face issues in certification. We’ve also provided water coolers for parents and students and guide them with whatever information we have,” said Shaurya Kharb, chairman, INSO DAV- 10.
 
 
