CHENNAI:  's misfortune started with the death of her five-year-old daughter in July 2015. Police arrested her on charges of poisoning the girl, the lawyer defending her in the trial court abandoned her midway and the trial court turned hostile, neither offering her legal aid nor allowing her proper defence by another lawyer. In the end, on May 6, 2016, she was found guilty of murder and sentenced to imprisonment for life.

 A division bench of the Madras high court, however, sifted through the factual and legal aspects of   and concluded she wasinnocent. The bench of   and   set her at liberty, saying the trial court in Erode had blindly rushed through the proceedings and convicted her without affording her a decent opportunity to defend herself.
 
 “Her counsel, it appears, did not have any concern for the ethics and best practices of the legal profession.He had forgotten his duty to appear before the court when the case was called and to conduct his case after getting instructions from the client.But such gross negligence and dereliction of duty on part of counsel cannot go to deprive the right of the accused to have legal assistance and to have effective defence,“ said the bench.
 
 Faulting the trial judge, the bench said, “there is no indication that the judge offered any legal assistance through legal aid to the accused who is a poor woman.“ Also, when the public prosecutor sought time to argue the case, he refused to grant time. The newly-appointed defence advocate was also not allowed time to prepare to argue the case. “This act of the jud ge in blindly rushing to finish the case is really unwarranted and unfortunate,“ observed the bench.
 
 The trial court judge pronounced the judgment the same day , sentencing her to life imprisonment though there was absolutely no evidence against her, said the bench. “On closely scrutinising all the evidence let in by the prosecution, we find that absolutely there is no convincing evidence to hold that it was this accused that killed the child,“ it added.
 
 As for the prosecution theory that Shobana had given her daughter food mixed with pesticide known as phorate, the bench said: “Had poison been mixed with the food, the smell of organophosphorous poison would have emanated which would not have missed the nose of the prosecution witnesses. The undigested food should have been present in her stomach.We find absolutely no convincing evidence to hold that it was this accused that killed the girl.“
 
