BENGALURU: Imagine riding on an unknown highway in the middle of the night cutting through torrential rain, with wind lashing at a speed of 60 km/hour. 

  This is exactly what a trio from Lucknow is doing.  , 26, an event organizer,  , 48, a tattoo artist and owner of a hair salon and  , 26, all members of a group called UP32 Bulletiers, have begun their 7,000km journey and reached Bengaluru on Friday. 
 
  The trio, which started from Lucknow on the wee hours of March 15 on Royal Enfields, aims to spread awareness about road accidents that claim thousands of lives every day. However, little did they realize that this journey with a mission would have them face extreme on-road situations and give them life-long experiences to treasure. 
 
  From dragging a punctured bike for 60km on a deserted road, riding through thunderstorms and bumpy stretches and getting burnt in the scorching heat - the three musketeers managed to cover a distance of 1,700km in just two days. 
 
  "We are passionate riders and have always wanted to go on a road trip on our favourite Enfields. Such trips might be common these days, but to make ours different we planned to go on a mission trip and spread the message of road safety, quality riding and driving. Although we blame everyone around us, 90% of road accidents take place because of our own carelessness. Even if we can contribute to saving one life through our journey, we'd have made a difference," said Aditya. 
 
  On the way, these crusaders on wheels are busy distributing pamphlets on safe riding and driving to people at roadside petrol bunks and stalls. Also, in every city, they are gathering a group of local   bikers and interacting with them on simple road-safety rules, thus preparing them to be messengers of safe riding. 
 
  "The ride hasn't been an easy one and we used all our might to cover 900km on the very first day. The weather is sultry and the roads aren't that great. Also, riding all day and night is quite tiring. However, the excitement and our will to reach out to as many people as possible inspired us to carry on. We try and catch up with every rider passing by without a helmet or driver violating traffic rules, and caution them about the key causes of accidents. One ought to realize that there's nothing cool about violating traffic rules," added Atul. 
 
