Actor Varun Dhawan has revealed that as a kid he danced with   in a bus. 

 "My dad (David Dhawan) did a film 'Yaraana' with Madhuri mam and Rishi Kapoor sir. They were shooting in Switzerland. In the bus we used to play songs and I used to dance a lot with her. She told me recently the way I used to dance with her I have not danced like that on screen," Varun told reporters here at the song launch of 'Tamma Tamma'.
 
 "She said the day I dance like that I will be free and will be enjoying. I did not think that time I was dancing with the country's biggest star," he said. 
 
 Varun's co-star from the film 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania'   jokingly said, "This was your 'Chaiya Chaiya' (referring to the popular train song of Shah Rukh Khan and  ) moment in bus with Madhuri." 
 
 The original 'Tamma Tamma' song featuring Madhuri Dixit and   from the 1989 film 'Thanedaar' became extremely popular. Varun said he also shook a leg with Dutt. 
 
  
  
 "I knew I am going to do this song ('Tamma Tamma') in my career. I was 16 year old, I was working out with Sanjay Dutt in his gym. He had this song, I told him if I can play the song and he said ok. We put it on and he was dancing. I went mad seeing him," he said. 
 
 "I was imagining if I do the song what will happen, people will go mad. And it has happened. It you dream it it can happen," he added. "I remember meeting Sanju sir as he used to spend lot of time with my father (Mahesh Bhatt). So he knows me since I was a child. I think I met Madhuri when I became am actor," Alia said. 
 
 Varun and Alia said both Madhuri and Dutt loved the new version of song. "We feel blessed and honored that all of them have given their blessings for the song. We hope the song is liked by all," director Shashank Khaitan said. 
 
 "I was studying filmmaking in college and whenever we used to listen to this song we used to dance, we were fan of 90s songs. I used to wish that this song has to be there in my films," said Shashank. Produced by   and Fox Star Studios, 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' is set to release on March 10.
 
  
  
  
  
 
