BHUBANESWAR: Two brothers riding a bike went berserk and attacked a group of policemen when they were stopped and asked to   for not wearing helmets. The incident happened at the busy AG Square and in   

 Three constables were injured and had to be hospitalized after Anil Rout, who was riding the bike without wearing a helmet, took out a knife and slashed at one of the policemen's throat. Anil's elder brother Tanmay, who was riding pillion, also joined in and assaulted the the others. The police said the two attempted to flee but were overpowered and arrested. 
 
 The trio - Rohan Kumar Swain, Mahendra Kumar Biswal and Gyana Ranjan Das - were discharged from Capital Hospital following treatment. 
 
 The incident occurred around noon when the police intercepted Anil, who was coming from   and was headed towards Kalpana. 
 
 "Our personnel stopped the bike and asked the traffic rule violator to pay Rs 500 fine. Anil picked up a quarrel with our personnel and insisted that he be allowed to go. When our personnel did not allow him to go without paying fine, he took out a knife from his bag and slashed Biswal's neck," assistant commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI. 
 
 Police said the two brothers attempted to flee after attacking Biswal. "When our other staffers caught hold of the duo, they assaulted them as well. Our personnel managed to overpower the duo. We lodged a complaint at Capital police station against the two brothers," Panda added. 
 
 The police are scanning the CCTV footages of AG Square to ascertain what really happened. Anil, who stays in Badagada Brit Colony, owns a shop in the city which sells fruits. 
 
 Tanmay defended the action of his younger brother saying he suffers from mental disorder. "Due to his mental illness, he never thinks of the consequences. I did not attack anyone," Tanmay claimed.
 
 This is not an isolated incident for at least seven traffic constables were attacked at different junctions in the city in the past one-and-a-half years here. "We often have to face the wrath of unruly traffic offenders when they are asked to pay the fine," Panda said.
 
 
