SURAT: A fast-growing group of citizens, already about 200-strong, is working to clear water   from the  , a task in which authorities seemed to have failed abysmally. From employees of private firms and businessmen to retired professors, all have joined hands to pool funds and efforts in the ‘Clean River, Love River’ campaign, which, until now, has only limited support from the authorities.

  “We sometimes get earthmovers from SMC, but we mostly depend on other options. If we get regular support, we guarantee giving back a water hyacinth-free   fit for photo sessions,” says Sagar Vasoya, 24, a diamond tool manufacturer who began the initiative. 
 
 Over the last two months, the group has removed around 1,000 tonnes of the invasive plant species, originally a native of the Amazon basin in South America. 
 
 Water hyacinth creates filth in river water and also damages machinery of intake wells used for fetching drinking water for the city. Since years, the problem has continued without any permanent solution, despite huge spending by SMC.
 The group led by Vasoya cleans several tonnes of the weed from the river every day and piles them on the banks, from where vehicles of   Municipal Corporation, if available, pick up the plants for waste disposal.
 
 “This group of young men is doing a great job by taking up the task to make Tapi water-hyacinth free. Many like me have joined hands with them to support the cause,” said Pankaj Hiradhar, professor and retired head of the bio-science department at VNSGU.
 As water hyacinth slows down water flow and leads to water stagnation, it also creates conditions for mosquito breeding patches in the river. Vasoya, who lives only about 100 metres from the banks of Tapi in Nana Varachha, decided to do something about the menace and sat down with other local residents to find a solution, about two months ago.
  
  The group met SMC officials, and also discussed options with some fishermen. “But no one had a clear solution,” said Vasoya.
 
 “SMC officials told us they have no concrete or accurate plan about keeping the river free of water hyacinths. Hence, we decided to do something by ourselves,” Vasoya added.
 Gradually, the word began to spread and people began to join the effort. Now people from other areas, too, are joining the drive to clean the river.
 
 The members of the group come from different walks of life. Most who run businesses contribute two to three hours daily, while those who work in private firms give their time on Sundays. Each group member also contributes a small amount of money, and now there is a fund of Rs 1 lakh for petty expenditure. 
 
 In the beginning, the volunteers had tried to remove water hyacinths from waters of the Tapi with tools meant for use by hand. But they soon understood that the work requires heavy machinery. They started hiring earthmovers and cranes to remove water hyacinth in bulk.
 
 “We watched some videos on social media on using hand-rigged cranes to lift cows and put them on another side of a border fence. We developed the same type of manual lift crane with which we can lift around 250 kilo water hyacinth by net,” said Vasoya.
 
 “Later, we used the same idea and made a bigger net which is lifted by a bigger crane,” Vasoya added.
 
 The group spends about Rs 6,000 per day to hire earthmovers and cranes. They recently removed around 300 tonnes of water hyacinth from the river in a day using heavy machinery.
 
 “We are now creating awareness to stop people from throwing waste in the river. We are developing video films in which religious preachers will request people,” said Amit Patoliya, 26, a member of the group.
  
  “We are also roping in priests from the city to ensure that waste after puja is thrown in garbage bins and not in river water,” Patoliya added.
 
 Men and even women like Vidhi Jain, who work with Shree Ram Krishna Foundation (SRKF), are coming forward to support the cause. 
 
 “I help the group by writing content for them and help them work on new ideas. I recently came in touch with them through Kamlesh Yagnik, president of SRKF, and joined them as it is a very important issue,” said Jain.
 
 The group is dissatisfied with the events like marathon for clean Tapi in which Rs 2 crores was spent, but nothing was done to make the river clean. “If that money was spent for actual cleaning of the river the results could have been much better,” Vasoya said.
 
 
