NOIDA: Two bus depots of Gautam Budh Nagar are all set to get   connection from August 1. However, cleanliness and enough seats for passengers still continue to evade them.

 Bus stations of   and   are among those slated to have the facility soon with the government taking steps to make 300 bus stations statewide Wi-Fi-enabled, 50 more than what the SP government had in mind. The SP government had issued tenders for introducing Wi-Fi facility in 250 bus stations and 10,500 UP Roadways buses on January 27 this year.
 
 The BJP government’s plan includes extension of Wi-Fi facility to the 13 airconditioned buses running from the station in Noida’s Sector 35. “The government has given the contract to a Mumbai-based company for installing the Wi-Fi devices at these bus stations between May 2 and July 31,” Satyendra Verma, assistant regional manager, UP Roadways, GB Nagar, said.
 
 While the bus depots of GB Nagar are better placed than the other districts of the state like Etah, Barabanki, Aligarh, Bulandshahr and Hapur in terms of facilities available, some commuters have called it a waste of money suggesting that the government sho-uld first focus on the cleanliness of the bus stations. “I visited the Bulandshahr   around two months ago and the men’s toilet was so dirty that people preferred to urinate outside rather than use the toilet. The government should spend more on cleanliness of the toilets and surroundings of the bus stands rather than things like Wi-Fi,” Bunty Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad, said.
 
 While the bus depots of Noida and Greater Noida have toilets, water coolers and seats for visitors, some residents have complained about the unclean conditions and inadequate number of seats installed at the depots.
 
 Alok Singh, members of the Active Citizens’ Team of Greater Noida, said that while making the buses Wi-Fi enabled can help the commuters carry on with the official work even when they are travelling, the government should prioritise construction of toilets at the bus stations.
 
 
