BENGALURU: BJP state president   on Saturday said corruption charges will not pose any obstacle to him in becoming the next chief minister of the state, if the BJP is elected to power.

 In an interaction with the media, Yeddyurappa said: “All the chief ministers have indulged in denotifications. I have only two cases related to that pending in courts; I’ve been acquitted of all other cases. There’s no question of corruption being an issue for people to elect me as the next CM.”
 
 The former CM was named in a series of quid pro quo situations in illegal mining and denotification cases which favoured Prerna Trust run by his sons B Y Vijendra and Shikaripura MLA B Y Raghavendra. 
 
 Yeddyurappa said he will seek votes on the development mantra and the corruption allegations against the   government will help in his cause to be once again elected the CM of  .
 
 On his chief ministerial candidature also facing a concern with him turning 75 in 2018, and the BJP having a blanket ban on people above that age functioning in active politics, Yeddyurappa dismissed it saying when the party’s national president Amit Shah has officially reaffirmed his candidature, it’s not an issue at all.
 
 Yeddyurappa, flanked by his old entourage of MLAs R Ashoka, Arvind Limbavali, S Suresh Kumar and  , reiterated that his first agenda after coming to power is to waive farmer loans vested with the state government.
 
 When questioned as to why he’s not promising any efforts towards waiving farmer loans procured from nationalized banks, Yeddyurappa said: “The matter does not fall under my purview and I’m not authorized to speak in this regard. But, I will talk to Shah and also the government.”
 
 The state BJP’s core committee will meet on Sunday. This will be the first meeting after Yeddyurappa has been officially declared as the CM candidate. 
 
  ‘People want me to contest from Shikaripura’
 
 Fielding questions over where he would contest the 2018 elections, B S Yeddyurappa said there’s an overwhelming demand for him to contest from Shikaripura, his home turf. 
 
 But considering his son and incumbent MLA, B Y Raghavendra represents the constituency, the Shivamogga M P said all the decisions will be taken after discussions with local leaders.
 
 “There’s a demand from people for me to contest from Shikaripura. But a decision on the future of my son will be taken after discussions with the locals,” he said.
 
