Stretched across 7.5 km inside   area, the ‘nature trail’ offers an opportunity to visitors to explore the best of jungles. After long delays, the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) has completed this project with some new added attractions to boost tourism and create environmental awareness among people. We find out what all are in store for the Nagpurians…

 
 
 Although the month of February is approaching its end — a time when migratory birds take back flight in search of suitable perches, in Gorewada however one can find variety of resident birds in their natural habitat. Assistant conservator of forest, Gorewada Vishal Borhade says, “Over the years, Gorewada has emerged as a popular birdwatchers’ destination in the city and to attract more birdwatchers, we have constructed pagodas in every 2.5 km of the   from where they can spot beautiful resident birds including peafowl, yellow footed green pigeon; and the most popular Nagpur oriental honey buzzard among others. The average footfall of birdwatchers is currently 100 per month and we are hoping that with this newly constructed pagodas, more birdwatchers will visit here.”
 
 
 The Gorewada authorities have now started tie-ups with city colleges to help collegians carry out thorough research in environmental studies. Borhade informs, “Every week more than 20 students visit here to conduct research on environmental science and fishery. The new thing which we have added to our trail is an information board detailing the scientific definition of hundred-year-old trees in our habitat and it comes handy for the students who want to study about environment.”
 
 
 
 While  ,   and student research are some of the key activities at the nature trail, the forest authorities have made special arrangements for health and fitness enthusiast in the forest. Elaborating on this, Vishal Borhade adds, “We have constructed three yoga machans overlooking the Gorewada Lake at the nature trail. These machans are quite popular among yoga and fitness enthusiasts who come here every morning. The best part about this machan is the spectacular view of the city that one gets to see. These machans are constructed in strategic spots from where one can also sight deers, peacocks and other wild animals who often come to drink water there.”
 
 
 
 Morning walkers from nearby residential areas visit Gorewada regularly to give their day a healthy start and with this nature trail, people get to do a lot more than just take a walk. ACF Borhade adds, “We have meticulously designed the path of the nature trail that winds along the undulating lakeshore, bringing unexpected natural beauty at each turn. With the lake on one side and the forest on the other, morning walkers have a chance to explore the natural surroundings of the forest while they walk and exercise. By paying a nominal fee of `30 people can visit nature trail. ”
 
