Mumbai: Shares of   fell nearly 8% in the stock exchanges after the bank said that 21% of its loans had turned into gross   (NPAs). The bank reported a net loss of Rs 3,200 crore for the quarter ended March 2017, up from Rs 1,735 crore in the corresponding quarter in FY16. The bank is seeking to appoint a consultant to submit a turnaround plan to the  .

 Following the losses, IDBI Bank’s tier-1 capital adequacy ratio fell to 5.64% of loans from 7.24% in the corresponding quarter in the previous year. The bank had been placed on the RBI’s watch list for prompt corrective action (PCA) days before the results. According to the RBI, if any bank’s tier-1 capital adequacy falls below 3.62%, that bank would be a likely candidate for resolution through tools like  ,   or winding up. IDBI Bank’s tier-I capital has shrunk to 5.64% from 7.98% last year due to  .
 
 The bank also appointed key changes in senior positions. In a release to the stock exchange, the bank said that it has named M V Phadke, executive director as the internal auditor replacing incumbent Umesh Jain, chief general manager. The bank also replaced chief risk officer Hirnmoy Biswas with Ajoy Nath Jha.
 
 Although the bank saw its loans shrink from Rs 2.15 lakh crore in Q4FY16 to Rs 1.90 lakh in Q4FY17, the bank managed to report a 14% rise in net interest income due to a drop in cost of funds following demonetisation. The smaller balance sheet helped the bank improve its priority sector lending ratio. However, bad loan provisions of Rs 5,333 crore during the quarter dragged the company’s earning to a record loss.With the losses for the third quarter, the bank has reported two consecutive years of losses. Total losses for the year ended March 2017 stand at Rs 5,158 crore up from Rs 3,664 crore from the corresponding quarter last year.
 
 For a bank that was touted as candidate to demonstrate the government’s commitment to financial sector reforms, the results are quite alarming. The government had earlier said that it would pare its stake in the bank. There were reports that Asian Development Bank and International Finance Corporation would be brought in as strategic investors.
 
 
