KOCHI: As preparations for the   are underway the civic body needs to ensure that it pays enough attention for the   in the city.

 On this front, it has a dismal history, be it honouring the city's cultural icons or encouraging setting up of  .
 
 The corporation named a playground after P J Antony, the first actor from the state to secure a national award, in recognition of his contributions. Now, the ground is used more like a dump yard by the corporation, where it deposits the garbage collected from the city before transporting it to the waste treatment plant in Brahmapuram.
 
 Two years ago, a proposal to construct a performing arts centre in his name was submitted before the corporation.The project was backed by the  . The centre was supposed to have an auditorium and accommodation facilities for visiting artistes but the project did not take off, thanks to the lackadaisical attitude of the corporation authorities. MLA Hibi Eden had offered Rs 5 crore for the cultural centre.
 
 “We had held several rounds of talks with the authorities of the Delhi School of Drama. An architect was handpicked for preparing the blueprint of the project. But the project didn't materialize due to the apathetic attitude of the corporation authorities,“ said a former councillor.
 
 In the 60s and 70s, film buffs from across the state used to flock to   in Fort Kochi run by late film producer T K Pareekkutty . “It was the first 70mm air-conditioned theatre in the state and had screened a lot of classics from across the world,“ said K J Sohan, former mayor. Now, Kochi badly misses such a cultural space. This is despite the fact that the corporation can reclaim more than 50 cents of land which had been leased out to a private film production and distribution house and the theatre after paying just Rs 60 lakh. “Once the corporation takes back the theatre, a multiplex can be built there for organizing international film festivals,“ said P M Harris, chairman, standing committee for works, Kochi Corporation. The KSFDC has decided to roll out cinemas across the state provided any individual or agency is ready to offer land.
 
 Even in the case of libraries, the corporation's efforts have been found wanting. It runs five libraries but pays little attention to ensure that they are run well.
 
