NEW DELHI: On Monday, when the organizing committee and the All India   Federation ( ) decided to kick off ticket sales for the Under-17 World Cup by awarding it to kin of the  's 1911 IFA Shield-winning captain, they were displaying a convenient sense of history.

 You couldn't help but think how easy it is to borrow legacy, prop it up for the cameras, but wouldn't care less when the idea itself is rapidly going to seed. You turn a blind eye as the traditional clubs face a bleak future, closure even, yet do not cringe when invoking their name to showcase your vision to the world.
 
 Shibdas Bhaduri, Mohun Bagan's captain when they beat East Yorkshire Regiment in an unlikely fillip in the early struggle for Independence, would probably have been turning in his grave today.
 
 Bhaduri's Mohun Bagan immediately became the paradigm to measure all sporting defiance with that famous victory in 1911. Today, in a scenario not dissimilar in Indian football, the club faces a struggle to preserve its existence and identity. If the ways of Reliance-IMG and the ISL in imposing a new order in Indian football, and the connivance of the AIFF, is not imperialism of another kind, then what is?
 
 These are worrying times for Indian football.  's assertion that the I-League will run alongside the ISL, ostensibly as India's national league, is cause for alarm. In the absence of sponsors and investment ­ and the free rein accorded to the ISL ­ it will swiftly be reduced to a mere junior league with top players opting for the other commercial attractions.
 
 Apart from clubs folding up, the unemployment of players in the coming months or years is going to be a major issue that is not being addressed. Furthermore, AIFF's top brass's lobbying with the Asian Football Confederation for an extra competition berth to accommodate an ISL franchise should they get that far, smacks of a great sell-out. Far from helping protect the I-League clubs that they are directly responsible for, the AIFF is abetting their demise.
 
 Then there is the misconception that the ISL is the answer ­ a perception furthered by a recent generation of football followers armed with a strange but misplaced sense of vigilantism on social media. They forget that money, foreign talent and a lucrative TV deal alone is not the answer. Else, England should have the World Cup a few times over since the Premiership began in 1992.
 
 Despite the high-handed manner in which the ISL listed out its expansion plans, with no room for an additional team from the North East, or even a chance for India's champion club,  , or that Bengaluru FC and   are still keen on picking up the offer, only shows where things are headed.
 
 Will this solve the ills in Indian sport? Well, at the next global meet that we get to host, there will be no spirit of Shibdas Bhaduri or Mohun Bagan to get all nostalgic about, simply because they won't exist anymore.
 
