TRICHY: Apart from shortage of drinking   this summer, there has been a sudden spurt in the number of   cases in   and surrounding areas in the district in the last few weeks. Taking serious note of the issue, the   has intensified medical camps in the areas. 

 Around 50 cases of fever including typhoid and dengue, since mid March, have been reported from Aalipatti, Solaipatti and urban areas Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and Indira Gandhi Nagar in Manapparai municipality. 
 
 An investigation conducted by the health department has revealed that unsafe storage of water and contaminated water supply to be the probable causes. Aalipatti and Solaipatti villages depended on a bore well for drinking water. Since the bore well went dry, it has been difficult for the panchayat administration to provide drinking water supply every day. Due to the shortage, people began storing water in unprotected vessels which provided mosquitoes to breed. Aedes mosquitoes which cause dengue will breed in clean water only. 
 
 “The supply of water in public taps has become very irregular during the summer putting the people at severe inconvenience. Each water tap would resemble a battlefield as people would rush to the spot to get their share of water. They would store it in open barrels,” said Mohammed Hussain from Manapparai. 
 
 The case of Solaipatti is worse than Aalipatti as people in the village got water only once in a week. 
 
 Manapparai municipality was depending on the water supply from the Cauvery combined water scheme from Manalthattai in Kulithalai in Karur with Manapparai as the endpoint. Out of 27 wards in the municipality, the water was supplied once in two days to 18 wards and once in three days to nine wards. 
 
 Manapparai municipal commissioner Pappammal said that the municipality would create awareness among the people on keeping the water clean to avoid such diseases. “In case of power cuts, the water will not reach us for two hours. We will sensitise the people about the consequences of not protecting water,” Ponnammal told TOI. 
 
 The health department has put up medical camps to monitor the fever cases. “Unsafe storage of water will lead to mosquito breeding. Likewise, low quantity of water will be contaminated easily. As of now, the cases occur sporadically. We are closely monitoring them. The medical teams will be put in urban areas also,” Dr I Raveendran, deputy director of health services, Trichy, told TOI on Friday.
 
