BHUBANESWAR: Amid the BJP’s state-wide celebrations of panchayat election outcome as ‘vote for change,’ chief minister   on Monday asserted that the Biju   (BJD) will comfortably return to power in 2019 elections.

 The BJD has come out first by bagging 473 of the 846 zilla parishad seats, results of which were announced on Sunday. The BJP has finished second by bagging 297 seats. However, the saffron party has been celebrating its performance as signal of political change in its favour, citing its quantum jump of seats from 36 in 2012 rural poll and replacing the Congress as BJD’s main political rival. The Congress has got only 60 seats less than half of its tally of 128 in 2012.
 
 Reacting to the rural polls outcome outside the assembly, Naveen said people have reposed faith on the BJD by returning it as largest party with absolute majority with 56% seats. “I am confident that BJD will again return to office in 2019 with a thumping majority with the blessings of the people by virtue of our good work,” said Naveen who is on his fourth term in a row as CM.
 
 Naveen’s reaction comes a day after oil minister and BJP’s most prominent face in Odisha,   Pradhan, on Sunday predicted “Nabakalebara (regime change)” in   in 2019 when assembly election is due. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cited BJP’s Odisha victory twice in election rallies in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Though the BJP has alleged large-scale rigging and irregularities in poll to BJD’s advantage, Naveen thanked people for “exercising their franchise freely and fearlessly in this grassroots election. It is the ultimate victory of democratic devolution, which my governmnet is always committed to.”
 
 Stating that BJD did well in most districts barring a few exceptions, Naveen said, “We accept the verdict of people with all humility and very positively. Though they are generally happy with our performance, want us to do some course correction. They have given us a golden opportunity for serious introspection and want us to perform even better.”
 
 Naveen said the BJD will review its performance very seriously and shall apply suitable corrective measures both in terms of government and on organizational issues. “We shall work harder,” he said.
 
 Reacting to Naveen’s forecast for 2019, BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said if a party is happy after its seat count went down by more than 200 seats (BJD’s ZP seats were 651 in 2012), then nobody can help it. “People have clear voted for change. By 2019, the situation will change further against the BJD and in favour of the BJP,” Sharma said.
 
