(By - Bharat Khanna)

 With More buses on profitable routes,   (PRTC) will enjoy monopoly in the state, says its new managing director  . He had also served as the MD of the   in 2015 and was transferred after 10 months.On taking over the state-run corporation again,   spoke to TOI and maintained that influential private transporters would opt out with the profitable routes being allotted to the PRTC.
 What will be your primary agenda for improving the services and financial health of the PRTC?
 
 We are going to bring a promising change in the behaviour of drivers and conductors. First of all, they will be given uniforms. They will trained to create and nurture familylike environment in the buses. The rules are going to be more stringent and in true spirit. There will be monopoly of state-run buses instead of private operators. So far, private buses had monopoly in the state and it sometimes even led to exploitation of passengers. This is going to be changed soon.
 
 
 At present we have 1,075 buses in  , of which 1,040 are already on road.Our target is to increase the number to over 1,200 in the current year. In this short time, there will be around 100 more buses and 150 HVAC buses. In my last tenure as MD, I wanted to bring these buses but somehow it could not happen following my transfer. But it was my dream to uplift the financial condition of the PRTC and make it passenger friendly.
 
 
 The PRTC is running in losses. As of today, it is facing losses of Rs 1.05 crore daily. We have a target of covering 3.5 lakh km everyday. During my previous tenure, the PRTC was running in losses but I improved its financial health by making profits of Rs 30 lakh daily. However after my transfer, it again went into losses.
 
 
 Recently, 10 mini-buses were launched by the state government. We will bring 40 more mini-buses on village routes. This will also be a step to break the monopoly of private buses on these routes.
 
 
 Yes, it is in our prime agenda. Each bus from every district of Punjab will run to the Delhi airport.Tax on this route, where buses, including those run by private companies, will be increased. Private transporters are charging hefty fare from passengers.We will give better service on this route and that, too, at lower fares.
 
 
 The norms, I said, will be made more stringent and swift action will be taken against any offence. The private transporters having monopoly on profitable routes will themselves leave the business. A complete check will be undertaken to stop all illegal activities that were said to be prevailing during the previous government rule. We'll keep informed the government timely about any illegal activity taking place.
 
