MUMBAI: Despite the state government’s claims of having set up a system to avoid irregularities in the loan waiver scheme, fresh complaints have been received from farmers about bank and credit society staff fudging bank records to show a large number outstanding accounts to maximize gains from the scheme.

 Written complaints received by the co-operation departments from farmers, some copies of which are with TOI, show officials from some district central co-operative banks or primary agriculture credit societies (PACS), which give agricultural loans to farmers, have shown backdated outstanding loans in the names of these farmers and are now asking them to apply for the loan waiver.
 
 Kisan Beldar, a farmer from   taluka from   district, is one of the many complainants who has written to co-operation minister Subhash  .
 
  Along with his letter he has attached proof of the certificate given by the PACS in his village showing there is no outstanding amount on his account. “Despite this, I have received a letter from the society saying that I have Rs 72,000 outstanding amount in my name. According to the records this loan was taken in 2013 and the certificate which says that I have no outstanding in my name was given by the same society in 2016. Then how did I not know about the Rs 72,000 unpaid loan?” said Beldar in the letter. He alleged the society officials have taken a loan in his name and made a backdated entry and are now asking him to apply for the loan waiver scheme to get his outstanding loan waived off.
 
 The state government’s ambitious waiver scheme covers outstanding loans from 2012 and the upper limit for the waiver is Rs 1.5 lakh. The last day to submit applications for the waiver was September 22 and nearly 58 lakh farmers have applied for the scheme. The number is much lower than the government’s predicted figure of 89 lakh this will also bring down the quantum of funds required considerably, said officials.
 
 Another farmer, Dagdu Chougule, who sent a complaint said the credit society in his village shows that a Rs 40,000 loan which was taken by him in 2014 is still unpaid. “I have paid all the outstanding amount to the society and had closed the account in 2015. How did the society close my account if I had money to pay them? They have fudged records to get maximum benefits from the loan waiver scheme,” said Chougule. He has also asked Deshmukh to investigate the matter.
 
 Officials said that collectors of the districts from where such complaints have come have been asked to investigate them. They also said what was most interesting was that none of the outstanding loans that these bank officials have drawn in the name of the farmers are more than Rs 1.5 lakh, which is the maximum loan waiver limit. “They have played it safe. All the amounts shown by them are less than Rs 1.5 lakh, they are hoping to get all the money paid by the government and then these accounts can be closed without any hassle,” said a official. 
 
