MUMBAI: In an effort to recycle the plastic and other waste washed ashore, the   is joining the movement to clean the  . From last Sunday, the association is providing nine workers and a tractor to clean the beach round the year.

 The solid and plastic waste management rules notified last year provide for extended producers responsibility (EPR). It means producers of plastic bear a responsibility to pick up the litter, a concept prevalent and practised in several developed nations.
  
  
 The association, said its president  , is aiming at recycling the plastic and other waste washed up along the 2.8 km stretch of the Mumbai beach. It joins a movement that began with a lawyer and UN earth champ  , who, in 2015, along with one neighbour started cleaning the thick layer of litter with their bare hands. 
  
  
 The movement, which gathered a strong volunteer base with non-Versova residents, students, actors, housewives, businessmen, children, fishermen, professionals and United Nations Patron Of the Ocean Lewis Pugh as well as the UN Environment Programme chief Erik Solheim chipping in, enters its 80th weekend. So far five million kg of plastic and other waste has been removed.
  
  
 The BMC has been providing two JCBs, one tractor and 18 civic workers for over a year now and assistant engineer, solid waste, Chandan Shive drops in to supervise at times. The UN Environment was the first to recognize the enormity of the ‘inspirational initiative,’’ and last December awarded Shah with a UN Champion of the Earth, an honor earlier given to the Mexican President Felipe Calderon, former US vice president Al Gore and National Geographic Society.
 
 At Shah’s requestto “comply with their duty towards the environment”, the association’s environment chief   has volunteered at the weekend clean-ups since last July. Bhargav told TOI: “We first worked to understand the nature of the problem. We found the waste is washed in from four nallas along shanties elsewhere into the ocean, which, with the current, is then dumped into Versova beach... The tractor and workers is just our first step. We are working with other environment companies to help recycle the waste. What we do not want is for the plastic debris to go another landfill... We understand the science and will put in an ecosystem.’’
 
 Sanghvi who said the association had earlier worked with BMC for waste segregation, added, “Since the 2005 floods, the filteration system has stopped and waste just moves into the ocean without check... Our endevour is to ensure that waste is considered a source of income and gets good value…like ghar ka raddi.’’ Shah sees it as “a step towards complying with their constitutional duty.’’
 
