There’s one interaction I had with   which I’ll never forget. It has popped up in my memory several times over the years. Today I feel like sharing it.

 Sometime in the 90s he came to know I was in Mumbai, and called up my hotel: “There’s a song in my new film I’d love you to sing for me, Remo,” he said. “The music track has been recorded already with the music director singing the rough guide vocal. It’s been created with you in mind. I was going to call you up in Goa, but since you’re in Mumbai, would you be able to do it during this trip itself?”
 
 I'd come to town for a gig on the next day, and had that very evening free, so I said sure. At the appointed time he sent his driver to pick me up – with the full payment in advance. A rare practice in Bollywood.
 
 In the studio I heard the song and gave it a try. In fact I gave it several tries. But unfortunately the background music had been recorded in a key which was much too high for me. So I could see it hadn’t really been created ‘with me in mind’ – but that didn’t bother me. People in Bollywood often told actors and singers that roles and songs had been created specifically with them in mind, I guess to satisfy egos which were in want of satisfaction.
 
 I told Vinod I didn't wish to sing the song as I wouldn’t be doing it justice in that key, and he   Instead he used the remaining hired studio time to order for snacks and tea, over which we had a nice long chat about everything from films to spirituality.
 
 As we said goodbye, I told him I’d send the payment back with his driver. He absolutely refused, and when I insisted, he gave orders to his driver not to bring back anything at all. “You’ve given a whole evening of your time, Remo; you’ve really tried your best to sing the song, and have even strained your   in the process. That, in my book, has made the payment rightfully yours. It’s not your fault that the music director recorded it in a key which is wrong for you.”
 
 A rare occurrence in Bollywood, where there are people who refuse to pay up even after you’ve done the job to their full satisfaction.
 
 Goodbye, Vinod Khanna. A   who turned his back on films and went off on a spiritual quest at the height of his success. And above all – a true gentleman.
 
 The writer is an internationally-acclaimed  
 
