CUTTACK: Khalid Jamil egged his wards on with his words in the half-time before they scored the all-important equaliser against Shillong Lajong in I-League last week. It must have been a repeat of the same in the dressing room at Baramati Stadium on Sunday as Aizawl began their Federation Cup campaign with a 3-2 win against  .

 In the first half,   were just a shadow of the team that enthralled one and all. The touches were lame, the passes were inaccurate, the moves were almost non-existent. And Chennai City FC took the advantage of their opponents' laggard show to make the score 0-2 in their favour. Brazilian Charles de Souza, who scored the first goal, and youngster   were impressive in the first half, along with the scorer of the second -  .
 
 But Aizawl came out of the dugout with the same eleven but a different attitude in the second half. They picked up the pace, created some brilliant moves and, most importantly, turned the match on its head to score three times in 28 minutes to win the contest. While Mahmoud al Amna began the rout for his team, it was a superb brace from winger Laldanmawia Ralte that got them the desired winning start to their campaign.
 
 With the other match in Group A, between   and Churchill Brothers ending in a draw, the three points took Aizawl to the top, followed by East Bengal, Churchill and Chennai City.
 
 
 
 
 Wedson Anselme's brilliant goal was not enough for East Bengal as Churchill Brothers rallied to secure a 1-1 draw in their Federation Cup opener at   on Sunday, reports Nilesh Bhattacharya Wedson produced a moment of magic as he sprinted from near the centre circle to score in the 66th minute. But Churchill's Liberian striker   played spoilsport for the red and golds again when he netted the equalizer 14 minutes later.
 
 It's true that unlike their last meeting on March 7, when Churchill Brothers rode on goals from   and Kromah to dent East Bengal's I-League title hopes with a 2-1 win, it didn't end in defeat for the Kolkata side on Sunday. But defensive woes continued to haunt them, turning their next match against Chennai City FC on Tuesday into a must-win situation. Churchill will take on I-League champions Aizawl FC on the same day. East Bengal could have gone two goals up had Willis Plaza not missed a couple of gilt-edged opportunities in the opening half. But time and again, their disorganized defence pushed them to the brink of danger. Kromah cashed in one such opportunity, but he was also guilty of wasting several chances and letting East Bengal off the hook.
 
 The 4 pm kick-off in hot and humid conditions meant the tournament opener got off to a sedate start with players from both teams refusing to chase the ball running their socks off.
 
 It was Churchill's Trinidad &Tobago striker Wolfe who became the first victim of the oppressive conditions, suffering an injury and being replaced by Pankaj Sona. Then it was East Bengal goalkeeper  's turn to leave the pitch with a groin problem 13 minutes after halftime, paving the way for Rehenesh TP's return to action for the first time since April 16. 
 
