NEW DELHI: To put on hold the proposed  , chief minister Arvind   has directed Delhi government’s representatives in Delhi   Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) board of directors to give an “immediate notice” for an emergency meeting.

 The task has been entrusted to chief secretary MM Kutty, who represents the government in the DMRC Board along with the transport commissioner.
 
 The decision was taken in a meeting attended by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, transport minister Kailash Gahlot, Kutty, principal secretary finance, transport commissioner and other senior officials.
 
 “It is beyond any reasonable understanding as to how a 100% fare hike has been recommended by DMRC in the 5-21 km segment that has the maximum ridership. Also, 50% of this hike has already been implemented in May,” the government said in a statement.
 
 The statement pointed out that “DMRC’s own data shows that the fare hike in May resulted in ridership decreasing by 5% in June 2017. In the same month in the last two years, the ridership had gone up by 8% and 9%.” 
 
 It added that Metro ridership decreased by 5% in August this year, while it had increased by 8% in the same month in 2015 and 2016.
 
 Delhi government has warned that “Delhi Metro’s decision to further burden its commuters, who are already reeling under the adverse impact of steep fare hike in May, will only result in reduced ridership forcing people to look for other modes of transport.”
 
 Justifying the need to hold the fare hike, the government stated that DMRC’s reduced ridership will only lead to more vehicular traffic on Delhi roads and weaken the fight against air pollution in winter months. 
 
 The AAP-led government said that it has “never interfered in DMRC’s functioning and has always supported its expansions, but it cannot accept such an anti-commuter move.”
 
 Meanwhile, AAP MLAs on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to DMRC demanding that the agency drop the proposal of hiking fares from October 10. “Why is DMRC in a hurry to hike fares within six months against the will of the people?” said AAP MLA from Burari, Sanjeev Jha.
 
 In its submission to the fare fixation committee of DMRC, Delhi government had opposed a hike. “Delhi Metro can think of other commercial means to increase revenue. The fare hike will reduce the number of Metro users and lead to a spurt of vehicles on the roads,” Jha said.
 
 
