PATNA: Bihar is emerging as a big market for farm equipment as the farmers, of late, are switching over to   due to huge shortage of agricultural workers in the state. 

 According to a study conducted recently, Bihar has a market three times bigger than West Bengal as far as sale of big farming machines like threshers, combined harvesters, rotavators and straw reapers is concerned. The changing pattern was witnessed at the four-day 7th  , which registered sales of farm equipment worth Rs6 crore in three days of the fair to conclude on Saturday. Till Friday, more than 25,000 farmers visited the fair with the theme: ‘A step towards farm mechanization’. The CII has been organizing the fair with state agriculture department since 2011. 
 
 “Even women farmers, who cannot afford a tractor, form cluster to buy one. There has been a 10% increase in the number of women tractor drivers in the last 3-4 years. Due to digitization, farmers are using Apps to educate themselves and explore new farming techniques and equipment,” claimed  , manager of a tractor manufacturing company.
 
 “There is a huge demand of farming tools and machines in the state. A training session is also organized at the venue to educate the farmers about pest control, irrigation methods and modern farming practices,” said CII director  .
 
 Over 100 firms have showcased their latest farming machines at the fair where NABARD, SBI, Madhya Bihar Gramin Bank and Syndicate Bank have also set up their stalls.
 
 “There is a great demand for tractors, combined harvesters, rotavators and straw reapers,” said R K Verma, joint director, agriculture engineering. A straw reaper also helps control environmental pollution, he said and added, “The power availability for agriculture in the state has increased from 1kW per hectare in 2011to 1.90 in 2014-2015, which is higher than the national average of 1.87. Bihar is emerging as top mechanized agricultural state in the country.”
 
 Arun Prasad Sinha from Lakhisarai said, “Machines are needed because there is a huge shortage of labourers as most of the farm workers have migrated to Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. I have come to the fair to buy a combined harvester which costs around 18 lakh. I had purchased a straw reaper in 2011.”
 
 Nowadays, educated people are also in farm and horticulture business, claimed Shailesh Kumar Singh, assistant director, animal and fisheries resources department.
 
 
