Bhopal: Raising doubts over the success of Rs 432 crore Narmada-Kshipra river linking scheme launched by the government on May 14, 2013,   from Ujjain South,  , has shot off a missive to the Speaker and principal secretary of the assembly to grant him permission for raising the issue in the House.

 “After spending crores of rupees   river is still contaminated with sewage being released from multiple sources. There were around 11 drainage channels in Ujjain from where the sewage water enters   and the matter is pending with the Indore bench of high court,” said Yadav while confirming his letter to the Speaker. In the letter, Yadav said the state government has spent crores of rupees on cleaning of the sacred river, but it is being contaminated by sewage water. The administration has failed to check pollution and devotees are compelled to take holy dip in the contaminated water, he said. “Poor administrative measures have maligned the state government’s image and therefore the Speaker should allow me to take up this issue in the House. The government has spent Rs 650 crore on the river development and cleaning so far, but to no avail,” reads the letter.
 
 Yadav also raised the problems being faced by Ujjain residents, as the contamination of river has affected potable water supply in parts of the temple town. Besides, people in several residential areas on Indore road, Dewas road and Maksi road are suffering from contagious diseases after consuming this contaminated water, he said. According to him, his aim is to draw the attention of authorities and compel the   to act swiftly to curb river pollution and supply of contaminated drinking water in the city. Yadav is known for raising controversial and public related issues while ignoring the party politics.
 
 Sources in the secretariat said that the Kshipra water is also contaminated by the water from the Kahn river that flows from Indore and joins Kshipra. More than 90% of the Indore’s untreated sewage and industrial effluents flow through Kahn. This water is the main source of Kshipra’s pollution. The contaminated water has affected the river to such an extent that more than 90 per cent of fish in the river has died, said sources. A similar situation has also cropped up in   where local Hiran river is contaminated by the drainage flowing from several sources. The river joins Narmada river that has also been contaminated by this water, disclosed officials in the secretariat.
 
 
