MADURAI: Summer has arrived and so have the mangoes. As the temperature soars, people have been going all out for the fruit heaped in various shades of yellow, green and red at the market. Being the start of the season, the price of the “king of fruits” is slightly on the higher side as the quantity of arrival is also less.

 Secretary of Madurai Fruit Commissioner Traders’ Welfare Association S A S Muruganandam says that the season actually starts by mid-April. However, the early fruits have already started coming in. At present the production is a bit dim thanks to the water scarcity. However, just a couple of rain spells in the coming days would help lift the production. Else, the fruit will stay costlier this year, he said. 
 
 Madurai mainly depends on other districts like Dindigul and Theni for mangoes. A variety of mangoes hits Madurai markets from pockets like Natham in Dindigul, Periyakulam and Bodinayakanur in Theni district. Mango trees in Madurai are mostly rainfed and cultivated in places like Alanganallur, Palamedu, Kadavoor and Alagarkovil. Mangoes from other distant districts and outside the state also arrive. The prominent varieties seen are Palamani, Banganapalli, Sendhuram, Imam Pasand and Neelam. 
 
 Traders say that the mangoes are sold between Rs 60 and Rs 100 a kilogram depending on their quality. While local varies like Banganapalli, Palamani and Sendhuram are sold at Rs 60, those from other states would be cost higher. “People do not hesitate to spend money on the fruit even if it is sold at a higher price. They only expect it to be meaty and tasty. The texture of the mango is also important since it attracts the customer the most,” says P Sakthivel, a fruit vendor from Anna Nagar. 
 
 Jubithaa Begum, a consumer from Koodalpudur, says “The cost is a bit higher at present. But I cannot wait for the price to come down. Whenever I visit the market I do not forget to purchase one or two kgs of mangoes as all in our family like to have them.”
 
 NATURAL Vs ARTIFICIAL 
 
 Naturally ripened mangoes 
 
 Ripen from interior towards surface 
 
 Have green patches on the surface 
 
 Artificially ripened mangoes 
 
 Ripen first on the surface 
 
 Consumers must suspect when mangoes are uniformly yellow or red in colour
 
 If ripened using calcium carbide, its dust will remain 
 
 MANGO POCKETS
 
 Mangoes for Madurai mostly come from Natham in Dindigul, Periyakulam and Bodinayakanur in Theni district
 
 In Madurai, mango is cultivated in pockets like Alanganallur, Kadavur, Palamedu and Alanganallur
 
