SALEM: Jallikattu event was cancelled at   here after local residents didn’t allow officials to enter the village and make arrangements for the conduct of the bull taming sport. State highways and small ports minister Edaipadi K Palanisamy was to inaugurate the event on Sunday.

 After the state government promulgated an ordinance on jallikattu on Saturday evening, chief minister   had announced plans to conduct jallikattu at Alanganallur in Madurai and also in every district on Sunday and urged ministers from the concerned district to inaugurate the event.
 
 Following this, Salem district collector V Sampath, district revenue officer R Sukumar and superintendent of police P Rajan chaired a meeting with officials of revenue and animal husbandry departments in Attur on Saturday around 10pm and decided to hold the bull taming sport at Koolaimedu on Sunday. Subsequently, they headed to the village to make the necessary arrangements.
 
 When the local residents came to know about this, they stopped the officials at the village border. They didn’t allow the officials, including the collector, to enter the village and told them that the bull taming sport would be held only after the ban on it was lifted forever.
 
 The collector tried his best to pacify the villagers, but in vain. The officials subsequently left the spot.
 
 Hoping that the villagers might allow them to carry out pre-event arrangements, the officials returned on Sunday. However, the villagers were adamant about not allowing them to conduct jallikattu.
 
 Minister Edaipadi K Palanisamy didn’t visit the village after the officials apprised him of the developments there and their decision to cancel the event. The officials said they were ready to hold the event whenever the villagers approach them.
 
 
 
 
 Salem: The villagers of Malaiyampatty near   here conducted jallikattu on Sunday. The villagers initially released four temple bulls and later another 15 one by one. More than 100 bull tamers participated in the event. The bull taming sport lasted for nearly three hours, the district collector said.
 
 
