HYDERABAD: City doctors warn that patients with   are more prone to suicides. Early detection of the problem will not only save the patient from mental trauma and suffering but also from suicidal tendencies.

 Though psychiatrists in the city recommend that people with suicidal behaviour should seek immediate medical support, the city does not have such a facility . Bipolar patients do not have specialised hospitals or medical wards in the city .
 
 “The most probable reason for people attempting suicides frequently could be bipolar disorder. People with bipolar disorder exhibit a high rate of suicidal tendency .There are 287 types of psychiatry-related disorders. Of them, 40 types of disorders are linked with suicidal tendencies. Bipolar disorder has the highest suicidal tendency among them. It is followed by major depression and schizophrenia. Repeated suicide attempts are characteristic of the disease,“ said Dr K Srinivas, consultant psychiatrist in MaxCure Hospital. About 10% people in the country suffer from one or other mental disorder. The prevalence is more or less similar in the city, he added.
 
 “There is no permanent cure. It requires lifelong treatment. In an acute stage, patients may need 15 to 20 days of rehabilitation. They need psychiatric care. The treat ment involves electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), commonly known as shock treatment.“ said Dr  , superintendent of the Institute of   (IMH) at Erragadda here.
 
 Hyderabad ironically does not have a rehabilitation centre for bipolar cases. The IMH has only 500 beds. Most of the private hospitals do not have psychiatry wards and a very few have outpatient consultation facility. This disorder generally strikes in the age group of 15 to 20 years and rarely after 40. Experts said the common symptoms include excessive talking, highly irritable with moods, negative thoughts, and a false sense of possessing special abiliti es. When the disease is not in acute stage, the patients are calm and maintain a low profile, said Dr  , psychiatrist with Tranquil Minds.
 
 The prevalence of bipolar disorder is high in the city and it accounts for 30 per cent of the people suffering from mental illnesses. Nearly 12 per cent of bipolar patients end their lives after repeated attempts.
 
 As the disease needs long term care, often patients become financial and emotional burden for the middleand low-income families. Psychiatry disorders are not covered under any insurance policies, said Dr Uma Shankar of IMH.
 
