HOWRAH: Cops investigating the   of a 32-year-old Bally homemaker are pinning their hopes on a “lead” provided by her six-year-old daughter — also the only witness to the case. 

 On Monday around 4.45pm, a person whom the child,  , referred to as Pintu Uncle, reportedly came to visit her mother   at their home. The child told the police this man was not exactly a stranger and would come to see her mother once in a while. 
 
 Prima facie, police believes this person could be the person who killed Rakhi. Bystanders had seen a brown car screech to a halt outside Ashray Apartment off G T Road at Bally. A youth, clad in a blue T-shirt jumped out of the car and entered the apartment, said neighbour  . The man was seen wearing a vest and running out of the house 20 minutes later.
 
 Police has recovered the bloodstained blue T-shirt near the spot where Rakhi lay before she was taken to hospital. 
 
 Rakhi’s husband, Manoj, a tea-stall owner however said he had never heard of anyone called Pintu from his wife. 
 
 The child is still in a state of shock. She almost saw her mother getting killed in the hands of an outsider last evening. In a haze she keeps repeating her mother has gone to hospital and may not come back home. Sometimes it is a question, but at other times it is a mumbling acceptance. The child was locked up by her mother’s assassin moments before he stabbed her to death.
 
 Police said when the man reached the third-floor flat, Rakhi was there with her two daughters. The elder one, 9-year-old Anjali was preparing to leave for her tuition. Asking the visitor to sit for a while and laying out some snacks in front of him, Rakhi took Anjali to the ground-floor apartment where her daughter is taught privately. Within moments, Rakhi was back and went to the kitchen to make tea for the visitor. Khushi followed her. Rakhi was chatting with the man when the child suddenly noticed the two had started fighting verbally. The heated conversation soon snowballed into a physical fight when the man went up and slapped Rakhi.
 
 When the child protested and threatened to open the door and call neighbours, the man picked up a big kitchen knife, brandished it in front of Rakhi, dragged the child into the bathroom and locked her up. The child told the police that she could hear the man attacking her mother and her groaning in pain. 
 
 Councillor of ward 53, Balaram   said he had several meetings with apartment owners, insisting security guards be employed at least at the entrance and apartments be covered by CCTV cameras.
 
 
