Indore: The preparatory works for Common Entrance Test, conducted by Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) every year in June, is yet to begin. The varsity is already running more than a month late from its schedule that has made the students worried as now the dates may clash with other entrance exams. 

 The university didn’t even finalize the agency that will conduct the online examination. This year DAVV has decided to outsource the exam that was previously conducted offline on OMR sheets. 
 
 Students are also suffering due to the delay in admission notice as they are planning to appear for other entrance exams also that are likely to clash with CET exam date. 
 
 “I had started preparing for CET, DAVV in the first week of April so that I could get two- month time to prepare. I thought dates would be declare in April but it’s May and no information has been released by the university,” said Mayank Dwivedi, a graduate from the city who is aiming at getting admission in IIPS for his post-graduation. 
 
 Sources said the varsity is likely to take another week’s time to release the examination details. 
 
 The delay has not only left the students jittery, even the teaching departments participating in CET are concerned about it. Many senior officials from the varsity have also opposed its decision to outsource CET this year. CET core committee was working on the lines of conducting the exam on June 18 however the dates are also expected to change now as the Common Proficiency Test for Chartered Accountancy will be held on the same date. 
 
 “I have been preparing for CPT from two years now and I can’t afford to miss the exam. But I’ve also decided to also appear for CET as a second option but the dates are not yet announced and I am quite confused about what to do now,” said Prajwal Rane, a student who appeared for the Class 12 board exams this year. 
 
 The exercise of conducting CET online is aimed at more transparency.
 
 This is not the first time that the varsity has planned to conduct CET online, earlier in 2012 discussions over conducting it online were held but university couldn’t do it and the preparatory work in that year also ran late. 
 
 
