THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a statement submitted before the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB), DGP N Shanker Reddy said that   chief   was prejudiced against him ever since he had filed a report against him. Reddy had given a report to   that said that Thomas had violated service rules while taking up a private job with   of Management in Kollam. VACB submitted its full report before the vigilance court in the capital on Friday. 

 In his statement, he said that he had to file a report against Thomas, while he was working as VACB director, based on the directive of the Lokayukta. In the report, he had cited that Thomas had obtained Rs 8.47 lakh in 2009 from TKM Institute by working as an employee for five months from April 2009, without government sanction. "..The said action on the part of Jacob Thomas amounts to violation of   Conduct Rules. In view of this Jacob Thomas is highly prejudiced," Reddy said.
 
 He added that Sukesan had fabricated the witness, and this was even endorsed by the crime branch that had probed Sukesan's role in bar bribery case. "The SP, crime branch CID stated that Sukesan had recommended prosecution of an accused in the bar bribery case merely on presumptions and not facts. Based on the report of the CB CID, it can be presumed that the above action of Sukesan in the investigation of the case throws a serious suspicion on his integrity and impartiality," he said.
 
 He said that though this report was obtained by Thomas, he did not take any action against Sukesan for conducting the probe in a perfunctory manner. Reddy further added that the then deputy superintendent who assisted Sukesan, T Ajith Kumar, is an accused in the murder case of Udayakumar, a victim of lock-up torture at Fort station in the capital.   had filed chargesheet against him.
 
 Reddy also criticised the authenticity of the polygraph test conducted on Ambili, the driver of Biju Ramesh. He said that the questionnaire for polygraph test was prepared in such way that Ambili needed to say only yes to all the question he was asked. The result (of Ambili) shows that if someone is determined to give false answers to the questions put to him during the course of polygraph test, then the same cannot be recognized as not truthful.
 
 He refuted the charges of Sukesan that it was Reddy's report that was handed over to him that he was forced to file in the court. He said that when there was no difference between him and Sukesan on the final action to be taken on the report, there was no question of another report being prepared by him against that of Sukesan.
 
 The vigilance court will pass orders on VACB'S report in the preliminary inquiry against Reddy on February 7. The report has said that there is no evidence against Reddy sabotaging the case.
 
