LUCKNOW: It was a long evening for senior officials of  . Heads of five wings of the department -- basic, secondary, technical, vocational and   -- started their presentation one after the other about their achievements and the roadmap at 6 pm on Monday. By the time all the five finished, it was 12.40 am even as chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi and his cabinet colleagues listen to their presentation at the   with rapt attention. 

 The first one to leave was secondary education principal secretary Jeetendra Kumar. Though he didn't interact with reporters waiting anxiously for the meeting to get over, sources said that he was pulled up for mass copying being reported from across the state. The CM said there was a dire need to improve the state's education system. He also directed the officials to identify centres involved in copying and blacklist them. He also directed to lodge FIR against such centres and
 
 Yogi also ordered that attendance of teacher and students should be monitored through biometric system and there should be a crackdown on teachers involved in private coaching. He instructed that FIR should lodged against such teachers and schools should finish their courses in maximum 200 days.
 
 In another important decision, the CM also directed for new guidelines to streamline fees structure in private schools and directed officials to put a curb on extortionist attitude of the private schools. He also directed to begin new trends in ITIs and put an end to old system of education. 
 
 Jeetendra was followed by principal secretary of technical education Mukesh Meshram and of basic education, Ajay Singh. The CM directed the officials that in the coming 100 days changes for betterment in the primary schools should also be visible. He also emphasised on constituting Basic Teachers Services Selection Board for recruitment of primary teachers and directed for strict action against those playing with the future of students. 
 
 Thereafter, it was the turn of principal secretary of vocational education department, Bhuvnesh Kumar. Like others, he was also asked to take a pledge to create at least 10 lakh jobs in the next five years.
 
 Such presentations by other departments would continue till April 20.
 
 
