DUBAI:   has nothing to prove ­ no points to gain or prizes to win ­ just his craft to show, his wand to wave, magic to weave. On Monday night, when the winter chill spiced the air, the 35-year-old, in his first tournament since that stirring run in Melbourne where he clinched his 18th major title, felt the love of the crowd if not the challenge of his opponent -27-year-old Frenchman Benoit Paire-to score a an artful win in the first round of the Dubai Duty Free   Championships. Federer, looking to win his eighth title here, a first for him, having captured seven crowns in three other Tour stops besides Wimbledon, came through 6-1, 6-3 in 54 minutes.

 Stepping into the court, leaning into his shot and rolling his wrist, the third seed, all easy elegance, broke Paire's serve at love in the fourth game. Clarity of thought and authoritative strokeplay sparking a noisy full house that cheered the seven-time champion's every move. The Frenchman, light and lean had four chances to return the favour in the following game, but Federer held firm to take a 4-1lead.
 
 Paire, a big server, briefly appeared to have benefitted from a medical attention, jumping ahead 30-0, before Federer's strokes broke through to take a 5-1lead. In the seventh game, the Swiss fell behind 030, passed on the first point, he netted a low volley on the next.The 35-year-old, father of four then won the next four points to close out the set in which his 6 ft 5' opponent managed to win just nine points on his serve in 28-minutes of play .
 
 Paire's fluorescent hued shoes was the only colour he could throw up on a night, which was the 18-time Grand Slam champion all the way , breaking the Frenchman in the fifth game before firming up the lead in the sixth where the 27-year-old had his chances. Federer then broke in the ninth game on his third opportunity to close out the match.
 
 In other opening round of results, sixth-seeded Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut knocked out young hopeful Karen Khachanov of Russia 6-1, 7-6 (4); German Philipp Kohlschreiber knocked out the eighth-seed Luxembourg's Gilles Muller 6-4, 7-6 (7-1).
 
 
