MUMBAI: An epidemic of empty chairs is set to plague offices across the country this Friday, as the long Republic Day weekend seems to have taken   seekers out of the demonetisation-induced stupor that had kept them from heading out during the  .

 For, unlike the lull brought on by  , which saw return airfares to Goa stay at a timid Rs 10,000, including in the last week of 2016, R-Day has brought the extended-weekend skyhigh airfares back in action. 
 
 The cheapest return airfare from Mumbai to Goa, for example, was Rs 18,500 for flights at odd hours. For better timings, the cheapest return fare came to Rs 36,000. Had one booked a Goa return ticket in early January for this long weekend, it would have cost not more than Rs 8,000.
 
 There were weekend airfare trends too. For instance, as the weekend progresses, airfares predictably go down. Mumbai-Jaipur one-way fare for Wednesday was Rs 33,000 (only business-class seats available) while for travel on Thursday morning it was Rs 7,363 and Saturday, Rs 5,600. Another trend was that of extremely high fares for the flights back from the travel destination. Return flights from Goa and Port Blair were more than double the outbound fares. That’s because people depart for the extended weekend on different days, Wednesday, Thursday or even Friday, but most want to return on Sunday.
 
 Yatra.com’s Sharat Dhall said that for the January 26 long weekend, bookings have been significantly higher than a year before. “Considering today’s fast paced life, the Indian traveller is looking at taking shorter, but more frequent, breaks during the year,” said Dhall.
 
 Kapil Goswamy of Bigbreaks.com, an online travel portal, also said they have estimated a 50% rise in bookings for the extended weekend compared with the previous holiday season. “Now that the cash situation is easing, we are seeing a surge in travel plans and booking queries. Those who couldn’t make it for the Christmas break are also using this opportunity, and this pent-up travel demand has resulted in a sales increase of about 50% already,” said Goswamy.
 
 Karan Anand of Cox & Kings said there was a 25 % rise in inquiries for this weekend. “Around 60% of our travellers have planned a domestic holiday while the rest have gone for short-haul international destinations,’’ he said. 
 
