BHUBANESWAR: The state Crime Branch has identified at least 150 persons, who are suspected to have fuelled communal riot in Bhadrak by misusing the   platform. The probe agency strongly suspects some organisations based out of Odisha incited the locals to trigger the unrest.

 “We identified around 150 persons, who posted and circulated objectionable communal comments via Facebook and Twitter. Some of the suspects are prominent and known faces of Bhadrak. We are verifying their complicity,” a Crime Branch officer told TOI on condition of anonymity. “We also suspect the involvement of some organisations, based out of Odisha, in inciting the violence. Those forces are keeping a track on Bhadrak, which is a communally sensitive hub,” the officer said. 
 
 A seven-member team of cyber cell of the Crime Branch started questioning the suspects after reaching Bhadrak on Monday. “We are trying to know the sources from where the   originated. We will also find out their motive in spreading such hate messages on religions on the social media. We assumed many people purposely posted provocative messages while some others circulated the messages without assessing its ramification,” special DG (Crime) B K Sharma said. Sharma said blocking of the social networking sites in Bhadrak helped in preventing spread of the message. This is the first time in the state when the government restricted internet access in a particular geographic area. 
 
 Though Internet services have been suspended in Bhadrak till Tuesday evening, police are jittery as provocative remarks relating to religion are being circulated by people in the social media in other parts of the state. “We appeal to people to refrain from circulating offensive messages. Stringent action will be taken against such offenders,” Sharma said. 
 
 Alarmed by the Bhadrak violence, the Odisha police asked SPs in all districts mostly Cuttack, Balasore, Kendrapada, Puri and Rourkela where communal violence erupted recently. “We have alerted all SPs to gather intelligence about mischief mongers, who may try to spill the Bhadrak violence to outside,” a senior police officer said. Communal tension gripped some parts of the state, including Bhadrak during immersion processions of Ganesh idol in September last year. 
 
 
