PUNE: After a frenzied morning at the Pune railway station, a visibly tired Colonel   finds comfort in the cane chair at home in Khadki. He had gone to the station to gauge the chances of his tickets getting confirmed.

 The Tripathis were travelling to Hyderabad to watch their son Rahul play for the Rising Pune Supergiant against   in Sunday's   final. As the tickets were still on the waiting list, they were bracing themselves for a long, uncomfortable night on Konark Express.
 
 "My mother is 90 years old, and not comfortable on flights, hence the train journey," the colonel explained, "and the tickets were booked only a couple of days ago after Pune qualified for the final."
 
 But the 'waiting' status doesn't bother really the family which is used to much longer waits.
 
 "The longest wait was for Rahul, who had worked hard for many years. He is finally realizing his dream of playing on a big stage in front of big players," the proud father said about his son, who is in his debut   season.
 
  
 "After winning the best cricketer award by the BCCI, he was hopeful of making the Indian team. But that didn't happen. Hopefully now his talent will get noticed," the colonel said. Rahul had won the M A Chidambaram Trophy for best U-25 cricketer in 2014.
 
 In fact, Rahul's was a last-minute inclusion in the 351-player list for the IPL auction this year. "He was recommended to the Pune team CEO Raghu Iyer. The team was courteous enough to conduct trials only for Rahul at D Y Patil stadium in Mumbai, and later asked the auction committee to add his name to the list, just a couple of days earlier."
 
 Rahul went to Pune at his base price of Rs 10 lakh.
 
 A middle-order batsman and a fast bowling option for Maharashtra otherwise, Rahul is enjoying his role as opener for the Pune franchise. "I am not surprised that he is opening for Pune. He has always played with a straight bat and hits perfect cricketing strokes, which suits an opening role," Ajay said.
 
 But it is not just the rigorous net-sessions that has helped Rahul perfect the straight-bat shots. Rather it was his fear of losing the ball and breaking window glasses that made him play perfect shots.
 
 "We were posted in Gangtok when Rahul was only five. We had a house on the hill top where a shot on the sides would send the ball down the hill. Rahul must have lost more than 500 balls in Gangtok. Later, at his grandmother's home in Unnau in Uttar Pradesh, a cross-bat shot would have broken the glass windows. It's not that he didn't break any, but the fear of shattering more made him play only straight shots," the colonel recalled.
 
 Though the family is happy that Rahul is getting his dues, senior Tripathi, 57, still has some regrets.
 
 "Around 2000-01, Rahul was playing at the sports hostel in Lucknow, where players like   also used to play. But I got posted in Srinagar. Since the time was turbulent after the Kargil war, my family didn't want me to stay alone. So they sifted to Srinagar with me. Now looking back, I feel I shouldn't have asked them to move. Rahul lost three years of cricket in Srinagar," he remembered.
 
 "I got posted to Pune on September 20, 2003 and on the very day, I took Rahul to Deccan Gymkhana. The admissions for that year were already closed in July, but once they saw Rahul in the nets, they enrolled him happily," the father said.
 
 Since then, the Colonel has voluntarily asked for field postings. Field postings are transfers to sensitive or border areas. The postings allow the family of the armyman to stay at the army accommodation in the city of their choice. The Tripathis preffered to stay in Pune.
 
 The armyman attributes Rahul's success to his coaches at Deccan Gymkhana, Hemant Athalye and Kedar Joglekar. "But I feel Maharashtra Cricket Association secretary Riyaz Bagwan made him play fearless cricket. Rahul used to play big shots in the nets, but used to play under pressure in the matches. It was Riyaz sir, who asked him to play without fear," he said.
 
 Rahul's sister Rupali, 21, represents Maharashtra in basketball at the national level.
 
 His mother Saroj looks forward to the journey to Hyderabad. It will be one of the biggest days of her life when she watches her son play in the final on Sunday.
 
 "I was always known as the colonel's wife all my life. I am being addressed as Rahul's mother now. What else can a mother want?" she asked. 
 
 As the talk comes to an end, the colonel gets an SMS. The tickets are confirmed.
 
