PATNA: Furious over frequent petrol pump loots in past few months, the Patna Petroleum Dealers’ Association on Thursday said it would hand over keys of all pumps in the state capital to CM   and ask him to run them if the police failed to stop the crime.

 The association also said it would go on a symbolic blackout on March 23 and 28 to protest rampant loot incidents taking place at pumps in Patna. There are around 200 petrol pumps in the state capital.
 
 The symbolic blackout would be for 15 minutes and 30 minutes, respectively, to protest six petrol pump loots between August 2016 and March 2017.
 
 President of the association Brijendra Kumar Sinha said criminals have no fear of police. “Petrol pump business has bulk cash transaction. We cannot do business with fear of loot in mind,” Sinha said, adding incidents of petrol pump loots have suddenly increased after November 2016.
 
 Vice-president of the association Ajay Kumar said they are not getting any support from the government. He said if loots at petrol pumps continue, they would hand over the keys of all pumps of Patna to CM for running them.
 
 “We are only getting assurance from the administration. If no concrete action is taken by police to stop petrol pump loots, the association would go on a phase wise protest after the token blackout,” Kumar said, adding hardly one or two loot incidents used to take place in a year earlier.
 
 Shailendra Kumar, a senior member of Federation of All India Petroleum Traders’ Coordination Committee, said, “Earlier, only money snatching, forcible filling of petrol or scuffle used to take place at pumps. However, now armed criminals are attacking and looting the pumps,” he said.
 
 Around Rs 3.82 lakh was looted from Shubkamna petrol pump on March 8 by armed criminals. Earlier, over Rs 1.8 lakh was looted from the same pump on January 4. A sum of Rs 6 lakh was looted from Shekhar filling station on January 9 in Dhanarua. The criminals had looted Rs 2.5 lakh from KG Fuels at Khagaul on December 22 last year and Rs 2 lakh was looted from Bakhtiyarpur Super Services on November 23 last year.
 
 
