KANPUR: Within 48 hours of getting SP ticket to contest Assembly elections, former chief of the party’s state unit Shivpal Yadav along with his son   Yadav on Saturday touched down in the constituency where he asked the party workers to begin campaigning and ensure that he comes out victorious in the ‘dharma yuddha’ (crusade).

 “It’s a dharma yuddha (crusade) which I will certainly win. I have been attacked many a times. Though there were several alternatives, I never opted for them and instead relied on Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) whose strong support is enough for me to defeat rivals,” Shivpal told party workers in Jaswantnagar but did not elaborate what he meant by ‘dharma yuddha’.
 
 Younger brother of SP patriarch Mulayam, Shivpal had represented Jaswantnagar for four consecutive terms since 1996.
 
 Aditya, 28, who is also area in-charge of   constituency and has been chairman of the UP   since February 2013, asked the party workers to “pull up socks and ensure a big victory” for his father.
 
 Though Aditya was hardly seen in public with his father Shivpal earlier, he has been constantly at his father’s side since the family feud broke out recently.
 
 Making an emotional appeal, Aditya said his father had made every effort to take care of the people of Jaswantnagar. Aditya said, “We all have seen the development work done by my father in and around Jaswantnagar. Workers should take up door-to-door campaigns, apprise voters about the developmental projects done in the last 20 years and ensure his (Shivpal) victory by a record margin so that he could get a fifth consecutive term.”
 
 Aditya also gave tips for campaigning to party workers who had assembled from different areas of the local unit and visited several villages of Takha and Basrehar blocks. “Here, people don’t go to Aditya, but he comes to the people. He meets people from his father’s constituency,” said Beenu Yadav, a native of Takha block.
 
 Ram Naresh Yadav, former MLC, former district president Ashok Yadav and former block head Veer Pal Singh and others were present at the meeting.
 
 Amid SP family feud, party leaders from Etawah, the native district of the SP’s first family, had earlier petitioned party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav to field chief minister Akhilesh Yadav from Jaswantnagar.
 
 Since 1967, except once in 1980, Mulayam and later his brother Shivpal, had represented Jaswantnagar. In 1980 assembly elections, Mulayam had lost to Balram Singh Yadav of Congress from Jaswantnagar.
 
 
