KOLKATA: If mayor   has his way, Kolkata will get a combo version of Singapore's   and Bangkok's Safari World, the site having already been identified and a report on the proposed project submitted.

 While the proposal is sure to set citizens abuzz with excitement, ecologists and environmentalists are seething over the choice of location within the   (EKW), a designated Ramsar site that enjoys international recognition. Chatterjee, who is also the environment minister, told TOI on Tuesday he wished to create an eco park that would go way beyond Hidco's facility in New Town. To be developed by the KMC, it will try to amalgamate features of Jurong Bird Park and Safari World, which impressed Chatterjee on his visit to Singapore and Thailand.
 
 It was way back in May 2006, immediately after he became the environment minister, that Chatterjee hit upon the idea of using the 300-acre “prime“ plot.Located between Captain Bheri and Dhapa Road to the east of EM Bypass, he considered it perfect for a zoo-cum-amuzement park. Soon, the authorities roped in a consultant, which submitted a report on the animals that can be housed there.Once the civic body gets the statutory clearances--officials believe the nod will be a mere formality given that Chatterjee holds all the key briefs of mayor and environment minister--a global tender will be floated for a public-private partnership to implement the project.
 
 A KMC official confirmed top civic officials had already surveyed the area and work would begin as soon as the project received the chief minister's nod. KMC also needs the approval of EKW Management Authority (EKWMA). “Not only will it have captive animals, it will also have a habitat that will draw migratory birds,“ said Chatterjee, adding care would be taken to maintain the wetland's ecological balance.
 
 But alarmed over the attempt to encroach upon the Ramsar site, environmentalists said the move could sound the death knell for the wetlands. Even some environment officials are uneasy about its implications.
 
 A K Ghosh, former member of Ramsar Scientific Tech nical Advisory Committee who led the Indian delegation to the Ramsar Convention in Japan in 1993, said an amusement park was unheard of at a Ramsar site. “The mayor should be proud to have a Ramsar site in such close proximity to the city. He should promote an educational interpretation centre to spread awareness about the wetland's ecological resource and value,“ said Ghosh. EKWMA's Bonani Kakkar, who had paved the way for the wetland's preservation, said an eco park in the true sense was welcome but a zoo was not a bright idea.“If the place can be designated for marshy birds, it will be great. In the '60s, bird species found at EKW was similar to that at Bharatpur. Biswamoy Biswas, scientist emeritus at   had proposed the area be declared as a sanctuary,“ she said.
 
 Ecologist Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, who was instrumental in the wetlands being recognised a Ramsar site, said the management could not give the proposal a go-ahead as it would mean changing the land use. “Any change in land use at a Ramsar site is a strict no-no. During the Raj, the land had been given to KMC for dumping solid waste,“ he said.
 
