

 KOLKATA: While a handful of die-hard cricket fans queued up for the India-Australia   on a rain-soaked Wednesday afternoon, the ticket counters for the match at   didn’t quite see a mad rush a day ahead. The queues remained relatively short and the customary crowd at the club house gates was missing. It was only when the team buses entered the stadium that a small crowd gathered for a glimpse.
 
 Rain, the ensuing pujas and school exams ruined interest in the match, felt Subhasis Ray, a private firm executive who hasn’t missed an Eden encounter since 1985. “My son is taking his tests this week and so I didn’t feel like going to the stadium this time. Usually, I take him along but this time it won’t be possible. Also, the weather is not quite conducive for the match and I fear a wash-out,” said Ray.
 
 Twenty-one-year-old Anirban Ray, another Eden regular, felt this series has failed to evoke interest. “India has been playing ODIs so frequently that even a match with Australia failes to excite me now,” he said.
 
 But the die-hards would still be there on Thursday. Take 78-year-old TK Thakkar, for instance. The septuagenarian doesn’t intend missing a single ball during the match. “The first time I came here, was back in 1958 when India was playing West Indies. The way Nari Contractor and Pankaj Roy tried to counter the bowling of Sir Garfield Sobers was nothing but a treat to watch! Since then, I have been attending every match that is played here at Eden Gardens and I can convincingly say that this Indian team is the best in world cricket at the moment”, the enthusiasm in 78-year old K. Thakkar’s voice was hard to miss as he finally got hold of the tickets after an hour long wait.
 
 Mukesh Thakur has traveled all the way from New Delhi to witness the match. “Fans are crazier here than in the Feroz Shah Kotla. I have heard a lot about the atmosphere at Eden Gardens and I am so excited to finally have this opportunity. I plan to stay on in Kolkata to attend the Durga Puja as well and I know I will return with an experience of a lifetime.”
 
 Others like Sourav Chowdhury were expecting an encore of Rohit Sharma’s 264 on his favourite hunting ground. His brother Soumik Chowdhury was blindly favoring Glenn Maxwell and Nathan Coulter-Nile to counter attack the challenges thrown up by the Men in Blue, both are gearing up for an intense match ahead.
 
 “An Indian win will be the best Durga Puja gift from Kohli’s boys to Kolkata. We will be there in huge numbers to scream and support them to success,” said Sourav.
 
 Mofizzul Khan, another Eden regular visited the stadium on Wednesday for a glimpse of the players. “Of course, we are here to witness Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni from the Indian team. Jasprit Bumrah is a world class bowler and it will be my first time witnessing his accurate yorkers. I am hoping it will be an enthralling affair," said Khan.
 
