MOHALI: Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore has asked the state government to come up with innovative ideas to promote of heritage tourism in the state. Addressing an interface of the state government with the Indian Heritage Hotel Association (IHHA) on Tuesday at the Indian School of Business (ISB) here, he urged the body too to extend its expertise in conservation of heritage and development of tourism in Punjab.

 Punjab would be on the forefront in developing heritage tourism as there was a great scope for converting a lot of these heritage properties, lying in a shambles, into interesting destinations, even for weddings, said Badnore.
 
 “Punjab has been the frontline state of the country in every other sphere, and now the time has come to showcase the amazing prowess of the state in tourism sector also for which the state government would not leave any stone unturned,” he added.
 
 Punjab tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu also said the state had immense potential to emerge as the leading player on global stage in the sector. To ensure this, the state government was in the process of coming out with a comprehensive policy as taking Punjab to the heights of tourism sector was the dream envisaged by the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, he added.
 
 Making a case in favour of Punjab to be number one on both tourism and cultural fronts, Sidhu said time was ripe for the arrival of ‘Brand Punjab’ on the world stage with a bang. Meticulous planning and strategizing was the need of the hour for this, he added.
 
 Addressing the gathering, IHHA chief Gaj Singh, former prince of Jodhpur, said Sidhu was making herculean efforts towards transforming Punjab into a tourism hub. Lauding Sidhu’s efforts, he said bold decisions were a sure recipe for success. He also stressed on the applicability of unique and novel ideas to carry the mission forward besides working with single-minded devotion.
 
 In his presentation about the Northern Ireland, Lord Daljit Rana said the place attracted a number of tourists, almost twice its population. He termed tourism as the backbone of its economy.
 
 IHHA general secretary Randhir Vikram Singh gave a detailed insight into the heritage hotels situated across the country. He said that till date there was not a single heritage hotel in Punjab whereas these are successfully running in various other states.
 
 Sidhu spells out Maharaja, Mughal, Sufi, spiritual circuits
 
 Articulating his vision to transform Punjab into a tourism superpower, Sidhu revealed that the four circuits—Maharaja, Mughal, Sufi and spiritual—would act as game changers for the state. He also disclosed that the religious circuit would connect three Takhts (temporal seats of Sikhs) in Punjab — Akal Takht in Amritsar, Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib and Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo — with   and Chamkaur Sahib.
 
 The   would include connecting Quila Mubarak, Sheesh Mahal at Patiala, Bathinda fort, Darbar Hall at   and Maharaja Jagatjit Palace and   at Kapurthala.
 
 Under Mughal circuit, serais such as Shambhu, Doraha, Nakodar, Nurmahal, coronation place of Mughal emperor Jalal-ud-Din Muhammad Akbar in Kalanaur (Gurdaspur) would be connected. The Sufi circuit would include Rauza Sharif (Sirhind), places related to Sufi saint   in Faridkot besides those related with Baba Bulle Shah. He also said deliberations were on to allow use of various forts in Punjab as wedding destinations while making tent arrangements for tourists at places like Aam Khas Bagh, Sirhind.
 
 
