INDORE: The term ‘love knows no bounds’ might seem shallow to some but it was proven to be even stronger at a mass marriage that was held at Dussehra ground on Wednesday. Even though over 200 couples were getting married that day, it was Pankaj and Garima’s tying the knot that stole everyone’s attention. Both from different castes, they professed their love for each other amid agitating family members and tight security.

 After a long love story, Pankaj Gehlot, a bank recovery agent, and Garima Gehlot, a beautician, decided to tie the knot. They approached members of their families for permission and while the girl’s family agreed, those from the groom’s side were reluctant.
 
 Nonetheless, the couple decided to get married and planned on doing it at a mass marriage organised by  .
 
 “We had spoken to our families on the previous day and since my husband’s family did not agree to our relationship, we did not invite them to the marriage,” Garima told TOI.
 
 The ceremony started peacefully with the girl’s family present. However, a few minutes later, some members of the groom’s family reached the venue and tried to put a stop to the wedding.
 
 They got into a brawl and threatened them to stop the marriage. However, police reacted quickly and told the family members to stop creating a ruckus. Cops surrounded the mandap and ensured that tight security was in place.
 
 The couple ten tied the knot as media persons’ cameras flashed all around them. 
 
 “We are grateful to the police and administration that ensured we tied the knot in peace,” said Pankaj.
 
 The couple said they had not lodged complaints against anyone. “If we face trouble in future, we will think of lodging complaint,” Pankaj said.
 
 Continuing with its innovative idea of gifting dustbins to newly weds, IMC on Wednesday gifted dustbins to 214 couples who tied got married at a function organised under Mukhyamatri Kanyadan Yojna. Every couple was asked to take the eighth vow, promising to keep their houses clean and were also gifted two dustbins each by mayor Malini Gaud.
 
 The dustbins were red and green in colour, one for non-biodegradable and the other for biodegradable waste respectively. This gift was given with a cheque of Rs 17,000 and gifts worth Rs 5,000. The couples took a vow to never throw waste in the open and maintain cleanliness in their houses and neighbourhood.
 
 
