KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister   on Friday singled out   and   as  , increasing discomfiture in state   ranks over her growing proximity to party chief   over the coming presidential polls. 

 Addressing the TMC leadership at a closed-door party core committee meeting, she reportedly said: “Focus on countering BJP and CPM in the state and don’t worry about Congress as it hardly has any organization.” 
 
 While she never spelt it out, the Congress-Trinamool bonhomie can have an impact in Bengal on the June 8 Rajya Sabha elections.
 
 A senior party leader quoted the CM as saying: “Oder byaparta amar upor chhere din (Leave their matter to me). Whatever needs to be said, I will say. We are working towards a larger opposition bloc with Congress in New Delhi. In the state, Congress is anyway decimated. We do not have to speak out against them.” 
 
 While choosing not to speak about her Rajya Sabha candidates, Banerjee’s statement immediately sparked speculation about the complex mathematics that go into electing a Rajya Sabha member from Bengal. 
 
 For one Rajya Sabha seat, a winning candidate requires roughly 41 MLAs and one MP to back them. Trinamool, therefore, is in the clear to send five members directly. Of the 44 Congress MLAs, 39 remain, leaving five fence-sitters who may not have formally joined Trinamool but have divorced Congress. Left Front has 31 MLAs. 
 
 Later in the assembly, the CM walked up to opposition leader and Congress MLA Abdul Mannan to ask about his health and advised him to exercise. Ironically, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury chose to break the ice with estranged party leader Manas Bhunia in the assembly around the same time. “I have no grudge against you. It happens in politics. I have deep regard for you,” he told Bhunia. 
 
 A senior TMC leader, who was present at the earlier core committee meeting, said Banerjee told them not to be complacent. 
 
 “We were told the Centre is mooting the idea of holding Lok Sabha and assembly polls simultaneously. So we should be prepared for any situation. We should not be complacent and work towards increasing mass contact of the party and should always be in touch with them,” an MP said. 
 
 
