THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Not many actors in Malayalam cinema carried the knack for surprise and shock as adeptly as Dileep did. Most often the effect was glorious, until it veered off the track in a fateful turn. He could perhaps be the only actor ever known in Malayalam industry who would readily play behind leads, almost willing to shrink in their shadows and yet stealing the show like what he did in Thenkasipattanam and Twenty-twenty. When a shy Dileep posed with petite Manju Warrier on their wedding photo, he left many mouths gaping and guessing. Years later, he left the same impression when the photo frame was filled by the face of a new partner.

 Film buffs and critics decoded for months the formula of a rusty bus and a bankrupt owner scripting one of the biggest comic hits in Malayalam cinema with the film Ee Parakkum Thalika The stupendous initials of Meesamadhavan created ripples in the sector thirsting for blockbusters. His hair was trimmed and his thin frame was buffed up for the film ­ a makeover that surprised not just the audience but the entire industry .
 
 Behind all the pivotal moments in his career and life lay a mind that mastered the skill to fill voids and one that never shunned risks.
 
 Dileep, who entered the film field from the arena of mimicry in the early 1990s, registered a meteoric rise after 2000. The films he played the lead were rib-tickling comedies and his biggest admirers have always been women and children. He lavished upon himself titles that were democratic while shirking stardom: popular hero, hero with the face of a youth who could be any one's neighbour. “He played out the best irony off screen, projecting himself as a democratic actor but building an empire where he would be nothing but an actor; a radiantly smiling one," a source said.
 
 He took calculated risks and came to be known as the daredevil, producing and acting in films which no one dared to touch. CID Moosa was one ­ a cartoonish flick with human actors, but it broke collection records. He was the chivalrous saviour when the organisation AMMA was in dire need producing the multi-starrer Twenty-twenty. “He never needed an adviser to invest in business and broaden his finances. Such things came to him naturally and it seemed he never liked to lose because he was fiercely ambitious,” a director who had worked with him in the initial years recollects.
 
