Nagpur: The two-day encounter with the Naxalites in   district has claimed the life of one security personnel and also left 23 injured. Two encounters were reported, separated by two hours, both taking place in Bhamragarh taluka of south Gadchiroli on Wednesday.

 After three were injured in a firing incident first, another 20 were wounded and 1 dead as Naxalites triggered off a powerful blast with 50-60 kg explosives near Kier village around 2 kms from   where Dr Prakash Amte’s   is located. 
 
 While most of the injured jawans were shifted to the Gadchiroli district hospital, five were brought to Nagpur by a helicopter. Strangely, these jawans were shifted to a lesser-known private hospital near the outskirts of the city. 
 
 It’s learnt that the jawans could not be admitted to reputed hospitals due to pending medical bills to the tune of a few crores. DGP Satish Mathur has sent two senior officials to enquire about the facilities at the private hospital.
 
 Naxals struck in Maharashtra after more than 28 months with the last recorded incident being in 2014 when 9 died in a blast in Gadchiroli. Wednesday’s incident comes barely 10 days after the Sukma blast in south Bastar where 25 CRPF jawans were killed. 
 
 C-60 jawan Suresh Telami, who is in his mid-20s, lost his life after the mine-protected vehicle (MPV) in which he was travelling was blown up by the Naxalites with underground mines. Sources in Gadchiroli police said Telami was seated in the front seat of the MPV which got maximum impact.
 
 Father of a 13-month-old daughter, Telami was preparing for the   (MPSC) examination. Popular as a cricketer, Telami was a good batsman who his colleagues described as a sporting human being. 
 
 Telami was a resident of Krishnar village of Bhamragarh taluka. He was paid homage at the district police headquarters by senior officers and others. 
 
 Constables Girdhar Tulavi, Vijaysingh Thakur and CRPF jawan T Guniya were injured in the fire exchange at Koparshi-Pulnar forest ahead of Koti earlier in the day. They were flown to Raipur in Chhattisgarh for medical assistance. 
 
 The vehicle, in which Telami was travelling, was returning after extending assistance to the jawans at the spot of the encounter when they were targeted by the landmine blast. 20 other fellow-jawans, who were travelling in the same vehicle, were injured too. 
 
 The vehicle got damaged after somersaulting several times. “Immediately, the Naxalites started firing from both sides to inflict more casualties on the security forces but their plan was foiled,” said senior PI Sanjay Sangole of Bhamragarh police station. 
 
 Standard operating procedure (SOP) is unlikely to have been followed in Gadchiroli as 20 were travelling in the 12-seater MPV. Sources said that most were not wearing the safety belt as a result of which the jawans got injured when the vehicle tumbled over in the air a few times.
 
