THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A suicide threat by a student, an attempt of self-immolation by two Congress workers and the death of a 66-year old man who was caught in the melee at Peroorkada took the   strike to a new low on Tuesday. The dramatic events prompted the CPI to demand a solution to the issue at the earliest and the ABVP to call for a 48-hour education 'bandh' in the state from Wednesday.

 Governor P Sathasivam also expressed concern over the non-resolution of issues even on the 28th day and forwarded the second representation from opposition leader   to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan for further action. After meeting the governor, Chennithala said: “The governor is concerned since the issue is not being resolved. I have requested him to speak to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and direct him to resolve the issues,'' said Ramesh Chennithala.
 
 Peroorkada Junction witnessed tense moments in the afternoon with a student of the Law Academy climbing atop a tree and threatened to kill himself. He demanded the arrest of the academy's principal Lekshmi Nair, confiscation of her passport and a discussion on the issue in Wednesday's cabinet meeting. As he refused to pay heed to the advice of the police, deputy collector Divya S Iyer reached the spot and tried to persuade the ABVP activist to come down. But he insisted for assurances. Finally, by 6.15pm four fire force personnel climbed the tree and brought the youth down.
 
 Even as the police and the fire force personnel were trying to bring the ABVP worker down from the tree, two Congress activists who were standing in front of the shed, where K Muraleedharan MLA was observing fast, tried to pour petrol on their bodies and immolate themselves. The fire force team used water canon at once to defuse their threat.
 
 The tense scenes, however, claimed the life of a 66year old onlooker who collapsed amid the melee. The man was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared dead. The deceased was identified as Abdul Jabbar, a native of Manacaud, who was among the public at the venue of protest when the police action took place.
 
 KPCC president   who rushed to the hospital demanded a probe into the death of Jabbar. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said there was lapse on the part of the police. “The government can't evade of the responsibility in the incident.The CM should intervene to settle the issue before things become worse,“ Chennithala said. BJP general secretary K Surendran alleged that police atrocities had led to the death of an innocent man.
 
 Sensing that the crisis has reached the flashpoint, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said the government should take the initiative to settle the strike. CPI former state secretary Pannyan Raveendran is learnt to have met CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and requested his intervention to put an end to the strike on Wednesday.
 
