JAIPUR: The Congress, on coming to power in the state, would reverse the minimum education criteria in panchayat raj elections imposed by the BJP government,   (PCC) president   said on Tuesday.

 Pilot said the education rule should first be imposed for parliamentary and assembly elections and then implemented in panchayat raj bodies. “More than 25 legislators and two parliamentarians from the state are not educated even up to Class X. Education qualification should have been made mandatory in parliament and Vidhan Sabha because these are the two institutions where the country’s laws are made,” he said, while addressing a meeting of the Jaipur Zila   Panchayat Raj Sangathan here.
 
 Chief minister   introduced the minimum school education rule for panchayat elections in 2014, despite strong opposition from elected representatives and social activists in rural areas. Candidates contesting Zila Parishad or Panchayat Samiti seats were required to have cleared at least Class X and those contesting for Sarpanch were required to have cleared at least Class VIII.
 
 Pilot said the only motive of the state BJP government was to deprive Dalits and women from participating in village governance. “Imposing the rule without providing the opportunity to obtain the required education qualification was wrong,” the   leader said, emphasising that education facilities in state’s rural areas were not adequate. “Previous Congress governments opened schools in villages and hamlets but the present BJP government shut down more than 20,000 schools in the name of rationalization and unification,”   said.
 
 He said enforcing the education rule without checking ground reality deprived majority of the rural people from contesting elections in village bodies and, thus, a significant chunk of the populace was forced out of the decision making processes that directly affected them. “Whenever BJP has come to power, it has worked to weaken villages, panchayats and farmers. Congress has always ensured empowerment of the panchayat raj institutions,” Pilot said.
 
 The PCC president accused the BJP government of paralyzing the panchayat raj bodies through centralization of power. “BJP ministers and legislators are biased and preventing development works in areas of Congress’s panchayat representatives,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, while attending the inauguration of Students Union office at the Commerce College, Pilot said the state government’s priority should be to provide employment to the youth. Pilot said that as a minister in the previous UPA-II government, he made efforts to spread the IT sector to villages, so an initiative was taken to create web portals in local languages. “BJP later changed the name of programme to ‘Digital India’,” Pilot said.
 
 
