AURANGABAD: The slight dip is mercury levels has not eased the summer sweat as the humidity levels are up. 

 Aurangabad recorded maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees celsius and minimum of 24 degrees celsius on Monday. After hovering around 41 degrees celsius mark last week, the temperature has gradually gone below 40 degrees celsius.
 
 On the other hand, the city registered 42% humidity level till Monday morning, which was 7% more than the average, India Meteorological Department ( ) data showed. The average daily relative humidity for Aurangabad in April is around 36%.
 
 The met department has forecast that the maximum temperature could remain below 40 degrees celsius for next few days, but the humidity level could be above normal. 
 
 The rising humidity level had a visible effect on the city markets with a huge rush of buyers at stores selling air coolers. Shahaganj area of the city has a large market of locally-made air-coolers.
 
 “I prefer locally-made cooler as these are more robust in nature and offer better results. The weather is becoming hot and humid day by day and anticipating harsh summer ahead, I purchased a new cooler,” said Sindhu Gawande, a home-maker from Jyoti Nagar area.
 
 With the onset of monsoon, different varieties of mangoes have started arriving in the market. Besides Alphonso, Kesar, Totapuri and other varieties of mangoes have arrived in the market. “The rates are slightly high, but are expected to drop once bulk arrival takes place,” said Kaleem Akhtar, a mango merchant.
 
 Meanwhile, no unseasonal showers were reported from Marathwada till Monday evening.   and nearby districts are likely to receive heavy showers. 
 
 On April 1, the IMD had forecast showers coupled with strong winds and lightning in parts of Marathwada in the next 48 hours. The revenue department had issued instructions to the disaster management cell and people, especially farmers, following the rain alert.
 
 Barely a fortnight ago, on March 15, Latur, Beed, Osmanabad and Parbhani districts were hit by unseasonal showers and hailstorms, resulting in six deaths and damage to crops and fruits spread over 60,000 hectare area.
 
