NEW DELHI: Cath-labs and coronary interventions in India are increasing exponentially, adding substantially to healthcare expenses. 

  While cath-labs have more than doubled in the last five years, from 251 in 2010 to 630 in 2015, coronary interventions rose 51% within a year, between 2014 and 2015, a new study by a thinktank shows. 
 
  Increased interventions have resulted in a higher number of stents being used in procedures. The data shows 4,75,000 stents were used in 2015 for 3,75,000 coronary interventions. The figures stand out as just 1,46,719 stents were used in 1,17,420 cardiac interventions in 2010. 
 
 A paper published by Ob server Research Foundation (ORF), based on analysis of data from different sources, highlights the potential role of price control in keeping health care costs in check. Acknowledging stent price capping is a significant step by the government, it suggests India needs greater transparency in costing systems, outcome-based measurements and evidence-based policy-making. 
 
  Authored by  , former professor at   and president of the Indian Health Economics and Policy Association, and  , Evidence Synthesis Specialist at  , the study says any analysis of the implications of economic regulations, including price controls, will need a detailed appreciation of market forces. 
 
  Cardiovascular diseases are now the leading cause of mortality in India, with a quarter of all deaths in 2015 attributed to the disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2015 study, death rate due to heart diseases in the country stood at 272 per 100,000 population. Even with such figures, the paper suggests, cardiovascular diseases in India remain highly under-diagnosed though the number of coronary interventions like angioplasty are growing every year. 
 
 M oreover, the findings show, the use of expensive high-end drug eluting stents (DES) has also gone up contributing to the increasing healthcare costs. According to the paper, the share of DES in the total use of stents has reported a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 53.52% between 2002 to 2015, whereas total stent usage has grown by 22.86% in the same period. 
 
  It also highlighted the sources of financing of coronary procedures in India, which has a great deal of impact on household expenditures as majority of it is still borne out-of-pocket. The findings show over 43.9% of the financing of the coronary procedures in 2014 were conducted through out-of-pocket expenditure. Analysis of the NSSO 71st round done in the paper also show that one-fifth of hospitalisations due to   were paid for by borrowings or sale of personal assets. The same survey found that 53% of the population suffered from 'catastrophic' health expenditures. The study says severity of penalty is essential to price control and in determining compliance. Besides, the government or the regulator will also need to create an ecosystem to ensure effectiveness of such regulation. 
 
  Advocating for more effective monitoring of quality of medical products, the paper says, "Given the fact that currently the market for medical devices is poorly regulated, and there is no formal system to monitor quality of care, price control could have a negative impact in terms of entry of inferior-quality and outdated products in market". 
 
  The paper recommends setting up of a Medical Technology Assessment Board (MTAB) to initiate evidence-based health policy process. 
 
 
