We have all done weird things to try and live healthier, but deciding to shove a small silicone cup up my vagina has got to be the weirdest and creepiest thing I’ve tried so far.

 Also, it didn’t feel small when I tried to get it in, contrary to what I was told.
 
 To give a little context to this, I need to backtrack a little. While researching environment friendly ways to manage menstruation online, I discovered this pretty amazing invention gaining popularity globally-  . They’re small cup-shaped devices made of silicone or some rubbers, which are to be inserted into the vaginal canal to collect the menstrual fluid. Once full, you simply remove the cup, empty it and re-insert. It can be used for years!
 
 For many reasons, I decided to give it a try. It’s very hard to find in India but I discovered an Indian company that makes them, Shecup. It had good reviews online so I contacted them and they gave me the contact for a distributer in Delhi I could get it from, Priyanka Jain.
  
 I went to her office and had a wonderful chat with her about menstrual hygiene and education in India. She’s a part of awareness campaigns and has her own websites spreading information on personal health for young women, a topic not often covered by our schools. She helped me choose a menstrual cup amongst the many brands she had. I went for the Mooncup as it was adjustably longer than the Shecup, I felt I might have a high cervix, and it was a little firmer, which is good for athletes and physically fit people as they have strong pelvic floor muscles, which could squeeze or shift a softer cup.
 
 
 
 
 Finally Aunt Flow came to visit and this time I was excited for her arrival. I’d read up instructions and advice on how to insert it and I had the whole thing down, in theory...
 
 Full disclosure- I’d only ever used sanitary pads before this, I hadn’t so much as tried a tampon. So my experience shoving things up my vagina was pretty much zero.
 
 So practically it was far far more daunting, despite folding the cup, it still seemed rather big to me and getting that, along with my two fingers and thumb holding it folded, proved impossible, but then I was freaking myself out simultaneously and thus clenching the muscles on some tries.
 
 I tried for a good 20 minutes squatting in my shower, trying to relax my muscles but no success. I gave up and wore a pad and went on with my day, disappointed.
  
 I tried again in that cycle with limited success, I managed to get it in a little but the required amount of fingers to hold it shut was increasing its girth too much for me to get in too high. I tried adjusting my grip but that just compromised the fold. I’d lubed it up a little for easy insertion (that’s what I was advised) and unfortunately that caused the cup to slip open from the fold and whack me in the clit with all the force of a stretched rubber band. I was crippled for a minute- leaning against the cupboard with my legs squeezed tightly together.
  
  
  
 After that I gave up for a bit. My mother, who’d been dubious of this space-age silicone device from the start, advised I try tampons instead. They might not have the environmental and health benefits of menstrual cups but they were better than pads and, most importantly, they were smaller and thus less daunting. I thought I’d get used to them first and then maybe try the cup again; play the easy levels of the game first before attempting the advanced.
  
 There was still a learning curve to getting it in right but over the next few months I mastered it. The tampon was smaller; shorter in length and of about the same girth as my finger, which had already been up there so I wasn’t as scared. I used tampon, which was basically a cotton cylinder you slide up your vagina to the birth canal, where it doesn’t bother the sensitive nerve endings. I loved the mess-free convenience of them and several months later I decided to give the cup another try.
 
 
 
  
  
 I had far more success than the first time, I managed to get it in and to open and form the suction but I didn’t get it high enough into the birth canal, so it felt painful against all the sensitive nerve endings. Breaking the suction made a hilarious smacking noise and was a whole volley of painfully ticklish sensations as the air rushed up. It probably didn’t help that I was laughing at the noise as I drew it out; my vagina is going to stop taking me seriously soon.
 
 It didn’t hurt, but it wasn’t pleasant either. Again it was simply that I couldn’t get my fingers and the cup high enough to insert it at a comfortable place; maybe my fingers weren’t long enough or maybe my vagina was a black hole.
 
 As if sensing that sentiment it protested the next day. I’d gone for a lovely 7 kilometre run wearing a tampon and it was all good throughout and during my cool-down after. But as I was talking to some friends in the park later, I got this sensation on my tampon being lower than it should be; throughout that conversation it slid lower and lower to those sensitive areas and I had to excuse myself and walk to a loo, trying not to appear bow-legged, and pull it out the rest of the way, it had almost reached the opening. I realised why when I got home, I was all ready to try the cup again after my success yesterday, only to find my cervix had dropped. The menstrual cup was out of the question, I couldn’t even get a tampon in high enough. I didn’t try for too long though as my opening was still tender from the chafing the tampon caused.
 
 I thought my vagina was being rather shallow with that move but then cervixes are known to drop during periods. So this cycle has also gone by with no success on the cup front.
 
 Still, many periods await and I do intend to try again. I love the idea of menstrual cups and even though I seem to be gaining more funny stories than success, I’m sure I’ll manage soon. It could be the cup- I’ve read online it’s not the best for beginners. 
 
 Or, more likely, I’m doing something wrong. Still I’ll learn with time, I’ll ask people who use it to tell me how they managed in uncomfortable detail and try that.
 
  
 
 
 
