It looks like Coimbatore has got its own version of All India Bakchod. An online You tube channel that goes by the name Chummanachiki has been the talk of the town for the past few weeks, thanks to its hilarious videos on  . The Coimbatore-based group’s videos on cash crunch have not only gone viral, but have also upped the expectations from the group, which was only formed recently.

 The team Chummanachiki comprises actors Chella, Prasanna Balachandran, Arun Kumar, Sasi Kumar, Dhanam and Leni Sherlin; Shamir Mohamed (sound), Sujith S (cinematography), Prasanna Balachandran (script), Rajeshwar K and Sujith S (editing), Rajeshwar K (direction), Savitha Shanmugam (producer) and Siva Chidambaram ( creative head).
 
 Director Rajeshwar shares, “We have been mulling over creating a group that makes satires on issues that affects the common man in the country. When demonetization hit the public, we couldn’t find a better time to kick-start the venture. We wanted to connect to the people by addressing every issue that affected them, directly or indirectly. We made six videos in the demonetization series- Sellathu Sellathu, Don’t Panic, Kola Pasiyilae Irukkaen, Kaalai Pozhuthin Kalakkathiley,   and Vallarasu Jayanthi. Every time the government comes out with a rule, we look at how a person at the lowest rung would be affected. Our videos are from their point of view.”
 
 The growth has been organic, says the group’s creative head Sivachidambaram. “We first started as a social networking page. It was after our third video that we became viral. We immediately decided to up the ante. We didn’t expect the videos to become so popular, so soon. We worked hard on the quality, music, content and the output. At the same time, we were careful that we were a reflection of the society through our work.”
 The group releases a video every week, pertaining to the hot topic at that point of time. “Once we get the script in hand, we immediately shoot the portions. Since, every member from the group is from Coimbatore, we give the native touch to the videos. But, we have some strict ground rules, too. There will no jokes on discrimination of any kind- be it gender, caste or religion,” says Rajesh. The group is now working on a video for Pongal and Jallikattu. 
 
 
