MUMBAI: A   last week convicted and sentenced a 63-year-old former branch manager of   to three years’ imprisonment for defrauding the bank to benefit two account holders. The court also found the  , businessmen Santosh (43) and Satish Nair (53), guilty of cheating and sentenced them to two years’ jail. 

  was Goregaon (W) branch manager of Indian Bank between May 12, 2001, and February 12, 2004. While Santosh was the proprietor of Metaplast Industries, Satish owned Global Writing Instruments. Both held current accounts in the name of their respective firms.
 
 The investigating agency alleged that Murthy fraudulently allowed several benefits beyond her powers and in violation of banking norms. In June-July 2003, she authorized the opening of two open cash credit (OCC) accounts in the names of the two firms without proper appraisal and knowing that the Nairs had furnished incorrect information. These accounts allow banks to extend a certain per cent of the value of the stock as credit. 
 
 Murthy also allowed advances over and above her pecuniary powers and allowed the transfer of huge funds from the current accounts to the OCC accounts and vice versa, which is not permitted. When an OCC account is opened, the current account ceases to exist, but Murthy allowed these to continue. 
 
 CBI said that to cover the  , Murthy authorized overdrafts in the two OCC accounts beyond her delegated financial powers and over and above the sanctioned limit of Rs 2.5 lakh. Murthy was also accused of extending loan to the firms against deposits which belonged to a third party and making the required alterations in the bank’s computer records.
 
 During inspection, various queries were raised by the inspecting officers with respect to the accounts. After finding several irregularities, the deputy bank manager lodged a complaint with the CBI and an FIR was registered on March 29, 2005. Murthy was terminated on June 2, 2006. 
 
 The court said it was proved that Murthy had misused and abused her official position with an intent to defraud the bank and allow financial advances and loan against the rules. 
 
 The court refused to provide her benefit under the Probation of Offenders Act and not award a sentence for the conviction. It cited a Supreme Court judgment which held that the principles of the Act cannot be extended to convictions under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In this case, said the court, the sentencing was to be considered with the theory of deterrence and not reformation. “This is for the reason that the age of 63 years they cannot be shaping and reformation,” it held. 
 
 
