Visakhapatnam: What more can enhance the holiday and   mood at   this Sunday than flying kites and a show of juggling and artistic ring dance by artistes from Bombay Circus?

 The Sankranti special Happy Streets kept Vizagites hooked to   with the new addition of interesting events and games besides its regular fun and fitness activities.
 
 The cloudy morning commenced with a session of yoga to soothe and relax the mind. As the clouds gradually gave way to a warm winter sun, the yoga was followed by a lively zumba dance, where like every week, people of all age groups enthusiastically participated and this time, bhangra beats enlivened the show all the more. The final onstage event was a dance performance by tiny tots.
 
 However, the main attraction of this Sunday’s Happy Streets was   by artists from The Great Bombay Circus. Noor Mohammad enthralled the onlookers with his juggling feats using footballs, ping pong balls, water filled glasses, hats and discs. Ring dancer Poonam Yadav too mesmerised everyone with her ring dance and calisthenics using multiple rings, even using 24 rings at a time.
 
 Near the Viztory At Sea memorial, some Vizagites were found flying colourful kites ushering in the Sankranti spirit. Some were making kites as well. Sanjay Sajnani, manager at  , said, “I am a regular walker and Beach Road is the ideal place for morning walks. But today, it’s all about kites. I just love flying kites. It’s my hobby and Sankranti time is best for flying kites.”
 
 Even the chalk arts on road such as kites and sugarcane sticks and ‘Happy Pongal’ messages drawn by children all pointed to Sankranti motifs and greetings.
 
 Apart from the above, a good crowd was noticed before the archery zone, shuttle corner, basketball and so on. Children were also busy playing snakes and ladders, carom, skating and cycling. V Siva, a business development manager, was found playing basketball with a team of children, guiding them. “Usually, we all family members drop in every Sunday to play and participate in various fun and fitness activities such as yoga, zumba and cycling. Children especially love the archery and shuttle. Wouldn’t mind if more fun games for children are introduced in Happy Streets. We are also looking forward to the performances by circus artists.”
 
 Organised by The Times of India, Happy Streets is an initiative by Vizag Police and GVMC and is presented by AP Tourism in association with Vaibhav Jewellers, Vignan Group of Institutions and Oakridge International School.
 
