AGARTALA: A   on Monday remanded the   in the murder of 19-year-old  , her maternal uncle  , to six days   

 The accused will be again produced before the court on May 20. However, the state government has handed over the investigation of the case to CID following allegations from student bodies and opposition parties over a partisan role played by police. Noor Mohammad, a CPM cadre, now stands accused of poisoning Anwara to death, after a monthlong delay in making the post-mortem and forensic reports public.
 
 Trinamool Chhatra Parisad, BJP Mahila Morcha and Yuba Morcha have been protesting across the state demanding immediate arrest of the other family members of Noor, the doctor who issued Anwara's death certificate citing cardiac arrest, and personnel of Women Police Station who had refused the case initially.
 
 Tripura students in Bengaluru held a protest rally on Sunday evening demanding exemplary punishment to the culprits. There has been an unprecedented agitation in the state for a month demanding proper procedures be followed in the investigation.
 
 Meanwhile, Anwara's father, Mohammed Abdulla Amin, alleged that police are unnecessarily harassing him. He reported to SP (West) Abhijit Saptarshi yesterday that police had gone to his house in his absence and brought back his wife's signature on a blank sheet. Earlier, he had met chief minister Manik Sarkar, seeking security for himself, alleging that he had been getting threats and intimidations from the slain Anwara's maternal uncle, aunt and family.
 
 Anwara breathed her last on April 12 at Agartala Govt Medical College (AGMC) after complaining of severe stomach pain. Her friends alleged she had been subjected to physical torture by her maternal uncle and been given poison. Noor however, procured a medical certificate from AGMC which stated that Anwara died because of a cardiac arrest.
 
 Based on the medical report, Noor Muhammad and his family had buried the body but the administration had to exhume the buried body for post-mortem following massive agitation and allegations of foul play. Noor was arrested last week after the forensic report indicated the death occurred due to poisoning.
 
 
