BHOPAL: State capital’s first cadaveric   took place on Friday giving a new lease of life to three people. Liver and two kidneys harvested from a 60-year-old man who was declared brain dead was transplanted on three patients in the state capital.

 The man, who suffered hemorrhage after being hit by a two-wheeler while crossing a road was declared brain dead on early Friday.
 
 Deceased’s son got in touch with a friend who is associated with Indore Organ Donation Society and told him about his father’s desire to donate his organs. Immediately, the   Organ Donation Society was informed and an alert was sent out to hospitals.
 
 Three private hospitals Bansal, Chirayu and Siddhanta Red Cross hospital sent out SOS to patients on their waiting list. A tissue match for the probable recipient patients was initiated.
 
 The   (NOTTO) was also taken into confidence and necessary clearances were obtained.
 
 The body was taken to Bansal Hospital where the organs were harvested and the two kidneys were transported to Siddhanta Red Cross Hospital and Chirayu Hospital in two green corridors.
 
 “The liver was transplanted on a patient at Bansal Hospital by a team including surgeon Dr Atul Agarwal and gastro-surgeon Dr Omkar Patel. They were assisted by a team of experts from Yashodhara hospital, Ahmedabad, informed, Dr SK Trivedi, director Bansal hospital. The operation lasted for about 10 hours.
 
 “We are elated over the achievement. Our hospital has become the first in Central India to have conducted organ transplantation for liver and kidney,” said Dr Subodh Varshney, gastro-surgeon and director Siddhanta Red Cross Super specialty (SRC) hospital.
 
 “It is Bhopal’s first cadaveric donation. It is a learning curve for all of us. All the procedures have been followed as per consultation and directives of NOTTO,” said Dr Ajay Goenka, director, Chirayu hospital and research centre.
 
 “The family of the deceased informed us about the situation and their desire to fulfil the deceased’s wish for organ donation,” said Dr Rakesh Bhargava, of Bhopal Organ Donation Society (BODS).
 
 BODS members held an emergency meeting with district collector Nishant Warwade. The collector also met the family members at the private hospital. National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) was informed and the patient was declared brain dead around 2.30 am on Friday.
 
 “We reached out to other centres through NOTTO for organ retrieval and heart donation. However, no one matching B (+ve) blood type was in immediate requirement,” said Dr Bhargava.
 
