MUMBAI: Tatas were a name to reckon with in Indian football in the 1970s and 80s before they were disbanded. They had the likes of Bandya Kakade, Melwyn Oliver, Camilo D'Silva, Ganesh Rao, Surender Kumar in the 70s and before that they had SS Narayan and Franco Fortunato, who played for the country in the 50s and the 60s. That was a time when football was run on passion and marketability was a word not associated with sport.

 Times have changed and so has the policy towards football of the Tatas. On Sunday, they decided to jump into the fray again, during the ISL season 4 draft. They bought the   franchise and the club chose the occasion to unveil their logo along with  , the former Indian goalkeeper.
 
 Their first round pick in the draft coincidentally was Paul, a goalkeeper who was a   product.
 
 Koushik Chatterjee, group executive director,  , said: "We are happy and proud to participate in the ISL. This will showcase Jamshedpur as a sports centre. We have a very strong connect with the city and now the entire country will see what the JFC offers," he stressed. 
 
 Chatterjee said the group felt a strong urge to reconnect with football. "Sports is something we have been associated with … for many years. We were providing the ground support for the national team. The raw talent in our country is looking for guidance and an overall development programme. Forming a team is not a sudden decision but it has been in the works. ISL provides us that wonderful opportunity," he said.
 
 Coach   is obviously not aware of Tatas' history. His only concern was getting the right men for the job. "We were very conscious about getting a good, balanced squad. You can't control the draft a 100%. We will try and match the scale of the team as much as possible. Today will determine the positions and directions of our foreign search," said Coppell. 
 
 Coppell, who helped Kerala Blasters reach the final of the ISL in Season 3, said he needed the wholehearted support of the management. "I am one piece in a jigsaw. Without the support of the people around you, it goes nowhere," said the Englishman.
 
 The other debutants in Season $ of the ISL,  , are not new to Indian football. The four-year-old club won two I-League titles and one Federation Cup in their first three seasons before they decided to take the plunge into ISL. 
 
 Coach Albert Roca's immediate concern was to try and retain the core members of the club that helped them reach the AFC Cup final.
 
 "I cannot have all the players I want. Eugeneson Lyngdoh and Lalrempuia Fanai have been very important players for Bengaluru. We are disappointed to not keep the same team, but we are happy with what we have signed," said the Spaniard.
 
 Bengaluru's star player,  , who played for Bengaluru FC in the I-League, will be playing for his home team for the first time in the ISL. He did not find any difference. "As far as the football pitch is concerned, nothing changes. For everything outside the playing area, we have the manager and coach."
 
 Chief Technical Officer Mandar Tamhane explained the philosophy behind the player selection in the draft. "The coach wants the players to fit into his style. Obviously budget counts, but the priority is to get the required players," he said.
 
 Chhetri, who turned out for Mumbai City FC in season 2 and 3 of the ISL, promised to not celebrate if he scores a goal for Bengaluru against his former club. "I anyway do not celebrate scoring a goal," said Chhetri.
 
 
 
 Paying no attention to the controversy surrounding Abhinas Ruidas and his parent club East Bengal, Mumbai City FC signed the 22-year-old winger as their Round 6 pick at the ISL Indian Player Draft here on Sunday. I-League club East Bengal have claimed that the player is still contracted to them for another two years, but the player disputes it. Ruidas however, claims he has not signed any deal following the expiry of his three-year contract last season. He was cleared by the AIFF to be part of the draft, but the player feared the controversy would dampen his chances of being picked.
 
