MUMBAI:   won maximum seats in BMC with a high-decibel campaign promising sops to Mumbai’s residents, but the party has a smaller imprint on the civic budget compared to its ally, the BJP.

 Few of the big-ticket   in the Sena’s manifesto find mention here. Uddhav Thackeray’s assurance that property tax would be waived for flats up to 500 sq ft is missing. Instead there’s a proposal to levy a first-of-its-kind assessment tax on slums (The idea was mooted last year, but did not go through).
 
 Sena’s key promise was that homes with a carpet area up to 500 sq ft would be free of property tax and those up to 700 sq ft would get concessions.
 
 Other promises included free treatment in BMC hospitals to those ineligible under state-run health schemes through a plan named ‘Balasaheb Thackeray Health Cover’; construction of a   for tiffin carriers; regularization of structures in Koliwadas (fishermen colonies) affected by CRZ guidelines; setting up of three animal healthcare centres in different zones; and instituting a new medical college attached to Shatabdi (Govandi) hospital. None of these projects have seen light of day in the budget.
 
 On the other hand, BJP’s campaign theme of “transparency” resonated in municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta’s budget speech. He began by saying the document was based on five guiding principles, of which “transparency” was one.
 
 Also, pet projects championed by the Mumbai BJP unit found mention. Party’s Mumbai chief Ashish Shelar’s aim to beautify the Bandra fort precinct, area around Bandra Talao and the Fort area through illumination got space and provisions.
 
 Other initiatives like cashless payment of bills; facilitating ‘ease of doing business’ for renewal and registration of shop and establishments; registration of private schools; online permissions for tree cutting; online single window system for building permissions; Swachh Bharat Abhiyan; Open Defecation Free Mumbai; and the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ project were also listed out.
 
 However, Sena has sought to claim credit for a “realistic” budget, saying it steers clear of exaggerated numbers. Sena’s leader in the house Yashwant Jadhav said, “Many of our promises are in it. We will also give relief in property tax soon.”
 
 The budget, presented before standing committee, will now come up for discussions. More proposals and amendments may be included, depending on the panel’s views, before it is tabled before the BMC house for approval. To Sena’s credit, the promise of free travel for BMC schoolchildren in uniform has found mention in the budget. The Gargai and Pinjal water supply projects, which were in its manifesto, have also been listed; so have Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray’s plans to develop football grounds, eight swimming pools and a firing range.
 
 
