CHENNAI: The stigma associated with their condition makes most of schizophrenics stay away from  . However, this Tuesday the city may see a different scenario as at least 50 people recovering from the mental illness will sit for job interviews by hotels, retail outlets, manufacturing units to reverse the trend.

 “It’s to show that it’s not impossible to be successful with schizophrenia,” said Dr R Mangala, consultant psychiatrist at   Research Foundation (SCARF) which is organising a   for people living with the illness. 
 
 Although schizophrenics are not violent and do not pose a danger to others, misconceptions about the disease prevent them from getting a job or holding on to it, she said. 
 
 The treatment, usually, is a combination of medication and therapy tailored to each individual. At SCARF, many attend out-patient services along with behavioural and cognitive therapy. Most people recover though there are relapses. 
 
 “I have had a relapse more than five years. But doctors say support and treatment can help reduce the impact the condition has on daily life. Getting a job will help me keep up social network and security besides earning me money and self-esteem,” said Prathiba (name changed), 35, who has been living with the illness for a decade now.
 
 She has not been able to find any job ever since doctors diagnosed her illness. Early last year, when she told doctors at SCARF she would like to work, they asked a petrol pump manager in the neighbourhood for help. The job she was given wasn’t easy. However, when she stayed on for months, doctors decided that she should be placed somewhere.
 
 “There are several like her in our foundation. We thought we should organise a job fair,” said Dr Mangala.
 
 Prathiba will be among the people who will be interviewed for employment for the post of a salesperson, sales managers, cashiers, delivery boys/girls, tailors and designers, data entry operators. SCARF will give away ‘Aadhaar awards’ to three business establishments for providing employment to people with mental illness.
 
