LUCKNOW: A school, affiliated to   in Fatehpur, 200km from Lucknow, has come up with a   for its 1,500 students, from KG to VIII. 

 Students have been asked to read the Bible and their parents are required to sign a declaration (TOI has a copy) which states that they agree to abide fully with the  , where " " will be taught to their child.
 
 The declaration, sent to the parents by Truth Mission School, reads, "We understand that this is a Christian school and that the school and the management believes that biblical values are very necessary for the growth and holistic development of the children. By applying to this school, we understand biblical values will be taught to our child and we are in full agreement to it." The declaration, which is in Hindi and English, is part of the Data Form, 2017-18. Run by the Truth Mission Trust, it is a co-educational English medium school at Satyanagar in Nasirpur area of Fatehpur.
 
 The "forced agreement" sought by the school has angered parents, leading to protests outside the school. "The school says it is open to children of all communities irrespective of caste, creed and religion. But they ask children to compulsorily read the Bible and force parents to agree with the school's teaching of biblical values to our children," says Kishan Mehrotra, a parent. Another parent points out that the school's Facebook page says it imparts not only education to children, but also helps them build a personality by developing in them a strong character, love of truth, respect, humility, loyalty, sense of justice and necessity for honest and hard work through "biblical discipline". This will make them honourable citizens and a blessing to all, the page states.
 
 Founder principal of the school V Federick Paul, who is also the founder of The Truth Mission Trust, said on Monday, "God has no religion, so I, too, have no religion. By this declaration, we meant 'values' like not telling lies, as professed by the Bible and which children should be taught. By asking children to read the Bible, we only meant imbibing good values in them. We never thought it will evoke such a reaction."
 
 
