NEW DELHI: It's no secret that momentum is everything in T20 cricket. If a team doesn't have it, it struggles and the   are going through that phase now. Having lost as many as six matches from eight encounters,  's boys have been left with playing the catch-up game now.

 Whatever little momentum   had created by scoring a century against the Rising Pune Supergiants in the first week of   has gone out of the window after a string of defeats. The Daredevils management, having made several changes in the playing XI, more so in the batting order, has probably paid the price for making too many experiments.
 
 Right now, Delhi players have hit rock bottom. A team which boasts of probably the best bowling attack has looked insipid because its batsmen have failed to compliment the bowlers.
 
 So, on Tuesday at the Kotla, they will have to really play out their skins here to match the Sunrisers Hyderbad who are on a roll, gradually taking giant steps toward the play-off qualification. The big difference between Delhi and Hyderabad is the top-order batting. The Sunrisers have three batsmen - David Warner, Shekhar Dhawan and Kane Williamson - in prime form.
 
 In the middle-order, they have Yuvraj Singh and Moises Henriques who can also change the completion of the match at any given point of time.
 
 Even their bowling attack, which has the likes of medium pacer   and leg spinner Rashid Khan, has been economical and incisive, taking regular wickets for their team.
 
 Sunrisers' captain Warner has grown in strength as the tournament has progressed. His best batting show came on Sunday against a top side like the Kolkata Knight Riders, where he smashed an outstanding century.
 
 Comparatively, Delhi's stand in captain Karun Nair hasn't fired in the tournament and there isn't any replacement for him. The hosts are still ruing the loss of their top batsman Quinton de Kock who has missed this year's IPL due to injury.
 
 So what makes the Sunrisers special this season? A strong belief in their abilities and giving more weightage to team's performance than individual contributions makes them a solid unit.
 
 They won the IPL title last year, and not just because of one or two individual efforts. They beat Royal Challengers Bangalore in the final on the dint of sheer team effort. 
 
