Would you like to savour the breathtaking beauty of Siberia’s  , the oldest and deepest lake in the world? Or get a close look of the streets of Philippines where recent drug wars killed over 4,000 people? Or, get up close and personal with the mystical ‘Gris-gris’ wrestlers of Senegal? You can do all that and more right here in Hyderabad, thanks to the 3rd edition of the   (IPF), which has brought to our city some of the most powerful photo stories of the year, from around the world. 
Featuring works of 525 photographers from 40 countries, the 18-day festival is a visual treat. “The objective of festival is to create a platform to appreciate, debate and question the medium of photography by bringing international and local talent on a single platform to help them learn from each other,” says  , photographer and director of the festival.
 Form portraits to landscape, news photos to abstracts, the exhibition features a plethora of pictures from across genres, by both amateurs as well as award-winning photographers. However, addressing social issues through the medium of photography is one of the key objectives of IPF 2017. 
 World Press Photo awardee  , who conducted a two-day workshop at the festival, says, “technological advancements has helped photography make a positive impact in the modern world. Photography, especially documentary photography, is an important medium for both personal expression and social change. There are a lot of ways photography can have a positive impact in the society and one of the ways is by shining the light on the injustice that’s happening everywhere.” 
 Citing examples from the 1960s, when photography highlighted the ills of apartheid in South Africa, Stuart says, “Photography brought a social change during that time in South Africa and also during the 1950s when it was illegal for white men to marry Afro-Americans. During that time, emphatic photography helped to showcase the ills of racism in the US to the world,” he says. 
 The 2010 ICP Infinity Award-winning Iranian-French photojournalist   agrees with Stuart. Talking about how photography can help bring social change, Reza, who is recognised all over for his humanitarian work through 
 photography, says, “One sees well only with the heart. The essential is invisible to the eyes… I am a visual storyteller. I walked 3000 km in the mountains of Afghanistan to get the ‘right’ pictures of the war zone as I feel photography fills the gap of injustice. Art is the solution to a lot of problems. Through photography, one can create a relationship and a human connection.”
 
 
