Panaji/Mapusa: Almost a week after slacking WRD staffers were taken to task by Siolim MLA  , on Wednesday it was the turn of six staffers of the deputy collectorate office,  , to face the rap.  , who paid the collectorate office a surprise visit at 9.15am, found that many employees had not reached office.
 
  Khaunte said six staffers were placed under two-day suspension as they had not reached the office even after 9.45am. “All were given leverage of 15 minutes,” said Khaunte, adding that he would not tolerate any kind of indiscipline in the revenue department.
  
  “If we are trying to implement e-governance or Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-bound Delivery of Public Services) Act, the first thing that needs to be put in order is employees reporting (to work) on time,” said Khaunte maintaining that he is trying to make the department interactive and people-friendly as it caters to every demand of the public.
  
  The government office complex houses important offices such as that of the deputy collector, mamlatdar, town and country planning, block development officer (BDO), inspector of surveys and land records, etc
  
  The revenue minister, who also visited BDO, Mapusa, was in for a rude shock when he found the whole office deserted.
  
  “I was told that the BDO is away conducting inspection, while other staff members had not reached the office,” said Khaunte, adding he wants employees of the revenue department to start their work on time and not put the public to any kind of inconvenience.
  
  “Since the directorate of panchayats does not come under my purview, I have asked the director of panchayats to initiate action,” he said.
  
  The revenue minister wants the collectorate employees to inculcate work discipline as quickly as possible as his ministry is gearing to implement the Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-bound Delivery of Public Services) Act, 2013, starting April 1.
  
  Last week, during his surprise visit to water resources department at  , WRD Minister Vinod Palyekar had found that many staffers missing in action. Some were even caught sleeping. A show cause notice was issued against four, asking why action should not be taken against them.
  
  Chief minister  , during a media interaction last week, had warned that action will be taken against erring employees and that indiscipline will not be tolerated.
  
  Some seven to eight days would be given to employees to correct themselves; crackdown will happen after that, Parrikar had warned.
