LUCKNOW: China Bazar at the end of Hazratganj is the Mecca of Awadhi cuisine. The aroma of galawat kebab and piping-hot biryani tickle taste buds. GenNext kebabis have turned this area into the favourite hunting ground for foodies. 

 In election time, it’s a melting pot for political animals, here one can feel the pulse of the city that votes on Sunday. Going by the typical picture of a poll-bound city, Lucknow hardly presents one. Blame it on ‘DeMon’ or EC’s hawk-eyes, but life-size cutouts are hardly visible — city squares have more billboards of new TV channels with giant pictures of their editors. But yes, at China Bazar, where campaign foot-soldiers tuck into chicken masala during breaks, one can get a sense of the battles being fought here.
 
 “If   has raised the war cry ‘Kaam Bolta Hai” (work speaks), nowhere is it on test more than in Lucknow,” says Ravi Shukla, scooping phirni off his earthen bowl. Most development projects SP is showcasing are linked to Lucknow — from the Metro to the Lucknow-Agra Expressway. The two projects are Akhilesh’s favourites. He mentions them everywhere. 
 
 “SP’s biggest hope is that its projects here would help it repeat its 2012 stellar show, at least here,” says Kamil Rizvi, an Old City businessman. A saffron fort since 1991, when the city became the second home of the Ram Temple movement after Ayodhya and A B Vajpayee adopted this parliamentary seat, Lucknow took a U-turn in 2012, with nine of its seats electing seven SP MLAs. This time it’s a stiff challenge for the ruling party — to prove that its development work has truly impressed voters. The theme of this Lucknow election saga is two women fighting to prove themselves — Aparna Yadav from Cantonment and   from  .
 
 Despite being Mulayam Singh Yadav’s daughter-inlaw, Aparna, 28, had to overcome odds before fi ling her nomination. She got caught in the family war and her ticket was ‘offi cially’ announced at the last moment, though Mulayam declared her candidature a year in advance. She shoulders the gigantic burden — to win a seat SP has never won before. The battle between ‘Chhoti Bahu’ and ‘Badi Didi’, MLA Rita Bahuguna Joshi — contesting on a BJP ticket — is the marquee event. Both have a family name to boast of and a ‘pahari’ connection. 
 
 The fact that their constituency of 3.20lakh voters has a substantial number of Uttarakhandis makes the contest fi ercer. Swati Singh too is in a grudge fi ght. A Lucknow University teacher, who has two children, she turned politician after her husband — former UP BJP vice-president Dayashankar Singh — was arrested for uncharitable remarks against  . Though she never supported her husband’s comments, what galvanised her into holding protest rallies were BSP leaders’ counter-remarks against her teenage daughter. Dayashankar is still officially out of BJP. And she’s been appointed president of the state BJP Mahila Morcha. The assembly ticket is a bonus. She’s going door-to-door reminding people about her humiliation. A victory, she says, would be redemption. BJP’s campaign to regain its lost bastion is spearheaded by three turncoats — Rita Joshi in Cantonment, Brijesh Pathak in Lucknow Central, who switched over from BSP just before the polls and Neeraj Bora, who has been with Congress and BSP in the past, in Lucknow West. Three Akhilesh ministers are defending their turf. Among them are   and Ravidas Mehrotra. A third, SP Shukla, isn’t even an SP candidate. A Mulayam loyalist, he lost the ticket to Akhilesh’s cousin Anurag. Shukla’s in the fi eld with RLD. He’s been sacked from SP.
 
