NEW DELHI: Most Pakistani newspaper editorials said   should abide by the   ( ) ruling that Indian national  's execution be stayed pending its decision.

 To be sure, all of the editorials were in agreement that Jadhav "is a spy", but most said that it was "prudent" or that "there is no other way but" to accept the Hague court's ruling at the risk of inviting diplomatic opprobrium.
 
 Even the few newspapers that didn't explicitly say   should abide by the ruling didn't say Islamabad should defy the ICJ. Also, surprisingly, there were few editorials published in Pakistani newspapers yesterday, the day after the ICJ's verdict. 
 
 "Pakistan will continue to present its case to the ICJ. This is the prudent thing to do since taking unilateral action when expressly forbidden to do so by the ICJ could hurt us diplomatically and take the spotlight away from Jadhav's undoubted spying in the country," said The News International.
 
 Dawn and Pakistan Today said something similar.
 
 Pakistan Today titled its editorial "The requirements of being a responsible UN member" 
 
 "Once the government decided to contest the case, there is no other way than to accept the verdict with all its implications," it said.
 
 In fact, Dawn called "troubling" the "opacity" with which the Jadhav case was heard in Pakistan.
 
 "There are also regional and international dimensions to be considered of Pakistan imprisoning or executing a foreigner convicted in secret of espionage and crimes against the state," it said.
 
 Dawn even added that Pakistan should perhaps consider a civilian trial.
 
 "Perhaps the civilian court route ought to be considered by the state, with suitable accommodations made to shield secret information. The case of Jadhav needs to be handled sensibly and sensitively," its editorial said.
 
 The Nation, said to be close to whichever the dominant 'establishment' is in Pakistan, took a snarky swipe at India, accusing it of opportunism.
 
 "Pakistan has always maintained the stance that bilateral issues should be solved by intervention of multilateral bodies, and completely ignoring the ICJ - as some critics have suggested - like India does in other matters would have contradicted that stance," it sniped.
 
 The Express Tribune meanwhile acknowledged the ICJ's ruling was a "setback" and questioned why Pakistan imagined he   made an exception for alleged or convicted spies.
 
 "Contrary to what we have been led to believe, the VCCR does not create any exceptions for alleged or convicted spies. Since Pakistan and India are co-signatories to the optional protocol of the Vienna Conventions, the International Court of Justice had no hesitation in declaring its jurisdiction over the case," wrote The Express Tribune.
 
