The next time you’re deciding to take a break away from the din of the city, don’t cancel the plan fearing a long commute to reach there. At least, if you are in South Mumbai. The island of Gharapuri that has   Caves — a   World Heritage Site — will soon be a zip and zoom away, quite literally! The   is going to build a   that connects Sewri to Elephanta, which will get you there in just 14 minutes (one way). This is four times less than the than the hour-long duration that a ferry takes. 

 
  
  
 Set to be the country’s first ropeway over the sea, this will connect Mumbai’s mainland with the Elephanta Island over a distance of eight kms. Talking to Bombay Times on this new aerial project,  , Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust, says, “We are extremely keen on this project as it’s going to be a huge help to Mumbaikars, in addition to drawing travellers. As per plans, the two places will be connected by a ropeway, with poles in between. So far, we’ve received expression of interest from 6-7 major bidders and have gone through their ideas. We will now invite regular bids for it.” The ropeway is set to be quite high, roughly at 50-100 metres or more. It will also be crossing over the channel (a ship’s pathway through the water), so the height requirement has to be kept in mind for it’s design. And since it is over the sea, which makes for a tricky route, safety is top priority here. “Yes, the safety factor was primary,” he affirms, adding, “A feasibility study was already done on the project and it was the topmost criteria when thinking of the structure’s working and design.” 
 
 
  
  
 The proposed ropeway will offer a beautiful, sweeping view of the Eastern coastal side of the city. Says an MbPT spokesperson, “This part is more open with large mudflats. It looks beautiful, especially during   season. You will also get a view of the coast, lined with mangroves.”
 
 
 
  
  
 The ride is going to be comfortable and it’s all-season, too! Informs Pradip Kumar Sinha, deputy chief engineer, Mumbai Port Trust, “As per plans, each cable car on the ropeway will accommodate up to 20 people. This number can go up 35, depending on the traffic density and demand. We are expecting more people to use it. The maximum capacity is 5,000-6,000 persons per hour for the ropeway. However initially, when it starts, it will be 2,000 people per hour. Each cable car will be air conditioned, which is a first of its kind here. There will also be communication facilities in each cable car to tackle communication needs might arise during an emergency.” 
  Wondering where you can hop on? Informs Sanjay, “The route will start at Haji Bunder, Sewri and it will end at Gharapuri, that is Elephanta island. Currently, the place is only accessible through an hour-long ferry ride from Gateway of India, so this is really going to cut time and boost tourism. We are expecting more than 10,000 people per day in peak season.” Considering the work that needs to be done, the ropeway will take a while to reach completion. “It will take a few years, but as this is one of our most ambitious projects we are excited about it. We’ve appointed international consultants to do the study on it and Mumbaikars can be prepared for a fabulous design. Get set for a fun ride,” he adds. 
 
 
  
  
 The MbPT also plans to construct a 250-meter high tower, mid-sea. Says Sanjay Bhatia, “The tower will be made as per international standards. To add to the fun, it will have a viewing deck on the top as well as restaurants with a glass base on its lower deck.” If you’re looking for a new way to spend your Sunday, this may fit right in. Sanjay adds, “People are in for a treat with an   restaurant, large entertainment zone, and other facilities, here.”
  Pradip explains further, “The tower will be made of concrete with floors on the deck side. The top will have the viewing gallery and the deck space will have the facilities. The tower will also have four lifts and stairs. The ropeway will be on a three S system (CERN, European standard, considered best in the world) — so it ensures safety and security. It can sustain wind speed up to 70 kms per hour. This ropeway can thus operate all through the year, even during rough monsoons.”
 
 
  
  
 India has ropeways over hilly terrain in places like Saputara, but this new ropeway will beat all the existing ones. “Those are all on a single ropeway system, but this will be a three-rope system (3 S), which ensures safety and security,” says Pradip.
 
 
 The speed of the proposed ropeway is 8 metres per second, faster than the norm. Pradip says, “The Indian Ropeway Act allows only 4-5 metres per second. But the proposed Sewri-Elephanta ropeway can operate at 8 metres per second, which lets you make the distance in 14-15 minutes (each way). So, we are also taking steps to amend the Ropeway Act in order to allow this speed.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
