PATNA: Governor   on Tuesday announced eight names of senior most academics to be appointed as the acting VCs in as many universities as and when the three-year term of incumbents expires.
 
  The governor, who is also the chancellor of state universities, has made these temporary arrangements in view of the delay in appointment of regular VCs in these universities.
  
    (PU)’s zoology professor Sudhir Kumar Srivastava joined as the PU’s acting VC on Tuesday as the term of Y C Simhadri ended on Monday.
  
  Veer Kunwar Singh University’s Prof   Prasad Sinha will take over as the acting VC of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University on Wednesday as incumbent Ezaj Ali Arshad retired on Tuesday. Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University’s jyotishacharya professor   will take over as the acting VC of   on Wednesday as incumbent Ras Bihari Prasad Singh completed his term on Tuesday.
  
  In Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University, senior most professor Vidyadhar Mishra will take over as the officiating VC on Thursday. In B R A Bihar University, Prof Ravindra Kumar Verma Ravi will join as the acting VC on February 3 when the term of Pandit Plande ends.
  
  L N Mithila University’s dean (social science) Raj Kishore Jha will join as the officiating VC on February 5 when incumbent Saket Kushwaha completes his term. Social science teacher Kshemendra Kumar Singh will take over as the acting VC of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University on February 7. Magadh University’s Women’s Studies department head Prof Kusum Kumari will join as the varsity’s acting VC on February 10 when incumbent Md Ishtiaq would complete his three-year term.
  
  Veer Kunwar Singh University and Jai Prakash University got regular VCs recently. The B N Mandal University-Madhepura VC will complete his term much later this year.
  
  In Patna University, Simhadri functioned as the VC till late evening on Tuesday and signed the pension papers of university teachers who retired on Tuesday even though Srivastava, according to governor’s principal secretary E L S N Bala Prasad’s directive, was to officiate as the PU’s acting VC from Tuesday.
  
  Incidentally, Srivastava also joined as the Patna Science College principal and PU dean of the faculty of science on Tuesday afternoon following the superannuation of M N Sinha.
