PUNE: Union minister   on Saturday stressed the need for a regulatory mechanism for   and said they will be made “accountable” as far as quality of education and charging of “unreasonable” fees was concerned. 

 “I welcome private investment in education as quality education is needed. But it has come to light that once they (CBSE schools) get affiliation, there are no restrictions on these schools. Even state officials cannot go to CBSE schools. I will put an end to this as all these schools must offer good education and charge reasonable fees,” he said at an event in Pune. 
 
 Education activists have welcomed the move as there have been many cases of state department officials being denied access to CBSE schools. “It is good that   are coming, but all these institutions should not become a business... We are in the process of formulating a policy (for CBSE schools) as we want coexistence of government and private schools to improve the quality of education,” he said. 
 
 Later, Javadekar told reporters that private institutions should strive for quality education and not bring the commercial aspect into education. “The fees should be reasonable. There are complaints from parents that all these schools charge unreasonable fees,” he said. 
 
 Asked about the problems state education officials face when they go to conduct an enquiry in CBSE schools and if there will be any decision to rectify this, Javadekar said, “We are discussing the matter. The CBSE is just an affiliation body that conducts examinations. It doesn’t have a system or inspector of its own. It creates curriculum, books, it conducts examinations and it gives out certificates.” 
 
 Javadekar also noted that the government has resolved to reform teachers’ education in the country. “On one hand, good BEd colleges are on the verge of closing down, while on the other, there are some fly-by night institutes where degrees can be obtained easily. People take admissions in these institutes by paying lakhs of rupees,” he said. 
 
 He said the ministry was now seeking affidavits from all BEd and DEd colleges. “So far, 6,500 affidavits have been received. Show-cause notices have been issued to those who have failed to submit the affidavits,” he said. Javadekar said the bogus institutes will have to go and only good ones will stay. 
 
 Javadekar congratulated Maharashtra and Rajashtan “where a trend is being seen that parents are pulling their wards from private English medium schools and enrolling them in zilla parishad schools.”
 
