NEW DELHI: ‘Ms X’, a   who had made an allegation of sexual harassment against a former   judge has urged the apex court that her plea not be heard by a judge who had worked with former SC judge in high courts or the apex court earlier.

 As a bench of Justice   and Justice A M Khanwilkar was about to post the case for final hearing,  , counsel for the complainant who is identified as ‘Ms X’, contended that the petition should not be heard by a “colleague judge” of the accused who retired as a Supreme Court judge after serving in high courts. She said the matter should not be heard by Justice Khanwilkar who had worked with him in Bombay high court.
 
 Justice Khanwilkar replied that he had even shared the bench with the former Supreme Court judge in Bombay high court. “How serious is your suggestion? I had also shared the bench with him and it is in public domain. How serious is your objection as I would take a decision on that basis? It would be my personal decision,” Justice Khanwilkar said. Jaisingh insisted that there were many judges in SC who did not work with him and a fresh bench be constituted to hear the case.
 
 The bench, however, said that constitution of a bench was the prerogative of Chief Justice of India and it could not pass order on the issue. She then asked for permission to raise the issue before the Chief Justice of India.
 
 Additional solicitor general  , appearing for Centre, said there was no need to refer the case to another bench. The court, however, allowed her to mention the case before the Chief Justice of India.
 
 The bench was hearing a transfer petition filed by the law intern seeking a transfer of her case from the Delhi high court to a state where the accused judge had not worked.
 
 She expressed apprehension of not getting free and fair hearing in Delhi high court as the former Supreme Court judge had worked there.
 
 The judge, in his affidavit before the apex court , has refuted the allegation against him, saying that the sexual harassment charges against him by the law intern were part of a malicious conspiracy to damage his reputation.
 
 Responding to the apex court’s notice issued to him in 2014 on a petition filed by law intern ‘Ms X’, he said, “The allegations, besides being false to the knowledge of the maker (the intern), are the result of a planned conspiracy against the respondent.”
 
 The court has not examined the merits of the girl’s complaint. On the other hand, it has questioned the over-two-year silence on the intern’s part — from May 2011 till she filed the petition in 2013.
 
