Chandigarh: AAP leader Major General Suresh Khajuria (retired) is believed to be the frontrunner for party ticket for the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha byelection as he scores over other aspirants in being a party leader who can claim to be a local as well as an acceptable Hindu face. Party sources said his name figures in the shortlisted candidates and a formal announcement is expected in next two days.

 Gen Khajuria had joined the party in the run up to the state assembly elections in January. He is vice-president of the ex-servicemen cell of the party’s state unit. Gurdaspur area has sizeable population of ex-servicemen and by fielding Khajuria, the party hopes to make a mark in the Majha region, where it had fared pretty badly in the last assembly elections.
 
 Sources said at least two leaders from other parties, who were keen on switching to AAP, were also in the fray for the ticket but their names were dropped from the initial list of eight probable candidates after a meeting of party leaders on Thursday. “The party has decided not to field any turncoat in the election as it wants to consolidate its cadres in the area,” said an AAP leader.
 
 AAP leader who had contested the assembly election unsuccessfully from Dera Baba Nanak assembly seat, Gurpartap Singh Khushalpur, confirmed that the party had decided to field a local candidate. There was already enthusiasm among community of ex-servicemen about Khajuria’s name being proposed, he added.
 
 “Maj Gen Khajuria is from Pathankot and knows the area well. On the other hand, the Congress is planning to field its state president Sunil Jakhar, who is from Abohar and has no local connect. AAP has decided to contest the byelection whole heartedly and bringing in a strong contender would brighten its chances,” said another leader.
 
 The Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat fell vacant after BJP MP and actor Vinod Khanna died of cancer in April. The polling is scheduled for October 11.
 
 Lakhmeer in race too
 
 Apart from Gen Khajuria, name of former coordinator Lakhmeer Singh has also been proposed by the local AAP leadership as he has been leading the cadres for quite some time. “Lakhmeer could be a surprise choice in case the party leadership wants to reach out to the volunteers to enthuse them,” said a local leader.
 
 
