AURANGABAD: Though Maharashtra was the first state to introduce 30% reservation for women in the police force 46 years ago, the percentage of women in the department remains at about 11.73 per cent.

 Despite this, Maharashtra when compared to other states or   in the country has the highest number of serving  .
 
 As per the figures obtained from the state police headquarters, there are around 26,800 women serving in the state police, out of which about 1,800 are women officers ranking from PSI to  .
 
 “The percentage of women officers in the force is too small. It is just 6.7 per cent of the total women in force. The remaining force of about 93 per cent is of women from the rank of constable to assistant sub-inspector,” said a senior women IPS officer.
 
 While considering the state’s current strength of 2.20 lakh, the number of women cops form just 11.73 % of the state's total police force.
 
 Speaking to TOI, state director general of police (DGP) Satishchandra Mathur said, “Earlier, the number of women cops was just seven per cent but over a period of time we have managed to cross 11 per cent. Though it is far below than what we want it to be, the brighter side to it is that Maharashtra police has got the highest number of women serving in the police department as compared to other states and union territories.”
 
 As per an estimate by senior officers in the department, in spite of the reservations, Maharashtra is likely to take many more decades to achieve the 30% target.
 
 The state police chief said that it will take some more time for the state to meet the target and a series of measures are being taken by the state to attract more women.
 
 “We have also established a dedicated police training school for women. Considering the needs of women in the force, separate budgeting is also being done for them with the help of a number of committees formed for the purpose,” said Mathur.
 
 Authorities said that going by the statistics, the last 10 recruitments carried out by the state police have been fruitful as the state has managed to maintain the percentage of women recruitment to 25 per cent of the total recruitment carried out in the state.
 
 Additional director general of police (provisions) Rajender Singh said, “It is a two-way process. Our efforts will turn out be fruitful only if they are responded equally by the eligible women in the state.”
 
 Serving women IPS officers feel the support from immediate families would help the serving women police to balance their personal as well as professional lives. The officers also feel that the success stories of these women cops would encourage many others to join the department.
 
 Parbhani superintendent of police   said, “Women working in the police department usually come from conservative backgrounds. They need to change their mindsets and understand that their job needs to be their priority as well.”
 
 The officer said families do not offer support in most cases and expect the lady to continue doing her household chores as a housewife, which is impossible
 
 Jalna superintendent of police Jyoti Priya Singh, another women IPS officer, opined that making women cops more visible in various forms of policing, would help change the mindset of the society and will help attracting more and more women in the department. She said, “Apart from better grooming, tougher training, the serving women cops should be given more responsibilities of investigation, detection of serious offences, combating street crimes, property offences and also rope them in while handling law and order situations.”
 
