THRISSUR: Even though there were several debates surrounding the denial of entry to Yesudas in the famed Guruvayur temple, the music maestro had not made any formal request in this regard so far. The temple thanthri Chennas Narayanan Namboodirippad said non-Hindus can enter Guruvayur temple only if they produce a certificate from the Arya Samajam in Kozhikode, stating they have formally embraced Hinduism.

 Guruvayur temple fell under the area ruled by the Zamorins of the erstwhile princely state of Calicut (presently known as Kozhikode). That is why Arya Samajam of Kozhikode has been vested with the powers to issue the conversion certificate for gaining entry into Guruvayur temple, he clarified.
 
 There were reports that Yesudas had made an informal request to P T  , former chairman of the devaswom managing committee.
 
 Mohanakrishnan, reportedly close to Yesudas, was keen to see Yesudas entering the temple during his tenure. However, the thanthri held the view that non-Hindus can enter only with the certificate of the Arya Samajam.
 
 As per reports, Yesudas had taken the position that he was not keen to enter the temple with a conversion certificate.
 
 Yesudas has often spoken about his devotion to Lord Guruvayurappan and has presented concerts at least three times in front of the temple, latest in 1990 when the statue of Anjam Namboodirippad was installed at   on his initiative.
 
 However, he had not been participating in the Chembai music festival being held at the auditorium annually.
 
 According to the managing committee sources he had also politely refused to accept the Guruvayur devaswom's Chembai music award in 2013. Yesudas had said then that it would be inappropriate to accept the award as he cannot enter the temple, without the conversion certificate.
 
 Guruvayur temple steadfastly follows rituals and violation of customs through instances like entry of nonHindus is atoned for by undertaking sudhheekarana (purification) rituals which take long hours.
 
 As per customs, only members of upper caste communities ­ Brahmin, Marar and Warrier ­ can play percussion instruments inside the temple. Even though the devaswom had selected melam artist Vellithiruthi Unni Nair for the Sree Guruvayurappan temple arts award, he was not permitted to play chenda inside the temple.
 
 Interestingly, the VHP has supported the initiative to permit Yesudas to enter the Sree Padmanabha temple in Thiruvananthapuram as well as the Guruvayur temple. “We feel that those who are willing to follow the temple rituals should be permitted to enter the temple, irrespective of their religious background,“ said S J R Kumar, state president, VHP.
 
