Reema  , who personified the amiable mother in Bollywood’s feel-good family blockbusters such as Maine Pyaar Kiya (1989), Hum Aapke Hain Koun (1994) and Kuch Kuch Hota Hai (1998), died of heart attack at a Mumbai hospital on Thursday. She was 58.

 "She complained of chest pain and we took her to the hospital around 1am. She passed away around3.15am. She was perfectly fine and had no health issues. It is really shocking that she is no more with us," her son-in-law, Vinay Waikul, told PTI.
 
 For the past three decades or so, Lagoo was a familiar face in Hindi cinema and a regular in Sooraj Barjatya ventures. The Bombay-born actor was cast as a mother, rather prematurely, in Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak (1988). Lagoo was just 30. Juhi Chawla, who played her daughter in the film, was only nine years younger than her: 21. In the following years she also played mother to Salman Khan and Shah Rukh Khan, both just seven years younger than her.
 
 Yet, says filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, she retained “an unquenchable thirst” to sparkle on screen in roles with depth. “She was an extraordinary actor who was much bigger than the roles that writers and directors took to her. Watch how she lifts a scene in Aashiqui (1990) by accelerating her breathing when her son (Rahul Roy) asks for her mangalsutra,” said Bhatt, who also directed her in films like Naajayaz and, more recently, in the TV drama, Naamkarann.
 
 Film director Aruna Raje, who worked with her in Rihaee (1988), offered a similar view. “Bollywood has a tendency to typecast an actor and reduce his or her spectrum. Anybody who saw her act in Marathi plays would agree with me,” she said.
 
 One gets a glimpse of Lagoo’s versatility in a scene in Rihaee, where she invites Naseeruddin Shah, a rare adult male in a village of absent men and sexually repressed women, to survey a piece of land behind a hillock. “She could express sexuality just through her eyes,” Raje said.
 
 Perhaps her best celluloid performance came in Mahesh Manjrekar’s Vaastav (1999). In the film, she played an upright mother who loves her coke-sniffing, gangster son yet shoots him down in a climax that had shades of Mother India. Only an actor of heft could convey the entire catalogue of emotions -- affection, empathy, distress, disillusionment -- that the role required. Lagoo pulled off the part with aplomb.
 
 Lagoo, who acted in over 150 films, was also part of popular television shows such as Khandaan, Shrimaan Shrimati and Tu Tu Main Main.
 
 In a recent conversation, Bhatt recalls, Lagoo used The Bridges of Madison County, the 1995 Hollywood film starring Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep, as the reference point for a film she wanted him to make. “She wanted me to explore that vast empty space where innumerable Indian women live: a life with a husband and children but no love,” he said. That wish, unfortunately, remained unfulfilled.
 
 (With inputs from agencies)
 
 
