VARANASI: Some fifteen minutes past 10 in the morning,   Anil Srivastava grabs a glassful of buttermilk at Brijesh Yadav's   on a bustling road leading up to the prestigious   (BHU).

 There are five more such outlets with exactly the same name right next to that of Yadav's and one opposite to him. They are run by his nephews or brother. Srivastava's opponents Saurabh Srivastava, from BJP , and Rizwan Ahmad from BSP , had gone to these outlets.
 
 “Just like every petha is called Panchhi Petha in Agra, here every lassi comes from one or the other Pehalwan shop,“ says Brijesh. With BHU's intelligentsia around the corner, mahants of temples, and sharp divide on caste including thakurs, dalits, nishads (boatmen) and theosophical socie ties, the Banaras town survives on its endless political talks and gastronomical highs. None of that is complete without a food trail in Varanasi.
 
 Be it refreshing paan morsel, zesty kachauri bite, piquant tomato and moong namkeen chaat, sweet langlata (flour recipe) or some bhaang, campaigning is not complete without a halt at the famous local shops that serve these delights. According to political scientists, Vara nasi's food and its purveyors have seamlessly dictated the political campaigns and subsequent victories since 1950.
 
 “We have seen three definite periods of feasts and fares since 1952. The first period from 1952 to 1980 belonged to paan and bhaang when Congressman Kamlapati Tripathi, a Brahmin and SP's Raj Narain chewed paans endlessly in their campaigns and served bhaang on Holi or meetings before elections. From 1980 to 2014, there was kachauri and jalebi as then visiting Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was served these dishes in plenty during her campaigns. Of course, 2014 set a trend for tea as Narendrabhai Modi arrived and his campaign was built on that,“ says Koushal Kumar Mishra, professor in political science, who specialises in modern Indian political systems.
 
 “And, 2017 has brought chaat and lassi to the fore,“ he quips, as he himself bites into his favourite meetha paan.
 
