GALLE: India's thumping 304-run win over Sri Lanka in the first Test marks the coming of age of a team which had lost a game from the jaws of victory at the same scenic venue a couple of years back.

 Back in August 2015, a series of overseas defeats had dented India's confidence when they arrived in Sri Lanka. Virat Kohli was still getting used to Test captaincy, while offspinner Ravichandran Ashwin was trying desperately to revive his career.
 
 Legspinner Amit Mishra had replaced an out-of-form Ravindra Jadeja as Ashwin's spin spinner, while the third spinner in the team was a well-past-his-best Harbhajan Singh. Among pacers was the talented but highly erratic Varun Aaron. Creditably on that occasion, the visitors recorded a memorable series win in Sri Lanka after bouncing back from losing the first game.
 
 Cut to 2017. Jadeja is back and thriving after an extremely fruitful home season. The third spinner is a young chinaman called Kuldeep Yadav who can be a dangerous weapon. Instead of Aaron, there's the penetrative Mohammad Shami. And Hardik Pandya offers an exciting seam bowling, allrounder option.
 
 Kohli believes his team's 2017 version is far better than the 2015 one. To put it simply, he feels it has all bases covered. “At that time, it was about planning a lot on how to go a certain way against a certain player. Now, the guys are comfortable with their skills and how they have to bowl, and where they have to bowl and what fields they want.
 
 “That's the biggest change that I see (in this team).They're more confident in their own abilities because of having performed consistently in the last two years,” he said. “They know what they have to do on the pitch to get people out now, which is the most important factor; Especially in Tests, if you are not getting wickets, then (they know) how to contain runs or how to create opportunities to get wickets.”
 
 “Even batsmen have become smarter now. You don't need to necessarily tell someone how to bat or how to plan an innings. They prepare themselves well. So, the guys have become more professional in the last two years, and they understand how Tests are won. That understanding of the game is something that has come along a long way in the last three years,” the skipper said.
 
 On a personal front, Kohli said his recent mini-slump didn't bother him: “I wasn't certainly looking at things like how many innings I haven't scored. I think people on the outside start counting the number of innings.”
 
