AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will hold a conference on   and management as part of its 10-day celebration from August 1 to mark the   status for Ahmedabad. The AMC will create a separate website for the World Heritage City.

 According to municipal commissioner  , experts from India and abroad will take part in the conference. On Friday, the AMC organized a meeting for the purpose in which intellectuals and those associated with the city’s heritage took part. Kumar said that a new tourist coach will be launched as a part of the celebration.
 
  Subhash Brahmbhatt, an Indologist and principal of  , suggested that the city should have 50 heritage rickshaws — different in look as compared to a normal rickshaw — to cater to the need of the tourist wanting to see the city. He said the AMC should ask the postal department to released five-six stamps and cover on the different monuments of the city. Brahmbhatt also advocated that hotels should be made to put up photographs of the city monuments in their premises and a heritage brochure should be kept at the counter.
 
 Historian   urged the AMC to come out with a journal where both national, local and international writers should be permitted to write. Jagdeep Mehta, a heritage house owner who attended the meeting, suggested that in order to reduce pollution in the Walled City, e-rickshaw should be introduced.
 
 Girish Gupta, who is associated with the heritage walk, suggested that students and senior citizens should be roped in as tourist guide to cater to the tourist flow in the area which is going to increase.
 
 Other speakers suggested that the names of the city monuments should be uniform everywhere. 
 
 There are several monuments whose names are not in accordance with the original names and now they are being used with the distorted names. The AMC should first fix these names. The speakers during the meeting also demanded that monuments outside the city should also be categorized and even their maintenance should be taken up.
 
 Mayor Gautam Shah said that at present Ahmedabad has only 3% of the total the tourist number in the state but this is likely to increase to 16% after the World Heritage City status.
 
