Madurai: Seeking to pass an order on the demand to implement old   for government employees by receiving a report from the expert committee constituted to examine the demand, a petition has been filed before the Madras high court Madurai bench. The bench, in turn, directed the additional chief secretary to finance (PGC) to file a report regarding the activities of the expert committee.

 Teacher P Frederic Engels from Dindigul filed the plea. It came up for hearing before justice T Raja. The petitioner said that the government introduced contributory pension scheme for government employees who joined from April 1, 2003. By this new pension scheme, employees’ retirement benefits of pension, family pension, gratuity and provident fund have been deprived. But, those benefits are available under the old pension scheme. 
 
 Challenging the said scheme, the petitioner filed a case before the high court bench, which is kept pending. Meanwhile, many government employees’ association have been demanding to cancel the contributory pension scheme and to implement the old pension scheme. 
 
 The chief minister on February 19, 2016 under Rule 110 announced that the demand needed to be examined, for which an expert committee would be constituted. Based on the recommendations, the government would take appropriate decision. 
 
 Accordingly, the government constituted the committee and asked it to file a report in four months. As the committee did not complete its task, the government has so far extended the committee’s tenure for three times. But, the petitioner came to know through RTI that the committee is yet to file a report. 
 
 It also told that the Supreme Court has held that the pension is neither a bounty nor a matter of grace depending upon the sweet will of the employer; that the pension is not an ex-gratia payment but it’s a payment for the past service rendered and that it is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice to those who in the heyday of their life ceaselessly toiled for the employer on an assurance that in their old age they would not be left in the lurch. 
 
 Requesting to get a report from the committee and pass an order on the demand, the petitioner sent a representation to the additional chief secretary on July 1. But, there was no action on it. Hence, it was necessary to issue a direction to the additional chief secretary and state’s planning, development and special initiatives principal secretary to pass order on the demand by receiving report from the expert committee, the petitioner said. 
 
 Following it, the judge sought a report regarding the activity of the committee and adjourned the case by three weeks.
 
 
