UDUPI: For over two centuries, the Sode Mutt of Udupi and the Subramnya Mutt of   have been at loggerheads. However, in a bid to end the centuries’ long feud, the pontiffs of the two mutts have decided to have a conciliatory meeting in Udupi on May 29. The pontiffs of the two mutts -   of Subramanya Mutt and Vishwavallabha Theertha Swamiji of Sode Vadhiraj Mutt - will meet at the   temple in the presence of the Pejawar Mutt seer. 

 The Subramanya Mut seer dubbed his upcoming meeting with the Sode Mutt seer an “auspicious” event. “We both want to improve the relationship between the two mutts. There is no personal hatred between us seers. Both mutts follow the tradition of Sri Madhwacharya. This marks a new beginning for all the mutts. It’s a sign to the people to maintain peaceful relationships with others, and forget the bitterness of the past,” said Prasanna Theertha Swamiji, adding that the feud must not have lasted for such a long time.
 
 The feud between the two establishments dates back to the 18th century when the mutts were headed by brothers, who hailed from   village. “Sode Mutt was headed by two brothers for more than 60 years. Sri Vishwaidhi Theertha Swamiji headed the Mutt from 1740 to ’53, and his brother Vishwadeeshwara Theertha Swamiji was the pontiff from 1753 to 1803. They had another brother, who was the pontiff of Subramanya Mutt. It was when Vishwadeeshwara Swamiji was the seer of Sode Mutt that the feud between the two establishments erupted. The Sode Mutt seer had told the Subramanya Mutt pontiff that he would attend a ceremony at Kukke. However, with the Kumaradhara River flooding, he was unable to reach the venue. When the Subramanya Mutt seer went ahead with the puja without waiting for his brother, differences emerged between the two mutts, which lasted for more than two centuries,” said Srinivas, diwan of Sode Mutt.
 
 Prakash Kalkura, who is involved in the activities of Krishna Mutt, said that many pontiffs through the years had hesitated to revive relations between the two mutts, since they were apprehensive about breaking from tradition. “The seer of Sode Vadhiraj Mutt Vishwavallabha Theertha Swamiji and Vidya Theertha Swamiji of Subramanya Mutt have decided to bury the differences by organising a conciliatory meeting at the Anantheshwara Temple. They want the meeting to proceed smoothly without any problems and are being very careful,” he added.
 
 A series of events have been oragnised between May 29 and 31. A bajana procession has been oragnised on May 30 to welcome the seer of Subramanya Mutt, while a Samsthana Puja has been scheduled for 31 by the pontiff of Sode Mutt.
 
 
