CHENNAI: Since May last year,   has operated a direct hotline for passengers facing issues like requirement of Emergency Quota (EQ) tickets, overcharging on platforms or trains, or lack of ticket examiners or security on trains. The continuation of this hotline is now uncertain, as the zone has revoked the position of officer on special duty (OSD) to the chief commercial manager (CCM), who was in charge of the hotline.

 The orders transferring the existing OSD to CCM, D Lakshmanan, back to the post of deputy CCM/passenger services were passed on March 31 by the general manager’s office.
 
 There is no clarity on whether the hotline number (044-25354405) will be continued or terminated. “The same officer may continue to do the same,” said the general manager Vashishta Johri.
 
 These orders have incidentally been passed a day after the retirement of Ajeet Saxena from the CCM’s post. Saxena had envisaged the post as a direct interface between passengers and the  . Direct hotline numbers were also created in all the six divisions of the zone.
 
 The OSD to CCM has handled around 400 queries in the past 11 months ranging from senior citizens and women travelling alone on trains needing a lower berth to complaints of harassment of passengers by co-passengers who did not have confirmed tickets. 
 
 The scheme was so popular that when the mobile number of the officer was initially given, it led to a barrage of calls. Later, the zone advertised that passengers should call on the landline number instead. Issues pertaining to other departments, like lack of water in coaches, were routed through dedicated staff working under the OSD.
 
 Incidentally, the move comes a day after leaders of   (SRMU), the sole recognised employees union of the zone, announced at a public meeting that ‘other officials wanted many decisions taken by Saxena to be reversed.’ SRMU has clashed with Saxena over the last one year and also filed a case in the Madras high court which stayed his appointment as a member in the   (RCT).
 
