MUMBAI: Banks with unsound financials face the prospects of a merger or winding up, or even risk their board and management being sacked by the Reserve Bank of India ( ). These are some of the extreme measures that the central bank has in mind for banks that badly breach the threshold for bad loans and minimum capital requirements.

 The RBI on Thursday came out with a revised set of ‘prompt corrective action’ (PCA) — steps that it will take to get failed banks back on track. While the   guidelines have been around since 2002, what the RBI did on Thursday was to reset the trigger points. 
 
 According to norms, the RBI gets into action when the capital adequacy falls below a certain level or when bad loans rise beyond a certain point. There are different corrective actions for each milestone.
 
 The central bank has said that a shortfall of the common equity tier I capital by 3.625% from prescribed limits “would identify a bank as a likely candidate for resolution through tools like amalgamation, reconstruction, or winding up”. The current minimum requirement of common equity tier I capital is 6.75%.
 
 Under the new trigger points, banks with net non-performing assets between 6% and 9% (risk threshold 1) will face restrictions on dividend payments with promoters being asked to bring in more capital. Those with net NPAs between 9% and 12% would not be allowed to expand branches. This is in further to earlier restrictions. Banks that breach the third level of NPAs will face restrictions on management compensation as well.
 
 The move to change bank boards or their management, wind up banks or merge them is an extreme measure and a discretionary one. However, there are other mandatory restrictions that automatically come into effect when banks breach the trigger points in terms of capital or bad loans. The mandatory action includes restrictions on dividends, bonus payments and opening of new offices. 
 
 According to the PCA framework, the bank is required to undertake a special drive to reduce NPAs and contain generation of fresh NPAs, review loan policy and take steps to strengthen credit appraisal skills, and follow up advances. Besides, the bank has to put in place proper credit-risk management policies, reduce loan concentration, restrict entering new lines of business, and increase stake in subsidiaries.
 
 
