Mumbai: A little-known builder has cornered the redevelopment rights of nine municipal markets worth a conservative Rs 5,000 crore, some of them in prime localities, but has failed to revamp them for more than a decade.

 Although the agreements for redevelopment stipulated a time limit for completing the projects, a benevolent civic administration keeps on extending the contract and renewing permissions granted to Manthan Builders and Developers. Documents accessed by TOI show a construction period of 36 months from the date of the commencement certificate or from the date of the letter of intent. In most cases, these permissions expired several years ago.
 
 Some of the major civic markets that have been languishing since the past decade include the landmark Pali Market in Bandra and municipal markets in Khar, Dadar, Vile Parle, Vakola, Tilak Nagar and Vikhroli.
 
 The Pali market is probably the most lucrative where the builder received preliminary sanctions in 2006. But construction work has stalled at the first level for six years. The developer’s website shows an 18-storey luxury residential tower, Manthan Embassy, on the Pali Market plot.
 
 After last week’s massive civic demolition drive in Pali Naka, licensed hawkers and shopkeepers who were to be rehabilitated by the developer complained that cheques received from the builder for their alternate accommodation bounced. The builder was then forced to quickly issue fresh post-dated ones.
 
 And last year, local citizens’ groups in Bandra (West) complained to the BMC when they found that the developer was trying to market commercial space inside the market even though work had stalled.
 
 At Chembur’s Tilak Nagar market, the builder received the commencement certificate in April 2011, but work stalled at the plinth level. Of the nine markets, only the one at Vakola has been completed in the past ten years by this builder.
 
 Abhijeet Rane, promoter of Manthan Group, did not respond to phone calls and text messages sent by this newspaper.
 
 “Despite repeated breaches by the developer in the past, he has been awarded fresh contracts with ulterior motives by the BMC,” said activist Godfrey Pimenta of Watchdog Foundation. “The civic chief should exercise his powers to terminate the agreements,” he added.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta, who has asked his officials to brief him about the status of these markets, said, “We will be intensifying action against the developer to ensure that either they do it within a timeframe or else the BMC takes over the markets.”
 
 Pimenta said an   reply received from assistant engineer (market), BMC, on July 5, 2017 reveals that nine markets are to be developed by Manthan Builders. “But most of them are yet to see the light of the day in the form of full-fledged markets,” he added.
 
 BJP   Ashish Shelar, who represents the Bandra (West) assembly constituency, said he will ask the commissioner to terminate permissions given to the developer if he is unable to start them. “The developer’s letter of intent should be cancelled and project completed by another agency,” said Shelar. The MLA said the Pali Market redevelopment was plagued with civil aviation obstacles as well as a huge premium levied by the BMC on the builder.
 
 Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said despite the developer’s inability to redevelop Pali Market, he has been awarded contracts to redevelop other municipal markets as well. “It is inexplicable how he managed to do that,’’ he said. Madhu Poplai, secretary of Pali Hill Residents’ Association, said redeveloping markets to international standards will not be possible under this developer given his past experience.
 
  corporator Annant Nar, who heads the civic improvements committee, said under his tenure, four markets have already been taken back from developers. “We will inquire into these nine markets too,” he said.
 
 Manthan Group claims to have more than 16 ongoing projects in Mumbai. “Manthan Group has taken up several redevelopment projects in Mumbai and is well-versed with all the systems required for the successful completion of such projects. Their liaison efforts with the authorities has yielded strong dividend in the fact that all these projects, have obtained sanctions and approvals at all levels,” said the developer’s website.
 
