BENGALURU: The Indian   team will take its first steps towards achieving debutant non-playing skipper  's long-term target of getting back into the World Group with their most inexperienced team in recent years.

 With two rank newcomers in   and   and another newbie in Ramkumar Ramanathan, doubles ace   is the only player with real experience going into the match against Uzbekistan on Friday. Shouldering the weight of expectation ahead of the Asia Oceania Group I, second round encounter at the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association, the youngsters had to deal with the drama that played out following veteran pro  ' omission from the team. After days of speculation and Paes' arrival in the city on Tuesday following a win in the Leon Challenger in Mexico, Bhupathi axed his former partner in favour of Bopanna.
 
 "It was a tough decision," Bhupathi said. "That's why I wanted to wait till the last minute. I was clear that I wanted three singles players and one doubles specialist. A couple of boys have never played before and certainly not under stress situations. Going in with a specialist doubles team would have been a risk," explained Bhupathi. The backlash that ensued is something the team, especially 22-year-old world No. 267 Ramkumar, will have to quickly move on from as he takes on Uzbek youngster Temur Ismailov in the opening singles match. The 27year-old Prajnesh later faces Sanjar Fayziev in the second clash under lights.
 
 "It's a five-set match and I don't know how it will be. I've never been in this situation before. Hopefully I'm able to play to expectation. You need to be physically and mentally at your best," said Praj nesh. Interestingly, the Indians too know little about their rivals apart from what YouTube has thrown up, with Uzbekistan fielding an equally young and inexperienced team barring 30-year-old Farrukh Dustov. Their talisman   didn't travel after being laid low by a foot injury. World No. 406 Ismailov and No.376 Fayziev have a total of just six Davis Cup matches under their belt, giving these meetings the feel of ITF Challengers rather than a premier international team event.
 
 With the relaid courts playing fast and the altitude helping accelerate big serves, the Indians will fancy their chances. 
 
