PUNE: A   tie always generates excitement in Indian tennis circles. As India get ready to take on New Zealand at the Balewadi here from Friday, the talk revolves around why India have failed to win a place back in the 16-team World Group.

 Anand Amritraj, captaining India in his farewell tie, said: "We did quite well to be in the three World Group playoffs in the last three years." India failed to win all three, winning three of 14 rubbers in three ties. Coach   said: "We faced the toughest teams in Serbia, Czech Republic and Spain in the World Group playoffs. We had an outside chance only against the Czech Republic."
 
  showed his class in the doubles match against Spain's   and Marc Lopez. His inspired performance, coupled with the selectors' decision to go for three singles players, has kept   out of the New Zealand tie. Paes will attempt to overtake Italian legend Nicola Pietrangeli's tally of 42 doubles wins in Davis Cup on Saturday. The focus on personalities -rather than quality of Indian tennis -has ensured that Indian tennis' following has travelled from singles to doubles; and from Davis Cup World Group to qualifiers. Somdev Devvarman has played 14 Grand Slam tournaments in singles, just one less than Paes. But the din of doubles has been overpowering. While Amritraj feels that the doubles is an easier option and should be explored only after the 30s, Zeeshan has got a different take on it. He said nobody starts tennis with a dream of becoming a doubles player but "if at 24, you are not in the top-100 in world singles, I fully support players' decision to shift to the doubles."
 
 Zeeshan also argued that the ideal Davis Cup format would be of three singles matches and two doubles and not the existing distribution of 4+1. But he is aware that there are practical difficulties. Zeeshan comes up with a figure: India are in the top-20 among the 140-odd Davis Cup playing countries. He also dubbed Saketh Myneni among the best servers on the tour. "We need three players in top-100 to have realistic chances of doing well in the World Group consistently," he said.
 
 When Ramanathan Krishnan, Vijay Amritraj and Ramesh Krishnan were among the world-class singles players, India made deep forays into the Davis Cup World Group. These three stalwarts were then regulars in Grand Slam singles, but the dynamics of the game were far different then. Now, the serve and service return are the most influential shots in the game. India have been found wanting in both. "The great serve is a product of everything coming together the physique, fitness, diet and technique," said Zeeshan. "We can't expect a 5' 7" guy to serve big consistently. But Indians are progressing. Our sporting ethos is improving too."
 
 Now, to the paradox: Despite the advancement of fitness techniques and facilities, today's tennis players are not fitter than the Krishnans and Amritrajs.And hence the decision to include three singles players - Saketh Myneni, Yuki Bhambri and   - in the team for the three-day tie. 
 
