KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Monday slammed the police for adding offences allegedly not mentioned in the complaint against   chairman  .

 A single bench of the court criticized police after the counsel of Krishnadas pointed out that more offences had been added against his client than what was mentioned in the first information statement (FIS) filed by the complainant.
 
 Police had earlier accused Krishnadas of abetment to suicide in the case over the death of Jishnu Pranoy, a BTech student at  , Pambady. The high court had, while granting a conditional anticipatory bail to Krishnadas, noted that these offences are not attracted in the case as witnesses’ statements do not reveal any role for him in torturing the deceased.
 
 The anticipatory bail plea filed by Krishnadas now alleged that police had added offences such as wrongful restraint, causing hurt and criminal intimidation in the case to surpass the bail granted earlier. The FIS had claimed that Jishnu was asked to come to the college to discuss a complaint he filed against the college management before ‘Sutharya Keralam’, the public grievance redressal initiative of the state government, and beaten up in the presence of the college chairman.
 
 Questioning the police action, the court asked if the police had any grievance than what was stated by the complainant in the FIS. Why was the case registered with offences not mentioned in the FIS, it asked.
 
 The court also said police officers should not try to make fools out of judges and warned that it knew how to deal with such officers. Police should not try to investigate the case according to public sentiments and the records should reflect true facts, it said, adding that the police officer would not be allowed to continue in service if the case was proved false.
 
 The court said such instances could affect the way in which other cases were conducted before the court and the court could not remain a mute spectator if police officers tried to manipulate facts.
 
