Indore: After accessing the fitness of the players on Sunday, Kings XI Punjab got down to work for the Indian Premier League’s season 10, sweating it out in a gruelling two-hour net sessions at Holkar stadium on Monday morning and evening. 

 The team came at the stadium for both the sessions without their newly appointed captain, Glenn Maxwell, who will join the squad later on. 
 
 Unlike Sunday when the team reached the stadium at 3.30pm, the team reached the stadium around 6 pm on Monday for the training session probably owing to heat waves prevailing in the city. 
 
 Limited over specialist Eoin Morgan and left-handed batsman David Miller were also seen on the ground practicing with the team. 
 
 The entire team barring a few international players had a two-hour training session this morning in cooler temperatures than they had witnessed during Sunday afternoon. 
 
 All the players took part in stretching exercises and running under close supervision of head of cricket operations for KXIP, Virendra Sehwag, along with their physical trainer. Thereafter, they went to nets.
 
 Hashim Amla, who is one of the contenders to open for his team in absence of Murali Vijay, was the first one to hit the nets on the first day of the session. 
 
 Sandeep Sharma, the right-arm medium pacer, began bowling to Amla and bowled him out with his third delivery at the nets. 
 
 The players were seen pressing surface to assess hardness of soil and then consulting with each other. Franchise owner Preity Zinta was also at the stadium during the net session in evening. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association chief pitch curator Samandar Singh Chouhan said, “The players are very happy with ground especially Sehwag, who has played on this ground and knows it very well.” 
 
 A number of young fans gathered outside Holkar stadium to get glimpse of their favourite cricketers. The fans outside the stadium were hoping to get entry into the stadium to see the practise sessions like many other previous matches. 
 
 In the past, cricketers used to practice in presence of cricket crazy crowd. But strict regulations of International Cricket Council (ICC) and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) forced the crowd away from the ground. Thus the crowd was not allowed to enter the stadium during the nets also. 
 
 
