PATNA: Will   (PU) get a competent vice-chancellor this time, particularly in its centenary year? This question is being asked by the academics who have had a bitter experience in recent times.
 
  Necessary formalities for the selection of candidates for the coveted post of VC of this premier university have already been completed. All the shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the search committee constituted for the purpose by the chancellor on Friday and Saturday. The search committee headed by Central University of Gujarat chancellor and former   minister Y K Alagh, had IIT Patna former director A K Bhowmick and PU former vice-chancellor L N Ram as members.
 
 More than three dozen academics interacted with the search committee members on several issues confronting higher education in general and candidates’ subject of specialization in particular. The committee has submitted to the chancellor a panel of five names for the post out of which one will be appointed by the chancellor in consultation with the chief minister shortly, said sources.
  
  However, PU teachers want that only a candidate having wide academic experience and interest in development be appointed as the new VC to redeem the university of all ills. Right since its inception in 1917 with J G Jennings as its VC, PU has seen as many as 50 VCs till date and eagerly awaiting the arrival of the 51st one. But, only a few of them have left their imprint on the university’s canvas through their meaningful contributions to its academic and infrastructural development, they say.
  
  Old timers recall that the major buildings, including PU office and  , were constructed during the tenure of Sir Sultan Ahmad (1923-30). They recall the valuable contributions of Sachidanand Sinha (1936-44) in the PU’s academic development. However, it was during the period of Sir C P N Singh (1945-49) when more than six new post-graduate departments, including psychology, ancient Indian history and archaeology, labour and social welfare, botany, zoology, geology and statistics were established in the university. Another VC, who is remembered for his outstanding contributions in all-round development of PU, is George Jacob (1962-65). The   complex of PU came into being during his period.
  
  In recent times, K K Jha (2001-04) tried his best to streamline the financial condition of PU by creating a corpus fund ensuring timely payment of salaries to the teachers and non-teaching staff. He also restored the old practice of holding annual convocation. Then Y C Simhadri (2006-08) is also remembered for enforcing discipline on the campus, regularizing the academic sessions and introducing more than 50 vocational courses in the university.
 
 However, he did not prove effective during his second stint (2014-17), said a senior teacher of the university.
  
  “PU teachers expect the new incumbent to ensure all-round physical and academic development of the university so that it could compete with the best modern universities in the country,” said PU Teachers’ Association general secretary Anil Kumar Sinha.
