Startling revelations made by the state Prohibition and Excise department following the recent drug bust in the city has set alarm bells ringing. 

 Parents and school managements were in for a shock when e-mails, WhatsApp messages and call details of those arrested revealed that students as young as 13 from reputed schools in Hyderabad are hooked to sinister psychotropic drugs such as LSD and MDMA. While some parents are terming the episode the society’s failure as a whole, others have suggested the need to strike a balance between liberty and restraint on the part of parents and schools to help curb recurrence of such incidents. 
 
 I confess, I hadn’t even heard of these drugs. as parents we should stay up to date The incident is an eye-opener for the society. I think we —both parents and schools —have to own up and take responsibility. It is very scary to see young kids getting addicted to drugs such as LSD and MDMA. We as parents send our children to reputed schools, try to imbibe and inculcate good values in them and if still they are resorting to drugs, we seriously need to introspect where we went wrong. 
 
 Incidents such as these are indicators that somewhere we are failing as a society. I strongly believe that it’s the joint responsibility of parents and the schools to monitor what the kids are up to. We need to observe if they are exhibiting any behavioural changes, and constantly update ourselves about the web. When the names of the drugs were disclosed, I realised that I hadn’t even heard of any of them. They were not there when we were growing up. So, we need to educate ourselves about a lot of things before we even decide to have a heart-to-heart with our children. Many parents give a lot of freedom to their children and we need to change that and strike a balance between liberty and restraint. 
 — Haimanti Paulsarker, social entrepreneur and mother of a 13-year-old
 
 We must let our kids feel confident enough to speak to us about issues they otherwise fight silently
 The revelations made by the law enforcement authorities after the bust has hit us hard. I have two sons and it made me sit down and contemplate my next step — how would I have reacted had they been my children? I really feel for the parents and empathise with what they must be going through now. It’s scary to say the least. 
 
 I believe, as parents, we must take our kids into confidence and let them speak up about issues they otherwise silently fight. It’s easy for them to fall prey to these social evils if they don’t have someone to confide in. We, being parents, also know our children well enough to observe behavioural changes in them. But after this incident, I think we need to be doubly alert and monitor their everyday things as much as we can. If we can’t, we are equally to be blamed for. I think we should have a group or a forum where kids can be educated about things outside their academic curriculum. Be it drugs or other issues such as mental health and peer pressure, it’s high time both parents and school managements to rein in the kids and step up vigilance, be it their smartphones or time spent on the Internet.
 —  , entrepreneur and mother of two children, aged 12 and 13 
 
 
 I personally think it is the collective responsibility of both parents and schools to keep children away from the ills of the society, and drugs probably are the worst. Children are impressionable and are always curious to try new things. This is where discretion should be stringently applied. We need to give more time and discuss issues with our children so that they don’t feel alienated at home as well as in schools.
  Parents should monitor what their kids are doing with the pocket money and their smartphones too need to be examined on a regular basis. The incident has highlighted how easily drugs are available in the city and certainly, the onus is on everybody, be it the law enforcement authorities, parents or the schools, to help our children. If parents find their wards addicted, they shouldn’t shy away from taking professional help and visit rehabilitation centres. The schools too should have in-house counselling experts on these subjects. I seriously hope we can make this right by taking necessary steps taken on our part. 
 —  , social activist and mother of three teenagers 
 
 One thing the drug bust has taught us is that we seriously need to update ourselves with the changing times, especially with the Internet. You must learn the jargons that today’s kids use. Three to four months before this incident, while on an evening walk, my daughter told me that she heard some students in her school talking about drugs. I immediately apprised the principal about it and he promised to step up vigilance in the premises. A kid spends most of his time with schoolmates, so I think teachers need to be more watchful and when off the school premises, it is the responsibility of the parents. 
 Both parents and school authorities need to shoulder this responsibility. If you ask me, I will say this drug bust is just the tip of the iceberg. Especially in the Sainikpuri area, it is very prevalent. And I personally feel the cops are hand-in-glove with the perpetrators. As a remedy, we should own up the failure and try to be extra careful while monitoring our kids on an everyday basis. 
 —  , business developer and father of a 16-year-old 
 
 Parents have to take complete responsibility for what happened with their wards in this particular case. Most schools in the city have strict rules, and when it comes to allowing outsiders inside the campus, the rules are even more severe. So, there is no chance of students getting the drugs in the school premises or during school-hours. I think both the parents and law enforcement authorities need to do their bit to fight this menace. 
 The cops should take strict action against perpetrators and curb the flow of narcotics into the city and augment their vigilance. Having said that, I strongly believe that everything begins at home. Hence, parents should strive to provide a healthy atmosphere to their children at home and try and inculcate good values in them so that they don’t fall prey to such ills of the society out of frustration and depression.
 — Meghana Musunuri, founder of a school and mother of two students, aged 11 and 9
 
 
 
 
