MUMBAI:   ( ) said it will challenge a   order from yesterday that banned it from trading in equity derivatives for a year and that also imposed a hefty Rs 1,000 crores penalty on it for fraudulently trading such securities.

 RIL said it plans to challenge the market regulator's order in the  . Sebi's order related to a 2007 case of trading in RIL's unit   ( ).
 
 "The trades in RPL shares which were examined by SEBI were genuine and bona fide transactions. These were carried out keeping the best interest of the company and its shareholders, in view," RIL noted in a press statement issued yesterday after the regulator's order.
 
 In the statement, RIL also talked about the financial sanctions Sebi imposed on it.
  
 "SEBI appears to have misconstrued the true nature of the transactions and imposed unjustifiable sanctions," it said.
 
 In a 54-page order released late Friday, Sebi banned RIL and 12 of its associate companies from trading in equity derivatives for one year "directly or indirectly" because it fraudulently traded securities in the 2007 case.
 
 The case relates to alleged fraudulent trading in the futures and options (F&O) segment in RPL, which was a subsidiary of RIL at the time. (It has since merged with RIL.) Derivatives are financial instruments traded on exchanges which include F&O contracts. The prices of such contracts are derived directly from the stock price.
 
 Sebi also directed RIL to pay a huge penalty for fraudulent trading in the 2007 case. The total fine of Rs 1,000 crore includes Rs 447 crore plus 12% interest on that amount multiplied by 10 years. RIL has to pay up in 45 days.
 
 RIL said it expects to be vindicated when it challenges Sebi's "untenable findings" in the order.
 
 "We propose to prefer an appeal and challenge the order in (the) Securities Appellate Tribunal. We remain confident of fully justifying the veracity of the transactions and vindicating our stand," it said.
 
 RIL is India's largest private sector company, with a consolidated turnover of Rs 296,091 crore ($44.7 billion), cash profit of INR 40,737 crore ($6.1 billion), and net profit of INR 27,630 crore ($4.2 billion) for the year ended March 31, 2016.
 
 
