PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   (PCMC) will start a   (BRT) service on the   in the next three months.

 This comes contrary to the reports that state it will be scrapped for implementing metro project, albeit after nearly a five-year delay.
 
 The civic body had widened the 12km-long Pune-Mumbai highway from Dapodi to Nigdi to 10 lanes under the Union government’s Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission(JNNURM) and wanted to start the service in 2012. The highway has four concrete lanes for quicker travel with only one stop at Nashik Phata Chowk. There are service roads with dedicated bus lanes on either side of the highway.
 
 Apprehensions were raised about the safety of commuters due to over a dozen merge-ins and outs on both sides of the highway on which vehicles ply.
 
 Some social organisations and activists raised these safety concerns and opposed the launch of BRT service. One of them approached the high court for directing the PCMC to not start the service without adequate safety measures for commuters. As a result, PCMC had appointed IIT Mumbai to prepare a safety audit report of the highway and submit a report in 2012.
 
 The Union government has approved the construction of the 16km long Swargate-Pimpri metro route, which passes through the Pune-Mumbai highway in PCMC limits. There are reports of metro officials demanding permission from PCMC to erect the pillars for the elevated metro on the BRT lanes.
 
 Reacting to it, Vijay Bhojane, spokesperson, BRT cell, PCMC said, “PCMC plans to launch the BRT bus on the highway in three months. The private contractor needs to repair 14 old bus stations and hand it over to us. We will transform them to uniformity. It will cost around Rs 3.70 crore. The civic body will spend another Rs 1.7 crore on installing automatic doors, electrical fittings and signs at its 22 new bus stations.”
 
 “We will ask the PMPML to deploy traffic wardens at the merge-ins and outs to regulate the traffic in order to avoid collisions with BRT buses,” Bhojane said. 
 
 Maha Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “The metro is elevated in PCMC limits and passes over the highway. It can run on its margins, service roads or in the middle. Metro will not profit or incur any loss due to it. It is entirely upto PCMC to decide where the metro must run. Our soil sample survey is over. The construction work is expected to start in two to 2.5 months.”
 
 
