AURANGABAD: The number of   in the district has been increasing steadily, though marginally, every year, raising a question mark over the administration’s approach towards dealing with the deadly disease.

 The Central government has geared up for eliminating tuberculosis (TB) from by 2025 and has started various campaigns, including free check-ups and medicines, to make it a success. Despite all this, the number of   patients in Aurangabad refuses to decline.
 
 In 2012, as many as 1,092 patients were tested positive for tuberculosis which gradually increased to 1,201 in 2016. Further, in the first two months of 2017, the municipal authorities have already registered over 200 positive cases of tuberculosis. This means roughly around 100 patients are being infected by this disease every month.
 
 On being asked about the rising number of TB patients, municipal authorities attributed it to the awareness programmes started by the government. “Because of various programmes started by the government, the patients even from remote places are coming forward and undergoing free of cost treatment for tuberculosis,” AMC medical officer   said.
 
 She added the authorities have effectively treated the patients, who tested positive, and succeeded in bringing down the number deaths due to TB. “As per the international standards, the percentage of deaths in the city due to tuberculosis is well within 5% of the total number of infected persons,” Patrikar said.
 
 It should be noted that out of the total cases of tuberculosis found in the country in recent years, most patients are in the age group of 14 and 24. In the last quarter of 2016, the municipal authorities recorded 300 cases of tuberculosis, of which 88 are between age group of 14 and 24. To this, Patrikar said TB is common among youths who keep moving from one place to another.
 
 TB is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. It is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected. 
 
 From Februaury, over 1.3 lakh tuberculosis patients in the state switched over to daily drug regimen from the thrice-a-week treatment course.
 
 Maharashtra was among the five states—others are Bihar, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim—to roll out the daily drug treatment for TB in India earlier this year. However, it was initially meant only for patients with TB-HIV co-infection. The switchover followed findings by experts who said the old regimen led to increased cases of drug resistance and relapse among TB patients.
 
 “We started daily drug regimen for TB-HIV co-infected patients in Maharashtra from December 1, 2016. Now, the Union government has extended the daily treatment to every TB patient under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme in five states, including Maharashtra. We intend to start this regimen for every TB patient from February 10,”  , state tuberculosis officer, had said in January. The drug will be given free to all patients, including those newly diagnosed, at state-run healthcare facilities and designated civic-run TB care centres.
 
 About one-third of the world’s population has latent TB, which means people have been infected by TB bacteria but are not ill with the disease and cannot transmit the disease. People infected with TB bacteria have a 10% lifetime risk of falling ill with TB. However, persons with compromised immune systems, such as people living with HIV, malnutrition or diabetes, or people who use tobacco, have a much higher risk of falling ill.
 
