Digha: The   government won’t allow hoteliers in   to hike tariff during peak season. At the administrative meeting of East Minapore held at Digha on Wednesday, the CM said: “We won’t tolerate hoteliers to revise room rates when there is rush to the seaside.” She asked the police to hold a meeting with the hotel association and set up a coordination committee.

 “There is a law. You can’t revise rates arbitrarily. Hotels offer packages to tourists during the off season. People are your customers. You can’t kill the goose that lays golden eggs,” Mamata told hoteliers.
 
 She cautioned the police about road encroachment by hawkers. “A lot of money has been spent towards beautification of the beach area. I ask the police to set up CCTV cameras and watch towers to beef up vigilance in the area.” Banerjee also brought up the subject of syndicates and extortion bids, days after   and Trinamool MP Sugato Bose expressed concern over the fledgling syndicate raj in the state.
 
 Three government agencies — irrigation, public works and Digha Sankarpur Development Authority ( ) — came under fire from the CM for the delay in construction of three crucial bridges along the marine beach walk. 
 
 Turning to DSDA chairman and Contai Trinamool MP  , the CM asked: “Why should the construction of the bridges have to wait for two years? You must sort out the differences between the agencies. I want them in place within a year.” 
 
 Adhikary argued that the irrigation department had initially agreed to take up the work, but couldn’t proceed because of paucity of funds. Later, the PWD took it up.
 
 PWD secretary Indevar Pandey told the CM that his department received two files only six months ago. The other file was still with the DSDA because it hadn’t yet finalized the alignment. Pandey maintained the construction of the bridges will take at least two years. 
 
 But the CM didn’t entertain the plea, saying: “I want them done within a year. Explore technology and put the infrastructure in place. The project delay is leading to overshooting of costs.”
 
