HYDERABAD: For reasons best known to the authorities, separate hostels were maintained for Hindu and Muslim students of   in the initial years of its formation. City historians, however, maintain that the   had created separate accommodation for Hindus and Muslims purely on dietary grounds.

 The hostel of old Darul-Uloom was earmarked as the hostel for Muslim students. There were 52 students in the hostel.The Darul-Uloom was in fact one of the oldest modern educational institutions of Hyderabad. It was set up in 1865. It was the predecessor of the   and later City Col lege. Hindu boys were given a separate hostel. There were 25 Hindu boys, who had sought hostel accommodation.
 
 In fact, the university authorities had to refuse admission to many students for want of hostel accommodation in the very first year of its ope ning. “While the needs of the Musalman boys have to this extent been satisfied, those of the Hindu boys also have received every attention... There is demand for more accommodation... It is regretfully noted that for want of accommodation a good many applications for admission have had to be rejected,“ reveals a document of Osmania University submitted to the Nizam in 1923. The document pertained to the period October 7, 1919-October 5, 1920.
 
 It is interesting to note that the hostels for Hindu and Muslim boys had what was called “debating societies“. The debating societies were tasked with holding discussions on important issues. The aim was to improve the spoken English. The boarders were placed under the supervision of a resident superintendent, whose duty was to look after students' board and lodging. He was also tasked with maintaining discipline in the hostel and on the campus.
 
 The university had a literary union open to all college stu dents. Its “distinctive feature was the promotion of the study of English literature and encouragement of the art of written and oral expression in that language,“ points out the OU document. In the first year of its birth the university had two faculties ­ arts and theology . The Arts faculty had two professors and 17 assistant professors while the faculty of theology had eight assistant professors.
 
 There were 10 students in Sanskrit, nine students in  , nine students in Kanarese, 16 students in Marathi, 101 students in Urdu, 86 in Persian, and 14 in Arabic. Economics appeared to be the favourite subject with 120 students in first and second year courses.
 
