RAJKOT: Bowling the first Super Over of his life while defending just 11 runs for the   against the   in a humdinger between the two teams at the   on Saturday,   couldn't have hoped for a worse start. It was the perfect yorker-the 'go to' ball for this seamer who just doesn't bend his arm while delivering the ball while completing his unique action, which beat  , but it turned out to be a no ball. The 23-year-old compensated for his mistake with another perfect yorker which went for a leg bye, but erred again by bowling a wide outside off stump to Brendon McCullum.

 Not many would bet against batsmen like Finch and McCullum not being able to get the remaining eight runs off five balls, but all the youngster gave away was: 0,1,0,1,1. Bumrah had done the impossible, clinching a thrilling win for MI from the jaws of defeat. Bumrah, who is making a name for himself while bowling at death, confessed that he fine-tunes his yorkers during "specific death bowling sessions."
 
 "I don't practise like Malinga (keeping a shoe which the Lankan ace then tries to hit with his toecrushers'). I practise with him on how to bowl the yorker consistently, but I always have a death bowling session whenever I practise as it's important, because this is the time I bowl for Gujarat in domestic matches, for India and for MI. So constantly whenever I practise, I've a proper death bowling session," he explained.
 
 "Bumrah bowled a very good over. With that reverse swing and accuracy, you can't do much," complimented Gujarat skipper  . "If any batsman was there, it would've been tough for him to hit a six or a boundary off his yorker. If you would've noticed, his slower ball was also a yorker. It was a perfect over for MI. He bowled very well," praised Lions 'keeper-bat Ishan Kishan, who had sizzled in the game earlier with a 35-ball 48.
 
 By nominating him for the most important six balls of the match, one thing is now clear. It's Bumrah who's the strike bowler for MI now, and not Lasith Malinga, who's done the job admirably for the past nine seasons. Positive thinking, Bumrah felt, was the key for him during the highpressure situation. "This was the first time I was bowling a Super Over. There's always pressure because they needed only 11runs. However, at that time, I tried to keep a calm head, not focus on the negative things, but positive aspects, thinking about the plans I made," the young pacer, who ironically plays for Gujarat in the Ranji Trophy, said.
 
 It helped that he received little, but right instructions from coach Mahela Jayawardene, Rohit, and bowling coach, former New Zealand pacer Shane Bond. "They just told me 'back your skills. Be confident. This is just another over. Don't take extra pressure on yourself. You know this is a Super Over and you have to deliver. Be confident, be calm and try to execute your plans," he revealed.
 
 Going into the Champions Trophy, Bumrah's superb form augurs well for the Indian team if and when they encounter tight situations.
 
