MYSURU:   shifted their focus to   a day before campaigning for the   end on Friday . While   held a roadshow in the temple town and attended  , state BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa toured villages and attended a party rally.

 They are expected to stay put in Mysuru till the polling ends on Sunday . Although the model code is in force in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, these politicians can stay in the city and in resorts in H D Kote bordering Gundlupet. Siddaramaiah, who launched the poll campaign in Nanjangud on March 12, had not held a roadshow or rallies in the temple town. With campaigning coming to an end at 5pm on Friday, the CM and KPCC chief G Parameshwara held a roadshow in the town, seeking support for party candidate Kalale Keshavamurthy .
 
 Addressing party workers at the Congress campaign office, the CM said, “Yeddyurappa's power hunger has in creased ahead of the polling but he will be disappointed as people won't support a jailed leader. In his 35 years of public life, Yeddyurappa has merely extended assurances to people.The bypolls results will bust his Mission 150.“
 
 On Yeddyurappa's allegations that he indulged in poll malpractices, Siddaramaiah said, “When he was in power, he conducted Operation Lotus, pushing the state to eight bypolls. On each of these bypolls, the BJP spent Rs 25 crore.“
 
 Yeddyurappa, meanwhile, continued his tirade against the CM and asked him to reveal the source of money he was spending in the bypolls. “He is spending crores on both the segments. He should explain where he is getting the money from?“ said Yeddyurappa. He asked party workers at a rally to be on guard and look for Congress workers distributing money ,“ he said.
 
 Former Union minister and BJP leader S M Krishna was scheduled to attend the BJP rally but couldn't.
 
 
 
 
 Education minister Basavaraj Rayareddy said that he felt sorry for S M Krishna joining the BJP at his age. Speaking at a press meet in Mysuru on Thursday, Rayareddy said when Krishna was external affairs minister, he had read out the speech of Portuguese foreign minister at the UNSC. “The same Narendra Modi and BJP leaders before whom he joined the party had taken a gibe at him over his age and health.But Krishna has forgotten all that,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 BJP state chief BS Yeddyurappa on Thursday saying he would get CM Siddaramaiah to waive off farm loans. “I'll see how Siddaramaiah will not waive off farm loans. He has said he will not do it. I'm telling you I will get it waived off by Siddaramaiah, he said. The CM, meanwhile, said the loan should be waived off by the Centre and not the state.
 
