HYDERABAD: Come 2018 and Hyderabad's landscape will witness a mushrooming of at least a dozen new malls, offering the cinema-entertainmentshopping experience to visitors. Their primary destination will be in and around the city's upscale IT hub.

 But while that might be good news for shopaholics and movie buffs, industry insiders aren't upbeat about the future of these commercial-cum-retail spaces, which are set to flood Hyderabad. And reasons range from overcrowding to unsustainable designs to even insufficient parking space.
 
 “Even among existing malls, all but the big three, Inorbit,   and GVK One, are struggling to stay afloat. Businesses have dropped by over 50% with many even contemplating a change in usage,“ said a source from within the property market. Case in point:   in   that has now been turned into a hospital.
 
 “We leased the mall to a hospital as promoters felt change of building use was the need of the hour considering stiff competition from malls in the vicinity with a repetition of brands,“ said Shailender Singh, managing partner of Goodwill Coordinators. He explained how limited availability of brands in India, unlike in the West, works as a deterrent for malls hoping to coexist within a range of a few km.
 
 Perhaps that explains why retailers are worried about developers heading towards the IT corridor to set up shop. Citing a few mid-sized malls along the stretch that have been overshadowed after the entry of Prestige's Sujana Forum Mall in Kukatpally, one among them said: “It makes little business sense to focus on one area alone. Especially when there is a mammoth establishment already existing there.“ Sandip Patnaik, mana ging director of Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL, Hyderabad), agrees and suggests that builders look at micro-markets in other parts of Hyde rabad. “What the city needs is smaller malls of 2-3 lakh square feet spread in areas like L B Nagar, Dilsukhnagar and Attapur. We must realise these markets too have great potential to make small format malls a success,“ he said admitting to the mall business being a “risky proposition“.
 
 Among few local players who have adopted this concept is  . With an intelligent choice of economy brands, enough parking space and location, the firm has managed to garner impressive footfalls of 15,000 to 30,000 at its Attapur mall. “Our target audience is the middle class, who had to previously travel all the way to City Centre to get the mall experience,“ said  , director of the company that has two more such projects of 3 lakh sft and 2.2 lakh sft in the offing.
 
 But despite being bang in the middle of hi-tech Hyderabad -already swarming with competition - the promoters of City Capital in Kondapur are certain of a profitable run. “Our facility will be expansive and the design appropriate to pull crowds. We have already leased out more the 80% leasable space,“ said Syed Mohammed Aslam, one of the promoters of the upcoming 1.9 million sft (approx) mall. Also associated with the   in Banjara Hills ­ one the oldest in the city ­ Aslam said it was “struggling a little bit because of no theatre option“. “But it's not so bad either,“ he said.
 
