NEW DELHI: At least 800 Indian companies and groups have signed up for trade and business deals with almost 250 Afghan businesses as an Afghan trade and investment show opens here tomorrow, to be inaugurated by Afghan CEO   and finance minister  . 

 The ‘trilateral’ event is sponsored by the US, and hosted by India.
 
 While there have been other Afghan trade shows earlier, a senior US administration official said this time the aim is to broad base it to include mainly private sector players, particularly social entrepreneurs. “There has been a natural trade relationship between   and India since the days of the Silk Road. This is an opportunity to help the Afghan private sector grow up a little bit. We have some government participation, but the real focus is private sector to private sector.” More than deals, the US official said, this time they would be looking to build relationships between Indian and Afghan companies.
 
 Six months in the making, the trade show may become an annual affair, the next one being planned in Mumbai next year, and Bangalore and Chennai. 
 “This was one of the deliverables of the Heart of Asia summit,” officials said. There have been seven such shows held previously, but this time participation has been greater.
 
 Some of the interest has been spurred by the relative success of the   air corridor agreement. This has resulted in 20 flights between Afghanistan and India, and begun the process of getting Afghan agriculture produce, fruits, saffron, and other perishable items to India where they find a ready market. US officials said they have been involved in matchmaking between companies, with the help of industry bodies like FICCI. They hope this show would be a “catalyst” for the Global   Summit scheduled to be held in Hyderabad in November. It is clear the Afghan private sector would need some handholding by India and US. That is part of the general “ask” of India — to invest in Afghanistan, rebuild some of its infrastructure and help grow Afghan economy by giving a leg-up to Afghan businesses.
 
 Unspoken but omnipresent is the security question — this is something that will have to be addressed by the Afghan government with expertise from the US. Indian companies may defy geography to invest in Afghanistan, but they would be asking for some security.
 
 
