KOLKATA: A fortnight before the CBI submits its preliminary inquiry report in the Narada sting operation, the central investigating agency focuses more on 50 hours of unpublished footage. The role of a   Congress leader, already in custody in a separate case, is also one of the focal points of the probe.

 On Thursday, the CBI officers in Delhi quizzed the prime witness in the case -Narada News boss   -for five hours. Samuel, who had already replied to a set of questions e-mailed by the agency, was put to a complex process of corroboration of facts with video footage.
 
 According to sources, two officers started interrogating Samuel after he reached the agency's Lodhi Road office in Delhi around 12 noon. Unlike the earlier set of questions that focused more on the published Narada tapes, CBI officers on Thursday started with a Trinamool leader who was reportedly named in the tape several times but not seen once. During the sting operation, Samuel had reportedly met MLA and deputy mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation Iqbal  . CBI officers shot array of questions to Samuel trying to figure out the veracity of the conversation. They also tried to find out more about the persons named in the conversation with Ahmed.
 
 In one of the conversations, not yet published by Samuel, the   boss is seen handing over Rs 5 lakh to a Trinamool MLA. The leader seen in the tape was supposed to pay the amount to another leader now in custody. The CBI officers first noted down the time of the meeting after speaking to Samuel and then crosschecked that with the footage.
 
 CBI also tried to find out who accompanied Samuel and introduced him to a former MLA seen accepting cash in the edited tapes. According to sources, Samuel pointed at one “Tiger“, who was present with him at the MLA 's residence.
 
 Looking into the aspect of any possible misuse of official position by the accused, CBI also questioned Samuel about the venue of each meeting. In one of the footage, a senior Trinamool leader was seen taking cash sitting on a chair. Samuel has reportedly told the officers that the leader was in his office then. Samuel was also asked to provide details of his bank accounts and money transferred to him by Tehelka that commissioned the sting operation.
 
 Samuel later told reporters that CBI asked about the planning of the sting, circumstances in which money was purportedly given, location of exchange among other details. He also said he was allowed only one break during the five-hour interaction.
 
 (With inputs from New Delhi)
 
