 is finally waking up to the conversation on heinous crimes of sexual assault against women. Amitabh   in Star Plus’s latest campaign on ‘Victim Shaming’ urges families, authority figures and citizens to reflect upon the need to break the tolerance towards how survivors of sexual assault are treated. Society has failed these survivors by stripping them off their dignity through incessant interrogation about the horrific incident by authority figures and merciless character assassination, shaming her instead of the perpetrators. In a Public Service Awareness Initiative by Star Plus, Bachchan questions these culprits of character assassination with one pertinent question: Whose fault is it? The campaign advocates the thought that society needs to place the guilt rightfully on the perpetrators by putting them on trial instead of shaming the survivors.

 Bachchan says, “The idea that a woman loses her dignity if she is sexually assaulted is instilled strongly in our cultural mindset. The shame should be on the perpetrators instead of the survivor. We need to foster a safe, secure and supportive environment where survivors can seek refuge, especially from those who they turn to for protection like authority figures, family and society. There is a strong need to step forward and talk about this through stories which can trigger this change in the mindset of the people. ' ' is an effort by Star Plus in the same direction.”
 
 A lighthouse brand, Star Plus has always endeavoured to tell stories, which inspire change keeping the progress of the women at the heart of every initiative. Talking about this special initiative, Narayan Sundararaman, General Manager of the channel, says “Kya Qusoor Hai   Ka' is a story about the indomitable spirit, courage and unimaginable strength of one woman’s quest for justice against all odds. The story is not just about Amla but representative of every woman who lives in fear, measuring her every move to keep herself safe thereby giving power to the perpetrator to dictate her life on his terms. Amla’s uphill battle to conquer these demons of society and her refusal to back down in the face of all hurdles will make viewers pause, reflect and think 'Kya Qusoor Hai Amla Ka'? Through this story on Star Plus Dopahar, our intent is to sensitise audiences and society at large, to the trauma of the survivors of sexual assault. Television has the power to spark meaningful change and as a channel, we want Amla’s inspiring story to reach maximum people through our platform. We have tied up with an NGO, Jan Sahas Social Development Society, which is an organisation providing support to survivors of sexual assault since 2000. They can reach out for aid via a toll-free helpline which is 180030002852.”
 
 A first on television, Star Plus is telecasting the brave story 'Kya Qusoor Hai Amla Ka'? as part of its afternoon programming line-up at 12.30 pm. The show is an official adaptation of the acclaimed   Turkish series 'Fatmagul', which has been remade with an Indian cultural backdrop. The show portrays Amla as a woman of substance and a survivor who has the conviction to fight for justice, conquering the demons in people’s minds, and reinforcing through her story that the shame should rightfully be placed with the perpetrator and not the survivor of sexual assault.
 
  
  
 
 
