MUMBAI: Following the death of a former bank employee, her family moved the Bombay   to seek a reimbursement of Rs 6 lakh for   they had   two years ago. The   expired on March 31, 2017.

 The court, after first trying to see if the medicines could be given to needy patients, has asked the State Bank of India ( ), which earlier spent several lakhs on the employees’ treatment, to respond, on affidavit, to the reimbursement claim.
 
 The bank is opposing the reimbursement as it said that the request was made close to the expiry date of the drugs and also because when they were imported, they were not being prescribed in the Indian market.
 
 The drugs which was imported in 18 vials, as a last resort in May 2015, were never administered to the patient who died in June, 2015. The high court had on February 14, issued notice to SBI after hearing senior counsel S G Aney for petitioner, Nagesh Marathe. In March, the high court bench not wanting the drugs to get wasted, had requested the state government pleader Abhinandan Vagyani to check whether the drug TDM-1 Kadcyal could be used for needy patients in any hospital.
 
 The state, on March 30, informed the court of its inability to use the drugs, after checking with 12 hospitals both government and private including Tata Memorial. It would take at least five to seven days before the medicines could be prescribed said the pleader who also said the medicines had only recently entered the Indian market. The government expressed its inability, “for various reasons, including no effective measures available to deal with the side effects of such drugs apart from the fact that that the expiry date is March 31,” observed the HC in its order. The state also said that, “there is no existing protocol for the management of the adverse reaction of such drug.” The HC found force in the state’s contention. One of the pleas made by Marathe was that the drugs be given to the needy. The HC said no orders could now be passed on this plea.
 
 The court has sought a reply from the SBI on the issue of reimbursement of the cost incurred by the family member of the deceased employee. On April 17, both sides by consent agreed that the hearing be adjourned to May 3 when the matter will now be heard.
 
 The Bank employee who worked at a Pune branch of SBI since 1983 had expired in 2015 following a brave two-year-struggle with cancer. Her kin has sought a reiumbursement of Rs 6.3 lakh which includes consultation fees, imported medicines and tests.
 
 
