Nagpur: The city police on Thursday issued a three-page letter to Vidarbha Cricket Association asking it to show its preparedness and compliance from “competent authorities” on 22 sticky points. However, the letter doesn’t say in clear terms if permission has been granted or denied. VCA is set to host India’s fifth ODI against Australia at the Jamtha Stadium on Sunday. VCA office-bearers do not talk to TOI. But insiders claimed the association “is ready with all the documents and that the match will go on as scheduled”. The VCA is banking on the premise that once the chief minister of the host state gives the go-ahead to the BCCI, “it is the job of the police to provide security”.  As per procedure, the cricket Board writes to the CMs when the schedule is drawn. “The VCA has promised to comply with all issues pertaining to the legal requirements required for the conduct of the match. If the association falters on any of the 22 points, action will be taken on its officials depending on the seriousness of the violation,” city police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI, adding that the police “are in constant dialogue with association officials”. CP added that police is going to focus on security, traffic arrangement and crowd management. To provide security for an ODI match, the police charge more than Rs40 lakh which has to be paid after the match. Payment of pending dues is one of the points mentioned in the letter. It would appear the police have gone soft after taking up a strong stance when they booked all VCA officials after the India vs England T20 match on January 29. VCA office bearers were charged with violation of Environment Protection Act 1986 and Noise Pollution (regular and control rules 2000), and not complying with official order thereby endangering lives of people and their properties. The matter was heard in high court in February and March after the VCA officials approached it for quashing the FIR. The association officials alleged they were booked only because they had failed to provide VIP passes as demanded by some police officials. In response, the police defended their action and produced records claiming the VCA did not meet the required standards for operations. The police also registered a third offence of forgery and cheating. Truce was called after the advocate general, who was asked to give his opinion by the high court judges, ruled there was no substance in police allegations. The court also warned both parties that if there was no consensus, it would order a CBI inquiry “which will open a pandora’s box”. Meanwhile, VCA had started selling tickets for the match online from September 24 even though it did not have the required permission from the district administration and zilla parishad for it. This was largely due to the administration being unaware on who would collect the entertainment tax. Earlier, as per rules, the VCA would apply to the administration. After seeking NOC from police and fire departments, the administration used to recover the entertainment duty of 15% from VCA. Then the district administration would seek state government’s approval. Government would issue a notification giving permission for sale of tickets. Finally, the administration would give permission for sale and issue performance licence for holding a match. The VCA submitted an application with the administration a month ago. It was forwarded to the zilla parishad office as the administration said now it was no longer the authority after GST implementation. A confused ZP office then sought an opinion from the GST department. Collector Sachin Kurwe said VCA could go ahead with sale of tickets and also conduct of the match. “As per amended norms in December 2015, the VCA does not need a performance licence. VCA started sale of tickets after giving an undertaking it was ready to pay whatever fees demanded by the government. It also assured inclusion of GST in the tickets,” he said. However, in October 2013, the then collector Saurabh Rao had not given permission to VCA for sale of tickets for an India vs Australia match before receiving an NOC from the fire department. The VCA had to cancel sale of tickets at counters and banks. It sold tickets online only after getting permission from the district administration and after the government issued the notification.