KOLKATA: The bovine brigade in Bengal has been among the first to get UID numbers, long before Modi government mooted the proposal of Aadhaar card for cows. The state has been carrying out a cow census through the Paschim   (PBGSBS) and providing identification numbers to each cow since 2014.

 Animal resources department minister   on Wednesday said in the assembly, “We have been undertaking   (Cow census) since 2014. Not only that, we have also started identifying each cow through a unique number.“ Earlier, Congress MLA Abu Taher asked whether the state government has received any notification on the Aadhaar number of cows.
 
 Debnath in his reply said he had not got any such notification, but “so far, we have tagged 31,08,509 cows.“ Paschim Banga Go-Sampad Sanstha has been carrying out cow census in the state every five years. According to the 2012 cow census, there are 16.5 million cows in Bengal. This year, a census will begin shortly.
 
 Last month, chief minister   mocked at the Modi government's move to introduce  . “Just see... Now cows need Aadhar cards. Then what cards will be needed for children who need cow's milk?“ she said. But significantly , the state's cow identification process has an uncanny resemblance with the Centre's programme. As per the idea, every single cow and buffalo in the country and their family members will get a polyurethane tag containing a 12-digit unique identification number in the ear -all 88 million of them. The unique ID will contain details of the cattle's age, breed, sex, height, body colour, horn type, tail switch and special marks, according to the panel set up by the home ministry . In case of milch cattle, it will also have the lactation profile.
 
 The ambitious project will be concluded by the end of this year and will cost Rs 148 crore.
 
 Debnath told TOI on Wednesday , “Our agenda is not discrimination.Our focus is on the huge vista of hope and aspiration to enhance milk production in our state with the mission to improve the qualitative and quantitative breed of bovine population. PBGSBS has the vision to reach the doorstep of each farmer with best of the breeding inputs available, at the lowest cost and to improve the existing technology of breeding through extensive research and development in the fields of artificial insemination (AI) with strict quality control.“
 
