NEW DELHI: Delhi University's   witnessed a string of violent clashes on Wednesday between two groups after   students, supported by members of left outfits, called for a protest march against   Students' Union (Dusu) and   (ABVP) for allegedly disrupting a seminar titled "Cultures of Protest".

 However, the march never took place because of the clashes on Wednesday. At least 30 people, including a professor and 10 policemen, were injured. Eighty students were detained briefly. An FIR was registered against unknown persons on the basis of complaint from both sides.
 
 Journalists covering Wednesday's clashes outside Ramjas College were slapped, punched and kicked by about a dozen policemen, all without nameplates.
 
 TOI correspondent Sompreet Bhattacharya and photographer Anindya Chattopadhyay, Times Now reporter Priyank and cameraman Mazhar Khan and several other journalists were beaten up by these policemen who also snatched their phones and cameras and deleted photos and videos. A TOI intern shooting a video was also thrashed.
 
 
 
 
 The area where violent clashes between students took place on Wednesday comes under S B K Singh, special commissioner (law and order), North Zone, who was not on the spot when the incident — an alarming rerun of the assault of over a dozen journalists by the police in Februrary 2016 — took place.
 
 The drama started around 1pm when students gathered in and around the college. Anticipating an ugly situation, the police didn’t allow the Ramjas students — who assembled near the college canteen — to leave the campus and join members of the All India Students’ Association (AISA) who were waiting outside to join the march.
 
 Several Ramjas students, who were on the campus and supposed to take out the march from there, were stopped by police. They claimed they were beaten up by ABVP members. The ABVP members have denied the allegations.
 
 “Many of us were thrashed while we peacefully protested against what happened yesterday on our campus where an academic activity wasn’t allowed to take place. It was only after 5pm that the police decided to escort us off the campus while the ABVP people stood in front of us hurling abuse and threatening us,” said Simran, a Ramjas student who came out of the college only around 5.30 pm when she was provided “safe passage by the police to go home”. A third-year student added, “While we were standing near the canteen area, four people charged at me. They tore my shirt and threatened me.”
 
 Alleging that ABVP members had entered the campus to threaten Ramjas students, AISA member Kawalpreet Kaur said “female students were thrashed by men from the outfit who beat up a number of students, including one from Delhi School of Economics”. Even teachers alleged they were heckled and abused. “Around 8-10 people beat me up when I went to join the students. They picked me and tried to strangulate me with my muffler,” said Ramjas English professor Prashanto Chakrabarty. The professor was taken to the DU health centre, and then to Hindu Rao Hospital, for treatment.
 
 Rudrashish Chakraborty, a member of the Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), alleged that ABVP members threw chairs at two teachers — Suvitra from Deshbandhu College and Mousumi Bose of Ramjas College. However, the ABVP denied all such claims.
 
 Interestingly, Ramjas Students’ Union president Yogit Rathi also denied the allegations against the ABVP. He said the union had opposed the seminar and that he had personally gone and “asked the principal to not call a person who is an ‘anti-national’.” Ramjas principal Rajendra Prasad told TOI that anticipating trouble he hadn’t agreed to allow the seminar, but a large number of teachers and students had “forced” his hand. He, however, added no written permission was given for the programme.
 
 Rathi was also among the protesters countering a section of Ramjas students who had planned the march. “We did not turn violent. These students started chanting ‘Azaadi’ and ignored the pleas of policemen and started fighting with us.”
 
 The ABVP, too, alleged that AISA members had tried to enter the campus forcibly. Countering the claims of a section of Ramjas students and the left outfits, ABVP said “anti-India” sloganeering would not be tolerated in DU and that it had lodged complaints with the police and the college principal.
 
 ABVP national media convener Saket Bahuguna claimed, “This is what the anti-India communist brigade did yesterday at Ramjas College when their leader, Umar Khalid, was not allowed inside the college yesterday by ABVP, the college students’ union and DUSU. These anti-India communist students and teachers, most of whom were outsiders, raised slogans calling for freedom for Kashmir and Bastar.”
 
 While protests continued on campus, AISA members and a few Ramjas students clashed with ABVP and DUSU members when they tried to enter the campus to begin the march. What followed was an ugly skirmish outside the college which the police was unable to control. The police tried to detain ABVP and DUSU members but failed. The pandemonium continued even as the marchers walked towards Maurice Nagar police station. The clashes continued till Guru Tegh Bahadur Road, at the rear gate of the Arts Faculty, where stones, bottles and eggs were thrown at the marchers who tried to shield their heads using their bags
 
 The two groups reached Maurice Nagar police station where they sat on dharna demanding their complaints be accepted by the police. Both groups alleged they were assaulted by the other. Police detained around 80 students. 
 
 DUTA president Nandita Narian blamed the police for “standing and watching the actions of the violent students who did not even bother about the police presence.”
 
 If they could have detained some of the protesters, the matter could have been easily resolved,“ she said.
 
 While condemning the violence, the president of the right-wing National Democratic Teachers Front, A K Bhagi, said it was “opposed to exploiting freedom of speech and action, or an alternative view, on national issues for promoting anti-national, proPakistan stands.“ NSUI has called for a protest on Thursday at the Arts Faculty .
 
 
 
