KOCHI: The   (KMRL) which invited tenders for auctioning the   has received good response. With more than two weeks left for the deadline to submit tenders for the same, 17  , media, banks, malls and textiles have already quoted for securing the right to name different stations. 

 The KMRL has invited tenders for the securing rights to name Aluva, Kalamassery, Edappally, Kaloor and MG Road stations. According to Metro officials, they expect at least Rs five crore from each station. "As of now, 17 firms have submitted tenders for the same. We expect that more and more firms and groups would come up in the next few days," an official with   said.
 
 At Aluva, the fight is learnt to have to been among banks while a factory group and some other corporates are competing for securing the right to name Kalamassery station after them. In Edappally, the war is between a mall and some corporates. In Kaloor, many brands and a media house compete with each other while MG Road station is in high demand as some textile groups, a media house and other new generation banks run for it.
 
 Those securing the bid will get the right to name the station after them. The name of the station will be known along with the brand's name plus the official name (such as MG Road station). They can use the space in the station excluding the area marked for interior and theme works for displaying their advertisements. The pillars in the nearby areas also can be used by the firm, which wins the bid. Once the deadline for submitting tenders ends, the KMRL will conduct evaluation of tenders. After evaluating tenders, bids will be opened and the highest bidder will be given the right to name each station. All the procedures are expected to be complete by Mid-April.
 
 The KMRL has started tender procedures for allotting additional space in stations and selling the right to display ads on pillars. There would be around 700 pillars available for displaying ads. Every sixth pillar would be used for setting up floating garden.
 
