MUMBAI: In a desperate move to woo voters ahead of BMC polls and to cut the   to size, Shiv   president   Thackeray has announced property tax exemption for Mumbaikars. The scheme is to be implemented in the next five years—if Sena returns to power in the Mumbai municipal body, that is. Not to be outdone, the BJP has come up with the idea of scrapping street tax till the BMC gives the city good roads.

 This competition to offer   to Mumbaikars may cast a shadow on Sena-BJP talks for an alliance for the polls to be held on February 21.
 
 Houses admeasuring 500 sq ft or less (carpet area) will be free of property tax, Uddhav said at a presser on Thursday. Houses admeasuring between 500 and 700 sq ft will get concessions in property tax, he said.
 
 Uddhav’s announcement took BJP by surprise. Ashish Shelar, Mumbai BJP chief, said, “BJP doesn’t believe in tax terrorism...With an annual budget of Rs 37,000 crore, citizens are not given good amenities. There should be no street tax till the BMC is able to provide good roads to citizens... This will be included in our party manifesto.”
 
 Annual property tax is 15% of rateable value of a property, while street tax is included in the overall property tax figure.
 
 Asked about Thackeray’s scheme, Shelar claimed he was the first to make a similar suggestion in one of his speeches in the legislative assembly. “The CM had responded favourably to my suggestion,” the BJP legislator from Bandra stated.
 
 Meanwhile, with the Centre all set to replace octroi, the principal source of the corporation’s annual revenue, with GST, Thackeray’s sop is likely to put a heavy burden on the BMC exchequer, observers said. The Sena is vehemently opposed to GST.
 
 Asked about the financial feasibility of the scheme, Thackeray said, “We have given a thought to every aspect of the scheme, including the resources needed to implement it.” He chided a questioner for being too concerned about the scheme’s financial angle. “You need not worry...It’s our responsibility,” he said.
 
 Thackeray also announced a scheme--named after the late Balasaheb Thackeray--to provide free medical help to the poor.
 
 Thackeray repeatedly stated that the two schemes were not mere poll sops. “Please don't link them with the BMC elections...This is a small token of gratitude from Sena to the people of Mumbai whose blessings have always been with us,” he declared.
 
 Rhetoric apart, Thackeray’s schemes are aimed at, first, wooing Mumbai voters and, second, clipping the wings of the BJP which, said analysts, has been playing tough with Sena over sharing of wards.
 
 That Thackeray should announce the property tax exemption and the urban health scheme even before releasing the Sena manifesto is an indication that Matoshree is desperate to stymie BJP’s plan to contest Sena’s numero uno position in the BMC.
 
 Meanwhile, the saffron alliance’s seat-sharing talks have hit a roadblock as the BJP is stridently adhering to its demand for 114 seats, of the total 227 in the corporation, thus leaving the remainder 113   to the Sena. BJP is furiously pursuing its ‘one-seat-more-than-Sena’ formula, citing the 2014 assembly polls which gave 15 seats to BJP and 14 to Sena.
 
 However, the Sena, which prides itself on its senior position in the city hall, is in no mood to give away 50% seats to BJP. Seat distribution talks will begin after the two parties go through the lists, exchanged during talks on Wednesday, of mutually agreed seats to be jointly contested, sources said.
 
 
