KOCHI: Apprehensions over anomalies in the sanction given to Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) for road cutting works is growing. The corporation had charged only Rs 69 lakh/year for giving sanction to   Ltd for road cutting works across 184km in 2014. Now, when it has almost prepared the new file on an application submitted by RJIL in 2016 for the same purpose, the fee stands at Rs 14 crore for cutting a mere 20km. The said amount includes all charges, including floor rent.

 The civic body was forced to charge a heftier amount as floor rent this time following media reports that alleged that there was corruption in the deal. The huge disparity in previous and current rates attest the fact that there was something shady in the deal with the private telecom service provider, said opposition councillor V P Chandran.
 
 “The local body is maintaining at least five files related to the applications by RJIL and Reliance Communications, the firms owned by Ambani brothers, to dig up roads owned by the local body. Even if we go through the files, we won’t get any clear idea on how many kilometres were dug up by the firms, road restoration fee charged and the floor rent paid by them,” he said.
 
 “Corporation officials said that Ambani brothers had submitted more than a dozen applications seeking road cutting sanction. There is no transparency in the deals with these private telecom firms. So, a vigilance inquiry should be recommended,” he said.
 
 Earlier, the local body had been charging track rent (for laying cable) of Rs 37,500/km from telecom firms, irrespective of the number of cables placed. Now, the standing committee for finance has decided that track rent should be charged for each cable. “The current application by RJIL seeks to dig up 20km roads in the city. The number of cables they want to lay in different roads would vary. On an average, there would be seven cables. The finance standing committee wants to increase the track rent to Rs 50,000/km from Rs 37, 500,” he said.
 
 But the corporation is yet to take a final decision. “The topic of giving road cutting sanction to RJIL had come up for discussions before the steering committee. But some of the members wanted to see the files before taking a decision. They wanted clarity in the deal,” said chairman of works standing committee Harris P M.
 
 It was in November that the file came up for discussions at the steering committee meeting. On why a decision on the issue couldn’t be taken Harris said that the file was yet to come up before the consideration of works standing committee.
 
