BENGALURU: “How can ‘Sabka vikas (inclusive development)’ happen if we ignore dalits, minorities and  ?” asked chief minister   on Tuesday, alluding to the BJP’s famous poll slogan. 

 Responding to allegations made by the BJP members in the assembly about his 2017-18 budget being an attempt to appease the   (Kannada acronym for dalits, minorities and backward classes) vote-bank, the CM said, “Can we neglect these communities? The programmes and policies announced in the budget are aimed at improving the lives of the economically oppressed sections of the society. My budget truly reflects the sentiment of ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas’.”
 
 Refuting claims of the budget being flawed, Siddaramaiah said, “We’re not embarrassed to say we are for Ahinda. But that doesn’t mean we have forgotten the other communities. We have launched several programmes that will benefit the impoverished members of all communities.” He pointed out that the rise in the monthly rice installment (from 5 to 7kg) under the Anna Bhagya scheme was benefitting 1.8 crore people cutting across caste and religion.
 
 However, he refused to yield to the BJP’s demand for a loan waiver. “Let the Centre waive loans given by commercial banks, and we’ll follow suit by waiving the ones given by cooperative banks,” he said, adding that the then BJP CM BS Yeddyurappa too had refused to waive loans. “He cited shortage of funds and did not announce a loan waiver,” the CM said.
 
 However, the BJP members did not back down. While CT Ravi charged the CM with delivering a ‘market speech’, opposition leader in the assembly Jagadish Shettar alleged that Siddaramaiah was distorting facts. With the BJP members walking out of the house before the Karnataka Appropriation (vote on account) Bill 2017 was passed, Siddaramaiah said, “The BJP is anti-poor, anti-farmer, anti-dalit, anti-minorities and anti-women.”
 
 
 
 
 The CM said that the state was ready for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rollout. “It was the brainchild of the UPA government. We are ready to implement the policy. GST will definitely benefit the state,” he said.
 
 
