NEW DELHI:   CM Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement that AAP will do away with the   collection from residential units and waive dues of all defaulters if it wins the civic elections has not gone down well with former municipal commissioners and ruling party leaders in the  . They claim that the step will weaken the revenue generation mechanism of the municipalities and “effectively paralyse the civic bodies”.

 In 2004, when the unit area method was introduced by the erstwhile MCD, the colonies were divided into different categories from A to H. The base unit area value was fixed depending on their location and the nature of area. For instance, the base unit area value for A-category colonies is Rs 630 (maximum) and while this is Rs 100 (minimum) for H-category ones.
 
 Former municipal commissioner Rakesh Mehta claims if property tax is not collected from residential colonies, the concept of categorisation will become meaningless. In that case, services given to people living in Greater Kailash will be the same as that of Seelampur, he said.
 
 As of now only 30-35% of the entire Delhi’s population is paying property tax while the remaining 65-70% are not in this tax bracket. The property tax is collected from residential, commercial and industrial units as well as mixed land use. The south corporation has 4.75 lakh tax payers among its 11 lakh households. The north civic body has approximately 3.35 lakh property tax payers among 10 lakh properties under its jurisdiction while the east corporation has 2.28 lakh tax payers out of over four lakh property owners.
 
 In 2016-17, the south, north and east corporations collected Rs 775 crore, Rs 435 crore and Rs 128 crore respectively, which is almost 30% of their total revenue. The revenue collected as property tax helps the corporations in providing services to the public. 
 
 “In every country, local bodies collect taxes. This is because the government provides only a portion of the total revenue and the civic bodies have to arrange the rest of the funds themselves. Services like sanitation, primary education and health will be badly affected if property tax is abolished,” said Mehta.
 
 K S Mehra, another ex-commissioner, said the basic logic for civic bodies to have revenue sources is to ensure that they can become self-reliant. “Property tax has always been a major source of revenue and the collection should be increased instead of doing away with it,” he said.
 
 Post trifurcation, a large number of number of A and B category colonies came under the south corporations, while the north had mostly B and C-category colonies and the east corporation was left with a good number of E,F,G and H-class colonies.
 
 “Property tax is a major revenue source. If this step is implemented, alternative measures are required to fill the revenue gap and to ensure that civic bodies don’t get into financial trouble. The south corporation is financially stable because it has seen a huge rise in the property tax collection,” said Radha Krishnan, assessor & collector of SDMC.
 
 Senior officials warn that the cash-strapped north and east civic bodies will face further crisis if the property tax waiver comes into effect. “We are already financially weak and if we stop collecting property tax from residential units, we will never be able to deal with the situation,” said a senior finance official (east corporation).
 
 Senior leaders said that such a move will paralyse the functioning of corporations and they will never be able to become self-reliant. “If civic bodies stop collecting taxes, how are we going to extend services to the public,” asked V P Pandey, leader of the House (north).
 
 
