NEW DELHI: At least eight girls and eight women — mostly trafficked into Delhi — were rescued from GB Road brothels between April and June. However, there are many more — roughly 5,000 — girls and women who go through harrowing experiences every day in dingy rooms of 90-odd brothels operating on Swami Shradhanand Marg, commonly known as GB Road. 

 The data available with   ( ) shows that out of the 16 rescued, four were from Delhi while the rest were trafficked from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajashtan and Maharashtra. 
 
 While rescues and raids have often led to arrests of ‘madams’ and ‘pimps’ running the illegal sex trade in the capital, there has never been any crackdown on the owners of the buildings from where the brothels are run. After deciding to identify these owners last year to crack down on the kingpins, DCW is now all set to step up action from later this month. 
 
 Notices have been sent to 125 people who have been identified by the north corporation, BSES and other agencies from their records as the owners of these buildings or even floors and rooms in several cases. If those served notices don’t turn up before the commission between September 21 and 24, DCW will report them to the police by the month-end. 
 
 DCW chairperson Swati Jaihind said the commission would ask Delhi Police to send legal notices to those failing to appear before the commission. “The details of brothel owners received from various agencies gave different names for same brothels. Summons of the owners who have refused to receive the notices have been pasted outside those brothels. All owners have been asked to come with their identity and address proofs,” Jaihind said. 
 
 Earlier, the commission had formed a committee of senior officials of the north corporation, Delhi Police, Delhi Jal Board, BSES and the fire department, the district magistrate and representatives of prominent NGOs to identify brothel owners. “GB Road has become a hub for human trafficking, especially of minors, from different parts of the country. These girls are kept in extremely inhuman conditions and exploited on a daily basis by the brothel owners. DCW seeks to end prostitution on GB Road as well as rehabilitate these women,” Jaihind said.
 
 Most prostitutes have no other means of livelihood if they give up sex work. “We are working on with the government to draft a long-term rehabilitation plan,” the DCW chairperson said.
 
 DCW has already set up an expert committee on rehabilitation of survivors of trafficking and commercial sexual exploitation. It will have representatives from all stakeholders, including NGOs, the police and the government. The committee will submit its report within two months. 
 
 The committee has been told to draft a state-level policy, develop models for rehabilitation, assess the issues faced by children of the prostitutes at GB Road and prepare an action plan to give life choices to them.
 
 
