By Daphne Clarence
 
 AGRA: With board examinations around the corner, most of the students are battling anxiety and stress to ensure that their performance is at par with their peers. With parents also exerting pressure on them to score above the rest, the stress and anxiety reaches levels that have a debilitating effect. 
 
 Doctors and counsellors claim that the number of students seeking medical aid to beat exam blues are on the rise every year. Vishal Sinha, who works in the department of psychiatry in  , said that students focus more on 'performance rating' than their actual performance in the exams. He added that this causes high levels of stress and anxiety due to which the student may even faint or feel exhausted. "Cases of stress among students during exam time are increasing every year. We handle at least two to three cases everyday," said Sinha.
 
 Puneet Vasisht, principal of G D Goenka school, said, "We had several cases in which the student could not even sit for the examination. We had to give them counselling and even medicines at times to help them become calm."
 
 To help students tackle examination stress,   has released a toll-free helpline number 1800118004. Students can seek assistance on this number between 8 am and 10 pm. "Students face immense pressure from parents to score high marks. Every child's learning capacity is different. Hence, parents should not force students to score maximum marks. Instead, they should focus on discovering the hidden talents of their wards," said Sinha.
 
  Jobson Thomas, a teacher in St. Clare's Sr. Sec. School, said, "Mostly students who are not regular in studies become anxious and tend to forget what they have learnt. They often end up having health problems and get extremely nervous while appearing for the exams." 
 
 Several student counsellors claim that stress among students often arises because of comparison with their peers. "Parents compare their children with others who perform better. This causes anxiety among students," said Renu Makhija, who is working as a counsellor in Dr. MPS World School.
 
 To curb examination stress, Dr. Sinha gives three main tips: "Have a balanced diet, sleep properly and never skip breakfast. Avoid caffeine and eat plenty of fruits which will improve learning capacity."
 
