 Sundar, national spokesperson of the Congress, turned out to be one of the strongest voices supporting the pro-jallikattu demonstrations. While questioning the Centre over the ban on the traditional sport, she also vehemently criticised the police action against the protesters on January 23. In a chat with Saranya Chakrapani, she talks about her party’s differing stands on   and why the time is right for the   to make its presence felt in Tamil Nadu 

 You have been a strong supporter of the jallikattu protests. Do you think they ended in an anti-climax?
 
 What happened one morning after days of peaceful and extremely organised protests cannot take the spotlight away from the message of unity and strength they conveyed. We lauded the police for the support they extended to the protesters, but they still haven’t told us what prompted them to use force against peaceful protestors. I believe that the students could not have indulged in violence and set fire to the police station without being provoked. If they wanted to turn violent, they could have done it the very first day.
 
 In 2011, it was the ministry of environment and forests, headed by Jairam Ramesh that removed bulls from the list of performing animals. However, now the party has turned around to declare its support for jallikattu. Where is this coming from?
 
 The Congress, particularly in Tamil Nadu, has never been for the ban on jallikattu. Even in 2016, when there was a fake manifesto doing the rounds, we sent out the right one supporting it and Mr C R Kesavan went on record to clarify that.
 
 Yes, it’s true that there are sections in the party that believe in banning jallikattu. It’s also true that I don’t agree with what Mr. Jairam Ramesh did. But dissent is common within any party. While Maneka Gandhi of the BJP takes a stand against jallikattu, Pon Radhakrishnan of the same party vows to resign if the sport is banned.
 
 The Congress is a highly democratic party and gives everyone the freedom to voice their differences. These are always discussed.
 
 What is the potential for the Congress in Tamil Nadu?
 
 We have a huge vacuum here now. And this is the time for us to work hard and make our presence felt. We are the third largest party here, although we have only eight seats in the assembly. We are looking at the 2019 elections, but prior to that we have the local body elections to focus on.
 
 Yes, we have gone wrong; we’ve not been in power for 48 years. But then, some of the best schemes in Tamil Nadu were brought in by Kamaraj. We need to win the hearts of the people and make them understand that we have always stood by them.
 
 Where do you sense the vacuum now?
 
 Jayalalithaa was not an ordinary leader; she was a tall leader and an iconic person. People understood her and loved her - for the rights and the wrongs. I am not going to comment on Sasikala, because I don’t think it’s important. But I feel that O Panneerselvam, as chief minister, must come out of the cocoon he’s in, call the shots and not merely be a ‘yes man’ to others. I have high regard for him.
 
 Right now, people are not ready to accept certain things forced upon them. They are the section that is confused and disconnected from Tamil Nadu’s politics. And this is the section we need to win over.
 
 You are contesting for the Producer’s Council. What are the challenges you would like to address?
 
 There is some criticism about actors contesting for the Producers’ Council. But when producers come in to act, we never pull them up on the contention that they don’t belong to the Nadigar Sangam and hence they shouldn’t act. When we actors produce films, we go through the right channels, register our titles and abide by the laws of the producers’ council. But when it comes to seat sharing, it instantly becomes a problem. I would like us all to understand that democratically, we need change. And just as in politics, here too anti-incumbency sets in. And then, we know the business; just give us a chance to prove ourselves.
 
 
