NAGPUR: The suicide note left behind by a 15-year-old girl, who hanged herself on Thursday, mentioned that parental pressure drove her to end her life. Her parents were allegedly not happy with her result even though she secured 95% in her standard IX exams. The girl also wrote that her parents were not allowing her to use the cell phone, as they expected her to concentrate only on studies.

 This was the third suicide by a minor in three days, and the second accidental death registered at   police station within a day.
 
 A student of standard X, Devika Yerwar, who wanted to become an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, hanged herself from the ceiling fan with a veil at her place at   in Hudkeshwar on Thursday at around 9:30pm. She ended her life when her younger sister Megha (13) had gone to watch a movie in the theatre along with father Bharat and mother Reena. Devika too had been asked to go along, but she refused, said relatives.
 
 Devika’s cousin Naresh wanted speakers from her, so he reached their place but found the door locked from inside. He knocked on the door several times but didn’t get any response. When he peeped inside from a window, he saw the girl hanging. He informed the police, who reached the spot and broke open the door. Cops recovered the suicide note from the spot.
 
 Naresh said Devika was studying very hard to achieve her dream. However, she had been upset since few days as Bharat, an autorickshaw driver, didn’t keep his promise of taking her for a small trip. Naresh, who works in the   at  , told TOI, “Devika, school topper, had shared her plight with me. She said her father would never be satisfied with her results. She also claimed she couldn’t take it for long and was exhausted.”
 
 However, cops said Devika wrote that her parents told her to leave the house since they were unhappy with her. Bharat said, “On May 1, Devika’s result was announced. I was in Madhya Pradesh. She called me up and demanded some money to distribute sweets in the school. I was very happy and told her to take money from her mother.” I just wanted her to study hard, added Bharat.
 
 Relatives said that apart from being good at studies, Devika was good at painting too.
 
