

 Enough has already been said and written about  , who brought the Ironman's race to everyone's attention in India when he completed this athletic challenge in 15 hours and 19 minutes, two years ago. Since then, a lot of people in the country have made attempts to complete the Ironman Triathlon which includes 3.8 km swim, 180 km bike and 42.2 km run, all to be finished within 17 hours.
 
 Adding to the list of the people who successfully completed the race is Jaipur's businessman, Narendra Singh Kharra. He participated in the Ironman Triathlon held in Texas and completed it in 15 hours and 51 minutes on April 22. Co-owner of an IT company in Jaipur and the United States, Narendra told us that he got to know about the race after he read about Milind in news. He then decided to participate in it. He said, “The first time I learned about this triathlon was when I read the news of Milind Soman completing the race in 2015. Before Milind's achievement, people in India were not aware of the Ironman Triathlon race.“ He added, “I wanted to represent Jaipur and India on an international level and thought this could help me to achieve my dream.“
 
 Narendra said, “I started preparing for the race a year before it was due to be organized in Texas. I participated in domestic triathlons held in Goa, Delhi and Jaipur to improve my timing before registering for the Ironman Triathlon. I was the only Indian this year to have participated in this race.“
 
 Talking about the race, he said, “Combining three different disciplines ­ swimming, running and cycling ­ is not a piece of cake. The race was difficult but I believe that self-motivation is the key . Those four words over the microphone at the finish line ­ you are an ironman ­ makes it all worth it.“
 
 It was an emotional moment for Narendra when he completed the race.He said, “Near the finish line, two of my friends were waving the Indian flag frantically . I grabbed the flag and gave them all a hug. It was an emotional moment.“
 
 When asked about his next plan, Narendra said, “I am looking forward to participate in the Ultraman race now. I want to inspire more and more Indians to participate in these races. I have already inspired my wife, who will be registering for Ironman Triathlon next year.“
 
 
