JALANDHAR: After Banga, Congress is now facing   at three seats in Doaba region. On Wednesday, former MLA Gurbinder Singh Atwal and former mayor Surinder Mahey filed their nominations as independent candidates from Nakodar and Jalandhar (West) assembly constituencies respectively. 

 The party is already facing a rebel in sitting MLA Tarlochan Soondh from Banga. He filed his papers as an independent from Banga on Tuesday, after Congress fielded Satnam Kainth. 
 
 Atwal rebelled after Congress made him party candidate from Bholath constituency and then replaced him when he refused to contest from there. From Nakodar, Congress fielded Jagbir Singh Brar, who was keen on a ticket from Jalandhar Cantonment and even threatened to ensure party candidate Pargat Singh’s defeat from there. On Wednesday, he filed his nomination in the company of former minister Amarjit Singh Samra, who represented the seat thrice in the past but withdrew from the fray due to health reasons. 
 
 From Phagwara, former improvement trust chairman and   general secretary Balbir Raja Sodhi, whose wife Rani Sodhi was in the ticket race, had made clear his opposition to party candidate Joginder Singh Mann. “Mann worked against me in 2012 election, when I was party candidate. Till recently, his camp has been openly saying that he would turn a rebel in case he was not given the ticket. Our supporters are very clear that we shall not support him,” Sodhi told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 In Bholath, things turned more embarrassing on Wednesday when quite a few leaders openly announced their intent to support AAP candidate and former Congress MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira after party replaced Atwal with Ranjit Singh Rana. A former Akali, Rana was a close associate of SGPC former chief Bibi Jagir Kaur. Congress leaders, including   secretaries Pritam Singh Sikri, Avtar Singh Walia and Sri Niwas Kuku, gathered at the house of party leader Dr Mehar Singh Ahluwalia along with party workers and announced to support Khaira.
 
 Box
 
  faces same problem
 
 From out of the three seats that BJP is contesting in Hoshiarpur district, party rebels have filed their nominations from two. BJP leaders Raghunath Singh Rana and Jangi Lal Mahajan filed their papers as independent candidates from Dasuya and Mukerian respectively. Hoshiarpur, from where BJP has fielded Tikshan Sud, is the only assembly segment from where the party is not facing a rebel candidate. But then Sud, too, is not very popular. 
 
 However, the most prominent BJP rebel -- former minister Master Mohan Lal -- has also jumped into the fray as an independent from Pathankot seat after the ticket went to sitting MLA and his once protégé Ashwani Sharma.
 
 
