HYDERABAD: A day after arrest, Bollywood producer Karim Morani, accused of sexually exploiting a 24-year-old Mumbai-based theatre artiste in Hyderabad, underwent a potency test. On Sunday , Rachakonda police of Hyderabad took the 58-year-old producer into custody for interrogation.The rape survivor was his daughter's friend.

 On September 22, Morani surrendered before   police. The next day , police subjected the Bollywood producer to a potency test at Osmania  , before producing him before a local court, which sent him to judicial remand. On a petition filed by police, the court granted police a five-day custody . Morani was taken into the custody on Sunday for questioning.
 
 “Our aim is to elicit more information from accused about the rape case. We already have evidence against him,“ a Rachakonda police officer said.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by 24-year-old victim, police registered a case (crime number 332017) against Morani under Sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful restraint), 417 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation), 493 (cohabitation caused by a man deceitfully inducing a belief of lawful mar riage) and 354-C (voyeurism) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Subsequently , Morani obtained anticipatory bail from local court in Hyderabad on January 30. Hayatnagar police then filed a petition before court, seeking cancellation of the bail alleging Morani had suppressed his alleged role in the 2G scam while seeking bail from the trial court.
 
 In March, local court cancelled his bail, asking him to surrender before police on or before March 22.
 
 Morani then approached High Court. On September 16, the High Court upheld the action of the trial court asking Morani to surrender before police by September 22. Morani then went to the Supreme Court and the apex court also upheld the High Court's order on September 22. In her complaint, the victim alleged that Morani had raped her twice in September and October, 2015 at a film studio in the city as well as several times in Mumbai besides recording videos of the assault to blackmail her.
 
 During the eight-month in vestigation, police had secured Airtel and   cell phone call data records of Morani and the victim, which according to police clearly indicate the presence of the two at the film studio in September and October 2015. “Karim Morani was at a star hotel in the film studio for `Dilwale' movie shoot and the victim alleged to have met him at the hotel,“ an investigating official said.
 
 Cops also gathered details of the victim's flight tickets from Mumbai to Hyderabad, which were booked by a film production and distribution firm Morani was associated with at that time. They also recorded the statements of drivers, who were part of the film crew. Two of them confirmed that they had picked up the victim from the   and brought her to the film studio on Morani's instructions. Police also gathered the stay booking, food orders and even laundry bill particulars of Morani's room to corroborate the presence of the victim at the hotel at that time. So far, cops could not gather any photos or videos related to the sexual abuse from the possession of the accused.
 
 “Court has granted us fiveday custody of Karim Morani.We have taken him into custody to elicit evidence pertaining to the investigation,“ Hayatnagar inspector   told TOI.
 
