NAGPUR: The perennial question ‘whether to start working or study further’ that engineers face after their under-graduation took centre stage during the panel discussion organized by   (LIT) on Saturday.

 Professors from IITs Madhukar Garg (Bombay), KK Pant (Delhi), Sameer Jadhav (Bombay) and Head of university department of chemcial technology, Amravati University, Vilas Sapkal and vice chancellor, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Techonlogical Univesity, Raigad, Vilas Gaikar were the panellists for discussion on ‘Opportunities in Higher Education’. 
 
 On being asked why students prefer going abroad, Raigad VC Gaikar said, “Our rules, including of AICTE, are very rigid. Our   has degraded and become a farce. Students can even predict the question paper. If we dare to ask a question that needs to be answered on the basis of reasoning, there is a hue and cry over out-of-syllabus.”
 
 The three IIT professors, who are also LIT alumnus, emphazised that master of technology (MTech) and doctorate of philosophy (PhD) should be the priority.
 
 Sharing his experience at IIT, Jadhav said, “IIT students are not keen for MS programmes offered by US because research is on their mind. Make up you mind about want you want to do. At IIT, we are told that a BTech student must think like MTech and an MTech like a PhD. That is career preparation.”
 
 Pant said another new trend in IITs is that students are forming groups in their third-year of engineering and starting their own ventures. 
 
 Garg said, “If you don’t want to go for higher education, then there are two job options: public and private sector. But, for that too, you need to study and clear the entrance test GATE.”
 
 Garg added that MNCs are opening research centres in India not because of cheap labour but because India has sharp minds.
 
 Gaikar said, “Having a masters will give you an edge over others.”
 
 Interjecting with Gaikar, Garg said, “Engineering moves on. Ten years down the line you will remain stuck with stale knowledge. But if you have a MTech, you will know how to keep adapting to new changes. Doing a PhD or master won’t be that easy later in life.”
 
 Retired LIT alumnus also shared their experiences. “The BTech course should be made a five-year course with one year dedicated to research. We always regretted for not having pursued higher education while working in   and ISRO,” they told students.
 
