SEKTA (IMPHAL EAST):   is peeling pomegranate when we arrive. Even in normal times tackling the fruit is quite a task, he's doing it with the resigned patience of someone who doesn't have choice. If he wished he were elsewhere, he is not showing it. Home does this to even the most tempestuous of characters.

 Once Dingko was one. The angeras-an-awesome-weapon-wielding Asian Games boxing gold-medal winner who arrived as a whirlwind in the mid-1990s and was, just as swiftly, relegated to an afterthought. The catchy name had some recall but no one really complained once he slipped from away from our fleeting consciousness. If somebody at all missed him, it was in across the country's few SAI boxing training, where every hopeful thereafter was told to train to be like Dingko and imbibe his technique, perhaps not so much his head.
 
 A framed citation of a   hangs forlornly on the outside wall of his village home. Reflected on the glass is the image of a slight, bent man in the courtyard and it merges with the photograph behind it, of a handsome young man in Naval uniform receiving the award. Who is the real Dingko Singh, the then or the now? The now is an impostor, trapped in that once-awesome body, when the chest was puffed out and the nose forever high in the air, looking larger than his lithe bantamweight five-foot-something frame.
 
 It is only later that you realise that you have seldom seen Dingko bare-handed before, not strapped in tape and bound in by gloves. These are commonplace, everyday hands today. When you are forced to panic sell your apartment in the city to meet your medical expenses, your existence becomes ordinary.   is fast becoming so commonplace, like someone said, it's losing its gravitas. Dingko is a common person today. He's now just a shade over 60 kg, having lost 25 kg during the course of his illness. 
 
 “I don't like it,” he says to himself, shaking his head and looking away. In his prime, he was a sharp 54 kg, but that's another story.
 
 His wife of over a decade-and-a-half, still has a bit of a fan-girl about her. “'Don't take off your shirt before the mirror these days,' I tell him,” Ngangom Babai half-laments, half-giggles. “It is torture to see him half his size. Even years after he had retired, he had this terrific physique,” she says.
 
 In a sense, his cancer - he underwent his third round of chemotherapy in Imphal last week after surgery in the Capital last January ­ also exhumes the man and his legend and only adds to the twisted irony of the whole thing.
 
 Back then, Dingko's immediate appeal lay in his being a hero by his own rules. Aggression was a rare virtue in Indian sport, even frowned upon and far from being immensely marketable as it is today. And here was this strange phenomenon scripting it as he felt fit. “
 . Maybe extreme adversity makes you that,“ says Ibomcha Singh, Manipur boxing's Masters Oogway and Shifu rolled into one, who gently moulded Dingko into channelizing his inner rage. Ibomcha is alluding to the extreme poverty Dingko saw as a child, being sent to an orphanage as adolescent because his widowed mother couldn't afford to feed eight mouths.
 
 Much before Bhiwani became the cradle for Indian boxing, Dingko was the unsaid reference point. At the 1996 Nationals in Calcutta, they chanted the name of the little-known, lightning-fast Services boxer who had everyone floored with rarely-seen talent. A year later, he was `best boxer' at the traditional scrap that is the King's Cup in Thailand. After he beat American Gerald Tucker in the semifinal, Dingko tells us how he was asked by Tucker's coach to forgo the final with Russian Ilfar Riazapov and prepare for life as a professional because that's what he was cut out for. Dingko simply laughed it off.
 
 The following year, a first-round exit at the   seemed no more than a mere blip, but it was to have life-altering ramifications. Based on that reverse, despite being India's best boxer, he wasn't picked for the Bangkok Asian Games. The story goes that he knocked off a bottle each night for a week in blind fury following the rejection. The Services stepped in and made the officials see sense. We all know the Bangkok story. Seven gold medals were a typically poor return, only made heartening by a famous gold won by a hockey team driven by dissent and a Jyotirmoy Sikdar double win on the athletics track. But it was that last-minute entrant's shock gold that continued to reverberate, the story gaining in mystique and legend each time it was repeated.
 
 And just like that, Dingko fell off the map. There was a long-running wrist injury which just didn't seem to heel. “I remember only cutting the plaster in the early days of our marriage,” remembers Ngangom, who secretly wishes daughter Arina, 12, takes up her father's sport. “Waisa hi aggression hai,” she laughs.
 
 “
 ,“ says Dingko. He doesn't tick today's pre-set boxes of what a story-selling hero should be, but is happier, perhaps, assisting Ibomcha in training youngsters who swear by Dinkgo's name. “
 ,” says Grace Chingnaihlian. Grace, 20, uses her tiny arms and oversized gloves to illustrate what her `Sir' teaches her, shoes squeaking on the wooden floor as she demonstrates the correct footwork. She is shadowboxing to the tune of Dingko 'Sir,' who himself says he's fighting the toughest bout of his life.
 
 “I never got a walkover in my career,” he says. “I have three rounds of chemotherapy to go. Maybe, this time, in this fight, I'll finally win a walkover this time. 
 ...”
 
