THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sultana invoked 108 karanas (postures) of Lord Shiva with absolute piety and offered herself in submission, in praise of the master of Thandava. Later she rushed towards her mother who stood by the corner of the   venue at the University College on Tuesday. The mother looked pleased, almost moved to tears.

 On Monday, she had watched her daughter realize her late husband’s dream. “Her father Najeeb had always been her biggest support. He was so passionate about   that he wanted Sultana to learn the art and perform it in front of viewers. But he passed away last year,” said Sajina Najeeb, mother of Sultana who is a second year BCom student at St Xaviers College at Thumba.
 
 “We could not afford to pay for the costumes and other expenses to let her perform Kathakali all these years. With the help of her teachers and the money she raised from teaching dance for young children at Arjuna dance school in Kazhakoottam, she performed Kathakali and secured third prize yesterday,” said Sajni Najeeb even as she broke into tears.
 
 For the last six years, Najeeb H would fly down from Dubai to Kerala before the curtains are raised for his daughter Sultana Najeeb’s dance performance at the   venues. Najeeb, who worked as a salesman at a private printing press in Dubai, had been swimming against the tides to stand by his daughter’s love for dance defying frowns from his orthodox family. Even as Sultana continued to collect prizes and score A grade at each youth festival, Najeeb was always struggling to provide financial aid to his daughter in her pursuit of art.
 
 But when Sultana secured the third prize for Kathakali at the 39th   youth festival here on Monday, he was not among the audience. On his routine visit to watch his daughter at the youth festival, Najeeb passed away following a heart attack last May.
 
 “I started learning dance since I was 3 and ever since I had faced criticism for learning dance, wearing make-up and so on. My father stood by me all these years and let me pursue my dream. He even shifted our home from a rural area in Kaniyapuram where no one knew about this art form. We moved to Kazhakoottam because my father could not stand the neighbours criticising me for going for dance shows which ends only by late night,’’ said Sultana Najeeb on her way to the green room after her Bharathanatyam performance at the youth festival on Tuesday.
 
 It is hardly 10 months since Najeeb passed away and ever since Sultana had been raising the family by teaching dance at a dance school in Kazhakoottam.
 
