PILIBHIT: After TOI reported on July 4 about elderly villagers around Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) bring sent into the forest by their relatives to be attacked by tigers in the hope of compensation, PTR officials convened the first ever ‘motivational panchayat’ at a village here to find a solution to man-tiger conflict.

  However, the villagers turned on the officials and warned them that the tigers would be killed if they came out of the forest.
  
  The meeting, attended by range officers of PTR and policemen from   police station, was held at   village, whose resident, 55-year-old Nanki Devi had been killed by a tiger on July 1.
  
  “Although the panchayat was aimed at convincing the villagers not to enter the forest area, the villagers told PTR officials to confine the big cats to the forest, or they would kill the animals,” said Dilip Shrivastav, the range officer of   forest range who was present in the meeting.
  
  Shrivastav said he tried to convince the villagers that PTR had succeeded in seeking the approval of the local   for Rs 5 lakh out of his local area development fund to lay solar wire fencing over a stretch of 3 km, but the villagers could not feel convinced.
  
  “I explained to villagers that the annual plan of operation (APO) of PTR for the current financial year had been sent to National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) for Rs 14.20 crore, including Rs 6 crore for solar wire fencing over 165km to protect 100 sensitive villages, including 65 highly sensitive ones. I told them that the physical work would be initiated as soon as the funds were allocated, but the villagers told us they would stop entering the forest only when PTR officials stopped tigers from coming out into their fields,” Shrivastav said.
  
  The range officer alleged that the villagers threatened to snatch the weapons of PTR’s field force if their demands were not complied with.
  
  Shrivastav said that he would file an urgent report on the proceedings of the meeting to DFO of PTR, Kailash Prakash, with a request to convey information about the villagers’ attitude to senior forest officials so that the funds for solar wire fencing could be released on a priority basis by the state government.
  
  On being asked about the aggressive behaviour of villagers in village meeting, a local private teacher and resident of village Methi Saidullaganj, Naresh Chandra, said that the “victimized villagers” had no option but to turn against PTR officials in the absence of any concrete plan to protect locals from tiger attacks.
  
  The DFO of PTR, Kailash Prakash, told TOI that of the total fund requirement of Rs 14.20 crore, the state government had not allocated any money so far during this financial year.
