NEW DELHI: Crop   may continue this year too as both Punjab and Haryana governments have submitted that it may be difficult to enforce a complete ban on the act.

 The National Green Tribunal-appointed committee on air pollution headed by Union environment secretary held a meeting last week where it was decided that steps will be taken to make   profitable by creating a market for it so that farmers don’t burn stubble. “We can’t just arrest farmers for burning crop residue. It’s a livelihood issue for them. We need to create a market instead for crop residue so that farmers get an economic value for the stubble,” said a senior official who attended the meeting. 
 
 Sources told TOI that the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) is drafting a report on the options of using farm residue. “There are several alternatives like making straw briquettes (can be used by power plants or as industrial fuel) or making bio-CNG by fermenting biomass,” the official added. TOI couldn’t reach Haryana chief secretary who attended the meeting.
 
 Delhi last year suffered a massive spike in air pollution levels, including a severe smog episode on November 6, following the stubble burning season and Diwali. Calling the episode an “environmental emergency”, NGT had formed the committee consisting chief secretaries of five NCR states and heads of pollution control boards in the same month.
 
 With harvesting of paddy likely to begin by September-end in Punjab and Haryana, farmers said there is hardly any time to make any interventions now. MP Singh, additional chief secretary and financial commissioner (development), said, “The Punjab government is concerned about crop stubble burning. We have taken a number of measures including sensitising farmers about the benefits of not burning stubble. We have recently approached manufacturers of harvester machines to provide attachments or modifications that can scatter the stubble across the fields.”
 
 He added, “We are also looking at methods for organic decomposition of stubble. We have already submitted our action plans in relation to various court cases in NGT and Delhi high court detailing these ideas.” 
 
 However, taking penal action against farmers was not an option, Singh said. “One has to understand their side of the story. They have a very small gap of 20 days between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. We have also asked   (PAU) scientists to come up with a solution,” added.
 
 Meanwhile, DK Behera, director (Agriculture), Haryana, said: “Our primary focus is to encourage farmers not to burn stubble through awareness campaigns. The Centre has given us Rs 75 crore this time to buy machines that cut stubble from the base.”
 
 
