TNN

 Mumbai: Finance minister   has assured full support to the   system and said that the government is in a strong position on the back of anti-black money measures and tax reforms.
 
 Describing growing   with   as a “major challenge”, Jaitley said that India has demonstrated its ability to reform and grow at a reasonable pace even when the world was slowing down. “India has a great sense of entrepreneurship. We have a large market. The government stands one with the banking system and whatever steps are required to find a resolution to this problem, we will expeditiously work with the banking system to find a solution,” said Jaitley.
 
 Speaking at the 70th annual general meeting of the Indian Banks Association, Jaitley said, “India itself has a great amount of resilience and that resilience enables it to find solutions to various challenges which remain.” He was referring to the banking system’s struggle with bad debt. “Indian public opinion is more in support of reform than it ever was. Therefore, India’s ability to meet challenges is much higher than what it has traditionally been,” he added.
 
 Jaitley said, “There are two major challenges — encouraging private sector investment and ensuring capacity of banks to support growth. I think we have done an adequate amount of analysis as to the causes of how these challenges got thrown up. We now have to look for solutions and make sure that the issues get resolved much faster.”
 
 Jaitley said the campaign against black money and the move to an alternative taxation system is aimed at making sure that the ability of the state itself is strong. 
 
 On the implementation of the goods and services tax (GST), Jaitley said that these are early days for the alternative taxation system. “So far, it appears to be going on smoother than expected. The decision-making structure on the top has been institutionalised and the number of people coming into the network is likely to expand,” he said. Commending banks for their efforts in opening accounts for all, Jaitley said that the strides India has made in financial inclusion is the single most successful feature of the Indian banking system. “It was this that laid down the foundation for several important steps that the country had to take,” said Jaitley. “In terms of implementing large number of government schemes, it is this infrastructure that has proved to be very useful. The ability of system to target support in the direction where support must go has now been made possible,” said Jaitley.
 
 Jaitley said that with digital transactions doubling, there has been a compression of cash in the system. There has also been an improvement in tax compliance with number of assesses expanding. “The message has gone out to society that it is no longer safe or proper to deal with cash,” said Jaitley.
 
 
