BENGALURU: None of the political parties in Karnataka seem to be overtly expressing their concern about the political funding reforms introduced in the   having a   on their chances in the  .

 With public trust at stake, the state’s three major political parties have welcomed capping of   at Rs 2,000 and making all transactions above it mandatory by way of digital transfers or cheques. However, the parties are sceptical as to how the new policy of electoral bonds will function and whether it will have any real impact on elections.
 
 JD(S) floor leader H D Kumaraswamy was vocal in saying the political funding restrictions will not make any real impact stating that his regional party does not receive any heavy funding.
 
 “One minister in the Congress cabinet has crores of rupees, secured from contractors and other lobbies. Only when his high command pressed for some funding he parted with the money. Now, can such funding be curbed by these reforms? These are just an eye wash to garner public support for the BJP,” Kumaraswamy said.
 
 Kumaraswamy said the government must first address the corrupt practices by which political leaders and bureaucrats garner wealth.
 
 KPCC working president and AICC spokesperson Dinesh Gundu Rao was diplomatic in terms of rebutting the political reforms proposed by Jaitley. “While we welcome the move, considering the matter has been heavily debated in the public forum. There are certain practical issues which need to be addressed. Instead of having 10 anonymous donors contributing Rs 20,000 each, now there will 100 such anonymous donors. How can you stop such activities?” he asked.
 
 Nonetheless, all parties agreed that there will be some concerns in terms of generating funding for elections as most of their benefactors tend to be anonymous fearing a backlash if the beneficiary political outfit does not come to power.
 
 Both the JD(S) and Congress were still waiting for a concrete picture on how the system of electoral bonds will function, and whether it will have any real impact on the election process.
 
 
 
 
 Making political parties receive donations by cheque or digital modes is a step in the right direction. I will say it is the first step as an open cheque system will make the donor commit himself to the party. This will also kill the ambiguity as to who is donating or subscribing to a party. The digital transactions will also help in solving money laundering. | Harish Ramaswamy, political analyst.
 
