KOLKATA: Trinamool chief   on Friday hit out Left, Right and Centre in front of a sea of supporters gathered in the heart of the city to observe Martyrs' Day. She said gau rakshaks had turned into “gau rakshasas“, urged supporters to start a “BJP Quit India“ movement and vowed to not let the party win “a single seat“ from Bengal in the 2019   polls, and accused CPM of having an “underhand deal“ with BJP.

 “Reach out at the booth level against the riot-mongers,“ she told the crowd, adding the “BJP Quit India“ stir must start from August 9, on the lines of the Quit India movement that Gandhi had started against the British on August 8,1942. “We won't allow BJP to take asingle seat from Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha votes,“ the chief minister said, bringing about a change in her antiCPM narrative.
 
 With opposition presidential candidate Meira Kumar having got the highest votes from Bengal, Banerjee said: “The President-elect didn't get the votes NDA had expected. The game is not that easy. A total of 18 parties have come together. Opposition unity is growing, with two more parties com ing in favour of our Vice-President candidate. Remember Modi won't be getting 30% votes in the 2019 polls.“ The chief minister obviously had an eye on assuming a pivotal role on the anti-BJP platform at the national level. “Our party is with Soniaji ( ) and all others who are fighting BJP ,“ said Banerjee, even while her party is at war with Congress and CPM in Bengal.
 
 Banerjee's underscoring of the growing opposition strengthis being construed as a bid to build pressure on central investigating agencies -CBI, Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax -bothering 12 of her front-ranking party leaders. She made out a case for her party by pointing to “CBI's silence“ on the “huge corruption“ in the BJP-run states of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka. “Where is the CBI when it comes to probing the multicrore mining scam in Rajasthan, the Vyapam scam in   or the Rs 30,000-crore gas scam in Guja rat,“ she questioned, in a bid to buttress her “political vendetta“ theory . She said those scams were of a “much bigger scale“ than the Rs 1,500 crore-Rs 2,000 crore Saradha scam that happened during “Left rule“. “Why are the central agencies dragging the SaradhaNarada probes? They are calling Subrata Mukherjee one day , Firhad Hakim the next day only to insult them. We are not going to take it lying down. We will file defamation suits against the agencies,“ the CM said.
 
 She spared no shot in her battle cry against BJP . “Some hooligans are running the country . The gau rakshaks from the saffron family are lynching people. They have turned into gau rakshasas,“ she thundered. “The Narendra Modi government has miserably failed on the economic front, as is evident from the slide in GDP growth rate, employment generation, industrial production. As many as 12,000 farmers have committed suicide across the country . The leaders have made money out of notebandi. We demand a probe into the entire process. GST is another affront on people. Our film industry , sweet shops, jewellery trade have been hit hard. BJP leaders are thus fomenting religious passion, asking people what to eat and what not to eat.“ The points Banerjee touched on against the BJP government have been raised by the Left, though she said CPM had an “underhand deal“ with BJP .“Has the CBI sent summons to CPM leaders? CPM engages in tall talk without doing anything and transfers votes during presidential polls in secret,“ the CM said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, claimed that the additional votes that Ramnath Kovind got came from TMC. “Some Bengal legislators showed their no-confidence in Mamata and voted for Kovind, while others cancelled their votes,“ Ghosh said.State CPM secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra laughed at the CM's allegation.“She is getting nervous. She has been poaching for all these days. Now her party has been a victim of poaching by a more powerful party. We also share some of the points that Banerjee has raised against BJP . What she didn't say is that she has been practising the same things in Bengal,“ Mishra said.
 
