 was known in her neighbourhood in Kurseong for wearing the brightest, biggest red ‘tika’ during ‘Dashain’, Dussehra in the rest of the country, the 10-day festival that she and most of the Gorkhas in the Darjeeling   wait and prepare the whole year for.

 She would come out on Dashami, the last day of the celebrations, with the whole of her forehead smeared with a paste made from rice grains, curd (for the stickiness) and vermilion (for the colour). She would always have a set of new clothes bought from Fancy Market to mark the day.
 
 On Saturday, as Darjeeling, weary after a strike that lasted an unprecedented 104 days, woke up to  , Rumba was clear that this time she would forego the red tika she was famous for and wear a black tilak instead. “It’s for the lives we lost during the recent agitation for Gorkhaland,” she said. “It’s also a pledge that we will not back down and persist with our demand for a separate homeland for the Gorkhas of India.”
 
 For the Gorkhas, Dashain is a time when they pray, eat, drink and wear their best clothes with an urgency that no other festival sees. In the all-round revelry that follows, everyone does brisk business. Meat vanishes from bazaars by early afternoon. Eateries and booze shops are always crowded. Many spend their month’s earnings in a day partying with friends and relatives, dancing to local folk tunes.
 
 It was different this year. Dashain was “very political”, as Krishna Rai, a school teacher, put it. Large sections of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s leadership have been arrested. Its chief,  , wanted under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, is in hiding.
 
 There is simmering resentment against the   government, first for trying to impose Bengali as a language in the Hills and then for what considerable sections of society view as human rights violations during the past few months.
 
 The daughter of a senior cop who retired some years ago after serving the Bengal government all his life said he has been slapped with sedition for speaking up against “Kolkata’s attempt at cultural colonisation of the Darjeeling Hills”. He is now trying to escape the same police force he worked for. “On what grounds has he been charged with such a stringent section,” she asked, requesting not to be named. “We are seeking a separate state, not country.” Recently, a petition reached NHRC regarding Manika Thami, a porter in Darjeeling.
 
 Thami was picked up by cops on July 8 for carrying weapons that no one found in her person. She is still in detention along with her daughter.
 
 If there is anger and grief at the death of 11 people who lost their lives in the latest round of agitation for Gorkhaland and the perceived excesses of the Bengal police, there is also confusion among the general public. With Gurung out of sight, Banerjee picked a team to take charge of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the semi-autonomous body that the GJM chief was heading. Opinion regarding their intention as far as the cause of Gorkhaland is concerned is deeply debated.
 
 “The leadership is divided. But people are one,” Rumba said. “We will march on for Gorkhaland.”
 
 
