Amaravati: Even as the state administration is gearing up to ground Amaravati construction works with massive structures and industries, air pollution levels in two major cities in the capital region - Vijayawada and Guntur - are going up at an alarming pace. Unless immediate corrective measures are put in place, the situation may go awry. 

 Senior medical professionals are worried that the day is not far off for the people of Vijayawada and Guntur to face a New Delhi like situation if steps are not taken to check the trend on a war footing. If the situation is not kept under control now, it may reach dangerous levels in the future, making it difficult for people even to breathe, say experts. 
 
 Interestingly, the   (CPCB) had alerted the state government about the rapidly increasing air pollution levels in the state almost four months ago. CPCB says ambient particulate matter (PM10) was found exceeding the national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) in Vijayawada, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore and Visakhapatnam. Air pollution is a serious matter considering the adverse impact on health.
 
 CPCB also reminded the government how seriously the  , high courts and the   (NGT) handled air pollution issues while asking the government and the state pollution control board to be ready with a blue print to control pollution. 
 
 A few months after the CPCB warning, global NGO Greenpeace came out with a more stunning report saying that air pollution levels at Guntur, Ananthapur and Visakhapatnam have exceeded the national average. While national average of PM10 concentration is 60 ug/m3, Guntur has touched almost a record level of 100 ug/m3. Thus, Guntur has secured a place in the top pollutant cities in the country. Similarly, it was around 84 ug/m3 in Anantapur and and 61 ug/m3 in Visakhapatnam. 
 
 However, according to CPCB, it is Vijayawada which has the highest level of PM10 in the state with 110 ug/m3. The air pollution levels in Vijayawada city have been constantly going up in the last five years. While it was around 90 ug/m3 in 2011, it was 97 ug/m3 in 2012. It crossed the 100-mark when it reached 104 ug/m3 in 2014. It broke its own record by touching 110 ug/m3 in 2015. This is almost double the national average of 60 ug/m3. "Air pollution is one of the major health concerns for citizens as the the number of cases of breathing problems is growing fast," observed noted pulmonologist Dr G Ravindranath. 
 
 The air pollution levels in Guntur have gone up from just 74 to 100 in a span of five years. Interestingly, the levels in Visakhapatnam have come down from 84 ug/m3 to 61 ug/m3. Fast degrading greenery in and around the capital city is one of the major reasons for growing air pollution levels in the twin cities, said professor P Sundara Kumar, who conducted various studies on loss of greenery in the capital city region. 
 
  Although capital region development authority (CRDA) has initiated several measures to make Amaravati a green-blue city, no one in the civic bodies at Vijayawada and Guntur seems to be bothered about the plight of the locals.
 
 
