BHOPAL: The   has pulled up state revenue department and Bhopal Municipal Corporation for delaying the shifting of the lone slaughter house from city limits to the newly proposed venue. 

 The alleged delay in transferring the proposed 64 acre land to BMC upset the green bench, which expressed its displeasure in no uncertain terms. “You have created a situation where NGT has to take harsh steps. This cannot be accepted. I must warn you that your reputation is at stake,” judicial member Justice Dalip Singh said while hearing the case. Expert member S S Garbyal was present on the occasion.
 
 The NGT bench gave 15 days more to the revenue department to hand over the proposed land to BMC and directed the civic body to simultaneously prepare work order before October 4. BMC was asked to take possession of the allocated land for the abattoir within a week.
 
 The bench ordered that all the technical expertise needed for maintaining sanitation at the site must be taken before the deadline. “Issues ranging from layout of construction zone, buffer areas, to infrastructure should be solved and a progress report submitted before this tribunal by October 5,” the bench ruled. BMC officials were directed to complete the work within 18 months of issuing work order. 
 
 “In the given 15 days, BMC will take construction agency on site visit,” it ordered. “Within 18 months and before the deadline, the slaughter house should be functional as well as operational.” 
 
 The extended deadline given by the NGT ends on March 31, 2018, after which every day’s delay will incur a fine of Rs 10,000. The state capital’s abattoir will be set up near the municipal solid waste (MSW) facility at Adampur Chhawani on the Raisen road where a total of 64 acre of land including the additional 10 acre land which were recently sought by BMC.
 
 Earlier, the state government had changed its stand on allotment of land for slaughterhouse at Stud Farms near Arera Hills. Pulling up the authorities, the NGT asked the government to submit progress report as well on the bifurcation of the 64-acre land. The long-pending issue will be heard by the green tribunal on October 5.
 
 The tribunal had instructed senior officials to come up with a solution by September 20. Revenue officials on Wednesday told NGT that land-related issues have been solved and the department will soon issue orders for transfer of land. The Agra-based Haji Mohammad Ashiq Agro (HMA), a modernized meat processing firm, has been recruited by the state government as executing agency.
 
 Speaking to TOI,   said, “As soon as we issue work order, construction will start at the site. We will abide by NGT orders and hope to complete it before deadline.”  , however, is reportedly adamant that no slaughterhouse will be allowed in the state, especially in his constituency.
 
