AHMEDABAD: The chargesheet filed by the police last year in the   case contains more evidence of the mischief that the accused had in mind. The forensic science laboratory (FSL) had retrieved parts of the video of the incident that were deleted by the accused. The transcript of one of such clipping reveals that the self-styled ‘gau rakshaks’ wanted to project the dalits as Muslims.

 It may be recalled that on July 11 last year, four dalit youths — Ashok, Ramesh, Vashram and Bechar Sarvaiya — all of whom were Hindus were flogged by the ‘cow vigilantes’ in public, allegedly for cow slaughter. The video of their brutal thrashing had gone viral and triggered shock and horror across India. It had also led to widespread protests across the country. The CID (crime) had filed a chargesheet with the transcript of the video last year but the document was made public recently.
 
 The transcript annexed to the chargesheet filed in Una court quotes the accused as saying: “Tell the truth…you belong to which community? Don’t do drama here…stop crying…. Beat him. What is your name? I know you very well … Your name is Aarif…. Why did you run away...? Tell me will you ever run away…? You slaughtered (the cow). [Then the dalit is abused]. Take this from me [the accused hurls abuses]. Grab that woman [the mother of the four dalit youths] also and take her [the accused uttered abusive words about raping the woman]. You [to Hindu dalit youth they had named Arif] were ferrying beef the other day in a tempo around a month ago….”
 
 The gau rakshaks then abused the state government and said, “Don’t scream and stop beating that woman. Prakash stop it and thrash them. Let us tie them to the vehicle and parade them, then only will they understand this.”
 
 The chargesheet says that the accused had made the video viral and because of this widespread violence had broken out in the state causing losses worth crores. One policeman had also lost his life. Besides, many dalits had tried to end their lives and one of them had died. The accused had, therefore, committed the offence of spreading hatred among communities, the chargesheet says.
 
 After the incident, the perpetrators had called a meeting where Shantilal Monpara, one of the masterminds of the offence and trustee of Sanatan Trust, instructed his aides on how to fake evidence in the case.
 
 “After the intervention of dalit activists, the FIR was lodged in the case. But Monpara had then called a meeting and asked his aides to start circulating a video of the incident to establish how dalits were slaughtering cows. Monpara along with other accused had then asked the accused, Nitin Kothari, to tell the police that when they reached the spot (where Sarvaiyas were skinning), the legs of the cows were moving,” the chargesheet says.
 
