The year 2017 only just arrived, but one manufacturing company is already looking 45 years into the future.

 Arconic, a materials science company based in New York, has envisioned a three mile-high skyscraper built from materials that are either in-development or have already been brought to market, including smog-eating surfaces and retractable balconies. They say that the tower could be built by 2062, using   printing technology to create walls that could withstand high winds and unique climates.
 
 The tower was part of the company's larger campaign known as “The Jetsons,“ a homage to the 1962 cartoon set in 2062. Arconic's engineers work alongside futurists to imagine the technologies that will be most useful several decades from now.
 
 Sherri McCleary , one of Arconic's chief materials scientists, says one of the most exciting and immediate projects is EcoClean, a special coating that helps buildings self-clean and purify the surrounding  . It was first released in 2011. “The functional coating provides aesthetics, maintenance benefits and reduces pollutants,“ she tells  .
 
 EcoClean works with help from light and water vapour, which mix with the chemicals in the coating to produce free radicals that pull in pollutants from the air and break them down to get sloughed off the side of the building along with dirt and grime -almost like dead skin. The end result is a cleaner building surrounded by cleaner air.
 
 The windows, called Bloomframe, are essentially motorised and convert into an all-glass balcony in under a minute. Arconic has been showcasing the technology at trade shows around the world and will hit the market in the “near future,“ a company spokesperson says. Rather than spend twice the money on materials to build separate windows and ledges, Arconic wants to invest in flexible components that can make buildings more than just static giants. Skyscrapers built from 3D-printed materials could stretch more than three miles in the sky, Arconic says.
 
