NAGPUR: The committee constituted by energy minister   to investigate   to farmers is yet to submit its report even though almost two years have passed since it was set up. The committee was constituted in July 2015 and it was to submit its report in three months. However, it has been seeking extension after extension.

 The report is important because serious allegations have been levelled against MSEDCL by several organizations. There were charges that MSEDCL issued inflated power bills to farmers to claim extra subsidy from state government and also to artificially reduce  . Moreover, as farmers felt that they were being overbilled, they did not pay their bills. TOI has highlighted this issue several times in the past.
 
 A source in MSEDCL said that the initial report was shared with company officials. “The initial report caused panic among them as it showed that MSEDCL field officers had systematically fudged agricultural pump power consumption data to artificially reduce distribution losses. The discom had misled Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and consumers by submitting this bogus data,” he told TOI. 
 
 MERC had directed MSEDCL several times to get a third party audit of farm pump power consumption done but these directives were ignored lest the truth came out.
 
 The source further said that before the committee was set up, MSEDCL distribution losses on many agricultural feeders was negative. “This means that the energy consumed by the farmers was more than the energy supplied to them. This is scientifically impossible,” he added.
 
 The field survey done by   has showed that the actual farm power consumption is far less than claimed by MSEDCL. The discom has been thus issuing inflated bills to farmers.
 
 After his initial zeal, Bawankule has been going slow on the committee. He had first announced in May 2015 that the committee would start its work from July 1, 2015. However, the committee was not set up until July 23, 2015. The committee members did not meet till December 2015, after which they started the actual work. They were supposed to complete the exercise in three months but the report is still awaited.
 
 Vishwas Pathak, director of MSEB Holding Company and chairman of the committee, said that figures from   (IIT), Powai, were awaited. “We will recheck them and then submit the report to government within a month,” he added.
 
 Consumer activist Pratap Hogade, who is one of the members of the committee, said that the preparation of the report was in its final stage and would be submitted to the government within fifteen days.
 
