SURAT: The country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market in the city reopened on Tuesday after 15-day strike by   to protest against Goods and Services Tax (GST). The textile traders, who were on an indefinite strike demanding removal of   on MMF fabrics from July 3 after having kept the markets shut for five days in June too, unanimously decided on Tuesday to   and also keep the fight on for simplification of GST rules. 

 Deviating from their earlier demand of removing GST on MMF fabrics, imposing extra rate of GST on yarn and deferring the implementation of GST in textile sector for 18 months, Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) leaders took a U-turn after meeting bureaucrats and Union finance minister in New Delhi on Sunday. The FOSTTA office-bearers were called to New Delhi by Union minister of state for road transport Mansukh Mandaviya for discussions. 
 
 The FOSTTA office-bearers claimed that   had a 50 minute meeting with them in his chamber. Jaitley told them that there was no question of either removing GST from fabrics, passing GST on yarn or deferring the GST at all. Jaitley stated that the GST Council will think on the 12-points submitted by traders for GST’s simplification. 
 
 Amid tension in the textile markets for the last two days, the FOSTTA had called a meeting of presidents and vice-presidents of the textile markets on Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja at Surat Textile Market’s (STM) board room on Tuesday. Leaders stated that the GST Council will take up their 12-point simplification demand at its next meeting scheduled in August. 
 
 FOSTTA general secretary Champalal Bothra said, “Union finance minister Arun Jaitley has given us an assurance that our 12-point demand would be taken up at the next GST Council meeting to be held in the first week of August. He wanted the traders to end their strike. Hence, the traders unanimously decided to end the indefinite strike, but keep the fight against the GST on.” 
 
 Bothra said the 12-point demand includes input tax credit (ITC), credit on old stock before June 30, abolition of GST on service sectors like embroidery, lace patti, cartoons, box packaging, filing of GST every three months, deferring penalty amount for 12 months etc. 
 
 FOSTTA president Manoj Agarwal said, “A committee of presidents and vice-presidents of all the 165 markets will be formed in the next few days to fight the GST on fabrics. If the GST Council fails to accept the 12-point demand in August, then we will decide on our future course of action. Till then, the markets will operate.”
 
 
