
 
  The scenic   of   in   taluka has contributed significantly to the economic, social and cultural development of Goa and beyond.
  Telaulim derives its name from its three distinctive lakes called Novem Tollem, Pornnem Tollem and Boshe Tollem. During the pre-1961 period, in particular, this village comprising seven vadde (traditional wards) including Primeiro, Baincho, Second Daddio, First Daddio/Danddo, Coldem, Belem and Dialgona saw amongst its citizenry people of noteworthy credential. Telaulim is surrounded by the village of Navelim on its eastern and northern borders and River Sal on its western and southern borders.
  
 Telaulim in Salcete is many a times confused with another village of similar-sounding name called Talaulim, in Tiswadi taluka. Government agencies such as the department of land survey mistakenly record the village’s name on documents like the Form I & XIV as Talaulim, but, hyphenate it with Salcete.
  Like Aquem, Davorlim and Dicarpale, Telaulim is one of the four comunidades that contributed towards the construction of the Our Lady of the Rosary Church in Navelim, built in 1597. Telaulim does not have its own church and is part of the Navelim parish. But, it does have a chapel with a resident chaplain. After 1963, when village panchayats were introduced in Goa, Telaulim was part of the Navelim panchayat with a single ward member representing the village. Later, Telaulim got its own village panchayat.On the economic front, Telaulim was rich in agriculture, cattle-rearing, fishing and salt farming. The village has a population of 5,000 persons, of which, 2,300 are voters.
  
  
 
  It is tradition that the lantern procession starts from Mount Carmel Chapel to signal the commencement of the novena for the feast of Our Lady of Rosary in
  Navelim. The procession begins at 3.30am and reaches in time for the 5.30am mass at Rosary College ground. In the past, Telaulim residents would go to the Western Ghats to get cattle for the ‘Boilanchi Feri’ (cattle fair).
  
 
  
  In days of the bygone era, Telaulim excelled in many aspects of the economy, mainly agriculture, cattle-rearing, fishing and salt farming. Today, the village is facing the same challenge like the other villages of Goa. Telaulikars are reluctant to continue with traditional occupations such as agriculture, cattle-rearing and salt farming.
  
 
  In our panchayat’s internal meeting, as well as in the gram sabha, there is tooth-and-nail opposition to the landfilling activity in the village, especially in the green area and in the paddy fields. The violators will be dealt with severely. Even the assistance of the block development officer (BDO) will be taken to curb the menace. In order to tackle the challenge of sewage overflowing from septic tanks of their residential units, builders will have to take responsibility.
  
  
 was vice-president of Camara Municipal de Salcete.
  
 was vice-consul of Portugal in Rangoon, Burma.
  
 was a teacher and polygot who knew English, Portuguese, French, Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati.
  
 was an orthopaedic surgeon who was a pioneer in hip transplant surgery in Portugal. The hall in the military hospital in Lisbon is named in his memory.
  
 was chief registrar (Conservador do Registo de Civil) in Panjim.
  
 was village head (Regedor) of Navelim and Telaulim.
  
 was a freedom fighter and founder of Confidant, pioneer in advertising, furniture-on-hire, antique dealers and real estate in Goa.
  
 was a cloister congregation nun from Second Daddio.
  
 was ex-sarpanch and an award-winning tiatrist.
  
 was a teacher at Infant Jesus HS, Colva, and recipient of the 2014 state government award.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  It was constructed in 1524 and its feast is celebrated on the penultimate Sunday of October.
  
  
 
  It was the place where the original settlers, who had come from places like Verna and surrounding areas, resided in Telaulim. There were temples and 'mutts' in the area in the past era. An idol of a Hindu deity was found here during an excavation activity over two decades ago.
  
  
 
  These pedestal platforms were built in many parts of Telaulim in order to aid people who carried heavy loads on their heads, to rest, while keeping their load on it. Traders and their labourers from many villages of South Goa like Varca and Orlim used the Telaulim route to reach Margao.
  
  
 
  A water body for irrigation and like the other two ponds in the village, it also abounds with local fish like horchio, pintol and khier.
  
  
 
  It is believed to be older than the Our Lady of Rosary Church of Navelim, that was built in 1590.
  
  
 
  Situated at Dando vaddo, the house is over 100 years old. It is one of the oldest houses in Telaulim. Members of the family are known to have contributed a lot to the social and economic fields.
