GHAZIABAD: Close on the heels of the   government’s decision to scrap the cycle track project of his predecessor, another dream project of   in Ghaziabad may also not come up the way it was conceived. The Rs 250-crore ‘bunkar’ (weaver) mart is not finding favour with the present dispensation in Lucknow.

 According to sources, the state government is averse to the idea of developing a bunkar mart using the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s (GDA’s) funds and hence has ordered downsizing of the scale and size of the project and in compliance with it the GDA has sent a proposal to redesign the project to the government.
 
 “Prabhat Kumar, Meerut range commissioner, in a recent meeting with GDA officials, had expressed his reservations on the huge spending by the erstwhile government’s bunkar mart project, considered a brainchild of former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav,” a GDA official said.
 
 “There was talk of scrapping it altogether as the commissioner was of the view that the money could be used on infrastructure projects in Ghaziabad but when it was brought to his notice that already Rs 60 crore has been spent on the project the option of downsizing the scale and size was agreed upon,” the GDA official said.
 
 S C Diwedi, chief engineer of GDA, confirmed that a proposal to re-design the project is currently being worked out though he refused to divulge any more information on the issue. “Yes, we are working on the project’s re-design,” was all that Diwedi was prepared to say.
 
 Work on the project remains stalled as of now.
 
 The ambitious bunkar mart project was conceived by the Akhilesh government with a view to connecting the local market with the international market and Ghaziabad was chosen because of its proximity with the national capital. Spread across an area of about 10 acres near Mauban Bapudham, the work had begun in August 2016. It was supposed to host 200 shops, 16 showrooms, a sprawling guesthouse and accommodation for weavers with an underground parking area for about 717 vehicles.
 
 Dr Sanjay Mishra, a fculty member of MGM College, said, “Akhilesh’s political critics had said when the project was announced that the bunkar mart project was aimed at appeasing a section of Samajwadi Party’s traditional voters and with so many political overtones associated with the project it is no surprise that the Yogi Adityanath government has gone ahead with downsizing it.”
 
 
