NAGPUR: There has been a five times rise in the oral cancer cases at the   (GDCH) in last ten years from 2007 to 2016.

 Though not all precancerous cases get converted into cancerous cases, the rise in number of oral cancer by five times in just a single government hospital is a cause of worry.
 
 GDCH dean Dr Sindhu Ganvir told TOI that the college has got 915 oral cancer patients in advanced stages in last ten years. “People in   are known for their tobacco consumption. After banning of gutka people switched to kharra and betel nut. It is sad that there has been little change in the mindset of the people despite all the advertisement and the public education awareness programmes. It is an addiction that is more prevalent particularly in  ,” she said.
 
 Dr Ganvir said that things were worsening as people come in very late stage where it is difficult to treat them. “If the patients come during the precancerous stage, majority of them can be prevented from turning into cancerous stage. A total of 6200 precancerous cases were reported at GDCH. But only 915 cases turned into cancerous stage. Hence, awareness is the only weapon that can reduce the number of oral cancer cases. There may not be a drastic fall in the number of people consuming tobacco in any form but awareness can bring people to the hospital during the early stage,” she said.
 
 There is another form of disease which is a precursor of cancer. It is called as oral submucous fibrosis which is progressive fibrosis of submucosal tissues. It is a pre-cancer stage but generally is irreversible. In these patients, the only possible treatment is improving the opening of the mouth which is the typical symptom of the disease. The disease is chronic and is caused by chewing tobacco, consumption of betel nut. Though submucous fibrosis cases have just doubled, it is a cause for concern. It is affecting much higher number of people than cancer. In last ten years, GDCH alone has seen 1207 cases.
 
 Dr Ganvir said that the college this year would be taking more camps in the rural areas and smaller towns in the region to detect all types of mouth related diseases like submucous fibrosis, the precancerous lesions and oral cancers. “It may help us detect cases in early stages,” she said.
 
 
