PANAJI: Police verification reports, required for the issuance of  , were completed within an average of 13 days in Goa last year, minister of state for external affairs, General   (retd), informed the Lok Sabha. 

 Singh stated that various measures have been taken to reduce the time taken to complete police verification report (PVR) and expeditiously issue passports. In 2016, a total of 48,257 passports were issued at the state’s regional passport office at Patto,  , down by 3,316 from 2015. A total of 47,180 passports were issued in 2014. 
 
 The ministry is making efforts to stick to the desired timeline and Singh brought it to the notice of Lok Sabha that during 2016, the average time taken for submission of police verification reports to issue fresh passports in the country reduced from 34 to 29 days in 2015, and 42 days in 2014.
 
 Last year police verification reports were completed within an average of 13 days in Goa, five days in Telangana, 10 days in AP, 12 days in Chandigarh and 14 days in Delhi. 
 
 In order to ease and expedite the issuance of police verification report, the number of questions asked in the questionnaire has also been reduced from 12 to 9. A passport police app was launched last year for speedy submission of reports. With the app, field level verification officers can directly induct the PVR into the system digitally.
 
 Under the implementation of the Passport Seva Project, applicants can apply for their passports online, uploading relevant documents and making the payment online through debit/credit card or SBI net-banking /SBI challan, schedule an appointment and then visit the passport seva kendra (PSK).
 
 TOI reported that the ministry of external affairs (MEA) had approved the setting-up of a passport seva kendra in South Goa. South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar said a district passport office, a long-pending demand of the people, would be set up soon. “The MEA has granted approval to set up a passport centre in the premises of a post office. Officers from the passport office will be deputed to man this facility, which will function like an extension of the passport office,” Sawaikar said, adding that the facility would be set up in  . “The South Goa collector, officials of the passport office and the postmaster general are working at identifying a location,” he said, besides adding that the facility will be functional by March-end or from April.
 
