CHANDIGARH: While  's farmers can learn a thing or two about their  , state authorities too can take a cue in minimizing dependence on   or `arhtiyas' from neighbouring  , which has successfully avoided the rural debt trap.

 After analyzing the rural credit scenario in Punjab last year, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) chair Professor Satish Verma at the   in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) has now come up with a report titled: Rural credit and financial penetration in Himachal Pradesh. It will be officially released soon.
 
 The report points out that while average household debt in Punjab's villages is Rs 4.79 lakh, the amount is much lesser at Rs 1 lakh in case of the hill state.
 
 Whereas 23.63% of all borrowings in Punjab are from moneylenders, in Himachal, they contribute barely 2.67%.The reason, the report shows, is that rural area residents in Himachal prefer to rely on re latives and friends, who thus account for 22.56 % of all the loans given. This results into 14.37% of all the loans being benevolent loans, which means no or negligible interest is charged. Only in 8.20% cases interest charged is equivalent to what moneylenders seek.
 
 Prof Verma told TOI, “There are deep-rooted psychological and cultural reasons behind this. Farmers in Himachal prefer to pay back their loans and consider it a moral obligation to clear their bills during their lifetime.This ensures that their debtincome ratio is positive and they do not fall into the debt trap. However, in Punjab the farmer doesn't have much choice as the system of coope rative societies functional in Himachal is absent here.“
 
 “For consumption purposes, such as marriages, people of Himachal prefer to approach non-institutional sources.The new element in Himachal is the friends and relatives acting as moneylenders, which is not that prevalent in case of Punjab,“ he said.
 
 “In Himachal, the amount of debt due to non-institutional sources was higher in low income households. Amount availed per loans from institutional sources (Rs 1.53 lakh) was almost three times of that from the non-institutional ones (Rs 0.52 lakh) and loan availed per household was Rs 1.62 lakh and Rs 0.60 lakh from the two sources respectively ,“ reads the report.
 
 Of the total loan amount of Rs 185.44 lakh, the largest amongst non-institutional sources was contributed by relatives and friends (Rs 41.51 lakh). The contribution by a user's relatives and friends is clearly significant.
 
 The share of commission agents in rural Himachal is paltry (1.05%) in number and 0.38% in loan amount.
 
 In case of Punjab, there are nearly 22,000 `arthiyas' and the “dominant persistence of non-institutional sources of credit in Punjab seems perennial“ as in spite of the efforts by the RBI and the government, over 53% of the rural households in the state are still dependent on non-institutional sources of loans, the research has shown.
 
 Though farmers have been authorized to sell their produce directly to the purchasers in Punjab after a Punjab and Haryana high court order in 2013, “whosoever (farmers) tried it had to face the wrath of the commission agents, who, besides the muscle power also enjoy considerable political clout with both the major political parties in the state,“ says the report.
 
 In Himachal, points out Prof Verma, the household borrowings from non-institutional sources for satisfying diverse consumption needs like social ceremonies and functions are the major purposes.
 
