MARGAO: Bliss reigned on the village roads of  's mining belt during the three-year-long   in the state following the   ban on it. However, with the trucks revving and roaring again, following the resumption of mining activities, a sense of foreboding has gripped villagers. Where on the one hand mining stakeholders are pleased that the local mining economy is looking up, on the other, locals are worried that the “mining terror” has come to haunt them once again. 

 Traffic blockades, which had made life miserable for the common man in the mining belt during the pre-ban period, are being witnessed once again. The fatal accidents involving mining trucks that have laid claim to several lives following the resumption of mining are only a pointer to the fact that the government has miserably failed to put in place a foolproof mechanism to prevent road blockades and spare common man the misery, despite tall claims by the directorate of mines, anti-mining activists say. 
 
 Consider this: Along the three routes used for transportation of ore — Codli to Amona, a distance of about 30km, Codli to Capxem, a distance of around 20km, and Cavrem to Curchorem, a distance of 30km — not less than 4,000 trucks ply at any given point of time, sources in the know say. Persistent traffic blockades, reckless driving, overspeeding and overloading, has once again resulted in increased levels of dust pollution and imperiled the lives residents. 
 
 Traffic police officials, speaking to TOI, underscored the need for an elevated road or a dedicated corridor for mining traffic to ensure smooth movement of traffic.
 
 While on the one side mining stakeholders are elated over the gradual recovery of mining economy, several mining dependants, who had switched over to alternative means of livelihood following the mining ban, are apprehensive about returning to mining jobs after the long hiatus. 
 
 While some have secured jobs in the hospitality industry, several have taken to  , while many others have turned to self-employment avenues. 
 
 “Agreed, there was more money during the mining boom, but though mining has now resumed, what is the guarantee we will not be laid off again? The mining barons have no concern about their employees. I am better off tilling my fields,” a resident of Dharbandora, Pramod Naik, told TOI. 
 
 More significantly, there is a marked revival of agro-based activities in the mining belt of South Goa, knowledgeable sources in the agriculture industry told TOI. 
 
 “Apart from the fact that there is a significant increase in paddy cultivation in the mining belt, for the last three consecutive years, cash crops fetched remunerative prices for the farmers. Production of cashew nuts, areca nuts and black pepper has seen a considerable rise,” sources said.
 
 “The bottom line,” sources said, “is that the revival of agriculture holds promise for a better and robust rural economy for South Goa, mining or no mining.” 
 
