

 So you get tired too often, think about   and worry about how you will survive the week at work! Have you been experiencing   too often? Have you been working overtime just to get that bonus or appraisal without being appreciated? Are you worried about being vacation deprived? The average young Indian who worries about health, traffic hazards, financial woes, now has one more issue to consider which hasn’t gained much attention: fatigue or tiredness. According to a recent report by Mintel one in four women are concerned about   or fatigue.
 
 Around 3000 Indians between 18 to 64 were surveyed last June where they confessed to being worried about tiredness. Actor Deeksha Joshi,“We don’t get tired when we love what we do. Thinking about tirednessmeans you are not fully into what you are doing. As a student I used to get very tired while studying maths because I hated it,but being an actor doesn’t make me tired.”Deeksha who has shot for 22 hours at a stretch says,“I   overusing my phone because it makes us feel more tired. There are occasions when we end up spending too much time on social media.Use your free time to catch up on a nap instead.” 
 
 It is a well-known fact that Indians spend most number of hours at work as compared to their counterparts which also affects their health and productivity in the long run. Actor Shrenu Parikh says, “We actors get hardly any time to rejuvenate ourselves with the kind of schedules we have. Taking breaks is a great stress buster for us.”Shrenu also believes in taking power naps in between shots.“I sleep well,have a proper diet when I am shooting for longer hours.” According to the survey,25% of Indian women said their main concern was tiredness or fatigue.
 
 Mira Erda,racer,says,“I self-motivate regularly,and talk to my cart when I spend long hours racing and practicing. One must have the mental strength when they need to put in long hours at work or home,because the mind motivates the body to work little extra.” Mira’s mantra to kill stress is gyming regularly.To stay focused “I read books on self motivation. Meditation is also a pivotal part of my daily routine.” Last year India was also termed as the fourth most vacation deprived country globally which meant people spent more hours in office due to lack of staff or unable to take vacations.“Youngsters often mistake boredom for tiredness.There has been a three time rise in patients complaining about tiredness and it is mainly because of lack of daily dose of exercises,”says Prashant Bhimani, a city based psychologist. The one thing that will help youngsters to beat fatigue and stress is to learn how to strike a fine work-life balance.“Many times tiredness is also psychosomatic.I come across at least six patients each day who come with information related to their problem,” says Bhimani. According to psychologists, constant thinking of lethargy and boredom leads to chronic fatigue. Socialising and spending time with family and friends eases out tiredness and stress in youngsters. Bhimani further adds, that an easy way to curb fatigue, is a healthy mix of balanced diet, any form of physical activities and a good 7-8 hours of sleep. 
 
 
 
 
 
