JAIPUR:The Vasundhara Raje government got so perturbed by the demand for a CBI probe into gangster Anandpal Singh’s encounter that it unleashed the might of the entire police force on the common man, Congress spokesperson   said on Friday.

 Khachariyawas said it was the police that opened fire on the protesters, not the other way around, at the Sanvrad railway station late Wednesday evening. Citing the case of one Mahendra Singh, who is admitted at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital due to bullet injuries received during Sanvrad violence, the Congress leader alleged that in a brute display of force the policemen fired at the protesters from point-blank range.
 
 Addressing a press conference here, the ex-MLA wanted to know who the government was trying to save by resisting the CBI probe.
 
 “Is demanding a CBI probe a crime? And that too so big that the state government did not hesitate to gun down one more man?” asked Khachariyawas, referring to the death of one Lal Chand Sharma allegedly killed in police firing during protests over encounter of gangster Anandpal.
 
 He added, “This BJP government is habitual of ordering police firing on people agitating over their demands. In its previous tenure (2003-2008), it fired on farmers at   in 2004 and at Sohela in 2005 and then on the Gujjars in 2007 and 2008.”
 
 Objecting to home minister Gulab Chand Kataria’s reasoning for resisting CBI probe, Khachariyawas said, “He says he cannot order an inquiry against his police. Does that mean the police are now free to commit any atrocity or illegality, as the home minister will never allow investigations against it?”
 
 Khachariyawas further accused the home minister of misleading people about the protesters manhandling IPS officers deputed at Sanvrad on Wednesday. “Kataria said trainee IPS   was molested. This is a lie. The officer herself has denied it. 
 
 After the police firing some angry protesters did attack the policemen but majority in the crowd came to the officers’ defence and escorted them out,” said Khachariyawas. He added, “Could the officers have escaped from the midst of an angry mob of thousands had the majority of protesters not come to their rescue? But the home minister will never reveal this part of the incident to the people.”
 
 The Congress leader claimed that residents of Sanvrad are living under police fear ever since the gangster was killed on June 24 night. “After the violence on Wednesday night (July 12), at least 5000 policemen cordoned off Sanvrad, which has a population of barely 500, and kept firing in the air the whole night. 
 
 Young boys from every community, not just the Rajputs, of that village have been put in jail,” claimed Khachariyawas. “For a month now, children in that village have not been going to schools fearing the police,” he said.
 
