NEW DELHI: With the presidential polls now over, Bihar chief minister   is likely to initiate fresh steps to end the deadlock over the continuation of   in his ministry.
 
  His Janata Dal(U), sources said, is in touch also with the Congress to find a solution to the issue that threatens to pull apart the ruling threeparty grand alliance, even as the Rashtriya Janata Dal continued to show no sign of bending on the demand for the resignation Yadav over allegations of corruption.
  
  Kumar will seek a quick resolution of the problem to avoid any embarrassment in the assembly where the   starts next week, a JD(U) source said.
  
  “In view of the monsoon session of Bihar Vidhan Sabha beginning July 28, CM Kumar may not be in a position to allow the problem over Tejashwi’s resignation within grand alliance to continue beyond the coming week,” the source told ET.
  
  The CM was reportedly waiting for the end of presidential polls to make his move. The JD(U) supported BJP-led NDA’s candidate in the presidential poll, even as its allies backed the UPA nominee.
  
  According to the source, a big challenge for the three allies now is to present a united face in the house.
  
  Kumar does not want to be blamed for a split in the grand alliance. Sources in the JD(U) said he was in favour of making all efforts to persuade the RJD to prompt Tejashwi to resign on his own. “If he agrees to resign on his own, it would suit the political interest of the JD(U),” another source added.
  
  However, a section of leaders in the RJD is against Tejashwi ’s resignation. Their stand is that if the CM does not want Tejashwi in his cabinet, he should dismiss him. “He (Tejashwi) should go from the Nitish ministry as a martyr. But, we are sure Nitish would avoid such a situation,” an RJD source said.
  
  Nitish could offer his resignation on moral grounds, paving the way for President’s rule. “Then, the BJP will be in politically advantageous position. The JD(U) cannot afford to see the ball in the court of the BJP in such a situation,” the RJD source said.
  
  The BJP, meanwhile, appears to be in a wait-and-watch mode. Most of the BJP’s state leaders are unsure about a break in the grand alliance. “Inki dosti evam dushmani ka pata nahi rahta. Kab alag ho jaye, kab sath ho jaye (No one can predict about the friendship and enmity between the JD(U) and RJD.
  
  No one knows when they get separated and when they get united),” a source in the BJP said.
  
  
  
