PATNA: Even as   ( ), the seventh oldest university of the country, is all set for celebrating its centenary within the next couple of months with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the chief guest, it has still to cover a long distance for its transformation into a modern 21st century university. 

 The university is being kept on such a tight leash that it is unable to compete with the best institutions in the country. Lack of infrastructure and curriculum standards and poor professional development of teachers and students have contributed to the years of brain drain from this university, feel academics.
 
 They assert that developing PU into a centre of excellence would require an out-of-the-box thinking, a significant degree of autonomy and flexibility, a grand vision, a missionary zeal and a strong willpower for all the stakeholders of the university. “The university must develop its infrastructure, especially for its post-graduate departments. At present, the post-graduate departments of science faculty are running from   and those of humanities, commerce and social sciences are all cramped in  , an old-time residential complex. All post-graduate departments must have separate buildings with sufficient number of faculty members,” they say.
 
 Expressing his grave concern over the acute dearth of teachers in all the departments, PU social science faculty former dean and   former principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary opined that there must be a special recruitment drive to rope in highly qualified faculty members in all the subjects. At present, the university is suffering from inbreeding and all the senior posts of teachers, including associate professors and professors are lying vacant. The university would have to confirm to the international practices of recruiting teachers. 
 
 Suggesting some important measures for the all-round development of this premier university, PU physics department head Rohit Raman said the university should have a teacher-student ratio of 1:10. “All good institutions have a small number of students per faculty. Such ratios allow effective teaching, efficient mentoring and students’ involvement in research projects,” he said, adding research activities should also be accelerated by ensuring sufficient flow of funds from different agencies.
 
 But, all said and done, all the faculty members and students of PU are eagerly awaiting the arrival of the Prime Minister who, they hope, might make an announcement regarding conversion of this premier university into a central university. 
 
 It is the most opportune moment for both the central as well as state polity to get this age-old demand of the people of the state fulfilled. All the political leaders of the state, including Jagannath Mishra, Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar, have been advocating for conversion of PU into a central university. The central takeover will certainly rid the university of all ills and ensure its overall progress, the academics feel. 
 
 
