MUMBAI: The son of a critically ill patient who died, manhandled a resident doctor at Sion Hospital on Thursday. The incident took place inside the hospital where dozens of security commandos have been deployed since last month to protect doctors from such assaults.

 Sion police on Thursday registered a case of assaulting a doctor, but no one was arrested.
 
 Senior police officials said the patient was first admitted to   in Ghatkopar and shifted to Sion Hospital in a critical condition at around 3.30am on Thursday. “During treatment, the patient died at around 11.30am on Thursday. After the doctor declared him dead, Sunil Kale (23), the son of the deceased, held the doctor's collar and pushed him,“ said Mridula Laad, senior inspector of Sion police station. The patient's body was handed over to the family after post mortem on Thursday itself.
 
 When contacted, 26-year-old Dr Ajay  , who has be en a resident doctor for a year at Sion Hospital's medicine department, said he didn't want to comment.
 
 Sion Hospital dean Dr   said, “There was no incident of assault. The doctor's collar was held. Yet an FIR has been made.“
 
 According to the FIR, Kale started shouting at Dr Athawale as soon as he pronounced his father, 52-year-old Prakash Kale, dead. “When I pronounced him dead, his son started talking loudly and started saying that he wasn't provided good care. I told him the patient had been brought in a serious condition and despite trying, he passed away,“ said the complaint filed by Dr Athawale. “The son continued shouting and held me by my collar and pushed me and lifted his hand to hit me. By this time, his brother intervened and the BMC security guards also came in,“ read the complaint.
 
 Police registered a case under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and also invoked a section of the Medical Services Act. “The accused, a Saki Naka resident, has not been arrested. We will arrest him soon,“ added an officer.
 
 The incident is significant as the BMC had, after a previous assault on a resident doctor in March, appointed commandos and installed an elaborate security system at its three teaching hospitals.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
