JALANDHAR: Manjit Singh GK and Manjinder Singh Sirsa were unanimously re-elected as president and general secretary respectively of the   ( ) on Thursday. 

 The new top executive body has also been formed with nine members from   (SAD) and one from the opposition – Tarwinder Singh Marwah. Owing allegiance to the  , Marwah was elected as an independent candidate.
 
 Earlier, the election of DSGMC office-bearers was scheduled for March 24, but was postponed. Sources claimed that GK got his say in the selection of office-bearers and executive members, after which SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal finalized the names.
 
 Though GK had claimed that celebrations of Delhi Fateh Diwas was the reason for postponing the election, sources in SAD claimed that he was not happy with the panel of office-bearers being finalized by the party top brass.
 
 Sources said a lot of discussions happened in the last four days to ensure that elections remained a smooth process as the party was not in a position to afford any controversy in the Delhi unit of SAD and DSGMC after its humiliating defeat in Punjab assembly elections, where was relegated to the third place. Getting re-elected as general secretary was crucial for Sirsa as he is contesting the Delhi assembly by-election from Rajouri Garden and it was important for his image among Sikh voters of the constituency.
 
 Rajouri Garden seat was vacated by Jarnail Singh of AAP to contest against SAD patriarch   from his traditional seat of Lambi in Punjab. While Badal retained his seat, Jarnail came up third in the polls.
 
 On Wednesday, on the eve of election of office-bearers two senior leaders of Delhi unit of SAD – Avtar Singh Hit and Onkar Singh Thapar – were given senior posts in the party as they were not included in the executive committee of DSGMC. Hit was taken in the core committee and Thapar was appointed senior vice-president of the party.
 
 Other DSGMC office-bearers elected on Thursday include: Former MLA Harmeet Singh Kalka as senior vice-president, Harmanjeet Singh as vice-president and Amarjeet Singh as joint secretary.
 
 Meanwhile, in the executive only those members were picked who had been elected at least for the second time in the representative body of the Sikhs in Delhi.
 
 GK was the face of the entire campaign of Shiromani Akali Dal during the DSGMC election and votes were sought in the name of his team. Faces and names of Badals were kept away from the campaign as the party candidates feared negative reaction to the support given by Sirsa's   to SAD in the Punjab elections.
 
