HYDERABAD: In a scathing attack on former home minister  , Union minister M   on Saturday said the Congress leader’s recent comments on Kashmir were “highly shocking, irresponsible and bordering on anti-nationalism”, and asked the Congress to clarify where it stood on the issue. However, Chidambaram brushed aside Naidu’s remarks claiming, “Nobody takes him (Naidu) seriously”. 

 Chidambaram, Naidu said, will do well to know that communal amity was well and thriving in Kashmir. Trashing the Congress leader’s comment that people of Kashmir are agitated, Venkaiah Naidu said, “Yesterday, on the occasion of Mahashivaratri, our Muslim brothers in the valley queued up and cleaned a temple, prepared one thousand greetings for the pandits. They said they did so that pujas can be performed at the temple without any sense of insecurity.” 
 
 Naidu was speaking at the state party headquarters where BJP leaders and workers were celebrating the party’s good showing in the civic body polls in Maharashtra. “The former home minister says Kashmir is lost. But the reality is thousands of people attended the funeral of a Lance Naik Ghulam Mohiuddin Rather at Shopian who died fighting terrorists. If Kashmir is lost and people are agitated, then how did they gather in large numbers to pay respects to the soldier who laid down his life for the country?” the minister asked. 
 
 Speaking at an event in Hyderabad on Friday, Chidambaram had reportedly said the current situation in Kashmir was grim and he was afraid a “series of mistakes were made” which were “almost too late” to correct now. “Now, the graph (killings in Kashmir), has started rising rapidly. In 2017, the graph is rising at an alarming rate. Even yesterday, people were killed. Unless we put a stop to this course of action, reverse course (of action), go back to talking to the people, go back engaging the people, I think Jammu & Kashmir maybe nearly lost. I don’t want to say lost, it is nearly lost,” Chidambaram was quoted by agencies as having said. 
 
 Chidambaram while referring to Article 370, had also said, “I think a series of mistakes have been made. And the last of it was 10 days ago. All that the Kashmiri people are asking is recognise that we join the union under the compact. No other princely state in India joined under a compact.” 
 
 Responding to Chidambaram, Naidu said, “The utterances of former Union home minister and senior Congress leader, P Chidambaram were highly shocking, irresponsible and bordering on anti-nationalism. It is all the more reprehensible because he was aformer home minister and is well acquainted with the complexities involved in tackling insurgency. Congress should explain whether it is in agreement with Shri Chidambaram’s views or not.” 
 
 “His irresponsible statement is tantamount to promoting separatism and will be music to the ears of our neighbour, which is sponsoring, funding and abetting terrorism from across the border. He should remember that Pakistan is also trying to internationalise the Kashmir issue,” Naidu said. 
 
 Chidambaram had also criticised the recent remark of Army chief Gen Bipin Rawat that anyone interfering with security operations will be treated as “over ground workers of the terrorists”. “That’s, I think, thoughtless, intemperate words,” Chidambaram had said. 
 
 Referring to that statement, Naidu asked, “Where do Congress’ sympathies lie? With India, the forces fighting for the country or with separatists? All that the army chief said that anyone who supports militants will be considered as militants too.”
 
