Bengaluru:   has led a $10 million Series B round in Pune-based AgroStar, its first investment in the agritech space. The round also saw participation from existing investors   and Aavishkaar. A year and a half ago, the mobile-commerce firm that sells agricultural inputs had raised $4 million in a round led by IDG Ventures

 Started in 2013 by brothers Shardul Sheth and Sitanshu Sheth, AgroStar is a platform that provides agronomy solutions to farmers and allows them to place an order from pesticides to fertilizers by simply giving a missed call or downloading the mobile app. The call centre follows up with farmers on their requirements and the products are shipped from their warehouses directly to the farmers' doorsteps through state transport systems or courier services.
 
 India has over 100 million farmers who face challenges ranging from sub-standard products, limited access to products and the lack of technical know-how to grow their crop that has led to low farm productivity. At the heart of AgroStar's technology is providing real-time solutions to farmers by partnering with more than 150 companies and agri input providers like DuPont and  . It also has an Android app with regional language interfaces. 
 
 AgroStar says it has over 10 lakh farmers on its platform, in Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan. Shardul Sheth said that the company will use the funds to expand its presence to a few more states including Madhya Pradesh, the Punjab-Haryana belt, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, and hire in key positions including a chief technology officer, and head of customer experience and marketing.
 
 Sheth, who previously worked with US-based consumer electronics company Best Buy, said with increasing smartphone penetration, the platform has seen almost 1 lakh app downloads. “The smartphone presence has been growing among the farmers. Around 35% of our customer base now has a smartphone. Around 1 lakh farmers have been using apps to order. They can see the pictures of the products clearly on the app which further pushes the base for us,” he said. AgroStar clocks 5,000-7,000 transactions daily and receives 2 lakh missed calls from farmers every month.
 
 Prashanth Prakash, partner in   India, said, "We have always been interested in B2B platforms and we consider these farmers as small businessmen. This is a digital platform that is catering to a different business that is multi-geographical and multi-lingual. We know farmers are adapting to the digital platform faster than before. There is a huge scope to implement technology to solve the inherent problems faced by farmers in India. In a mobile first country like India, AgroStar has clearly demonstrated that farmers in India are ready to adapt the latest in technology that can make their lives simpler and improve their productivity."
 
 The agricultural technology space has seen a lot interest from the investor community. In January, RML AgTech, which provides smart farming solutions, raised $4 million from private equity firm Ivy Capital. Last week, agri-tech startup Paalak, which sources fresh farm produce from farmers and supplies to consumers, raised a seed round from angel investors.
 
 
