GURGAON: The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has issued a notice to the developer of   Apartment to stop the ongoing   inside the society premises and file a reply and submit the approved building plan before May 18.

 The notice was issued following complaints from residents raising their concern over construction being carried out on the premises by the developers which is not in keeping with the approved plan.
 
 Aloha Apartment, a residential group housing project in Gurgaon’s Sector 57, is being constructed by  , earlier known as AEZ Infratech.
 
 Shrey Aeren, from ADTV Communication, denied the allegation saying that all the construction was according to the approved plan. “All the construction is being done according to the approved plan. If anyone has a doubt they can come to us and we will be happy to show the documents.”
 
 Aeren said they were preparing a reply to be submitted to DTCP. “The construction is for the community centre, according to the approved plan and it is spread across towers D4, D5 to D6,” Aeren said, adding they would submit all the documents to the department.
 
 According to an official of DTCP, the department had received complaints about construction in the stilt area of Tower B-4 for converting the said stilt area into shops for commercial use, which is in violation of the approved plan.
 
 “We will check the approved plan, till then a direction has been issued to stop all construction activities,” district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said, adding that they have written to the head joffice to find out the status of the occupation certificate of the towers.
 
 K G Agrawal, resident of Aloha, said construction material was moved inside the premises without the knowledge of the RWA before the developer started construction. “We found the construction suspicious following complaints made to DTCP,”   said.
 
 Suresh Kaparia, another resident, alleged that construction was not like the community centre. “They are constructing something which is not in the approved plan,” Kaparia said, adding that the condition of the towers, where people are living, is not very good. 
 
 
