THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A death has ripped apart a family, like a   being torn into shreds. A father who had scheduled his flight back to Qatar in January never took that flight. He had to receive the body of his son and bury him. He has quit his well-paid job. Outside the   on Thursday, he sat in a corner, loosely gripping the phone that rang without break.

  A mother lay swaddled in a blanket on a cot by the window of  . She stared blankly at the intravenous fluid that slowly dripped along the tube. A sister, left with her grand mother, waited for her parents at her home, miles away from the hospital. She wouldn't eat anything, nor would her parents.
 
 “We were such a happy family. I had a   in Qatar and we had dreams for our kids. This year everything just vanished. We had waited for five years after our marriage before we had him,“ says Asokan. Three months into the death of their son Jishnu Pranoy, Asokan and Mahija are getting weaker day by day. “We haven't slept since the day when they rang up to tell us that our kid had ended his life. I have left my job. What is the point?“ Their relatives hardly try to console him. “When something like this happens to a perfect family, what are we supposed to tell them,“ one of them asks. On January 6, Mahija was the one to answer the call from college authorities who told her that Jishnu had committed suicide. “They asked us to come to the hospital.She has never gotten over that moment when she heard that her son was no more,“ says Asokan.
 
 They were expecting him back home by January second week after examinations and they were making plans before Asokan would return to Qatar. Mahija says she doesn't remember even once when he actually told her that something was wrong. “Once he was asked to shave and turn up in the class, apart from that he never told me about any problem,“ says Mahija.
 
 A day after police dragged and shoved amid crowd, Mahija is too weak even to raise her head. She shuts her eyes tight as people around talk about how the state is discussing Mahija and her son. She struggles to pay attention, whenever there is a flurry of visitors.
 
 She says she feels like burning from inside. “You can't find any injury on my body , but I feel like it's burning with pain after being pushed and dragged around,“ she says. Mahija turns away her head and closes her eyes tightly when she is asked if she expects the chief minister to come and meet her.
 
