GURUGRAM: With a commitment to keep of filing the chargesheet into murder of Class II student Pradhyumn Thakur within seven days, the police put prime accused   through a potency test to build a legally tight case amid claims by his family that he is being framed.

 Kumar, according to the police, has told them he was stimulating himself in the washroom of  , Bhondsi, when the boy walked in, and he attacked him with a knife he had carried to wash. Police, however, suspect he tried to sexually assault the boy when he walked into the washroom and killed him when he resisted. Pradhyumn’s autopsy report has said he wasn’t sexually assaulted.
 
 “The accused’s family is claiming he is not capable of assaulting any child. But this test is yet another evidence of his crime. The potency test was done at Sohna and the test certified Ashok to be potent. A DNA will also be done on Ashok. Samples will be sent to the Foresnic Science Laboratory, Madhuban,” said DCP (south) Ashok Bakshi, who is heading the special investigation team (SIT) that is probing the murder.
 
 Bakshi also said police had the right man, dismissing the speculation — including claims by Pradhyumn’s family that the bus conductor could have been turned into a “scapegoat” — that the murder may have been committed by someone else. “We have thoroughly questioned Ashok and reconstructed the crime scene several times. Talk about him being a scapegoat or any other accused being there are rumours. Ashok is the only accused and we nabbed him after an efficient investigation,” he said.
 
 In its investigation into negligence by the school, police have found that the former principal of the school had left as the management paid no heed to what she asked for. “Investigating the role of the principal in providing security to the students, we found she did not have much say or power. The earlier principal too demanded certain things but did not get it,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Both Neerja Batra, the principal suspended after Friday’s murder, and former principal Rakhi Verma were asked to join the investigation on Tuesday, as were two non-teaching staff of the Bhondsi school — a guard and a woman attendant. “We spoke to both principals and found major lapses in the working of the management on students’ security. Some more accused responsible for lapses in the school will be arrested soon. A team has been dispatched to Kerala in the case,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said.
 
 Sources revealed a high-level meeting was called by the Ryan school management in Delhi, where all the principals of Gurgaon and Faridadabad schools took part. Sources said the school management has given additional charge of the Bhondsi campus to the principal of the Faridabad branch.
 
 
