CHANDIGARH: With the   riding over its financial crisis for the period 2017-18, chances of some of the long-pending projects finally seeing the light of the day have brightened. Financial crunch over the last few years has stalled a number of projects worth Rs 235 crore. TOI takes a look at the projects which struggling to be implemented: 

 66KV Grid Sub-Station
 
 The university currently has 11KV sub-stations and there are more than 78 teaching and research departments in the University for which electricity connections have been provided. Since with the installation of various sophisticated research equipments, the load overall has increased significantly, the existing substations are incapable of meeting the requirements. Moreover, as per   commission   guidelines where the connected electric load exceeds 5 MW in any organization, it is mandatory to install a 66KV substation with a single point metering system. The total projected cost of this project is Rs 30.70 crore but in the absence of funds, the varsity is unable to set up a 66KV grid sub-station. 
 
 University campus extension at Sarangpur
 
 The UT administration in 2014 had earmarked 85 acres of land for the development of a satellite campus for the Panjab University. But the university needs funds to start work. The total projected cost of developing this satellite campus is Rs 204.75 crore. The plan for the Sarangpur campus includes a transit accommodation for faculty and students. The varsity had communicated to the UT administration that the varsity campus in Sarangpur would require hostels, a science auditorium apart from the transit accommodation. Besides the residential area, the varsity also planned to set up a sports complex. However, lack of funds is an impediment. 
 
 The university has also apprised the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) about these two pending development projects. Unfortunately, the university does not get any annual development grant from the government since it is not a central university. 
 
 Auditorium
 
 The construction of a multipurpose auditorium in the Sector 25 campus started in 2012. However, work is not complete yet. The project was estimated at a cost of around Rs 35 crore in 2009. But the cost doubled in 2015 to Rs 65 crore. The main hall of the auditorium would have a seating capacity of 2,500 people on the ground floor. Moreover, the agenda regarding the allocation of Rs 23.28 crore for the completion of the under construction multipurpose auditorium in the south campus will be tabled in the BoF meeting on August 1. Besides the main auditorium, plans are afoot to set up three seminar halls with a capacity from 130 to 600 people each. The hall includes the dining area, parking area, power back up, air-conditioned plant, elevators, firefighting system and others.
 
 “We have set a September deadline for the auditorium project and the issue of allocation of an amount of Rs 23 lakh will also be tabled in the   meeting on August 1. Moreover, now since the session has begun, we will try to get funds for setting up the 66KV substation and the project will be our priority,” said dean student welfare ( ) Prof Emanual Nahar.
 
 Scrapped project
 
 The project of a 100-bed Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences was scrapped because of budget constraints. The estimated cost was around Rs 150 crore. Besides this, the University was also unable to fill up the vacant posts of the non-teaching staff for the hospital.
 
 Budget estimate for satellite campus at Sarngpur 
 
 Land (compound wall upto 3 ft height, leveling of the ground, laying internal roads, water supply lines, sewerage lines and others: Rs 29.95 crore
 
 Advanced centres in inter-disciplinary sciences building: Rs 65.03 crore
 
 Velodrome, athletic track/facility: Rs 53.62 crore
 
 Academic staff college-cum-accreditation centre: Rs 13.90 crore
 
 100 unit of residential accommodation for revised scheme: Rs 42.25 crore
 
 66 KV Grid Substation at PU campus, 66 KV incoming underground cables from 66 kV substation sectors 12, 66 KV Grid substation at PU campus and the cost of 66 KV bay extension at 66 KV grid substation sector 12: Rs 15.40 crore
 
 Up gradation of electricity distribution system feeding PU building after the power connection is released on 66 KV lines: Rs 1.50 crore
 
 Provision of the 11 KV indoor substation including the cost of building: Rs 5 crore
 
 Security deposited with electricity department: Rs 1 crore
 
 Amount to be deposited with electricity department for taking over of the existing infrastructure (LT, HT lines, Substations and others: Rs 7.80 crore
 
