Though strong advocates of electoral reforms, political parties in Bengal on Wednes day greeted with scepticism finance minister  's Budget proposal to cap cash donations to a political party by individuals to Rs 2,000.

 Trinamool dubbed it “big talk“. The party's national spokesperson   said, “These are pure gimmicks. Every Trinamool poll manifesto since its formation in 1998 has demanded electoral reforms. We need substantial measures. A party that has already picked up billions from unknown sources should stop preaching about electoral reforms.“
 
 CPM too was caustic. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the move would “open a plethora of ways“ in which black money will come into play. “A person can donate Rs 2,000 in cash and arrange for hundreds of buses for a rally of a political party. Someone can arrange food packets, like they did during the Prime Minister's recent rally in Lucknow. No cash is donated in this. How do you account for this expense?“ Pointing out that there was no limit on poll expenditure by a party, but only on the candidates, Yechury said, “Since there is no ceiling on a party's poll expenses, a party can hire 1,000 helicopters for the election campaign. But the question is, where is this money coming from?“ Political analyst Amulya Ganguli said that lowering the cash limit may make political funding even less transparent than before. “This is an unrealistic attempt to curb black money in political funding. I think that larger sums will now remain unannounced,“ Ganguli told agencies. He said that parties which earlier disclosed a larger part of their funding, will not do that now.
 
 The parties, however, are not antagonistic to reforms altogether. In August, 2016, a Trinamool MP told the Rajya Sabha, “Unregulated, undisclosed and opaque political funding can threaten the very fabric of democracy and governance. While a small, resource-strapped political party may struggle to make ends meet, the parties receiving crores of black money have an undue advantage.“ Much before it, in May 2014, chief minister   said, “Electoral reform will be our first priority if a Trinamool-led government is formed at the Centre. We believe that to reach the goal of corruption-free politics, the time has come to adopt government funding of elections, which is already functioning in many nations of the world.“
 
 CPM isn't divorced to this line of thinking either. Former Lok Sabha speaker Somnath Chatterjee, then a CPM MP, had in 1998-99 favoured restrictions being placed upon ostentatious expenditure during elections, including cut-outs, banners, arches and even public meetings. He supported the idea put forth by the 1998 Inderjit Gupta Committee Report in creating a state (election) fund with a Rs 600 crore reserve.
 
 But the Law Commission of India, in a 2015 report, differed from the state funding aspect. It had concluded: “A quick perusal of the recommendations of various committees on state funding of polls and comparative provisions makes it clear that complete public funding of elections or political parties in India is not a practical option; instead, indirect state subsidy is a better alternative.“
 
