JAIPUR: In a bid to provide relief for  ,   have agreed to provide   to patients suffering from  , according to the health department.

 This will strengthen facilities for swine flu testing and treatment. Health minister Kalicharan Saraf said the department has roped in private hospitals and laboratories to provide free diagnostic tests to patients with influenza-like diseases.
 
 A meeting was held at the health directorate, headed by Saraf, in which representatives of private hospitals and laboratories participated on Friday evening.
 
 “We have constituted a three-member committee which will monitor private hospitals and laboratories to ensure that they are providing free tests to patients suffering from swine flu-like symptoms,” Saraf told TOI.
 
 The three-member committee consists of an administration officer, an official of the health department and one from the medical education department.
 
 In the state, at least 1,900 persons have already tested positive for swine flu so far this year, with about 150 deaths.
 
 Saraf said that the department would provide free swine flu medicines to all private hospitals just as they were providing medicines and syrups for treating flu to government hospitals.
 
 Moreover, he directed all private hospitals to immediately inform the health department if any patient with swine flu-like symptoms tests positive for H1N1 influenza.
 
 The health department officials will then inspect the neighbouring areas of the patient who tested positive for swine flu and see if there are any other people suffering from swine flu-like symptoms. This will help the health department to provide treatment to patients on time and prevent mortality due to swine flu.
 
 The minister has also directed all drug stores to put a notice board mentioning the stock available of medicines for treating swine flu.
 
 Moreover, private hospitals have been asked to reserve beds for swine flu patients in the ICU and create a separate isolation ward for such patients.
 
 Meanwhile, on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday to be celebrated on Sunday, the health department will organise 41 free health camps in the city from 9am to 12 noon. Along with free treatment, patients will be given free medicines too. “We will distribute fruits to patients at SMS Hospital on Sunday to celebrate the PM’s birthday,” Saraf said.
 
 
