PUNE: Seema Gurjar, a resident of the Kondhwa area, is totally unfazed by the municipal corporation elections. Ten years in the city, she is still not a voter. Reason: the tedious procedure to register herself as a voter.

 “I tried registering a couple of times but even after submitting the forms, my name did not figure in the list. So, I gave up after two attempts,” says this potential voter.
 
 She wants to exercise her franchise but cannot due to administrative procedures.
 
 Like Gurjar, Mallika Das, a maid working in the city for the past 20 years, has not registered herself as a voter because the process involves cancelling her voter ID card back in Kolkata.
 
 “Every time I approached the corporator to help me with the process, I was asked to get a whole lot of documents,” says Das.
 
 Rajashri Dongre, who turned 18 last month and married on February 21, has not registered herself in the voters’ list because she is unaware about the process.
 
 Whether it is the tedious process of voting or the documentation or lack of awareness, voters’ registration still remains an issue with the population who stayed away from the voting process on Tuesday.
 
 To address these issues, Pune collector Saurabh Rao told TOI that an online registration process for the first-time voters could be considered if it was linked with the Aadhaar card like many other processes. But certain changes in the Registration of Electors Rules, 1960 would be necessary with the Section 21 strictly pointing out that the forms have to be submitted to the officer directly.
 
 “We can check for the best process enabling the administration to confirm the person’s identity by linking the voter registration form to his/her Aadhaar number online and then calling the person for further confirmation. But this is possible with some changes in the legal process,” said Rao, not completely ruling out the process that could simplify things.
 
 With Pune being an IT hub, many techies coming here for work want to register themselves as voters but hesitate because of the cumbersome process. Sujal Nagpal, a techie from Delhi staying in Pune for the past 12 years, says, “If the process is simplified, she would want to register herself as a voter online with adequate proof to be attached.”
 
 Sreeja Rao, another techie points out, that when the   (SEC) has allowed online nomination for candidates contesting the polls, it can do so for registering the first-time voters as well.
 
 “This will surely increase the number of authentic voters and, in turn, it would be easier for the administration to verify the voters. The same can be done for deletion of names from the list,” she says.
 
 The techies also suggest that if a private firm is roped in as a consultant, it can help the administration in the process because there is dearth of staff in the election department at present.
 
 Manasi Phadke, the project coordinator of the  , feels that there should be a dedicated office of the state election commission in all districts to carry out the purification of electoral rolls. “The addition and deletion of names is a tedious process and more officials can help out in it,” she says.
 
