Finding stardom is tough but handling all the fame and pressure that comes with it is tougher.   would attest to that. Workwise, he has several big projects lined up including his Tamil debut; but on the personal front the actor now has to think twice before even cracking a joke or reacting to a social issue. The actor takes some time off his hectic schedule to discuss how he handles stardom, how he feels his career is progressing and his upcoming film  .
 
 
 I think the film’s casting is bang on – be it Wamiqa or Renji Panicker sir, who plays my character’s dad in the film. There isn’t anyone better to play the characters than those who are cast in the film; and I am not talking about me.
  
 And Wamiqa an amazing actress. She speaks only one line of Malayalam in the movie – Ellavarkum Namaskaram. So, the plus for her was that she speaks in her mother tongue, Hindi, and also English in Godha. But if you cast her in a Malayalam movie next, she could easily lip sync and get into the character. She’s an easy person to work with. Credit is also due to director Basil, who is very chilled out and that also reflected on how everyone performed in the movie.
  
 
 
 I play a son who couldn’t live up to the expectations of his father. He has his own frustrations and the father would have expected way more than what he capable of. And yet they work together for a common goal – wrestling, which is the movie’s backbone. But the story is told through humour. It has romance, friendships and also the relationship between a father and son, parents – so you can’t really box it into one particular genre. It is a sports comedy, romcom and family drama all rolled into one.
  
 
 Arun is a close friend. When he narrated the script to me, I found it different in terms of making and it was also something which has not been attempted in Malayalam cinema before. He is extremely insistent on getting exactly what he wants from his actors and sometimes we have done several takes to just get an expression right. We are shooting in digital cameras now, so we can have as many takes as we want.
  
 
 I first met Basil when he came to narrate the story of Godha, and by the end of the movie we became good friends. I think the directors chose me for their films because their characters needed someone like me. The onus is always on the actor to create a comfort level not just with the director but with everyone in the team. Being comfortable will always have an impact on your performance, so you will have to create a rapport. All it takes is to treat everyone equally and well.
  
 
 It might. I have always tried to be nice to people. That said, I am a human being and if people wilfully irritate me, I give it back, tit for tat. I am a decent person but I am not a saint. Those who know me well cannot hate me; they have never blamed me nor stopped supporting me. For someone who doesn’t know me personally, it might be easier to misunderstand me. But it’s just a matter of time for them to change that perception.
  
 
 
 I don’t believe I am so talentless that anyone can sideline me. I never had that insecurity. Sometimes you feel but it becomes a problem only when you overthink it and get bothered about it. Currently, I have enough projects for the next two years. No one can take that away from me.
  
 Also, in the last four years many actors have come into the industry but those who are talented are still here. Every year, close to 150 movies are released here and frankly there’s space for even more male leads. The industry is growing – in terms of budget, revenue and quality. The truth is that you now need more people to run the industry.
  
 
 When you think about success, you have this joy-filled image. But behind that, there are struggles, pressure and even backstabbing. I have never felt like a star. I don’t think I have achieved anything to be honest. But with success, how the people around are perceiving me is changing. For instance, I like to pull others’ legs. But when I do that now like I did four years ago, people take offense, saying I have become contemptuous, now that I’m a star.
 So, it’s not me who has changed but the perception of others towards me. That’s what I have difficulty handling.
  
 
 I can handle the work that comes with being an established actor. If I have to survive as an actor now, I need to have huge commercial hits; not just average ones. That might make many actors more competitive, but my priority will always be on doing quality films.
  
 
 People should know the truth. There’s this misconception that only when you talk in a polished and diplomatic manner, can you survive in this industry. But when you lie, you also have to have a great memory to be able to repeat that lie everywhere. When you say the truth, you don’t have that problem.
  
 
 
 There had been instances where many tried to crucify me for my views. When people get it directly from my mouth, they don’t have a problem. But when I talk through the media, whatever I say is often twisted or misinterpreted. So, now I think twice before I react.
 I don’t think we can bring about change through social media. I don’t write a post and expect a revolution to happen the next morning. But I do hope at least a section of people will get what I say. But here, people just want to vilify each other. Facebook is filled with negativity. I now use the network only for the promotion of my movies. I will voice my opinion on such issues again the day people start to understand what I am trying to convey, in its true sense.
  
 
 That happened coincidentally. The films after these are not love stories. I don’t believe in achieving a tag and clinging to it for a long time. Both the films are poles apart in terms of my characters and also the plot. That’s also why I have selected the films. 
 
