NEW DELHI: Furious at the lackadaisical attitude of states in filing responses to petitions raising important public interest issues, Chief Justice   thundered on Monday, "Is this a joke court or the  ?" 

 The CJI's comment came while hearing the first of three matters, which were public interest litigations. The SC had sought state governments' response on the first case -- a PIL by NGO 'Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti' -- on December 9, 2013. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate   told the court that though the NGO had complained about untreated effluent from cities and towns being discharged into rivers to pollute them beyond repair, many states had not bothered to file their responses.
 
 The first in the firing line was Samajwadi Party-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The CJI asked the UP counsel, "Why no response till date? Is it a joke or something?" But he soon realised that replies had not come from BJP-ruled Haryana and  , Trinamool Congress-ruled  , Left-ruled Kerala, AAP-ruled Delhi and Congress-ruled Karnataka and  .
 
 "Is this some kind of game the states are playing with the Supreme Court?" the CJI asked. The court told the erring states to file their responses in four weeks failing which their environment secretary would remain present in court.
 
 The second case was another PIL by an NGO dealing with lacunae in mid-day meal schemes implemented in states.As the CJI-headed bench was readying for hearing on the important issue, the NGO's counsel sought adjournment on the ground that its advocate was unavailable for a personal reason from January 9 to January 23. The CJI flew into a rage. "Is this a joke court or the Supreme Court?" he asked. 
 
 "It is such an important PIL that you made us call all the states. They are represented before us. But you are not represented.," Justice Khehar said. The very next case was another PIL by yet another NGO challenging the Centre's decision to relax the rule governing installation of speed governors. Yet again, the court found that many states had not filed responses. The CJI said, "Is this some panchayat going on here that the states are not serious?" The court noted that certain defaulting states had been barred from filing their responses.
 
 An hour later, the court gave a patient hearing to another petitioner who argued in person seeking complete ban on cow slaughter. But it discovered that this petitioner had been filing repeated petitions on the same issue since 2006 and that the court had dismissed his petition in August 2007 after dealing with his contentions. The SC resisted its preliminary inclination to impose cost on this chronic PIL petitioner. But it asked him to deposit Rs 50,000 for every petition he filed again on the same issue with the understanding that this money would be forfeited if his petition got dismissed.
 
 Another PIL petitioner, an advocate, sought regulation on feeding pigeons and claimed that it cost the nation five lakh tonnes of foodgrain every year. The court inquired from him and found no basis for making such a claim. It threatened him with a cost of Rs 5 lakh but let him go finding that he had erred for the first time.
 
 
