NAGPUR: The domestic help, engaged for almost a decade time at the rented apartment of  , seemed to have turned overnight villain after having enjoyed a sound image of an honest worker.  , aged about 50 years, had to remain present at Tehsil police station on Tuesday and also a day ago after being named as prime suspect in   case. Aziz looks after business of beetelnut and a shop belonging to his owner who stays in Kerala. 

 Aziz, who lodged a complaint of theft a day ago, has contradicted before police claiming that Suman had always ensured returning cash found in the pockets of the attires handed over to her for washing. Suman had been dutifully handing him back cash even when the sum had been as much as Rs5,000 or Rs6,000 left behind in the pockets. 
 
 Aziz, in his complaint, stated that he had brought cash Rs10 lakhs from his office which were in the denominations of Rs2,000. The cash was collected in the office from the transactions over a period of time. On the day of incident, he as usual had handed over office keys to Dayaluram Pal, who is a labourer at his office, to open the shop. The cash was kept with the keys in the same bag kept in the almirah. Aziz said that he had felt the heaviness of the bag in which the cash was kept from which he had assumed that the cash must be intact inside it.
 
 It was when Aziz had stepped inside the bathroom for bath that Suman was working in the room. She had left before Aziz had finished taking bath. Aziz was left stunned while leaving for office as the cash was not in the bag any more. After searching elsewhere in the room and also inquiring with other employees, Aziz approached police naming Suman as his prime suspect. 
 
 The cops from Tehsil police station learnt to have immediately brought Suman for questioning to police station after lodging the FIR. She was also repeatedly quizzed but cops have found nothing doubtful about her so far. Sources from Tehsil police station said that the complainant too is now being interrogated after his version raised doubts.
 
