JAIPUR:   within the state BJP got murkier on Saturday with state cabinet ministers, including   and former Union minister of state and MP  , releasing a signed statement against rebel BJP MLA  .

 The statement comes in support of chief minister  , against whom Tiwari had made some serious allegations in his reply to the notice sent by the ruling party’s central disciplinary committee. Counter-allegations to those made by the rebel MLA came on Saturday by the senior members, who claimed that despite the `conspiracies’ hatched by Tiwari, BJP in the state would return to power under the leadership of chief minister Vasundhara Raje. 
 
 Lashing out at Tiwari, state’s parliamentary affairs minister, who on several occasion has defended the CM, said that the Sanganer MLA is too complacent. ``Tiwari considers himself larger than the party. He is living in a fool’s paradise,’’ said Rathore. He alleged that dejected over not being given a berth in the cabinet, Tiwari has waged war against the party organistion. ``He is chopping off the branch he has been sitting on for years,’’ said Rathore.
 
 Tiwari, in his reply, had alleged that Raje, in 2014, had made all efforts and staged a drama to ensure no MP from the state agrees to be a minister in PM’s team. He had alleged that she had done this for `a selfish reason’ and later, deliberately got an old case reopened against Nihalchand Meghwal, who was the only one to be included as a minister of state.
 
 Meghwal on Saturday refuted Tiwari’s charges and claimed Raje had supported him. ``Tiwari should not shoot off my shoulders. His charges are false. Raje, along with all the 25 MPs of the state, had not only attended the PM’s swearing-in ceremony but also congratulated him,’’ said Meghwal.
 
 Social justice and empowerment Arun Chaturvedi claimed that Tiwari was participating in anti-party activities behind the banner of his organisation `Deendayal Vahini’. “Obsessed with his ego and one-upmanship, he fails to realise the value of organisation and its ideology.’’ said
 
 Health minister Kalicharan Saraf claimed that that Tiwari, a habitual offender, had conspired against former vice-president Bharion Singh Shekhawat. ``Despite the fact that Tiwari had badly lost the 1998 assembly elections from Chomu, Raje gave him a ticket for a safe-seat like Sanganer in 2003. Now that she did not make him a minister, he does not like her,’’ he said. 
 
 State party president Ashok Parnami, while interacting with the media persons on Saturday, claimed that futile attempts had been made to initiate a dialogue with Tiwari before handing him a notice. ``Now that a notice has been served, it is for the central disciplinary committee to take a decision,’’ he said. 
 
 ‘CM forced ministers for statements’: Retaliating to the statements made by the ministers, rebel BJP MLA Ghanshyam Tiwari claimed that the ministers had been forced to give a statement against him. “They need to save their berths in the cabinet. The CM has forced them to make a statement. If by doing so, they can save their positions, I will only be glad,’’ said Tiwari.
 
