NEW DELHI: Air travellers were a puzzled lot on Friday morning. Thanks to the beginning of a long weekend, they predictably saw massive rush at India’s busiest airports. But amid that chaos, they found to their surprise   (CISF) putting “security checked” stamps on their  . This, a day after the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) had said this practice will be discontinued at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Cochin airports.

 TOI had in its Friday edition front-paged the CISF-BCAS tussle on this issue due to which stamping is unlikely to stop in a hurry. While finding out the cause of this disagreement, it has now emerged that the two agencies have locked horns earlier too. The seeds of the same lie in the dispute between their parent ministries – aviation (BCAS) and home (CISF) — over who should be in charge of aviation security.
 
 “Baggage stamps have a small number which state the counter where the same was X-rayed. The idea is to trace who was the person who screened the same if it is later found that the bag had something dangerous in it. Now 100% CCTV coverage can do the same job. If a cabin bag is found to have something dangerous in it later on, the CCTV footage can show who went wrong in screening,” said a person while explaining the dispute between the two agencies.
 
 CISF and BCAS had carried out week-long no hand bag stamping trials at Indian airports for domestic flyers last December. Of these 12 places, BCAS felt airports at all metros (except Chennai), Ahmedabad and Chennai had adequate CCTV coverage at security check point areas to do away with stamping and accordingly issued the order on Thursday. 
 
 CISF, which also favours doing away with stamping, feels that all the 12 airports still need some work regarding adequate CCTV coverage and on some other points before it can end this practice. BCAS’ contention is that stamping does not add value to quality of checks but CISF says a lot more needs to be done to do away with that.
 
 At the heart of this tussle lies the belief of the home ministry (MHA) that aviation authorities must focus on safe flying — meaning ensure overall safety of flight operations per se — while overall security must be within its domain. For many years, MHA has been asking ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) to cede administrative control over BCAS — which is headed by an IPS official.
 
 Due to this, the aviation ministry itself keeps having issues with BCAS as it is headed by senior IPS officials. BCAS had a year or two back directed there will be no separate queues for security checks which had to be later overturned by the MoCA as business and first class flyers have dedicated queues.
 
 Apart from MoCA-BCAS tussle, very often orders of BCAS are not heeded to by CISF. For instance, BCAS had long back said personal electronic devices with non-detachable batteries need not be pulled out of hand bags for being screened separately at X-ray counters — a practice followed globally. But this order is yet to be implemented at Indian airports.
 
 On Thursday with BCAS-CISF tussle hotting up over stamping issue, no senior official of these agencies and MoCA spoke on how and when will the latest tussle be resolved. Passengers, meanwhile, can only hope that our two premier agencies agree to bury their differences in the interest of the flyer. 
 
