AJMER: JLN   doctors are working hard to save vision of seven patients who had undergone cataract surgeries two days ago at Government Amrit Kaur Hospital of Beawar, but due to complications, they complained of diminishing vision, redness in eyes and swelling.

 The health department has initiated an inquiry into this matter. Preliminary, it is suspected that infection in the operation theatre might be the reason for complications. It is not the first such incident in Beawar's government hospital. A similar case was reported fifteen days ago, when 15 patients who had undergone eye operations were also referred to JLN Hospital in  . Their condition is improving now.
 
 Among the patients who complained of infection and pain after the surgery were   of Nagelav village of Pisanghan, Ma dan Raj from Shahpura Colony, Koyala Devi of Kalupura, Shanker Ram from Saradhana, Karmi Rawat of Masuda Road, Prabhu Singh of Rayatakheda, Hari Meharat and   village.
 
 The doctors of JLN Hospital's department of ophthalmology are providing patients with treatment and antibiotic drugs. “There was irritation and water oozing out of my eyes and there was no sight,“ said a patient, expressing fear of going blind.
 
 “We found that there was infection and chances of saving the vision are limited,“ said a doctor in JLN Hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, Beawar hospital's principal medical officer Dr MK Jain said that he has informed the department about this incident and referred all the patients to Ajmer.
 
 Dr Jain said, “A team of microbiology department from Ajmer's Medical College collected swab samples from the hospital. Also, a committee has also been formed to investigate into the matter under health department's joint director. The patients had cataract. The doctors operated them. But, they complained of swelling in ey es, redness and diminishing vision. Samples of drugs and lenses used in operations have also been taken. At present we cannot say about cause of complications in patients after surgeries. Only after we receive reports, we will be able to reach to the conclusion.“
 
 Meanwhile, a team of medical and health department found lack of sanitation of OT (Operation Theatre) of Beawer hospital and no proper guidelines were maintained before using the theatre, “The problem was that doctors wanted to finish the operation early and they made lines of operation without cleaning the OT again“ said source.
 
 The department formed a team of three doctors to enquire this matter but they send specialist to save the patients, “We have informed the state Headquarters and initiated a probe but our preference is to save patients“ said official of the medical and health department.
 
