High-waisted cropped pants and trousers have been a rage of late and we caught the ruffled waistline or the   as it is popularly known, at multiple fashion shows this season. Paperbag waists actually have an elongating effect and can flatter your look. 

 
 
 The fabric is gathered just above the waist and then the waistline is cinched in tight, thereby having some fabric coming out in a ruffle at the top.
 
 
 
 Fashion designer   says, “Since paperbag pants/skirts are usually loose and baggy, you could pair them with a crop top or with something that is very fitted on the top in order to balance the look.” She also suggests that tucking in the top is not really going to nail the style, unless it is really fitted. So even a slightly baggy top would look unflattering.
 
 Fashion designer   says, “You could pair a boxy crop shirt with drawstring paperbag waist Bermuda or boxer shorts. This look would work well for a laidback weekend gateway.”   adds, “Since the paperbag waist pants are slightly baggy, you must avoid oversize with oversize — it just adds to a weird volume look and makes one look extremely bulky.”
 If you have wide hips it is ideal to avoid wearing paperbag waist pants. “Rather, you should opt for a full skirt if you have a pear-shaped body,” says Aniket.
 
 Designers Reshma and   state, “When sporting this trend, one must keep the top neat and slim. Ideally, one solid colour is best to balance the crushed waist and the voluminous skirt.” Another thing to keep in mind is not to layer the look. Rocky Star suggests, “Layering adds unnecessary volume. Avoid pairing loose shirts with these skirts. Instead, opt for well-fitted sleeveless tops or tops with tight-fitted sleeves.”
 
 
 
 Designers say that this style needs a thin belt or just a rope to cinch in the waist. The structure of the pant needs to remain your hero and an attention-grabbing belt might just take it away. 
 High heels are a must with this silhouette. If you are sporting cropped pants you could also go in for embellished white pumps or sneakers.
 
 
 
 “It’s vital to remember to have the proportion right. The flare should be flattering and not overwhelming. Also, it’s nice to set off the volume by a snug top so that the silhouette looks balanced and not grumpy,” says fashion designer  . Designer Rocky Star adds, “These skirts are baggy and voluminous waist down, hence it is essential to wear it exactly at the waist or a little higher to add shape.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
