KOLKATA: Candidates of the   ( ) are   regarding   to be allowed inside the   even as they prepare for the test scheduled on Sunday.

 The rules stipulate that any violation of the instructions will lead to disciplinary action, including no entry into the examination centre and ban from future examinations. Such is the confusion regarding instructions that several candidates have even bought a new set of dress and slippers rather than take their chances. Some have doubts if they will be prohibited from taking the test if their photos don’t match the specifications.
 
 According to NEET guidelines, examinees are allowed to wear light coloured clothes with half sleeves with salwars or trousers. There should be no big buttons, brooch or badge. Candidates will only be allowed to wear slippers and sandals with low heels. Covered shoes are banned.
 
 “I had to purchase a new pair of slippers for my daughter since no covered shoes are allowed. I also bought leggings in light colour for her. It seems like the examination centres will be turned into battlefields. Instead of enhancing security, they are eliminating necessary items which can be taken inside the examination centre,” said Sukanta Chakraborty, father of NEET aspirant Anisha. 
 
 “The valid photo ID card can’t be taken inside the examination hall. Instead, we have been advised to carry only our admit card, a postcard-sized photograph and a passport-sized photograph. Usually, a photo ID is compulsory during exams. In absence of one, I am confused if these three will be sufficient and valid documents,” added Aranya Dutta, a student of RKM Narendrapur who will take the examination at Barasat Indira Gandhi Memorial High School. 
 
 Amiya Maity, former teacher at SSKM, pointed out the areas which are still ambiguous and requires a through scrutiny by students so that they don’t miss any instructions. “The front of the admit card mentions that candidates will be allowed to enter the examination centre latest by 9:30am. But inside the admit card they have differentiated between two types of candidates. The students registered under group A will have to enter between 7:30am and 8:30am. The group B examinees can enter between 8:30am and 9:30am. Those in group A who get in at 9:30am will not be allowed in,” he said.
 
  “Students will also have to get through the test without food since tiffin won’t be allowed inside.” 
 
 
