PATNA: Chief minister   had stunned everyone at the JD(U)   here on Sunday by his emotional poser, “What will happen to the party if I die tomorrow?”
 
  When some women leaders approached Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, and sympathetically inquired as to why he used a word like ‘death’ for himself, he again became emotional and said, “Kaun janta hai kal kya hoga? (who knows what will happen tomorrow).” But he hastened to add, “Arre aise hin munh se nikal gaya tha, kuchh khas nahin (It was just an utterance; there is nothing serious about it).”
  
  Soon after the conversation, the CM joined luncheon with the party’s leaders, including social welfare minister   and JD(U) spokeswomen   and Bharti Mehta.
  
  Most of the JD(U) seniors TOI talked to on this issue said it was for the first time that Nitish uttered a word like his death and it was not once but twice at the same meeting.
  
  “As long as I am alive, the decision to enforce prohibition in Bihar cannot be annulled. If any one has a problem with my decision, he should kill me. I am not going to roll back the decision,” Nitish told the executive body members. Heads of all the party cells and district presidents were also present at the crucial meeting on strengthening the organization in the state.
  
  “I have been associated with Nitish ji for a long time and heard thousands of his closed-door and public addresses. I don’t recall he ever referred about his death,” JD(U) national general secretary Sanjay Jha told TOI on Tuesday.
  
  “By talking so, Nitish ji basically wanted to remind the party leaders about the hard work he had put in nurturing the organization. He wanted the party workers not to forget the basic ideology of JD(U) and remain committed to the cause of the poor and the downtrodden,” Jha said and added: “Bihar is still in transition phase, taking a leapfrog in the field of development. The state needs a visionary leader like Nitish ji for a long time to come.”
  
  Party spokeswoman Suheli Mehta also said, “By talking so, Nitish ji wanted to convey that every worker should understand his or her responsibility in the party.”
  
  However, JD(U) state president   said in view of the good health Nitish ji enjoys, people of the state need not worry about who after him for at least next ten years. “Nitish ji’s comment should be taken in the right perspective. He basically asked all the party leaders to be capable and honest to the cause for which JD(U) has been struggling for a long time,” Singh told a section of media.
