DEHRADUN: When the whirr of a helicopter descended upon the   one morning, it was nothing short of a historic moment for the 600-odd residents of the hamlet in  . None of them had ever seen a chopper and it was the first time since Independence that a chief minister was   that falls en route to the  .
 
  CM Harish Rawat’s visit to the village on December 22 to lay the foundation stone for developmental projects came at a time when the state was ready to go to polls. Like Gangi, dozens of villages on the fringes of Uttarakhand, which still lack basic amenities like electricity and roads, are remembered by politicians when polls draw closer, only to retreat into oblivion once elections are over.
  As the election battleground heats up, many nondescript villages in the assembly constituencies of Chakrata, Purola, Yamunotri, Didihat, Dharchula, Gangolihat, Yamkeshwar, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Chaubattakhal, Ghansali, Karnaprayag and Tharali are witnessing netas of all hues appear in their area, bringing with them promises of all kinds.
  
  Satendra Barthwal, a political activist from Rudraprayag, said, “In the past few weeks, many aspiring politicians have visited villages in Rudraprayag, trying to grab attention of voters and imploring them to vote for them in case they get a ticket. The public is, however, fed up of such leaders who are visible only during elections and vanish after that.”
  
  Like previous assembly elections, problems that are specific to the hills, such as migration, lack of roads, etc, are likely to make it to the party manifestos for 2017 polls as well.
  
  Manmohan Semwal, a resident of Purola town in Uttarkashi district, added, “Candidates from political parties campaigned here during 2012 elections and made tall promises in their manifestos. Now, five years have passed and they are back at our doorstep to seek votes, but where is the development they promised? People should reject candidates who are visible only during election campaigns.”
  
  Residents in many hill constituencies said that their local MLAs too visit them once in a blue moon, choosing to make comfortable locations in the plains like Dehradun their base. But with the polls scheduled for February, elected representatives have now started trekking to remote locations to “connect” with people.
  
  “A dozen villages beyond Dus Jhula Kande near Chopta are still inaccessible as there are no motorable roads. These places are rarely visited by political leaders, including local MLAs, except when elections are near,” said Satendra Barthwal.
  
  Some MLAs TOI spoke to said visits to their constituencies were few and far between due to lack of infrastructure and the tough terrain of the hills.
  
  Vijaya Barthwal, MLA from Yamkeshwar in Pauri district, said, “There are over 12 villages in my constituency which are very far and almost inaccessible. I was able to visit Dhunda and Kothar villages a couple of times during my tenure because they are very far. It is more than a day’s trek to these villages.”
  
  Bishan Singh Chaufal, MLA from Didihat constituency in Pithoragarh, added, “There are half a dozen villages in my constituency which are extremely remote and thus cannot be visited frequently. Recently, I walked 10km to Kaama village.”
  
  Former MLA from Kedarnath, Shaila Rani Rawat, who trekked several kilometres to Tosi and Gaundar villages, said she regularly visited villages in her ex-constituency. “In some cases, villagers threaten to boycott polls if MLAs don’t visit them. People cannot be ignored and it is important for public representatives to visit distant villages.”
