AURANGABAD: The city police have arrested a head constable and five others for robbing a trader of his demonetised notes to the tune of Rs 1 crore.

 While head constable   was arrested on Tuesday, the others were nabbed late on Monday.
 
 This is probably the first time since   that the role of a policeman in converting the scrapped notes has come to the fore.
 
 TOI was the first to report the dacoity that took place on February 21 in the jurisdiction of Jinsi police, where the suspects had called the merchant on the pretext of exchanging his demonetised notes with valid ones.
 
 The case was registered on Monday, after the merchant  , a resident of N-1,  , lodged a complaint.
 
 The other accused, identified as Fazal Yusuf Shaikh, Saddam Riyaz Shaikh, Abdul Sajed Qayyum, Zameer Jameel Khan and Yogesh Shette, have been remanded in police custody. They have been charged with dacoity, voluntarily causing hurt and intentional insult to provoke breach of peace. 
 
 Commissioner of police   said, “Based on the complaint lodged by the grain merchant, we have registered a case and arrested six people.” 
 
 Primary investigations have revealed that the entire dacoity was well-planned by the accused.
 
 The city police now suspect that the nabbing of Zameer by the Chaklamba police, along with the car containing demonetised notes of Rs 9.5 lakh, was a staged act.
 
 A senior officer told TOI, “As per our findings, the cash robbed from the trader was handed over to a person, who allegedly shared it with a policeman. But, after reports appeared on newspaper, the accused were convinced by a couple of policemen to take the blame on themselves in return for help with the case.”
 
 During investigations, the crime branch has found names of at least two policemen and three politicians cropping in. Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, “We would soon be summoning the persons whose names have cropped in. Depending on the role they have played, they will be taken on record.” 
 
 The income tax department has also started a parallel probe into the matter.
 
