 has been more than an art fair for Hyderabdi artist 
 . Last year, the art fair showcased her works and as the 27-year-old puts it, “It was a life-changing experience”. And now with just three days to go for the annual art extravaganza, there seems to be no end to her excitement. 
“Of all the things that I have learnt being a participant at World Art Dubai, the most important lesson is that art blurs boundaries,” says Afza, whose body of work is heavy on Hyderabadi motifs and imagery. She will be carrying her beloved city in her art to Dubai and is hopeful that city will be as receptive as it was last year. “Yes, it feels great to take a piece of Hyderabad with me. But what’s really heartening is to see people connect to the art in relation to their respective cultures,” says the artist. 
 Last year, her artwork depicting an old man drinking chai, caught the fancy of aficionados in Dubai. “I remember this one man from Oman who looked at the art and said, ‘This is so much like our culture in Oman — the man, the way he is sitting and his attire, everything’. So I told him, this is something he will get to see every day in Hyderabad. When we got talking about the commonalities between our cultures, I realised that despite having different nationalities we have many similarities.” 
  Interestingly, Afza’s work has also inspired many art admirers to visit the city. “This one German lady stood admiring an ink-on-paper cityscape I had drawn. She then came up to me, and asked where did I manage to find such architecture. I told her about our Old City and she got really excited about visiting Hyderabad. And as it turned out, the very next month she was here!” 
 Chai is more than just a theme for Afza as she also loves working on mediums derived from tea. Though she loves tea washes as a medium, of late, coffee has caught the artist’s frenzy. Pointing out the effectiveness of painting on such mediums, the painter says, “It has been interesting to say the least. Every coffee brand and variety gives me a range of colours from dark amber to a subtle gold. I am even taking art works with colours rendered from Araku coffee to World Art Dubai. So yeah, I’m taking more than just art, as the medium too is very Hyderabadi,” says the artist, who will be showcasing her work next in Singapore in August. 
 
 On the other hand, printmaker 
  is prepping for her forthcoming date with the United States. The Hyderabadi is one among the nine Indian artists to take part in an international printmaking exhibition at   and  . Visiting the US for the first time, she says, “I can’t say much about what’s in store for me there but I am excited about taking the tradition of printmaking, which over the years has developed certain styles characteristic of Hyderabad, overseas.” 
 The exhibition titled India Inked will be in display at the Union Galley for a month beginning April 14. And on the same day, Gouri will conduct a workshop for the students of the University of Wisconsin. “We have some of the world’s best printmakers in Hyderabad and having studied printmaking (MFA) under   sir, I am really, really excited about taking this part of Hyderabad’s artistic heritage to the young and eager artists in the US. I will be teaching the woodcut technique to the students, which is much simpler than other media, requires simple tools and the final results are seen immediately as opposed to the apparatus and the time that prints on other media would need,” says the 44-year-old artist.
  After Wisconsin, the artist will spend about a week as artist-in-residence at the RedLine Milwaukee studio creating art and interacting with the artists’ community. Printmaking is a strenuous process and Gouri is one of the few women in the city who have carved a niche for herself in the practice. “When it comes to printmaking, the catch is to find a studio that supports your art. I have a printmaking studio with all the machinery I need in Warangal. I go to the Dhi Art Space in Ameerpet for the proofs. But yes, printmaking is indeed laborious and that’s why there are very few printmakers,” she said.
  She immediately adds, “...But I love everything about it. It requires a strong foundation in sketching. Even minute errors show up when you finally print the sketch. A printmaker needs to be mindful about the layering and the textures so that the intention behind the artwork shines. All this makes it a discipline like no other.”
  Although this is the first time she is travelling abroad for an international exchange programme, Gouri’s works have travelled overseas before. “My art was showcased in London in 2008 and Dubai in 2010. Both the shows were a hit and the galleries come to Hyderabad to check out more of my work!” enthuses the artist, who says she is indebted to senior artist Chippa Sudhakar for choosing her and her work for this exchange programme.
 
 
