JAIPUR: To strengthen its position on triple talaq, the   (AIMPLB) has made a tactical shift by forwarding its women’s wing to lead from the front to garner support for its stand on triple talaq. Besides relying on theological interpretation of divorce in Quran, the   is pushing signature campaigns, public meetings, presenting case studies and survey reports in favour of   to establish a narrative that triple talaq is the most convenient method for divorce.

 The AIMPLB formed state’s first Darul Qaza (Sharia court) in Jaipur. The announcement was made during the board’s meeting held at   late on Sunday night. The role of the court is to amicably resolve the issues of Muslims. Here Muslims can seek suggestions or guidance on any issue. 
 
 The women’s wing concluded its two-day workshop by holding a public meeting at   attended by over 20,000 women from across the state on Sunday. Backed by senior officials of the AIMPLB who also held a public meeting at Karbala Maidan the same day which was attended by over a lakh people sending a strong message in the BJP-ruled state that ‘masses’ support its stand on triple talaq on Sunday.
  
  
 The change in stance came after RSS-backed   jumped to support the central government by releasing a petition claiming to have 1 million signatures of Muslim women favouring a ban on triple talaq. It is also intended to counter the central government’s narrative that triple talaq is not integral to the Muslim faith and that they are being supported by Muslim women on this issue.
 
 The central government has challenged the practice of triple talaq at the   stating that triple talaq was not an integral part of Islam and is against the spirit of the Constitution. The matter is pending before the apex court.
 
 President of the women’s wing of AIMPLB, Dr Asma Zohra said, “The central government is misleading the Supreme Court by projecting individual cases to show triple talaq in a bad light and highlighting wrong facts that Muslim women are supporting Modi government’s take at the Supreme Court. Our case studies say that triples talaq is the best medium for divorce as it saves both the parties from going through the lengthy legal process that takes years to resolve the matter. This delay also leaves them with the least possibility to rehabilitate.” 
 
 
