HUBBALLI: After a two-year courtship, Hubballi's Daniel Henry Devanur married his beau and distant relative,  , at a church in Pakistan last year. Nine months later, Daniel, an Indian citizen, is running from pillar to post to bring his bride, a Pakistani national, home. 

  The marriage is facing diplomatic and procedural hitches: Daniel must get a sponsorship certificate signed by an Indian gazette officer to facilitate his wife's India journey; the groom must inform the Indian government about his marriage in Pakistan. Daniel has now tweeted external affairs minister   with a bailout message. 
 
  Daniel is from   of Hubballi and works with a private cellphone company. His bride, Silvia, is a distant relative of his mother, whose family's roots are in West Bengal and have been staying in Pakistan before Partition. "I fell in love with Silvia in 2014 and we got married on June 25, 2016. Since my parents did not have passports, I went to Pakistan alone and got married in the presence of other relatives at   in Lahore and later at a court. I returned to India after a few days," he told TOI. 
 
  The couple have registered their marriage and got a certificate from the Pakistani government. Daniel's father Simon, a retired railway employee, said the family was waiting for the arrival of their daughter-in-law as none of them attended the wedding. In his efforts to obtain a visitor visa for his wife, Daniel has met officials from all levels of governance: A former corporator to an MP to officers with connections with the Indian embassy. But he has drawn a blank. 
 
  
  
 
  "All I need is the signature of a gazette officer - tahsildar, assistant commissioner or deputy commissioner - on my application," Daniel said. Most officers he met turned down his request, saying they cannot sign on the document without a nod from their officers. MP Prahlad Joshi confirmed Daniel met him a few days ago in this regard. "I've sent a letter to the foreign minister to help Daniel. I will meet the minister in the next couple of days and push his case," he added. 
 
  Hubballi tahsildar   said it was "technically not possible" to issue a certificate as Daniel hadn't brought his marriage move to the Indian government's notice. "I told him to approach the Indian embassy with documents. If he does so, then the embassy will ask the state to do verification (on the claim) and sign the sponsorship certificate. We are trying to help him within the ambit of the law," he added. 
 
