Manali: Over a hundred villages in 28 panchayats of Lahaul have been covered in deep snow and witnessing several avalanches in the last two days. All internal roads of Lahaul are blocked and people have to walk on over 100cm thick layer of snow. The valley has no electricity, road connectivity or water and thus cut off from rest of the world.

 The valley has received 120cm to 170cm of snow since January 25, confining people indoors. An avalanche on Friday damaged a footbridge over Bhaga river connecting Chheling village. Another avalanche near Sissu village had damaged power transmission lines.
 
 Lahaul-Spiti district administration asked the residents to stay away from avalanche prone areas and avoid unnecessary movement towards isolated areas. As the avalanche threat is looming over a hundred prone sites in the valley, the administration has cancelled the pulse polio programme of January 29 for administering oral polio vaccine to children.
 
 In the past, avalanches have blocked the flow of Chenab river many times and damaged property worth crores of rupees. The region already had a layer of snow which turned into ice due to extreme cold. Another thick layer of snow on existing layer increased the possibility of avalanches in the next few days.
 
 To avoid collapsing of roofs, people are continuously removing snow from their houses, even during heavy snowfall. On Saturday morning, when sky was little clear, people removed snow from above the vehicles which had disappeared under snow. Residents are melting snow to get water for drinking and cooking purposes.
 
 Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said the footbridge close to Keylong damaged due to an avalanche has been declared unsafe. He added, “The new date for polio vaccination will be declared soon. Also, police, disaster management and all departments are on alert.”
 
 Landlocked Lahaul residents organize indoor games
 
 Manali: As traffic has come to a standstill, TVs and phones switched off due to no electricity and people limited to their houses because of waist high snow, men in villages of Lahaul are organizing indoor games while women are weaving socks, gloves and sweaters.
 
 Sunil Bodh, a member of Great Himalayan Rescue and Adventure Sports Association, spoke to TOI over phone from Keylong and said, “Women are weaving several products in their houses to be used by the family members and many would even sell them in summers. We are organizing carrom, table tennis, badminton and many other indoor games for youths. Elderly are generally interested in traditional game of dice, locally known as chholo,”
 
 Bodh added, “We are landlocked. We cannot move out of our valley, not even to houses in the neighbourhood. Our next mission is to run a disaster management and awareness programme in villages of Lahaul,” he said.
 
 Snowfall continues in Lahaul, upper Himachal
 
 Manali: After heavy snowfall that continued for nearly 72 hours, the snowfall in Lahaul valley again started on Saturday evening. The high peaks of Kullu, Chamba, Kinnaur and Kangra also experienced light snowfall.
 
 Saturday morning was clear with light overcast. The emergency winter flight conducted two sorties from Kullu to Stingri and Udaipur.
 
 The weather suddenly turned inclement and it started snowing on high peaks. Minimum temperature across the state has decreased by one or two degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours. Keylong was the coldest inhabited place in Himachal at minus 9.4 degrees Celsius, followed by Manali minus 4 degrees Celsius and Kalpa minus 3.8 degrees Celsius. Shimla was also cold at 2.9 degrees Celsius and Dharamshala’s minimum temperature was recorded at 7.2 degrees Celsius.
 
 According to Shimla meteorological office, low and mid hills of state will generally be dry while high hills may receive snow in the next few days.
 
 
