AGRA: In a land dispute case, police booked a dead man for robbery, vandalism, assault, and rioting in Aliganj city of   district.

 Identified as Ranveer alias Narveer alias Billu, the victim died in 2015 after drowning in a pond, but on the complaint of the neighbour Vishal Gupta, police booked   and 12 of his relatives.
 
 “Our neighbour had encroached on government land by constructing a wall on a public path which is an important passage for local residents. When we protested against the blockade, he filed a fake FIR against us and uncle Billu, who died two years ago,” said Jai Prakash alias Sethi nephew of deceased.
 
 Earlier based on family complaint over encroachment, district magistrate Amit Kishore had directed Aliganj sub divisional magistrate   to inspect the land. According to official source, the land dispute matter is under investigation.
 
 Meanwhile, in the   by Vishal Gupta against the 13 people including deceased Billu, he has claimed, “I was attacked by Billu and his family members with spade and lathis and also robbed of Rs 50,000 cash. They dismantled the wall which was being constructed on the land which I had bought and registered.”
 
 Interestingly, Gupta's claim of being attacked falls flat as the police countered the complaint that there was no injury marks on his body and no medical was conducted.
 
 According to station officer (SO) of Aliganj Pardeep Jadon, “There was no injury marks on Gupta’s body. He had exaggerated in the complaint.”
 
 When questioned, as how police filed an FIR against a deceased man, SO said, “Initially the FIR was lodged based on the written complaint of Gupta. Since now the discrepancies has come to light, we will remove Billu’s name once the investigation is completed.”
 
 In the FIR police have booked the 13 persons including Billu under IPC sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 392 (Punishment for robbery) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees).
 
