When  , the Supreme Leader of  , pressed the button that detonated a hydrogen bomb last fortnight,   traders around the world must have rejoiced, since gold usually does well during geopolitical turmoil. International gold prices reached an 11-month high of $1,335 last week.

 But can we expect the rally to continue? Most experts don't expect a big upward move from current levels. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 There is no telling what will happen next in the ongoing tussle between US and North Korea. “If the crisis in the Korean peninsula continues, we might see international gold prices inching higher towards the $1,360 mark,“ says Prathamesh Mallya, Chief Analyst, Non-Agri Commodities & Currencies, Angel Commodities Broking. This also means that prices could crash if fears of a military strike recede. “The geopolitical risk is already in the price. Gold will see an immediate correction if the Korean peninsula crisis ends,“ says Lakshmi Iyer, Head of Fixed Income and Product, Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 
 Other factors like the weakening dollar, the Federal Reserve not increasing interest rates and concerns about the Trump regime are also propping up gold prices. “We expect gold prices to remain range-bound with an upward bias in the coming months,“ says Hareesh V , Research Head, Geofin Comtrade.
 
 Since international gold is dollar denominated, the two share an inverse relationship. Dollar has slipped against major currencies and experts don't see any let up on that front. Only a rate hike by the Federal Reserve can strengthen the dollar, but it keeps getting postponed. Conflicting economic signals by the Trump administration is another factor keeping the dollar low. 
  
 
 
 
 
 Investment demand for gold also needs to pick up for prices to rally.   (WGC) data shows that gold demand slumped 14 per cent to an eight-year low of 2,003.8 tonnes in the first half of 2017. “There has been a slowdown in the demand post GST,“ says Navneet Damani, AVP , Commodity Research, Motilal Oswal Commodities. Others agree.“GST is a major transparency measure.Since a large part of the gold jewellery industry is still in the unorganised sector, the industry may take 12-18 months to settle,“ says Somasundaram PR, Managing Director-India,  .
 
 The crackdown on black money has not helped either. Cash deals above Rs 2 lakh are banned, which has hit demand badly . Some jewellers tried to encourage buying small quantities of gold per day to avoid the Rs 2 lakh cash limit. But the government plugged this loophole by putting jewellers under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). This means jewellers must now do a KYC check for cash deals of Rs 50,000 or more.
 
 The rural demand is also expected to be lower this year. “The adverse weather conditions could impact crop production in many states, which in turn would impact farmers' income and depress gold demand from rural India,“ says Manoj Kumar Jain, Director, India Nivesh Commodities. 
  
 
 
 
 
 Though international gold is close to its 52-week high, domestic   is yet to reach that level because of the rising rupee. The rupee has strengthened from nearly 69 to almost 64 in the past nine months. But experts don't expect this trend to continue for long. “Though it might appreciate further in the short term due to continued money inflow, the rupee is a bit overvalued on real effective exchange rate (REER) basis. So it may remain between 64 and 65 during the next one year,“ says Singh.
 
 
 
 
 One worry for investors is the 10 per cent import duty of on gold, which keeps the prices high. “There is no possibility of a duty cut on gold as the government wants to promote its Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB) scheme and doesn't want to lose revenue,“ says Jain.
 
 Analysts also feel that with gold prices having crossed $1,300 level, there is limited upside from here on. “It could reach $1,355-1,375, the previous year's high during the US presidential election in November,“ says Satsangi.
 
 
 
 
 Much depends on whether you are an investor or hedger. Given that gold prices are not expected to move up significantly from current levels, investors should wait for a correction and get in only after a meaningful dip.
 
 However, the situation is different for hedgers who want to keep a part of their portfolio in gold as protection against unknown events. In addition to geopolitical risks, the relatively high valuation of equities is attracting investors to gold now. “Since the equity valuation is placed above its long-term average, investors should maintain or increase their gold holdings,“ says Manoj Nagpal, CEO, Outlook Asia Capital.
 
 
 
 
 Jewellery involves making charges and other incidental expenses. It's better to opt for gold bars. However, GST has complicated the situation. While a jeweller will charge you 3 per cent GST on a gold bar, he will not compensate you when you sell it back. However, gold bars have some inherent advantages. “In a real sense, insurance against unforeseen circumstances can happen only with physical gold because if the financial market is shut, liquidity for paper gold will be zero,“ says Nagpal. 
  
 
 
 
 Theoretically, sovereign gold bonds issued by RBI are the best because they also offer additional interest for holding gold. But investors are not enthused because SGBs have very low liquidity in the secondary market. Further, even after adjusting for the interest received, SGBs underperformed gold by 10 per cent.Gold bonds remain a good option for investors who are ready to hold them for at least five years, after which they can be redeemed.
 
 Gold ETFs, on the other hand, are meant for investors who want regular liquidity. However, not all gold ETFs command high liquidity . This explains why some have made significant losses during the past one year when gold prices remained flat. Investors should remain with highly liquid ETFs such as Reliance Gold BEES.
 
 Investors should also keep in mind that there is an annual expense of around 1 per cent per annum and therefore, the return from these instruments will always be less than the movement in the prices of the yellow metal.
 
