PATNA: Former deputy CM   on Friday asked the state government to disclose the names of ministers, legislators and bureaucrats who applied pressure on Bihar Staff Selection Commission ( ) chairman Sudhir Kumar and its suspended secretary Parmeshwar Ram to seek favour for their candidates for Intermediate-level clerical jobs.

 Modi said it had become incumbent on the government to make their names public as both BSSC chairman and secretary admitted that they had been pressurized. 
 
 Modi also alleged that the ‘kingpins’ of the paper leak had proximity to CM Nitish Kumar and RJD president Lalu Prasad. He said Lalu should also be quizzed in the case because science and technology department typist Ramashish Singh (Rai), who was the bailor for Lalu in one of the cases, has now been arrested in the paper leak case. Besides, the claim of the BSSC chairman regarding pressure and pairvi from politicians deserved to be probed, Modi said.
 
 It is equally strange that Rai has been running a school, despite the cancellation of the affiliation granted to it by the CBSE. Not only that, the school was made one of the centres for the BSCC examinations, Modi said.
 
 He said the special investigation team (SIT) headed by Patna SSP Manu Maharaj should also probe the alleged irregularities committed in the previous examinations conducted by the BSSC — like with regard to graduate-level secretariat assistant and 3,016 other posts, junior engineer recruitment, motor vehicle inspect (MVI) examinations and appointment of agriculture coordinators — over the last four years.
 
 Meanwhile, JD(U) spokesman and MLC   strongly countered Modi’s claims and said he should not come into the role of a CID sleuth, as the Nitish Kumar government is committed to upholding the rule of law.
 
 Singh said the SIT has not only been carrying out detailed investigation to bust the paper leak racket, but also keeping DIG Shalin updated with the details of investigation on daily basis. Besides, zonal IG   is also monitoring the case, he said, adding that action would be taken against the guilty and the network of those involved in the leak of question papers would also be busted. 
 
 
