KOCHI: With   hesitant to supply garbage to Kochi   Rail Limited ( ), the Metro agency is planning to procure waste from municipalities like Alappuzha for ornamental plants cultivation. The plan is to grow ornamental plants in the medians and pillars of Metro rail. 

 Though KMRL held talks with corporation, the latter refused to supply garbage to the Metro agency. As per the civic body authorities, they will have to supply at least 300 tonnes of municipal solid waste a day to the company which is to start waste to energy plant at Brahamapuram. The civic body said they had entered into agreement with the private firm for supplying the waste. But the waste-to-energy plant is still in paper and the project has to get a series of clearances including the ones from   and pollution control board. Even if the project gets all these clearances, it will take months for the project to take off. So, the KMRL authorities requested corporation to provide waste for the time being. "But, the corporation hasn't responded to our plea for giving the waste temporarily. So, we have started negotiations with other local bodies including Alappuzha municipality," an official with KMRL said.
 
 The KMRL has identified a private partner which will process the garbage and generate manure. The manure, which would be odourless, will be used as medium for planting ornamental and flowering plants. Besides, marching towards the objective of carbon-neutral Metro project by cultivating plants, the metro authorities expect to generate revenue from the sale of plants and flowers as well.
 
 There are allegations that the project is not environmental-friendly and financially viable. So, the corporation authorities could have supplied the garbage to KMRL on an experimental basis. When TOI contacted the health department of corporation, they said the quantity of waste the KMRL require is just 2,000 tonnes a year. So, the city which generates more than 2,000 tonnes waste a day will have to find other means to treat the garbage.
 
 But, KMRL said that they would require 20,000 to 30,000 tonnes of garbage for cultivating plants in 500 medians for six months. "We will have to change the medium every six months. Moreover, we would require almost the same quantity for setting up vertical garden as well. So, we can take the entire garbage of the city," an official with KMRL said. "Moreover, the project can be extended to national highways and other such areas," the official said.
 
