With singles being the hottest thing to happen to the music industry in the past year, there are a plethora of music videos being released almost every few months. Times Music has come up with a one-of-its-kind romantic song of the season, Saware. The soulful melody rendered by   and   will be released today.
The music video narrates the story of a much-awaited reunion of an Indian Army official and his wife played by   and   (Winner Miss Grand International 2015 2nd Runner-Up). The profound lyrics and composition by Anupama breathe life into the magical tale of a young couple transitioning through the different stages of union, affection and separation.
 In an exclusive chat with BT Anupama tells us about the song, the making of the video and more…
 
 
 
 Saware is a God-sent gift to me. I usually first compose a melody and then write words according to the dhun. This song was different in a sense that it cropped up in my mind complete with the lyrics and dhun. I think the beauty of the track lies in the hook line Saware itself. It just helps the pathos of the song to reach its peak. 
 
 
 
 It has been a very organic creation. I never had any target when I composed it. But the way it sounded, I knew this very well that it has a future. Whoever heard it would start humming 
 it, it was that infectious. When we recorded this song with Rahat Fateh Ali Khan sahab, many people from the music industry congratulated me. This was the magic of its melody and pathos. 
 
 
 I am glad that I could impress Rahatji so much with my first composition. We share a 
 long-lasting bond now. I am sure our creative partnership will go a long way. His voice has so many emotions and colours. When he heard this song for the first time, he was really moved. His rendition came straight from the heart. We recorded it but felt as if we are witnessing one of his live shows. 
 
 
 
 The video of the song was shot amidst the imperial grandeur of old Lucknow. It’s a heartening depiction of how an Indian Army soldier and his wife reminiscing the days of togetherness, making the heart grow fonder with each passing day. Kunal Khemu, who plays the army officer, writes a letter to his wife Vartika Singh, informing her of his arrival. The poignant words, harmonious melody and effervescent voices, coupled with the charming love story make Saware a romantic experience.
 
 
  
  
