An early   between a set of   who were on the last leg of a party night, and a  , on Thursday brought back memories of Mumbaikars Keenan Santos and his friend Reuben Fernandez, who met with an untimely end at the hands of a group of miscreants in 2011, when they tried to protect their women friends from being harassed by them. Fortunately in this case, the men escaped death, but suffered serious injuries as they protested the molestation of the lady accompanying them.
 
 One of the victims of the assault, Samuel Johnson, who owns an event management company, filed an FIR at the Mundhwa police station on Thursday, holding on to the bandage covering 17 stitches on his head. Late on Wednesday night, after celebrating a friend’s birthday at Sin Envy Pride, a lounge bar at Koregaon Park Annexe, Johnson, his friend and the friend’s wife (who were too traumatised after the incident to give out their names), decided to get something to eat.
 
 They drove down from Sin Envy Pride to a restaurant in Mundhwa, which is open to customers through the night. On reaching the spot, the lady, who happens to be Johnson’s friend’s wife, got down from the car to use the washroom, while the two men drove ahead to find a parking spot. When she stepped out of the restaurant, waiting for them, she spotted two men standing on the footpath across the road. In a blink they approached her and started sexually harassing her, tearing off the left side of her top. “I later realised that I had seen both of them try get close to me and another female friend of mine (who had joined the earlier party) in the parking at Sin Envy Pride,” said the woman. Nothing untoward happened there, but clearly they were followed from Koregaon Park to Mundhwa.
 
 As soon as they saw her husband approaching, they left the spot and went to the opposite side of the road. Not wishing to court trouble, the woman tried to keep the matter from her husband and leave the place. Just at that time, one of the two men hurled a glass towards her husband, which hit him on the face, escaping his left eye.
 
 By the time Johnson arrived, a burgeoning crowd of almost 30 men gathered on the other side of the road. Just as Johnson was inspecting his friend’s wound, one of them walked up to him to crash a beer bottle on his head.
 
 “With whatever little energy I had left after being hit, I tried fighting the two guys who were continuously attacking me with blows. The other men who were with them were simply watching, as I continued to get hit,” recalled Johnson. “It was important that we move my friend’s wife away from the spot. My friend could hardly see anything with his left eye. When the boys felt that they had hit me enough, they all simply left from there.”
 
 After this incident, the three of them rushed to Mundhwa police chowky to register a complaint, where they were asked to get medical tests first. “The cops were extremely hostile. They could see that my husband and his friend were bleeding and yet refused to do anything. They simply gave us a note for a medical test and asked us to go to Sassoon Hospital,” said the woman. Since the pain was unbearable, instead of arguing with the cops, they thought it judicious to go to Ruby Hall Clinic and get treated.
 
 Johnson has 17 stitches on his head while his friend seven just above his eye. Doctors had to remove shards of glass from their wounds and shared that had the wound been even a few centimetres lower he would have lost his eyesight. The cops came to Ruby Hall Clinic at around 9.30 am to record their statements, after repeated phone calls. They have charged the boys with Section 324 for voluntarily causing hurt and Section 354 for outraging and assaulting a girl’s modesty under the Indian Penal Code. The FIR shockingly was registered later on Thursday evening over 12 hours after the incident.
 
 Senior police inspector of Mundhwa police station, J Pathan said, “We received the complaint in the morning and by afternoon had already sent a team to where these guys live to nab them. Till 7pm on February 9, after combing the spot for nearly five hours, none of them have been spotted.”
 
 In the middle of all this, after being asked to get a medical test done, before an FIR could be registered, the woman continuously tried to call the police control number (100), which was engaged through out. She started trying to call them at around 5.30 am, but could only get through to them at around 7.30 am, from the hospital. She then asked for cops to be sent to Ruby Hall Clinic so that the complaint could be registered. While the cops assured that they would reach in exactly five minutes, they showed up at least two hours later, said the woman.
 
 When Mirror contacted Joint police commissioner, Pune police, Sunil Ramanand, he said, “I have instructed the DCP of the zone to inspect the spot and also conduct an inquiry into the delay in filing the FIR.”
 
