NOIDA: A 39-year-old woman saved a stranger from two bike-borne   who were trying to snatch his bag at gunpoint in Sector 105 here.

 Aparajita Dasgupta, director of Brahmananda Public School, Sector 20, said she spotted the snatching attempt while returning in her Nissan Sunny SUV to her residence in Sector 105 from a gym in Sector 124 on Wednesday night. According to her, when she took a U-turn towards Judges Colony in Sector 105 around 9pm, she spotted two   trying to snatch a bag from a pedestrian at the spot. “The victim looked like an office goer and the criminals were trying to snatch the bag that was slung on his shoulder,” she said.
 
 Dasgupta said she saw that the criminals were also thrashing him when she stopped her car. “I flashed my car’s headlights and honked to alert passersby. That provoked the miscreants and one of them pulled out a pistol and signalled me to leave,” she told TOI.
 
 She said the criminal fired a shot towards her car when she refused to move and the bullet hit the car. “At that point I got scared and accelerated the car in reverse gear since they were in front. It was really the most difficult time of my life as I also had to ensure that my car did not hit any vehicle coming from behind. I hastily drove back around 200 metres till I reached a tea stall and stopped when I saw some people around,” she said. The criminals chased her for some distance before giving up.
 
 Dasgupta said she dialled 100 about 10 times but could not get through. She said she finally found a PCR jeep at 9.40pm near Pathways School   and narrated the episode to the police. 
 
 The police visited the spot soon but the criminals had fled by then. The victim who was being robbed had also left the place. Local people said that the criminals fled leaving the victim at the spot. 
 
 Dasgupta said that she filed a complaint with the PCR cops and returned home.
 
 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said he had not yet received information on the case. 
 
 “We will investigate the matter and launch a search for the criminals,” he said.
 
 
