KOLKATA: India played their last ODI before the   in June at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday, but skipper   is not bothered by the fact that they will not be getting any more competitive 50over games before the mega event. Instead he felt playing more T20s ahead of the big tourney will help them get better at death bowling.

 “The more T20s we play , the better will get at death bowling in the ODIs. That will be our advantage,“ Kohli said at the post-match press conference.
 
 In a series where batsmen scored in abundance, the Indian openers failed to make any lasting impression. Kohli, however, backed   and Co. “At times, you have to give them chances to return to form.You don't get ready players for inter national cricket. We should back our openers and give them confidence. It's just a matter of one or two innings to get your flow back,“ he stated.
 
 Recalling the exploits of   and Dhawan during their title-winning run in 2013, he said: “Rohit and Shikhar had been a revelation in the last edition of the Champions Trophy .So far we have only batted to 75 per cent of our potential. If all of us bat to full potential it would be ominous for the oppo sition,“ Kohli warned.
 
 The skipper showered praise on Kedar Jadhav and all-rounder Hardik Pandya. “We take a lot of positives from this series.I am very happy to see the way Kedar batted and the way Hardik performed with the bat and ball. Then Yuvi (Yuvraj) and Mahi (Dhoni) stitched that big partnership. Even Bhuvneshwar won the second game for us with the ball,“ he said.
 
 India were 173 for 5 when Jadhav and Pandya stitched a 104-run partnership to raise hopes of a victory . “These new guys have shown character under pressure. To me, it was the biggest positive emerging out of this series,“ Kohli said.
 
 According to Kohli, Pandya, who made a strokeful 56 off 43 balls and also claimed three wickets, lends balance to the side. “All the teams around the world have a fast-bowling allrounder which gives them good balance. It allows you to play that extra batsman. Hardik bowled really well in the first and the second games. Even today he picked up three wickets,“ Kohli said.
 
 “Hardik's an instinctive player and now he's getting smarter and more intelligent.We spoke to him about not being too aggressive or reckless initially and he understands the importance of rotating strike and when to score a boundary or hit the big shots.“
 
 
