MUMBAI: A   startles as it escapes the so-far refined tongue of Pramod Dhamankar, who is perennially signing papers over a slanting table in a room full of slanting shelves. “Ch***a,” says the 52-year-old   of Charni Road's  , referring only to one of those unfortunate surnames that sometimes jump at him from the weekly records of changed names. 

 To escape the insult gifted by their identity, the bearers of such names and last names tend to log on to the state government’s website, upload documents and pay Rs 523 each for a  . They form a tiny chunk of nearly 2 lakh   who've made Maharashtra richer by over Rs 8 crore in the last financial year.
 
 Ever since name-changing became an online-only application process in July 2014, Dhamankar has seen the number of applicants go up steadily on the computer screen even as the window behind him began offering an unobstructed view of the sea across the road. In the tedious, analog era of name-changing three years ago, this scenery hid behind a serpentine queue of men and women who would come from as far as Latur and Aurangabad and wait from 10 am to 4 pm clutching ration cards and marriage certificates. "They used to come in thousands, sometimes 4,000 in a day," recalls Dhamankar. Thanks to e-filing, Dhamankar now only gets the odd walk-in visitor now-a-days--chiefly unlettered men who are not tech-savvy or may be unaware of the process being online-only. They come for reasons ranging from marriage to escaping the stigma of caste. He directs them to one of many Maha-E-Seva Kendras in the city--there are 4500 all over Maharashtra--which guide them through the process for a fee.
 
 Apart from the ease of e-filing, name-changing has become a game-changer for the state for another reason. In March 2015, the change-of-name application fee went up from Rs 120 to Rs 523 each. So, compared to the sum of almost Rs 4 crore it got from over 1.31 lakh applications in 2009-2010, Maharashtra is now earning double the amount from just a small jump in applicants this financial year. Interestingly, the application fee for those belonging to the scheduled castes, tribes and OBCs is around Rs 270, and many of the applicants--chiefly aged 20 to 40--tend to belong to the lower end of the totem pole if not the middle classes, says Dhamankar. But "after digitisation, we are seeing more applicants from the upper classes too," he says, referring to businessmen who swap initials and add vowels into their names to lure profits into their lives. A Kanojia, for instance, recently became Kannojiya. 
 
 Besides, men tend to outdo women in terms of sheer number of applications. Between January 2016 and March 2017, there were over 90,000 male applicants and just over 60,000 women applicants. Apart from factors such as change in religion (Tiwari turns into Ricardo), spelling errors in official documents (Twinkal to Twinkle), women tend to alter their surnames, drop their middle names and even shed first names after a marriage or a divorce while monetary concerns seem to drive men to apply. Adoption too is a factor in the case of applicants who are minors. Then, "there are even men who have turned into women," says Dhamankar, referring to trans women applicants. In an edition from April 2015, we found a Kavya who had morphed into Aaditya. 
 
 Every Thursday, the week's changed names line up serially in the weekly gazette. For a deceptively boring document, it hides many moments that chorus: "Hey, it's a free country." Here, for every man who replaces his pet name with his full name in the ration card, there may be one that does just the opposite, finds Dhamankar. So, if Raju becomes Rajesh, a whimsical Baban turns into Bablu. An edition showed one 'Nagabhushanam' had opted to shorten his cumbresome name to 'Nagesh'. Then, Dhamankar, whose surname reveals his native village, has even seen men named after their villages drop their surnames. "Calling someone by their village name is an old-fashioned, rural habit," he says. "To sound more urban, a Devrukkar, for instance, may opt to become a Sawant." Besides, in his lavender office room, not only has he stumbled upon visitors who want to rename their sons after their own fathers but also young men tired of being ridiculed for carrying their grandfather's religious, time-worn names. 
 
 Many describe changing their names as a form of rebirth but, for some, it is merely an attempt to start a life. When Hanumant Rathod, a taxi driver in Cuffe Parade, got married in 2000, his wife's name went from Meghibai to Ganibai. The change reflects in all her documents but the ration card. This is why, "when I tried to open a bank account for her recently, the authorities refused," says Rathod, who made a trip to the Gazette office that sent him to a nearby Maha-E-Seva kendra last month. "Just last week, my wife got her own bank account," muses Rathod. Not everyone's pleased with the e-filing process though. Worli resident Brijesh Kumar Yadav, who got his wife's name changed recently laments about having to cough up Rs 850, which included the fee and the E-seva Kendra's processing charges. "Everyone takes advantage of the helpless," rues Yadav. 
 
 While it's unclear if name-changing has been game-changing for applicants, it has brought prosperity to the likes of Amit Lamba, a numerologist who decides the names of babies, movies, medicines and websites besides tweaking the names of men and women who "want to enhance the quality of their life." "Earlier," says Lamba, who handed a struggler named Bholashankar a more filmy alias recently, "only people who were superstitious, especially those in the film industry, would approach me." Today, even those in ordinary jobs come to Lamba. Recently, he fished out a more modern name for a woman who felt her traditional name might hamper her prospects in the fashion design industry.
 
 Invariably, over the course of uploading official documents, the owners of E-Seva Kendras discover India. For instance, out of 1,68,793 applications last financial year, 14,184 were rejected for reasons ranging from technical errors or lack of documents. "Women who have separated from their husbands find it tough as their change of name applications are not sanctioned for want of divorce papers," says Pooja Kharse of Aai Consultancy, a private computer service centre. Then, there are cases where "the husbands of divorced women refuse to part with the divorce papers which creates trouble," says Dinesh Suryavanshi, whose five-year-old centre at Parel-Bhoiwada sees around 50 change-of-name applicants drop in every month. Among them, are many apply who apply for a fresh spelling change to correct mistakes in their Aadhar card or PAN card. "It's not their fault," he says, "but they have to suffer."
 
 For the record, no names were changed in this story. 
 
 
 
 Total Number of change-of-name applications between April 2016 and March 2017 is 1,82,977
 
 Total Revenue earned from change-of-name applications between April 2016 and March 2017 is Rs 83721464
 
 Applying for change-of-name became an online-only process in Maharashtra in July 2014
 
 Since then Maharashtra has seen a total of 3,14,936 change-of-name applications
 
 Cost of application is Rs 523 (including online processing fee)
 
 Reasons for applying include marriage, divorce, change in religion, errors in documents, numerology, errors in documents, embarrassing surnames and other whims 
 
 Change-of-name applications are sought for minors after adoption 
 
