NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Monday stayed till April 27 a   order asking   to allow inspection of records of all students who cleared BA examination in 1978, which includes prime minister  .

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva allowed DU’s plea for an interim stay on the order and issued notice to RTI applicant Neeraj, seeking his response.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday termed the high court’s order on Narendra Modi’s DU degree as unfortunate. He also alleged that Modi’s degree is “definitely fake”. “Delhi high court stay order very unfortunate. People have a right to see their PM’s degree,” Kejriwal tweeted. “Modiji’s degree is definitely fake. He is trying his best to conceal it,” he added.
 
 In its plea challenging the CIC ruling, DU has attacked the commissioner who gave the order to disclose the information saying the “capricious” decision was taken on “extraneous consideration” and in “unexceptionable haste.”
 
 It said the “unwarranted haste shown by the CIC in deciding the matter by granting an empty formality of hearing to the petitioner (DU) shows extraneous considerations have gone into the decision-making process of the CIC, making the impugned order unsustainable...” Dubbing the   as “illegal and contrary to law”, the university said it has been “passed by CIC in violation of principles of natural justice”, adding that “the CIC in violation of its own established rules...passed the order on the first day of hearing itself.”
 
 Additional Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the university and submitted that the CIC order is “arbitrary” and “untenable in law” as the information sought to be disclosed is “third-party personal information.”
 
 The senior law officer also highlighted that the CIC ruling, if accepted, will have “far-reaching adverse consequences for the petitioner and all universities in the country which hold degrees of crores of students in a fiduciary capacity.” DU maintained the information sought is exempted under the RTI Act. The plea added that “it was completely illegal for the CIC to direct the petitioner (DU) to disclose an information which is available to it in its fiduciary capacity...”
 
 The CIC had asked DU to allow inspection while rejecting contention of its Central Public Information Officer that it was third party personal information, saying there was “neither merit, nor legality” in it. Information commissioner Sridhar Acharyulu had held that educational qualifications of a student (former/current) fall under the public domain.
 
