A Mumbai sessions court on Friday sentenced   and model   to three years' imprisonment after holding her guilty of conspiring to kill national award-winning filmmaker  .

 Besides Preeti, two others -Naresh Pardeshi and Shivram Das -were convicted in the case.However, they were granted bail for Rs 15,000 and their sentences suspended for four week so that they can approach the High Court.
 
  
  
 A year before giving the contract to kill Bhandarkar, Preeti had accused the director of raping her after promising to cast her in one of his films. The rape case was quashed by the Supreme Court in 2012. Dressed in a bright red-and-golden kurti and leggings, Jain appeared shocked by the verdict pronounced by judge S.M. Bhonsle on Thursday. As hordes of photographers jostled and pushed to get a picture of her, she said that she would appeal against the verdict and was confident of getting justice.
 
 Reacting to the verdict, Bhandarkar tweeted, “Some things are better left unsaid! Some things are better left as they are. Life moves on, so have I.“
 
 In July 2004, Preeti, then a model, had lodged a complaint against Bhandarkar with Versova Police, accusing him of raping her 16 times between 1999 and 2004 under the pretext of casting her as an actress in his films. In a statement issued at that time, Preeti had said, “We had sex 16 times and Madhur made promises of giving me a lead role in his films. However, he didn't offer me a lead role in any of his movies. At times when I refused, he raped me.“
 
 Bhandarkar, however, had insisted that the complaint was of “cheating“ and did not mention rape. In 2005, Preeti was arrested for hiring a contract killer to murder Bhadarkar, the maker of acclaimed movies like 'Page 3', 'Traffic Signal' and 'Chandni Bar'.
 
 She had paid Pardeshi Rs 40,000 of the promised Rs 75,000 and was caught when she approached Akhil Bhartiya Sena (ABS) to help her get back her money when he failed to execute the job. Bhandarkar was among the 51 witnesses, who deposed before the trial court. The rape case that Jain had filed was cited by the prosecution to prove that she had all reasons to kill Bhandarkar when police closed the file.
 
 Other important evidence that the prosecution, led by Manohar Kandalkar, cited was call data records between Pardeshi and Jain, both of whom hail from Dagdi Chawl. An advocate who gave the Agdipada police the tip-off that Jain was out to get her money back since the contract job did not work out was another important witness.
 
 The prosecution claimed that arms and ammunition were procured from Lucknow and were kept at the house of one of the accused, who is now no more. It was also said that Jain provided details to the contract killers, including picture of Bhandarkar and his close friend Ashok Pandit, who was also a witness in the case.
 
 Another contention made by the prosecution was that even though she was a Jain, a burkha was recovered from her house. It was said that she used the burkha to hide her identity when she went to meet one of the accused.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
