HYDERABAD: Much before the bone-chilling shoot-out at Austin’s Bar & Grill in Olathe, Kansas, the outflow of IT professionals from the city for on-site assignments in the US had seen a steep drop. The primary reason was the massive cost-cutting measures being adopted by IT firms.

 “That, coupled with better facilities here (to interact with clients abroad), has led to a reduction in number of staffers being sent on-site. Also, previously clients insisted on physically meeting the executives providing services to them. Now, they do not. It also helps them save on travel and accommodation costs for flying in resources from here,” said  , president of   (HYSEA). 
 
 While at least 25% of Hyderabad’s workforce operated out of on-site locations earlier, the count has dropped to a mere 10%, he added.
 
 IT professionals agree that the frequency of their overseas travel has decreased significantly. “It has been dropping marginally over the last few years. In recent times, the change in trend is more apparent and that’s largely because IT companies are tightening their purse strings,” said Rahul Basu, an industry employee.
 
 Market analysts say that the numbers are likely to further nosedive if the legislation on increasing the minimum wages of H1B visa holders from $60,000 to $130,000 per annum becomes a reality. 
 
 “Even now, the companies that are sending staffers on-site are cutting corners in terms of the arrangements that are on offer there. Instead of hotels, they are settling for lodges and are trying to negotiate a lesser per day wage,” said Satish Arora. He said that some of his colleagues scheduled to go on-site next week to the US have put their plans on hold for these reasons. 
 
 “Anyway, the atmosphere there isn’t particularly safe. To be put up in lodges that are far from the place of work and are not very safe is ridiculous,” he said.
 
 Industry bodies here say that it is too soon to press the alarm button. While condemning the  , they said that they’ll “wait and watch” for some more time before issuing any official advisory to their employees based out of the US or travelling to the country soon.
 
