PUNE: Sharad Pawar’s entry into the campaign for the civic poll in Pune has sent the   into a huddle. As Pawar has started galvanizing support for the NCP from all corners of the city, BJP leaders are reorganizing their poll strategy. 

 NCP sources said Pawar senior, who had kept himself away from campaigning so far, decided to jump into action after reports that the NCP had a fair chance to retain power and the BJP will not have a cakewalk. 
 
 “There would be a neck-and-neck fight between the NCP and the BJP. Hence, the NCP president decided to address rallies and hold meetings with various stakeholders. Pawar would be meeting key actors in the city’s socio-political arena,” an NCP leader said, adding that Pawar has met traders, jewellers and minority community members.
 
 Pawar may met community leaders and businessmen to ensure that they stand firm with the NCP. “Pawar’s presence in the campaign itself is an indication that the NCP is strongly in the race and is confident enough to get a majority or emerge as the single largest party. Pawar would not have joined the campaign if the picture was gloomy for the party,” an NCP candidate said.
 
  sources said Pawar is playing a key role to ensure that the NCP and the Congress leaders have at least some joint meetings in Pune. The NCP and the Congress have joined hands for some seats and are in a friendly tussle in some wards. 
 
 Meanwhile, Pawar in his public rallies, has been attacking chief minister   saying that he has lost control over the state and failed to deliver. Speaking in Hadapsar, he said the CM has set up a laundry to clean criminals for whom he has opened the doors of his party. 
 
 Pawar’s active participation has spooked the BJP leaders in the city who met to discuss a strategy to tackle his moves. Party leaders plan to visit community members whom Pawar has met and will rope in cabinet ministers to speak to business and traders’ community.
 
 Senior BJP leaders admitted that Pawar would create trouble for BJP. “We are keeping a close watch. We face a problem in taking him on directly because of his stature and proximity to Prime Minister  . The BJP government has awarded him a Padma Vibhushan. We will invite the chief minister for another round of campaign to take on Pawar,” one of them said. 
 
 A senior BJP leader said Pawar’s active role has helped the divided BJP come together. “The RSS leaders and sympathizers have assured us that despite their unhappiness over BJP’s style of functioning and selection of candidates, they will work for the BJP. Notwithstanding Modi’s praises for Pawar, he remains the bête noire for RSS and BJP workers,” the leader said. 
 
