Nagpur: The traffic islands at various junctions across the city are shrinking. The islands are meant to install only traffic signals but the spots are also being used for erecting mobile towers, installing circuit box of CCTV cameras, display boards etc.  These islands are used by pedestrians for crossing the road. The various obstructions are causing inconvenience to them.  “The traffic islands are turning into a dangerous spot for road users as they can’t spot vehicles coming in from every direction due to the obstructions,” said activist and secretary of Parivartan — The Citizens’ Forum Dinesh Naidu. “Erecting poles or creating hurdles on traffic islands also defy Indian Road Congress guidelines,” he claimed.  A senior NMC traffic department official admitted that blocking a traffic island amounts to violation of guidelines regarding roads and footpaths. “Traffic island is significant as it serves the pedestrians,” the officer said. The problem started a few years ago when the NMC started allowing commercialization of traffic islands to generate revenue. Firstly, the estate department permitted advertisements on the islands. A private firm erected hoardings on islands at 50 busy junction, including Liberty Talkies T-point, Law College Square, Munje Chowk and Sahakar Nagar Square. Later, department allowed Reliance Jio to erect 4G masts at over 100 locations in the city, mostly on the traffic islands. Though the firm had secured all permissions, pedestrian safety was not ensured. These masts have no barricading and are a hindrance to free movement of pedestrians as well as the traffic police personnel posted at the junctions. Team TOI on Saturday visited Rani Jhansi Square, Laxmi Bhuvan Square, Bhole Petrol Pump Square, Akashwani Square, Ladies Club Square etc where traffic islands have been used for erecting utility poles. The traffic islands near Poonam Chambers on Koradi Road have been completely barricaded. “It seems that in its desperation to make money, the NMC has put the entire city up for sale, overlooking pedestrians’ safety,” said Naidu.  The footpaths too are either encroached upon by unauthorized vendors or made inaccessible by obstacles in the form of electricity junction boxes, parked vehicles, garbage bins, shops, signboards, wires etc Last year, according to traffic police records, nearly 92 pedestrians died on city’s roads. Till June 30 this year 30 pedestrians have been killed in road accidents.  Lawyer Tushar Mandlekar, who is secretary of International Society for Road Transport and Safety, criticized NMC’s move commercially exploit traffic islands. According to him, when new projects are planned in islands, pedestrian safety should be taken into consideration. “But most of the new projects in the city are not pedestrian-friendly,” he said giving example of islands where advertisements boards have been erected.