PANAJI: The   ( ) will no longer remain a ‘tournament’ or a league only in name.
 
  The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) is almost certain to consider the request of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) and accord official status to the three-year-old tournament. AIFF officials held detailed discussion with the   earlier this month in Bahrain and general secretary   is expected to give the go-ahead when he meets AIFF president Praful Patel and general secretary Kushal Das in the Capital on Wednesday.
  
  “We made a proposal to the AFC and they said they are willing to consider. They will let us know. The I-League will remain the top league. For the next two or three years, there has to be a transition. There is no perfect solution as of now. I think this is the right way to move ahead in a time-bound manner,” AIFF president Praful Patel told TOI in an exclusive interview.
  
  According to the AIFF proposal, the AFC   play-off slot will be reserved for the I-League champions while the ISL champions will qualify directly for the AFC Cup, Asian football’s second-tier club competition.
  
  An earlier proposal for one additional slot has been rejected by the AFC, while plans to give a continental slot for the Super Cup champions have been kept on hold. The Super Cup, a contest between the top four teams from the I-League and ISL, will be played towards the end of season and will replace the existing Federation Cup, reserved for the eight best teams in the country.
  
  “We will have discussions with the AFC general secretary on Wednesday. We have already made a presentation on what the situation is (in Indian football) and AFC had asked for time to discuss the proposal with the competitions committee.
  
  “What we discussed with AFC was simple. The Champions League slot will be for the I-League champions since it’s our official league. But since the ISL duration will be extended to five or six months, and it’s a proper league, we can think of giving the league a special status,” said Das.
  
  The ISL is set to be expanded to 10 teams this season with Federation Cup champions Bengaluru FC heavily tipped to win the bid for the Bengaluru franchise.   have also picked up the bid papers and shared them with  .
  
  Bids have been invited from prospective team owners for 10 cities which include Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cuttack, Durgapur, Hyderabad, Jamshedpur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Siliguri and Thiruvananthapuram.
  
  
