BENGALURU:   factories making 87 items, including 39 listed under the weapons section, are set to lose the charge, with the ministry of defence (MoD) directing the   to buy them from the private sector.

 The decision comes two months after PM   ordered all ordnance factories to “provide a complete listing of products manufactured, along with a photo description of each product, number of items... produced and their value”. TOIhad broken the story on February 22.
 
 The MoD has asked the ordnance factories to either “wind up or put to alternative use the production facilities for these items in the absence of orders from the user (Army)”.
 
 Of the 87 items, 48 are troop comfort articles — from blankets and socks to boots and rain capes, et al. The 39 items under the weapons section include 12 types of ammunition boxes, three types of bombs, seven types of empty shells, two types of binoculars and three vehicles, including the Stallion MK-IV truck.
 
 Declaring the 39 items “non-core”, the department of defence production ( ), under the MoD, said in a circular dated April 27: “These can be sourced from the trade (read private sector)... Army can procure them without an NOC (no objection certificate) from the OFB ( ).”
 
 Earlier, the Army was required to get an NOC if it wanted to procure these items from sources other than ordnance factories.
 
 However, a “minimum 40% value addition (by indigenous firms) is mandatory and the component details to be included in the 40% may be specified by the DPP where required”, Elvius Lakra, undersecretary in-charge of production (I and III categories) said. Over the past three years, the DDP has declared some other items “noncore” but never at this magnitude.
 
 On why such a decision was made, the department explains it is “a measure to improve operational efficiency of expenditure”. The decision was taken after two committees were constituted to study and submit recommendations to the MoD.
 
 Following the circular, the OFB, in an official communication to the factories concerned, has sought details pertaining to manpower among other things. The units affected together employ 16,000 people, and the employees are protesting against the move, terming it “arbitrary” and claiming that even the OFB was not consulted before it was made.
 
 
 
 
