HYDERABAD: The   on Friday dismissed a public interest petition that questioned the Supreme Court’s delay in appointing a regular   to the high court and in filling the posts of judges lying vacant for several years.

 The bench of Justice V Ramasubramanian and   Uma Devi pronounced its judgement in a plea filed by senior counsel S Satyam Reddy, who termed the inaction of the authorities as unconstitutional. The bench, in its order, recalled the recent assurance given by the   that it is in the process of filling up all vacancies on an urgent basis. 
 
 Giving direction to the apex court and asking it to do what it is already doing makes no sense and also runs against judicial discipline, it said. The bench did not agree with the argument that a high court refusing to entertain a plea against the Supreme Court despite having jurisdiction to do so amounts to servility. 
 
 Acting in tune with judicial discipline should not be seen as subordination, the bench said and added that the apex court itself asks several litigants to first approach the relevant high courts if it finds that certain litigants came to it straight. Even we ask litigants to go to tribunals and other judicial forums if they come straight to us without exhausting the available judicial remedies, the bench said. 
 
 The bench also questioned the petitioner’s claims in terming only four of the existing judges in the high court as belonging to Telangana. There are others as well who were born and brought up in Telangana, it said and asked if it was fair to term them as non Telanganites despite the Presidential Order recognising such persons as locals of Telangana. 
 
 The bench reminded the petitioner that the high court may have to face an uphill task in selecting the locals of Telangana as judges if the nativity clause is to be taken into consideration. If one wants to trace ancestry to declare whether a person is a local or not, then it becomes a difficult situation, the bench said and dismissed the plea of the petitioner as not maintainable. 
 
