PANAJI:   (ISRO) is looking at rip current occurrences along India’s west coast, including Goa. The study will also look into the fatalities caused by rip currents in important locations in Goa which, as a tourist destination, attracts several people to its beaches.

 The study, which is being undertaken with the support of  , is the first study of its kind being carried out in India by ISRO and is being conducted by a team of scientists at Space Applications Centre (SAC),  , an ISRO official said.
 
 “Rip currents and under water currents are two of the significant causes leading to rescue operations along Goa’s coast as per incident reports maintained by Drishti Lifesaving. In January itself our lifeguards rescued 30 swimmers from 23 related incidents reported along the beach stretches in the no-swim zones,” said director of   said.
 
 The team of scientists developed a specialized drifter using the   (IRNSS), Navigation with Indian Constellation (NaVIC) receiver and searched for the presence of active rips along Goa’s beaches. A rip current at Calangute, to which several tourists have fallen prey, was identified.
 
 “In the experiment, which was recorded with a drone camera, our team observed the strong rip current and even recorded its effects extending 90m from the shoreline. ISRO is looking forward to conduct, in collaboration with Drishti, a more detailed study on the factors responsible for the formation of rip currents along Goa’s coastline, thereby improving public safety,” SAC scientist at ISRO Arun Kumar said.
 
 Rip currents are one of the most common currents which exist in the open sea along Goa’s coast with a higher rate of incidents recorded at Calangute, Baga, Anjuna and Colva beaches.
 
 Kumar has previously studied the frequency of fatalities from rip currents, their cause, and their spatial distributions and he says that the frequency of rip current drownings has shown a marked increase during shore-normal wave incidence and mid-low tidal stages.
 
