AURANGABAD: Water supply in two thirds of the city was severely disrupted on Monday following a major leak in the civic body’s main   near the railway station. 

 This is the fifth time in the last 20 days, when the main pipeline has broken and the supply system was thrown out of gear. Municipal authorities attending to the repair said they could restore supply by late evening, but it would certainly disrupt the city’s water supply system.
 
 Civic officials confirmed that taps in the old city, Garkheda, Naregaon, Padegaon, Shahbazar, Pahadsinghpura and other localities have been running dry. Water supply system through tankers was also disturbed on Monday as most elevated storage reservoirs are running dry. The impact of the shutdown will be felt in many areas on Tuesday.
 
 Kiran   (AMC) sectional engineer told TOI that a major leakage developed near the railway station on Sunday night. “The leak developed at the joint of 1,400mm and 700mm pipelines, and so we have to switch off both the lines till repair work is done,” he said, adding that it may take around 20 hours to restore the line.
 
 The AMC is drawing water from the   dam through two main pipelines — one through the 1,400-mm-thick pipeline and another that is 700-mm thick.
 
 Sartaj Singh Chahel, executive engineer in has recently told TOI that the supply lines the city and the Jaykwadi water reserviour are too old to sustain the pressure. Because of constant friction, the pipes have deteriorated from various spots and leakages are occurring every now and then. There is only one option to prevent it and that is laying new pipeline, he said.
 
 A senior AMC officer said the 700mm line was installed in 1975, while the 1,400mm line was installed between 1990 and 1991. “The AMC is using the pipelines beyond their capacity. Most joints and air valves are also very old and need to be replaced soon,” he said.
 
 The back-to-back leaks followed by shutdowns is aggravating water scarcity. “We want the civic body to take immediate action and stop these frequent leaks. Residents can’t afford to face water scarcity during summer,” corporator   said.
 
