GURUGRAM: On Saturday evening, a festival of classical dance turned one corner of this city into an atmospheric ‘sabha’ one might encounter in any town or city in India’s southern states. Except that here were youngsters, full of nervy vigour, and their parents, a mix of worry and excitability, thronged inside the auditorium of Excelsior American School.

  Through the Mudra Dance Academy, danseuse  , a graduate of   (a university of art and culture), has been endeavouring to revive and promote the country’s traditions of classical choreography. ‘Nrityotsav 2017’, held on the weekend, was the school’s seventh annual day, an event in which, over two magical hours and 12 effervescent recitals, young dancers did themselves proud.
 
  Nair has been training Gurgaon’s children in Mohiniyattam, Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi since 2009. Her academy has 56 students, and all of them were part of the festival. There were participants as young as five years old, and as old as 16. The tiny tots who took to the stage for the Bharatanatyam Ganesh Stuti, the opening act of the evening, were aged between five and eight, each a bundle of adorable energy, still clearly getting to grips with the intricacies of a dance form but undeniably eager to delight.
 
  The only solo recital of the evening was by  , 12, who positively dazzled in the Bharatanatyam Padam, a dance performed in praise of Lord Shiva. There was also the folky charm of ‘Kavadi Chindu’, presented in celebration of Lord   (‘Murugan’ in Tamil Nadu). But each of Nair’s apprentices shone. Junior or senior, they disarmed everyone with their ability and enthusiasm.
 
  Indian classical dance demands rigour in practice, immense focus in presentation – and lots of stamina. Mastery, of course, comes much later (if at all), but these girls clearly showed they’re willing to embrace the hard work that goes into every presentation. More important, though, was the sense of enjoyment each conveyed on the stage. The journey may be arduous, but the scenic stops make it all worthwhile.
 
  And it’s as much a journey for Nair, an enriching one at that, as she continues to dedicate herself to upholding India’s centuries-old and rich traditions of performing arts. Having performed in India and abroad, and been part of ICCR (Indian Council for Cultural Relations) retinues to Europe, it’s her way of devotedly giving back to the heritage that has adopted and rewarded her.
 
 
