NAGPUR: A woman controller of Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR), who sought voluntary retirement (VRS) after a 28-year service in December 2016, is running pillar to post for her statutory pension benefits which the administration has held up.

 During the last 4 months,   is undergoing mental agony to seek pension benefits which are due to her. The personnel branch has told her that her maiden name in the railways continue to be after her father's name as  . Whereas she has become Janet Mary Joseph Rao after marriage.
 
 Rao had a good service track record. She was awarded  's & General Manager's award over a period of time. She was first lady assistant station master (ASM) of 1988 batch. Rao was transferred to Nagpur in 1989 and later she rose to become deputy chief controller till taking VRS.
 
 She approached the personnel department on February 5, 2017 but the concerned officer gave a negative response.
 
 Rao was issued regular privilege passes since April 1991 after marriage. A simple wedding invitation was submitted in 1991 to prove her marriage and included husband as family.
 
 The railways also accepted Form 16 of income tax department and investments, NSC saving certificates with the name Janet Mary Joseph Rao all these years. No officer even questioned all those 26 years after marriage and name change.
 
 Rao made several representations to administration and even wrote to SECR GM, Bilaspur, on March 8. She also submitted copies of Aadhar card, marriage certificate, affidavit of marriage, bank pass book which all carry her name as Janet Mary Joseph Rao.
 
 She visited the ‘Pension Adalat’ of SECR DRM and again submitted a set all relevant documents on March 15. By this time Rao’s name was also duly published by gazette notification of Maharashtra government on March 9-15. She also aired her grievance in the Grievance Redressal Cell of department of pension on March 21, with a reminder later on.
 
 However, DRM AK Agarwal says problem is not with the railways. “We credited her salary in bank account with new name. However, the pension fund is maintained by central government, where the maiden name is mentioned and hence the issue.”
 
 Yet, Agrawal said, “We are in process of finalizing Rao’s application which we have received recently. The issue of pension will also be cleared. We are ready to meet her if she has any issues.”
 
 Rao is planning to move railway minister   before launching an agitation in front of DRM’s office.
 
