AHMEDABAD: In an official operation conducted for the first time by Gujarat   (ATS) with  , the   nabbed   of Borsad from a hotel in   of Bangkok. Patel is alleged to have masterminded the murder attempt on Borsad councillor Pragnesh Patel. He will be brought back to India within two days, ATS officials said.

 SP (ATS) Himanshu Shukla said before Pragnesh was shot at on January 13, 2017 by underworld don Ravi Pujari's Thane-based shooter Suresh Pillai, Gujarat ATS had nabbed Pillai, Sagir Momin of Surat and Ghanshyamgiri Goswami of Borsad last Tuesday.
 
 Sources in the ATS said this came to light during questioning of the accused. Chandresh Patel, who runs a cable network in Borsad, had several disputes with Pragnesh Patel.
 
 “However the enmity between the two grew bitter after Chandresh's mother, Shanta Patel, was defeated by Pragnesh Patel in the recently held local body elections,“ a source in the ATS said.
 
 ATS officials said that to take revenge, Chandresh contacted Suresh Pillai through a common con tact named Suresh Anna (an accused in a narcotics case) and offered him Rs 25 lakh to eliminate Pragnesh Patel. “Pillai was sheltered by Pujari who used to send money to him through hawala. However they lost touch as Pujari was unable to send him money because of demonetization,“ said a senior ATS official.
 
 After Pillai and his men landed in Borsad to kill Pragnesh Patel, Chandresh left for Bangkok on January 10. Sources in the ATS said that on January 13, while Momin drove the bike, Pillai shot at Pragnesh Patel thrice. Later, Momin fled to Surat and Pillai to Thane. Patel survived the attack.
 
 ATS officials confirmed that soon after arresting the three accused, a team led by inspector Vijay Malhotra was dispatched to Bangkok officially.
 
 “With adequate support from central agencies, we conducted a joint operation with Bangkok police late on Tuesday night and nabbed Chandresh Patel from a hotel in Prutonoma area of the city . Our team will return with Chandresh Patel after completing the deportation formalities,“ said a senior ATS official.
 
