THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Manickal grama panchayat is well on its way to become the first village panchayat in the district to set up a   unit. The panchayat has got into an agreement with Santhigiri ashram to set up a   on ashram premises. The panchayat authorities have taken the ashram land on lease for a period of fifteen years.

 The panchayat foregrounds this project as the first step towards imposing a complete ban on use of plastic carry bags in the panchayat modelled on plastic carry bag ban imposed by the city corporation. While the panchayat took a leaf out of the city corporation with regard to imposing ban on plastic bag, it has completely reversed the implementation procedure unlike corporation which first banned bags and then initiated proposals to supply alternatives.
 
 Panchayat president Sujatha S said that they are focusing on reducing use of plastic in a phased manner. “As the first step we are setting up a recycling unit with the help of Santhigiri ashram. The land of the ashram was chosen for implementing the scheme so as to facilitate smooth functioning of the plant without any local protests,” said Sujatha.
 
 The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. The recycling unit will have a collection counter and a shredding unit. Panchayat plans to get the unit functional by next month.
 
 “We have drawn out a step by step methodology to reduce use of plastic. In addition to setting up a recycling unit, we are giving training to 60 selected women from various wards in the manufacture of cloth bags with the support of IMG. Once the plant becomes functional and training is completed, we could recycle the available plastic and at the same time ensure availability of alternatives,” Sujatha added.
 
 The panchayat had initially planned to set up the plant on 1.1 acre puramboke land available at Manickal. However the idea was dropped dreading local protest. “The agreement with Ashram does not involve money for either parties. We only need to invest in machinery. Even the workforce will be taken care of by ashram by employing ashram inmates,” said Sujatha.
 
 The panchayat has already initiated collection of plastic in all the six schools across 21 wards. “Awareness is the key to implementing the project. We used NSS cadets to impart awareness in schools. Besides plastic collection drives were conducted in three wards; Santhigiri, Koliyakode and Theepukal. With the plant becoming functional, we are planning to organize collection drives 2-3 times a month,” said Lekhakumari S, chairperson of health and education standing committee.
 
 The lease agreement was finalized with ashram after obtaining special sanction from the state government. The foundation stone of the plant was laid by  , organizing secretary of Santhigiri ashram on Monday. The plant is being constructed on the agriculture zone at Santhigiri ashram.
 
