AHMEDABAD: The annual report for the year 2016-17 issued by the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmer welfare shows that there was an overall drop of 22.1 lakh tonnes in   across the nation, while 35% of that – 7.84 lakh tonnes was in Gujarat alone. Oilseed production in the state has been on a downward trend over the last five years with the average   sowing area at 23.30 lakh hectares in  . In 2011-12, this was 31.31 lakh hectares. While the sowing area has seen a decline of 17.5% oilseed crop produce declined by over 18.5% in the state.

 Officials in the agriculture department say that oilseed production took a hit as farmers moved towards growing BT cotton which had greater yield and fetched better prices.
 
 The report further suggested oilseed production be incentivized. It stated, “in order incentivize production of other oilseeds a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal, payable over and above the MSP, be given for groundnut, sunflower seed, soybean.”
 
 Officials said overall oilseed sowing this year, 2016-17, was across an area of 24.87 lakh hectare which was slightly higher than the current average sowing area. Groundnut has the lion’s share of Gujarat’s oilseed production, say agriculture officers, while sesame, castor, soybean are also important oilseeds.
 
 Officials said that the decline in groundnut sowing had resulted in an increase in the sowing of cotton in the state. Apart from this, in the year 2016-17 there is also an increase in the sowing of pulses including tur as prices of pulses have been increasing meteorically since 2015.
 
 Dr K L Dobariya, research scientist (groundnut) at the Junagadh Agriculture University echoed similar feelings. He further said that apart from cotton, the delay in onset of monsoon had led to sowing of vegetables and other crop but not groundnut. He said that last year, too, monsoon was delayed and insufficient and as a result the farmers began moving away from groundnut cultivation which gives good yields only if sowing can be done by mid-July. Low prices for castor seeds was also a reason for the decline in castor cultivation said Dobariya.
 
