MADURAI: The water level in   was nearly 40 feet more than what it is today on January 1, 2016. Even then Madurai city faced a water crisis in August, forcing the city corporation to reschedule water supply to once in four days for each ward. Looks like the city will face a water crisis even before the month is over. 

 There is a slight increase in the inflow to Vaigai dam and the level is showing a very small increase compared to mid-December. But there is still a long way to go, say PWD sources. Last year, the dam level stood at 63 feet against today's 25.36 feet. The total depth of the dam is 71 feet, of which, the last 15 feet is silt. As water stored there would be dead storage, it cannot be used.
 
 In September, 2015, the Tamil Nadu government announced that 1.45 crore will be sanctioned for desilting the dam. But that did not happen. When a public interest litigation to this effect was filed before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, it was informed that steps were being taken to desilt the dam. But as the clock keeps ticking, Madurai is being forced into a water crisis. 
 
 In May 2014, the water level in the dam was as low as 21 feet, the lowest in a decade. With the higher climatic temperatures, the loss of water due to evaporation would be more now.
 
 PWD sources say the inflow to the dam was just 63 cusecs on Sunday, against last year's inflow on the same day of 1,900 cusecs. "Statistics show that the city will soon face one of the worst crisis situations, and the only solution would be to get some good rainfall in the next two weeks," an official told TOI. 
 
 The Madurai corporation has decided to lay an additional 150 borewells in the peripherals of the city to tide over the crisis, which would take the number of borewells laid in the 100 wards of the city corporation to 2,135. Only 72 wards of the corporation have pipelines, which provide water from Vaigai. The rest do not get drinking water, while water from high salinity levels are pumped from the tanks in the vicinity of the wards.
 
 Laying borewells near Vaigai dam, as done during the reign of  , would be more beneficial than laying them in the city where the water level has gone beyond 800 feet in many places, according to PWD sources. "It would save money and also be more fruitful, as wells upto a depth of 50 feet could yield more water than those laid to the depth of 800 feet in the city," the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, district president of the  , A Asokan, said that laying borewells is a wasted exercise, as a new borewell laid to a depth of 800 feet in   yielded water only for an hour. "More concrete steps should be taken to harvest the rainwater, by improving the rainwater harvesting systems and also encouraging the same along roads," he said. 
 
 "Water is available in many parts of the city now. It is a result of the measures taken by late chief minister   in 2006 to make rainwater harvesting a must at all buildings," he added.
 
