BENGALURU: There is no room for self-pity while preparing for science and maths.If you find them hard, study harder. Students and teachers say there is no single formula to crack the two dreaded subjects. It's a combination of rigour, good teachers and practice.“If you're weak in mathematics, you cannot just feel bad about it and do nothing.That hampers motivation and your confidence plunges further. It's crucial to be open to advices and opinions to help improve your preparation levels that matter the most. No one can be bad at math,“ says J Madhav, a second year preuniversity student of  .

 Before heading to the exam hall, Chirag Dev, a Class 10 student at BASE, has already revised for his crucial science paper twice. “Science is to be understood while maths is to be prep a r e d . That's the key. For science, I make notes for every chapter in 10 to 15 points, so I'm not just studying for one exam but preparing for any interim tests too,“ Chirag says.
 
 Saamiya Zeba, a Class 12 student of Chethana PU college says involving family members in the preparations is crucial. “Talking to my parents brings out up new ideas for preparation and helps me introspect.“
 
 “It's important to know your strengths and weaknesses. I need to focus more on maths and physics as they need logical application. I study the two subjects for at least half an hour every day .Biology and chemistry are easier,“ says Sharon Prithika, a Class 10 student of Sacred Hearts School.
 
 For some, time of the day matters for studying the two subjects. Sujith J, a student of Chethana PU College, practices mathematics early morning. His says that the subject must be practiced only when the mind is fresh and calm.Some say studying in a closed room, with no disturbance, is the ideal way to go about maths and science.
 
 For identical twins Bindu Krishnamurthy and  , who will be joining their degree courses soon, group studying is quite helpful. “We have never studied by ourselves. We always study together or in a group.We realized when we study together and discuss concepts, we learn better,“ says Bindu.
 
 Sudarshan HV, who studies in Class 12 and attends BASE coaching centre, however, says locking oneself in a room for 6 hours to 7 hours isn't healthy. A short break is a must after three hours. He also says that reference books matter a lot in preparation but only if chosen wisely. “Sometimes even the size of the font used in books matter. Too small is difficult to comprehend. One must also not refer too many books, two or three are enough,“ he says.
 
 Mock tests students appear for in coaching centres and schools must be looked at in different ways too, adds Sudarshan. “Most students get worried when they don't score well in mock tests, anticipating similar results in final exams. Mock tests must be used as practice tests to time yourself and know how prepared you are to take the finals,“ Sudarshan adds.
 
 Make learning a joy; motivate students for better results
 
 
 
 Teaching mathemat ics to stu dents of classes 11 and 12 for the past 30 years, Shob ha Sundar of Vidya Niketan School believes there is no one formula to make maths interesting for students. “Helping students just before exams won't help.Instead, students should be motivated to practice the subject every day,“ she says.
 
 Shobha pointed out that the practice of carrying a formula sheet with all equations written on them to revise before the exam is not a healthy practice. “An increased dependence on that one sheet will lead to students facing difficulties in the exam hall where they can't use it,“ she adds.
 
 “Increased focus on theory has led to students believing that studying a day before exam helps,“ says Rashmi Karia, principal, Chetana PU College. “Rather than try to memorize, children need to understand the concepts and try to relate them to what they observe in their daily life,“ says Prof Y K Jayaramappa, CEO, BASE Educational Services.
 
 BENGALURU SCHOOL STUDENT ACES OLYMPIADS
 
 Ayush Gupta, a Class 3 student of HSR Layout's National Public School bagged first rank in the National Science Olympiad (Nov 15, 2016) and the International English Olympiad (Jan 19, 2017) and the school first rank in the National Cyber Olympiad (2016).
 
 The 9-year-old kid says he's not a bookworm. Hooked to mobile apps and videos to prepare for his exams, Ayush has mastered the nittygritty of technology that gave him the edge during the cyber Olympiad.
 
 His mother Sweta says, “He is hard working but has never been a bookworm. He just studies for an hour in the evening. The questions in the Olympiads were complicated. His teachers and I ensured he was prepared.“ An aspiring astronaut, he has also developed a quizzing application as part of his school exhibition project.
 
 -Rakshitha R
 
 M'LURU BOY SELECTED FOR MATHS OLYMPIAD
 
 Mangaluru student Aditya Prakash has been selected along with five others from across the country to represent India in 2017 International Mathematics Olympiad (IMO) this summer.
 
 He is the first student from Karnataka in the past 21 years to represent India at IMO.Prakash will participate in International Mathematics Olympiad 2017 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in July. The team will compete with more than 400 students from nearly 100 countries. 
 
 
