NEW DELHI: The government and   were in agreement that introduction of a new series of notes could provide a “very rare” opportunity to tackle counterfeiting, terror financing and black money through  , the central bank has said. In its submission to Parliament’s standing committee on finance,   said the decision to demonetise came in the background of the central bank, in consultation with the government, working on new notes with improved security features.

 “It occurred to the government and RBI that introduction of new series of notes could provide a very rare and profound opportunity to tackle... counterfeiting, terror finance and black money by demonetising bank notes in high denominations of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 or by withdrawing legal tender status,” the RBI said. “Though no firm decision was taken initially, whether to demonetise of not, preparations still went on for introduction of a new series of notes as that was needed in any case,” the RBI told the committee. 
 
 The background to the RBI’s central board recommendation to withdraw Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 as legal tender was a growing concern about the need to secure bank notes against counterfeiting.
 
 “The government considered the same, and after deliberation, advised on May 18, 2016, their in principle decision to introduce notes of Rs 2,000,” the RBI said. So while RBI said its recommendation to scrap Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes came after it was “advised” by the government on November 7, 2016 — a day ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s shock announcement — it was in sync with the move.
 
 The finance committee is set to examine the RBI’s response and seek clarifications from RBI governor   on January 18. The committee will also consider the submissions of the department of economic affairs and the department of financial services which were received by the parliamentary panel recently.
 
 The government has described demonetisation as a “bold” move and said there was a need to inflict a “sudden blow” to the fake currency network as “gradualism” — replacing old high denomination notes over a period of time —would enable conversion of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) stocks to other denominations or new currency.
 
