The question playing on an incessant loop in the minds of Chennai folks, most of last week, was the question that had seized most of the country, too: Why did   kill  ? Now, that was the singular most pressing reason why theatres in the city drew record crowds and getting a ticket to  : The Conclusion was like performing a superhuman feat. So, while slaking their curiosity to the question that had wormed its way to their mind space was why the film was buzzing here, the cinema-crazy people of Chennai just stopped shy of giving the film the reception it was accorded in other southern cities.

 For starters, pal abhishekhams and cut-outs, Chennai has conclusively shown, is not for mega-budget films, but for mega heroes from their own industry. There were no scenes of fan frenzy in the theatres, unlike what happens during the release of films starring  , Kamal Haasan, Vijay and Ajith.
 
 The kind of fervour and feverish frenzy that one saw during the release of Kabali was definitely missing. There was hype, hoopla, anticipation, excitement, but the hysteria and madness that grips the city when a Thalaivar movie releases was not to be seen. Perhaps that is why Bãhubali: The Conclusion fell just a wee bit short of bettering the opening day and opening weekend records set by Kabali last year. 
 
 And yet, the BO collections of Bãhubali continues to soar and create all kinds of records, and the movie franchise itself is on its way to becoming a landmark in the annals of Indian cinema. But fans in Chennai also seem to say that they will still reserve the loudest applause, cheer, and celebrations for our home-grown movie idols and icons.
 
 
 
 
 
 South Indian centres are known to have maximum shows of big ticket films on the first day. This time around, a cinema hall in Kerala had as many as 17 shows in a single day. Since multiplexes had no shows till evening, the hoity toity crowd of Kerala went to the single screens to watch the film, unable to keep their patience in check.
 
 
 
 Videos of queues that extend in kilometres just to get one ticket to watch the film on the first day in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana went viral. 
 
 
 
 Many metroplitan cities had extremely high priced tickets, which even crossed ` 1,000. This had people creating memes that compared different things they could buy for the same amount.
 
 
 
 Not too often do South Indian films get takers in theatres in Northeast India. But places in Assam had people thronging to watch why Kattappa killed   on the first day, a record of sorts. 
 
 
