NAGPUR: The 7.2 km long   flyover being built by National Highways Authority of India ( ) may join the long list of city’s infrastructure projects that were not completed on time. 

 There are various reasons for the delay but the biggest one is Nagpur Improvement Trust’s reluctance to remove roadside encroachments. At present, the project is four months behind schedule. It has to be completed by March 2019.
 
 A source in NHAI told TOI that the agency had been corresponding with NIT since two years about the encroachments but nothing had happened. 
 
 “NIT either refused to accept that there were encroachments on the road or has been giving vague assurances. The encroachers say that they have not encroached on the road. We are helpless,” he said.
 
 NIT chairman Dipak Mhaisekar, however, trashed the road agency’s charges. “Only last week, three NHAI officials had met me. I had told them that they should suggest a suitable date for removing encroachments and we will do the job,” he said.
 
 The Rs 448-crore Pardi flyover has five arms. The arm going towards Vaishnav Devi Chowk is free of encroachments. The minor encroachments on the arms going towards   market and Itwari have been removed. Work has started on these three arms. However, work is held up on the arms going towards   and Bhandara Road.
 
 The NHAI source said that if the roads below these arms were barricaded then there little space would be left for smooth flow of traffic. “We cannot start barricading the roads until the encroachments are removed. There are a total of 51 encroachments on the two roads,” he further said.
 
 There are other reasons for delay in the project too. “NHAI needs some land for building the ramps. We had applied to the NMC for acquiring this land about two years ago but NMC is yet to start the land acquisition process,” the source said.
 
 Two arms of the flyover — one going towards Manewada and the other going towards Bhandara Road — are common to NHAI and Mahametro. The flyover will be on the first level while the Metro will be on the second level. “The Metro agency is yet to submit the design details to NHAI. This, too, is delaying the project,” the source said.
 
 The flyover is already way behind schedule if the date of bhoomipujan is taken into account. Prime minister Narendra Modi had performed the bhoomipujan in April 2014 but the work began in March 2016.
 
 
