The cause of animals and nature is close to Duniya Vijay’s heart, so much so that whenever he finds free time, he spends it in the midst of wildlife. So, it was only natural for him to want to do a movie that highlights an issue about the wild. And the result of that, he says, was  . 

 
 
 For the past 8-10 years, whenever I had free time on hand, I would head into the forest. I got to learn a lot about how tigers were being killed for commercial gain. I thought that it would be a good line for a film and planned a story on that subject. That’s how Maasti Gudi came about. The movie highlights the need to save tigers, but it has been packaged in an entertaining way, with commercial aspects.
 
 
 
 I play a man who wants to save the forest and tigers. He has a close connection with the forest and goes after all those who seek to kill tigers. My character’s age ranges from 25-81 years. Playing the older roles required special preparation, since I had to pay attention to my body language and the way I speak. I also had to control my diet. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I enjoy being in the forest, so I really liked it. We secured permission from the forest department to shoot in certain areas and were careful to not go too deep into the forest, as that would disturb the wildlife. But, yes, there were several bugs and small animals like wildcats around during the shoot, which wasn’t a big deal for me, but it was strange and shocking for the rest of the cast and crew. Given our surroundings, we were all conscious about not making too much noise during the shoot. We also had to be alert at all times because anything can happen in the jungle.
 
 
 
 It is important for all of us to realize that everything in nature is interconnected, and this benefits human beings as well. As long as the   survives in the forest, we will continue to get water in our taps. Wild animals do not mean us harm — it is we who go to their habitat and cause them harm. We are the culprits. I hope that people realize this after they watch the movie. 
 
