BENGALURU: Indian badminton superstars PV   and   made light of their supposed rivalry, combining to play a doubles match here on Monday. Despite ending up on the losing side, they put on a thrilling show for the crowd that had gathered at the  .

 Representing employers Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited ( ) in the 38th Petroleum Sports Promotion Board championship, Sindhu and   fell 1921, 21-18, 20-22 to the   pair of   and Aparna Balan.
 
 "We have played before in the Uber Cup, but it's been many months since we did so," Sindhu said after the match. "Initially, it was confusing. Had we played a few times in a month, it would have been better. But we did well, after 20-20 it's anybody's game. We lost 20-22 in the third so it was good for the audience. I hope they enjoyed it." Sindhu stressed that her rivalry with Saina was restricted only to the badminton court. "That's where one should look to win, so obviously a rivalry will exist. Off court, we're normal. We don't meet much, just during tournaments because she stays in Bengaluru and I stay in Hyderabad. Earlier, she was a senior and I used to train with the juniors so we couldn't talk much," said the 21-year-old.
 
 Sindhu, who had a phenomenal 2016 winning an Olympic silver in Rio and her first Super Series Premier title in China, added a maiden Super Series title at the India Open this year defeating her bugbear  . She also captured the Syed Modi International Grand Prix Gold. " After a great 2016, it's been a good year. There is a lot more to achieve," she said.
 
 The world No. 4 said she was a more confident player as a result. "At this level, it's never easy even in the first round. I recently lost in the quarterfinals of the Asian championships. I could have made the semifinals but winning and losing is part of the game. It's important to be prepared and give 100%.
 
 "This is only the start for me and there's a long way to go. My next event is the Sudirman Cup...it's a team event so I want to give my best there. After that I will play in Indonesia and Australia," she said. 
 
