PATNA: Altogether 24 students were expelled by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) across the state for using unfair means during compartmental-cum-special exam for intermediate that concluded on Thursday. Over 1.32 lakh students appeared for the exams at 275 centres across the state. On Thursday, 108 candidates appeared for economics and 975 for home science papers.   chairman   Kishor said the exams concluded on a peaceful note under strict vigilance. According to the board, two examinees each were expelled in Madhepura, Arwal, Kaimur, one in Gaya, three in  , eight in Madhubani and six in Lakhisarai.

 Career counselling: The Alumni Association of St Michaels High School organised a career counselling session for Class X students on school campus on Thursday. The chief guest of the event was founder of Super 30 and mathematician Anand Kumar. He said one can achieve success only through discipline, hard labour and positive thinking. He suggested the students to learn the concept of the subject.
 
 “There are hundreds of ways to solve a problem, but you should choose three methods which are easy, familiar and less time consuming for you. Try to expand your ability,” Anand said. He also interacted with the students and answered the questions raised by them. “Regular course and school teaching are always better than coaching and campus-free study,” he added. 
 
 Dr Vikas Shankar, secretary of the association, also addressed the students. School principal Fr  , S.J. was also present on the occasion.
 
 Admission date extended: College of Commerce, Arts and Science on Thursday extended the last date of intermediate admission from July 15 to July 20 following several requests by students. College principal   said the list of selected candidates will be out on July 31.
 
 Orientation workshop: The two-day orientation workshop for coordinators, organised by   (NOU) at its 148 study centres, including Biscomaun Bhawan, concluded on Thursday. Addressing the workshop, NOU vice-chancellor R K Sinha said distance learning programme is the need of the hour. “Distance education has been embraced by several universities,” he said, adding from this year onwards, the university would take admission through both online and offline mode. “It will be applicable for all courses offered by the university,” said Sinha. 
 
