ASANSOL: After the police statewide, and in Kolkata, slapped charges against saffron leaders for brandishing swords in Ram Navami processions, chief minister   on Friday said she — and her administration — aren’t opposed to religious processions. “We have no problem with religious processions. But they have to take prior permission. If they do not, then they will have to face the (legal) consequences. Who do they think they are?” the chief minister asked.

 The chief minister’s statements at a function to announce the formation of Paschim   — Bengal’s 23rd district — ironically, were made at a place that witnessed many sword brandishing processions a few days back. 
 
 “Manush nei tai torowal dhoreche (they do not have people with them so they have held swords). They do not understand that the fire will raze both Hindu and Muslim homes. Their homes will not be safe, either,” she said. “Do politics like it should be done, politically. Religion and politics are not the same,” she said.
 
 “When I came here before, you told me that you wanted a district. Today, even that has been fulfilled. Tell me what more do you want. I do not believe in making false promises. I do not have to keep uttering Hindu-Muslim. I was born in a Hindu family, but it has taught me to respect other religions too. BJP wala ko kya patah (what do the BJP know). They can’t change age-old beliefs. Kya nautanki shuru kiya hai (what drama they have started),” the chief minister told the audience.
 
 “After Durga Puja, women in Bengal play with sindoor. They do that to pray for the well-being of all. They (saffron activists) are now playing with swords. Do they want to spill blood? Ram had offered his eyes to pray for  . Religion is about tolerance. Who is BJP to dictate us on our religious and social beliefs? Hindu Muslim me danga phasad nahi karne denge (I will not let any Hindu-Muslim riots happen),” she said. 
 
 “Some mischief mongers are throwing meat in places of religious worship. People are instigating trouble, deliberately. People are free to profess their own religion,” she said.
 
 Banerjee also took some time to explain the rationale of formation of smaller districts. “In the larger districts, the geographical spread tends to create many problems for the people. They often have to travel long distances to avail government services. Hence the need to form smaller administrative units. It will also help ease delivery of services to people. Now you don’t have to travel to Bardhaman, everything you need will be available in Asansol,” she said.
 
 The chief minister, while announcing a slew of projects, laid maximum stress on road connectivity.   announced a Rs 3000-crore PWD project to make a parallel road stretch from Moregram crossing (in Bardhaman) to north Bengal. “This will be a parallel connectivity,” she said. Announcing that the six-lane National Highway project has been fast tracked with the acquisition of 127 hectares of land, the chief minister said 15 smaller road stretches spanning 69 kilometres are also being developed. She also announced a housing scheme replete with 42,500 units to rehabilitate about 45,000 people affected in Ranigunj by land subsidence due to mining. 
 
 
