NOIDA: Two crane operators, working at a construction site of   in  , were electrocuted by an overhead 11 kV line on Thursday. The operators, both residents of Punjab, were employed by a contractor who fled from the spot after their deaths.

 The victims have been identified as Parminder alias Happy (25) and Lakhvinder alias Lucky (30).
 
 The Rs 5,763-crore Eastern Peripheral Expressway is aimed at decongesting Delhi. Construction work is in full swing for the 135-km road to be lit entirely by solar panels. The expressway passes through Sonipat, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Faridabad and Palwal in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 According to Ashwini Kumar, who was working with the two victims, both Lucky and Happy were on a crane which had multi-fold arch arms. Lucky was handling the boom machine and putting the sand in the mixture for construction of the highway. Happy was standing on the ground and coordinating with him. “In the process, the boom touched the 11 kV wire passing overhead. Lucky was immediately electrocuted as electricity passed through the machine. Happy rushed to his rescue and he was also electrocuted,” he said. 
 
 Ashwini said initially he felt there was some technical problem in the local cable panel. “I rushed inside the cable house to disconnect electricity supply. I touched the cable and was thrown away,” he said.
 
 Manveer, a security guard, said he called the electricity department and got the supply disconnected. “We informed the contractor and other officials. They rushed the victims to a private hospital in Ghaziabad where they were declared brought dead,” he said. The contractor and other officials fled from the spot after the deaths were confirmed.
 
 Soon, local people gathered outside the electricity office and launched a protest. The electricity officials fled after closing the office. 
 
 On the other hand, the Noida power department denied any official negligence in the death of two workers. Mukul Singhal, superintending engineer, PVVNL, said the deaths of the drivers were due to negligence on part of the contractors who hired them. 
 
 “Our initial inquiry has revealed that the drivers were working on a crane which has multi-fold arch arms and had put the boom of the arm very high, over and above the 11 kV high tension line which is very far off on the side of the Dadri-Kot road. Since there was electricity on the line they got electrocuted. It is unfortunate that the men died while being taken to hospital,” Singhal told TOI. Singhal added that the power department has filed a complaint at Dadri police station about the mishap and sought an independent investigation by the directorate of electrcial safety department.
 
 Sanjay Tyagi, SHO, Dadri police station, said that a team reached the spot and found that the victims were taken to hospital. “We did not find any official on the spot. We found that the workers were hired by a contractor, who was not available at the spot. We have not received any written complaint in this regard,” he said.
 
