CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered a vigilance bureau (VB) inquiry against 2007-batch IPS officer Inderbir Singh following a state police report that he allegedly took Rs 19.5 lakh bribe by two poor farmers after threatening to frame them in a murder case. 

 Inderbir was working as assistant inspector general (AIG) in administration wing, that looks after transfers and postings of officers. He was shunted out to policy and rules wing but is likely to face suspension, till the completion of VB inquiry, when Amarinder returns after his Mumbai tour.
 
 Investigation report by   has said that a DSP-rank officer and SHO collected bribe for the IPS officer by illegally confining the two 30-year-old farmers Dhanwant Singh and Harjinder Singh Babbu inside a chowki office in Sangrur. Sunam city DSP Jashandeep Singh and Sikander Singh, SHO, Longowal Police station, have been on the run since Tuesday morning. The report reveals that the farmers were picked for random interrogation while probing a murder of a 25-year-old financier by five gangsters on February 16 this year.
 
 The report also found out that Inderbir had summoned all those friends of the gangster who had liked the   video posts of the murder. The police are trying to ascertain if he or other cops demanded bribe from them.
 
 The report by Sangrur   Mandeep Sidhu has sought a case against Inderbir on charges of prevention of corruption and criminal conspiracy. The case has sent shock waves among Punjab Police IPS circles.
 
 Two assistant sub-inspector rank officers - Sangrur City police post in-charge Baljinder Singh and Badrukhan police post in-charge Gurmail Singh - were used to allegedly intimidate the farmers.Inderbir was among three officers whose name was suggested by Punjab Police DGP Suresh Arora and home department in the panel list to be next Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP).
 
 His name has been withdrawn by Amarinder.
 
 All five gangsters, including deadly gangster Davinder Singh, alias Babli Randhawa, were arrested. Dhanwant and Babbu are gangster's acquaintances. Neither then ADGP (administration) Dinkar Gupta nor Punjab Police VB chief B K Uppal replied to queries on the probe.
 
