LUDHIANA: In a major setback to BJP, two senior leaders of the party Satpal Gosain and Gurdeep Singh Neetu joined Congress along with their supporters on Friday.
The leaders were unhappy as their demand for a ticket from   was turned down. On Thursday, BJP high command had declared Gurdev Sharma Debi as the party candidate from the constituency.
 
 “Ground-level party workers have been ignored during allotment of tickets. Six names were sent for ticket allotment from Central constituency, but the district BJP president forwarded a single name to the party high command.We have been betrayed,“ said Satpal Gosain.
 
 Gosain has remained state health minister and speaker in assembly. Along with his grandson Amit Gosain, sitting BJP councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu also joined Congress along with his supporters.
 
 Neetu said that he has worked for BJP for last over 30 years and he was upset with the way the candidates were considered for tickets. He also alleged that the local level leadership was misguiding the high command and they would organize a press conference shortly to highlight the 'corrupt practices' of these local leaders.
 
 Meanwhile, a prominent SAD leader,  , on Friday also announced to contest elections as an independent candidate from Ludhiana North constituency . He said he would meet SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and seek his permission to contest. Bagga who holds the charge of vice-chairman of Punjab State Trader's Board wanted to contest elections from North constituency , but the constituency was reserved for BJP candidates as per the deal between the ruling partners. BJP gave the ticket to Parveen Bansal.
 
 On Friday Bagga called a meeting with party workers for taking a decision in this regard. Bagga said, “I conducted meeting with party workers and now I have decided to get permission from deputy CM   and then I will contest elections as an inde pendent candidate.“
 
 When contacted BJP district president   refuted the corruption charges and claimed that the local office-bearers did not send any list to high command and rather they were asked to give inputs about local leaders.He claimed that in 40 years of his political career, nobody had raised questions on his dignity and he was disheartened to hear about those baseless allegations.
 
 Two leaders from the city who had joined SAD and AAP returned to Congress. Janmohan Sharma who had joined SAD in March 2014 came back to Congress. Sharma was former Ludhiana District Congress Committee (Urban) president.   along with MC councillor Rakesh Prashar who had joined AAP also returned to Congress.
 
