NEW DELHI: Lalu Prasad’s exit from the Bihar government just three months after   was unseated in Lucknow marks the eclipse of Yadavs in the Hindi heartland just as they appeared on course for a longer run.

 Lalu’s ascent to power as part of a ‘grand alliance’ in Patna in 2015 came when the SP under   was well past half its tenure in Lucknow.
 
 Their overlapping terms in neighbouring states with 120 Lok Sabha seats between them had revived thoughts of the Yadav chieftains renewing their clout in national politics after the   days.
 
 However, an electoral defeat and a political break-up have put a question mark on the hopes of the ‘secular’ camp. 
 
 SP was swept away from the Lucknow throne in March by a BJP gale with the saffron party decimating local challengers   and   chief   to capture power.
 
 While it marked a big jolt for the   satraps, all was not lost. 
 
 Lalu still appeared going great guns. With the Bihar government having barely completed 17 months in power, the safety of the JD(U)-RJD-Congress numbers promised that the politically significant community would continue to hold one important power perch in the near future, at least till the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 But just when it had been taken for granted, the split in the RJD-JD (U) alliance has brought an unexpected change to the political ground reality.
 
 The eclipse of Yadav power can be a harbinger for a different kind of OBC politics in the Hindi heartland.
 
 BJP has pursued a policy of polarising OBCs against their dominant brethren in Yadavs, a move that paid dividends in UP polls. Many wonder if a similar policy could be put in place in Bihar too.
 
 The earlier JD(U)-BJP government had followed this approach by the name of ‘most backward’ and ‘most Dalit’ where the state focused development efforts on non-Yadav backwards and non-Jatav-Paswan Dalits. It stopped only when   broke up with BJP and joined hands with Lalu.
 
 Now, with political partnerships returning to pre-mahagathbandhan days, it is likely that old policies may return too.
 
