 had been shooting for Imtiaz Ali's next, the tentatively titled, 'The Ring', all day long, through high fever and exhaustion. But at midnight, the charming 51-year old superstar, who will host and perform at the 62nd   Filmfare Awards 2017 on January 14, turned up all smiles, in his customary black suit for the nomination party.

 The gala had kicked off at 10 pm with the feisty emcee Neha Dhupia giving a tongue-in-cheek round-up of the best acts of 2016. "I liked the way Anushka Sharma played the role of a cancer patient in 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' with a bald look, but perfectly dark eyebrows." Neha had everyone in splits.
 
 The highlights of the evening were Jasleen Royal, Sophie Choudry and Amit Mishra, who belted out soulful yesteryear chart-busters. Karan Johar flew in from his two week vacation in New York and checked into the hotel where the bash had been planned so that he could get into his signature shiny shoes in time for the party. "This is the ninth time I'll be hosting the Filmfare Awards, the most archived ceremony in the history of Hindi films. I'm excited to be back on stage with Kapil (Sharma) and Shah Rukh," KJo beamed.
 
  who's been nominated for Best Actress eight times and bagged it twice for 'Chalbaaz' (1990) and 'Lamhe' (1992) ducked in briefly, before hopping on a late-night flight to Florence, where she will be filming Boney Kapoor's upcoming production 'Mom'. Raveena Tandon, looking stunning in a blue gown, had come for Manish Malhotra's first show of the New Year, which won the anxious, celebrity designer a standing ovation for his stunning new collection.  , Swara Bhaskar and Tamannaah Bhatia formed their own girl gang and posed for selfies. They were photo bombed by Urvashi Rautela.
 
 Manoj Bajpayee took a break from clicking pics of the venue and himself to pose with the lovely Tara Sharma Saluja.
 
 Sonakshi Sinha chose  's stellar performance in ' ' for this year's Best Actress, and the film's producer-duo   and Vikas Bahl, had their bromance on point, canoodling as they posed on the red carpet.
 
 While   continues to stick by his 'no-appearances at award ceremonies' rule, the talented Nitesh Tiwari whose 'Dangal' is nominated in the Best Film and Best Director category, was present with filmmaker wife, Ashwini Iyer Tiwari, who looked radiant in a red-and gold kanjeevaram sari.
 
 Kabir Bedi, R Madhavan, Harshvardhan Kapoor, Aparshakti Khurrana, Varun Sharma and Amit Sadh were dapper in their suits, while Jacky Bhagnani twirled for a boomerang video in his Bajirao Mastani esque coat. Prateik Babbar flaunted MJ-style moves while Jackie Shroff made a unique statement in a polka-dotted blue scarf and black glares.
 
 
 
