BAREILLY: Less than three weeks after a Saharanpur village saw violence between  , leading to the death of one, injuries to dozens and the burning down of several houses, local   of the BJP has recommended the village for development work under the Prime Minister’s   Yojana (SAGY).
 
  Sharma himself has been accused of leading a mob to attack and vandalise the residence of the Saharanpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) in an earlier riot between Muslims and Dalits in   He has refuted the charges.
  
  On May 5, the village of Shabbirpur saw clashes between Dalits and Thakurs over a Maharana Pratap Jayanti procession. The violence and arson led to protests and further violence between Dalit groups and the administration.
  
  SAGY aims to develop 790 villages in all, one each selected by 245 Rajya Sabha MPs and 545 Lok Sabha MPs, as model villages. Launching the scheme in October 2014,   Narendra Modi had expressed hope that it would “open the door for good politics”.
  
  Shabbirpur, a village of a little more than 4,500 people, has 50% Dalits and 30% Thakurs, with the rest from other communities.
  
  Saharanpur has been witnessing several rounds of violence between communities within less than a month, with three deaths and over a dozen injuries, besides extensive arson and vandalism. On April 20, BJP workers and supporters allegedly took out an unauthorized Ambedkar Jayanti procession through Sadak Dudhli village, leading to violence between Dalits and Muslims. After the then SSP Love Kumar's home was attacked, MP Sharma was booked for allegedly leading the mob.
  
  According to officials, Sharma held a meeting with district officials on the matter on Tuesday, following which he sent the proposal to the Centre through the district magistrate. Earlier, the MP had adopted Khushhali village of Behat tehsil in 2015 under the same scheme.
  
  Despite repeated attempts at contacting him for an explanation about why the village was selected, the MP was not available for comment.
  
  “The recommendation was given to include Shabbirpur in SAGY because the MP wanted to reduce the trust deficit between the Dalit and Thakur communities after the recent violence,” said Sudhir Kumar, representative of Sharma.
  
  State opposition parties, however, slammed the move, alleging that the BJP MP wanted to turn the village into a “laboratory for vote-bank politics”. Senior BSP leader Atar Singh Rao alleged that BJP only wanted to garner Dalit votes. The party neither respects Dalits nor does it have a vision for uplift of their lives,” he added.
