PANAJI: Goa’s image as a football-loving state has taken a beating in recent times. Crowd attendances for matches have dwindled, there is just one team now in the   and the state is not even guaranteed of hosting one of the marquee matches during the   later this year. Tournament director 
 provided a status update. Excerpts from an interview…
 
  
 
 Goa is in a much better shape than what it was before. In October, we had the AFC U-16 Championship here and it’s a venue that we have monitored closely. We are meeting chief minister Manohar Parrikar and he has already assured us full support, something that we need. The infrastructure is one aspect but there are lot of operational planning that goes into it; security, transport, accommodation, and for that the government needs to be involved.
  
  
 
 We spoke (during the press conference) about our concern with the crowd. In the  , Goa is playing the semifinal and I hope a lot of people turn up. It’s a concern for us. Seems like only when   plays (in the ISL), the stadium is full but when others like Churchill Brothers play in the I-League, they are not able to attract crowd. It’s important (to progress) on this front. This is the World Cup and goes to 200 countries; it’s not a small event or a tournament. If you want to associate the image of Goa with football, this is the opportunity where you show full stadiums and passion.
  
  
 
 Not yet. But the general practice is whenever you have a country like India which is so diverse and so different to the conditions that teams have in their own countries – geographical and weather for example – teams will come a little bit earlier. Some of them will come to acclimatise much earlier and set up base camps here. Any team which sets up a base camp cannot use tournament facilities; stadiums or training sites. That would be unfair advantage. But we will help them arrange everything.
  
  
 
 We are still working on that. In South Korea, Diego Maradona went for the draw. There will be a group of legends who will come here but we do not have any confirmation as yet.
  
