BHOPAL: It is a heart wrenching tale of a mother, who lost her only son in a road accident on   in February 2016. More than a year has passed, still no one knows the circumstances under which the incident took place. 

 Though her son’s death was a shattering blow, she had decided to donate his eyes. But she could not do so despite taking the body from a private hospital to  . The reason: doctors were sleeping. In between all this, the police rushed through paperwork for post-mortem. What she went through after her son’s death was no less painful.
 
 There are many unanswered questions. When the woman and her husband rushed to the accident spot, they could not find their son’s wallet, helmet or even spectacles. The spot was left unguarded and no cop visited it. The CCTV cameras that could have given leads on accident were on the blink at the time of incident. Even   were not working on VIP Road on that fateful night.
 
 Basumita Sinha, principal of a reputed school in the city and her husband, a heart patient, could not still recover from the shock. She does not want to complain as she knows nothing will change for her, but she definitely wants to know what happened that night, which changed her and husband’s lives forever.
 
 “I want to know the truth,” said the distraught mother with tears in eyes. Her husband does not interact much with anyone. The   does not want to share their plight with others, but the two certainly want to know the circumstances that led to the accident. “Police, doctors and other government agencies should not be so casual and indifferent. It can happen to anyone,” she said. 
 
 It was on February 9 night when Sinha and her husband got the news that their son. Deep, 22, was taken to a hospital after the accident. They rushed to hospital, but it was too late by then.
 
 Deep was an enterprising youth, who took to vehicle modification a few months before his death. The accident took place when  , was going to Bairagarh on a bike with one of his friends. His friend lost consciousness after the accident. Though recovered, he does not remember anything now. Sinha and her husband live opposite  . The spot on VIP Road, where the accident took place, is also not far from their house.
 
 She said police told me my son’s bike rammed a stationary heavy vehicle in the night as a result of which he died. My son was young and healthy. His body parts would have helped many. We wanted to donate his organs, but were told at Hamidia Hospital, doctors could not be woken up midnight.
 
 “My son’s wallet with his debit card was missing. Two days after his death, there was a message on his mobile phone. His mobile was the only thing we could get after the accident. A wrong ATM pin was entered to withdraw money from his account. I rushed to police, they asked me to come with an application. I went to the bank where officials, after repeated request, said an attempt was made to withdraw the money from an ATM at Bairagarh, but refused to give the CCTV footage.
 
