LAXMESHWAR(GADAG):  , organized by noted scientist prof   at School Chandan in   has received an overwhelming response from the students who had arrived here from across the state on Friday.

 Bharat Ratna awardee Rao enthralled the students by interacting with them. Replying to a question by Vidyashri, a class 8 student, he slipped into nostalgic memory of meeting Noble laureate  . “I met Raman in Bengaluru when I was 11 years old. I had an opportunity to walk with him for half an hour. He told many things about Physics, but I failed to grasp a single word of him as I was so happy to spend time with him. However, I got the crazy idea of becoming a scientist after that meeting. Raman became a source of inspiration for me” he narrated. After interacting with Rao, Vidyashri, said she was also motivated to become a scientist. 
 
 When Ganesh, a class 10 student, wished to know about Rao’s college days, the entire gathering was stunned to know that he (Rao) worked from 8am to 1am (17 hours) in laboratories during his PhD days. `That is why I could publish 5 papers out of my Ph D work. Still I have the habit of getting up by 4.30am” he said. 
 
 He suggested the students not to trust everything that is printed in books or somewhere. “One should get himself trained and develop the habit of cross verifying the information,” he added. 
 
 Vaishnavi, a class 10 student, drew Rao’s attention towards people’s attitude of pointing out faults of researchers to which Rao said: “You should just neglect such criticism. It’s a human tendency to find faults with everything no matter what the person being criticized has achieved. So you should worry about big things, but not about such criticism.”
 
 Responding to a question on India’s lacking in science, he, said that Indians are basically wise and smart but due to lack of support they are not able to utilize their intellect. “If rural students are given good infrastructure, they will definitely excel in all fields. But the real problem is the poor spending on education by the governments. US and China spend more on science while India spends just 1% of its budget on education’ he mentioned.
 
 Box:
 
 Choose a nice life partner to be successful
 
 “Want to achieve something in your field of interest? Just choose a nice girl as your life partner, as I did after my PhD. Myself and my wife Indumati have never fought with each other. If one quarrels with his or her spouse, then he or she loses the mood of working and that causes loss to the company or institute he or she working with.”
 
 
