Kiran Patil has been dreaming of a home-sweet-home for long, but budget was a challenge. On Wednesday, finance minister   had something for this employee of an automobile showroom in   to cheer about.

 “The government’s announcement of affordable housing up to 60 sq m made me happy. My budget is Rs 15 lakh and I think my dream home will soon be a reality. Moreover, a 3% subsidy on interest on home loan up to Rs 12 lakh and 4% on loan up to Rs 9 lakh is a big relief for the common man,” he said.
 
 It’s not only the buyers but the entire builder fraternity in Nashik which is all smiles with affordable housing getting the   status in Jaitley’s Budget. 
 
 This, the builders said, will not only boost the   sector but also give a thrust to the country’s economy in general and ensure a rise in demand for affordable housing up to 60 sq m. The “infrastructure” tag will also help the builders, who have been reeling under a prolonged slowdown, get loans from banks at moderate interest rates. 
 
 Around five years ago, close to 7,000 flats worth Rs 1,800 crore were constructed and sold in Nashik. In 2012, close to 10,000 flats worth Rs 3,000 crore were ready and lying unsold. However, there are still 2,000 ready flats lying idle in the city. Most of these are the big budget flats worth above Rs 35 lakh each. Besides, around 7,000 flats are under construction in the city.
 
 “The infrastructure status to affordable housing will reduce costs for developers and attract investors. This will improve housing supply,” said Ramesh Malani, president of the Builders’ Association of India’s Nashik chapter.
 
 Nilesh Chavan, past chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects), Nashik, said “Affordable housing coming under infrastructure along with changing definition is good to provide momentum for small house purchasers and builders..”
 
 Sunil Bhaybhang, vice-president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India, Maharashtra, said, “The builders will also be able to get loan from banks at moderate interest rates because of the infrastructure status to affordable housing.” 
 
 Hemant Dugad, president of the Institute of Indian Interior Designers (IIID), Nashik centre, said the infrastructure status will help the corporate sector diversify into affordable housing. 
 
 
