KOLKATA: It was almost a rerun of the   horror at Entally on Friday night. 

 A tenant of a building - eyed by a local promoter - was allegedly "shot at" and beaten up with revolver butt and bricks. 
 
 Though the bullet had reportedly missed its mark - a charge that police repeatedly denied - the cops have already arrested two persons in connection with this. 
 
 Locals, however, claim that clashes at Entally's   over illegal construction have become regular and this was the 16th such clash in the Entally-Beniapukur area in the last two years. A case under Arms Act and grievous hurt has been initiated by the Entally police.
 
 According to police, on Friday evening, Md Shahid alias Chottu, a trader, was on his way back home when a local promoter Md Sabbir accosted him and hit him. 
 
  Sabbir's alleged aide, Md Javed, took out a pistol and shot at Shahid when he tried to run. Since the victim fell down, the bullet missed the mark. The promoter's men then allegedly beat him up. 
 
 When a passer-by,  , tried to save him, he too was attacked. He received several injuries. Cops have arrested the main accused, Javed, and his associate Shakil.
 
 "Entally, in a nutshell, is perhaps a miniature replica of the state. The area was once a thriving industrial belt adjoining the Sealdah railway yard. Now, it has nothing but broken down, abandoned and partially operating warehouses. What also significantly remain are several abandoned workers' flats and machines, whose scrap value is estimated to be in lakhs, which is a real estate developer's dream," said Md Hashmi, a trader from the Entally area.
 
  Another trader - who stays in a railway quarters adjoining Motijheel - mentioned that most of the workers and their families have shifted, either by leaving their flats on rent or selling off their property. Big businesses like Phillips is no more, it is now a   employees' quarters. Similarly, the ownership of the businesses is also shifting hands very fast. The worker, at the bottom of the ladder, is left jobless and rather homeless after spending decades here. 
 
