HALVAD: The lifeline of Gujarat, as the Sardar Sarovar Project is often called, is being drained by unauthorized diversion of water on a mammoth scale. Estimates suggest that a third of the water in some canals is illegally drawn by farmers.

 Along the 117-km Morbi branch canal, hundreds of diesel pumps furiously lift water into adjoining farms. While most farmers along the canal put pipes into the canal bed from the top, others have drilled holes, piercing through the canal lining and laid underground pipelines to their fields.
 
 Such pilferage is usually seen where one side of the canal is not in the command area. The government has not acted to stop this because it has not started charging for water provided to farmers. This illegal drawing of water has deprived the intended recipients of this precious resource.
 
 Two days ago, BJP MLA from Morbi, Kanti Amrutiya, made a representation to deputy chief minister Nitin Patel asking him to put a stop to this so that adequate Narmada water reaches Morbi. Amrutiya said, “Morbi is the last town on the canal network and gets hardly any water because of the pilferage.” He says raids are carried out regularly, but the pipes reappear overnight.
 
  L A Parmar, administrative engineer of the   canals, says “We estimate that some 35% of the water is illegally drawn.” He says the   (SSNNL) conducts raid but farmers seem to have a good advance warning system in place. Obviously, this pilferage takes place with the connivance with local SSNNL officials.
 
 The sarpanch of   village, Pravin Songra, admits that scores of pumps have been illegally installed on the canal. “Ground water is available at about 600 feet and the the cost of pumping water from the canal is much less,” says Songra. Farmers can take three crops in a year with this illegally drawn water.
 
 J B Kachrola, sarpanch of Ishvarnagar, said pilferage is most rampant in villages where the panchayats, due to internal differences, have not been able to form water committees which are mandatory to draw water legally and for a price. Although SSNNL has not fixed water charges yet, farmers feel they should not form these ‘pani samitis’, lest they be served a huge bill someday, with massive arrears.
  
 There may be political considerations in play to delay fixing of water charges, as the government does not want to upset farmers with water bills ahead of the assembly elections at the end of this year.
 
 S S Rathore, CMD of SSNNL said, “We have deployed security for the dam and other vital installation, but to manning the 46,000km of canals is very difficult.” He said patrol staff do raid on water thieves in some areas of Saurashtra and  . “We do file FIRs and take legal action for stop water theft at many places,” Rathore claimed.
 
 
