 and Konkona Sensharma who have been separated for three years now, have come to an arrangement whereby both parents can spend equal time with their six-year-old son  . A delighted Ranvir is taking up projects now keeping his son’s schedule in mind.

 "It’s about changing gender roles. Since Haroon’s mom is usually busier than I am, we came up with this idea. It’s not so much about spending a few hours bonding with my son as it’s about child rearing," asserts Ranvir, adding that his own brothers were more handson than his father and he would like to change that as a parent. 
 
  
  
 "So, Haroon has two homes now and half the time he’s at my   and the other half with his mom." The 36-year-old actor goes on to admit that fatherhood has changed him more than he had ever imagined and not all of it is bad.
 
  Today, he enjoys the routine of getting his son ready, from making his milk to cleaning his potty and dropping him off to school. He even ensures that Haroon does his homework. "With women stepping out and taking on new roles, the time has come for men to step out of their stereotypes too. I’m more patient and my cooking has improved too. Now, Haroon likes what I cook more than what he gets at Konkona’s. I cook my specialities for him,"
 
  Ranvir smiles, who starts the day with Haroon and him going to the park to play, returning home to coconut water and video games. "We then get on with the rest of the day which includes his bath and homework." He agrees that things aren’t perfect between Konkona and him but they are making an effort to give their son a normal upbringing and occasionally even go out for a reading session or a meal so he gets a little bit of them together. 
 
 "Things are obviously not hunky dory but we have to be mature about our relationship and make sure it’s not hard on our child. As an adult we can deal with it but he’s still in his formative years," Ranvir reasons. He adds that Haroon was priority since he was born and nothing has changed following the separation. 
 
 "We mutually agreed to take turns working so we didn’t have to leave him alone. My father is too old and my brothers don’t live here so we don’t have much family support in Mumbai and I didn’t want him to grow up with the help," he maintains. On the status of his marriage, he adds, "We have been separated since the last three years. The paperwork on the divorce is not done yet. We are not in a rush."
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
