NEW DELHI: It may not have been in the Lazarus league, but it was quite the comeback.  , back in India’s ODI squad after more than three years, having endured slumps in form and unwarranted criticism for his inability to reignite the fire of old, scoring his first century in the format for almost six years. From the depths of 25/3, with the talismanic   dismissed, and Chris Woakes in the middle of a dream spell. During a partnership of 256 alongside fellow Casanova of the ODI game,  , with whom he has added over 3000 runs in the format. 

 Who doesn’t love a comeback story? 
 
 The journey from decline back to stardom has proven, time and time again, to be a humbling experience capable of humanizing the most aloof of sportspersons. What it does for Yuvraj remains to be seen, but for 127 deliveries on Thursday at Cuttack’s Barabati Stadium, the 35-year-old rolled back the years in delighting with a career-best 150, his 14th ODI century and first since the 2011 World Cup. 
 
 Yes, you read that right. The 2011 World Cup. March 20, 2011 against West Indies in Chennai. Five years, nine months and 30 days. In his 295th game and second since being recalled to the team for the ongoing series with England, over three years since his previous ODI. Between that innings and the start of Thursday’s game, Yuvraj scored 371 runs in 20 innings at an average of 21.82 with three fifties and a best of 61 versus England in January 2013. He was dropped for the tour of New Zealand in January 2014 after a lean run in which his timing against fast bowling had been a notable feature of his struggles. 
 
 Even his most devoted fans would have wondered if it was possible for the man to bat like he did against England. 
 
 Here was a cricketer who had battled the odds to stage returns to India’s Twenty20 squads twice, but both comebacks ended in pain. The first, emotional, after a sluggish innings during the final of the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 in Dhaka. The second, physical, after an ankle injury cut short his run during the 2016 edition of the same tournament. For Yuvraj, like so many before him, the time out of the Indian set-up must have been a humbling experience. To return in this manner was remarkable. 
 
 In his second innings on comeback - he made 15 from 12 balls on Sunday in Pune - Yuvraj led the way in reviving India’s innings from the loss of three wickets inside the first five overs of the second ODI. He walked to crease in the fifth over after Woakes bowled Shikhar Dhawan as his third wicket, and set about with a fluid recovery act. He hit his ninth ball faced for four, a trademark whip off the hips that flew over square leg, and three deliveries later pulled out the short-arm pull for another boundary. That Jake Ball over ended with a third four, as Yuvraj flicked with elegance and placement. 
 
 This brand of boundary-hitting - easy on the eye and powerful - had been the hallmark of Yuvraj’s batting in years past, when he was a vital cog in the middle order. It all came back Thursday, as the left-hander tucked into England’s bowling and dominated that massive partnership with Dhoni. Of his first 27 runs, 24 came in six boundaries. He got to his first fifty in 1149 days (he made 55 versus West Indies on November 27, 2013) in 56 deliveries, and then cracked his first six, an effortless drive over long-off off Ben Stokes. 
 
 The century came off his 98th delivery faced and was met with raucous applaud from the Cuttack crowd. He wasn’t done, and moved past his previous best of 139 and on to 150. The pull shots, in particular, stood out. It had been a long time since Yuvraj struck them with that ferocity. 
 
 This was the Yuvraj of 2011, the crowd-puller, not the imposter who had batted in an India jersey during his last ODI series, in South Africa in December 2013. And this was a splendid century, coated in confidence and dripping with the residue of a batsman determined to make this final opportunity count. It was also a rapid one at 98 balls, coming as it did with India 25/3 in the fifth over. To steer the side from there, dominate a double-hundred stand and set India on course for 350 and more was the stuff of legend. As the cherry on Yuvraj’s comeback sundae, India won by 15 runs to take an unassailable 2-0 lead. 
 
 When you think of Yuvraj, what comes to mind? Square-drives off McGrath, Lee and Gillespie in Nairobi? Front-foot pulls and straight drives at venues as contrasting as Lord's, Premadasa, Centurion, Karachi and Rajkot? A leaping catch in the arc between point and gully? Wide-eyed celebrations with Harbhajan Singh after taking a wicket? That over off Stuart Broad? The winning runs against Australia in the 2011 World Cup quarter-final? Slogged sixes off Saeed Ajmal at the Kotla?
 
 Take your pick, and then add to them the image of the man batting against England in Cuttack. The ball-crunching, intimidating Yuvraj has returned.
 
 
