Pulikkayam in Kodenchery panchayat of Kozhikode is hardly the kind of place that attracts people from different parts of India, leave alone other countries. But then, that is precisely what is happening, thanks to an annual whitewater   Championship hosted by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC). There are around 80 participants in all, including experts from countries such as USA, New Zealand, Sweden, France, Italy, Germany, Scotland and Nepal. There are contestants also from Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Karnataka besides the home state. The atmosphere is boisterous, as local people cheer the contestants as they row the boat with power and rhythm.

 Says Beneettow Chacko, a coordinator of the fifth edition of the championship: “While the first day saw kayaking in Kuttiady puzha, as freestyle competition can be held only there, Chalipuzha and Iruvanjipuzha are the other venues. Iruvanjipuzha witnesses the most adventurous racing.”
 
 Middle-aged Malayali Shyam Sankar , a computer engineer from Bengaluru, says he has never missed this contest since the second edition. This time he is not participating because of an injury but his 17-year-old son is doing so. “My son and I started learning the techniques together, and today, he took part in the professional category, the other categories being beginners and intermediate.” Though the youngster did not win a prize, he is sure to gain immensely from the experience.
 
 The rapids are categorised in terms of five grades at the event, elaborates Shyam, and he says the experience of doing it in Kerala is unique. He says, “While in Himalayas, the water is really cold, here it is warm.
 
 Each lake is located within 10 kilometres approximately of each other and the rapids range from one to five. This is something rare, when compared to other places. Paddling in different rapids within the same area makes it an unusual experience.”
 
 Nisthul Jose got interested in the event when his dad pointed a newspaper item, saying, Eda ninak pattiya sambhavam’ (Something suited for your taste). With every edition, he went on improving with regard to paddling and gaining control over the boat. He also had a training stint under Scottish trainer Callum Strong. “During the first year, I just knew how to row the boat, and I took part in the beginners’ category and somehow, I managed to grab the fourth place. Last year, I competed in the intermediate category, and as we had no individual boats to practise, we got a chance to do a trail version using the boats from our fellow competitors. I got the first prize.”
 
 He says from that day, the level just went up, as this time he tried his hand at professional category, along with five other Olympians. Nisthul explains, “Though, I did not get any prizes this year, that I could compete along with such experienced sportsmen itself was great and I got a chance to know where I stand, in terms of skills and talent.”
 
 Lack of sponsors, training and individual boats are what hold local participants back, he says. Otherwise, people from Kerala are quick to learn and can even make it to Olympics, says Nisthul who is licensed to train people in whitewater kayaking.
 Nisthul concludes by saying that kayaking is a meaningful activity that spreads a positive attitude. “When you face adversities in life, you feel it is almost impossible to get past them until you actually do so. However, once you triumph in transcending barriers, you get a sense of achievement. This is exactly what happens in kayaking too.” 
 
