Among the unsung popular tiatrists of yesteryears is the late A  , better known by his stage name ‘Saib Rocha’ for his command over his fellow artistes and successfully leading his troupe ‘Union Jack Dramatic Company’ during tiatr’s turbulent period of 1910-1941.
 
  Rocha was born Domingos Jose Rocha in Vagalim-Oxel in Bardez on August 23, 1898. After completing his education, Rocha went to Basrah in the Middle East for work, but returned to Bombay (now Mumbai) when the First World War broke out in 1916.
  
  Tiatrs by renowned directors such as late L C D’Braganza, late Douglas Fernandes, late Sebastiao Gabriel D’Souza, late Lucasinho Ribeiro and late Rogaciano D’Souza greatly impressed Rocha, resulting in him penning his debut tiatr, ‘Zenovera de Brabao’ in 1916.
  
  Rocha wrote and directed 62 tiatrs, producing two annually. He created a record by scripting 31 tiatrs during the period 1916-1941. As a drama student, Rocha was quite influenced by Shakespeare’s plays like ‘Romeo and Juliet’ that he translated into Konkani. His other popular tiatrs are Dubavi Ghorcarn, Noketr Italia Xarachem, Gupit Cazar, Mog ani Krim, Calsad Nouro, Ghor Zanvoim, Son of Jerusalem, Aunkarancho Sounsar among others. Rocha has staged his shows in Karachi in Pakistan, Calcutta (now Kolkata), Poona, and throughout Goa. Goa’s then Portuguese dailies highlighted his extensive tours.
  
  Rocha mostly directed his own plays, acting in a few plays by his contemporaries such as Imperador Carlos Magno, Carcus Sailor Boys, White Rose and Bara Par Franscache. The last was presented at the Princess Theatre, Bhangwadi, Bombay on December 3, 1929.
  
  Since Rocha exercised his authority and ensured that discipline was observed by all the 32 troupe members of his ‘Union Jack Dramatic Company’ that was the most popular and only surviving tiatr club of the then 62 tiatr clubs in Bombay, he received the sobriquet of Saib as he respected all his colleagues earning their respect in return.
  
  Some of these tiatr clubs were the Goan United Dramatic Association, Goan Amateurs Dramatic Club, Goan Capital Theatrical Company, Jolly Boys Amateurs Company, The Mazagaon Opera Company, The Stars of Bombay, Bombay Portuguese Association, Star Affonseca Dramatic Company, Dom Manuel Braganza Dramatic Company, The Leading Amateurs Dramatic Club of Margao, Grand Original Artistes and The Portuguese Heroes Company, but all these clubs were engulfed by petty politics, jealousy and unhealthy criticism amongst members, leading to these clubs splitting and then slowly dwindling. Moreover, vulgarity was another factor that was the bane of tiatrs during that era. Only Rocha was able to preserve the lofty standards.
  
  The founder members of his troupe comprised of Emidio Sailor, C Carneiro, Jose Pereira Mithaiwala, Simon Alphonso, S Dias, Luis Borges, J Afonso, Aphonso Paho, Chikin, Luis Alphonso, Altos, Duarte Hara, Santan Fernandes, Eddie D’Costa, Thomas Fernandes, Babu Hilario, Midas D’Costa, Victor, Elzara, C D’Souza, Peter Peres Bomboicar, A Peres Bomboicar, Patrick Fireman and Johnie Bartle. Following a quarrel between Sailor and Borges, many members quit the group, but Rocha recruited new faces such as Anthony Vaz, J R Fithna, Anthony Tulu, M C Correia, J P Souzalin, Souza Ferrao,  , C Brazil, Manny Luis and B Vaz.
  
  Besides, introducing his wife, Ermelinda, to the Konkani stage, Rocha also introduced another actress, Georgina Souza, in his tiatr ‘Doth’ staged at the Princess Theatre, Bhangwadi, Bombay on April 14, 1931.
  
  Rocha was also instrumental in discovering many new young aspiring artistes through the singing competitions organised by him as well as the committee of musicians that he constituted to spot talented singers that he later recruited in his dramas.
  
  Despite declining tiatr audiences, Rocha struggled undeterred to maintain the standard of tiatr, and was quite popular for his stage settings. He later gave some of his tiatrs on contract to then upcoming directors – late  , late Alfred Rose and late   as he was quite enthusiastic about tiatrs despite his advancing years. He expired in Goa at the age of 74 on April 28, 1972.
