Rashmi Sharma, whose repertoire includes many successful long-running television shows, is all geared up to present a new romantic saga on Sony   Television. Titled ' ', the love story will air every Monday-Friday at 8.30 pm. The producer talks about how it is the most visphotak love story. Excerpts...

 
 
 As a woman myself, I do tend to perceive stories from a woman’s point of view. Also, television caters largely to female audience and since a household cannot function without a woman, we make a lot of stories around women. However, 'Jaat Ki Jugni' is an intense love story with an element of surprise. As the title shows, both the hero and the heroine have equal weightage. It’s the love story of a Jaat from Haryana, a place where the language has a different flavour. This story has the scent of the soil. We have a rustic hero, the kind you see in films. Both   and Bittu are complete opposites. We have tried to include different elements to make this an entertaining show. There’s also a strong family angle in it. 
 
 In this story, something explosive will happen every time the couple meets. The universe tries to separate them, but is unable to do so. Unlike Romeo-Juliet, Sohni-Mahiwal and Heer-Ranjha, who were all made for each other, these two aren’t. But they fight against all odds to be together.
 
 Pawanji (husband, Pawan Kumar) and I realised that the above-mentioned classics are all incomplete love stories. However, Bittu doesn’t like such romances, be it his own, or those of others. We have tried to elevate Bittu and Munni to the level of these classic lovers and we hope that people give their example some day. Their journey will be full of ups and downs, and the viewer too may lose hope thinking that their hurdles are too big to cross.
 
 It has not been attempted on TV before. We have incorporated it in this show because the story demands it. We have used it in a way that fits Bittu’s character. Pawanji has designed the fight sequences and he has kept them a little over the top. 
 
 
 After seeing 'Jaat...', those who are not in love will wish for a love like Bittu and Munni’s. Those who are in love will want to ‘rise’ in it and those who have lost their love will realise the value of it. We have worked hard to retain the authenticity of the look, feel, costumes and locations, blending it with the current flavour. The authenticity of the show will make it stand out among other daily soaps.
 
 
