BHUBANESWAR: Mangal Giri, 12, is one of those, who   in January 21   at Kuneru station in Andhra Pradesh near   border that killed 41 passengers. But his trauma is far from over. Suffering from physical deformity, the tragedy separated the deaf-mute minor from his family members, who were travelling in the ill-fated express. 

 Childline, a government-approved voluntary organisation, rescued him on Monday from Puri railway station. However, it is still a mystery as to how he landed in Puri. 
 
 The child welfare committee ( ) in Puri on Wednesday asked the railway authorities and government railway police to take immediate steps to reunite Giri with his family.
 
 Asked about the link between Giri and Hirakhand tragedy, the CWC said Giri revealed about this through symbolic gestures. In CWC order, copy of which is with TOI, it was mentioned that a skilled interpreter got the information from Giri about his link with the  . "Since he was unable to speak and listen, we showed him some newspapers of different languages to know whether he can understand any of the languages. 
 
 He did not respond. Suddenly, he symbolically reacted to some photographs relating to Hirakhand accident. 
 
 He pointed his fingers towards the photos and himself, making us believe he was a victim of the tragedy," CWC chairperson Sidhartha Roy told TOI. Then we asked the interpreter to extract information from the boy. 
 
 The child could only write his name in English. He could not write anything about his family nor did he mention his address. "We suspect after being separated from his family, he boarded a train and reached Puri. Childline volunteers rescued him while he was crying at the Puri station," Roy said. The CWC said Giri appears to be in deep shock following the mishap.
 
 At present, Giri is being counselled by experts at a state-run shelter in Puri.
 
  "We have also kept a close watch on his health. The government railway police and Puri railway station authorities have been asked to contact their counterparts in Kuneru station to establish the child's identity," Roy said.
 
