ZIRAKPUR: Despite Saturday-morning rain, 2,000 people, including local residents and Nirankari Foundation volunteers, gathered in the forest park of Peer Muchhalla to plant more than 20,000 saplings of citrus and medicinal trees under HERO TOI  .

 The raging Ghaggar river had washed away the mud track to the venue but the volunteers made a human chain and a temporary path within an hour to start the event. It’s a campaign to restore the green cover that the residential areas have lost to urbanisation. Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman KS Pannu, who was chief guest, said: “Against a 33% minimum required green area, Punjab has only 6%. Events such as this will help change the situation. I call upon the general public to make its neighbourhoods greener.”
 
 The participants were excited about the campaign. Environment lover   (37) said: “It is an appreciable initiative by Hero and TOI. My entire family has pledged to plant more trees.” Saplings of black currant, mango, guava, lemon, neem, kachnar, gulmohar, amaltas, and kaner were planted. Derabassi district forest officer (DFO) Gur Amanpreet Singh Bains said   (Greater Mohali Area Development Authority) was short of money to plant trees, so a concrete jungle had come up instead. “People need to grow suitable plants at suitable sites to restore the balance, for which they can contact the forest department for help.”
 
 Bains suggested that people must be asked to plant at least five saplings before they get their driving license, birth or death certificate, Aadhaar card, passport, and other mandatory documents from the government. Conservator of forests Churchil Kumar said: “Encourage neighbours and youth to preserve the environment for the future generations. The involvement of society is vital to the green campaign.”
 
 Sant Nirankari Charitable Foundation Chandigarh zonal in-charge KK Kashyap liked the way the volunteer had kept up their enthusiasm despite heavy rain. “Trees such as kachnar, gulmohar and amaltas have not only beautiful flowers but also medicinal value,” Derabassi forest range officer   said. Officials from the pollution control board, forest department, and Panchkula’s   were also present.
 
