KOLKATA: Capitalizing on the truckers' strike, which entered the sixth day on Thursday, retailers have raised vegetables prices by 10-20%. Though they claimed the increase was owing to the widening gap between demand and supply, market sources pointed out the disparity was not so remarkable.

 In fact, wholesale prices of commo dities have remained under check yet.One of the reasons for the dissimilitude between the wholesale and retail prices was that the government kept a tab on the rates at wholesale markets but not that at retail places, said a member of  's market task force,  , from  . “Of course, the supply of commodities is dipping sharply, but not at the rate retailers are trying to project it,“ he added.
 
 Goods booked till March 31 are still reaching the markets. Though trucks have not been entering the city, smaller vehicles have been off-loading the consignments from the stranded lorries and ferrying them to the markets so that the perishable items don't rot. But once these consignments got over, supply would be hit and the prices would go up, said a source, adding the increase could happen after Friday. A survey of the markets in the city on Thursday showed that the retail rates of most agricultural products were costlier by Rs 10-15 per kg than their wholesale prices. “If the strike continues beyond Sunday, the impact will be serious on both the wholesale and retail markets as the current supply and stock may not sustain the demand beyond Monday,“ Dey said.
 
 Subhas Bose, general secretary of West Bengal Truck Operators' association, pointed out that only 84,000 trucks were on the roads, supplying essential commodities to markets, while 3 lakh vehicles had stopped plying. “Union transport minister   will meet us on Saturday. We have resorted to strike not to show our strength but out of desperation. At a time when the government has waived agriculturists of farm loans worth a few thousand crores, how can they tax truckers, who maintain the vital supply chain across the country?“   said.
 
 Apart from the record hike in third party insurance premium, the government has raised the penalty manifold. Earlier, the fine for not keeping insurance papers onboard was Rs 1,400, but now, the figure has been increased to Rs 25,000. “If India is compared to a body, we are like blood, carrying material to furthest corner for the body's sustenance. At the same time, we are a perpetual source of revenue for the government. But we bleed owing to the government's partisan attitude,“ Bose added.
 
