
As the patriarch, and the eldest of five brothers, Pawan Kalyan is going uber rustic — mouthing punch dialogues in a panchekattu, riding bullock carts... you get the drift! Set in a Rayalseema backdrop, this   promises to kick up a storm. “When he heard the story, Pawan himself suggested that we go with an ethnic look as he’s playing a village guy. When I saw him in the panche on the first day I was excited ’cos this is not something we see in Telugu potboilers; it will be a power packed performance,” says director Dolly. 
 
 
 While every Pawan Kalyan film has action sequences, this one promises to show the Power Star in full throttle, in super slow motion at that. “There’s one sequence in which a panchekattu-clad Power Star beats up goons to pulp. I don’t think Tollwyood action will get better than that!” says Dolly.
 
 
 
  
 How the four kid brothers — Ajay, Siva Balaji, Kamal Kamaraju and Chaitanya Krishna — find a suitable bride for PK forms the crux of the endearing family drama. Expect loads of familial love and brotherly bonding. “You’ll get to see a brand new Pawan Kalyan in Katamarayudu. We’re confident that the film will enthrall all. While it will be treat to fans, family audiences too will enjoy the film,” says producer  .
 
  
 Ever since   broke into a teen maar dance in the Swiss Alps and serenaded Shruti with that endearing ‘Ehh Pillaa’, the fans have been waiting to watch these two scorch the screen together again. And if the song trailers that have gone viral are anything to go by, looks like they will recreate the magic yet again. “The romantic track and the chemistry between Pawan sir and me is essential to the film. It will be very different from what we’ve done before and I’m sure the audience will love it,” says Shruti, adding that this is a very different love story. “When a powerful man who hates women finally falls in love, it becomes very different from just another love story,” she reckons. 
 
 
 
 The first half of the movie is light-hearted and and is a laughter riot, courtesy Ali and company. And the cinematography, screenplay and script are engaging too till the break. The action scenes show Pawan Kalyan's enigma in full force. PKs styling could have been better in some scenes. However, watch this space for more details on the film! 
 
 
 
  
  
 
