MARGAO: South Goa Disaster Management Authority (SGDMA) has identified three locations in the district for construction of multipurpose   to temporarily rehabilitate people residing along the coast, who are displaced during extreme weather incidents.

 A plot of land belonging to Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) in  , another owned by Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) at Quittol in Betul, and a parcel of land at Loliem have been identified by SGDMA.
 
 Additional collector I, South Goa district, Johnson Fernandes, said the proposal was awaiting the state government’s nod. “The plots will also have to undergo environmental and social screening mandated by  ,” he informed. The construction of cyclone shelters is to be taken up under National Cyclone Risk Mitigation (NCRM) project, a World Bank-assisted programme.
 
 The project seeks to minimise vulnerability to cyclones and other natural calamities in hazard-prone states and Union Territories, and make people and infrastructure disaster resilient and in harmony with conservation of coastal ecosystems.
 
 While there should be no issues in transferring the land from the respective agencies to SGDMA in the first two cases, Fernandes said the Loliem land is mired in a dispute between the directorate of education and some private owners.
 
 The multipurpose cyclone shelters will be robust structures designed to house people displaced by natural calamities. “Once constructed, they will obviate the need for schools and other government institutions to be converted into temporary relief camps every time a natural calamity strikes,” a district administrative official said. 
 
 Apart from emergency shelters, the NCRM project also includes installation of an early warning system with multiple channels of communication at the taluka level in the state. 
 
 As per World Bank estimates, 16 lakh people in Kerala, Goa,  , Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Karnataka will benefit from the cyclone shelters to be built as a part of the project.
 
