GURGAON: A day after   D Suresh issued a directive preventing   Palam Vihar from hiking its fees in 2017, the school management called TOI to say they have no received no such order. The school also rubbished news reports that it had agreed to hike fees by just 10%.

 “We haven’t agreed to any of these terms,” said Anshul Pathak, vice-chairman,  . “In fact, Mr   hasn’t passed any orders yet. The document that came to us today is the proceedings of Monday’s meeting. If any such order indeed comes through, we will demand a stay in court.”
 
 On Monday, Gurgaon divisional commissioner D Suresh had convened a meeting at his office. According to Suresh, he had conveyed to school management their   was arbitrary and unjust, and therefore not permissible. Suresh said the school was yet to be recognised under its new name, and thus, could not charge more fees.
 
 The minutes of Monday’s meeting — a copy of which TOI received on May 9 — clearly stated: “It was informed by the District Education Officer (DEO) that   is presently a non-recognised school and has been given temporary permission till it’s given recognition by the education department. It has been allowed to admit students up to Class III. It was also informed that DPSG has taken over a previously recognised school, running under the name  . The DEO also apprised the committee that the school has not deposited Form VI with the department, and has hiked the fee exorbitantly.”
 
 The document unequivocally stated that the Fees and Fund Regulatory Committee (FFRC) viewed the parents’ complaint as justified.
 
 But Pathak told TOI they will contest the matter in court. “There is no question of rolling back the hike. The school has to generate enough surpluses so that it not only survives today, but builds schools for tomorrow.”
 
 When TOI questioned the wisdom behind his comment and asked if the “accumulation of surplus” should be regulated, Pathak suggested he doesn’t want government to intervene on this front. 
 
 Pathak also said if their school was indulging in any malpractice, the natural consequence would be that parents would withdraw their wards and choose an alternative, automatically bringing the school down. “But none of that is happening,” he said. “FFRC has no business in auditing schools.”
 
 When TOI called D Suresh for comment, he reiterated his contention that the fee hike was “illegal”. “They are free to move to court. But unless there is a stay, they can’t flout the directives.” Regarding the school’s comments on the FFRC’s interference, Suresh said if government wants him not to interfere, he won’t. 
 
 
