NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his   couldn't have chosen a more opportune time than today to kick off their 
  . And the PM made full use of it by getting in digs at the entire opposition to say that growth and development have stalled in the state because the BJP has been out of power there for 14 years.

 In one fell swoop, Modi dismissed the ruling 
  (SP), which split yesterday politically and familially, the  , which has been beset with allegations of black money laundering and the Congress which has been having trouble regaining its lost glory in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 "There is one party with minimal presence in UP, that is trying for 15 years to establish their leader but with little success. There is another party trying to save money and there is one more party trying to save their own family," the PM said at what the BJP has dubbed the ' ' or the rally for change. 
 
 The first party he referred to was the Congress, which has seen its political fortunes wane compared to its glory days in Uttar Pradesh in the 1970s and the 1980s. 
 
 The second party he referred to was Mayawati's BSP which has not been able to shake off the taint of corruption allegations. The third party he was referring to was the Samajwadi Party, which split yesterday following months of bickering between father   and his chief minister son Akhilesh. 
 
 The PM also said that even though the BJP has not been in power in Uttar Pradesh, that doesn't bother him and his party.
 
 "We don't look at politics through that lens. Our not being in power for 14 years has meant no growth and development in UP for 14 years and that's what hurts the most," Modi said.
 
 India, he said, can't prosper and grow unless Uttar Pradesh prospers and grows.
 
 "When have you seen the SP and the BSP talking in one voice? It's rare to happen, but on my decision to end corruption they are (suddenly) speaking in one voice," Modi said about both those parties being critical of his move to scrap high-value currency notes as of November 8.
 
 "They say remove Modi I say remove black money, they say remove Modi, I say remove corruption. You decide what you want to remove," he said, again extolling the virtues of a digital and cashless economy.
 
 The PM also predicted a win for the BJP in the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 "All the political pundits who keep track of election results..after this rally they won't have to do any work to figure out who the winner will be. They can just see all you people gathered here and get their answer. The winds of change are visible," the PM said.
 
 
 
