KOCHI: School authorities in the district are in a mood of celebration as Ernakulam has earned the distinction of having the highest number of A+ students in the state in the Class XII state board examination.

 Even as the   is all set to revamp its Comprehensive and Continuous Evaluation (CCE) system from this academic year, parents and students interested in securing admission to professional courses are wondering whether the Plus Two system of the state board needs a re-think.
 
 But education experts say that it is not the school system but the mode of valuation of entrance examinations that should undergo an overhaul. “The concept of effectiveness of school education is being questioned because of private tuitions and the coaching system where students have to answer an impossible number of questions in very little time. Remember, these are multiple choice questions. These don’t really test the in-depth knowledge of the student,” said educationist R V G Menon.
 
 He said that a two-year-old study by the Kerala shastra sahitya parishad (KSSP) had shown that there is difference in the number of working days in a CBSE school and a state school. “This make a huge impact. Parents prefer sending children for private tuitions and those who can afford it will get the benefit. Maybe we are moving towards an ineffective schooling system which is not a good development,” Menon said.
 
 Experts said that the difference in two systems and the environment in the schools and homes also play a role. “A student may have performed well with A Plus in the school-qualifying examination but that doesn’t mean that he/she will clear entrance exams. At school, they are taught a lot of theory and they will be well-versed in that. But in an entrance examination, it is a very different requirement where speed, quick thinking and fast calculations make all the difference,” said K  , regional deputy director-HSE, Ernakulam.
 
 There is not much difference between the two boards if you look at the syllabus as both prescribe NCERT text books. “It’s just that many students in state schools can’t afford to go for any kind of private coaching which prepares them for the entrance examination,” said K C Harikrishnan, Kerala state teachers association (KSTA) general secretary. 
 
 Interestingly, even the academia in the state are concerned as to why the students have not been able to score well in the various national-level entrance examinations. “It is often because of the student’s personal interest that he/she can clear an entrance exam as there are not many people to persuade them in their school environment. As far as maths is concerned, while the subject has been made much simplified, it does not appear to be enough for the students in state syllabus to clear the major national entrance exams. The fundamentals of the subject are strong, but obviously, something extra has to be added,” said A Vijayakumar, professor of mathematics,   and regional coordinator of Maths Olympiad.
 
