NAGPUR : Hundreds of   who appeared for   this summer, despite being ineligible, may not lose an academic year after all. Sources in the board office told TOI that though these students will be declared as ‘failed’ they may get a shot at redemption in supplementary   with a change of subject — from Math to Sociology. 

 TOI had reported on Friday how students who opted for General Math (easier version), in SSC had managed to take up   even though rules did not permit it. So far the goof-up has been noticed in Nagpur, Amravati and Latur divisions. 
 
 The state education board HQ will have to specially authorize the change in the subject and permit them to appear for it in July/August exam. A principal told TOI that the board definitely has that much power to “tweak rules as and when required”. “Nobody will want to see the future of kids destroyed over what at best seems to be a clerical error. It is not a scam but just an oversight,” he said.
 
 Board officials did not deny the possibility of allowing such students to appear for Sociology paper, but added it's “too early to comment”. Meetings with principals, in whose colleges such students were admitted, is still going on wherein explanation is being sought for the goof-up. 
 
 Speaking to TOI earlier,  , chairman of Latur divisional board said, “It's a mischief by colleges because they have to verify documents before giving admission. It's obvious that someone at the college manipulated these things.” 
 
 Another senior education official said, “I have to say that principals are responsible for this mess. For board employees it is extremely difficult to verify each and every document. At the divisional level there are maybe 2 to 3 lakh forms coming in and hence every minute detail cannot be checked. Board relies on colleges to form the first line of defence and do their job properly without which this system will collapse.”
 
 Another official said, “Now that we are also shifting online for most of our processes, such things will be detected by the software hopefully.” 
 
