CHENNAI: The political churning triggered by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's demise is set to bring about a change of leadership in the state BJP.
Party sources said Prime Minister   and party chief   are not too happy about the state unit's inability to capitalize on the political vacuum left behind by Jayalalithaa. “Instead of working on our own strengths, we have been striving to forge winnable alliances all these years.This approach has to change.Only if the BJP is a strong force in the state will other regional parties show interest in aligning with us. We have to follow the approach that the BJP adopted in other states,“ said a senior leader.
 
 BJP national council member L Ganesan, however, said, “So far, there has been no discussion about any leadership change in the BJP's core committee in Tamil Nadu“.
 
 The party leadership is in the process of reaching out to a few regional heavyweights (read caste leaders) to strengthen its base, sources said. While the party has a considerable influence among the nadar community owing to the presence of leaders like Union minister of state for shipping   and BJP state president Thamizhisai Soundararajan, it does not have strong leaders among thevars, goundars, vanniyars and dalits. “Amit Shah is keen on bridging this gap through social engineering,“ said a senior leader.
 
 The state BJP unit is set for yet another round of organizational expansion.Harping on the three years of achievements of the Narendra Modi government, it began carrying out a 15-day campaign starting Friday, highlighting the achievements of the Centre.
 
 A membership campaign will follow, from June 23 to July 31, during which time 66 lakh tree saplings will be planted in as many houses, at the rate of 100 per polling booth.
 
 “From a mere 12.5 lakh members, we moved on to 30 lakh members in our last membership drive carried out after the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. It is close to three times growth. Henceforth, all our activities will have boothlevel committees in the focus. Earlier, we used to focus on village panchayats. This is a paradigm shift, aimed at more decentralized way of functioning,“ said Ganesan, adding that it would yield results in the forthcoming local body polls.
 
 The BJP has so far suffered in   owing to the negative voting pattern, he said. “Negative votes are more than positive votes in Tamil Nadu. The   used to win because people voted against the DMK.Many BJP supporters also ended up voting for the AIADMK in the past, with a view to keeping the DMK at bay . With the demise of Jayalalithaa, that trend will change,“ said Ganesan.
 
