HYDERABAD: Paving the way for declaration of results of the recently-held elections to the executive committee of the   (HCA), the   on Thursday dismissed petitions that challenged the polls. 

 Justice S V Bhatt pronounced the order after hearing arguments for and against the elections. He upheld the order of a civil court in Ranga Reddy district which had directed that the polls be conducted. Accordingly , the election was held on January 17, but following a petition that challenged the process, the high court had earlier stayed the declaration of results. It was this petition the HC dismissed paving the way for the declaration of the results. Justice Bhatt said the civil court order directing the authorities to conduct election to the HCA executive committee was very much in tune with the recommendations of the   and the guidelines of the Supreme Court.
 
 According to sources, the results are likely to be announced on Friday . Of the total 217 votes, 207 were polled with six institutions staying away . The SC had on July 18, 2016, ruled that institutions had no right to vote. Barring the post of secretary for which T Seshnarayan has been elected unanimously, polls were held for president, vice-president, treasurer, joint secretary and the executive committee posts. The call on counting of votes will have to be taken by election officer BVS Murthy and advocate commissioner Rajeev Reddy , but what remains to be seen is whether the HCA results will be out on Friday as the Bar Council elections are scheduled for the same day .
 
 Accusing HCA of mismanaging affairs, ignoring the recommendations of the Justice Lodha Committee and SC guidelines, Bharat Cricket Club and Seshnarayan, filed a petition before the civil court in Ranga Reddy seeking a direction to the state cricket body to conduct elections immediately. The civil court appointed an advocate commissioner and declared that elections to the executive committee of the HCA shall be conducted under his supervision. After the election notification was issued, this order of the civil court was challenged in HC.
 
 The newly-elected body has to now assist the two administrators appointed by the high court to run the affairs of the HCA for the next six months.
 
