Ludhiana: With no other credible lead in the pastor murder case, Ludhiana police have now shifted their focus to the Facebook page that campaigned against his church. Pastor Sultan Masih was shot outside a church in Peeru Banda Mohalla, Saleem Tabri, on July 14.

 The police claimed to have traced the administrator of the page ‘No conversion’ to south India and questioned a Ludhiana resident who posted comments against the pastor. The comments were deleted soon after the killing.
 
 Though cops claim that they are still not clear about the motive, the pastor’s family and chairman of Ludhiana Churches’ Council Kunju Koshy said the FB posts and the May scuffle incident could give vital clues in the case.
 
 “There were some controversies making rounds on social media related to the name of this church, ‘Temple of God’. On the Facebook page, some people were condemning the use of ‘temple’ word for a church. Others were accusing priest Sultan Masih of conversions. This could be a lead in the case,” Koshy added.
 
 They have given the screen-shots of the page to the police. “One of the posts, which has now been deleted, stated, “How did he earn 5000cr + 20000 cr worth of benami property with no job or any sort of real business.”
 
 Masih’s son Elisha said, “About six months ago, my father learnt about this page, which had a few comments against him. But, he ignored it.”
 
 About the scuffle incident, Koshy said, “The church was celebrating its silver jubilee on May 31, when about 20 to 25 miscreants barged in and accused the pastor of conversions.”
 
 Police commissioner R N Dhoke said, “We have traced the administrator of the Facebook page, which is being run from south India. A resident of Salem Tabri, who had posted the church address on the page, was questioned. But, nothing concrete came out. Those who fought with the pastor and accused him of conversion on May 31 have been identified.”
 
 Several high-profile murders of RSS vice-president VP Gagneja, city-based Hindu outfit leader Amit Sharma, Khanna-based Shiv Sena leader Durga Prasad and Dera Sacha Sauda followers Satpal and Ramesh Kumar have rocked the city for the past two years, but none have been solved till date.
 
 
