PUNE: Unmindful of which party wins, the civic election next month will be remembered for the emergence of Deccan Gymkhana area as the new epicentre for political happenings in Pune. 

 During the earlier elections, political shots were being called from Kalmadi House or Baramati hostel located in different areas. Now, all the major parties including the BJP, NCP, Shiv Sena, Congress and MNS have their political offices around Deccan areas. 
 
 The activities including filling of nomination, workers training, party meeting and press conferences of important leaders are taking place around Deccan. All parties have also set their ‘war’ rooms here.
 
 The BJP has shifted its office from   area to Hotel Sanman on J M Road, while the NCP, which has an office on Tilak Road is operating from Central Hotel on JM Road. The NCP used to operate from Baramati hostel near Senapati Bapat Road. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has set up its office on Bhandarkar Road. Shiv Sena has its office near Deccan bus depot, while Congress has its place in Shivajinagar.
 
 “We have decided to shift the office from the core city areas to J M Road for several reasons. There is a huge rush during election time. This office is bigger compared to the old city areas, its parking space is huge and it is very approachable from different areas of the city,” BJP office head Uday Joshi said.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go the polls on February 21 and the results will be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have registered for this election, which will elect 162 corporators.
 
 According to those handling these offices, contesting elections this year has become a more laborious job as the panel size has increased drastically. The candidates will have to reach out to the voters in four wards compared to two wards during last election. In such scenario, if the election office is located in centralised place, dealing with day to day activities could be easy for them.
 
 The Congress is also operating from its headquarters from Shivajinagar, unlike previous elections when the main happenings would take place on  . “Former member of parliament Suresh Kalmadi’s house was a key location for negotiations and discussions. This time, though people are meeting him, his participation is minimal when compared to previous elections,” a Congress leader said.
 
 These offices have set up ‘war’ rooms operated by the young political workers dealing with the social media wing, voters’ helplines, complaint cells and candidates information centres.
 
 “Conducting day-to-day meetings during the election period is necessary. We need big space. If we take different places on rent for such activities we end up spending a lot. So we have decided to set up a temporary office near JM Road,” Ashok Rathi, office in-charge for the NCP’s election office, said.
 
