KOTA: One hundred seven   were rescued from four cities of   within five days of   – a special drive by   of  .

 The one-month long statewide special drive kicked off on May 15 will continue till June 15. The drive aims at rescuing missing children, child labourers and children engaged in begging. The highest numbers of child labourers were reused from Kota city in last five days.
 
 60 children including five girls were rescued from different areas of the Kota city under special drive ‘Milap’, told Dharmraj, in-charge of Anti Human Trafficking of Kota city. One of the five girls was missing and was rescued while begging on the roadsides, he said and added other children were rescued from Udoghnagar, Borekheda and Kunadhi areas where they were engaged catering works, some at Dhabas, wielding at motor mechanic and bangle manufacturing units, the CI said.
 
 Six FIRs have been lodged against the owners and proprietors of the firms where child labors were forced to work, he further said adding the rescue child labors have been sent to various Children Shelter Homes of the city. ‘Some of the rescued children have also been given home placement after negotiations with their parent’, told Bhupendra Singh, coordinator Child Line, an NGO that joined the Anti Human Trafficking Cell in Operation Milap.
 
 Meanwhile, 25 child labors including one girl were rescued Jhalawar city of the region. The rescued 25 children were engaged in bricks making and sweet shops, told Praveen Vyas, Circle In charge, Anti Human Trafficking Cell Jhalawar. Seven of the 25 rescued children were missing and missing reports of children were lodged in various police stations of the district, he further said. Five FIRs were lodged against the proprietors and owners of the shops where they forced to engage in work, CI Vyas said.
 
 In Bundi, 17 child labourers, including two girls were rescued since May 15. The children were rescued from motor parts shops, wielding shops of Bundi city while two girls were rescued from bricks making units in Barundhan and Gumanpura areas of the district, said Kaniz Faitama, circle in-charge, Anti Human Trafficking Cell, Bundi. Four FIRs, two in Bundi city Kotwali and Two in Talera police station were lodged in this regard against the owners of the units where these children forced to work, she said and added the rescued girls were forced to work from early morning at 4 to 5 in the evening and were paid four hundred rupees per day. The rescued children have been sent to children shelter homes, Fatima further added.
 
 In Baran city of the region, five child labors have been rescued in last five days. Five children forced to work from early morning to late evening in motor parts shops were rescued and they have been sent to children shelter home, told Harish Bhati, Circle in Charge, Anti Human Trafficking Cell, Baran. Two FIRs have been lodged in this connection against the proprietors of the shop and further investigation is underway, Bhati said.
 
