NAGPUR: A team of students headed by Akshay Khankhoje from   are creating a device to study the lunar crust which, if all goes well, might just land up on the moon itself. Their device is among the selected 25 projects from across the world, striving to win GLXP Team Indus’s ‘Lab2Moon’ Challenge on March 13 at Bangalore, which is an initiative involving the youth where the wining teams’ project will fly to moon aboard the  . The aircraft is set to launch by end of 2017.

 With the project named as  , the team ‘Tenacious Turtle’ competed with over 3000 teams from across the world to make it to the final 25. Total 16 teams have been selected from India where only two have made it from Maharashtra, one from Mumbai and other from city.
 
 Khankhoje told TOI, “The theme of the contest is to create an experiment that would help build sustainable life on the Moon.” He and his team members, Aditya Bangde, Bhavesh Itankar, Rvai Tanti,Ashwin Singh, Shreyasi Mahurkar nd Mahika Khare have been working on the projetct for the past one year. 
 
 He said, “We are trying to create a palm sized device capable of investigating the lunar subsurface, find if the rock layers below the lunar surface is fit enough to support human endeavours. It will try to check presence of ice below the surface of moon. We will understand if Moon’s surface can bear the weight of future structures being planned by man.”
 
 He said, “ On February 6 they will have to present the preliminary version of the device. The final model will look like a cold-drink can and will weigh below 250 grams”. For the project, the team has been getting a lot of help from college administration and also from students. The final project will be showcased to the jury in Bangalore on March 31, two days after which the winner will be announced.
 
 Team Indus, run by Bangalore-based aerospace start-up   organizing the contest, members from which will be flying to the moon during end of this year, as a part of the   where it is one of the top 5 contenders to win 30 million dollars. 
 
