GURUGRAM: The pathetic state of Old Delhi-Gurugram road has been an old grouse with voters in both wards 1 and 2. They say little has been done in the past two years to properly redo this arterial road that connects the two wards to most parts of the city. While traffic congestion is a regular affair during peak hours, encroachment and illegal parking have made the daily commute on this road a struggle for local residents.

 Residents say the sitting MCG councillors in both the wards — Rishi Raj Rana of   and Ravinder Yadav of   — have not done their bit to ensure the revamp of   and hope that the new civic body representatives will get the busy stretch repaired.
 
 “Digging has been taking place on the road unnecessarily for the past two years. There has been no planning. While officials for the past one year have been saying that digging work is carried out to lay sewer lines, they don’t have any answer to why it has not been completed yet. Our daily commute on this road has become a nightmare. The sitting MCG councillor never took up the issue with the corporation,” said Surya Sharma, a resident of Gurgaon One that falls in ward 1.
 
 While residents of sectors 22 and 23 — parts of both the sectors fall in the two wards — say it is wise to vote for a candidate from a leading political party in the MCG polls, residents of Palam Vihar feel that independent candidates would be a better bet this time.
 
 “There are almost 60 vacant plots that have been converted into dump yards in the past one year. Despite filing multiple complaints, the councillor of this area never even once took up the issue with the MCG on behalf of residents. This time, we want to elect a candidate from the ruling party so that our pleas are heard in the MCG office,” said Brijesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 23.
 
 Some residents of Palam Vihar, on the other hand, said that a few independent candidates from the area should be given a chance as they have been working in the area for a long time. 
 
 Ashok Srivastava, a resident of Palam Vihar, said, “Our area is facing several civic and infrastructural issues. For instance, we have been raising the issue of the power infra upgrade and broken roads with the authorities for many years. However, our requests have fallen on deaf ears. I feel that some independent candidates from our ward are well-versed with the functioning of all the departments, be it discom, MCG or HUDA. Thus they will be able to take up our issues with the corporation in a better way.”
 
 However, Rishi Raj, incumbent councillor of Ward 1, said, “We have invested a lot in road infrastructure in our area. Also, 70% of the area has got proper drainage system.” 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the MCG councillor of ward 2 could not be contacted.
 
 
