NEW DELHI: Beijing has delivered a stern message to   saying it needs to improve and enhance the safety of Chinese citizens living in Pakistan.

 The message to Pakistan to "take 
  " came a day after two Chinese nationals were kidnapped in restive Balochistan, allegedly by militants. And with the presence of the Chinese in Pakistan only set to increase - by the hundreds if not the thousands - thanks to the China Pakistan Economic Corridor ( ), their safety has become a growing concern for Beijing.
 
 As the Chinese state-run news outlet Global Times said in an article, Balochistan "is in the center of" the CPEC project. The article, unambiguously titled "Kidnapping highlights risks along  ", said that the Chinese have often been targeted in Pakistan "despite the friendly relations between" Pakistan and China. 
 
 It's no wonder then that as soon their nationals - Chinese language teachers - were abducted Wednesday, China launched what it calls its 'emergency response mechanism'.
 
 "The Chinese government attaches great importance to the safety of overseas Chinese citizens and condemns the abduction of personnel in any form," said China's foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang yesterday.
 
 In fact, jurisdictional issues aside, the spokesman made it clear that the Chinese government will also participate in efforts to rescue its two citizens.
 
 "The Chinese government will work with the Pakistani side to make the utmost efforts for the early and safe release of the kidnapped personnel," Lu said.
 
 China also made it clear that Pakistan must "take every necessary measure" to rescue the two Chinese nationals.
 
 "We keep close communication with Pakistan, request relevant Pakistani authorities to take every necessary measure to rescue the abducted while ensuring their safety, and take more effective measures to secure the safety of Chinese citizens and organs in Pakistan," said China's foreign ministry spokesman.
 
 Global Times noted that last year, a Chinese engineer was injured in a bomb attack in southern Pakistan and a separatist group, the Sindhudesh Revolutionary Army, claimed responsibility for the attack, saying they were targeting CPEC.
 
 Last December, Pakistan Prime Minister   told China that Pakistan has raised a 15,000-strong armed force specifically to safeguard Chinese nationals working in the country for the $50 billion-odd CPEC project. There are close to 8,000 Chinese nationals working in Pakistan, several reports have said.
 
 
 
