NAGPUR: Vidarbha has topped the state in Right To Education (RTE) admissions in the state with only Nagpur and Wardha districts being able to fill 80% of the seats.

 Vidarbha grabbed eight of the top 10 spots in the district-wise rankings released by the education department, thus stamping its complete sway when it comes to  . Wardha led the state with 88.83% of its seats being filled, followed by Nagpur (85.18%) and Bhandara (79.61%).
 
 The only non-Vidarbha districts in top 10 were   (78.75%) and Pune (70.01%). At the bottom of the list were districts from Marathwada, western Maharashtra and Khandesh with newly created district Palghar being the worst performer at 9.90%.
 
 Anil Pardhi, deputy director of education (Nagpur division), said, “It is a great feeling to see Nagpur division performing well. There’s no doubt that this is a result of team effort and we have been able to provide the kids with their basic right.”
 
 Nagpur district specifically has been at the forefront when it comes to implementation of RTE, right since its inception.
 
 Dipendra Lokhande, district education officer (primary), said, creating awareness among parents was one of the key factors. “We have to empower the parents by providing them the information and making them aware about their rights. We had taken up aggressive campaigns to create that level of awareness so that parents can take advantage of the admission facility,” said Lokhande. The local RTE coordinator Premchand Raut too held multiple meetings with parents and other stakeholders to clear doubts.
 
 The online admission process also helped increase transparency, which is crucial considering the number of applications coming in for the process. At the start of the admission season, Nagpur district had created a record in number of applications received versus the seats available under RTE. Just over 23,000 applications came in for 7,099 seats making it a ratio of 3.22 applications per seat. Pune was second with a ratio of 2.28. 
 
