NEW DELHI: The  , which has been stuck because of a   for nearly 15 years, has got a   with a   Efforts are being made by the Delhi government and East Delhi MP Maheish Girri to revive the project for an alternative access to Faridabad which will take the load off Mathura Road and decongest Ashram Chowk. The Delhi government has recently written to the UP government for resolving the land issue.

 Girri, who represents the area in Parliament, said he will speak to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for helping in expediting the process with necessary approvals to build the 13.4 km bypass. “This is an important project for Delhi, especially for my constituency. If necesary, I’ll meet Yogi Adityanathji to discuss how UP and Delhi governments can work on it together,” said Girri, who is also BJP’s national secretary. 
 
 Delhi government officials have held several meetings with their counterparts in UP on the project and PWD officials say an in-principle approval was given at the last meeting in January this year. Initiated in 2002, the project faced several hurdles due to its initial alignment (which was close to the Okhla bird sanctuary) and later due to the land dispute with the UP government. PWD had started the work on the project in 2003 but it was stopped in 2007 following objections.
 
 Later, a new alignment was worked out. According to that plan, 6.2km-long six-lane elevated carriageways (three lane in each carriageway) will be constructed from the elevated section of Ring Road near the DND flyover till Kalindi Kunj. The remaining 7.2km stretch of road will be constructed at-grade and run parallel to the New Agra canal till Faridabad.
 
 A large section of the proposed bypass will go through areas in Delhi which are at present under the UP government’s jurisdiction. The UP government has to hand over 43 acres of the land to PWD for the construction work. “The elevated corridor will pass through a residential colony of the UP government. We will have to construct piers in the old Agra canal, which is maintained by the UP government’s flood and irrigation department. They had issues about damage to the canal and the colony during construction of the elevated section. But we have agreed to pay for repairs,” said a PWD official. “There is an existing road along the embankment. We will have to just widen it,” said a PWD official.
 
 At the last meeting, UP’s flood and irrigation department had given an in-principle approval after PWD showed its officials a 3D design of the project, said an official.
 
 Officials say that people coming from east Delhi and heading for Faridabad will be able to go to Barapullah and then directly take this bypass for a hassle-free ride. Similarly, Noida residents would be able to take the bypass from Kalindi Kunj. PWD officials say that if this bypass is constructed, people can go up to Palwal since the Haryana government has already constructed the stretch between Faridabad and Palwal.
 
 
