THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the recent incident of a farmer committing suicide at the Chembanoda   allegedly owing to the failure of authorities to collect tax,   has become a favourite tool of consumers across the state to get things done in revenue offices. 

 At least half-a-dozen application-cum-threat messages have been received by the land revenue commissioner’s office, accessed by TOI, threatening suicide if their pleas are not heard. 
 
 A petitioner from Wayanad who is in possession of 4.43 acres in Trikkaipatta village in Vythiri taluk has petitioned the Wayanad district collector that he will commit suicide on August 25, if the authorities do not accept tax for his land he has been holding for the past 50 years. The collector has now forwarded the petition to the   for further action. 
 
 The land in question was sold by erstwhile Malayalam Plantations Ltd, the predecessor company of  , which is being claimed as government land. The general public have bought such land without knowing the legal complications. In Wayanad, there are 1,153 families who are in possession of less than two acres of such land and another 143 families who have bought more than two acres of such land. 
 
 Another petitioner from Venmony near Chengannur has sent a petition to the land revenue commissioner saying that the authorities are not accepting land tax from him for the past 21 years. 
 
 He said that he may be forced to take the extreme step like the farmer in Chembanoda, if this injustice towards him continues. He cited “illegal alteration of resurvey records” as the reason for non-acceptance of land tax. Revenue sources said that resurvey is the main villain in most of the cases, where the new records after the resurvey and the old records mostly do not tally, forcing the revenue authorities to desist from accepting the land tax. 
 
 A middle-aged man from Mayithara near Cherthala petitioned the land revenue commissioner that his 45.5 cents was wrongly entered as poramboke in resurvey records, and because of this, he is unable to remit land tax. He also includes a word of caution- “hope you are aware of the suicide by a farmer due to the lapses on the part of authorities”. 
 
 The revenue authorities said that they were receiving many such complaints.
 
  “If the land is rightfully owned by the petitioner, we will ensure that they do not face any difficulties in remitting their land tax. A circular has also been issued saying that if there are any legal hassles in accepting land tax, it should be given to the aggrieved in writing so that he can approach the next higher authority,” land revenue commissioner A T James said.
 
