AHMEDABAD: In a massive embarrassment for the state police which is responsible for enforcing the recently tightened prohibition laws, assistant sub inspector Amrutji Khatuji of   was publicly thrashed for teasing a woman while drunk. The cheering public shamed the ASI and encouraged the harassed woman, a vegetable vendor in Thakkarnagar, to slap the cop and   him by his uniform on to the road.

  The drunk cop also exposed the police-bootlegger nexus in the city after it emerged that Khatuji had drank at the   run by a woman bootlegger in Nikol. The den was raided, but in vain.
 
 City police were forced into action after the video of the policeman being pulled back and forth and slapped several times by the woman went viral on social media.
 
 Late on Monday evening, the ASI was arrested by Bapunagar police and booked under prohibition laws as he found to be drunk. However, senior police officials said the ASI had also put an indecent proposal to a woman vegetable vendor.
 
 “ASI Amrutji has been suspended with immediate effect and has been booked under the 
  . We are searching for the woman seen thrashing him in the video, to take her complaint of molestation,” said joint commissioner of police Sector 2 D B Vaghela.
 
 According to sources, ASI Amrutji was deployed at   to facilitate vehicle traffic at peak hours. About then, the ASI who was heavily drunk, approached the vegetable vendor and made the indecent proposal.
 
 “The woman got angry and caught the ASI, in his uniform, by his collar and dragged him on to the road. People soon flocked around and cheered as the woman slapped the ASI several times. In the video, people can be heard saying ‘Take off his pants’. The drama continues for about 20 minutes,” said a local.
 
 JCP Vaghela said this act of the policeman has shamed the entire force. “I have recommended a review under the system already in force in the Gujarat public service discipline manual. Under the system, the performance of every government official can be reviewed at the age of 50 and again at 55,” added Vaghela.
 
 Vaghela added that the performance of every policeman who has undergone a departmental inquiry will be reviewed. If there is no visible improvement in their behaviour, they will be relieved of duty after a three-month notice period. In December 2015, an ASI of Maninagar police station was caught on video molesting girls at the Kankaria carnival. “The cop was later arrested and suspended,” added a senior police official.
 
