BHOPAL: Uncertainty looms large over the status of various royal properties in Bhopal, Sehore and Raisen after the recent Rajya Sabha bill, that has left many occupants worried.

 Union government on paper vested control of these ‘enemy’ properties worth crores of rupees in 2015. The order has been challenged in the MP high court and HC granted a stay in the matter.
 
 However, the Rajya Sabha on Friday passed a bill to amend a 49-year-old law to guard against claims of succession or transfer of properties left by people who migrated to Pakistan and China, amid a walkout by the entire opposition.
 
 The new development has many people speculating the response of office of the custodian of   of India (CEPI).
 
 CEPI, an office instituted under the Central government, not only declared Abida Sultaan’s properties as vested but the last Nawab’s personal properties as ‘enemy property’ too. CEPI has in the past cited that Abida Sultaan, as Nawab’s heir apparent.
 
 CEPI sent a notice to the state government in 2015, vesting control of all properties of Abida Sultaan, the daughter of last Nawab of Bhopal Hamiduallah Khan. The issue gets more complicated as CEPI places Nawab’s heir apparent as Abida Sultaan. She migrated to Pakistan in 1950, as a result of which much of the royal properties were named as ‘enemy property’.
 
 The claim has been challenged. Actor Saif Ali Khan, a descendant of late Nawab Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi claimed that the last Nawab’s younger daughter Sajida Sultan was recognised by the Government of India as Begum of Bhopal in 1961 after the death of her father in 1960.
 
 Khan’s lawyer Rajesh Pancholi calls the terms the CEPI notice as a cryptic order. “Sajida Sultan was recognised as sole successor by President of India through a gazette notification. Enemy property excludes all citizens of India and we have pleaded that vesting order be quashed,” said Saif’s advocate Rajesh Pancholi. Like the Pataudi’s many other in Bhopal now await the move from CEPI.
 
 “To date the CEPI has not substantiated on its vesting order,” he added.
 
 CEPI justification of the order would be a move that could impact hundreds of properties across Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore. Registry, mutation and current ownership status of these royal personal properties of the erstwhile ruler Nawab of Bhopal State could open a pandora’s box for the administration.
 
 An amendment in the act could mean the district administration once again trail into records of the last 100 years or more, said a district administration official.
 
 After the vesting order CEPI issued letters to the state government to investigate properties belonging to Abida Sultan. Going by a letter from Bhopal Collector’s office to the revenue secretary last year, there is only one property ‘Nani Ke Haveli’ in the walled city that has been deemed to belong to Abida Sultan.
 
 The Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2016, which amends the Enemy Property Act, 1968. Bhopal Nawab’s personal properties are worth thousands of crores of rupees, including palaces, cottages and farms, are spread across three districts.
 
