Neglect, and the cruelly unavoidable march of time is eroding a lot of Goa’s built heritage. What may be less noticed, or taken cognizance of, is also the erosion of the state’s unique  . The sad case of the once famous Bainguinim spring, which supplied water to the entire city of  , vividly signifies that state of affairs.
 
  Bubbling bountifully from rocks on the northern slopes of what now is popularly called the Kadamba plateau, it kept the former capital of Goa happy and healthy, drinking from its fount, round the year.
  
  As one enters the still verdant Bainguinim valley from Panaji, past the   church or from the Old Goa end, the chill at night or early morning is felt more pleasantly here. Located in the southern part of the valley, barely a kilometre away from the small culvert on the main road, the spring still flows, but most of its vestiges have decayed and eroded. Over the past few centuries, and similar to what it is now, the parish of Sao Pedro comprised two wards of Bainguinim and Panelim. The Catholic population in Panelim has now shrunk. Most of the architectural heritage including a part of the fortifications of Old Goa city, except the church, have faded or have been destroyed by new concrete walls in this area.
  
  There may also have been other wells catering to needs of residences of the higher strata of society and religious establishments, but historical records tell a tale of how slaves, during the Portuguese era, supplied pure water from the spring to all quarters of the city in great earthen vessels.
  
  A reference to the famous spring can be found in ‘An historical and archaeological sketch of the city of Goa’ by Jose Nicolau da Fonseca, which was published in 1878 in Mumbai. The author quotes from an account by French traveller, François Pyrard de Laval. Pyrard sojourned south Asia for ten years from 1601 to 1611.
  
  “With regard to the water, which is ordinarily drunk in the city and its suburbs, the best and the most wholesome, as well as the lightest, in my opinion, is the one which is sought for at a quarter of a league’s distance from the city, where lies a great fountain of pure and limpid water called Banguenim...” he says in his account.
  
  The Portuguese had built a wall near the spring and routed the water flow by installing pipes into large reservoirs. A large number of men, called mainatos or washermen, and women, would wash clothes here.
  
  The road to the spring was busy most of the time, though not even, but undulating. The place was also teeming with activity late in the nights. “Many persons go together to bathe there, armed with weapons, and dressed only in their shirts and pantaloons,” says Pyrard.
  
  The water from the fountain was sold in the city. The slaves would fill the pots and carry them to spots where they waited for customers. Each pot sold at five bazarucos, the currency of the time.
  
  The Portuguese could easily divert the water via pipes, but they knew it made sense that their slaves make some money selling it water. “Their mode of bringing water gives at once profit and employment to their slaves, and that otherwise foreigners would use this good water without paying for it; because there are more foreigners than Portuguese and natives,” Pryard says.
  
  Fonseca noted in the late 19th century that the spring was in a dilapidated state but the water was still good to drink.
  
  But three decades ago, visitors to the site could see the spring with some of its original features. A bath tub where a few persons could immerse themselves for a dip was showing signs of neglect, but this has decayed and disappeared over the years.
  
  “This is a historic site, as water from the spring was supplied to the city of Goa (now Old Goa). The population is believed to have been around 2 lakh,” says  , a geologist.
  
  The destruction of hydrological sites in this manner happens over a period of time due to natural and man-made intervention. “If you go atop the plateau, one can see that development has opened up the earth, as the capping of the ground in the form of foliage and trees on the soil to retain monsoon water has disappeared,” Fernandes says.
  
  Heritage lovers are saddened by the neglect and government’s lax approach in allowing heritage sites to be destroyed. “The spring was the pride of Goa’s historic capital and its water had therapeutic value. The water resources department should restore it to its original glory,” says Prajal Sakhardande, president, Goa Heritage Action Group.
