edited

  gets another round of cleaning
 
 Times News Network:
 
 Madurai: Nearly 25,000 volunteers, including students and local people participated in a mass cleaning drive of the Vaigai River bed on Thursday, as part of the Swachhta Hi Sewa drive. However experts are of the opinion that a better plan of action is needed to keep the river bed clean and free of garbage.
 
 Swachhta Hi Sewa drive is underway in Madurai from September 15 and will go on till October 2. As part of the drive various parts of the city and district have been taken up for intensive cleaning. Many of the tourist spots and public places have been cleaned so far. The Vaigai River was taken up for cleaning in two parts, by the district administration and Madurai Corporation. While the stretch from Thiruvedagam to Manadimangalam was taken up for cleaning by the district administration, in the city it was cleaned from Kamarajar Bridge to Obulapadithurai.
 
 A total number of 17,060 people participated in the cleaning program conducted in the seven kilometers stretch from Kamarajar Bridge to Obulapadithurai, which was divided into 35 parts. The volunteers numbering 4,000 included corporation employees, tax collectors, unskilled workers, sanitary workers, sweepers, contract labourers and daily wage workers, 8,060 college students, a batch of 5000 people including NCC students and Self Help Groups.
 
 One of the persons who participated in the program was Sirshti Bakshi, a Hong Kong-based professional, who works for women empowerment. She is on a journey from Kanyakumari to Kashmir for the cause where she is meeting women and conducting workshops.
 
 As many as six JCB machines, eight tippers, three mini robots, 20 tractors and sand cleaning machines were used for the cleaning program. A pledge of cleanliness was administered by the Madurai District Collector to the volunteers.
 
 M Shanthi, who participated with her neighbours said that they were ready to work on such programs regularly, but the Corporation authorities should take steps to maintain the places clean, once it was cleared of garbage.
 
 “The Corporation has been conducting cleaning programs in Vaigai in recent times just for publicity as the areas cleaned were littered with less garbage. The places that really need attention are ignored. The channels from Sellur Kanmai to Vaigai River are continuously ignored,” said R Abubacker, founder of the waterbodies protection movement
 
 
