NEW DELHI:   that have been fighting the government’s   guidelines believe that the high court verdict is largely in favour of parents who were robbed of the choice to pick institutes of their liking. 

 The schools now have the right to admit students according to their criteria, going by the same rules that have been followed for the last three years. But this also raises questions on   of the procedure, which the government had tried to control. “With this verdict, the schools have to be more responsible and transparent in their admission process. Parents should be kept happy,” said S K Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools. 
 
 Ashok Pandey, principal of Alchon International School in Mayur Vihar, echoed the sentiment: “The high court has ruled in favour of schools and protected their autonomy, but with that, we also have a greater responsibility to use that autonomy transparently and responsibly.” 
 
 He said the court decision questions the formation of guidelines based on a single point in the allotment letter on giving preference to children in the neighbourhood. “If it has not been enforced all this time, it is because the government agencies have been satisfied with the way schools have taken an applicant’s proximity in consideration,” he said. 
 
 Bhattacharya said the private schools in the city are largely behind maintaining a certain quality of education, and the government should not meddle in their affairs. “We never asked for a change in the guidelines, we are following the norms set by the HC-appointed Ganguly Committee. Yet they want to bring a change in the process,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 Some think the ruling is a win in the fight for equality among schools. “My primary concern with the issue was the discrimination it brings in the fraternity. This verdict ends that difference in attitude towards a section of schools, and that is what makes me happy,” said Minakshi Kushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, one of the private schools on DDA land.
 
 
