KOLKATA: Nightclubs and pubs across the city believe it could be difficult for them to curb excess alcohol consumption through the measures recommended by the police. They could face resistance from their patrons if alcohol consumption is screened, they have pointed out. Also, nightclubs lack the legal authority to compel individuals to limit their alcohol intake, it has been argued. The   (HRAEI) will meet later this week to review the recommendations.

 “Policing is not our job. It is difficult to convince our patrons to refrain from driving in case they have indulged in excess drinking. First, how do you determine if an individual has crossed the limit? Also, it is difficult to ensure that a drunk patron actually takes a taxi back home. He could park his car at a little distance, get into a taxi to reach the place and eventually drive back. Finally, getting customers to take a breathalyzer test would be near impossible. We lack the legal authority to do it. Also, it’s not easy to procure the instrument,” said  , president, HRAEI.
 
 Pub owners felt it would be unfair to hold them responsible for drunken driving. “While we welcome the recommendations, the job of implementing them can’t be left to us. Our patrons may not be honest about the volume of alcohol they have been consuming or the fact that they won’t drive back in case they have crossed the limit. Many hop pubs. It makes it difficult to track their alcohol consumption. There would invariably be many who will claim to have a chauffeur to drive them back, but will actually be at the wheel themselves. We can’t conduct breathalyzer tests. It would result in a chaos,” said TS Walia, owner of The Great Booze Story.
 
 The HRAEI plans to seek a more active police vigil around nightclubs. “There should be police posting around clubs and patrons need to be screened. In case the police suspect drunken driving, they should stop them on the road. This is the only way we can prevent fatal accidents. We can’t do the screening job effectively,” said a member.
 
