PATNA: With Union finance minister Arun Jaitley sanctioning Rs 300 crore in this year’s Budget for laying of a railway line between Wazirganj and Natesar in Gaya district, Gehlaur, the native village of legendry ‘mountain man’   who tore apart rocky mountain single-handedly to carve out a road using chisel and hammer, is set to be linked with railway network.

 Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) R K Jha said the project would be completed on a priority basis up to a stretch of about 20km as a mark of respect to Manjhi. “The railway ministry has sanctioned adequate funds to complete the project within the stipulated time,” he added.
 
 The Budget has also sanctioned Rs 100 crore for the track doubling work between Kiul and Gaya (123km). “After the completion of the project, more passenger trains would run between Kiul and Gaya,” the DRM added.
 
 “Similarly, the Gaya bypass-Manpur line (2km), which will be laid at an expenditure of Rs 6.28 crore, would streamline traffic operations on the route. The Bihta-Aurangabad new line (118km) will also provide an alternative to people. The project will be completed at a cost of Rs 326 crore,” Jha said.
 
 Railways has also decided to build 10 under road subways at railway crossings on   route from safety point of view. “A sum of Rs 12 crore will be spent on building subways at these points by 2019,” the DRM said, adding railways has proposed to run   and Shramjeevi Express with new coaches by replacing the old ones with a view to providing more riding comfort to passengers. 
 
 Jha said though the speed limit has not been increased up to 130 kmph on   route, railways has removed several speed restrictions on the loop lines, bridges and at small stations. “Currently, trains run at a speed of 110kmph on the route. After completion of track renewal work, the speed limit will be increased up to 130kmph to maintain uniformity in the speed of passenger trains running on Howarh-Patna-Mughalsarai-Allahabad-Kanpur-New Delhi route,” the DRM added.
 
