BENGALURU: How to turn your passion into a full-time career? Students who attended the Times UniverCity on Sunday were all ears when experts guided them on ways to choose the career best suited for them. 

  The two-day expo, began on Saturday, provided a platform for both students and parents to interact with representatives from 44 colleges. The sessions on the last day were addressed by Raghu Dixit and Gaurav Vaz, founders of band The Raghu Dixit Project, music entrepreneur and DJ Nikhil Chinapa, and Siddhant More from   among others.
 
 Dixit and Vaz said they had initially opted for entirely different careers. "Always go for launching startups with a cause or purpose, like we decided not to sing any sad songs, but only good ones," Dixit said.
 
 The day started with a session by twin brothers from Indore, Yashraj Bharadwaj and Yuvraj Bharadwaj, class 12 students who own a platform where they provide innovators and startup enthusiasts with a backup for research and analysis along with co-working space. While waiting for the board exam results, they are adding momentum to their co-working space project in Indore, Lucknow and Gurugram. 
 
 “We did all this while we were preparing for class 12  . There were times when some of our questions were not answered by teachers. I was made to stand for hours because I asked questions ahead of my course. This prompted us to think of such a platform ,” said Yuvraj Bharadwaj. 
 
 According to them, a sheet of paper doesn’t decide anyone’s future. It’s better to start innovating and implementing ideas as young as possible to be successful.
 
 The talk was followed by Sanjay Manaktala, who balances the careers as a standup comedian and an engineer. How does he do it? "Shun the social media first. Invest that time for what interests you and makes you feel creative," he said.
 
 Students also got to know about some of the careers which do not need courses to qualify at all. Prithvi, class 12 student, said: "I want to be an engineer and came here to look for engineering courses. I got to know about some exciting careers like comedy, designing and graphic art."
 
 ‘The Trick of the Mind’ session was conducted by mentalist Vish. There were music performances by Joel Jacob and Subham Roy.   on design thinking and culture of making by Akash Kuttapa and Workbench Project team were the other highlights. 
 
