NEW DELHI: Indian cricket's one-time power centre Mumbai has lost its permanent voting status as per the new constitution of the Indian Cricket Board finalized by the   (CoA) appointed by the Supreme Court of India.

 Predictably all the North Eastern states including Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim have been granted full membership and voting rights as recommended in Lodha Panel reforms.
 
 Uttarakhand, Telangana are also full members now.
 
 While Bihar gets back its voting right, it will only start to function after the pending cases are over.
 
 The CoA has uploaded the new Memorandum of Associations (MOA) and Rules & Regulations of   which clearly state that there could be one full member from one state.
 
 Accordingly 41-time Ranji champions are now associate member of BCCI along with Baroda and Saurashtra - the two teams from its mother state Gujarat are now associate members and will take turns to "rotate annually" to vote.
 
 The Mumbai CA representatives although will be permitted to attend General Body meetings but can't vote.
 
 The MOA also states that no association can have proxy system - a clear reference to Delhi and Districts Cricket Association ( ) which has often been known as the most corrupt along with  .
 
 The CoA has strictly adhered to the reforms that have been passed by the Supreme Court as they are in charge of implementation.
 
 Accordingly the AGM of BCCI will have to be conducted by September 30th every year and the Apex Council will go for election in every three years.
 
 The Apex Council will be primarily responsible for the governance of affairs in BCCI. The Apex Council shall comprise of 9 members with five elected - president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. The four others will be nominated members from - a full member of BCCI, two players representatives - male and female along with one representative from CAG.
 
 The day-to-day affairs of BCCI are set to be managed by the CEO with six full time managers at his disposal.
 
 The criteria for national selection committee remained same with chairman entitled to have a casting vote. As has been the convention, captain will attend meetings but won't have a vote.
 
 On overseas tours, captain, vice captain and coach shall constitute selection committee as has been the norm.
 
