Khali peeli, khali peeli rokne ka na hi Mera peechha karega sochne ka nahi Tujhe reject karna Hai yeh right mera Tera FIR karu toh chaunkne ka nahi... Sounds vaguely familiar? To jog your memory, here's the original song from the 2013 film Phata Poster Nikhla Hero that goes: Khali peeli khali peeli rokne ka nahi Tera peechha karoon toh tokne ka nahi Hai tujhpe right mera Tu hai delight mera Tera rasta jo roku chaunkne ka nahi... Roughly translated, it means: 'Don't try to stop me when I'm stalking you. I have my rights on you. You delight me. So don't be shocked when I stop you in your tracks.' This stalking song and six others, in its plagiarised version with a video, is probably the most powerful thing going around on social media these days, subverting gendered tropes in popular Bollywood tunes.

 In a campaign hashtagged #GaanaRewrite launched last month, Akshara, a women's organisation dedicated to the empowerment and safety of women, crowdsourced new lyrics that reimagine   reeking of misogyny , with the hope it might re-sensitize people to offensive behaviour, normalised through an immensely popular medium.
 
 More than 150 movie enthusiasts from across the country responded to the campaign call and dipped into Bollywood's musical repertoire to pull out some crude bombs and rewrite phrases like `Chedenge hum tujhko ladki tu hai badi bombard' and `Girl you're my chammak challo, where you go girl I'm gonna follow' camouflaged as a movie music culture that make people swing, smile and sidestep the content.
 
 The winning verses picked by a panel of judges ­ actor Rahul Bose, lyricist Raj Shekhar, social activist Syeda Hameed and playwright Jyoti Mhapsekar ­ were those tailored as a witty, caustic and parodic takedown of reductive songwriting.
 
 For instance, 18-year-old Nishat Ka ragathala from Sion, in her riposte to Laila o Laila chanted `Nari o nari' after she realised that the song that she'd been dancing to at parties when stripped of its tune was “vulgar with sexual overtones“. Nandita Shah, co-director of Aksha ra stresses that the purpose of the campaign was not to sit on a moral high horse. “We love the magic of Bollywood but why can't it be done without demeaning women? Why go to a level that negates a woman's body or her rights and normalises harassment? With good music and clean lyrics, one can still entertain people. We hope that the film fraternity will self-reflect.“
 
 In a small step of rectifying a longstanding culture of glorifying male chauvinism in their films, Malayali actor Prithviraj Sukumaran issued a public apology last week for having been part of films that celebrated misogyny . “I have mouthed lines that vilified regard for your self-respect and I have taken a bow to the claps that ensued. Never again will I let disrespect for women be celebrated in my movies!“ he wrote in reaction to the recent abduction of his co-actor who was molested by a gang in a moving car.
 
 “Songs are most often eve-teasing weapons,“ points out Shah although film industry veterans have often challenged links between lyrics and abuse. The problem, experts feel, is escalated levels of emotions that a song might evoke after continuous exposure to sadism-laced lyrics. Case in point: In 2015, a 32-year-old Indian in Australia accused of stalking two women escaped conviction after arguing that he was influenced by Bollywood movies and the idea of relentlessly pursuing a woman to eventually make her fall in love. The man was let off by the magistrate on account of his cultural background.
 
 In 2013, a PIL filed by a postal officer in Kerala against the Internet sensation  , meaning `killer rage' in Tamil was dismissed. His theory that a song can incite wrongdoings may not hold water in a court of law but   clones flourish in India's bestselling music.
 
 Ironically, this is at a juncture when films like Lipstick Under My Burkha or Ka Bodyscapes that celebrate female desire or homosexuality get banned while phrases such as Tu toh har angle se juicy hai yaar Rocket mera ready baby continue as music to censor ears.
 
