GUWAHATI: The   on Wednesday said it was for the Centre and the state government to decide if citizenship could be granted to "  from   and other countries living in India. 

 In the same breath, it cautioned that threats to the indigenous people should be given serious consideration by the government.
 
 "The Centre has to look into the impact of citizenship for migrants on the indigenous people," said Ulhas Kulkarni, northeast zone pracharak, RSS. He followed this up with the assertion that India was the "natural home" for persecuted Hindus. 
 
 "If Hindus are suffering elsewhere, India is the only country they can look to. There is no other place for them," he said.
 
 The ambiguity of the stand was waved off quickly. "The RSS, after all, is a social organization. It is for the government to decide where the citizenship issue will stand," Kulkarni said.
 
 The Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, which seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, has triggered wide-scale protests across the state on the grounds that such a step would open the "floodgates" of illegal immigration into  , putting the identity of indigenous people at risk. 
 
 Recently, Union home minister   tried to placate those concerned about the citizenship issue, including alliance partner AGP, reiterating the Centre's commitment to safeguarding Assamese identity and culture by providing constitutional, administrative and legislative protection under Clause 6 of the Assam Accord.
 
 On the recent controversy over sloganeering by RSS trainees at the 18th century Ahom royal palace Kareng Ghar in Sivasagar district, Kulkarni blamed politics for the row.   and leader of the opposition Debabrata Saikia had written to Union culture minister Mahesh Sharma that shouting of slogans at the protected monument was a violation of ASI rules.
 
 "Politics is behind this so-called controversy. There was nothing communal about the slogans. Is shouting 'Bharat mata ki jai' communal? The question of defiling historical monuments like Kareng Ghar does not arise at all," the RSS functionary said.
 
 
