KOCHI: The new   that decriminalizes attempt to suicide will have a positive impact on victims who have been so far viewed as accused under the   (IPC). As   in   is now a major concern, psychiatrists believe that the move will be helpful for people who attempt them as they require counselling and medicines.

 “Suicide attempt is a cry for help. The victims don't want to die but they want to escape from distress. We often notice that after the first attempt, their conflict whether to live or die is over. Many need counselling but some may need medication, “said Dr KP Jayaprakashan, secretary, State Mental Health Authority.
 
 People who attempt suicide are 20 to 30 times more than who commit suicide. The suicide rate in Kerala is 25.6 per lakh population “The new Bill rightly presumes that it is due to an unbearable gesture at the given point in time that they attempt suicide. They need help and not punishment. When there is suicide, the police needs to investigative as one needs to be sure it is really suicide or murder.But in suicide attempt cases, the victim is alive to tell the story,“ said Dr KS Shaji, head, department of psychiatry, government medical college, Trissur.
 
 Psychiatrists say that talking about suicidal feelings will reduce the instance of people attempting suicide.According to them, the difference between people who attempt suicide and who commit suicide is that while the first type of people have temporary mental health issues due to adjustment or interpersonal problems, personality disorder or financial trouble, alcohol and drug abuse, the latter have mental illnesses like depression.
 
 “Suicide attempt is a cry for help and the intention is not to die,“ said Dr Jayaprakashan.
 
 In the past, when an attempt to suicide case was brought to the hospital, the hospital authorities would inform the police, who would come and take statement of the victim but they would hardly register a case. “Cases were registered only when someone threatened suicide or sat on a hunger strike. In common mental disorders such as depression, early identification and management is an important strategy in suicide prevention. Such people need to be seen as those having a mental health problem and needs to be addressed as a health problem,“ said Dr Ajeesh Ramachandran, nodal officer, Comprehensive Mental Health Programme, Ernakulam.
 
