MUMBAI: A woman, her son and his accomplices from   have been arrested for murdering her younger son on her instructions. The victim habitually sexually assaulted his close women relatives, including his 55-year-old mother.

 Fed up with the abuse for over six months, Rajni asked his son from her first marriage, Sitaram, 25, to bump off his step-brother  , 22, for Rs 50,000.
 
 On August 21, the body of an unidentified youth was found in a quarry filled with water. When the   in Vasai (east) were called in, they found stab marks in the neck and began a murder investigation. The names ‘Ramcharan’ and ‘Rajni’ were tattooed on the arms. The police released photographs of the body across police stations in Palghar district, Thane, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.
 
 They were yet to get a lead for almost close to a month, when a woman, Sunita Sharma, who was at Bhayander police station on September 14, identified the victim as Ramcharan. The investigators visited Ramcharan’s house and found out that his mother, Rajni, had earlier visited the police station, but failed to identify her son’s body.
 
 Rajni told the police that Ramcharan had left home on August 19 at around 8pm and had not contacted the family since. Rajni explained that she did not file a missing complaint as Ramcharan, who worked in a factory in Vasai, often stayed away from home for days without informing them.
 
 But the investigators decided to probe further, and finally Rajni confessed to giving a Rs 50,000-contract to Sitaram to eliminate Ramcharan, said Vasai deputy superintendent of police Anil Akde. She was arrested on September 16.
 
 Rajni told the police that Ramcharan was a habitual sexual offender, and had threatened her against disclosing it to his father Ramdas, who also works in a factory. She said Ramcharan had earlier sexually abused his stepmother after bringing her to the city from their native town two years ago. He had also attacked another woman relative, who had threatened to file a police case.
 
 She could not take the torture when Ramcharan began abusing her regularly. She confided in Sitaram, and convinced him to get rid of Ramcharan. At around 2am on August 20, Sitaram woke up Ramcharan and asked him to accompany him to a location to check out vehicles. Sitaram had roped in his friends Rakesh Yadav, 23, and Keshav Mistry, 21. They took Ramcharan to the quarry at Gokhivare village, murdered him and dumped his body in the water.
 
 Ramdas was in the dark and learnt about the abuse and murder during the investigation. Rajni, Sitaram, Yadav and Mistry have been booked for murder and remanded in police custody till September 23.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
