Days after the Election Com mission announced the schedule of the assembly elections in Punjab, a filmmaker from  , near Ludhiana, started going from village to village in the state's Malwa region to screen a movie aimed at highlighting the ordeal of dalits in the state.

 National award-winning director  's only intention to screen the 35-minute movie,  , in villages was to create an alternative distribution system for parallel cinema. Nearly a month later, Kumar's movie has been selected to be screened in the `2017 Short Film Corner' of the Cannes Film Festival from May 22 to 28 -a first for a Punjabi movie on such a subject.
 
 Talking to TOI over the phone from Delhi, Rajeev says the movie is aimed at highlighting the “helplessness“ of marginalized sections of society in Punjab -a state where 28.9% of the population falls in the scheduled caste (SC) category. “I picked up the story of the movie from a piece of dalit literature. It is about a dalit man trying to take the skin of a dead animal to his village. But, because of the com munity the man hails from, he does not get any help from people even though he is willing to pay them,“ says Rajeev.
 
 Rajeev, 47, says he had been interested in theatre and cinema from the beginning. “My friends and I started a theatre group, Lok Kala Manch-Mandi Mullanpur, when we were teenagers. It's been functional for nearly 27 years now. That is where I started,“ he says.
 
 The alumnus of Panjab University's department of Indian theatre also worked with Punjabi theatre legend Gursharan Singh. He made his directorial debut in 1994 with a documentary on the land struggle of dalits in Punjab. “I later went on to work for television channels,“ he says.
 
 His directorial debut, Nabar, won the national award in 2013. The movie, based on the struggle of a small farmer who fights illegal immigration agencies after his son's death, captured a major issue that that has plagued Punjab for decades.
 
 For Rajeev , Chamm was the next step to highlight the issues of the masses. “Nabar was on the issue of a  . I also wanted to explore the subject of marginalized people in our society and Chamm is the result of me going through dalit literature,“ he says.
 
 Rajeev says he will fly to France in the first week of May to make arrangements for the movie. “We hope to get subtitles for the movie, so that an international audience is able to connect with it,“ he says.
 
 Chamm is not just about the plight of Dalits in Punjab, it also delves into other aspects of Punjabi society, he says. “The movie is based in a time when elections are round the corner and shows how candidates of the ruling party and the opposition party try to woo honest, hard-working people for votes,“ he says.
 
 Rajeev has stayed away from commercial subjects for his movies.“I am looking for something in what I make,“ he says.
 
 Rajeev has also made a movie on the struggles of women, Saavi.“A lot of the Punjabi movies and songs that are a hit these days are based on Jatts. I have nothing against them, but there are other sections that make up Punjabi society too,“ he says.
 
