VARANASI: "Pahale hum vote deli, phir khet aakar apan kaam shuru kaili (First I went to cast my vote, then I began my farming work in the field)," said Shanti (60) showing the ink mark on his finger. She was among the early voters in the last phase of assembly polls on Wednesday. 

 Like her, there were several others in Jayapur, the first village adopted by Prime Minister   in his parliamentary constituency, for whom voting comes first before doing daily chores.
 
  For Shanti, it is a duty to cast vote to form government. Many other women, mostly homemakers, stood in queues at the polling booths before preparing meals for the family. "Cooking food is our daily routine but election comes once after five years. Abhi vapas jakar khana bana lenge (We will cook food after returning home)," said Sunita Devi, who was returning home with a group of women after from the polling booth after casting her vote. 
 
  Many of them are beneficiaries of LPG connection under Ujjwala Yojana. It takes no time to cook food, said Shweta Devi. Kamla Devi, Sangeeta, Arti Devi, Shanti Devi and Rajmani were spoke in the same vein. A 73-year-old Rajkumari Devi was also among early birds. 
 
 Men and women started gathering at the polling booths at Primary School, Jayapur before the beginning of polling. Around 35% votes were polled by 12 noon. Jayapur village has 2,419 voters. The village head Narayan Patel said that the polling trend was satisfactory. 
 
 More or less same trend was witnessed in Nageypur, another village adopted by the PM in 2016. There are 1,540 voters in the village and around 40% votes were polled by 1pm. WiFi enabled Nageypur also has facilities such as solar power connection, Nand Ghar (modern Aanganwadi) and vocational training centre for women and farmers.
 
 Most villagers feel proud of being the natives of PM's adopted village. Village head Paras Nath Rajbhar said that solar energy is being supplied to 25 houses out of 525. This village is also the part of Sevapuri assembly constituency. The neighbouring Mehdiganj village, which has 7,000 voters, also witnessed large turnout.
 
  The Patel-dominated Sevapuri constituency is locked in a triangular contest involving Surendra Patel of SP, Mahendra Kumar Pandey of BSP and Neelratan Singh Patel Neelu of AD(S), the ally of BJP. There are 3.18 lakh voters in Sevapuri constituency. Other prominent castes in this constituency are Brahmins, SCs, Bhumihar, Bania and Thakur. 
 
