VARANASI: The   ( ) started the work of laying pipelines for   (CGD), a part of   (JHBDPL) named as Urja Ganga Project, in the city from Sunday. 

 The beginning of road digging on Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) marked the launch of this project in the holy city. The GAIL is investing Rs 570 crore for laying over 129 km pipelines in four district of Varanasi division under this project.
 
 Before the beginning of this project, the GAIL officials gave a presentation before divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, on Saturday evening. After going through the work plan of GAIL, the commissioner informed TOI, "The authority will lay pipeline in 129 km area including 53 km pipeline in Varanasi, 42 km in Jaunpur, and 34 km in Chandauli district. The GAIL officials have been directed to distribute the compensation among the affected land owners on priority and also to ensure that no existing sewage and drinking water supply pipeline is getting affected by their works." In initial phase, the pipeline will be laid on DLW and Banaras Hindu University campus. He said that GAIL officials have also been directed to submit their work plan as the progress in their work will be monitored on fortnightly basis.
 
 As a Diwali gift for Varanasi, Modi had announced CGD for the city and surrounding region in October 2016. During his Varanasi visit, Modi not only gifted CGD but also announced for the launch of JHBDPL Urja Ganga project in five eastern states including UP,  , Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. the project aims at fulfilling energy requirement for household, industries, hotels, cold storages, dairies and vehicles while it will also help in bringing natural gas based crematoriums at cremation grounds including Manikarnika and Harishchandra ghats in Varanasi.
 
 According to GAIL officials, the ambitious 2,540 km Urja Gnga project for five eastern states will fulfill energy requirement of 40 districts and 2,600 villages of these states. The total cost of project is 12,940 crores of which the Union government has sanctioned a grant of Rs 5,176 crores. To develop CGD for seven major cities including Varanasi, Patna, Jamshedpur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar and Katak, falling on the pipeline route of Urja Ganga project, they said, the government of India has assigned the GAIL.
 
 Under CGD project 36.5 lakh population dwelling in 1,535 sq km of Varanasi district will be benefitted. As many as 50,000 families will get PNG connectivity while five lakh cylinders will be given to rural population every year within five years. Besides, 20,000 vehicles will be converted into CNG fueled vehicles in Varanasi, where 20 CNG stations will come up in near future, they added.
 
 
