AURANGABAD: Here is some good news for  . 

 A system that creates a knee fit for Indian ethnicities and also offers improved bio-mechanics is now available for replacement during surgeries concerned. 
 
 Termed as a technological breakthrough by orthopaedic community, the total knee replacement surgery is said to be economical also for patients having 20% less cost involved as compared to other existing options. 
 
 Rajeev Mohagaonkar, senior orthopaedic surgeon, said that every knee has a unique shape and size and its virtually impossible for off-the-shelf designs to fit each patient. 
 
 “In India, even if the success percentage of Total Knee Replacement (TKR) is around 80%, some patients complain of persistent pain even after undergoing knife, signifying many aspects of implants used during the surgery. These implant related issues associated with Indian ethnicities and physique can now be taken care of to a large extent using latest implant technology available,” he said. 
 
 He said new TKR system has a design that can provide reliable pain relief and improvement in knee functioning of patients for over 15 years.
 
 “The new technology can be termed as revolutionary as it has been designed keeping the Indian population in mind as they have smaller bones. The system has multiple size options resulting in better sizing thereby improving the results dramatically,” he said. 
 
 Orthopaedic community attributed two factors to improper fit of an implantOverhang and Underhang. 
 
 The Overhang occurs when the implant is bigger than the bone surface, which may impinge upon the soft tissues surrounding the knee joint causing pain. Underhang occurs when the implant does not cover all the exposed cut bone which may also result in pain, it was said. 
 
 Experts said the latest aforesaid technology has been designed to deliver improved value for those undergoing medical care with a goal to make total knee replacement more accessible, more affordable and more appropriate without compromising on quality, functional outcome, or implant longevity.
 
 On preventive care for keeping knees intact, health experts have suggested proper intake of   along with maintaining a proper Body Mass Index and regular exercise. 
 
 Around 10 lakh patients undergo knee replacement every year, while in India the number is only around 50,000, it was said.
 
