CHANDIGARH: With most unrecognized   failing to fulfil the norms needed for recognition and government schools having no scope of enrolment, the future of thousands of children is at stake.

 Going by the report prepared and submitted by the committees formed for inspecting unrecognized schools, the education department will be shutting down more than 57 unrecognized schools having more than 15,000 students.
 
 According to the report, out of 65 schools that applied for recognition, the committees have recommended only seven. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, told TOI, “The report has been submitted to the district education officer. Seven schools have been recommended but it is yet to be decided whether these schools will be granted recognition or not.”
 
 Initially, the department had identified 97 schools, including two madrasas, but only 65 applied for recognition by filling form number 1. There are more than 18,000 students studying in unrecognized schools of Chandigarh, while the seven schools recommended by the committees formed only have around 2,600 students enrolled.
 
 The four committees, formed by the department, prepared a detailed report after inspecting 65 unrecognized schools that had filled form number one. The committees were headed by deputy director, vocational education, deputy director, adult education, deputy district education officer and assistant director, vocational education.
 
 The committees mentioned the anomalies in the schools, whether the school can be considered for recognition or not and suggested names of nearby government schools in which children studying in these schools could be shifted. However, only a handful of government schools offer a scope of further enrolment. “Even after adjusting children in government schools that have some space, thousands of children will be left out. It is going to be difficult to admit all children,” said a member of one of the four committees.
 
 In areas like Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Hallomajra and Industrial Area, no government school was suggested for adjusting the children from unrecognized schools of these areas as they were already overcrowded. None of the schools in these areas was recommended for granting recognition.
 
 These areas house maximum number of unrecognized schools in Chandigarh and have around 12,000 students, out of a total of around 18,000 students studying in unrecognized schools, enrolled.
 
 The first committee inspected around 26 schools having 4,054 students in Behlana, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, and  . The second committee inspected 24 schools having 4,011 students in Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Dhanas, Dadumajra, Maloya, Maloya village and colony and Sector 40. The third committee inspected 32 schools and two madrasas having 8,802 students in Mauli Jagran, Vikas Nagar, Mauli Colony, Daria, a few from Manimajra and the fourth committee inspected 21 schools having 2,092 students in Khuda Ali Sher, Kajheri, Burail, Butrela and sectors 19, 41, 44 and 52.
 
 How the issue was raised
 
 The issue of unrecognized school was raised in 2015. The education department had first collected the information after a question was raised by local MP   regarding the implementation of norms under the Right to Education Act in   on August 5, 2015. In the same year, a parent had also brought up the issue of safety of children in these schools by complaining to education department after which the department started identifying these schools
 
 Recognition must under Right to Education
 
 Under the Right to Education Act, schools cannot function without obtaining the certificate of recognition and will be liable to a fine of Rs 1 lakh or more
 
 
 
 
 Schools | Section | | Enrolment
 
 Sehjott Senior Secondary School, Dadumajra | Senior secondary | 624
 
 Navyug Public School, Dadumajra | Pre-primary and primary | 455
 
 Prem Saria Sarvhitkari School, Maloya | Pre-primary and upper primary | 520
 
 Star Public School, Kajheri | KG-V | 297
 
 Green Shivalik School, Khuda Ali Sher | Pre nursery-Class VIII | 281
 
 Adarsh Public School, Burail | Primary | 101
 
 Green Valley Public School, Dadumajra | Primary | 32
 
 
 
 
 School buildings not accessible to fire brigade
 
 Small size of classrooms and labs
 
 Lack of proper ventilation
 
 Number of toilets are not appropriate as per strength of students
 
 Shortage of classrooms
 
 No computer lab
 
 No playgrounds
 
 No laboratories
 
 Not physically-disabled friendly
 
 No separate toilets for girls and boys
 
 Salary of staff not as per norms
 
 No site plan approved by estate office
 
 No occupation certificate along with latest building non-violation certificate
 
 No facility for drinking water
 
 Why shifting is a problem
 
 Most of these schools are running in periphery areas and government schools operational in these areas are already having a skewed pupil-teacher and student-classroom ratio.
 
 
 
 
 Pre-primary | 9
 
 Primary | 55
 
 Middle | 27
 
 High | 2
 
 Senior secondary | 2
 
 Out of these, two are madrassas located in Manimajra.
 
 
