MUMBAI: India's federal investigator has charged embattled billionaire   with using IDBI Bank loans to fly his private jet and pay off other lenders, highlighting the misuse of borrowed money by the liquor baron's mothballed   that was once billed among the finest to fly South Asian skies.
 
  “Vijay Mallya and other accused   (Kingfisher Airlines) officials diverted significant portion of the loan for purposes other than those for which the loans were sanctioned,” the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has said in its chargesheet on the Rs 950-crore loans the carrier had raised between 2009 and 2010 from IDBI Bank. Nine, including five IDBI Bank executives, are in judicial custody until February 7.
  
  Mallya, who remains chairman of India’s biggest beer maker United Breweries and was once compared with   for his demonstrated love for glamour and glitz, expanded into the airline business more than a decade ago when a rapidly expanding economy made India the nerve-center of global aviation.
  
  Aviation profits, however, plunged from 2008 in kilter with a decelerating global economy and subsequent record prices of  , pushing   into bankruptcy. The company and Mallya are now under federal investigation for non-payment of about Rs 9,000 crore to Indian lenders.
  
  According to the CBI, the airline had told a consortium of lenders, including IDBI Bank, that it needed Rs 2,000 crore to pay lease rentals of aircraft, clear dues to fuel suppliers and the state-run airports operator, and pay for engineering and maintenance of aircraft.
  
  IDBI Bank had sanctioned three loans of Rs 150 core, Rs 200 crore and Rs 750 crore between 2009 and 2010 to Kingfisher Airlines, disbursing Rs 950 crore in total to the carrier.
  
  The CBI has said Rs 200 crore was used to repay an earlier IDBI loan of Rs 200 crore availed on Novermber 6, 2009, while Rs 345 crore was utilised to transfer funds in India.
  
  The CBI has said that the bulk of the loan amount disbursed by IDBI Bank was diverted by officials of Kingfisher Airlines to pay its trade creditors, extinguish statutory dues, transfer to other accounts of Kingfisher Airlines with   and   for settling their liabilities in such banks, and also for payment of loans/lease rental for the corporate jet acquired by the company for Mallya’s personal use.
  
  The CBI also said that Kingfisher Airlines, despite collecting taxes from service providers and employees, had failed to pay the Income Tax department on time. When IDBI Bank sanctioned loan of Rs 750 crore, Kingfisher Airlines released three cheques in favour of the income tax department from proceeds of the loan. “Payment to I-T department neither formed part of the loan appraisal note nor was mentioned anywhere in the request letters seeking the loan,” the CBI said in the chargesheet.
  
  The agency also noted that while Kingfisher Airlines had claimed that it would use loan proceeds for payment towards Airports Authority of India and Bangalore International Airport, the funds were routed to accounts held with Bank of Baroda.
  
  “During the course of the investigation, e-mails to the effect that accused Vijay Mallya was personally controlling the utilisation of funds released by various banks including IDBI Bank have been seized,” the CBI said in the chargesheet. 
