PUNE: Personnel from Thane police crime branch and the weights and measures department sealed a   at a petrol pump in Chandannagar that was suspected of tampering with fuel quantity. 

 The action against the pump, located along the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, was case number 122 in a series of raids on suspect units by Thane police in the state. In Pune, three units have been sealed so far. 
 
 “The sealing of the unit at the D’Mello petrol pump was done after a suspect — held for alleged involvement in an inter-state fuel dispensing racket — told us about illegal activity at this particular petrol pump,” Kalyan Karpe, an inspector with Thane’s Kapurbawadi police, told TOI on Saturday.
 
 “The unit at the   was found to be supplying less fuel . The unit was inspected in the presence of a revenue official, a district supplies officer, officials from the Indian Oil Corporation, a technician and Agnelo D’Mello, the pump’s owner,” Karpe added. 
 
 Other dispensing machines at the pump were found to be legal, authorities said. 
 
 Seized parts will now be sent to the manufacturer and cops will decide on charges after an official report. 
 
 According to police officials, several suspects detained as part of the probe into the  , have claimed that fuel-dispensing units at most petrol pumps in the state have been tampered with.
 
 But pump owner Agnelo D’Mello has denied any illegal activity. “We abide by regulations laid down by IOCL. I had started a new unit a year ago and it was certified okay by experts. But the technician expressed doubts about the sealant. I condemn the police action,” he said. 
 
 IOCL’s deputy general manager (Pune division) Subrat Rath said suspicious parts had indeed been found. “The parts will be certified after testing,” he said. 
 
 The raid has also been condemned by the All India Petrol Dealers Association.  , a spokesperson, said, “The oil company official, present during the raid on the D’Mello pump, said no irregularities had been found. But police proceeded to seal a unit. We condemn this harassment.” 
 
