Hyderabad: The corrugated box manufacturing industry in the two Telugu speaking states is literally in tatters due to paper mills hiking the prices of kraft paper, which is the primary raw material used by the industry. Since January this year, the prices of kraft paper have risen by around 22-29% and currently, a tonne of kraft paper costs on an average Rs 32,000, industry experts said.

 Kraft paper constitutes 80% of the cost of corrugated boxes. Apart from the hike in the price of paper, the costs of adhesives, labour, freight and other things have also gone up by 20-40% in the last couple of years, putting pressure on the industry.
 
 “The rise in paper prices is orchestrated and does not reflect the actual demand and supply scenario. Till now, mills have been making sufficient profits as most of them have been expanding capacities. In fact, to create shortage and to hike paper prices, mills have been shutting down operations for up to five days every month,” Andhra Pradesh Corrugated Box Manufacturers Association president MVM Bharat alleged. The industry across Telangana and AP consists of about 1,500 units employing over 80,000 people.
 
 The total capacity of mills across the country is around 5 lakh tonnes of kraft paper per annum, of which the corrugation box industry consumes around 4 lakh tonnes per annum.
 
 ML Agarwal of Asian Corrugated Case Association pointed out that all paper mills across the country have been increasing the price of paper by the same amount and on same days, raising suspicion that they are operating as a cartel. Agarwal added that though there has been some increase in the price of waste paper overseas, it is used by mills only for manufacturing higher grade of kraft paper. Whereas, the lower grades of kraft paper are made from domestic waste, where the price hike has been minimal. Therefore the hike in high grade and low grade kraft paper cannot be the same, he added.
 
 Corrugated boxes are largely used in packaging and a disruption in supplies of corrugated boxes can lead to disruption in the supply chain of all major consumer products, he added.
 
 Ankkit Agarwal, joint secretary, AP Corrugated Box Manufactures Association, said the industry wants the government's intervention and support by way of power subsidy.
 
 
