PATNA:   ( ) academics on Tuesday emphasized the need of an effective management of the ever-increasing population of the country with a view to ensuring its all-round progress.

 Addressing a function to mark the World Population Day organized by the   (PRC) of   here, they observed that no development plan could succeed unless the population growth is checked. India and China together constitute 37% of the world population. It is really very difficult to sustain such a vast population with the limited resources available, they said.
 
 They said some 225 million women around the world, who want to avoid pregnancy, are not using safe and effective family planning methods for reasons ranging from lack of access to information or services to lack of support from their partners or communities. Most of these women with an unmet demand for contraceptives live in 69 of the poorest countries on earth. Access to safe, voluntary family planning is a human right. It is also central to gender equality and women’s empowerment, and is a key factor in reducing poverty, they opined.
 
 Inaugurating the function, PU pro-vice-chancellor Dolly Sinha said as youth constitute a major portion of the country’s population, they should be made aware of the importance of population control. “The youth, if properly educated, can do wonders in checking the population growth and bringing in prosperity to the society,” she said. 
 
 PU statistics department head and PRC director R N Mishra, in his welcome address, pointed out that the theme for 2017 is ‘Family Planning: Empowering People, Developing Nations’. This year’s celebrations coincide with the Family Planning Summit, the second meeting of the Family Planning 2020 initiative, which aims at expanding access to voluntary family planning to 120 million additional women by 2020.
 
 PU former vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Sinha, statistics department former heads Akhileshwar Prasad, Amarendra Mishra and Rama Shankar Mishra, Patna Science College principal S K Srivastava, PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha and registrar Rabindra Kumar also addressed the function. PRC joint director Dilip Kumar proposed a vote of thanks. 
 
