CHENNAI: If you're a newbie to the   campus or just have some time on your hands to explore the campus, your tour guide to the campus' natural attractions or history spots could be right on your cell phone.
Students of the institute launched the   app on the 11th anniversary celebrations of the IIT-M   on Monday.
 
 The app is a guide to two trails -one that will take you through heritage spots like  , Building Science Block and the Open Air Theatre -and the other through zones with natural attractions where you can hope to see blackbuck and endangered species of animals and birds in a wooded area.
 
 While the heritage trail has about 15 marked locations, the other has 10. The students are hoping to add more locations to the trails in the coming months.
 
 The app also will display detailed descriptions of each heritage spot and, for new visitors, bus route and bus stop information will help guide them through the trails.
 
 “The idea was first proposed by one of our profes sors who said few people who visit the campus know much about the history of IIT. So we thought of developing this app for the heritage centre day celebrations,“ said Devunuri Sai Praneeth, one of a four-member team that developed the app over a period of three months.
 
 The other three members are Omkar Patil, Sathwik C and Anurag S.
 
 Apart from the app going live on the Google Play store on Monday , a model of Gajendra Circle (a popular landmark on the campus) in its original form, as built in the 1950s, was also unveiled by 1964 batch alumnus R Mahadevan, director of  . While the idea of the Heritage Centre was mooted in 2000, it was formally inaugurated by Arcot Ramachandran, former director of IITMadras, on March 3, 2006.The Centre is located on the ground floor of the administration building and functions as a repository of material of heritage value and historical significance of various facets of the institute.
 
 The exhibits include photographs, documents, publications, paintings, portraits, products developed at IIT-M and other articles.
 
 Information regarding important events, laboratory development, visits of important dignitaries, IndoGerman cooperative activities, and academic achievements of faculty and students are included in the repository. 
 
