The late   chief minister J Jayalalithaa had never identifi ed anyone as her political heir. After her untimely demise,   and Panneerselvam emerged as key aspirants to the coveted top post. With Sasikala behind   after nominating Edappadi K Palaniswami in her   and OPS scrambling for numbers,   draws up a list of   MLAs to watch out for:
 
  
 
  Author of two career guidance books & entrepreneur-turned-twotime MLA. Having defected from Vijaykanth’s DMDK, Pandiarajan grew in strength during Jaya regime. His loyalty to Jayalalithaa and his ability to handle complex state and central issues won him the post of   minister and was appointed as state’s lone representative for the national GST council. After initially choosing to remain with Sasikala, he joined OPS camp.
  
  
 
  Three-time MLA, known for his proximity to Sasikala’s extended family. When Jaya had to step down after being sentenced by the Bangalore trial court in the DA case, Balaji’s name was rumoured to be Jaya’s choice as a stand-in CM. Although OPS was eventually given the chance for a third time, Balaji’s name had been established by then as someone who wouldn’t mind giving the top post a shot if the opportunity arises.
  
  
 
  Number 3 minister during Jayalalithaa regime, remains loyal to Sasikala. Served as AIADMK treasurer between 2001 and 2007, was Sasikala’s fi rst choice to replace   as treasurer after OPS dissented. An AIADMK strongman and a four-time Member of Parliament from Dindigul (1989, 1991, 1998 and 1999). Won assembly   in 2016 and was made the state environment and forest minister
  
  
 
  Has been a Rajya Sabha MP and Lok Sabha MP, was state minister after becoming MLA from   constituency in 2016, known to be close to Sasikala’s brother Divaharan. Observers call him the man with the muscle power for AIADMK in Myladuthurai. When Sasikala was ousted from Poes Garden in 2012, Manian also fell out of Jaya’s favour. But Manian was back in play after Jaya welcomed Sasi back
  
  
 
  A doctor by profession; Jayalalithaa had appointed this two-time Member of Legislative Assembly as   minister twice during her regime. Just about 42 years of age, Basker has a long political career ahead. Observers consider him staunch loyalist of Sasikala’s husband M Natarajan
  
  
 
  Five-time Member of Legislative Assembly from coastal Royapuram, known as a friend of fi shermen. Fell out of Jayalalithaa’s favour allegedly after the supremo was informed of a birthday bash hosted by him where one of his loyalists apparently hailed him as the future Tamil Nadu chief minister. Observers say Jaya had a soft corner for him because he shared her brother’s name
  
  
 
  AIADMK veteran, ardent MGR and Jayalalithaa loyalist and eighttime Member of Legislative Assembly; won 2016 assembly polls from Gobichettipalayam in western Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district. Considered one of the most prominent leaders of the Kongu (western Tamil Nadu) belt for AIADMK. Had his share of rough weather — falling in and out of Jayalalithaa’s favour. With Sasikala after Jayalalithaa’s demise
  
  
 
  4-time MLA is with OPS. An AIADMK veteran, Semmalai is said to have arrived at OPS doorstep without an invitation. He is said to have called OPS over phone and said “the party should not fall and it should remain to stand tall. That is why I am supporting you and I am on my way to your house now.” Observers, however, say Semmalai switched over to OPS camp because his   counterpart Palaniswami was gaining prominence in the Sasikala camp
  
  
 
  Most known for his stint as the head of the staterun Arasu Cable Television Corp. Currently, housing and urban development minister in OPS council of ministers; a Sasikala loyalist. Jaya trusted  , AIADMK’s Tirupur district youth wing secretary, in 2011 to break the   of Maran brothersowned Sumangali Cable Vision. A controversial audio recording allegedly featuring the voice of the minister demanding money for telecasting a channel got him in trouble. He denied these allegations and continued to be in the good books of the leadership
  
  
 
  Four-time Member of Legislative Assembly; known to be close to Sasikala’s husband Natarajan, considered AIADMK’s   (Tindivanam and Villupuram) strong man. A fi erce Vanniyar leader for AIADMK, is believed to have rushed to Poes Garden late on February 7 to clarify his stand and prove his loyalty to Sasikala after some reports emerged that he was moving over to Panneerselvam camp 
