LUCKNOW: Following   ultimatum for a   within 15-days, acting mayor Suresh Awasthi assured that beginning Monday   will be swept twice a day and LMC trash cans will be emptied on regular basis. A reality check by TOI on the first day found the condition on the roads as usual, with   all around,   on sides and stray animals feeding on it.

 Residents of 90% areas including Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Mahanagar, Vikasnagar, Jankipuram, Rajajipuram and Old City said there was no sweeping even once of inter-colony roads and bylanes.
 
 “After we read in the newspaper that   is planning to conduct cleaning of roads twice daily with immediate effect, I decided to check it out but for the entire day on Monday not even once did any sanitary worker came to sweep the roads in my area,“ said Shruti Bhatnagar, a resident of Gol Darwaza in Chowk.
 
 Even the arterial stretches including Vikramaditiya Marg, Charbagh main road, KD Singh Babu Stadium stretch, BN Road, Souza Road, Hanuman Setu Bridge, University Road, Samtamulak crossing, Lohia Path and Telibagh were not cleaned on the first day of the Mayor's announcement.
 
 Right in the middle of an office place on Gokhale Marg huge piles of trash were spotted right next to an overflowing trash can. Locals complained that for the past couple of days they were witnessing a similar situation.
 
 “After the dust storm on May 4, several trees and bushes were uprooted and the next day all of it accumulated near the trash can and we thought LMC workers would clear it up but it has been almost a week since garbage has been collected or the roads cleaned,“ said Riddhi Gaur, a resident of Gokhale Marg.
 
 There are several localities in the city where residents have employed sanitary workers to clean up roads at their own expenses. “It has been over 15 years that I am living in this locality but not even once have I seen any municipal worker in the area so we decided to contribute Rs 50 per month to private workers to get roads and parks swept,“ said Ajay Asthana, a resident of Rajajipuram.
 
 In some areas drains had been just cleaned and the sludge placed on the roadside. Late Monday night's heavy downpour put most of it back into the drains. It may have been a freak shower but monsoon is not too far and if the corporation fails to streamline waste management, the city is in for a mess that would even give rise to infectious diseases, besides problem of movement, stink and disgraceful surroundings, fear residents.
 
 Suresh Awasthi said, “There was no sweeping on Monday but I assure it will start very soon and the entire city will be cleaned.“
 
 
 
 
 Residents are as much to blame for the civic mess as the municipal authorities but it is the latter that needs to get its act together and fast. Citizens can form self-help groups to keep sanitation workers of their areas in the loop and ensuring their regular attendance while the corporation should mobilise its workforce to focus entirely on the job of cleaning up the city and sustaining the exercise. Symbolic efforts as of top authorities wielding the broom won't help so they will have to create an employment opportunity out of sanitation work, paying the outsourced workers on daily wages.
 
