Panaji: The presence of grounded offshore casino vessel, MV Lucky Seven close to the Miramar shore amid the current pattern of gusty winds and powerful tidal action, calls for quick action to prevent any damage to the coast, experts said.

 “Wind and heavy rain over the past two days can put the vessel at risk. Whether it will remain within the sand or drift away with the wind and the current is tough to speculate,” said senior scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, Dona Paula, Baban Ingole.
 
 Ignoring several warnings by port authorities, the vessel, which is owned by former Haryana home minister Gopal Kanda, had been trying unsuccessfully to sail into River Mandovi before running aground.
 
 Ingole said the government should proceed to remove the vessel at the earliest.
 
 “This is not the season wherein the vessel can be taken for a ride along the shoreline. From the environmental point of view, it should be removed immediately depending on the feasibility owing to the monsoon,” Ingole said.
 
 The government has directed the vessel owner to relocate it to Mormugao harbor. Strong winds and other conditions, however, have stalled the exercise to shift it.
 
 Ingole suggested that the Captain of Ports form a committee to assess the vessel and accordingly decide whether it can be allowed to continue being stationed there.
 
 “A group of experts must be put together to analyse the vessel. The conditions of the hull, quantity of oil, height/weight parameters, etc have to be assessed,” he added.
 
 The widespread disintegration of the Candolim-Sinquerim shoreline in which about 100 metres of the coast was eroded due to the presence of River Princess, is an example of the impending disaster that can be caused by the presence of a big vessel near the coast, Ingole said.
 
 “The extent of damage to land and houses caused during that period is in the public domain. Those kind of threats are lurking for Miramar as well, if the vessel drifts to the shore,” he said.
 
 
