UDUPI: It is statistically good news to be senior citizen in this temple town. Consider this, the district has distributed identity card to 25179 senior citizens aged above 60 years. The helpline set up for senior citizens has received 3463 calls; registered 289 cases based on these calls and addressed 244 cases. The district administration has given old age pension to 4803 people and covered 67182 under the government’s Sandhya Suraksha scheme.

 The programme for senior citizens on International Day of Older Persons celebration was organised by the district administration with various agencies at  . The administration has also taken care to ensure that senior citizens receive concession on JnNURM city services run by  . In addition, 10-beds have been set aside exclusively in the geriatric care district hospital.
 
 Ruing the fact that instance of neglect and abuse of the elderly is on the rise of late, district minister Pramod Madhwaraj said it is imperative for all households to respect and love them and such an atmosphere should be created in society. It is not enough to merely honour the elderly at functions or at their forums. The accent should be for the youth, family members to do so and thereby enable the vision of a Ramarajya as envisaged by Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, he said.
 
 One can see many instances family members and people around giving trouble to the elderly in the houses, misusing their property. Such incidents makes a civil society hang its head in shame, he said reminding the youth of today that they too will reach that stage at one point in their lives where their children could so harass them. “Society in general and youth in particular should inculcate the habit of respecting and taking care of the elderly,” he said.
 
 Senior civil judge and member secretary,   exhorted the society not to forget services rendered by the elderly during their youth. Due care should be taken to ensure that the elderly do not feel insecure, she said reminding the audience that apex court has ensured formulation of several enactments to protect the elderly. The legal services authority is coming to their aid with programmes such as  , she said.
 
