PUNE:   ( ) property tax department has recorded a 35% rise in online payment of property tax in the current fiscal as compared to the last year.

 Around Rs 200 crore in property tax was paid online in the current fiscal, as against Rs 160 crore last year. The total property tax collected so far in the current fiscal is Rs.1,098 crore.
 
 A rise in online tax collection is an outcome of healthy rise in online transactions. Over 55,000 additional online transactions took place in 2016-17 as against last year, the PMC’s property tax department said.
 
 The department so far has recorded 2.11 lakh online transactions for tax payments against last year’s 1.56 lakh transactions. There is growth of 35% in the number of transactions and about 25% rise in tax collections.
 
 Officials in the department said that statistics show that more residents were opting for online gateways to pay property tax to avoid long waiting in queues.
 
 The department has said that property owners have various options for online payment, including debit/credit cards, online transfer through bank account and direct transfers. The process of online payment has been explained on PMC’s website.
 
 The civic body has set a target of Rs 1,445 crore as property tax collection in 2016-17. Last year, property tax collection had reached up to Rs 1158 crore. The civic body is eyeing to cross last year’s tax collection.
 
 Meanwhile, officials in the property tax department said that ahead of the year ending they have constituted teams to intensify tax recovery.
 
 “We have been appealing to tax payers to clear their dues before the end of current financial year. Out teams are visiting those properties where taxes have been due despite repeated follow ups. The teams have sealed many commercial properties in last few weeks over non-payment of taxes. The flying squads have recovered Rs 73 crore tax dues from beginning of March,” officials said.
 
 Property tax is one of the largest sources of revenue for the civic body. PMC is solely responsible for levying and collecting property tax. The civic body covers more than 8 lakh properties in its purview. Besides online gateways, the administration also accepts payments in cash at the property tax collection centres and at the PMC’s main building.
 
 BOX:
 
 5% discount proposed on online tax payment 
 
 The civic body has tabled a proposal for giving 5% discount to tax payers who pay the entire property tax online. The civic body has proposed that the discounted amount be adjusted against next year’s property tax payment. The proposal is expected to be discussed in the civic body’s general body meeting.
 
 
