KOCHI: Kerala's   (MDM) was recognized as one of the most-successful and transparent systems in the country at a meeting of southern region's DPIs ( ). At present, 97.71% of the students enrolled in government and aided schools (both primary and upper primary sections) are covered by the scheme.

 Over 26,54,807 students studying in 12,327 government and aided schools are part of the programme.   KV Mohankumar said that the number of students enrolled in the programme over the past one year has increased by one lakh.
 
 He credits the school noon feeding committee for the success of the meal programme. The committee has PTA president, the school headmaster, a local self-government ward member, PTA members, representative parents from the SCST, minority communities and disabled kids as its members.
 
 “In Kerala, `noon feeding committee' convenes a meeting every month and they look into the quality of products being purchased, the taste of the food and financial aspects as well. So with the assistance of the committee, we are able to ward off a lot of hazards. Not a single incident of food poisoning was reported last year despite the huge scale of operations,“ said Mohankumar.
 
 Apart from the committee, a district-level monitoring committee, which includes the district collector, senior MPs in the district and the deputy director of education, looks into issues concerned and resolves them quickly to ensure a timely meal for students.
 
 As per the Annual World Plan and Budget 2017-18 for the scheme, 16 meetings were held in Kerala this year to know the ground realities. The mostcommon concerns that were raised at the meeting were the improvement of basic infrastructural facility , quality of food, hygiene during food preparation and setting up vegetable gardens in schools.
 
 “The problem in most schools is that there is not enough area to have a fullyfunctional kitchen. Several schools have not been able to facilitate a drainage from the kitchen in a proper manner.This leads to unhygienic condi tions,“ said, state secretary of Ker ala State Teach ers' Association KC Ali Ikbal.
 
 He said the best solution is to have a central ized kitchen facil ity for a group of schools operat ing in a certain region. At pre sent, there are no centralized kitch ens operating in the state.
 
 Though the food safety officers of the department of food safety conduct random checks, thorough inspection of kitchen facilities were conducted in four districts last year. The food and water of all schools enrolled for the programme will be tested at district laboratories of the food safety department from the next academic year.
 
 “When we conducted our inspection, we received complaints that some of the water tanks in Kollam and Alappuzha were old. We had them replaced,“ said Mohankumar.
 
 He said that he will also prepare a memorandum of understanding with   to inspect MDM services regularly.
 
