MUMBAI: In the run-up to the 2014 assembly elections, BJP’s poll plank was rampant corruption, large-scale irregularities and massive cost escalation in   projects approved by the then state water resources ministers,   and  , of the NCP. Now two years later, the   government led by chief minister   too has accepted a cost overrun of more than Rs 20,000 crore in 133 such irrigation projects, most of which are in the   region which is considered a BJP stronghold.
 
  The projects, which were approved under the erstwhile Congress-NCP regime, were then estimated to cost Rs 11,835 cr. Now, fresh approvals have pegged the total expenditure at Rs 32,935cr, projecting a nearly 200% increase in budgets.
  
  Of the 133, increase in outlay for 17 projects have been approved directly by the state cabinet, including the ones where a substantial hike in costs has been foreseen such as the Gosikhurd works (whose cost has been revised upwards from Rs 5,659 crore to Rs 18,495 crore) and the Painganga scheme (up from Rs 92 crore to Rs 716 crore). The other projects were cleared either by an expenditure priority committee or by regional irrigation development corporations.
  
  Water resources minister   defended the cost escalation saying there was transparency in the decision-making process unlike during the Congress-NCP regime and there was no scope for corruption and irregularities. Much of the budget overrun has been attributed to the rising cost of land acquisition and rehabilitation.
  
  A senior bureaucrat, on condition of anonymity, said two technical appraisal committees were formed to scrutinise the proposals before they were cleared. He said the proposals were “never dealt with by Mahajan” at any stage. “All proposals are available for scrutiny and we are prepared for correction,’’ he added.
  
  “It’s a fact that there is a cost escalation in all the 133 projects, but there is strong justification. We studied procedures adopted by the earlier Congress-NCP government to ensure that the new system is transparent. Once the projects are completed, they will go a long way in creating massive irrigation potential,’’ he said.
  
  According to the official, a scrutiny of proposals approved by the previous government showed a hike in costs at the stage of floating tenders; large amounts were spent even before granting revised administrative approval. “Cost of tenders was much higher than the actual cost of the project. Massive advances were paid to contractors even before revised administrative approval was granted. In addition, key projects were approved without securing approval of forest and environment department. As a result, most of these projects were stuck halfway. In the new system, we ensured that cost of project is as per tender norms and no advances will be paid and work will not start unless formalities are completed,’’ he said.
  
  Flawed designs approved under the Congress-NCP government have resulted in delays in execution and due to this cost of land acquisition and rehabilitation has increased manifold, said the official.
  
  During the Congress-NCP rule, it was found that the cost of the Kondhane project increased from Rs 56 crore to Rs 614 crore, Kalu project from Rs 382 crore to Rs 700 crore and   project from Rs 414 crore to Rs 1,600 crore. After the CM granted permission for an open inquiry, the anti-corruption bureau began a probe into all three projects and FIRs were subsequently lodged.
