 is one actor, who’s very conscious about choosing scripts that are out of the box. And back-to-hits like  , Karthikeya, Surya vs Surya, Shankarabaranam or Ekkadiki Pothavu Chinnavada, have proven that he has his heart in the right place. “See, I’m no superstar who has a huge fan following or a   that people will come to theatre to just watch me. So, it’s the story that matters most for me. There is so much competition in the market. Out of 140-150 films that are made every year, my films have to stand out,” says Nikhil adding, “My strength lies in the kind of films I choose and trying to do something different everytime. I’m happy to be getting some really incredible scripts which have give me a change to reinvent myself.”
His upcoming release,   touted to be an action thriller. “I’ve done crime-comedy, family entertainers, love stories and sci-fi thrillers earlier, what stands apart in all these films is the climax, that surprises all. When I sit and listen to any script, what excites me the most when I can’t guess what the climax is. That’s what happened when   narrated me the story of Keshava. The audience will not know what’s going to happen till the end, and that’s the beauty of it’s plot,” explains Nikhil.
 “After Swamy Ra Ra, I’ve been wanting to work with Sudheer. We know each other for years now — like in-and-out, he’s more like a friend to me. So when he told me that he wants to move from crime comedy (Swamy Ra Ra) to an action movie (Keshava), I got excited. Out of 14 films I’ve done till date, I’ve never touched action ever, so it was even more exciting for me,” adds Nikhil.
 Talking about the film’s storyline, he says, “I play a meek young man, Keshav Sharma who can’t do anything in life. Yet, he takes on the lead for society and fights for justice. The film is set in Kakinada and the film will be very rustic and real visually. Having said that, the sound and look of the film will be very modern though. And trust me, every location in the film is real, not even a single set was erected.”
 
