Coimbatore: While the government has finally started land survey for the Avinashi-Athikadavu groundwater recharge scheme with the chief minister promising to complete it within 30 months, social activists who have been campaigning for the scheme are crying foul. The new plan for the scheme leaves out critical parts of Annur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Mettupalayam and Karamadai, which will make the areas more prone to  , they said.

 One of the project scenarios, which is being considered for execution of the project, leaves out critical area that require the water, members of the Athikadavu Kousika River Development Association said. “The new plan envisages pumping   into the Kalingarayar Canal and from there distributing it to tanks at Avinashi, Karuvallur, Annur and Kovilpalayam. However, it excludes tanks in 30% of Annur and a large part of Coimbatore district including tanks at Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai and Mettupalayam, and thus Kousika River too,” PK Selvaraj, president of the association said in a petition to the district collector.
 
 The earlier project plan was to channel surplus water from Pilloor Dam during the monsoon season to all the high and dry areas of Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode. Water from the dam was expected to be diverted through two canals at Achampalayam to fill up 40 ponds and 31 lakes maintained by the public works department. “The old plan benefited areas such as Karamadai, Mettupalayam, Annur, Avinashi, Puliampatti, Kavilipalayam, Perundurai and Nambiyur,” Selvaraj said.
 
 While the new plan would benefit Perundurai more compared to the old plan, all parts of Annur and Coimbatore district should be included, the activist said. “Annur residents have been campaigning for the project for three generations. It is a mockery to leave 30% of the area out of the scheme. All tanks in the Mettupalayam-Periyanaickenpalayam belt that were supposed to get water from the scheme are in the fag end of water supply chains and are usually dry throughout. Filling those tanks would raise the   from 1,500 ft to 50 ft,” Selvaraj said.
 
 “Also, the new plan would incur a cost about Rs 45 crore a year in electricity to the government as it needs pumping of water. The old project would cost only half, because water needs to be pumped only for 20ft, after which it mostly flows freely. As a result, it would consume only half the energy,” said Selvaraj.
 
 Athikadavu Kousika River Development Association and other groups campaigning for the scheme now demand a meeting with the Avinashi-Athikadavu committee, which includes MLAs and MPs from Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode.
 
 
