LUCKNOW: The rot runs deep as in every single raid by   at petrol pumps in the past four days, some irregularity or the other was noticed. Since April 27, special task force of   had been   who were giving vehicle owners less than value for their money using electronic devices. On Monday, seven petrol pumps were inspected and action was taken against all. 

 Since Thursday night (April 27), five different teams raided 17 filling stations altogether and anomalies were detected in each. As many as 11 pumps were seized as large scale anomalies were found in their working, while in six other places at least one dispensing unit was found rigged. At the Polytechnic crossing where four vending machines were found missing, the oil company concerned initiated disciplinary action against the manager.
 
 In all, nine FIRs have been registered so far and 26 persons including owners of five pumps have been arrested.   were conducted on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, while on Tuesday, STF prepared a dossier on action taken so far.
 
 Additional superintendent STF Arind Chaturvedi who is heading the operation said FIRs have been registered only against units in which electronic chips and remote controls were found during the raid. “In the remaining cases, weights and measurement department has initiated action and is coordinating with oil companies. A magistrate remained present during the raid apart from a representative of the oil company. We have videographed the entire process,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 The crackdown began on intervening night of Thursday and Friday with arrest of Rajendra of Barabanki district who worked for 17 years at Lalta Prasad Vaishya & Sons  , near KGMU in Chowk. Rajendra, an electrician came in contact with two persons from Kanpur yet to be traced. Rajendra confessed to supplying the chip and remote to hundreds of pump owners in the past five years. A man identified as Madhav from Delhi, believed to be the one who devised the electronic chip, remains elusive.
 
 In cases where the chip was not found, sleuths relied on tampering marks on the encrypted pulsar ID. “We found soldering marks on dispensing machines at six pumps and those machines were sealed while the pumps were functioning,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 
