Nagpur: Aspirants for B.Ed courses are still groping in the dark as Nagpur University (NU) has failed to make public the names of 52 colleges that didn't fulfil the National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE) norms despite being told to do so by the high court here in August. NCTE has asked universities to issue show cause notices to teachers’ education institutions (TEIs) failing to upload affidavit regarding infrastructure and faculty on its website. Sources said though none of BEd and MEd colleges affiliated to NU has done it, no action has been taken. NU had filed an affidavit informing the HC that 76 colleges offering MEd and BEd courses were running without required teachers and infrastructure. Later, it was found actually there were 85 such colleges. NU was also told to publish a list of such erring colleges and give it wide publicity through newspapers with a view to make students aware. Within days, NU uploaded a list of 33 disaffiliated colleges on its website but failed to publish the names of other 52 till date. Since BEd admissions are going on, some students approached TOI on Tuesday complaining about the uncertainty in case they end up taking admission in erring college. Acting vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole didn’t answer TOI’s calls. Registrar Puran Meshram said issue related to 52 teacher’s education colleges has been put up before the board of deans. Asked if students would be affected in case any adverse decision is recommended by the board, Meshram said, “Whatever action is recommended can only be implemented from next academic year.” Assistant registrar in college section Raman Madne said the decision to publish the names of 33 errant MEd and BEd colleges was taken in the academic council meeting. “I was not present in the meeting since I was on leave. I don’t know what was discussed in the meeting and why only 33 names were made public,” he said. Sources accused the NU of deliberately holding back the names despite having all details about colleges’ non-compliance. After HC directive, NU had identified 85 colleges to be violating NCTE norms. “This is contempt of court as NU misled the HC. NU had granted affiliation to 52 colleges and therefore it couldn’t disaffiliate them later. While the 33 colleges were already disaffiliated. It is an eyewash,” sources said. NU officials said the 52 colleges were spared since it would have affected students adversely. “Currently, 57 affiliating colleges are participating in the common admission process being conducted by the directorate of higher education. If 52 of them are disqualified, only five would remain. Where would the students go to study,” they asked.