CHENNAI:   looms large over the city after a failed monsoon and many apartment complexes, particulalry in the suburbs, are opting to recycle   and bathrooms.
This recycled water is used for gardening and in bathrooms. Facing depleting groundwater resources and irregular or no supply of piped water, and forced to shell out hefty sums to buy water from private tankers, residential buildings and commercial complexes in the suburbs are opting for water treatment plants.
 
 In Perumbakkam, residents of   had installed a treatment plant five years ago, but, residents welfare association president R Jagannathan said, it could only recycle 25,000 litres of waste water a day .
 
 “Around 40,000 litres of waste water are generated in our complex every day .But, as the plant's treatment capacity was below the generation, the remaining waste water was diverted to a collection tank. This led to a lot of problems with residents of neighbouring buildings as the foul smell emanating from the collection tank was unberable. Then, after the plant collapsed during the December 2015 floods, we set up a new plant which is stench free,“ he said.
 
 The new plant, set up with `40,000 pooled in by each household in the complex, can treat 40,000 litres of waste a day in four cycles. The treated water is used for gardening and there is no bad smell or noise when the plant is oper ated, he said.
 
 The chairman and managing director of a law firm on   has a different tale to tell.Five years ago, he said, there was no   in the building housing the firm and they were forced to spend `30,000 a month to buy around 20 tankers.Now, the plant is functioning smooth ly, recycling every day nearly 9,000 litres of waste water that is used in the bathrooms.
 
 Environment engineer P Kannan, who has set up plants in both the places, said five different methods were available for recycling waste water. The method used in these treatment plants is known as sequencing batch process, while most other methods were based on con tinuous batch process, he said.
 
 Explaining the process, Kannan said the waste water was collected in a tank from where it is transferred to an aeration tank. Here, an adequate quantity of air is pumped in. Soon microbes develop and consume the pollutants in the water. After about four hours, the aeration process is shut and is followed by a sedimentation process. During this time, the microbes settle at the bottom of the tank leaving crystal clear water on the top. It is ready for use in bathrooms and for gardening.
 
