Coimbatore: This Navrathri is very special for Bunty Arya from Bihar. The reason - his long cherished dream of being part of garba and   has come true. Married to a Gujarati, he has for the first time attended the celebrations organised by the Gujarati samaj.

 “I have never taken part in any Navrathri festival. I always wanted to play garba and dandiya. I am very happy to be part of this today,” he said.
 
 Arya’s wife Kajal said she had even brought her in-laws to the function. “Navrathri is our favourite festival and a Gujarati will never feel complete if s/he doesn’t dress up and play garba during Navrathri,” she said.
 
 For Heena Veer, her wrist injury didn’t stop her from participating in the celebrations. “Yes, my wrist is injured. But I will dance as long as I can with one hand. Navarathri is all about fast, puja and dance,” she said.
 
 Lukas from Germany, who is in the city as part of student exchange programme, too did not hesitate to shake a leg with his Gujarati friends. “This is my third day here,” said a beaming Lukas.
 
 Kishore Patel, vice-chairman of Navrathri festival committee at Gujarati Samaj, said they would organise a grand garba and dandiya night on October 1 and it would be open to the general public.
 
 Other communities such as Bengalis, Hindus and Rajasthanis are also celebrating the festival with great fervour in the district, this year. Vivekananda Pal of Bengali Association said, “Durga puja is an important festival for us and there are more than 60 families here. We ensure that everyone is engaged in various activities, such as fancy dress competition, drawing competition and poem reciting, for all the nine days. Durga puja will be done every afternoon. Special Bengali delicacies are prepared and served to the people free of cost.”
 
 For Hindus, Navrathri is nothing but festival of dolls. “Over the years, the idea of Kolu has evolved. More families are keeping Kolu at their homes to educate their children about the tradition and culture. The design aspect has become more thematic and organised,” said S Sarswathi, a resident of Kavundampalayam. She is known for her story-telling skills at temples during Navarathri.
 
 “Even apartment complexes, corporates, educational institutions are organising Navrathri festivities and setting up Kolu,” she said.
 
 PSG College of Technology has taken the Kolu to another level by setting up a book Kolu in their college library. 
 
 
