The day starts with a cute dance performance for the wake-up song by  , just like every other day. Raiza, who is the unofficial makeup artist in the   house puts her skill to use on Julie's face. Arav starts to have a little fun at the dining table by asking   if she has seen herself (suggesting he cannot recognise her with makeup). The other contestants join in and Namitha is seen laughing a lot, which in fact irritates Vaiyapuri. Later in the day, the housemates discuss keeping the restrooms clean.
 
  
 In the afternoon, another task as a part of the luxury budget shopping task is given to the contestants. In this, each housemate is given a tongue twister in Tamil which they have to repeat correctly later in the day after practising. During the classroom session where Snehan gives each contestant the tongue twister, Julie and others are seen disturbing the class.
  
  
 All the housemates are seen diligently practising the tongue twisters, but Oviya is her usual self entertaining the audience even while doing the practice. She seems to be the only one enjoying herself in the Bigg Boss house and at the same time making it interesting for the audience.
  
  
  and   are always ready to pounce on Julie at the slightest chance they get. If not, they create the chances themselves. While they are all resting, Harathi starts the conversation with Julie asking her what does she miss being in the Bigg Boss house. When Julie responds she misses the hospital, Harathi hits back asking why does she miss it when she has left the job and come. Gayathri joins the conversation when Julie says she likes to be a video jockey, but hasn't taken any efforts for the same. Harathi adds that Julie is in the show for 100 days to become a VJ.
  
  
 When questioned about why she came into the show, Julie replies that she has come to win and buy a house for her parents with the prize money. Confirming that they are targeting Julie for no reason at all, Harathi hits back with a stupid question asking whether she can't buy a house working as a nurse. Gayathri questions why she wouldn't build a hospital or a nursing school with the prize money. It is clearly evident that both Harathi and Gayathri totally dislike Julie and we could probably say they are threatened by her presence in the show.
  
  
 Harathi has always been sarcastic with Julie and she continues to be. She ask Julie if she will be in the Bigg Boss house for 100 days and questions her as to what gives her the confidence. During the conversation, just like every other day, she calls Julie fake and accuses that she is acting in the show. This constant sarcasm from Harathi and Gayathri puts off Julie and she keeps quiet, again for which they troll her saying she is angry.
  
  
 Harathi's attack on Julie continues to the dining table as well, even when Julie is still in the bedroom. While everyone is having their lunch, Julie is seen crying in her bed. Harathi makes a sarcastic comment saying that everyone would want to cry without anyone seeing, but Julie is turning towards the camera and then starts crying. Haven't most of the contestant who have cried in the Bigg Boss house been captured on camera?
  
  
 Oviya tries to convince Gayathri to neutralise the situation as Julie is seen upset and crying. Later, she also takes efforts to help Julie, sitting near the gym, to not get emotional about things that she doesn't like. She advises her that she should try to convey to the other person that what they talk is hurting her and request them to stop doing so, instead of crying.
  
  
 Trying to cool herself down, Julie sings for Oviya who dances for the song. Even for this, Harathi who saw this, sarcastically comments to the housemates that Julie is crying uncontrollably and then reveals she is happily singing.
  
  
 Things worsens when Julie says she is upset with Harathi, when Gayathri asks about her problem. Harathi jumps in again, but this time not sarcastically, but with anger. She keeps shooting questions at Julie and corners her with whatever she replies. She goes to the extent of shouting back that she didn't ask Julie to quit her nurse job (as if Julie had said that), when Julie had just mentioned that she didn't like Harathi going on talking about she leaving her job. She finally leaves the room and goes out and talks to the Bigg Boss saying she wants to go home.
  
  
 The issue is finally sorted out somehow, but the tension between Julie and Harathi seems to remain. Later in the evening, the luxury task takes place where the contestants recite their tongue twisters. Finally, Ganja Karupu has some fun making Ganesh Venkatram do a scene from 'Paruthiveeran' movie. Shakthi, Snehan, Vaiyapuri and Raiza also enjoy the scene and have fun. Meanwhile, Arav enacts how Ganesh did the scene with Oviya in the garden area and makes them laugh. They later also have a discussion about Oviya's relationship.
  
  
 Will the next day be a fresh day for Julie? Will Bharani start talking properly? We will have to wait and see!
 
