NEW DELHI: After a good debut season in 2016, in which   topped the league table before bowing out in the qualifiers, expectations from the Intex-owned franchise were high in the their second, and possibly last season. However, they failed to meet those expectations and ended at seventh position in   2017. 

 Decked with big-hitters at the top of the order, GL went in to the season with one of the weakest bowling units in the tournament and they suffered heavily in defending totals. Add to that the injury woes that ruled out charismatic allrounder   entirely and sidelined   and   for the early part of the season, and Gujarat failed to provide any kind of threat to their opposition. They never got themselves in a position to stake claim for a play-off spot throughout the season.
  
 
 P 14 W 4 L 10 NR -0.412 Points 8
  
 
 
  
 It is tough to find a high point for a team that only managed to win four games out 14, but in Match 23 - GL's sixth game - the top order fired in unison and overhauled a target of 187 with 14 deliveries remaining against a strong Kolkata Knight Riders bowling attack.  , who had struggled down the order in the previous games, looked comfortable opening the innings and scored a quick-fire 15-ball 31 and aided by a 17-ball 33 from   the team reached 71/1 in the Powerplay. Skipper   then took centerstage and played one of his best IPL innings, taking Gujarat home with a 46-ball 86.
  
 
 
  
 Gujarat's low point came in their first match when they failed to defend a 183, allowing KKR to chase down the target with more than five overs remaining and with ten wickets in hand. In the following game, Gujarat managed 135 and put up no fight with the bowl as Sunrisers Hyderabad mowed down the target for the loss of one wicket and with a whopping 27 deliveries to spare. These two matches were a precursor to what was to follow for Gujarat as they failed to notch up a single victory while batting first, further highlighting the weak bowling attack the team possessed. Against Delhi Daredevils, they scored 208/7 and 195/5 batting first, yet ended up on the losing side on both occasions.
  
 
 
  
 Raina was the highest run-getter with 442 runs in 14 matches at an average of 40.18, but unlike the previous season, Raina the captain failed - partly owing to the team he had at his disposal and the lack of stability throughout the tournament. An over-dependency on overseas batsmen proved costly and Raina admitted on air that he was not confident of defending totals with the bowling attack he had. An under-pressure Raina seemed to run out of ideas when it came to bowling.
  
 
 
  
 Australian pacer Andrew Tye made an immediate impact after getting his debut game in Gujarat's third match with a hat-trick to helped his team to their first victory. Tye featured in five more games before dislocating his shoulder against Mumbai Indians (the match they lost in the Super-Over). Tye scalped 12 wickets at an average of 11.75 and miserly economy of 6.71 runs per over before his good run ended abruptly.
  
 
 
  
 Coming off after a long home season, Jadeja was rested for the first two games, but his inclusion in the XI for the remaining 12 matches made little difference. Enduring one of his worst IPL seasons, Jadeja's lack of form with the ball and bat become one of the major reasons for Gujarat's lackluster campaign. In 12 matches, the No 1 Test bowler could only manage five wickets and gave away runs at an economy of 9.18. With the bat, Jadeja made 158 runs at a decent average of 39.50 but failed to make any substantial contribution.
  
 
 
  
 It was a disappointing campaign one could see coming right from the start. From a management point of view, not building a balanced team was the first blow for Gujarat and despite finding good domestic talents in Basil Thampi and Ishan Kishan, the franchise were always one step behind. Not able to find the right combination with their foreign recruits and one point having only four overseas players to choose from the squad after injuries to Tye and McCullum was a big blow for their strategy of pinning their hopes on the overseas talents. The likes Praveen Kumar, Munaf Patel, Manpreet Gony and Irfan Pathan added only to the nostalgia factor of the IPL.
 
