NASHIK: The state government last week announced that the   (SMC) of every   will be allowed to use Rs 10,000 for   in case of emergency. Headmasters however are   for the same.

 According to the decision, the state announced that in case of a health emergency among tribal students in government-run or aided ashram schools, funds with the SMC or ‘shaley vyavasthapan samiti’ should be used and the same can be reimbursed.
 
 The SMCs are headed by a villager and the headmaster is the member secretary. The state has provided a Rs 1 lakh fund to every samiti which will use the funds for the school’s development.
 
 “In case of emergency, when a student gets medical attention, headmasters can withdraw Rs 10,000 at the most and spend the same to get it reimbursed after that. This will ensure that students facing snake bites, viral infection etc. are not forced to be confined to the school for want of some arrangement to take them to the hospital,” an officer from the tribal development department, said.
 
 The headmasters in the state-run and aided ashramshalas, however, are unsure about the move given their previous experience with reimbursements. 
 
 “Why are we only getting Rs 10,000? Why not a larger amount? What about the checks on SMC if funds are not reimbursed? The decision is very good, but unfortunately the mode of implementation is very bad. It is easier to spend Rs 50,000 from our own pockets to treat a child at the ashramshala rather than to fight for a sum of Rs 10,000 for years and be humiliated before the tribal development department offices and at SMC meetings,” a senior headmaster, said. 
 
 Another headmaster from the Dhule district said that once at 1am two children were found shivering with fever at his ashramshala. He had to book a taxi which charged double the regular fair at Rs 1,100 to reach the civil hospital. “When I presented the bills, I was questioned as to why I spent Rs 600 on a taxi. I finally chose on not opting for the reimbursement,” the headmaster said.
 
