Visakhapatnam:   is one of the few campuses in the country that still has buildings with colonial and art-deco style of architecture, vice-chancellor   said and added that he is keen on preserving this architecture in the campus. 

 The VC told TOI that other than Kolkata and Chennai, Vizag is the only city on the entire east coast which is still considered a treasure trove of both architectural traditions. He further added that AU is home to some of the best Art-Deco and colonial structures in the city. 
 
 While Vizag has a strong association with colonial rchitecture, especially British and Dutch colonial styles (high ceilings, tall arches, huge door space and airy rooms), the association with art-deco was only after World War-II. The art-deco style according to architect K Ramani evolved in France just before World War-I. “It incorporated elements of geometric cubism and was also influenced by the architecture of ancient Egypt,” he said. The architect further added that art-deco used geometric cubism to inflate real space or in simple terms make more room within. 
 
 Prof Rao said he along with other senior officials are mulling a plan to help promote these two styles of architecture to ensure symmetry across the university.
 
 Prof Rao said the styles have some what defined the physical structure of the campus. “The Physics College is an exemplary example of colonial architecture while the Engineering College blocks and Vizianagaram Palace building are examples of Art-Deco architecture and are probably among the largest such structures built on the east coast during the 1930-1960 period,” he added. 
 
 AU registrar Prof V Uma Maheswara Rao said the management aims to promote the university as a hub of these two styles by promoting these architectural marvels and providing them adequate protection. The authorities, however, pointed out that they would work out the modalities by the beginning of 2017-18 academic year to push this project. 
 
 An AU official observed that such a project will also help protect the university’s landed property, which is being gradually taken over by encroachers.
 
 The Physics College is an exemplary example of colonial architecture while the Engineering College blocks and Vizianagaram Palace building are examples of Art-Deco architecture and are probably among the largest such structures built on the east coast during the 1930-1960
 
 
