 RUDRAPUR: The electorates in the Rudrapur assembly constituency in   district will be able to verify whether they have cast vote correctly to the candidate or party of their choice or not, with the administration is gearing up to install voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) along with electronic voting machines (EVMs) at all polling booths across the constituency for the first time ever.
  
  District Magistrate-cum-district electoral officer (DEO) Chandresh Yadav said, “Following the directions of the   (EC), VVPAT will be used along with the EVMs at all the 182 polling booths in Rudrapur constituency at the district headquarters for the first time.”
  
  The EC is installing VVPAT in various constituencies in Uttar Pradesh and four other poll bound-sates in phased-manner after the  , hearing a petition filed by   leader  , directed the former to install such a device to ensure 100% transparency in elections.
  
  The DEO told TOI that there are, in all, 1,318 polling booths in the district — 407 in urban and 911 in rural areas.
  
  “The filing of nominations will take place from January 20-27, while the date of withdrawal is February 1 and the polling will be held on February 15,” said Yadav.
  
  “Out of the total 11,20,518 voters in the district, 5,94,063 are male and 5,26,455 female and we have 2,210 balloting units for them. There are 5,065 service voters in the district, who will cast their postal ballets,” said the DEO.
  
  As many as 30 nodal officers and 21 assistant nodal officers have been deputed across the district for strict enforcement of the model code of conduct.
  
  “The district administration has been organising awareness programmes to educate voters under the Sweep proggrame so that maximum number of voters could exercise their franchise,” Yadav said.
  
  “Besides, we are keeping a tight watch on all publicity done by different political parties under the Public Property Distortion Act. All sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs), municipal corporation, municipality and nagar panchayat officials have been ordered to remove all such hoardings that may influence voters. A control room has been set up at the district headquarters and any information regarding elections can be delivered at toll free numbers — 05944-250719, 1077 and 1950. CCTV cameras have been installed at all domestic and foreign liquor shops in the district, and have been asked to maintain daily sale record,” told Yadav.
  
  Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Abudeyi K S said, “All polling booths in the district have been thoroughly checked by police officials, and we have identified locations on the Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh border to install check posts. Circle officers from both the states will be working in tandem at these posts. In addition, we have sought adequate paramilitary forces from the EC.”
