NAGPUR: The   (ED) is   of   of a range of goods, that have taken place in the city and other centres of the region. This is to ascertain whether the goods had actually changed hands or the money was merely transferred through such transactions.

 There are suspicions that foreign exchange was transferred or brought in, under the garb of exim deals. The deals have taken place in a single private bank which is also under scanner, said sources in the ED, who preferred not to disclose the bank’s name. The investigations are continuing since more than last six months. Each individual concerned is being asked to submit the papers such as invoices and customs documents to prove that their exim transactions were genuine.
 
 In some of the cases, the parties have not responded to the ED’s query, which is leading to the delay in concluding the probe. However, the agency will now be taking a strict stance against such persons, said a source.
 
 In Hawala trade, as it is called in business jargon, money is transferred in and out the country in such deals under the guise of imports or exports. There is no movement of goods but the funds are transferred using a bank channel. The connivance of bank officials is also needed in the racket, said a source.
 
 In this case, the products include machinery, scrap, steel, rice apart from a number of other items, said source. 
 
 The investigation has begun on the basis of list supplied by ministry of finance and is a part of a nation wide exercise. The local offices are scanning each and every suspect case. The transactions are around four years old. The current action comes after a Rs6,500 crore forex transfer that came to fore in   in 2015.
 
 In some of the cases, the concerned businessmen have taken a plea since the transactions are old and the papers have not been preserved. However, papers for at least 3-4 years old deals are expected to be preserved by the business firms, said sources.
 
 Post demonetization, entities like cooperative banks and societies have also come under ED’s scanner. The agency also recently attached the assets of two companies involved in the coal block allocation scheme. 
 
