In mid 2016, the transgender community in Kochi was in the news for all the wrong reasons. While two transgenders were beaten up by the police in one incident, in a separate one, another group was thrashed and locked up by the Ernakulam North police. While the police and transgenders blamed each other, these incidents had a positive outcome – their sad state of affairs came to the limelight; that they often had to resort to sex work to make a living. The same week, the   authorities announced that in collaboration with the  , the Metro would be providing employment for transgenders, a way of making amends for the cruelty meted out to them.

 Today, 23 transgenders are all set to join work at the Kochi Metro as soon as it is inaugurated, and they couldn’t be happier. “Finally, the public will learn to see us as respectable people going to work, rather than as sex workers,” says Vincy Antony, who will be working as a ticketing staff.
 Out of the 23, five, who are degree holders will be working at the ticket counters, while the rest will be part of the housekeeping staff. They range in age from an 18-year-old Sherin to 62-year-old Shanti, and will be working in three eight-hour shifts.
 
 The job is a great leap for them, they say, as most of them used to work as street dancers and beggars in spite of their education. A few also did sex work to make ends meet.
 
 Those employed were provided with one-month training in April at the Rajagiri College, where they were taught communication and soft skills, etiquette and more. “We were apprehensive about working in a public space when we started the training but we are no longer scared. The students of the college treated us as one among them, and that gave us confidence,” says Sherin.
 
 And the metro authorities are leaving no stone unturned to make the transgender staff comfortable. Separate bathrooms will be provided, and they will be allowed to conceal their gender identity, if required. For instance, if a male to female transgender wants to present herself as a male fearing friends and relatives, she will be given a man’s uniform. We speak to a few of them, who are all excited and apprehensive at the same time about engaging with the public on such a platform for the first time:
 
 
 
 The Kochi Metro is the first government authority to provide jobs for us and we consider it a great victory. We don’t have to hide who we are because they have employed us knowing our gender identity. They have accepted us and we will be working for a living, like any man or woman. Right now, the public view us all as sex workers. We hope this will win us acceptance from them as well, and also at home. For the majority of the 23 of us, the families know we are transgenders. But a few like me still hide it. A metro station means we will come across friends and relatives. But the authorities have assured us that we can wear a man’s uniform if needed, and hide our female identity.
 
 In the event of anyone making fun of us, we have been told to make them understand with patience. We have been given training not to react rashly. People should understand that only those who are starved and have been kicked out of their family will go for sex work. If more companies throw open their doors for transgenders, the community need not go for sex work anymore.
 
 
 
 I had completed my hotel management and used to work as GM in a star hotel, but I lost my job after they found out that I am a transgender. This is the first time I’m entering a job in my gender identity. I will be working in ticket counter so I’m glad I found something to do with front desk. I have no apprehensions whatsoever regarding the work. Also, I’m ready to deal with any insults we might face; that is something we face every moment of our lives. 
  
 At home they are okay with my gender identity. My only problem now is accommodation in Kochi. For the past three years I have been living with my partner but we have never been able to live in one place for more than three months.
 
 I will never be able to get back to the hotel industry as one’s personality matters a lot there. I will be happy to continue at the Metro, in my own identity, and am hoping that I will soon be promoted to a better position. There are plenty of us who are educated like me, but there are zero career options for us. 
 
 
 
 I’m yet to tell my family that I’m a transgender. I plan to let them know once I start working in the Kochi Metro. We are all excited as we are finally stepping into the mainstream. I will be working in the ticketing section as I have completed my degree. Actually many of us can speak English and Hindi well but are not qualified enough for customer service jobs. I used to take part in temple and road shows. A lot of us also do make up in films and for weddings.
 At the Kochi Metro, we will be paid `14,500 besides which there are benefits like PF and ESI. Our only worry now is getting accommodation. Once we enter the job, we hope we will find it easier.
 
 We are prepared for bad behaviour at the ticket counters. It is probably those who don’t know much about transgenders, who stare at us or try to touch us. A gender identity education officer present in every station will come to our rescue if they create trouble for us. So we are not scared. But it’s not that I’m completely free of fears, I don’t know how my family will take my revelation… what if I come across my classmates at the ticket counter…. But it’s a proper job after all, I won’t be a sex worker or a beggar.
 
 
 
 My life was hell till now. I’m just 18 but I stopped studying long ago as I was mocked at by my peers. So I used to beg in trains and dance in temple stage shows. I dress as a woman, grow my hair long and have pierced ears. But at the hotel I used to work as a housekeeping staff, they kicked me out saying I can’t look like a woman. That’s how I ended up as a beggar. Finally I have a job and I’m thankful to everyone who made it happen. I will be working in the house-keeping department since I don’t have a degree but it doesn’t matter. I want to go to work like everyone else and talk to people with self-respect. And above all, we want to do away with the perception that all transgenders are sex workers. 
  
 At my home, my brother and mom support my gender identity. They are delighted I got a job. So I will be dressing as a woman, as I don’t need to hide my identity from anyone. We consider this a beginning. We will be moving ahead step by step and collaborating with the Kudumbashree to find self-employment schemes for ourselves.
