THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Transport minister Thomas Chady informed the assembly on Thursday that the salary for KSRTC employees would be disbursed in two days. One month's pending pension would also be distributed along with the salary for the month of April, he said.

 Replying to a submission by P T Thomas MLA, the minister said three months' pensions were pending. “Talks are on with financial institutions for sourcing loan to address the financial crisis,“ he said. However, the minister's assurance failed to have any impact on a section of pensioners who said they will lay siege to the KSRTC head office at  , in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. The pensioners under the banner KSRTC Pensioners Organisation have been holding a protest from April 20 in front of the secretariat demanding timely payment of pension.
 
 As their protest crossed fifteen days on Thursday, the KSRTC pensioner have decided to strengthen the agitation. “We have not received any positive response from minister and KSRTC management during these days. Around 40,000 pensioners will participate in the protest on Tuesday,“ said P A  , general secretary of KSRTC Pensioners Organisation. The group of elders, who worked as assistant transport officers, conductors and drivers had been protesting in front of the secretariat in the morning hours. Due to the summer heat and health relat ed ailments, they concluded their protest by noon hours.
 
 “More than forty thousand families are depended on the pension amount and have to seek financial support from children due to the delay in grant of pension. It is been three months that I have received any pension,“ said Ashok Kumar, a retired ATO.
 
 69 employees supended
 
 Meanwhile, the corporation suspended 69 of its employees for continuing their strike. On Tuesday, the employees' unions led by the INTUC and the   had called off their strike following a discussion with the transport minister. However, a group of employees, who do not belong to INTUC and CITU, continued their strike and did not turn up for duty on Wednesday morning.
 
 “All those who failed to turn up for duty on Wednesday were suspended,“ said an official. According to officials, 24 employees from   depot, 12 from Kozhikode depot, 27 from regional workshop and 6 from   depot were suspended for not turning up for duty.
 
