THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former chief secretary   said that the state has a lot of positive aspects that can boost the acceptance of the proposed accountability bill. 

 Highlighting the need for social auditing in various governmental institutions, Vijayanand said the development of a state is not just about providing basic infrastructure facilities for its people but ensuring the basic rights for them.
 
  "The accountability bill should strive to provide respect for the common people in offices," Vijayanand said while taking part in a debate on proposed Accountability Act organized by the Kerala chapter of the National Council for People's Right to Information ( ).
 
 He said the implementation of accountability provisions as envisaged by the bill should start from the panchayat level as there is a common notion that panchayat authorities are corrupt.
 
 The provisions of accountability bill were presented by social activists Nikhil Dey and Rakshitha Swamy of Mazdoor Kishan Shakti Sangthan (MKSS).
 
 Nikhil Dey said the accountability bill can be considered as an extension to the   Act. 
 
 "The system needs to be improved with regard to implementation of the Act. The accountability bill will remove the power from officers and give it to the public. If RTI Act calls for transparency, the Accontability Act calls for responsibility," said Dey.
 
 The framework of the accountability bill is based on the   principles put forward by dalit youths in Bilwade. It emphasizes the need to access relevant information, right to hearing, guaranteed action, whistleblower protection and the role of social audit/public audit. 
 
 According to the accountability bill, the grievance redressal officer (GRO) will be responsible for providing information.
 
 CPI national leader   said that she is 90% satisfied with the accountability bill, the aim of which is to make the authorities accountable. 
 
 "RTI is a strong weapon in the hands of the common people and the accountability bill will strengthen the missing aspects of RTI. In this digital age, a social media campaign will be beneficial to encourage the participation of youth and students in this move to ensure transparency and accountability. A broad discussion should be conducted in schools, colleges, universities and in social media to make the younger generation aware of the need to implement Accountability Act," said Annie Raja.
 
 Former DGP M N Krishnamoorthy, Abey George, state convener, National Campaign for People's RTI, Puthusseri Sreenivasan and   also spoke. 
 
