For 57-year-old businessman-actor  , it’s been an upward growth from   to   to movies now. His upcoming film, titled Ashen Zalen Kashen (how did this happen), is a mix of Konkani and Tulu languages. In the film, Jeevan plays the role of an assistant to an underworld don. Mangalore Times recently had a conversation with Jeevan. Excerpts:
You were into theatre in your earlier days. Your passion for cricket is also well known. What have you been doing before you made a comeback to acting?
 After doing my Masters in Social Work, I worked for a brief period in Bengaluru. But my interest to grow up in life as a businessman was deep-rooted. I started my own beauty parlour, dealt with timber, worked as a master of ceremonies as well as a toast master. Right from my high school days, I have been a cricket player playing underarm cricket in most of the teams as well as in my own team named ‘Brothers-Kulshekar’. I have won trophies as best batsman, best bowler, man of the match and man of the series in open tournaments. Our team secured the first place for 10 consecutive years.
 What are the well-received plays and serials that you have acted in?
 I have acted in plays such as Devache Upades (God’s commandments), Hanv Moronk Na (I am alive), Somaiso Paschavn (passion of Christ), Modan Rathichi Kunhi (Murder at Midnight), while my recent works that has been appreciated by the audience include the Biblical play Thun Vortho Daniya (you are great Lord). The TV serials that I have been part of are Ajane (fear) and Hi Vat Sargachi Nain (this is not the road to heaven).
 What made you come back from your sabbatical from acting?
 In between when TV was gaining popularity, the response of the people towards dramas went down and automatically the enthusiasm and spirit of the writers, directors and actors was choked. But then came a time again when public started getting bored with movies and serials. Now is the time for small theatre. However, my footing in dramas paved the way for my dream to come to reality to be on TV and on the big screen. 
 
 - Muriel Nirmala D’Silva 
 
