MEERUT: Hoping to repeat the BJP’s unprecedented performance in the 2014 general election, when UP gave 73 seats to the NDA,   touched an emotional chord at his first Vijay Shankhnaad Rally in the state.

 "UP made me the PM in 2014 and I have a debt to pay to it. But no matter what I do the benefit does not reach the downtrodden because all the money and schemes I send to UP gets stuck in Lucknow,” he said.
 
 Attacking the SP-Congress combine, the PM said, “Until a month ago, the Congress was attacking SP on all fronts. But what happened overnight that these sworn political enemies are now locked in a friendly embrace? Those who cannot save themselves, how will they save UP?”
 
 Modi also attacked the opposition over surgical strikes. “There is a government at the Centre who knows how to live and die for our soldiers who are protecting our borders. There was a time when the enemy used to sneak into our territory at night and kill our soldiers. Our soldiers could not retaliate even armed with weapons because they never had permission. We gave a befitting reply to Pakistan through surgical strikes and look at our leaders who question the authenticity of those strikes. They are doing politics over our soldiers.” 
 
 Significantly, Modi said that while people faced incovenience after demonetisation, now it was the hoarders of black money and the corrupt who were facing trouble. “On November 8, those who had been hoarding black money were compelled to deposit it in banks. Now they are in trouble because their money is stuck in banks. I will continue my fight and will not allow the corrupt to live in peace.” The PM also had sops for farmers reeling under demonetisation and unpaid sugarcane dues.
 
 “BJP leaders in UP have promised that if we come to power, we will waive the loans of the farmers. I will monitor the development from Delhi. I had announced from this very ground in 2014 that after coming to power I will take the matter of unpaid sugarcane dues to farmers. We put money directly into the accounts of 32 lakh farmers and cleared 99% of the payment after releasing Rs 22,000 crore,” he said.
 
 
