BENGALURU: It's not raining enough in Agumbe, the   of southern India. Wells and ponds in the region are now running dry, with groundwater levels having plummeted to alarming levels. With its verdant forests intersected by gurgling streams, Agumbe, a small village in Shivamogga district, still retains some of its pastoral charm. However, successive droughts have had a telling impact on Agumbe. On average, the annual rainfall recorded in   is around 7,000 to 8,000mm, the second highest in the country -Mawsynram in Meghalaya, which dislodged Cherrapunji from the top, being the first. Agumbe recorded its highest ever annual rainfall in 1962 -11,345.5mm.

 In 2016, Agumbe received just 5,987.4mm rainfall, the lowest in 45 years. Consequently, wells, including the traditional structures built within homes, have dried up. Ravikumar, a resident of Agumbe who runs a homestay , said, "Many of us are not encouraging tourists. When there is hardly enough water for our domestic needs, how can we entertain guests and travellers?" B Vaman Shenoy , a meteorologist who has been living in Agumbe for the past four decades, expressed concern over the dire condition.
 
 “I have been noticing the changes in the weather in Agumbe. Days in the summer are longer and winters are shorter. Since the early 1990s, average rainfall here has been steadily decreasing from 8,000 to 5,000mm,“ said Shenoy , who has kept records of rainfall in Agumbe since 1962. DNagabhushan, a farmer in Agumbe, said he was forced to cancel a religious ceremony owing to water shortage.“In the cities, there is always the option of water tankers. But there are no such facilities here. My relatives too have had to call off ceremonies because of the water problem in Agumbe,“ he added.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 That wells and ponds in Agumbe are running dry and groundwater levels sharply falling owing to little rain in the recent years is a cause for concern. The noticeable change in weather -summer days getting longer and winters shorter -is a factor leading to the village witnessing successive droughts. Once called the Cherrapunji of southern India, Agumbe, situated in the dense Malnad region, is facing an unprecedented water problem, a warning bell that the Western Ghats is gradually losing its green cover. It's time the villagers started conserving water and the state begins reforestation before the situation gets out of hand.
 
 SHANKAR NAG'S  
 
 For those who grew up on Shankar Nag's seminal television series Malgudi Days in the 1980s, the sense of familiarity that the sight of Agumbe's streets and its quaint houses stir is hard to escape. It was in this sleepy village in the backwaters of Karnataka that Shankar recreated R K Narayan's fictitious Malgudi. For an entire generation of Indian television buffs, Malgudi and Agumbe were inseparable in the collective imagination. The sunset point at Agumbe is a major tourist attraction, and has been featured in a number of Kannada movies, one of the most memorable being the Rajkumar-starrer Akasmika, directed by T S Nagabharana. The song Agumbeya Prema Sanjeya penned by Hamsalekha is an ode to the beauty and tranquillity of the village.
 
 ABOUT CHERRAPUNJI
 
 Although Meghalaya's Mawsynram dislodged Cherrapunji from the pedestal of being the world's wettest place, Cherrapunji still holds the record for the highest annual rainfall recorded -in 1974, Cherrapunji received 24,555.3mm rainfall. Average annual rainfall at Cherrapunji is 11,754mm.
 
