MUMBAI: In a setback to Mumbai’s  ,   on Thursday refused to lift its year-old ban on  . A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Chandrakant Bhadang dismissed a petition, saying there was no case made out for a review of its February 2016 order. The court had put an embargo on new   projects, excluding redevelopment and slum rehabilitation schemes, after BMC failed to comply with orders that required it to make its dumping grounds compliant with pollution norms. The bench reiterated that “the right to live in a pollution-free environment” was a fundamental right under the Constitution of India. “We will protect and enforce the rights of citizens,” the judges said. 

 In February 2016, when the HC imposed the ban, over 1,000 metric tonnes of garbage, including around 1,000 metric tonnes of construction debris were being dumped at the Deonar, Mulund and Kanjurmarg dumping grounds. Only the Kanjurmarg ground had facilities to process around 3,000 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste as per the Municipal Solid Waste Rules of 2000. The court had extended the deadline for BMC to make its waste disposal and processing facilities as per pollution norms to June 2017. 
 
 BMC, while supporting the case of Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry ( ) for a review, had said that Mumbai generates around 8,640 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste. In addition, around 1,000 metric tonnes of construction and demolition debris are dumped at designated spots, including at infrastructure projects like the new Navi Mumbai airport site. The HC pointed out that Kanjurmarg, with 3,000 metric tonnes capacity, was the only dumping ground still complying with MSW rules, which meant that even if the corporation’s new figures were correct, over 5,600 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste were still being dumped daily in violation of norms. The court cited BMC’s affidavit, which revealed that plans to set up two new dumping grounds were in limbo, the proposal at Airoli was caught in a dispute with the salt pan department, which owns the land, while there was no progress for the site at Taloja due to encroachments. The court said it saw no hope that BMC will be able to comply with its orders in the near future. 
 
 MCHI contended that the new MSW rules enacted in April 2016, gave the authorities more time to implement pollution control measures at its waste disposal facilities. The bench pointed out that the corporation had not only failed to comply with the rules before the initial deadline of 2003, it had still not adhered to the 2013 orders of the high court. The court also scoffed at the argument that slum-dwellers and poor people were affected because of the ban order as builders were unable to implement projects in the suburbs that comprised of flats priced at Rs 2 lakh. The judges pointed to the ready reckoner rates of the suburbs. 
 
 
