BATHINDA: Sitting Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Gurtej Singh Ghuriana from Balluana assembly in district Fazilka after a wait of nearly one month on Friday joined Congress in the presence of   president Captain Amarinder Singh. The three-time MLA Ghuriana had revolted against Akali Dal on December 7, 2015, after he was denied ticket from Balluana. But he had taken a U-turn only four days later and had shared stage with SAD president   on December 1 at the inauguration of  . Now, when SAD failed to field him from Malout assembly constituency, and fielded another sitting MLA Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Malout, Ghuriana on Friday resigned from Akali Dal and joined Congress.

 Ghuriana (65) had won on SAD ticket in 1997, 2007, and 2012 from Balluana assembly constituency, and had lost to Parkash Singh Bhatti in 2002. “After I had raised my voice against denial of ticket from Balluana on December 7, party president Sukhbir Badal had called me and had assured to field me from Malout. Under this assurance, I had attended the Bathinda airport inauguration, but now when the party failed to fulfil its promise and fielded another person from Malout, I preferred to join Congress,” Ghuriana told TOI over phone. He said he had joined Congress unconditionally and had not demanded a ticket.
 
 Ghuriana said: “Though my supporters wanted me to contest as an independent candidate, I preferred to go with Congress, which is the future of Punjab.” Earlier, sitting SAD MLAs Sarwan Singh Phillaur, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Avinash Chander, Maheshinder Singh, Nihal Singh Wala, and Rajwinder Kaur had resigned from SAD, and except Avinash Chander, the other MLAs have already joined Congress. Ghuriana further said: “I had won three times, and twice continuously in 2007 and 2012, so I fail to understand on what ground I have been denied the ticket. The party will have to pay the price for it.” Congress Abohar MLA Sunil Jakhar said: “With Ghuriana joining Congress, the party will gain strength in Fazilka district. Congress will suitably adjust him upon forming the government.” 
 
