CHANDIGARH: A murder convict, out on bail, was killed and his cousin was injured as two motorcycle-borne men opened fire on them at the busy Shivpuri Chowk area of   on Wednesday morning.

 The victim   (36) died on the spot while his cousin Jasbir Singh was injured and was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Police have started investigations after registering a case of murder and attempt to murder at   police station.
 
 Rakesh was convicted in a murder case and had served seven years in jail before being released on bail in March this year. After release from jail, Rajesh was looking after his business of cable TV and electronics in Panipat.
 
 According to information, accompanied by his cousin Jagbir and servant Sunny, Rakesh had just left home for his shop in a Mahindra Scorpio SUV. Rakesh was in the driver’s seat. As they reached near  , the bikers came near them.
 
 They first broke the window with the firearm before firing at Rajesh and his associates. With four bullet injuries, including two in his head and one each in his hand and back, Rajesh was killed on the spot.
 
 As he was hit by bullets, his vehicle also got out of control and hit a cyclist identified as Ram Mehar who was injured. He was also rushed to the hospital.
 
 Soon after the incident, Panipat City station house officer (SHO), ballistic experts and scene-of-crime teams were rushed to the spot. The teams collected the empty shells of bullets from the spot, which were sent to the forensic laboratory to ascertain the make and bore of the weapon used in the crime.
 
 Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma said prima facie the shoot out appeared to be the outcome of a gangwar or an old rivalry. “We have picked the CCTV footage from the showrooms near the place of crime. We will be able to zero in on the suspects by verifying certain things. Crime teams are on the job. Our priority is to ensure that the family performs the last rites so that we can ask them to join the investigations,” he said.
 
