COIMBATORE/CHENNAI: Additional director-general of police A K Viswanathan, who is set to assume charge as 104th commissioner of   city is a third   officer. While his grandfather R Perumal joined as a constable and retired as head constable in 1968, his father P Aiyasamy joined as a sub-inspector and retired as superintendent of police.

 Known as a smooth operator having hands-on experience in almost all nuances of policing, Viswanathan has had hard field postings such as additional commissioner of police in Chennai when the infamous police-advocate clash took place on Madras high court campus on February 19, 2009, commissioner of police in Coimbatore city for about three-and-a-half years and long stint in the Central Bureau of Investigation.
 
 Viswanathan, who is on a tour to the US when the news of his new assignment became public, told TOI that he would return in a day or two and assume charge in Chennai. City police sources said his main focus would be on crime prevention aspects. “Since he had held key posts in the intelligence wing, he has wide knowledge on all aspects pertaining to statewide issues,” a senior officer told TOI.
 
 The 1990 batch IPS officer who hails from Erode was posted first as assistant superintendent of police at Dharmapuri and later he served as superintendent of police in Madurai between 1995 and 1998. He was with the special branch of state police from 1998 to 2001. Then he went to the CBI on deputation as superintendent of police and later promoted deputy inspector-general in the central agency. On his repatriation to state cadre, Viswanathan served as DIG intelligence from 2006 to 2008 before becoming additional commissioner of police, Chennai city. It was when he was additional commissioner of police that the high court clashes took place. In the ensuing contempt proceedings, the court ordered the suspension of three IPS officers – the then commissioner of police K Radhakrishnan, A K Viswanathan and M Ramasubramani. The matter then went to the Supreme Court where it is still pending.
 
 On April 24, 2012, he took charge as commissioner of police in Coimbatore and served for three years and five months in the textile city. Viswanathan was promoted as ADGP on November 16, 2015. He has completed master of law and received police medal for meritorious service in 2007.
 
 His wife Seema Agarwal is also a 1990 batch IPS officer, currently serving as additional director-general of police, State Crime Records Bureau.
 
 Viswanathan is now succeeding   who was appointed commissioner by the election commission of India on March 25, days ahead of the now-cancelled   bypoll. In less than two months of his posting, Singha has been transferred and posted member of   Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB).
 
 
