KOLKATA: The sweets that Bikash da sells are lumps of sugar twirled into plastic wrapping. The crumbled biscuits in glass jars have been colonised by ants. His shack just opposite gate number 4 of   turns into the favourite haunt of people who try to understand which way the political wind is blowing on campus. On Wednesday, the topic of conversation was how a member of the LGBTQI community is contesting the student body elections in the state.

 Asmita Sarkar, a second-year student of the sociology department and vice-president of All India Students’ Association’s (AISA) Jadavpur unit, is the first out-of-closet lesbian to contest the students’ union election in the long history of the university.
 
 “I’m not contesting just because I belong to the LGBTQI community,” said Asmita, but added: “That doesn’t mean that belonging to the LGBTQI community doesn’t bring a certain perspective.”
 
 “There is no colour or creed of oppression. It is similar in all cases — may it be minorities, women, the physically disabled or the members of LGBTQI community. I will fight against all these oppressions,” said Asmita. 
 
 Another issue that only one outfit has decided to address this time is the Nota option. All posters of Democratic Students’ Union (the parent outfit of FETSU) have a recurring theme — say no to Nota.
 
 “It is not an option. We have to make an informed choice and elect representatives who will work for the students. If you do not vote for any candidate, who will fight for your rights? We are urging students to vote smartly and elect smart representatives,” said  , a civil engineering student. Nota, also known as ‘against all’ or a ‘scratch’ vote, had debuted with the 2014 general election.
 
 The entire driveway of gate 4 was covered with poll graffiti. Colourful posters, political limericks and election agendas of the university were scattered everywhere. But for all the buzz around the polls, classes weren’t hampered. 
 
 “The election was held peacefully. Students headed to their classes after casting their votes,” said a professor.
 
