Anything that poses a challenge or a threat to our well-being is a stress. A   is an agent or stimulus that causes stress. Many life events such as leaving school, changing jobs, conflicts with friends and family members and experiencing losses can cause stress. Daily hassles such as being stuck in traffic, deadlines in office can also be stress-provoking. It's important to identify our stress or so we can learn to deal with them effectively.

 When we are suffering from high level of stress, we feel tense or anxious; suffer from headache, stomach complaints, uneasiness etc. Frequent stress may lead to mental health problems like anxiety and depression. Stress shoots up blood pressure beyond normal range and body gets exposed to stress hormone constantly which may lead to heart disease. How we handle stress is also matters. If we respond to stress by doing unhealthy things like smoking, overeating, or not exercising, that may worsen our health further.
 
 Reducing your stress levels can not only make you feel better right now, but may also protect your health long-term. In one study, researchers examined the association between “positive affect” — feelings like happiness, joy, contentment and enthusiasm — and the development of coronary heart disease over a decade. They found that for every one-point increase in positive affect on a five-point scale, the rate of heart disease dropped by 22 percent (2).
 
 We can handle stress by doing exercise, boosting positive attitude, avoid smoking, avoid drinking too much alcohol and coffee, eating healthy diet and maintaining a healthy weight. There are simple techniques to manage stress on our own.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Count to 10 before you speak. Take three to five deep breaths. Leave the stressful situation, and say you'll handle it later. Take a walk, Say “I'm sorry" in case of mistake.
 
 
  Start drawing, read a story books, play, listen to music, take a walk and do social work.
 
 
  Yoga, meditation, watching TV is good to relax. 
 
 Ultimately it is up to us to take care of our health, and we should understand that our physical and mental well-beings are intimately related to each other. We should strive hard to keep both these aspects at their best.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
