PATNA: The JD (U) on Friday raised questions over the sustainability of the  , a day after bringing up the issue of ignorance of the national planning body on the special package of Rs 125 lakh crore announced by Prime Minister   during the 2015 assembly polls.

 JD (U) spokesperson   in a presser at the state headquarters of the party said the Niti Aayog was not only unaware about such an important special package, but also not involved in finalization of the share of the Centre and the state in centrally-funded schemes.
 
 “The Centre should tell as per which notification the special package for Bihar has been sanctioned. It is quite disturbing that the Niti Aayog is not involved while finalizing the funding structure in centrally-funded schemes. The Centre is exerting financial burden on the states by increasing the share of state governments in centrally-funded schemes. It seems that the Niti Aayog is not able to serve the purpose for which it was originally constituted,” said Singh.
 
 JD (U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar, on the other hand, raised questions over the “silence” of the state BJP leaders on the ignorance of the Niti Aayog about the special package for Bihar announced by PM Modi. “It has been over 24 hours since we raised the matter of ignorance of the Niti Aayog about the special package, but there has been no reaction from the state leadership of the BJP as well,” Neeraj said and added, “It has been 623 days since the special package was announced for Bihar, which also promised jobs for youths in the state. We challenge BJP ministers at the Centre to enumerate even 623 jobs given to youths in the state since announcement of the package.”
 
 Earlier on Thursday, Neeraj and Prasad in a presser held at the JD (U) party office alleged that financial resource division of the Niti Aayog does not have any information about special package for Bihar. The two spokespersons claimed that the Niti Aayog said this in response to an   application filed by one Md Iqbal Ansari on April 12, 2017.
 
