BENGALURU: Recalling an incident when musicians in the early 70s and 80s were forced to create   videos due to the increasingly commercial nature of the industry, renowned classical singer   said she chose to have herself digitally recreated in the Diwan-i-Khas of the  , for the sake of irony.

 “I couldn’t believe my eyes. I had an entire selection of locations to choose from. I was left wondering when it became important. I decided soon after never to star in my own music video,” she laughed. Mudgal was participating in a panel discussion on ‘music in the city’.
 
 From discussing the politics of the recent   protests that took Chennai by storm to the reality of feminism today, the first day of   was pretty eventful. Organized for the first time in 2016 by the Indian Institute for Human Settlements, the three-day urban writing festival brought together authors, anthropologists, urban experts, musicians and film critics to discuss city writing.
 
 Harsh Mander, activist and author, who works with victims of violence in particular, spoke about how lonely the homeless can get in a hostile city. He was speaking on ‘city as ghetto/inclusive city’. “There is no concept of home. If you are sick, the doctor will treat you for a while and ask you to go home and recover. Simple things like this are impossible because you have no roof over your head. In such a situation, human relationships assume greater importance,” he said.
 
 The discussions saw panelists deliberate on topics like how the urban palate has changed to incorporate traditional flavours and whether or not a city can be separated from the writer living in it. Open and free to the public, City Scripts celebrates how writing about the city is now a political act in itself because of the multiple landscapes and competing claims that writers now have to negotiate. 
 
 Speaking about the impact of name change on the state of the city, for instance from Madras to Chennai, Tamil author and historian A R Venkatachalapathy cited the recent Jallikattu-related violence. “The police force has become a repressive arm of the state. It is like when MGR became chief minister, imposing Section 144 became a routine. Similarly, Marina beach became a site of protest and revolt, involving participation from unlikely quarters like urban students, who used the platform to bring other issues to the fore,” he said.
 
 Over the next two days, IIHS will see personalities like journalist Siddharth Varadarajan discussing censorship in the city, activist Vani Murthy as one of the glamorous garbage girls of Bengaluru and Rohini Nilekani questioning who can stake claim to the IT City. The attendees can also enjoy story-crafting workshops and hear authors discuss the nuances of their art, apart from buying books at the Atta Galatta stall.
 
 
