SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister   Singh on Monday said that the state government would initiate efforts for the construction of the Kaza-Mudh-Bhaba road through Pin Valley connecting Spiti and Kinnaur, which would   headquarter from Kaza to Shimla by 90 km.

 The CM said this while addressing a public meeting at Katgaon (Kafnoo) in Kinnaur district. He said that road from Atargoo to Mudh of around 34 km has already been constructed in Spiti and the plea for forest clearance has been submitted to the State Wild Life Board, to further take up the matter with National Wild Life Board, government of India, at the earliest.
 
 Pin valley is one of the four local units of Spiti in Lahaul-Spiti district and it lies on the either side of the Pin river. Geographically, the Pin valley is shut off from the rest of Spiti by high mountains. The only opening has been provided by the Pin river that forces its way through a deep narrow gorge to join the main river Spiti, at Atargoo.
 
 Slow progress on this 106-km proposed road has left the government concerned. A stretch of 33.5 km of road was completed from Kaza side and a portion of around 28 km falls in Pin Valley National Park Wild Life Sanctuary. At present the distance between Shimla and Kaza is around 410 km and one has to take an arduous journey through Nako, Sumdo and Tabo to reach Kaza. But through the new road the journey would be reduced to around 310 km.
 
 After inaugurating the three-day block level Jatru festival at Bhabanagar in Kinnaur, Virbhadra said that it was the moral duty of all to preserve the age old traditions, customs and culture. Such type of festivals at block level helps in providing a close glimpse of the culture of that particular area besides a platform to the local talent, he said. 
 
 He said that the process of distribution of nautor land to landless and to those as per the rules may be expedited. “I have already issued directions and don't won't any dilly-dallying tactics and the reasons thereafter,” he added.
 
 
