PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: An   has been set up at   to help students turn their ideas into workable models and enterprises.

 The centre, set up by the   (BVI) in association with the Science Park, was inaugurated on Sunday by Premnath V, head, NCL Innovations, National Chemical Laboratory. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Pravin Phutane, president, BVI, said, “We will identify talented students and give them guidance to undertake various projects. If needed, we will also provide them with books. A meeting with the students will be held at Science Park on Saturday (March 4). We had approached 10 schools in Pimpri Chinchwad who have expressed readiness in participating in our activities.”
 
 Explaining the aim behind starting the centre,  , former national president, BVI, said, “Instead of focusing new inventions, our focus is on making innovative use of existing inventions to solve every day problems. We have invited ideas from standard VII to IX students in this regard. People cannot get the commercial benefits of their innovations in absence of documentation and patent. So we will guide these students to turn their ideas into reality by making their commercial use by obtaining patent for them. We will give mentor them besides getting them guidance from reputed educational and scientific organisations for this purpose.”
 
 Premnath said, “We can hold talks at the Science Park for students in Pimpri Chinchwad on various topics. We also plan to hold such talks in municipal schools for the benefit of students.”
 
 Pravin Tupe, joint city engineer, PCMC, said, “We appeal to budding engineers from schools in the city to utilize this opportunity of innovation centre at Science Park to start their own enterprises by innovatively using available inventions.”
 
 As a part of the inaugural lectures, Premnath V, head, NCL Innovations, National Chemical Laboratory, delivered a lecture on ‘Currency notes’. Also, Abhay Kulkarni, director, Institute of Industrial and Computer Management and Research (IICMR), delivered a lecture on ‘Why Innovations?’ while Manoj Phutane spoke on ‘Concept of innovation centre’.
 
