Mumbai: Every candidate who is interviewed at the chairman’s level at   but is not selected is sent a personal letter by   along with a music CD. At  , an online learning platform in the   sector, the stress levels of candidates being interviewed for jobs is eased by providing them an ‘insider friend’ who can help them seek any information they require. Other practices followed by companies while dealing with candidates being interviewed include offering letters of acknowledgement to those rejected and thanking candidates for interest shown in the organisation.

 However, such practices are not widespread. In a candidate experience survey by   consultants, a large majority of candidates did not have a good experience during interviews last year (see graph). 
 
 This would have impacted the employer brands of several companies. A bad perception can lead to a negative referral for a company. In a market where skill sets are in high demand, a negative perception may have a crippling effect on a company’s ability to attract talent. The survey covered 488 respondents from middle management to senior management and CXO levels across India.
 
 Up to 41% candidates said they will not even recommend a company where they have had a bad candidate experience. Additionally, 42% said they will never join the company where they had a bad candidate experience. Only 20% candidates said they had a good candidate experience during interviews last year.
 
 Joseph Devasia, MD,  , said, “One negative experience and the employer brand is damaged to quite an extent. Word of mouth, social media, other digital platforms have made it easier for candidates to go vocal about their bad experience. In the case of a good candidate experience, it helps you build a strong follower base that speaks highly about your brand regardless of the outcome of their job application.” Anything from lack of feedback post-interview to poor logistics can lead to a bad candidate experience. Of those who had a bad experience, nearly 35% candidates said it was due to no feedback after the interview. Nearly 30% candidates said the wait between interview rounds put them off. A significant number (22%) of candidates termed unprofessional behaviour of interviewers — such as answering calls during interview, being rude, distracted and being indifferent — as the reason for a bad candidate experience.
 
 “For some companies, a bad candidate experience can happen when they are dealing with headhunters through the entire journey. It can be insensitive and it can go against the company if it has called off a position and the headhunter doesn’t convey the same to the candidate. At RPG, we take over from headhunters the moment the candidate is brought in direct contact with us. A candidate may or may not get selected post interview, but we make sure his or her experience is of a high order and the candidate continues to be brand ambassador for us,” said S Venkatesh, president (group HR), RPG Enterprises.
 
 A number of respondents recounted the meet and greet at the reception area — experiences with the administrative or junior staff like the receptionist/HR executive — as reasons for bad experience. VP Product at Toppr.com Joe Kochitty said the hiring manager acts as a friend and not an interviewer. “We hope we help them (candidates) learn something new during the process. It might be insights on startups or how we approach data science. We have had many wonderful brainstorming sessions right in the middle of an interview. The candidate goes away saying, ‘That was super fun. Maybe we can work together in the future’,” said Kochitty.
 
 Toppr is putting in place processes that can track and quantitatively measure the candidate’s experience. Kochitty said they want to ensure as the company expands, new managers are trained on the hiring philosophy. 
 
 A good candidate experience always pays back. Venkatesh said, “Recently, we did a search for a senior person at group level. The candidate who opted out for another assignment wrote back, saying he would like to stay in touch, thus paying us a good compliment.”
 
 
