KANPUR: Taking a cue from Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, the pradhan of   in Kanpur Dehat district has banned consumption of liquor in the village. The village head —   — has imposed a penalty of Rs 151 on those found consuming alcohol in the village.

 Virendra Singh, who is also known as Nayak in his village, said that apart from the penalty the offenders, those found creating a nuisance in the village would be fined Rs 1,000. The decision was taken by a 21-member committee formed by the villagers after rising incidents of violence and death of villagers addicted to liquor.
 
 There are about 900-1,000 residents in the village. “The fine collected from offenders will be used for development besides helping poor and the needy . Even the guests visiting villagers will not be spared,“ said the village head.
 
 The committee will also run an awareness campaign against   in the village, he said. “Apart from campaign, we have also constituted squads, comprising men and women volunteers, who immediately conduct spot inspection. They also keep an eye on bootleggers so as to keep a check on illicit liquor trade,“ said Ketaki Devi, a women volunteer.
 
 Apart from taking these steps, the committee also keeps a watch on omelette, fast food and soft drink vendors where guzzlers mostly consume alcohol. The decision has evoked an overwhelming response from the womengol of the village. “Such an initiative has brought relief for us.My husband often quarrels and beats me. At times, we would not even get food. Now peace prevails in our households,“ said a villager Premwati.
 
 “It was difficult to even manage food for one time. After the liquor ban, my husband has started supporting me financially for running the family. Earlier, he used to create havoc. The names of my children had to be struck off the school register over non-payment of fees. He is now supporting them,“ said another woman Manju. The village head said the liquor situation had become so bad that women of our houses could not venture out in the evening.
 
 “Lumpen elements used to gather in the village after the sunset and drink openly , making a lot of noise, fight among themselves or even passed obscene remarks on women folk. I would have to resolve petty fights on regular basis in village panchayat. Now, things have improved and the atmosphere here is more peaceful,“ Virendra singh further said. He said that the village had been turned into an alcohol and drug free zone. Several youngsters who had been liquor addicted, lost their lives in recent years.
 
