LUCKNOW: After the spectacular victory in parliament elections and then in the recent assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, it remains to be seen if the Bharitya Janata Party under the leadership of the new chief minister Adity Nath Yogi can make a clean sweep in the civic elections too when they are held in about two months. The party had fared badly in the 
  in small and medium size towns with nagar palikas, like Faizabad, though it was successful in the nagar nigam elections in bigger towns like Lucknow, where present deputy CM Dinesh Sharma of the party was elected mayor. 

 Notification for   will be out by May-end, announced state election commissioner Satish Kumar Agarwal, speaking to the TOI on Friday. Since   has experienced big success in Maharashtra civic polls and panchayat polls in Orissa, it will be a major challenge for the new chief minister to keep the winning streak going.
 
 What makes the challenge bigger is the alliance of Samajwadi Party and  . In 2012, the two regional parties   and the Bahujan Samaj Party did not contest civic elections.Yogi is discussing with his urban development minister Suresh Khanna a strategy for the party to ensure the saffron flag flies high in the civic polls too.
 
 Chief minister Yogi Adiyanath and state election commissioner Satish Kumar Agarwal, who is credited with being the only commissioner to have led the three general elections, the civic polls in 2012, the three-tier panchayat polls in 2015 will this time be the authority in civic polls. He has already held two rounds of meetings last week to prepare for the electoral exercise.
 
 The BJP has immense potential to make inroads in the semi-urban areas, which are nerve centres of development of small and medium towns in which in the last elections it could win just 10% seats.
 
 Started in 1995, civic polls have always been delayed and held only after the term of mayors and other heads of the civic bodes expired. Last time the elections were held on time was in 2000, when BJP was in power and this time too the chief minister does not want any delay. Talking to the TOI, national president of the Samajwadi Party confirmed on Friday that he his alliance would jontly contest the forthcoming civic polls in UP and would welcome anybody’s support, including of the  , against the BJP.
 
 “The commission is determined to hold the elections before July 10, when the five-year term of mayors and the civic bodies ends,” reiterated Agarwal, who disclosed to the TOI that the commission will hold nagar nigam elections using EVMs while for the nagar panchayat board and nagar panchayat polls, ballot papers will be used, as was done in the 2012 elections.
 
 Agarwal said the chief minister has asked authorities to complete delimitation and survey of reserved seats.
 
 “Revision of voter list will be completed shortly,” said Agarwal, who said that he has also taken into consideration apathy of urban voters in participating in the civic polls. Average polling in nagar nigam polls last time was 36% in 3. 25 crore voters for 630 civic bodies the state. Besides Firozabad nagar nigam, there are 22 nagar panchayats and two nagar palika parishads adding to the voter size in civic polls, said Agarwal. The poll commissioner hit the headlines in UP’s panchayat elections when he dispatched more than 400 IAS officers including of principal secretary rank to stay in villages prior to the rural elections deploying them as observers.
 
 “In Allahabad, voting for civic polls was only 27.2% and in Lucknow it was 34.3%, said Agarwal, adding that urban residents are most critical of the system in their drawing room discussions but when it comes to casting vote they are laggard. “I will deal with this problem through aggressive campaigning, voter awareness drives and involving the youth,” claimed Agarwal.
 
 Another major challenge for Yogi and the BJP is to penetrate into smaller and medium towns of the state where the party has not performed well so far. The BJP had won 10 out of 13 nagar nigams but in nagar palika parishad polls it won in only 42 out of 194 places and in only 36 out of 423 nagar panchayats.
 
