HYDERABAD: After the flood of   players in the market, the tech scene across the country is now witnessing a growing number of entrepreneurs turning their focus to edtech. Hyderabad, with its long list of tech-savvy private schools is now one of the most promising battlegrounds for  , after Bangalore, say industry experts.

 A look at the numbers indicates that unlike other sectors such as food tech and e-commerce, both of which have been witnessing a lull since 2015, the funding being pumped into the   has only seen a year-on-year hike and will continue to do so, according to reports.
 
 Drawing a comparison between the market potential for edtech startups in Hyderabad, now versus more than five years ago, Raveendranath Kamath, co-founder of Next Education, a K-12 focused technology based education solutions firm said, “When we launched an online learning product in 2009, the power and potential of digital education had not reached many city schools. We ultimately had to resort to shipping out DVDs instead. Now, however, with deeper internet penetration, real-time learning has become a reality. Nearly 90 per cent of schools across the country now use some sort of digital tools to teach students. Hyderabad, with a growing number of international and techno schools, is one of the best battlegrounds for edtech startups in the country, after Bangalore.“
 
 The large number of students preparing for nationallevel exams from the two states, has also transformed the city into a lucrative platform for edtech startups working in this area. Online Tyari, a Gurgaon-based multi-lingual test preparation platform, for instance, has chosen to expand into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh next, by introducing courses in Telugu.
 
 “In Telangana, there is a huge population of students trying to crack the central government services exams and other national-level tests. We have also observed that a large number of people in Hyderabad are already using our test preparation services. Also, two-thirds of our user base from Hyderabad prefer to learn for exams in their regional languages. This is why we have chosen to introduce Telugu, in addition to Marathi and Hindi, on our platform,“ said  ,  .
 
