NAGPUR: A day after   (SEC) deferred Nagpur Zilla Parishad (ZP) polls on account of High Court stay, the judges on Thursday disposed of the case, by excluding Parseoni and Wanadongri from ZP’s jurisdiction. The court thus paved way for SEC to announce poll programme for 58 ZP and 116 Panchayat Samitis (PS) seats under Nagpur district. Earlier, on Wednesday, election commissioner JS Saharia hadn’t announced schedule for ZP and PS polls citing court’s stay in conducting elections at Parseoni and Wanadongri.

 A division bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Sunil Shukre was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by ex-Shiv Sena MLA Ashish Jaiswal, Mahananda Patil,   leader Baba Ashtankar and deputy Sarpanch of Parseoni  , Prakash Domki.
 
 The court disposed of pleas by Jaiswal through counsel Mohit Khajanchi and Patil through lawyer Mahesh Dhatrak. However, pleas of Ashtankar and Domki, challenging upgradation of Parseoni gram panchayat as a   and that of Wanadongri as municipal council, through Maharashtra government’s notification of October 25 last year, were dismissed by the court that observed notification was in accordance of provisions of Section 341A of Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act.
 
 Earlier, SEC had contended that the government had no powers to issue notification (of October 25) for constitution of Nagar Panchayat, since elections were due in four months. The judges, while rejecting SEC’s contention, directed it to act in accordance with provisions of Constitution so that areas of village panchayat of Parseoni and Wanadongri would now be excluded from areas of ZP and PS of Nagpur district. Senior counsel Sunil Manohar pleaded on government’s behalf while Anand Parchure and Jemini Kasat appeared for SEC.
 
 After government upgraded the status of Parseoni and Wanadongri from Gram Panchayat to Nagar Panchayat and municipal council respectively, these two rural towns became urban areas. Since ZP polls couldn’t be held in both these towns due to their upgradation, the petitioners challenged the government’s move terming it untimely. On December 15, 2016, then division bench of Justice Gavai and Justice Vinay Deshpande had stayed the conduct of ZP and PS elections in the district while hearing the petition filed by the Congress leader.
 
 The petitioners had raised objections that existing ZP and PS members would be unseated with the government’s decision and expenditure they had incurred on contesting elections would be wasted. They argued the government’s decision to accord status of Nagar Panchayat to Parseoni and municipal council to Wanadongri was illegal as it was made just six months before holding the elections.
 
 
