NEW DELHI: In a jolt to   chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s attempts to distance the Samajwadi Party from its rough image, the   on Friday directed registration of a first information report (FIR) against  , a senior minister in the UP government, in a gangrape case. 

 The court said an FIR should be filed against Prajapati and his associates in the case to probe allegations levelled by a 36-year-old woman against the minister. 
 
 The court took strong exception to the UP police’s reluctance to register a criminal case against the minister. A bench of Justices A K Sikri and R K Agrawal described the allegations as “very serious”. 
 
 Prajapati is locked in a high profile contest in Amethi against Congress’s Ameeta Singh and BJP’s Garima Singh. Amita Singh is wife of Congress member Sanjay Singh and Garima is his exwife fielded by BJP. Prajapati was at the centre of the power struggle in the Mulayam Singh Yadav clan when Akhilesh sacked him and another minister Raj Kishore Singh over alleged corruption charges in September last year. 
 
 Thereafter, Samajwadi Party’s internal feud saw a few rounds of suspensions and expulsions before Prajapati and some other controversial figures finally got the party ticket. The decision has embarrassed SP with the SC order asking the UP police to file a case. The status of Prajapati as a local strongman is underlined by the fact that he is contesting in the Gandhi borough despite an SP-Congress election pact. 
 
 The bench directed the state police to complete the probe in two months. It asked police to file a report in a sealed envelope, passing the order on a plea filed by the victim who is also a corporator in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 According to the complainant, she was introduced to the minister three years ago through one Ashok Tiwari. She alleged that she was gang-raped by the minister and his associates in October 2014. She claimed Prajapati had taken her nude photographs that night and blackmailed her for three years during which she was sexually assaulted many times. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for the victim, told the bench that she had approached the DGP of Uttar Pradesh after the minister had tried to assault her 17-year-old daughter. 
 
 But no action was taken and not even an FIR was not lodged in the case and she was forced to leave the state and move to Delhi due to a threat to her life, he said. Refuting allegations that police did not take any action, state’s counsel Ravi P Mehrotra told the bench that crime branch of CID had conducted an inquiry and filed a report saying no definite conclusion could be reached in regard to the genuineness and truth of the allegations. Mehrotra contended that she failed to satisfactorily explain delay on her part in raising the issue or not approaching the local police station and police thereafter decided not to register an FIR. The apex court, however, was not satisfied with his contention and said police was bound to register case in heinous offences as held by various Supreme Court verdicts
