This week was packed with some very shocking yet important  . To ensure that you don't miss any, we bring you a  . Here is this week's aggregation of the latest   stories on health,  .

 
 
 
 Along with diet and exercise, good sleep plays a critical role in health and overall well-being.
 
 
 
 
 Air pollution may increase the potential of bacteria to cause respiratory infections by reducing the effectiveness of antibiotics.
 
 
 
 
 The proportion of obese or over-weight people in India has almost doubled in the last 10 years. 
 
 
 
 
 "We don't know how many patients here (in India) are affected, but they aren't any less than what doctors in the UK see."
 
 
 
 
 Suicide is one of the biggest public health problems, with over 300 Indians committing suicide every day.
 
 
 
 
 High-intensity aerobic exercise may be the best type of training for people over 65, as it can reverse some cellular aspects of ageing.
 
 
 
 
 Men who take drugs to treat hair loss or an enlarged prostate may experience erectile dysfunction, and the problem can persist long after they stop taking the medication.
 
 
 
 
 Pollution is causing 'life-giving' rain to become increasingly acidic in many parts of the country.
 
 
 
 
 Subtle signs of fatal heart attacks, such as fainting, shortness of breath and chest pain that may occur up to a month before death, are often missed by doctors in many hospitalized patients.
 
 
 
 
 Government has released new data that shows caesarean section deliveries are on a rapid rise in private hospitals across the country.
 
 
 
 
 Depression cases are fast increasing in India with over 5 crore people suffering from the disorder, the highest in WHO's South East Asia and Western Pacific region, which includes China.
 
 
 
 
 In India, almost 200,000 new patients need dialysis every year, and it is estimated that less than 30 per cent of patients manage to receive this life-saving therapy mainly due to non-availability or unaffordability, says a study.
 
 
 
 
 Many of these bacteria have already evolved into deadly superbugs that are resistant to many antibiotics, the United National health agency said.
 
 
 
 
 At least five countries including Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil are testing Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes to check the spread of dengue.
 
 
 
 
 Researchers have found evidence that a ban on smoking in public places could be an effective measure to reduce exposure to second-hand smoke which has long been associated with negative health effects.
 
 
 
 
 Let's drop the 'five-a-day' rule for fruits and vegetables as a recent study has shown that we must double the number if we want to reduce the chances of diseases significantly.
 
 
