HYDERABAD: The menace of   seems to be deep-rooted in the major government hospitals in the state, including   and  . The rot stems from the fact that the Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC), which supplies medicines to government-run hospitals, lacks qualified doctors in several key posts.

 The TSMSIDC, which was formed by the state government two years ago, does not have a doctor of medicine ( ) to keep a tab on quality of medicines. The post has been lying vacant since the bifurcation of united Andhra Pradesh. Government doctors say the TSMSIDC needs to be immediately equipped with more pharmacologists, pharmacists as well as clinical pharmacists. According to sources, the recent cases of substandard saline, drugs and even bandages in these hospitals are due to the lack of scientific quality checks by efficient pharmacologists.
 
 The shortage of doctors is also taking a toll on the health of the common man, who has no option but to visit government hospitals for medical needs. Even Osmania and Gandhi Hospital, which figure among the top 10 government hospitals in  , are plagued by vacant posts in major disciplines, including anatomy, the first subject a student is taught after admission to a medical college. 
 
 A senior government doctor told TOI that all the three posts of professors in anatomy in Osmania Medical College are vacant. One post of anatomy professor is vacant in Gandhi Hospital. 
 
 The acute stress on the quality of healthcare and teaching can be gauged from the fact that just 24 doctors (six in biochemistry, 12 in pathology and six in microbiology) are forced to conduct laboratory tests for a majority of the 2,000 odd patients who visit Gandhi Hospital every day. They also have to conduct classes for 200 medical students apart from teaching nursing, medical lab technology, naturopathy and yogic science students.
 
 Other vacant positions include professor of physiology (one each in Gandhi and Osmania) and pharmacology (two in Osmania and one in Gandhi). One of the posts of pharmacology in   is occupied by the principal of Nizamabad Medical College.
 
 In the department of microbiology at Gandhi, only six faculty members take care of emergency laboratory, serum research lab, integrated counselling and testing centre for HIV and CD-4 count lab.
 
 “There has always been a dearth of faculty at all levels such as assistant and associate professors and professors. Immediate promotions from associate to professors and assistant to associate professors of eligible candidates, and recruitment of new candidates will help solve the crisis. It will also prevent recurrence of unsavoury incidents,” a senior faculty member in Gandhi Medical College said.
 
 There is also a need to improve infrastructure in biochemistry, pathology and microbiology laboratories besides strengthening the pharmacovigilance cell, he added.
 
 
