MUMBAI: The state associations have begun to `hook' the `Deloitte bouncer' in right earnest, it seems.

 In a letter to accountancy firm Deloitte on March 16 (a copy of which is with TOI), the   ( ), while expressing its disappointment over parts of the report being leaked to the media (which the accountancy firm denied in its response), had defended itself on certain points mentioned by the Deloitte auditors in the report.
 
 The report, which was sent to all the associations by Amarchand & Mangaldas, the Board's legal firm, on Monday, has pointed out that the MCA had allotted 19 corporate boxes at the   without a tender process, offered 4,800 subsidized tickets to the Garware Club House, which can then charge their members extra on these tickets, and donated Rs 1 crore to Maharashtra Chief Minister's drought relief fund without any such provision in its by-laws. 
 
 “It's been mentioned that 19 corporate boxes were allotted by the MCA without tenders. This is grossly incorrect. Tenders were issued by advertisements in local newspapers and full record of the same is available in our files. The contemporaneous evidence is available for verification by your team even today,” says the letter by MCA to Deloitte.
 
 Regarding the point that the MCA offer tickets to the Garware Club House at subsidized rates, which in turn charges higher rates to their members, the letter says: “We have brought to the notice of your audit team that the steps taken by the MCA are strictly in accordance with the consent decree filed before the Honourable High Court of Bombay. There is nothing irregular or surreptitious about the steps taken by us.
 
 “It's unfortunate that a step taken by us in compliance with the orders of the jurisdictional court is presented in negative light. We strongly urge that the fact that the consent terms were arrived at after years of litigation and upon the urging by the court that the matter be amicably settled rather than continuing with the litigation. It was in this context that certain commitments were made 42 years ago,” the MCA explained.
 
 Defending its decision to donate Rs 1 crore for the CM's relief fund last year without there being a provision for it in its constitution, the MCA has pointed out to the observation of the Bombay High Court last year that the “association should be more socially aware and should take into account the extreme drought situation prevailing in the state,” which eventually led to   matches being shifted out of Maharashtra.
 
 “The donation in question was made at the behest of the Maharashtra CM as our contribution towards providing relief to the drought-affected population of the state. It's once again ironic and unfortunate that while we face criticism for failing to take note of the drought situation prevalent in the state, we simultaneously seem to attract adverse comment for having taken steps to share in the noble effort for providing relief to drought affected people through the mechanism of a publicly governed trust,” the MCA says in its letter.
 
 
 
 
 Chaired by its president Ashish Shelar, the managing committee of the MCA is set to discuss certain 'burning topics' on Friday.
 
 While an important agenda will be to discuss the Deloitte report, another key matter is the new BCCI constitution, which allows the prestigious association to vote only once in three years, along with Maharashtra and Vidarbha, in the Board elections. In an SGM last year, the MCA had rejected this Lodha reform, and its stand looks set to continue.
 
