CHENNAI: For the first time at home,   & Co are up against it. A batting debacle ­ not once but twice in the first Test at Pune -has put India behind right at the start of four-Test series against Australia.

 Ever since Kohli took charge in Tests, India have adopted the five-bowler strategy successfully with wicket-keeper  ,   and   taking on the additional responsibility of scoring crucial runs in the lower middle-order.
 
 In fact, runs from the bat of spin trio -Ashwin, Jadeja and Jayant Yadav -has had a direct impact in Kohli's dream run as skipper thus far. However, the Indian middle-order, which had rescued the team on many occasions in recent times, came a cropper on a rank turner against the Australian spinners as they were blown away in a matter of minutes in both the innings. In the first innings, India lost their last seven wickets for 11 runs, while India's last seven batsmen contributed 30 runs in the second.
 
 But it's not that India don't have options. Kohli's current strategy has meant that middleorder batsman Karun Nair, who made a triple-hundred against England in the fifth Test at Chennai, had to warm the bench since.
 
 There are quite a few who feel that Nair could be included in place of off-spinner Jayant, who was under bowled (13 overs in each innings) and looked ineffective in the match. But that would mean India going back to the tried-and-tested seven batsmen four bowler theory which won them many Tests over the years.
 
 Former India skipper Ajit Wadekar and coach feels the combination conundrum is“tricky“ ahead of the second Test in Bengaluru starting March 4. “To strengthen the batting line-up, perhaps you can bring in Nair, who has been in fine form. You can have seven batsmen, but one must not forget that we have to take 20 wickets to win a Test.That's more important. It's a tricky call. Combination depends a lot on the nature of the wicket. If we pick four bowlers, then there could be too much of pressure on the two spinners (Ashwin and Jadeja),“ Wadekar told TOI. Former India keeper and selector Saba Karim believes India “will not“ change the combination just because of losing one Test. “I don't think India will change the combination (5-bowler theory) because of the fact that they had lost the Test match. If India are to change the combination, then it should depend on the surface, which India have done in the past. If the conditions are similar to that of in Pune, then I don't think they will change. India lost because of poor batting and not because of combination. The 6-5 strategy has been their winning mantra,“ said Karim. Despite the failure of the Indian allrounders in the first Test, both Karim and Wadekar backed them to deliver the goods stating that such a bat ting collapse “won't happen“ again. “These things (batting collapses) do happen, but it doesn't mean India will falter again. I think the batting in Pune was just an aberration and India will bounce back in Bengaluru. The allrounders will step up and deliver,“ said Wadekar.
 
 It has been difficult for Nair to sit out despite getting a triple ton.But Karim feels it isn't an “unfair“ decision. “It's hard on him, but I wouldn't say it's unfair.That's how you grow as a cricketer and that's what international cricket is all about. You wait for the right time,“ he added.
 
 
