MUMBAI: In a detailed order exonerating the   who were earlier convicted for assaulting a traffic constable for intercepting one of their trucks , a   has found substance in the defence argument that the traffic constable had been stopping the trucks for  . The court pointed out that the constable was not even scheduled to be on duty at that time. " The unauthorized presence of   on the spot at the time of incident speaks in volume that there is substance in the defence raised by the accused persons that the informant and other police constables used to trouble the truck drivers," the court said. 

 On Monday the court set aside the eight month sentence awarded to the officers, Alok Joshi, Satgulsinha Sinha, Kalyansinha Bhadoria, Ravishankar Pandey and Swaroop Nayak by an assistant sessions judge in 2015. They were accused of assulting the constable after he stopped a CISF truck which was coming from the wrong direction
 
 On October 15, 2015, the assistant sessions judge convicted the accused under the Indian Penal Code sections including 332 (Causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 143 (unlawful assembly). They were also ordered to pay a fine of Rs 3,000 each. 
 
 Aggrieved with the judgement, the CISF officers had moved the court of the additional sessions judge through senior advocate   and advocate Swapana Kode.
 
 Referring to the statements of the witnesses, the additional sessions judge court observed that considering the inconsistencies in the statements of the victim and the police officer, it was improbable that such an incident had taken place. The court said that Tawde's duty hours were from 3 pm to 11 pm the crucial question is under what capacity and why for he had come to the spot of incident at 9 am and asking licence to the truck drivers. " The obstruction created by informant   to the truck which was given green signal by the CISF employee to enter the Yellow Gate Number one strengthens the defence of the accused persons that the informant with ill motive stopped the truck and as the accused were assisting the truck drivers and were prohibiting the police constables from demanding bribe from them, they were falsely involved in this case," the court held. 
 
 
