PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: IT professionals travelling from Hinjewadi to Pune can look forward to a faster commute with the civic body constructing an underpass at the ‘Y’ junction on the   BRTS route. 

 Once the junction becomes signal-free, travel time from the Hinjewadi IT park to Sangvi, Aundh, Chatushringi and Pune will reduce considerably. 
 
 The ‘Y’ junction is the spot where the road from Wakad meets the rapid transit system (BRTS) corrdior (see graphics). This is the shortest route thousands of IT professionals take daily on their way back home after work. At present, they often get stuck in traffic snarls for hours at the junction. 
 
 Vijay Bhojane, spokesperson of the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) cell, said, “The ‘Y’ junction will become signal-free once the underpass is ready. Buses plying on the Sangvi-Kiwale (BRTS) route will not have to halt at the junction. This will reduce the travel time. Vehicles from Kiwale or Jagtap dairy Chowk, Pune, Aundh and   will not have to halt at the junction as well.”
 
 He added, “Container trucks and trailers often get stuck inside the grade separator at Pimpri on the Pune-Mumbai highway. This causes snarls for hours. Vehicles with a maximum height of 4.5m only can pass through the grade separator. As we do not want this to happen in the underpass, its height has been kept at 5.5m. Heavy vehicles and container trucks and trailers can also pass through it.” 
 
 A Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation official said work order for the underpass project was issued on March 5, 2014 and it had a 15-month deadline. The project got delayed as the civic body needed defence land.” 
 
 Prithviraj Sathe, a resident of   said, “Thousands of private vehicles used by IT professionals on way to Sangvi, Aundh and Pune city halt at the chowk because of the traffic signal. The traffic snarls sometime continue for as long as 1-2km. The worst affected spot is the Wakad-‘Y’ junction.”
 
 A commuter from Wakad said many vehicles get into wrong lanes on the opposite direction to reach the junction fast. “This reduces the space for vehicles headed for Pimple Nilakh or Wakad,” he added.
 
