NEW DELHI: The high court on Tuesday dismissed an   plea to prosecute   chief   for contempt of court.

 A division bench of Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Jayant Nath referred to its August 2016 verdict to hold that Meena only acted as per law by obeying LG’s instructions and didn’t invite contempt action from court.
 
 Delhi government had sought initiation of contempt proceedings against him for allegedly violating the court’s order by removing an SHO of the anti-graft body and for “blocking” work of the Anti Corruption Branch (ACB).   falls under the state government’s jurisdiction. But HC reiterated its earlier observation that “nothing remains” in the contempt plea against Meena since the AAP government’s challenge on the issue of curtailment of the powers of the anti-graft body has been dismissed by way of a judgment.
 
 In its contempt plea, the city government had alleged that Meena arbitrarily replaced the then SHO of ACB, and in the process had “willfully violated” HC’s June 29, 2015 order asking the ACB chief to act in “accordance with the law”.
 
 The government also alleged that Meena and the SHO appointed by him had not lodged an FIR against two officials of the   (DDA) who were allegedly caught accepting bribe. During the hearing on October 27 last year, additional solicitor general (ASG)  , appearing for Meena, had said that “there was absolutely no willful disobedience” by the chief of Delhi’s ACB who had acted in accordance with the law by not lodging an FIR.
 
 The ASG had said the DDA officials were central government employees and the ACB did not have powers to take action against them, more so after HC’s judgment holding the LG as the administrative head of Delhi. He was upholding the Centre’s notification regarding ACB’s powers, which settled the law and thus “the contempt plea was infructuous.”
 
 Delhi government senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra had alleged that a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) had caught the DDA officials red-handed and had gone to the ACB for lodging an FIR. 
 
 
