 Panaji: The Goa NRI Commission’s Overseas Employment Agency of Goa has imparted skill training to over 100 workers since January 2007 when it was set up. The agency was registered as a recruitment agency by the Protector General of Immigrants. Meetings were held with embassies in other countries and with companies abroad, but these couldn’t be taken forward. “The companies were asking for commission which we said we couldn’t give as we were a government recruitment agency,” says OSD to NRI Commissioner, U D Kamat. The agency didn’t renew its license that expired after a period of five years. But ever since it has been imparting training to youth including plumbers, electricians, refrigeration and air-conditioning mechanics, tailors and those involved in food production under the scheme for skill upgradation and pre-departure orientation programme for emigrant workers. The youth receive the training through government run ITIs and government recognized private technical institutions, all free-of-cost. These institutions that have the required infrastructure in place to conduct skill upgradation also conducted pre-departure foreign orientation training programmes to familiarize youth with general working conditions in foreign countries, adaptation to foreign environment, safety norms and use of tools and equipment which would benefit them while securing jobs in overseas establishments.  Some have found jobs abroad thereafter while others are gainfully employed within the state. The agency has been conducting a number of miscellaneous courses in mobile repairs, food production and health care for school dropouts. The NRI commission through its Overseas Employment Agency has also been guiding those looking for jobs abroad.  “Through our embassies we also help advise people and verify how genuine their job offer abroad is. There’s a lot of riffraff going on and people are often taken for a ride. There are only five authorized Recruiting Agents in Goa certified by the Protector General of Emigrants, Delhi. The rest should not be trusted,” Kamat says. The commission also has a list of do’s and don’ts for Indian emigrants that it has uploaded on its website and circulated to religious institutions and high schools in the state.