BENGALURU: Lakhs of Bengalureans dependent on taxi-hailing aggregators Uber and Ola were stranded on Thursday as thousands of   struck work. They even threatened to resort to desperate measures like torching their vehicles, if the authorities failed to respond soon.

 The strike was near total as the Uber and Ola apps were either not functioning properly or indicating that cabs would take a long time to reach commuters. With very few taxis operating, passengers had to bear the brunt of surge pricing. 
 
 Spokesmen for a drivers’ union said over 50,000 (around one lakh cabs ply in the city) taxis took part in the strike. Admitting that despair is enveloping their community due to unresponsive aggregators and government, the spokesmen said they will continue the stir, he added. Ola issued an apology to users via its app, saying it is working to resolve the situation, while Uber urged the authorities to intervene.
 
 The   (OTUDA), threatened to escalate the stir. “We will not ply for another day or two and if there is still no response from the people who matter, we will torch our cabs at busy intersections and in the middle of the road. Either way, banks are sure to seize our vehicles as most drivers who own the cabs have been unable to repay the loans over the last couple of months,” OTUDA president Tanveeer Pasha said.
 
 Drivers alleged that Ola and Uber have not met them, despite the transport commissioner asking the latter to resolve the problems amicably, after a driver affiliated with Ola attempted suicide on February 16. “We had asked the management to meet the drivers’ union, sort out the issues and inform us. But they haven’t come to meet me yet,” confirmed transport commissioner M K Aiyappa.
 
  
 
 
 With the authorities making it clear that they would tolerate no high-handedness, drivers from various unions were seen offering roses to their colleagues who were operating on Thursday. The protesting drivers urging them to stop services and stand by them. Ten drivers offering roses were detained by police in Kodigehalli, north Bengaluru and Mysuru Road satellite bus terminal, west Bengaluru. 
 
 
 
 Despair was writ large on the faces of cabbies working for aggregators like Uber and Ola on Wednesday, as they resumed their strike after the promised conciliation didn’t materialize.
 
 The drivers have been on warpath and have protested a few times to press for demands like bringing an end to dynamic pricing, insurance in case of an accident while at work and humane incentivization rules. On Tuesday, Ola representatives were to arrive in Bengaluru for talks but it didn’t happen. The issue flared up on Wednesday as drivers who visited the Uber office to inquire about the incentives were told about huge cuts and commissions. Stones were hurled at the office in the melee.
 
 The drivers allege their monthly earnings have dipped from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 30,000 over the past couple of years as the companies have been actively encouraging more and more cabs to hit the road. Paying EMIs to repay loans is becoming impossible, they say. “I have pledged my wife’s jewellery worth Rs 35,000 in the past two months and have nothing left to pay the EMI. I am working for Ola and Uber during the day and ferrying private company employees at night. I get about eight to nine bookings through the apps. Give the stiff targets, incentives are just impossible to avail ,” a driver said.
 
 They said the companies are rubbing salt into their wounds by making deductions from their payments. “If we go to file a complaint against the company representatives, retired cops hired as consultants intervene and lobby against us,” said another driver.
 
 OTUDA president Tanveeer Pasha blamed the transport department for the mess. “They admitted that ride-sharing is illegal, only to step back and say the matter falls under the Central Motor Vehicles Act,” he said. “Most of the issues we have raised like bias towards cabbies who have leased vehicles through Ola and Uber and the unreasonable targets for incentives have not been sorted out. The government is acting like it has no role to play. Companies are playing with the lives of drivers,” he claimed.
 
 Drivers also complained that the aggregators have increased the commission for each trip from 10% to 25%. “The incentive promised to us is also deducted from the fare paid by the commuter. This means, we get only half the fare. And if we fail to achieve the targeted trips per day, we are told that we have forfeited the deducted incentives,” said another driver.
 
 
 
 
 “We're sorry that our service has been disrupted in Bengaluru. We're aware of isolated reports of threats and intimidation from a small group of people. We again call on the authorities to put an end to this illegal behaviour. We are committed to ensuring that drivers who wish to work are able to do so, and riders can get from A to B conveniently, reliably and safely.”
 
 
