KOCHI: On Thursday, the   (SIT) probing the actor rape case found that   had used a stolen mobile phone to make calls inside Kakkanad prison. Also, film producer Anto Joseph and Dileep's friend and mimicry association president KS Prasad were summoned by the police to   police club for questioning on Thursday.

 Joseph was one among those who talked to Pulsar Suni on the night of the incident. “I talked to Suni in the presence of MLA   after getting the number from Suni's accomplice Martin, a driver. Suni cut the call after I identified myself over the phone,“ he had said.
 
 Sources confirmed that police had summoned Prasad to record his statement. While leaving the club, Prasad claimed that he was not summoned for questioning and that he was meeting a friend there. But Prasad, who spent around 15 minutes inside the club, later admitted that he was indeed called for questioning.
 
 Meanwhile, sources close to the investigation team said that the phone used by Pulsar in prison belonged to a resident of Salem, Tamil Nadu. The phone was reportedly stolen from Coimbatore in October 2016. Tower location details later revealed that it has been used in the area around Kakkanad district prison since April 2017.
 
 An internal investigation by prison authorities revealed that Vishnu, a cell mate of Suni, had smuggled the phone inside the prison by concealing it inside his shoe. He had reportedly handed over the phone to Suni through one Mahesh. SIT sources said that during interrogation, Suni had told the police that he had used the phone to contact both Nadirsha and Appunni, a close aide of actor Dileep.
 
 Suni, who was remanded in police custody, said he was tortured by the police and his revelations had resulted in this suffering. He said that his `dying declaration' should be recorded. His present lawyer BA Aloor approached the judicial first class magistrate court in Kakkanad seeking permission to visit the accused daily while he was in custody. The advocate asked the court to end the custody since his client `was being tortured by the police'.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the Angamaly judicial first class magistrate court said that a petition by Suni's previous lawyer to view the visuals of the crime was declined. The petition, which was filed a few weeks ago, had sought evidence in the case. “His then lawyer had submitted a plea to examine the visuals of the crime but it was declined as it would compromise the secrecy. The plea arose after evidence was submitted in court. They include memory cards and other documents,“ said a source in the Angamaly public prosecutor's office.
 
