 Call it an understatement or modesty, but the above words comes from a personality who now helms her own cookery show. “And I say this because I’m not a born   or someone who is passionate about cooking. I just happen to cook and those dishes fortunately turn out well,” laughs veteran actor and theatre person   who has recently gone on air with her maiden cookery show  .
  “In fact, my husband Lokesh would call me fluke Girija as I don’t use a measure nor do I follow a method. I cook according to my fancy and to my luck, it always tastes great. People who eat my food, attest that it’s the best they’ve partaken. Still, I don’t consider myself a good cook, maybe because my cooking doesn’t follow a template or the dainty ways that others follow,” she shares.
  Girjamma, as she’s fondly called, confesses that she didn’t even know how to hold the ladle until she got married. “During my childhood, I hadn’t even stepped into the kitchen. But I do remember being quite fond of the anna saaru and uppittu that was made at my maternal home. When I tied the knot with Lokesh, I was truly amazed by his passion for cooking. That’s how I learnt to cook,” she tells us. The actor adds how everyone in the Lokesh household is fond of cooking. “Srujan (her son) is a good cook and so is my daughter Pooja. In fact, she’s even won a five-lakh rupees prize for cooking. My daughter-in-law Greeshma also cooks wells. But they’re all so neat and tidy when they cook. When I’m in the kitchen, it’s a complete mess. The counter becomes like a showcase and is filled with all the ingredients. My children always pull my leg about this,” avers Girijamma. Another unique aspect of her household is that none of them like eating food at hotels. “I am of this old-time belief that food always tastes much better when it is cooked and eaten at home accompanied by some friendly banter. Which is why even for parties and functions, we never cater food from outside. This is how it was during my husband’s time and it continues till today,” says she.
  It’s this old-world charm that she also wants to portray through her cookery show. “Today, if you go to any function, everything tastes the same because it’s all about paneer and masalas. I want to show people the charm of using traditional ingredients and re-introduce them to the cooking styles of the by-gone days. Even though my show is called Garam Masala, I don’t use ready masalas. I make use of sesame seeds, turmeric and cumin which are all good for the body,” Girijamma points out. Ultimately, food nourishes not just the body but also the soul and that’s why cooking the right way is extremely important she sums up.
