VIJAYAWADA: The   government has started a massive dog sterilisation programme across the 113 urban local bodies in the state.

 According to plans, the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department will sterilise 1,79, 044 stray dogs by the end of next month. Tenders have been called for executing the programme. The government will pay Rs 175 for the sterilisation of each dog. The contract agencies have roped in veterinary doctors on a contract basis. Apart from basic infrastructure, other requirements such as dog catchers, medicines, post-operative care facilities, and food during rest period will be borne by the implementing agency.
 
 After a dog is sterilised, the veterinaries will make a scar on the animal’s ear, denoting that it has been sterilised. This will help in identification. Additionally, a mobile application has been developed and uploaded on Google  , which has also been synchronized with commissioner and director of municipal administration (CDMA) website. Details, such as time and date of when the strays were caught, the ward number, the animals’ photo, exact location, surgical activities (sterilisation or immunisation) and release of dogs, will be uploaded in the application. Officials further said the dog will be dropped off at the same place where they were picked up from after the sterilisation is over.
 
 It may be recalled that the state government finalised on the sterilisation drive after the Supreme Court’s directive to all states that the population of strays must be checked. Under the programme named animal birth control and anti-rabies vaccination (ABC & ARV), AP government conducted a stray dogs survey and finalised guidelines. It was found that about 1, 79,044 dogs need to be sterilized.
 
 “So far, we sterilised a little more than 50,000 dogs. We want to meet our entire target by August” principal secretary of MA&UD R Karikal Valaven. Officials are following a cluster approach for the execution of the project. As many as 27 clusters were formed across the 113 urban local bodies.
 
