KOCHI: Lee Sang Heon, who moved to Kochi for pursuing school education, has often found himself in a tough spot while trying to explain to local residents that he was from   and not  . "Sometimes people sympathize with me as they assume I come from a country suffering under dictatorship. But I am from South Korea, a democratic country," said Sang, a Class X student at the Toc H  . 

 He is one among the increasing number of South Korean students flocking to the city to study in the schools here. For instance, there are currently 11 South Korean students in Toc H Public School. 
 
 "About 10 years ago, we had just one student from South Korea. But gradually, more students have joined. We don't really have to help them out in any special way. They usually make friends easily with local children," said Merra Thomas, vice-principal of Toc H Public school. "We have a buddy system put in place-whenever a new student joins our school, we assign them a buddy. He guides him and introduces him to other students and makes him feel comfortable. This lasts for around two weeks, helping the foreign student settle in," said Indu Panicker, principal of Global Public School. 
 
 "One of the main reason why South Koreans send their children to India is that students develop a good command over the English language. And sometimes they even pick an Indian language," said Deepa Aruja from Su and Park Institutes, a facility that provides boarding services to Korean students.
 
 "The only major problem is that people try to swindle cash from them, be it shop owners or autorickshaw drivers as they are foreigners. But they are happy about Kochi," said Aruja.
 
  "We are often treated differently but not badly," said Lee Eun Seo, who studies in Class XI. She has been in Kochi for the past seven years.
 
  "People often think we are somehow naturally gifted when it comes to certain subjects or extracurricular activities but we are just like everyone around," said Sang Heon.
 
 "This is a huge investment on the part of our parents and on top of that we know how important this is for us, personally I don't need anyone telling me why it is important for me to study well," said Sang Heon, who plans on writing the Common Law Admission Test once he completes his schooling.
 
 He said the overall pressure on students was relatively lesser in India than it was in South Korea. "Back at home, we have the "suneung" (college entrance examination). Our future depends on it but in India that's not the case, it is a bit different. I am not saying that there is no pressure, it is relatively less," he said.
 
 
