ALLAHABAD: In a fresh bid to woo farmers who had faced numerous problems during note ban, Uttar Pradesh   leadership has decided to connect with them in cold weather conditions prevailing in the state by holding ‘Alav par charcha’ (meeting around bonfire) campaign.

 In this connection, the BJP will organize bonfire meetings across 822 blocks in the state on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s signature outreach programme ‘Chai par charcha’, from Sunday onwards. The meetings will be organized at four to five places in each assembly constituency in the state.
 
 A BJP leader said the meetings are aimed at striking a connect with the farmers’ community by apprising them about the various welfare schemes of the Modi government in the past two and half years.
 
 BJP leader Ashish Gupta said, “All BJP units will organize ‘alav pe charcha’ in various villages and 22 blocks of Allahabad. With this campaign, we want to apprise farmers about the welfare schemes introduced by the Union government and also tell them about the ‘failures’ of the state government.”
 
 He added that BJP’s block-level leaders will also find out the problems the farmers are facing and take initiative to solve them. 
 
 In Allahabad, the party will conduct such meetings in Manda, Meja, Shankargarh, Nawabganj, Kaurihar, Ramnagar, Holagarh, Mauaima, Phulpur, Bara, Karchana, Handia , Bahariya, Chaka, Urwa and Kaudhiyara blocks.
 
 Meanwhile, as part of BJP’s voter connect initiative, Union minister Smriti Irani interacted with young women of 10 cities in UP over tea via video-confrencing from Meerut on Friday in a programme titled ‘Udaan’. For this purpose, video-conferencing facilities were set up at Lakshmi Talkies crossing, Mutthiganj and   in Sulemsarai in Allahabad.
 
 Local party leaders said the interaction was planned to get feedback on the effect of demonetisation on BJP’s chances in   elections.
 
 Similarly, the saffron party has also planned to launch a similar programme on January 15, to connect with the traders’ community to get their feedback after demonetisation.
 
 
