BENGALURU: With eating out and entertainment set to get expensive in Karnataka with the advent of the Goods and   (GST), the state government is mulling over ways to help local industries. While the government is looking to formulate a policy, with special focus on the   film industry, one option before it is to reimburse the tax collected by the government on movie tickets.

 “Now that the GST Council has announced the tax rates, various sectors have been expressing their concerns. While the government is well aware of specific issues such as those related to the Kannada film industry, we will take necessary steps in due course,” said  , secretary to the finance department 
 
 A senior official in the finance department said the government was considering a proposal to reimburse the tax collected by it. At present, Kannada films are exempted from entertainment tax, while a 30% entertainment tax is levied on other language films. The effective tax on the ticket for an other language film comes to 45%, with 15 % service tax added to the entertainment tax.
 
 However, the new GST rates have come as boon for other-language films, with tickets being classified under the 28 % slab; filmgoers have to pay 28% GST irrespective of the film’s language. “In a city like Bengaluru, other-language films, including Hindi, Tamil, Telugu and Hollywood movies have been all along enjoying a good market and Kannada films have been put to tough competition. Now, the GST will deal a death blow to Kannada films as they have to suffer the same amount of tax as other-language movies,” said Vivek Mallya, a chartered accountant, who is advising the Karnataka Film Chambers of Commerce (KFCC) on GST.
 
 Sa Ra Govindu, president of KFCC, said the film fraternity would meet on the GST issue on Monday. “We have already appealed to the government on the GST issue. If the tax rate goes up from the present zero percent to 28%, it’ll pose a serious threat to the very survival of the industry,” said Govindu.
 
 While 28% GST is split into two components — 14 % State Goods and Service Tax (SGST) and 14% Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST), levied by the state and the Centre respectively, experts said the state government has the leeway to exempt or reimburse the tax collected by it.
 
 “The GST Council has given an option to the states to look into the SGST component and the state governments can take decision whether to levy or exempt it, depending on the priority of the sector,” said B T Manohar, taxation committee chairman at Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI). As far as the hotel industry is concerned, non-AC restaurants have been put under the 12% GST slab. At present, non-AC hotels are being levied 4% of composite tax (COT), not collectible from customers. “Eating out will be expensive even at small restaurants as the tax component would be passed on to customers,” said P C Rao, vice-president of Bangalore Hoteliers Association.
 
 Rao said the hotel industry is urging the Centre to classify non-AC restaurants under 5% GST slab, and a delegation would meet Union revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia, who is expected to be in Bengaluru on May 30.
 
 Hotels to shut down on May 30?
 
 Hoteliers in Karnataka are likely to call a bandh on May 30 to protest the GST Council’s decision to classify non-AC restaurants under 12 % tax slab. They are meeting on Monday to chart out a plan of action. “We decided to protest the GST Council’s decision. All restaurants in the state, including AC and non-AC, will be shut on May 30. However, the final decision on this will be taken on Monday,” said P C Rao, vice-president of Bengaluru Hoteliers Association. 
 
