CHENNAI:   and Nisha Vinayak were at their wit's end. Having adopted two sibling puppies, they were struggling to control them. In the fear of being booted out of the apartment complex, the couple went to Prasanna Gopinath, a banker turned behaviourist. 

 An hour of just observing the dogs, Gopinath showed them a side of the dogs that the couple were unaware of.
 
 People in the city now seem to be going the extra mile to understand their pets and interpret their behaviour to give them a better life. For the young couple, it was a revealing experience. Rubin and Vinayak were asked to sit apart and not interact with the dogs. "We always thought Yavara was the dominant one and kept protecting Natsume. He tells us it is the other way round. He told us who to focus on, who was attention seeking and which one was the smarter dog," said Rubin.
 
 For Gopinath, it is about understanding the working of a dog's mind. "There is so much that a dog communicates in every move. It is about observing and understanding. I aim to find the apparent problem, remove it from the equation and then work with the dog," he said.
 
 Gopinath and his wife Nirmiti, both bankers, took to animal behaviour after they adopted a sick German Shepherd, Benzi. Since then, they have unravelled the mysteries behind other canines. Gopinath consults up to four dogs a week. He says each case presents a unique challenge. He spends a lot of time talking to the parents to see if the dog gave them signs that they missed.
 
 One of the cases he handled was of a dog that feared the colour white and would show signs of distress. The parents couldn't figure out what was wrong. Without meeting the dog, he spent time talking to the parent and realised the dog was relating white to the vet who wore white. "I simply asked them to remove any white object in the house first. Then, taught them to slowly introduce the colour to the dog in a manner that wouldn't frighten it," he said.
 
 While many parents go to behaviourists for basic training, it is the challenging cases of aggression and distress that put their skills to test.
 
 Krishna Kumar, 45, of Royapuram, has been a behaviourist for 15 years. He only takes advanced cases of aggression and behaviour issues. A German Shepherd that he worked with came to him with aggression issues. 
 
 "It was OK with women but would charge and bite if a male approached him. It took me three to four months to work on the dog. Speaking to the parents, I realised that the earlier owner was a woman. She she let the dog out, men passing by would abuse it. The memory stuck," Kumar said.
 
