Panaji: Notions that   are the big bullies of Indian football couldn’t be further from the truth. At least in the context of the   final against Goa on Sunday.
 
  If anything, going by the composition of the squad, the 31-time champions are actually gross underdogs. And, viewed in perspective, must draw sympathetic support from the neutral fan.
  
  Goa, helped by the I-League pull-out crisis have as many as nine players from India’s AFC-structured professional league. As for Bengal? Coach   categorically states: “I have no player who has played at any national competition, be it the Under-16 or 19, let alone the Santosh Trophy itself.”
  
  “I have natural talent in my team. But it is raw, very raw talent. And the team is very low on experience,” Banerjee said.
  
  And, much in contrast to the sombre and cynical mood that pervades the “archaic event” that the Santosh Trophy is often dismissed as, Banerjee believes that the tournament has value.
  
  “It is an inter-state championship and I believe it is a feeder of raw talent to Indian football,” the 56-year-old former coach of the national Pre-Olympic team.
  
  He draws cheer from, not just his team’s doughty performance on the way to the final, but also the interest in five of his hitherto incognito players that a Railways coach in Hyderabad has shown.
  
  The current Bengal squad comprises a clutch of players in the Calcutta First Division League. All playing the game from the bottom of their hearts.
  
  Just two players hold jobs, revealed Banerjee. The 24-year-old Rana Gharami, captain and a cool, dependable defender is one. The other is 21-year-old Shaikh Faiaz, a forward who has caught the eye here in Goa. The duo are employed by the state government.
  
  Goalkeeper Sankar Roy has kept his goal intact for 480 minutes in open play including the gruelling semifinals against Mizoram won on sudden-death penalties. With “God-given height” as Banerjee puts it, Roy holds Bengal’s prospects in good stead going into Sunday’s ordeal by fire against a charged-up Goa, who, I-League players et al have struck timely form with a 2-1 win over Kerala in the semifinals.
  
  Along with Roy,   is Banerjee’s key to victory and the coach is pleased to have convinced the striker to move to Mohammedan Sporting from Minerva Academy in Punjab.
  
  Bengal may be low on experience but Banerjee counts on his boys’ spirit to fight and a sense of discipline that sees his instructions followed to a T.
  
  Sunday will tell whether his unit will go a long way from raw material to a finished product.
