CHENNAI: Police have arrested a nine-member gang from Tirunelveli who robbed women at knifepoint in city beauty parlours.

 Apolice officer said  , 27, Shankar, 22, Gopi, 24,  , 24, Essaki Muthu, 29, Vinoth Kumar, 34, Shanmugham, 35, Shabir, 35, and Mohammad Imran, 29, were all from Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district. They rented rooms in localities like Vadapalani, narrowed down on potential targets in at least seven neighbourhoods, including Ramapuram and Arumbakkam, and went on a robbing spree.
 
 Investigators said they caught the prime accused when a special team headed by Royala Nagar inspector Pushparaj was conducting vehicle checks. Pandian took to his heels when he saw policemen checking vehicles at Valsaravakkam. They chased and caught him. During interrogation, Pan dian revealed that he and his relatives were staying in a Vadapalani lodge, from where the gang operated.
 
 Police launched a hunt for the rest of the gang on a complaint from a beauty parlour in Kothari Nagar, Ramapuram, where a three-member gang robbed clients of their jewels at knifepoint.
 
 “The gang members were in jail till their release on December 24,“ an investigating officer said. “They were imprisoned for similar offences in Koyambedu and adjoining localities last year.“
 
 The gang picked beauty parlours because there were few, if any, men in the vicinity. “They said the women were easy targets as they were receiving facials and massages and none of them could identify the robbers,“ the officer said. “They also made sure the beauty parlours they identified did not have security cameras.“
 
 The clientele of the beauty parlours wore expensive jewellery and usually carried a good deal of cash, making them prime targets for the robbers.
 
 Kommbaiah Pandian owned a spa in Vadapalani two years ago, where police busted a prostitution racket, the officer said. Anti-vice squad sleuths arrested him and shut down the spa.
 
 The gang members disposed of the jewellery in their hometown through people they knew. They used motorcycles that they brought from Tirunelveli so it would be harder for police to track them.
 
 Investigators seized five sovereigns of gold jewellery and seven cellphones from them. They also confiscated `10,000 from the gang.
 
