NAGPUR: With   set to ban entry of   on Sitabuldi road from February 1, shopkeepers under the banner of   have decided to oppose the move. “Shopkeepers have decided not to pay any taxes to the NMC until it revokes its decision,” said the Association President Chandrakant Raghatate here on Saturday.

 The NMC’s   (TVC) will earmark hawkers’ zone on Sitabuldi main road on January 30 as it has already allowed hawking on this busy road. 
 
 Addressing a press conference, Raghatate said Sitabuldi Residents Association (SRA) too has joined the Merchants Association to oppose the civic body’s decision to allow hawkers to do business on Sitabuldi main road and a delegation will soon meet municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar in this regard. The Association has already filed a fresh writ petition in the Nagpur bench of  . According to them, the hearing on the case will be on January 30. 
 
 The NMC, while creating hawkers’ zones, has declared Sitabuldi main road as one of the hawking zones. Questioning the move, Raghatate pointed out in the past the NMC had declared the Sitabuldi road as no-hawking zone and it cited ‘chaos’ as one of prime reasons for not allowing hawking. However, now the town vending committee has declared the same stretch as hawking zone. The NMC’s decision defies its own logic. 
 
 Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce secretary Sanjay Agrawal wondered what perhaps prompted the NMC to allow hawking as neither the road has been widened nor the vehicular movement reduced. Apart from NVCC, the Merchants Association too has termed the entire process illegal. According to them, NMC is merely regularizing wherever hawkers do business right now. Many proposed hawking zones were no-hawking zones as these being very narrow roads. However, hawkers are not ready to leave the stretch. 
 
 President of SRA Arti Hedao claimed that hawkers in Sitabuldi have ruined the life of residents of the locality. They not only block the traffic but also indulge in eve teasing. “Not only NMC is ignoring our plight, even traffic police is turning a blind eye,” she said. Banning the entry of four-wheelers on this road will also put residents into hardships, she said. 
 
