BAREILLY: The district food marketing department has set a target of purchasing 3.02 lakh metric   with the help of its 64 WPPs in Pilibhit district operating from April 1. The department, in a bid to aid its wheat procurement target has now started sending information regarding wheat purchase to farmers on their mobile phones so that they can directly reach the nearest   point (WPP) to sell their produce.
 
  It is for the first time that even before the farmers   their crop, the administration has set up 64 WPPs across the district. They have also provided a list of these purchasing points to the village  . On Tuesday, the food commission held a meeting of district food marketing officers asking them to meet their targets this year. Officials were instructed to pay Rs 10 per quintal or more to farmers who bring clean wheat to the purchasing points. Noticeably, this year the government has set the   price of wheat at Rs 1,625 per quintal.
  
  “Bareilly produces about 7 lakh metric tonnes of wheat. Usually, farmers bring only 60% of their produce to the market while rest they keep with them for their personal use and to sell when the prices are up in October. So, this time we have set a target of 3 lakh metric tonnes for purchase. Payments will be made through RTGS directly to the farmers’ accounts. Besides, this time have started sending bulk messages to farmers informing them about the nearest WPP for them and other important information. We are also asking public representatives like gram panchayat members to inform the farmers about WPP,” Yadav added.
  
  District food marketing officer, SK Yadav told TOI, “Sixty-four WPPs were made operational on April 1, while farmers started thrashing their crops from April 4. Within two days, we purchased around 700 metric tonnes of wheat. After the downpour on Tuesday night, there is some moisture in the crop. Thrashing will fully start only after a couple of days.”
  
  Of the 64 WPPs, 24 have been established in seven mandis across the district. According to the food marketing department, National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) and UP Sahakarita Sangh will set up more than 25 purchasing points in the district once the thrashing starts in full swing.
  
