KHAGARIA: In his seventh leg of ‘Nischay Yatra’, Bihar CM   on Thursday urged PM   to order   in all BJP-ruled states in order to create a “favourable environment” for   in the country.

 “I thank the PM for praising prohibition in Bihar. I also praise him (PM) for effectively implementing liquor ban in his home state Gujarat during 12 years of his chief ministership,” he said addressing a ‘Chetna Sabha’ here.
 
 During th 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh in Patna, PM Modi had lauded Kumar for effectively implementing prohibition in the state and appealed to all political parties and social groups to join the campaign to ensure its success.
 
 Kumar, whose government declared Bihar a dry state in April last year, has taken it on a mission mode and is moving across Bihar through his ‘Nishchay Yatra’ to get feedback from people on banning trade and consumption of alcohol.
 
 He also referred to the praise by Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama for prohibition.
 
 The Dalai, who is in Bodh Gaya in connection with Kalachakra Puja being attended by devotees of 80 countries, has praised Kumar for trying to ensure complete ban on liquor and urged followers not to touch it.
 
 The CM said prohibition has not only brought about a social change, particularly in rural areas, but has also led to economic prosperity in the state. Crime rate has significantly declined while people are now spending their money on good things, which in turn is yielding revenue for the state more than what it used to get from the sale of liquor, he said and added anyone could visit any place of his or her choice and see for self how family life had improved in the state.
 
 “Wherever I go, women share pleasant experiences of their lives as a result of the ban on liquor,” Nitish said and called upon people to take part in the human chain to be formed on January 21 to express their support to prohibition.
 
 The CM also inspected the  , located on the collectorate campus. The centre is meant to receive complaints from people, which will be looked into in a fixed time frame.
 
 Earlier, Nitish inaugurated a Panchayat Sarkar Bhawan at Telauchh village under Chautham block of the district.
 
 
