TRICHY: The city corporation has decided to lay roads in several vital stretches at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. This follows   from residents about the   resulting in accidents. This is the first time that road works will be carried out after the term of the elected council got over a few months ago. 

 Corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said that funds allocated under the   would be utilised for laying the roads on stretches that had not been relaid for a long time besides those that are badly damaged. In Srirangam zone, the upcoming areas of Ambedkar Nagar including   and Nelson Road in ward number 4 would be laid. Bitumen road would be laid on the damaged stretch at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. 
 
 It has been a bumpy ride for residents from Bheema Nagar and Morsingpet as there were no traces of a bitumen road in over a km of Heber Road. The whole stretch, right from the district court to the railway bridge, will be relaid with bitumen at an estimated cost of Rs 50 lakh. 
 
 “We had lost hope on the renovation of Heber Road after the local body elections were postponed. It was convenient to air our grievance to councillors but in their absence we were reluctant to take our complaints to officials,” said S Visalatchi, a resident of Bheema Nagar. Now that the roads were going to be laid, she expected them to be of top quality instead of being laid for namesake.
 
 Being one of the prominent roads in K Abhishekapuram zone, Heber Road connects Palakkarai to Cantonment area. Similarly, Srinivasan Nagar 6th main and 7th main roads too would be relaid. Bitumen roads will be laid at a cost of Rs 25 lakh in the Ponmalai zone which includes areas like Sesashayi Nagar, V K Street and Vallalar Nagar Road. This apart, Vasanth Nagar Second Street would also be relaid at a cost of Rs 25 lakh. K Abhishekapuram zone which has the core city areas of Thennur and Thillai Nagar junction will also see bitumen road. With the city corporation receiving sanction, work on the roads is expected to start in the next couple of weeks.
 
