The Mumbai Police had identified around 15 no-selfie points across the city last year, but it seems to have done little to curb the number of selfie-related deaths. After the recent incident at  , BT decided to visit the spot. And, much to our dismay, we found that the mishap has not dampened Mumbaikars’ love for   (killer selfies) even during the monsoon when the seas are rough and unpredictable.

 
 
 While Mumbai has many no-selfie zones, the recent incident at Marine Drive has once again highlighted the issue of killfies. Just a few days ago, a 17-year-old girl — Preeti Pise — and her friends were clicking photos on the Marine Drive Promenade, when a huge wave suddenly hit her, pulling her into the water. While Preeti couldn’t be saved, a friend who jumped in to rescue her also almost drowned. The tragic incident should have rung a warning bell to the public, but the number of people taking selfies on the spot has almost doubled. We caught citizens walking on the wall in the rain, ignoring not only the high tide, but also the cops who have been deployed there.
 
 
 Since the accident last week, the number of selfie lovers at Marine Drive hasn’t abated, affirms Marine Drive Police Station officials. “Apart from a 24x7 patrol van, we have deployed beat marshalls, who keep a vigil right from the beginning of Marine Drive till Charni Road Bridge. They keep issuing warnings against walking on the wall or taking selfies standing on it. We have been requesting people to pose on the pavement instead, but citizens don’t seem to understand. How much can we control them? The minute our backs are turned, they climb back on the wall. The police is doing its job,” says station officer PSI Rathod. 
 
 Most citizens are undeterred by the risk of getting swept away into the sea. “Toh kya hua? Hum har saal yahi kartey hain,” says 15-year-old Nitesh Shah and his pals. Some others were plain unaware. Abir Kevlani from Ghatkopar, who was taking selfies on the wall along with a friend until the police issued them a warning, tells us, “We have come all the way for some monsoon mazaa. We just wanted this picture for my social media page. We didn’t know anything about the recent death.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Want to cast aside the cops’ warning and walk on the Marine Drive wall to take that selfie? Well, be prepared for your parents and college principals to be informed. The Mumbai Police, whose warnings have been falling on deaf ears, especially when it comes to college-going couples, is planning to contact the violators’ family and teachers. 
 
  Says Senior police inspector Vilas Gangwane, “Even after the recent selfie-related death, people, especially college students, venture out on the wall. What is even more alarming is that they do this during high tide. Our announcements are clearly being ignored. So, we have now decided to take down the names and addresses of these youngsters and complain to their parents. We will also inform their college principals. This way, their families will know what they are up to and hopefully, the errant behaviour will stop. We want everyone to enjoy the rains and have fun, but not at the cost of their lives.” 
 
 
 
 The rocks at the Bandstand Promenade
 Rocks behind Carter Road Promenade
 The Sunset Point at Mahim Fort
 
 
 Marine Drive Promenade
 
 Sion Fort
 Worli Fort
 
 
 
 
 India has topped the list of countries that report selfie-related deaths. Across Metros, cops have been instructing people to avoid dangerous locations and situations while taking selfies.
 
 
 In another incident last week, a 20-year-old boy fell into the sea near the Gateway of India at 2.30 am. He was sitting on the edge of the wall when the wave hit him. Fortunately, he was rescued by alert patrolling officers. 
 
 
