By   

 ‘Great minds discuss ideas, average minds discuss events, and small minds discuss people’. Thus goes a quote attributed to  , the former American First Lady. She was obviously not familiar with   people. Going by her definition, we are small minds forced to be both great and average from time to time, in the line of duty. 
 
 We ad folk live and die on the strength of our ideas. If we don’t have an idea, we don’t eat. It’s as simple as that. Events are equally important to us, providing, as they do, grist to the advertising mill. But what we love above all is people. We love to observe them, discuss them and dissect them to see what makes them tick. And as an industry, we are blessed because we have the most interesting specimens of the human race within our own ranks. 
 
 Advertising attracts the strangest and most wonderful people. A fact I discovered on my very first day as a trainee copywriter. I was sitting in a quiet corner waiting to be assigned a task when at around 11.30 am, a young — and large — man staggered into office. ‘Hello’ he bellowed, at no one in particular. He then looked around blearily, sat down at a workstation, put his head on the desk and promptly went off to sleep. He was obviously a tad intoxicated and I was fairly scandalised by the whole thing. But everyone else seemed totally unaffected and went about their tasks as if this was quite normal. 
 
 In about half an hour, the young man woke up and looked about him interestedly. I watched with alarm as he got up and walked towards a fire extinguisher. With a merry chuckle he picked it up and proceeded to spray its contents all over his colleagues in the studio, much to their consternation. Two big men from the finance department got up, overpowered him and locked him up in a cabin. By now I was petrified. After an hour or so, the young man banged on the locked cabin door and asked to be let out. The big finance guys went up to ascertain the level of the young man’s sobriety. 
 
 Satisfied, they opened the cabin. He walked out none the worse for wear, waved a courtly goodbye at everyone and strolled out of the main door not to be seen for the rest of the day.
 
 A kindly account management person, seeing fear in my eyes, assured, “Don’t worry, he’s quite a nice guy. I will introduce you to him tomorrow. He’s your boss, by the way.” 
 
 I landed up in office the next day and with much trepidation awaited the arrival of my new boss. He entered at 11.30 am, on the dot again, and thankfully appeared sober this time. He went straight to the branch head’s attractive secretary and began to flirt outrageously with her. The lady was obviously used to his attentions and brushed them off with practised ease. After tunelessly singing a sad song about his broken heart at the top of his voice, my boss went and sat at his cubicle. The kindly account management person came up to me and said, “Now seems to be a good time to introduce you to your boss. Come along.”
 
 My new boss looked me up and down as I stood nervously next to his desk. “You want to be a writer, eh?” he asked. “Yes sir,” I replied.
 
 “Don’t call me sir,” he snarled. “I’m probably younger than you. Also better looking.” He didn’t seem too impressed with me. “Do you drink?” he said, changing the subject.
 
 “Yes I do.”
 
 Suddenly, his eyes lit up. “Then you’ll do alright as a writer,” he said, with a hint of approval. It’s been two decades since that conversation. So he wasn’t wrong.
 
 The author is executive creative director, Ogilvy Group of Companies 
 
 
