KOLKATA: The   government has come up with an operation guideline on the ‘Green Cities Mission’ for all the urban local bodies of the state. The government has allocated Rs 456 crore from the state plan fund this year for the mission.

 State urban development and municipal affairs department minister   held a meeting with the mayors, chairpersons and other representatives of all municipalities and municipal corporations last week where the matter was discussed. The state government had launched the mission on November 29 last year for developing cities and municipal towns with clean and green spaces. The operational guidelines have been issued in terms of the state cabinet approval.
 
 The mission has several components the urban local bodies need to follow to develop green cities. The government has listed the projects in several categories and has given stress on beautification and greening, developing renewable energy, sustainable public transport, preservation of heritage sites, being technology efficient by developing IT-enabled citizen services, conserving waterbodies, developing public grievance management and better quality of life for all residents in a sustainable manner.
 
 According to the guidelines, cleaning and beautification programmes should be a priority for all urban local bodies to follow in their respective areas. The ‘Nirmal Bangla’ scheme should be properly followed so there is no littering and adequate garbage bins should be placed in public space. There should be adequate public pay-and-use toilets, visual pollution like hoardings and overhead cables along with air and sound pollution must be controlled, the guideline mentions.
 
 The urban local bodies have been instructed that while making plans, the citizens may be consulted through ward committees or residents welfare associations. The guidelines stresses on encouraging setting up cycle tracks and cycle stands as last mile connectivity, to introduce e-rickshaws, waste water recycling and rainwater harvesting and to adopt energy-saving light sensors.
 
 
