New Delhi:   government’s finance department will take up the first review of goals achieved by various departments under the first ever   budget from July 19 to July 21.   has written to all ministers, asking them to assess reports by each of their departments before their scheduled meeting with him, the chief minister and finance department.

 “I will now review the achievements/targets under outcome   for the first quarter from July 19 to July 21, 2017. The planning department has identified some critical indicators out of the total indicators under the outcome budget 2017-18 based on the priority schemes and programmes of the departments. You may like to suggest addition or deletion in the list of critical indicators,”   has said in his letter.
 
 The minister said that all departments had been asked to submit their reports to the finance department earlier in the month. “The ministers will review these reports pertaining to their departments and then come for the meeting with the CM and me. The review will start with my own departments on July 19, along with law minister Kailash Gahlot. This will be followed by a review of departments under Satyendar Jain on July 20 and the remaining three ministers, Gopal Rai, Imran Hussain and Rajendra Pal Gautam on July 21,” Sisodia told TOI.
 
 The government has identified indicators on the basis of which the progress made by various departments will be ascertained. Out of 1,938 indicators spread over eight sectors — education, health, social security & welfare, urban development & housing, water supply & sewerage, infrastructure, environment & forests and others — 605 have been classified as critical indicators and Sisodia said that submitting information on these parameters is mandatory. 
 
 “We have so far restricted ourselves to reviewing projects but not their outcomes. This will be the first review to see the impact of work undertaken by various departments. Within my own departments, I can see that while we have achieved some success, there is a lot of work on which there is little to see on ground even though substantial has been achieved behind the screen. For instance, PWD has carried out a survey on requirement for staffrooms but work on ground is yet to start,” he said.
 
