MOHALI: With the monsoon approaching, the uncovered live and loose electricity wires hanging from electricity poles, in streets and roads, particularly in congested localities of the town, are posing a serious threat. The residents alleged that the authorities concerned seem to be waiting for a tragedy to strike before progressing work in areas like   and the areas, which are less than 50 feet away from the Zirakpur municipal corporation building.

  visited several congested and old localities of the town and it was seen that caps of the electricity junction boxes of most of the street lights were missing. The same applied for electricity meter hubs in which a minimum of eight electricity meters were installed and they also lacked lids. According to sources the lids are open from many places, which in turn expose live wires and pose as a threat to life. The transformers and naked wires on electricity junction boxes were barely 3 feet high, making kids passing on bicycle or playing in the street vulnerable to the danger of electrocution. 
 
 Safety switches or fire extinguishers were nowhere to be found in or around the boxes in Zirakpur. Residents allege one can find uncovered wires hanging loose everywhere except for VIP areas. 
 
 MLA Derabassi, assembly N K Sharma said, “We are going to start a process under which all the electricity cables will go underground and we have passed the agenda of the same, and tenders will soon be floated.”
 
 Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Zirakpur, said the uncovered electricity wires hanging from the poles increase the chances of accidents. He alleged that despite being aware of the problem, the department of electricity has turned a blind eye. Singh further added, “We have been living here for the past many years but no one has ever bothered to cover or remove these naked wires. The society residents have complaint a number of times but to no avail.”
 
 On June 19, a woman was electrocuted at Balongi while extracting rainwater from her house, when electric current ran though the pole. According to sources, there has been a need of electric wires in Balongi as the old ones have worn out. The electricity poles and the wires on them have been reaching the ground, which stands as a major threat to animals, kids, or adults, especially during the rainy season.
 
