CHENNAI: Generations met and mingled seamlessly at Loyola’s alumni congress this year. Giggles and anecdotes filled the air during the customary October 2 get together, when about 1,000 alumni from as far as 1964-66 batch shared their memories.

 Since several ‘boys’ had now turned senior citizens, the college had arranged a golf cart to take the youths of yore and their family members on a mini-safari around the college campus.
 
 A family of an 1964-66 batch student, Gerald, hailing from Dharmapuri, came for the reunion programme with his granddaughter and wife. He sported a white shirt with the Loyola logo , and went to his classroom. He occupied the seat which used to be his during his college days while his granddaughter watched on.
 
 Another 1982-1984 batch student, Thirupathi Raja, who works as a manager in the State Bank of India, Besant Nagar, said, "Every year, the number of old students visiting the campus on October 2 keeps increasing. We thank the organisers for coming out with such a novel idea of inviting all past students of   on this day." 
 
 "Everything is ours, and everything is not ours," said a 1982-84 alumnus Venus, a businessperson. "We, along with our friends, started grouping together to discuss our fading memories of our college days. Earlier we used to meet often at different locations, but nothing like meeting on the campus itself. As we worked with the college management and decided to meet every October 2, more and more people started coming down to the college," said Venus.
 
 Chennai city police commissioner A K Viswanathan, who was also an alumnus of 1982-1984 batch said, "It’s a wonderful day for me, as I could meet all my long-lost friends and hostellers who had stayed with me during college days."
 
 Businessman Sudhakar Jayaraj, also a batch mate of Viswanathan, walked and ran like a kid from one corner to another shaking hands with every visitor who came his way. His hostelmate Ravi, who runs a canteen in the Loyola College, said, "I eagerly wait for this moment for all 364 days a year."
 
 During Monday’s programme, an endowment lecture in memory of Shyam Kothari, former president of   (LAA), was delivered. Chief executive officer of Doha Bank in Qatar R Seetharaman participated in the meeting. Sudhakar said, "It has become a business meet, too, for many of our friends. This congress has helped me to meet people from different portfolios, and employed across the sphere."
 
