MUMBAI: As the dust settles on the bitter and acrimonious campaign for the BMC elections after decades-old allies   and   decided to contest separately, the question on everybody’s mind is what is the future of the state government?

 Education minister and senior BJP leader Vinod Tawde told TOI there was no threat to the stability of the government. “No doubt we had an aggressive campaign against each other during the  , but I don’t think the Shiv Sena will quit the government. It has political compulsions to stay with the government,’’ he said.
 
 But transport minister  , who is from the Sena, was non-committal, and pointed out that party chief Uddhav Thackeray had declared on January 26 he will march on a new path. “At a public meeting, Uddhavji had declared that henceforth there will be no alliance with any party as Sena has chosen a new path,’’ he said. 
 
 A senior BJP minister said CM Fadnavis had already worked out an action plan if the Sena withdraws from the government. “Maharashtra will not witness a situation for mid -term polls,’’ he said, adding that he would not be surprised if the Sena pulls out after the mayoral elections. 
 
 “The level of campaigning during the BMC polls was so low that now it will be difficult for the two parties to patch up. If the Shiv Sena withdraws support, the BJP is prepared to tackle the political situation,’’ he said.
 
 The government aims to survive on the support of smaller parties and independents. “We have 122 members in the House of 244 and require 144 members for a simple majority. Shiv Sena has 64 members. If the Sena withdraws support, we will manage to secure a clear majority. Worst come to worst, we are prepared for President’s rule. Then we will not be surprised if quite a large number of legislators from different parties join the BJP to save the government,’’ the cabinet member said.
 
 NCP spokesperson   scoffed at talks of the Sena walking out of the government. The aggressive campaigning during the BMC polls was a temporary phase for both Shiv Sena and BJP. “Don’t be surprised if the BJP and the Sena join hands for the mayoral elections,’’ he said.
 
