Nagpur: J-pop (Japanese pop) echoed through the premises of Chitnavis Centre lawns during the second cosplay convention ( )which kick-started here, on Sunday. Several youngsters comprising gaming enthusiasts, animation lovers, geeks, artists, photographers, cosplayers, anime or manga lovers, TV show fans and comic book fans — all descended on the venue in large numbers to partake in the event.

 Organized by members of Nagpur Anime Club (NAC), the event was first held in 2015. “This time we wanted to make it bigger and better,” said Samarth Thakral, organizer and founder of NAC.
 
 “The plan is to relive childhood. We have attended several conventions which keep happening in metro cities. It is a big thing there. Why cannot Nagpur have it too? I wanted people to know of the concept. It is a new thing in the city,” he said, adding, “The idea is to get out of reality, to be someone you are not and get to be your favourite superhero. This is a festival for fans, by the fans,” he said.
 
 Cosplay competition was the highlight of the festival. Cosplay is the practice of dressing up as a character from a film, book, or video game, especially one from the Japanese genres of manga or anime. This cos con drew influence from the Japanese festival of Natsumatsuri. Karthik Naidu, a student, was dressed up as Deathstroke.
 
 Monalisa Panjwani, an MBBS student, was dressed as the second witch from Shakespeare’s Macbeth. “I am an avid lover of literature. This event is great. However, the events are being delayed,” she said. Nakul Tijare, a student trainer, was dressed as Aladdin for the cosplay. 
 
 “I wanted to have mixed genres. As a result, we included WWE, Beyblade, Fifa and Karaoke,” said Thakral. The daylong event boasted of an art competition of one’s favourite superheroes, a quiz competition by Shah Rukh Khan Fans Club, among other things.
 
 Aorin Shariyari, a professional cosplayer from Delhi, was invited to judge the event. Shariyari was dressed as Pickachu and had World of Warcraft characters Mcree and Jaina, Deadpool, Spiderman as her counterparts. Gaming, geeky merchandize, props, food and books formed part of the stalls for the event. Samarth founded Nagpur Anime Club in August 2012 to bring like-minded people together.
 
 
