MUMBAI: More than two months after the body of a boy aged about 12 was found stuffed in a   at Lokmanya Train Terminus at Kurla, six members of a family from   have been arrested in connection with the murder. The boy worked at a bangle-making unit run by the family . On Monday , TOI had reported that the case had been solved. It was the brand of the suit case, in which the body was found, that helped solve the case, besides an anonymous phone call which gave police a tip about the people who had bought the suitcase.

 The body of the boy , Randhir Sahani from Bilanpur in Bihar, was found in a suitcase at the terminus on January 7.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Ranvijay Sahani (20), his father Shivnath (45) and mother Renu (35) and three of their relatives -Krishna (28), Ramanand (45) and Vinay (33).
 
 The police said that Ranvijay had killed Randhir over a minor tiff at work. On January 7, Ranvijay had scolded Randhir for his “lazy“ behaviour at work. They had got into an ar gument on the mezzanine floor of the factory . As the argument heated up, Ranvijay allegedly tried to smother the “sallow-looking“ Randhir. The next morning, the boy did not wake up to go to work and that's when it came to light that he had died, said the police.
 
 Ranvijay alerted his parents who took the three relatives into confidence to help dispose of the body . Ranvijay and Krishna went to a store in Malad to purchase a suitcase where they were caught on camera.
 
 “After stuffing the body in the suitcase, five of the accused took a cab to the station, hoping to abandon the body on Poori Express, a Bihar-bound train,“ said senior police inspector Vijay Khair. “But they chickened out on reaching the scanning machine at the station. They feared the body would be detected by the scanner.“
 
 During the probe, the police contacted the distributor for the suitcase brand, Travelgo, who led them to the store in Malad, said additional commissioner of police Manoj Lohiya.
 
 At this store, the police got footage of the two men -Ranvijay and Krishna-buying the suitcase. On circulating the images, an anonymous caller informed inspector Khair about the identity of the buyers, leading them to the Sahanis.
 
 One accused visited the boy's family in Bihar and told them that he died a natural death and his last rites were done in Mumbai.The family was given Rs 1.11lakh, said deputy commissioner of police Sahaji Umap.
 
 
