PATNA: The   and district police officials are tight-lipped over the photographs and a selfie of former   Mohammad Shahabuddin which went viral on social media on Saturday because the don was still in jail.

 None of the officials is ready to tell anything about the latest controversy over the photographs of Shahabuddin, convicted for the murder of brothers Satish and Girish Raj. No one was ready to say on record whether the former RJD MP has tonsured his head and trimmed his moustache after going back to the jail on September 30 last year. 
 
 Questions have been raised over the availability of cellphone to Shahabuddin inside jail as his photographs show him donning a grey overcoat, denim trousers and leather shoes with a tonsured head and trimmed moustache.
 
 “We are investigating the matter whether the photographs were clicked inside the jail or outside it and when they were snapped,” said Siwan Sadar SDPO Kartikeya Sharma. He, however, refused to comment on the appearance of the Siwan strongman and how he was looking these days.
 
 Even the jail administration was also not ready to reveal if Shahabuddin was looking the same as he is seen in the photographs which went viral. Jail superintendent   claimed the photographs might be edited. The administration conducted several raids on the jail premises after the photographs went viral. Four cellphones with sim cards and two chargers were recovered from jail inmate Anil Singh, Bharat Singh and Masoom Khan. An FIR has been lodged against them.
 
 Siwam DM Mahendra Kumar did not respond to the TOI’s phone call. The cellphone of SP Saurabh Sah was also switched off. 
 
 The former MP is lodged in ward number 18 with seven other inmates after the Supreme Court cancelled his bail granted by the Patna high court on September 7 in the murder of Rajeev Roushan, the sole eyewitness of the killing of his two brothers. 
 
 Slain Siwan journalist Rajdeo Ranjan’s widow Asha Ranjan has also moved the Supreme Court with an appeal to shift Shahabudidn to Tihar Jail in Delhi as the state government had no control over him and he could influence her husband murder case which was being probed by the CBI. Ranjan’s wife also claimed that her husband was killed by the henchmen of Shahabuddin.
 
 
