When the first few images of the leading ladies of   —Shanvi Srivastava and   — emerged, what struck most was how vibrant their styling was in terms of design and hues. “I like dressing up my actors,” quips director  , when asked about the unique mix-and-match patterns and accessories that the two of them sport, only to quickly add that the credit goes to his wife,  . “I have worked with Prakash in the past, but not as extensively as I have on Tarak. In fact, I was not his first choice to style the heroines and he was in talks with a few designers. Prakash was clear about how he wanted them to be styled, but the monetary aspect was just not working out with the designers he spoke to. As the actual shoot dates approached, he got frantic and that’s when I chipped in and offered to help,” explains Thashwini.
Even though she holds no formal training in designing, Thashwini says that her personal interest in elements of style helped her on this project. “I sketched a few outfits and referred to designs by others to mix and match the wardrobe of the two heroines. I had worked with designer   Hegde in the past for my personal collection and know that she understands my perception of style and executes it to perfection. So, I spoke to her about Tarak and the two characters, and we put together all the clothes that both Shanvi and Sruthi wear in the film. In fact, working with them was much easier than with Prakash, because there were times when he would outright say that he did not like our designs and that he wanted something better,” she adds. 
 Pratiksha explains further, "Prakash and Thashwini were very clear about what they wanted, so it was easy for me to work with them. For Sruthi, who plays a very traditional soft-spoken character, we gave a lot of tunics, skirts with blouses and palazzos with kurtas. With Shanvi, though, we have really gone bizarre, because her role is such that she is very outgoing and crazy. For this, we did a total Indo-Western look, using south Indian fabrics for western silhouettes. We have paired Mysore silk with a formal blazer, white shirt and tie, as well as a Bandhini palazzo with a half skirt to go with a tank top and leather jacket, and so on and so forth.”
 So, considering that this collaboration happened because Thashwini was looking at helping her husband, what was the pay-off for her? “I get to see my name in the credit role,” laughs Thashwini, adding, “Who knows, this may just turn out to be my portfolio to more work in films.”
 
