PUNE: After 32 years as a  ,   feels now is her time. With only newcomers in the fray, and 50% of the seats reserved for women, the 54 year-old from Katraj is optimistic of bagging a Congress ticket.

 Riding a wave of confidence, Nair has started campaigning and even enlisted professionals to formulate her campaign strategy .
 
 “I have held positions in the Congress party at the local and state levels for three decades,“ Nair said. “People know me and my work. I will finally be able to realise my dream of contesting an election on a party ticket,“ says Nair, who had lost as an independent candidate in the 2012 elections.
 
 Like Nair, many other women are trying their luck, attending interviews at the party offices.
 
 An 80-year-old social worker brimming with confidence, a pregnant woman who had to be dissuaded because of her due date, party workers, entrepreneurs and professors, the aspirants are from across the spectrum.Their ages range from 25 to 60.
 
 “There are really good (women) candidates from all fields. We will have a tough time selecting the right candidate,“ said  .
 
 After   issued a diktat to select candidates who “chase not politicians but people“, the party is focusing on the “elective merit“ of the candidate, with capability , accessibility, work and knowledge of the area being the key factors.
 
 “We do not want to make any mistakes as we stand a good chance to win these elections, considering our win in the council elections,“ said Kulkarni.
 
 In a refreshing change, Kulkarni said husband-wife pairs are planning to contest, with the wife taking the lead -a marked change from last elections.
 
 MLC and Shiv Sena spokesperson Neelam Gorhe said they got a good response from women candidates. For the Sena, selection largely depends on the aspirant's reach in the community , overall track record and work in the party . “(Aspirants) were well aware of their work and that is a welcome sign,“ she said.
 
 The view is shared by Nationalist Congress Party MP Vandana Chavan, who had joined politics in 1992, when the government declared 30% reservation for women. She says women aspirants were hard to come by in those days.“Things have changed by leaps and bounds. Now we have keen young aspirants who flaunt their choices on Facebook, (and are) well aware of their areas. They are dedicated to the area and community,“ she said.
 
