TRICHY: The district witnessed happy moments from the supporters of   and J   following the supreme court verdict against VK   and three others. The general public also seemed to heave a sigh of relief as if they had won freedom. Yet, all the five MLAs including two ministers of   from   stayed away from the people of their constituencies without seeking their opinion on their choice of chief minister. 

 The day began with a lot of tension among the people over the likely verdict in the disproportionate wealth case. However, when the order came, there was a sense of vindication visible on their faces, at justice being upheld against corrupt netas. Supporters of OPS and Deepa went on to celebrate the judgment in a big way in the city. Cadres and functionaries of J Deepa Peravai burst crackers and distributed sweets in front of Rajagopuram in Srirangam Renganathar temple in Srirangam. The constituency had a VIP status when J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister from 2011 till her conviction in DA case in September 2014. 
 
 Though most people indirectly preferred OPS as chief minister, the representatives elected by them had an opposite choice. Five MLAs of AIADMK – Vellamandi N Natarajan from Trichy east, S Valarmathi from Srirangam, R Chandrasekar from Manapparai, M Selvarasu from Musiri and Parameshwari Murugan from Mannachanallur – have opted for the Sasikala-backed Edappadi Palanisamy as their choice of chief minister. 
 
 “I don’t want to go against the party so I prefer Edappadi Palanisamy. Several people called me asking me to support OPS but these were all at the instigation of DMK,” Musiri MLA Selvarasu told TOI over phone from Golden Bay resorts in Koovathur in the evening. 
 
 Mannachanallur MLA Parameshwari Murugan also echoed the view saying that she did not receive any calls from the people of her constituency. “My choice goes to Edappadi Palanisamy who has been chosen by the party,” Parameshwari told TOT. 
 
 Opposition party functionaries welcomed the judgment but they refrained from commenting further. DMK strongman KN Nehru said that they were told not to comment on the matter now. Tamil Nadu Mutharaiyar Sangam, one of the associations representing the single largest community of Mutharaiyar in Trichy, backed OPS. “Our association welcomes the judgment convicting Sasikala in the assets case. OPS could be the choice to lead the government now. If Edappadi Palanisamy is allowed to form the government, it would be controlled by Sasikala camp behind the screen,” said its general secretary Maru Baskaran. 
 
 
