CHANDIGARH: If you are a parent and sending your child in an overloaded auto-rickshaw simply because they cost less and are quicker, you may just be risking your child's life, feel officials of UT state transport authority and schools. 

 A day after two children were hurt in a road accident involving the auto-rickshaw they were riding to school, officials of the UT state transport authority (STA) said on Wednesday that parents were to be blamed for sending their wards to school on three-wheelers  . They also expressed helplessness over the impunity with which   in the city break traffic rules, saying violations mostly did not entail a heavy fine and, so, there was no strong deterrent to stop such malpractices.
 
 On their part, parents said auto-rickshaws were a cheaper, quicker alternative to   They said while buses charged more and took a longer time to drop a child home, auto-rickshaws were quicker and cost less than half of what bus operators charged. On Tuesday, an auto-rickshaw carrying schoolchildren rammed into a tree, leaving two of its minor passengers injured. The three-wheeler was speeding and overloaded.
 
 Schools and officials of the STA, who did not wish to be named, said there should be a penalty for parents who let their children board overloaded autos. "The Motor Vehicles Act provides for penalty to the driver only. The least the parents can do is prefer other, safer modes of transport," said STA additional secretary Rajiv Tiwari, when contacted by TOI.
 
 STA officials expressed helplessness in   drivers from violating rules. They said the penalties were not heavy enough to act as a deterrent.
 
 For example, an auto-rickshaw driver is fined just Rs 1,000 for overloading the first time. In the second instance, the fine is Rs 2,000. For violating any other laws, the fine in most caes is Rs 600 for the first time. Even when it comes to speeding, the penalty is not as heavy. A driver is fined Rs 1,2000 for crossing the speed of 50km/h, that too for a subsequent offence. For the first time, the fine is only Rs 700.
 
 Tiwari said there had been an increase in the number of overloaded auto plying in the city. "We have seen a sudden increase in the use of auto-rickshaws for ferrying kids to school. Most of these three-wheelers are operating in violation of safe transportation policy," Tiwari added. "The best way to crack down on them is to impound the three-wheelers of drivers who indulge in such violations," he said.
 
 An official of  , who did not wish to be named, said auto-rickshaw drivers did not fear challans. "Why would they? The fine is equal to the payment by a child each month," the official said.
 
