PUNE: A   and fusion awaits music lovers during   — a musical carnival to be held at the New English School Ramanbaug from January 20 to 22.

 This is the 10th edition of the festival, which is held annually in memory of renowned Hindustani classical vocalist, the late  .
 
 Vasantotsav will be free and open for all, said Rahul Deshpande, vocalist and grandson of Vasantrao Deshpande, while addressing a news conference on Tuesday.
 
 This year the festival will begin with a vocal performance by Pandit Venkatesh Kumar, an exponent of Gwalior and Kirana gharana, who is known for rendition of Haridasi bhajans. It will be followed by Sangeet Manapman, a famous musical drama featuring  . 
 
 The second day will start with a vocal performance by Rekha Bhardwaj. Known for her distinctive tone, Bhardwaj is a noted playback singer. Her performance will be followed by a joint performance by flautist Ronu Mujumdar and Rahul Deshpande. 
 
 The final day will start with a performance by Kirana Gharana vocalist Anand Bhate. Also known as Anand Gandharva, he is a disciple of Bhimsen Joshi. The last performance will be a fusion session by renowned instrumentalist Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhat and famous rock band ‘Indian Ocean’. 
 
 Vasantotsav Vimarsh, a free day-long workshop, will be held at Raja Ravi Varma art gallery, Ghole Road, on January 19. Vocalist Vijay Koparkar will guide musicians, students and connoisseurs on riyaz methods and raga elaboration during this workshop. 
 
 This year’s Vasantrao Deshpande Smruti Sanman will be given to Sulabha Thakar for her contribution in the field of musicology and to renowned organ player, Rajiv Paranjape, for his creative contribution in the field of music. The award comprises a memento and Rs 51,000. The Vasantrao Deshpande Udayonmukh Kalakar will be given to Shripad Limbekar. This award comprises Rs 25,000 and a trophy. 
 
 Passes for the festival will be made available from January 14 at Balgandharva Rangmandir and Pandit Farms, Karvenagar.
 
