ALWAR: The 60-year-old self-styled ‘godman’  , who has been accused of raping a 21-year-old girl, on Friday claimed he is impotent.

 The tainted godman told cops in a statement that he consumes several natural drugs which have permanently diminished all his sexual desires. 
 
 “He has made a very bizarre claim that he used to consume some ‘jadi butti’ (natural drugs) to diminish sexual desires. He said he used to drink some juice made of the banana tree,” said the official, adding such claims have not been verified yet.
 
 Meanwhile,   police said that doctors have declared Kaushlendra Falahari Baba’s medical condition as ‘fit and out of danger’, and he was shifted to a general ward. However, the cops still could not arrest Falahari Baba due to certain ‘procedural issues’.
 
 The godman had admitted himself into a hospital after he was accused of rape by a 21-year-old.
 
 The Alwar police took the rape survivor to the tainted Baba’s Ashram on Friday for evidence and statements. “She was again taken to the spot for verification, we have recovered some jewellery, a laptop and some DVDs from the ashram,” added official.
 
 Cops said that they have tightened the security of baba, and have deployed additional five guards to foil any bid to escape. Police said they have recorded the statements of other devotees and are trying to retrieve the   footage of the ashram. Alwar police told TOI that during preliminary interrogation, the baba admitted to the fact that the girl was present inside his ashram.
 
 Police said that when they asked for the CCTV footage of the day, the ashram staff replied that CCTV’s hard-drive was not functional. The cops, however, suspect that ashram staff may try to shield the baba by destroying the evidence. “We have sent the CCTV drive to the lab to retrieve the footage,” the official added.
 
 The doctors of the private hospital where he was admitted said that the baba is out of danger and is medically fit. However, the cops did not arrest him clamming they don’t want to hurry with the case. “We don’t want to leave any loopholes and want to build a strong case which could stand the court procedures,” the official said.
 
 The police said that they have found incriminating evidence against the god-man and he may be arrested soon. “He would be placed under arrest very soon, we now have evidence which corroborates his involvement,” said an official.
 
