Coimbatore: With just one staff member in the place of eight, the   in   is  . An additional deputy superintendent of police (ADSP), two inspectors and five sub-inspectors had been sanctioned for the bureau in the city. All of them retired over the past few years, but had not been replaced with fresh recruits. An inspector who retired from the bureau was reappointed for Coimbatore city police, and the lone staff member struggles with the burden, offering little help in cracking cases. Likewise, the rural police are also struggling with a massive staff shortage in the fingerprint bureau. 

 The Tamil Nadu Fingerprint Bureau functions under the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB). Staff (sub-inspectors) for the bureau were selected through the employment office and were given three years training by fingerprint experts. After this, the staff have to take a fingerprint experts examination conducted by the Central Fingerprint Bureau. Only after clearing the exam, can the staff depose before courts in connection with crime cases. 
 
 “The sanctioned strength for the TNFB is 284. Now, it has just 50 fingerprint experts across the state. Its head office in Chennai had a strength of more than 100 in 1990, against the present 10. With little attention given to increasing the strength of the bureau, crime case investigations are affected,” said a retired fingerprint expert.
 
 Both city and rural police had enough personnel before 2008. After all of them retired, two constables from the Coimbatore city and rural police were temporarily appointed. They can lift fingerprints from the crime scene, but cannot analyse them. “A retired woman inspector (fingerprint expert) was reappointed by the government for the Coimbatore city police. Now the retired inspector analyses fingerprints in crime cases in the city,” he added.
 
 The rural police have been sending the fingerprints to experts in Erode for analysis. This takes time and delays investigation. 
 
 There was a time when burglaries and murder for gain cases were cracked easily as the department had enough fingerprint experts. If the government continues to neglect the fingerprint bureau, the entire bureau will vanish from the police department,” said another retired fingerprint expert from Chennai.
 
 
