

 CHANDIGARH: Though the dispute over   canal has gathered more political steam, there are other contentious issues including water and power sharing between Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir which are sub judice and any amicable solution by the Northern Zonal   looks unlikely. These issues came up for deliberation at the Council’s meeting on May 12 in Chandigarh. The meeting was chaired by Union home minister Rajnath Singh.
 
 As claims of Haryana and Rajasthan for share of power from hydel projects of Anandpur Sahib, Shahpur Kandi, Mukerian, Upper Bari Doab Canal Stage-II, Thein Dam and Satluj-Yamuna Link Canal projects, could not be addressed, Rajasthan filed a civil suit in the Supreme Court in 2014. 
 
 As per documents accessed by TOI, during the Council’s meeting on May 12, Punjab took a stand that “non-riparian states of Haryana and Rajasthan cannot have any claim.” Punjab cited its power sharing agreements with Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. It added that it had filed a civil suit in the Supreme Court in 2015 for the constitution of a new water tribunal for reallocation of Ravi-Beas waters. 
 
 Differing with Punjab, Haryana said that it was willing to contribute its share of Rs 480 crore for the project cost. The Supreme Court had on November 10 last year on the Presidential reference “opined that Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, 2004, is unconstitutional.” To this, the Punjab government replied, it was advisory in nature and the “Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, 2004, still holds good.”
 
 Rajasthan’s demand for allocation of 0.17 million acre feet (MAF) Ravi-Beas water through Bhakra Main Line at Nangal is also pending before the Supreme Court since 2011. Regarding transfer of the control of head works at Ropar, Harike and Ferozepur to Bhakhra Beas Management Board(BBMB), the Rajasthan High Court had on May 2, 2005, ordered Punjab to hand over head works to  . But Punjab challenged the order before Supreme Court that stayed the Rajasthan High Court order. Later Rajasthan and Haryana also filed civil suits in Supreme Court. In the May 12 meeting, it was decided to await the apex court’s verdict. 
 
 Haryana has also rejected Rajasthan’s request to supply Yamuna water at Tajewala as per the 1994 agreement. The two states have argued that since as per the 1981 agreement, Jammu and Kashmir is “not fully utilizing water against the fixed share quota of 0.690 MAF” balance water be treated as common poor water for partner states to share.
 
