In the third part of the series on Le Corbusier and Chandigarh, TOI wonders if it is time to remove some of the controls imposed on the city more than 50 years back.

 When Chandigarh came into existence, one of the town planning con trols made cycle sheds mandatory in industrial plots. Today, more than half a century later, the UT administration does not allow industrialists to use the area for any other purpose, even when no one comes to work on a bicycle.
 
 No wonder, businessmen and traders are among the most vocal critics of the bylaws that govern the city today.Man of them feel that just to ensure strict adherence to the original plan of Le Corbusier, the administration has adopted a safe and conservative approach, rather than consider smart solutions to address the problem of a growing city.
 
 But there are also those who insist that if Chandigarh has a unique character, devoid of the chaos and haphazard planning that one normally finds in other Indian cities, it is because the administration has maintained a tight clasp on its future direction. 
 
 Although the administration has allowed some changes over the years, officials often refuse to alter many building bylaws, especially in phase 1 comprising sectors 1 to 30. Industrialists are not tors 1 to 30. Industrialists are not allowed to cover the open courtyard on their plots, making them vulnerable to theft.
 
 Arun Mahajan, president, Industry Association of Chandigarh, rues the administration has not allowed them to cover the open courtyards despite police asking them to do so.
 
 
 
 The Times of India will hold a roundtable conference on the occasion of the first anniversary of Unesco's heritage status to the   on the theme, “Is It time to move beyond Le Corbusier?“, at the UT Guest House at 11.30am on Sunday. 
 
 Around 40 citizens from different walks of life will take part in the event. UT chief architect Kapil Setia, city's heritage experts Rajnish Wattas, Ajay Jagga and Diwan Manna, top businessmen Pankaj Khanna,  , Chander Verma, Charanjiv Singh, Anil Vohra, Ankit Gupta, Ashok Bansal and V S Saluja and architects Vinod Joshi and Surinder Bagga will be among those who will participate Arun Mahajan, president, Industry Association of Chandigarh, said, The administration should do away with the bylaws which have lost relevance. And, there are many such laws,“ said Mahajan.
 
 The administration had set up phases I and II of Industrial Area during the1970s on an area measuring 147 acre. The plots are governed by controls. There are 1,884 plots in both phases, of which 700 are of 1 kanal and above, while there are 443 and 180 plots measuring 10 and 15 marla, respectively . There are 381plots of 5 marla.
 
 In showrooms in sectors 7 to 30, the authorities have permitted owners to cover the second floor, but refused to change the design of brick jalis on the front and rear side.
 
 City-based architect Vinod Joshi, says, “Earlier, the top floor was used as terrace and brick jalis were meant for ventilation and privacy . But with authorities allowing residents to cover the terrace, the concept of brick jalis has become irrelevant.“ Joshi says that the administration is cagey when it comes to altering designs in phase 1. 
 
 Similarly, the administration has not done away with the concept of small windows in showrooms on  , despite allowing use of the second floor for commercial purposes. Originally , the second floor was designed for resi dential purposes. The authorities have increased the height of showrooms in some other parts of the city, whereas there is still a height restriction in showrooms in phase 1.
 
 Chandigarh   president Anil Vohra says the administration should review all the byways that have lost relevance in the modern times.
 
