It was amid a green expanse of land, illumined with pink, green, blue and yellow lights that Delhi was having its date with jazz. Ecstatic people, young and old, gathered at Nehru Park for the 7th  , organised by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. After the ceremonial lighting of the lamp, the fest was started by a French band,  . For 25 minutes, the crowd was treated to the melodious rhythm of the piano, bass and drums. Tapping and grooving, the crowd was seen swaying to the crescendos and the diminuendos. Joining them on stage next was 4 On A Swing, a band from Kolkata. The evening was brought to a close by a jazz group from Spain, Alfonso Aroca Flamenco.

  
  Lorenzo Naccarato Trio, a band from France
 
 
  
 Lorenzo Naccarato Trio, who performed in Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Pune as part of their five-city maiden international tour in India, found India to be a place that is constantly moving. Apart from the language changes with each city, they also took interest in the onion dosa, idli, parantha, palak and chana-parantha and the famous ‘cha’. Lorenzo, sharing one incident from his tour, said, "I met this tuk-tuk driver and wanted to have real cha, on the streets. So I asked him, let’s have cha together. Since he didn’t know English, he brought another man, Ravu, who was our translator. He took to me to a fantastic cha and kokora (pakora) shop. We spent good five hours together." Having been influenced by classical Italian music as well as French, Lorenzo thinks that jazz needn’t be understood, but enjoyed by everyone."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Talking about how long will jazz survive in a Bollywood obsessed country like India, Pradyuman, a member of 4 On A Swing, said, "I think that jazz is just about surviving. And it is not alone, there are Blues, Latin, classical – they have been in India since pre-Independence. But there are only a few people following it now. Park Street in Kolkata used to be full of jazz bands. It is great music, but it is now surviving only because of a few people."
 
  
  
 Members of Alfonso Aroca Flamenco, a jazz group from Spain, at the event
 
 
  
 Among the people who attended the festival was Kiara, a nine-year-old, who had come with her parents. She said, "I loved when the girl in the red dress sang Imagine. I knew that song!" Aishwarya Vishwanathan, a student, said, "I attended this festival for the first time and it felt really good to listen to all these bands playing. It was different and an experience worth remembering. It was an amazing evening." 
 
  "Jazz is like living music to me. it was an overwhelming experience with great musical content," said Sukirti Gupta, another attendee.
 
  --Vaishali.Soni@timesgroup.com
 
 
