NEW DELHI: To make city roads safer for women,   has trained and deployed   in some areas for patrolling between 5pm and 10pm. 

 The officers will not only keep a check on the areas dedicated to them, but will also engage with women and help them whenever required. “As more women are being inducted to the force now, there is a need to empower them. For that, we involved women cops in what is considered to be a male domain — patrolling. Seven women cops have been trained and four bikes have been allotted to the South Campus and RK Puram police stations. More women are undergoing training and will join soon,” said Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP I (south). 
 
 “I am used to driving a bike. So, when the seniors asked for volunteers for evening patrolling, I was among the first ones to grab the opportunity,” constable Reena told TOI. She added, “The first time when we went out, I heard a few people hooting. Some others asked me if we were riding the bike for a movie shoot. I was amused and told them that they will now see us patrolling regularly. The response was positive...that was surprising and heartening,” she added. 
 
 A senior police officer said that the women cops have been mostly patrolling in slum areas and crowded markets. He said that the yellow patrolling bikes and sirens are identified by everyone and seeing women cops on duty, people become more cautious. “People have a tendency to misbehave with male cops, but have to follow the instructions given by the female cops,” he said.
 
 “I am the youngest female cop at our police station. I have never felt as thrilled and responsible at the same time. We have been patrolling in our area since last Friday and ever since then, many distressed women have approached us seeking help. We even chased away eve teasers on Tuesday night,” said constable Sangam Yadav, as she prepared for her patrolling duty at the weekly market on Church Road of RK Puram. 
 
 Narrating an incident that happened during one of her patrolling trips, Yadav said that she and three other female cops were near RK Puram Sector 7 when three women walked up to them. They were scared to go on the other side of the road as some men often stood there and passes lewd comments at them. “We thrashed one of them, and warned them not to come to that area again. Next day onwards, the men were nowhere to be seen. The group of women who had approached us thanked us for the help on Thursday,” said Yadav.
 
 Constable Birma said she feels like a celebrity during those five hours of patrol duty. “People look at me like I am a film star,” she said. “It was my first time on the patrol duty on Monday. It has been five days and I feel like I have so much more to do, so many more people to help,” she said. 
 
