Sandeep.Moudgal@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: In January 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a pit stop in Tumakuru to lay the foundation stone for Hindustan Aeronautics Limited’s (HAL) much-needed helicopter manufacturing factory. He even set a deadline of 2018 for the first chopper assembled at the unit to take wing. It’s been a year but HAL is yet to get environmental clearance for the project. On December 26 2016, the approval was stuck at the Terms of Reference (ToR) stage, with a detailed environment impact assessment (EIA) report yet to be prepared. The mega project, including a township and factory, entails an investment of around Rs 6,300 crore. The factory is scheduled to come up on a 615-acre land parcel at Bidrehallakaval, Gubbi, Tumakuru. As per the minutes of the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC), the factory has been upgraded to category ‘A’, according to an amended notification dated December 9 2016 which says any township covering an area more than 150 hectares requires a higher environmental clearance. Once a project is classified as category ‘A’, no construction work can be commenced until an approval is granted by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF), the rule says. HAL sources said though the land has been secured and initial work has commenced, some legal issues may delay the project. The legal hurdles are primarily to do with the land-related litigation. The parcel has been handed over to HAL by the state government. “Until the legal problems are sorted out, we can’t say how long it will take for us to meet the deadline. As of now, we are still aiming for the 2018 deadline set by the prime minister,” HAL sources said. Seek public opinion for Ballari project: MoEF The ministry of environment and forests has asked Jindal Steel Works (JSW) paints to seek public opinion before setting up the paint manufacturing plant, with a capacity of 200,000 KLPA, in Torangallu, Ballari. At its December 26 meeting, the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) while awarding the terms of reference (ToR), said: “The public hearing which will be conducted, and the issues raised and commitments made by the project proponent should be included in EIA/EMP report in the form of a tabular chart with the financial budget.” The project site is located at a distance of 5.7 kms from Daroji kere (pond), 100 metres from Kanigana Halla and 9.5 kms from the Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary. The cost of the project is estimated to be Rs 600 crore.