NEW DELHI: Even as the Election Commission is yet to decide the fate of 21 parliamentary secretaries appointed by  ,   on Thursday raised another issue of   against the AAP-led Delhi government. 

 The party alleged that the Delhi government appointed 11 AAP MLAs as co-chairpersons of district disaster management committees, violating the  , 2005. The Delhi government, though, refuted the allegation and said the move conformed to an order by the previous LG, Najeeb Jung. 
 
 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari has written to President Pranab Mukherjee, drawing his attention towards an application filed before him by RTI activist Vivek Garg who has sought disqualification of all the 11 MLAs. “I have requested the President to forward the matter to EC for speedy disposal. The contentions raised by the applicant are lawfully strong…it is covered under office of profit provisions,” said Tiwari.
 
 The AAP government had the MLAs on April 29, 2015. BJP alleged that the 2005 Act provided for only a local body elected representative’s appointment as co-chairman. “In absence of the chairman, the co-chairman presides over. The committee has financial powers. This a clear case of office of profit,” said former MLA Sahib Singh Chauhan.
 
 The 11 MLAs are: Sanjiv Jha (Burari), Nitin Tyagi (Laxmi Nagar), Praveen Kumar (Jangpura), Pawan Sharma (Adarsh Nagar), Sridutt Sharma (Ghonda), Rajesh Gupta (Wazirpur), Sarita Singh (Rohtash Nagar), Dinesh Mohania (Sangam Vihar), Amanatullah Khan (Okhla), Kailash Gehlot (Najafgarh) and Jarnail Singh (Tilak Nagar).
 
 Tiwari also accused the Arvind Kejriwal government of using government appointments, schemes and funds for political expansion. 
 
 Delhi government’s spokesperson Arunuday Prakash said the state followed a January 19, 2015 notification allowing them to appoint an MLA as co-chairperson. “The notification says that the co-chair can be an ‘MLA/councillor’. So there is no violation. This gazette notification pertains to the period when there was President's Rule and was brought out with the approval of then LG Najeeb Jung,” Prakash, who is the media advisor to the Delhi CM, told TOI.
 
 “In a 2008 notification on disaster management committees as well, it was mentioned that MLAs could be nominated as co-chairperson ex-officio,” Prakash added.
 
 
