JALANDHAR: Prime Minister   played up Punjabi pride on Friday in his first rally in the state at Jalandhar after assembly elections were announced and directly attacked the Congress, calling it a sinking ship that Punjabis would not like to board. He obliquely referred to AAP as the party that was defaming Punjabi youth (by making claims about drug addiction) but did not directly name the party. The Prime Minister also praised chief minister   for ensuring Hindu-Sikh unity in the state.

 Modi told the large gathering that there would not be a single citizen anywhere in the country who has not had bread made from grains produced in Punjab. “But it is very sad that some people are not discussing important political issues and instead defaming Punjab. I want to tell young men of Punjab that those who defame the state across the world should be given such punishment that they don’t dare to point an accusing finger at it in the future,” he said.
 
 “Punjab suffered a lot during terrorism,” he added. “Even in those turbulent times when Hindu-Sikh ties were strained, no one tried to defame Punjab. This election is an opportunity to punish those who defame its people.”
 
 Both Congress and AAP have been raising the issue of drug abuse in the state but AAP chief   has gone to the extent of saying that 40 lakh youths are addicts. 
 
 Taking on the Congress, he said, “Can a sinking ship take the state across (turbulent waters)? Congress is history and is on its last breath. Five years back they were making preparations to take oath in Punjab and created a perception that chief minister Badal was losing power. But people brought him back. This time too Punjab would like to see him as chief minister.”
 
 He also accused Congress of joining hands with Communists in West Bengal after opposing them for 50 years. “In UP, they took out a rath yatra and spoke against the Samajwadi Party, but when they realised there was no response from the people they joined hands with the same party. Congress has no principles,” he added.
 
 NO END TO FIGHT AGAINST BLACK MONEY
 
 Modi also played up the issue of demonetisation and said that his fight against black money and corruption would continue. “From 2012 to 2014, people would read headlines about scams. After demonetization, people can see what is coming into government coffers. My fight against political corruption will continue and this will not stop,” he said. “Those who are losing their loot wealth of last 70 years are worried.”
 
 SURGICAL STRIKES A HIT
 
 The Prime Minister added that the cross-border surgical strike had led to a sense of honour in the country. Appealing to the large presence of ex-servicemen of the state, he added that the state that was happiest after the strike was Punjab. 
 
 
