CHENNAI: Love happens easier in happy places. And, if you’re lucky, you’ll find those pair of eyes among the hundreds that coquettishly lock with yours in every circle you swirl away until the wee hours of dawn. This is how Nishant Khanderia’s   evening played out five years ago, by the end of which, the lovely woman who’d been watching him and ‘arrested’ him with her every move, decided to ask him out. A few years later, she became his wife.

 As he joined his group dressed in glitzy silver-blue kedias (a traditional garba attire for men), to dance to the night-long beat of the drum at this year’s event at Express Avenue mall — the same place where he had met his partner Kajal — Khanderia says this is the first time in five years she’s not dancing with him. "She’s at work this year," he says. 
 
 "It all comes down to the dance. There’s no Gujarati I know — no matter how old — who doesn’t like dancing the garba. It was the
 
 dance that attracted my wife and me that evening. We seemed to be in incredible sync," he says.
 
 As the Gujarati community welcomes   with this age-old tradition in various parts of the country, the atmosphere’s heady combination of high-energy music, festivity and community spirit makes it ideal for new friendships to forge — many going on to become love stories.
 
 Bhaven Davey, secretary of the Gujarat Cultural Committee in Chennai, believes that two out of six married couples in the community may have met at the dance. Davey himself fell for his now wife Bhavna at a 1995 garba at Rani Meyyammai Hall. "For me, it was love at first sight," he says. 
 
 "The tempo of the dance itself is such that it puts you in your best mood. You’re all dressed up, there’s celebration all around and because most gear up to dance for all nine nights in a row, they get to meet the same people repeatedly and get to know them," he says.
 
 Davey says the committee was formed with the exclusive goal of organising the garba in the city every Navratri. 
 
 This year’s dance is their seventh edition, and has given many youngsters even from other communities the opportunity to make great friends and also learn how to move to the beat. 
 
 First year law student Mariam Syed is glad she accompanied her Gujarati friends to the dance, where she has learned a step or two to in order to stay in the groove. 
 
 "I can’t imagine learning it any other way. This is truly what community spirit is about – learning new and fascinating cultures by experiencing them," she says.
 
 
