CHENNAI: Top athletes from across the country will be in action at the 57th National Open athletics championships which gets underway at the   here from Monday.

 The prime agenda for all the athletes is to make the podium and ensure they are included in the national camp which gives them an opportunity to stake a claim for the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year.
 
 The four-day meet will witness a few Olympians such as K Ganapathi (20K walk), Mohan Kumar (400m), Mohammed Anas (400m), Jinson Johnson (800m) and Kunhu Mohammad (400m). Tamil Nadu's Arokia Rajiv (400m) - who was part of the men's 4x400m relay team in the 2016 Rio Olympics - will not take part in the meet. Asian Athletics double gold medallist G Lakshmanan will represent the Services in the 5000m and 10000m race. In the women's category, all eyes will be on steeplechase champion and Olympian  , who will be representing Railways. Veteran athlete VS Surekha will be in action in the pole vault event, while quarter-miler MR Poovamma is one of the key members of the ONGC.
 
 Tamil Nadu coach M Riyaz said the   ( ) will be keenly looking at spotting numerous talents for the camp ahead of next year's major events.
 
 “Chennai's Mohan (400m) is a classic example. He was part of the relay team in the Indian camp that had about 810 people. At the last moment, a few injury concerns handed him an Olympic berth. Thus, the AFI will be looking to pick about 6-8 athletes in all events and guide them through the next year. This meet is not just about proven stars, but it's also about youngsters trying to make an impression,” Riyaz said.
 
 Renowned coach MV Rajasekhar, who is also the coach of the76-member TN contingent, believes Services start favourites in both men's and women's category .
 
 “They have almost all the stars. Railways and ONGC too have some top names. Haryana, Punjab have some talented athletes, while TN depend on a few young legs,” said Rajasekhar, who had a major hand in the rise of Mohan.
 
 Services coach Surendra Singh said their secret to success in lies in their training methods. “We adopt different training methods. Most athletes in the army train in the high altitude at Ooty. There is a streamlined process. Also there are job recruitments that encourage athletes to push harder,” he added.
 
 Coach Riyaz set for IAAF Level 2 coaches' course in Jakarta: TN coach Riyaz has been selected to attend the 12day International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) Level 2 coaches certification course in Jakarta next week. He will be the only Indian coach to take part in the course. “It's a big thing. I will be undergoing a pilot course on sprints and hurdles. It will be a great exposure and learning for me,” Riyaz said.
 
