CHENNAI: The state government is likely to table a bill in the ongoing assembly session to exclude Tamil Nadu from the ambit of the   ( ). Official sources said that after consulting the law department, the state decided to take the legislative route instead of fighting the case in the Supreme Court.

 In 2016, the Supreme Court made mandatory - a common entrance examination for all   – undergraduate and postgraduate – across the country. Only central government institutions such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and PGI Chandigarh were exempted from the common entrance. 
 
 Some states such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra vehemently opposed the judgment and managed to get exemptions for state-run institutions and affiliated colleges for 2016. “We don’t believe NEET is the right way for us. Many of our students will be left out. We have readied a Bill and we will be moving it during this session,” said a source. 
 
 The proposed legislation in effect means Tamil Nadu intends to make necessary statutory amendments for staying outside the ambit of NEET this year. 
 
 Since professional education is a subject which falls under the concurrent list, therefore, if the state takes the legislation route to make any amendments, it has to obtain prior assent from the President. Since this concerns medical education, besides the Union law ministry, the Union ministry of health and family welfare must vet it before recommending presidential assent.
 
 The immediate example of the state government tinkering with a central law to suit its purpose is the state amendment to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 in order to conduct jallikattu. With the Centre's help, Tamil Nadu was able to get the legislation cleared by relevant Union ministries and obtain presidential consent, all in a matter of two days.
 
 The legislation against NEET will allow the directorate of medical education to admit students into medical colleges based on class XII marks and the 69% reservation rule. In 2005, the state abolished entrance examinations for admissions to all professional courses by way of legislation. The state argued that it was in the interest of students, particularly those from rural areas and weaker sections, to ensure a level playing field.
 
 Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that NEET would be a direct infringement on the rights of the state and would cause grave injustice to students who have already been covered by a fair and transparent admission policy. The state also made similar arguments in the court, but they were struck down.
 
