A husband-wife's day long scuffle took violent proportions when the man held a knife to his daughter's throat as a  .The girls, who sustained  , were immediately rushed to the hospital. Their mother took the matter in her own hands and filed a complaint against her husband at the MIDC Bhosari police station on Friday.

 On February 17, Vijay Vayal (33) and his wife, Sheetal (28) entered into a spat, which the neighbours informed were occurring quite regularly and over different issues. On Friday afternoon, the couple's argument left a bitter Vijay writhing in anger for the entire day.
 
 Around 8.30 pm, he threatened to slit his daughters' throats before Sheetal, in a bid to tell her that “she cannot have her way in a dispute“.The yelling continued for a while, where he reportedly asked her to mend her ways.
 
 Sheetal and Vijay have been married for seven years now. What seemed to be a blissful marriage initially, turned sour over half a decade. The couple, who resides in Indrayni Nagar, Bhosari, owns a laundromat business.
 
 Their first daughter, Sharvari, was born a year after a marriage. Five years later, Sheetal gave birth to their second daughter, Sai.
 
 Over the span of time, the neighbours said that the marriage was falling apart. When the cops questioned them, they were told that Sheetal and Vijay would end up having a big quarrel every month over impending money issues or differences over minor things.However, they added that the attempt to injure the girls had occurred for the first time. The Vayal family claimed that Vijay loved his daughters.
 
 The cops reached the spot as soon as the complaint was registered. “We arrested Vijay from his home. Currently, he seems to be in a state of shock for holding a knife against his daughters' throat. He will be in the police custody for next four days,“ said Hemant Kokni, police sub-inspector of MIDC Bhosari.
 
 He added that Vijay's family has told the Bhosari police (and the act itself is proof enough, feel cops), that there is a possibility that he did this in a fit of rage. “We have been told that he has had temperamental issues for a while now,“ Kokani said.
 
 Vijay has been charged for attempt to murder and intent to provoke breach of the peace under sections 307 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. Sharvari and Sai are currently recovering and will get discharged from the hospital soon.
 
