CHANDIGRAH: In what could be seen as a setback to the Haryana chief secretary, the Chandigarh bench of   (CAT) on Friday allowed an application filed by senior   officer Ashok Khemka against the decision of cancelling a sanctioned leave travel concessions (LTC) for his mother.

 Bench headed by judicial member of the tribunal, Sanjeev Kaushik, passed the orders while allowing a petition filed by the Khemka challenging the chief secretary Haryana’s orders withdrawing the earlier sanction of LTC in favour of his mother for visiting his hometown Kolkata. Chief secretary had also asked Khemka to deposit the amount of LTC reimbursed within one month.
 
 Khemka had applied for sanction of LTC in favour of his dependent mother for visiting Kolkata from December 12, 2013, to April 30, 2014, for the sub-block 2014-15. A relaxation was sought to prepone the date of commencement of the outward journey to December 12, 2013, on the ground of hardship caused due to her health, as being old she could not tolerate the severe winters of the north India.
 
 On October 14, 2013, then chief secretary P K Chaudhary allowed relaxation to prepone the outward journey by 20 days as requested by the applicant. However, on June 1, 2016, present chief secretary D S Dhesi directed Khemka to deposit the amount of LTC reimbursed.
 
 Challenging the CS orders, Khemka had argued before the CAT that the state government was fully competent to sanction LTC of All India Service officers serving in the state. Under the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the   (LTC) Rules, 1975, the concession to a member of the service serving in the state shall not be inferior to the   (LTC) Rules, 1988, he had contended while appearing in person.
 
 Further criticizing the decision of chief secretary allowing one month gross salary to the IAS officers without travel, Khemka stated that such rules was immoral, arbitrary, abuse of power and undue enrichment of officers at the cost of public money. A large number of officers of the All India Services serving in the state would receive in excess of Rs 2 lakh without travel or incurring expenditure, he had argued.
 
 
