Geneva: In its most ambitious project since the launch of   in 2008,   on Tuesday unveiled its first sports car called ‘Racemo’ — a two-seater, fully connected coupe — at the  . The company did not reveal the price of the  , which will hit the road in fiscal 2018.

 Calling the startup innovation an “emotional... unexpected leap to the future”, Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD, Tata Motors, said, “Symbolising the change that is taking place at Tata Motors, Racemo will drive the future of India’s connected generation. From styling and design to driver experience and technology, Racemo is an extension of customers’ personality.” Butschek said the sports car is part of the company’s efforts to position it as a “youthful brand, keeping in mind the changing demographic profile of car consumers in India”.
 
 In a first for an Indian car, Racemo boasts of in an interactive gaming ecosystem with   video game currently available on   and  . Produced under the newly set up sub-brand  , an incubating centre for future mobility solutions, Racemo sports features such as advanced navigation, remote monitoring and over-the-air updates using Microsoft cloud-based technologies, including analytics, internet of things (IoT) and machine learning powered by Azure. “The Racemo offers customers an opportunity to own, play, race and explore,” Tata Motors said. 
 
 The new car was launched in the presence of Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata and group chairman N Chandrasekaran. In 1997, Tata Motors had unveiled Indica, the company’s foray into the passenger vehicle segment, at Geneva Motors. When asked about the 20-year journey since the launch of Indica, Tata said, “It has been worthwhile.” 
 
 Tata Motors said Racemo is built on a patented MOFlex Multi-Material Sandwich (MMS) structure — “a structural technology, enabling greater freedom in surface design, efficient large-scale part integration leading to modularity and faster time to market”. With a power of 190PS and a maximum torque of 210 Nm backed by 1.2L Revotron Turbocharged, Intercooled Gasoline Engine, Racemo, crafted at Tata Motors’ studio in Turin in Italy, promises to deliver an acceleration from 0-100 kmph in under 6 seconds.
 
 Mayank Pareek, president (passenger vehicle business), Tata Motors, told TOI Racemo will have a positive effect on Tata Motors’ mainstream products.Later in an interview to TOI, Butschek said that the company needs to find a “solution for Nano”. He said there is no platform support for Nano’s success, as Tata Motors has decided to reduce platforms to two from six. He, however, said that does not mean that, “Nano is not going to get one or the other successor, we are not excluding her”. 
 
 Butschek confirmed to TOI that Tata Motors is in talks with   for the “AMP (Advanced Modular Platform) collaboration”. Tata Motors also launched two other cars — Tigor, a sub-compact sedan version of its successful hatchback Tiago, and a compact SUV   — here. Built on the carmaker’s new IMPACT design, Tigor is the sedan derivative of the company’s top-selling hatchback Tiago. The petrol-version of Tigor will be powered by a 1.2-litre, three-cylinder Revotron. Looking to carve a niche segment with the new car, Tata Motors is calling the Tigor a ‘styleback’. The Tigor will compete with the likes of Honda’s Amaze, Ford’s Aspire, Volkswagen’s Ameo, Hyundai’s Xcent and Maruti Suzuki’s Dzire. Tigor is priced at Rs 5.5-7.5 lakh.
 
 Boasting a six-speed manual transmission gearbox with 1.5L Revotorq Diesel engine, Nexon sports an advanced infotainment system, featuring a dash-top touchscreen designed by Harman. Nexon will take on the likes of the Ford EcoSport, Maruti Suzuki’s Vitara Brezza and Mahindra’s TUV300. The company did not reveal the price for Nexon.
 
 (The author was in 
 
 Geneva at the invitation of Tata Motors)
 
 
