Attendees of the   or   for medical colleges in Kerala were in of a rude shock even before they reached their exam hall. What awaited the students in districts like Kannur and Ernakulam were multiple levels of security checks that involved elaborate frisking and students, most of them 18 or below, were even asked to remove their inner wear, unzip their jeans, unbutton their tops or cut their sleeves. All this harassment in the name of preventing students from cheating!

 The bizarre dress code adherence that was enforced in this year’s entrance test at various parts of the State and also in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, was more draining for the students than preparing an entire year for the exam.
 
 Sure, CBSE had earlier brought out an exhaustive list of items that would be prohibited at the exam hall – including dark clothes, big buttons, metallic objects, brooches and shoes. But one is still at wit’s end about how all this warrants harassing students who arrived at the venue minutes before to write a pivotal exam in their lives. Why put them through a security screening when common sense could have easily prevailed.
 
 Even though it’s been two days since the ordeal, the students and parents are still seething about what they had to go through and how NEET’s code is bizarre and confounding. Kochi Times probes...
 
 
 
 I spent a year to prepare for the entrance exam after my Class XII, and I was hopeful that I would get a good rank for the NEET exams. I followed all the rules mentioned in the hall ticket but I never knew my brassiere would land me in trouble. I lost my confidence and composure when I was asked to remove it in front of everybody. I tried convincing them that the metal clip of the bra was what tipped off the detector but the lady official strictly said that she cannot permit me with any metallic object and that was the rule! So, I was forced to take if off and hand it to my mom. I felt lost in the exam hall, sitting there in sheer discomfort. Even now, I wish they considered my case. What could have I done with a metal clip in the exam hall? That’s three years of my hard work down the drain.
 
 
 
 I’m a teacher and so I am fully aware of the mischiefs the students indulge in at the exam halls. But I cried, when my daughter came out of the gate to hand me her brassiere. She is a girl who wears it throughout the day. I wonder how she walked back to the hall, wrote the exam and came out without wearing it. This is not an isolated incident. Many were asked to remove but none of them are speaking out. Our complaint is not against NEET but about the unfriendly manner in which they carried out the checking.
 
 
 
 It is upsetting that the students have to a face tougher test outside than inside the exam hall. It is also insulting to the supervising teachers, who have handled bigger exams like Civil Service. The authorities should understand that the two examiners in each hall are enough to monitor any malpractice. There’s no need for such scrutiny. The credibility of students and teachers are questioned unnecessarily here. Even if the rules are primitive, they should have used basic common sense instead of treating students harshly. Maybe from next time, they might deploy army to supervise for all you know.
 
 
 
 I attended the exam at Sri Narayana Vidya Mandir, Kannur, and we had to go through three levels of security check. At the first entrance, they checked our hall tickets and verified the photograph. They repeated the same at the second and also snapped our photographs. Policemen with metal detectors awaited us at the third point, where they checked our hair, fingers, sandals, dress and even searched our ears with torchlight. The girl who was behind me wore a dress with a metal button and the officials cut it off with a scissor. Ironically, I did not find them catching anybody from entering with tools to copy. Even inside the exam hall, we had two supervisors and the photographs of those writing the exam were being clicked at intervals. 
 
 
 
 To prevent malpractices, students have to be strictly monitored. However, that doesn’t mean that we should opt for methods that harass them. Even after taking all these measures, the officials couldn’t find a single instance of cheating in Kerala. But the process of inspection before entering the exam hall would definitely have impacted the young minds. Those who were asked to remove inner wears or buttons would have been hurt and that would have adversely affected their exams. Most of them are 18 or below and are already under societal, parental and peer pressure. And when they come to write an exam after prepping for almost two years, they are asked to cross another physically and emotionally exhausting test to enter the exam hall. Its hangover would be there even after the exam is over. We need student- friendly measures. They aren’t criminals after all.
 
 
 
 It is shocking and unbelievable. It’s true that these rules where enforced after question papers repeatedly got leaked, and to prevent the usage of spy cameras and Bluetooth devices. However, all those methods of malpractice happen in North India, not here. I think the invigilators should have used common sense before ill-treating the students. They inspected them mechanically, using zero intelligence. The rules too are bizarre! I hope they would not ask students to come naked in future to make them write the exam, just so they could prevent copying. 
 
 
