Brightening up the festival celebrations,   is also believed to be harbinger of good luck. This art form is native to Nepal, India and Bangladesh. Also known as Alpana, rangoli patterns are created on the floor using coloured rice, flowers, coloured sand or paints. 

 Rangoli art is a traditional form of welcoming good luck and its popularity has remained unaffected over the years. Rangoli competitions are one of the most popular activities during festivals. Rangoli is a spiritual distribution of colours and thus is considered a harbinger of good luck. Most of the rangoli designs maintain symmetry like a yin and yang symbol or a swastika. And, worldwide, across all religions, symmetrical designs are considered as a symbol of prosperity, luck and growth.
 
  
  
 
 Indian is land of many languages and hence this art form has different names in different regions. 
 
 
 
 Kolam was traditionally drawn using rice flour or chalk powder. With modern times, use of synthetic coloured powders is also used. Native to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerela and some parts of Goa, traditionally, the main purpose of Kolam was not decoration. Earlier, Kolams were drawn in coarse rice flour so that the ants would not have to walk too far for a meal. Along with ants, Kolam encouraged harmonious existence by setting an invitation to birds and other small creatures for a meal.
 
 
 
 Named after the popular art of Mandana paintings, this kind of Rangoli is native to the areas of Rajasthan. Mandana is drawn to protect health, welcome gods and mark the celebration of festivals. Mandana is basically drawn using chalk powder. Women draw this beautiful piece of art form with the help of a piece of cotton, a tuft of hair or a rudimentary brush made out of a date stick.
 
 
 
 Popular for its kaleidoscopic designs, Chowkpurana is drawn using dried rice flour or other forms of white dust powder. Although there are numerous traditional   patterns, designs have evolved over the years depending on the creativity of younger generation. Considered auspicious, Chaook also signifies showering of good luck and prosperity in the family.
 
 
 
 The word Alpana is derived from the Sanskrit word ‘alimpana’. Alimpana means 'to plaster' or 'to coat with'. Traditionally, women of the house made alpana before the sunset. Strictly drawn in white colour, to draw an alpana that stays for longer duration, fabric colours along with a portion of glue can be used. Other natural colours that can be used are green and red – green to be obtained from leaves and red from sindoor.
 
 
 
 This traditional art is known as Jhoti or Chita in Odisha. Unlike in other areas, jhoti can also be drawn on walls as well and is traditionally a line art drawing. The white colour os obtained from a semi-liquid paste of rice flour to draw this traditional line art. Apart from several designs and patterns used in jhoti, small foot marks of goddess Lakshmi are a must. It is highly symbolic and meaningful. Jhoti was drawn by women of the house to establish a relationship between the mystical and the material.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Aripana patterns are integral to almost every celebration in a Bihari household. Drawn in the courtyard or the entrance, any ritual or celebration is considered incomplete without aripana in Bihar. Traditionally, aripanas were drawn to make the cultivated land fertile and fruitful by magical performances. Made with fingers, the delicate designs are made with the help of rice paste or pittha.
 
 
 
 Known as Muggupindi, these rangoli patterns are drawn with a mixture of calcium or chalk powder. During festivals, the mixture is made of rice flour as an offering to ants, insects and sparrows. This gorgeous traditional art is transferred over the generations.
 
  
  
 
 The emergence of this creative art can be attributed to Hindu mythological literature works. The word rangoli is a derivation of the Sanskrit word ‘rangavalli’ and signifies a creative expression of art by the means of colours. Rangoli is also considered a lucky omen. However, traditional rangoli designs were two-dimensional; the modern three dimensional designs are attractive too. 
 
 It is the freehand art that makes it more creative and fun. A traditional design can find a modern parallel depending on the creativity of the artist. Modern-day rangolis look mesmerizing with the inclusion of various embellishments. Flowers, petals, glitters, paints and stickers make the art form even more beautiful. Special patterns are created on the festival of Diwali and when the rangoli is decorated with lighted diyas, it looks stunning.
 
 This traditional art form has seen a modern transition too and at various rangoli competitions are making use of this art to communicate about a social message and create awareness on the social issues. Women empowerment, female feticide, rape and environmental misbalances are few issues that have gained popularity over the years. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
