VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the success of the  , superintendents of police (SPs) from six districts of AP and Odisha led by two range DIGs held a meeting at Koraput in Odisha on Monday to   and   from the border areas. They have also decided to cooperate during the panchayat elections in the neighbouring state to ensure peace.

 Greyhounds from AP and anti-naxal forces of Malkangiri had carried out a successful encounter at Ramaguda in Malkangiri cut off area on October 24 last year and killed 31 naxals including AOB   members and sympathisers. 
 
 North Andhra SPs Rahuldev Sarma (Visakha Rural), Ranga Rao (Vizianagaram) and J Brahma Reddy (Srikakulam) of AP led by Visakha Range DIG Ch Srikanth along with Mitrabhanu Mahapatra (Malkangiri), Charansingh Meena (Koraput) and Subrahmanyam (Rayagada) led by Koraput range DIG S Saini discussed the Maoist menace in detail and chalked out plans to curb their movements. 
 
 According to sources, all the SPs and DIGs came to the conclusion that coordination, cooperation and sharing of information should be done at regular intervals. They also chalked out plans to penetrate the interior pockets of the tribal belt to reach out to the public with community policing programmes. They also discussed the recent killings of tribals by Maoists, their hideouts in forests along the borders, and intrusion routes. A decision was also taken to encourage naxals to surrender in order to weaken the Maoist rank and file, sources added. 
 
 Meanwhile, as part of the election preparations, police of both the states will set up check posts and carry out vehicle checks to prevent transport of illegal liquor and money. “This meeting was made mandatory by the Election Commission. Odisha cops invited us for the meeting as the northern districts of AP share the borders with them,” Visakha Range DIG Ch Srikanth told TOI. 
 
 The panchayat elections in Odisha will be held in five phases from February 13 to 21 of which three phases will be held in the AOB border areas. However, with the abduction of poll staff in Chitrakonda block of Malkangiri district by naxals, the government has indefinitely postponed the elections in the block. 
 
