CHENNAI: Faced with a looming water crisis, the TN government and the main opposition, DMK, are competing with each other to desilt water bodies to earn public goodwill. While chief minister   on Thursday held a video conference with district collectors from his chambers at the state secretariat, urging them to speed up work, DMK leader M K   is spearheading a party programme to desilt tanks. He has accused the state government of apathy on this crucial issue.

 Palaniswami held discussions with district collectors of Salem, Coimbatore, Villupuram, Trichy, Thanjavur, Madurai and Tirunelveli and took stock of strengthening large water bodies. In a move to enable community participation, his government took up 1,519 PWD tanks for desilting and repairs under `Kudimaramathu,' an ancient Tamil concept of managing water resources. With each tank covering an irrigated area of 100 acres, the Palaniswami government is keen on making visible changes ahead of monsoon. Each water user association gets Rs 10 lakh from the state and a share of 10% from the beneficiaries.
 
 The participants in the CM meet were in for a tough session, with Palaniswami, who holds PWD portfolio, throwing several questions at district collectors. Recently, the state allowed farmers to use the nutrientrich silt for agricultural land.
 
 “His message was loud and clear. The maximum number of farmers should utilise this positive scheme and a lot of publicity should be given. He directed collec tors to ensure that the maximum number of water bodies were desilted so that it would be a win-win situation for both sides before the monsoons set in,“ said a senior bureaucrat, who was privy to the discussions.Plans are afoot to take up another 2,200 tanks for desilting.
 
 In the DMK, meanwhile, the diktat from Stalin is that a water body in each constituency should be desilted.Partymen in Chennai were on Thursday scouring Perungudi for water bodies.While the PWD does not allow private agencies to desilt or repair irrigation tanks, the DMK is planning to work on tanks maintained by the HR&CE department. Locals were taken aback when earthmovers desilted   last week. Work has begun in Jayachandran Nagar in Sholinganallur.
 
 “We only inform HR&CE and we are glad that they don't interfere in our work.After all, we are helping them do their job,“ said   secretary and former mayor M Subramanian. The Trichy DMK unit, however, criticized the HR&CE department for taking credit for their desilting work in Thennur tank.
 
