The state government recently issued a GO introducing English as a medium of instruction in municipal schools. While most of our readers welcomed the move, they pointed out that at the same time, Telugu should not be neglected. Here’s what they had to say: 

 
 
 
 The government’s decision to introduce   is a welcome step. English language finds wide acceptance at the national and international levels and so there is nothing wrong in making it the medium of instruction. However, in order to protect Telugu language, it should be made compulsory as the second language up to a certain level. It should be given equal importance as other subjects. The government should also give incentives to those who want to continue education in Telugu. Before introducing English medium in schools, the government should ensure that sufficient and efficient teaching staff is available at all levels. Then only the move will be successful. At the village level, the availability of English teaching staff is difficult and this should be looked into so that the rural population are not deprived of proper education. 
 
 M Suryanarayana, Retired govt employee
 
 
 
 
 How many of us are capable enough to speak in English after leaving school? Students in government schools are only used to speaking and writing in Telugu. Only those who can afford private school education can speak and write in English and achieve higher rankings. Most students of Telugu medium lack confidence during interviews and are not able to write grammatically correct letters. Therefore, we must welcome the government’s move as this will empower the rural population and lead to development of those areas. 
 
 V Ramesh, Retired employee 
 
 
 
 The decision to change the medium of education from Telugu to English is good, but   report suggests that primary education should be in the mother tongue. Parents always look for English medium schools and so English should be introduced in the pre-primary level so that students are fluent in both the languages by the time they enter the primary level. Hence, change in the present pre-primary syllabus is needed and the concerned officials should monitor the progress regularly to understand the shortcomings. 
 
 Malla Ramu Naidu, Director of School of Wonder Kids
 
 
 
 
 I support the government’s decision to implement English medium in government schools. With many students not get education in English, it becomes difficult for them to get jobs in the private sector. But at the same time, changing the medium of education all of a sudden can pose an obstacle for children as they won’t be able to adapt themselves that fast. Thus, English medium in government schools must be implemented in stages so that students can adapt to it gradually.
 
 Aadarsh Tushar, Student
 
 
 
 
 It’s definitely a positive move, but our mother tongue should not be ignored. By introducing English medium in schools, we can improve the quality of education and people coming from other states won’t face any problem regarding their children’s education. But the government should ensure that Telugu is encouraged equally so that children do not end up knowing only a foreign language. 
 
 V Santosh, Student
 
 
 
 English is essential for everyone to get a high-paying job in the private sector. The decision to make English medium mandatory is excellent, but the government should at the same time concentrate on how to promote Telugu. Promoting English for one’s livelihood should not kill our mother tongue. Telugu must be made compulsory till the intermediate level instead of Sanskrit as the second language. 
 
 TV Nageswara Rao, Retd employee
 
 
 
 
 Doing away with Telugu medium and introducing English should be done only after there is proper infrastructure and qualified teaching staff. English is the language of business across the globe and this will help students in rural areas get jobs in the private sector. 
 
 Manju Kolli, Student
 
 
