AMRITSAR: A day after 20-year-old   withdrew from the campaign she had started against   on Facebook, the chiefs of powerful Sikh bodies   and   came out in her support on Wednesday over the alleged death and rape threats issued to the student of Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College on social media.

 The daughter of Army martyr Captain Mandeep Singh has been in the eye of storm after she started a social media campaign over ABVP members attacking protesting students of Delhi’s Ramjas College on February 22. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Kirpal Singh Badugnar said a delegation of SGPC would meet Gurmehar to “ensure her safety”. “India is a democratic country and everyone is free to express him or herself; those intimidating Gurmehar should be given exemplary punishment,” he said.
 
 Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh described the threats as “unfortunate”. “It is not safe for Gurmehar to live in Delhi where she could be molested. It is Delhi government’s duty to ensure her safety,” he said. “Sikh’s won’t tolerate any unfortunate happening with her,” he said.
 
 Gurmehar’s campaign on social media had also met with ridicule from former cricketer Virender Sehwag and actor Randeep Hooda, triggering a social media fight.
 
 The support from Akal Talkht and SGPC came on a day UK-based Sikh Federation wrote to five permanent members of the United Nations over the issue. Sikh Federation’s Amrik Singh said the student was not only being intimidated and ridiculed, but openly threatened with rape and murder. “Those hounding her are protected and encouraged by those with power and influence. She is standing up for peace and free speech, while governments are choosing to scare her into silence,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Hundreds of activists of Punjab Students Union ((PSU) staged a demonstration against ABVP in Amritsar. Demanding legal action against those issuing threats of Gurmehar, PSU’s Amritsar district chief, Vijay Jandiala, said ABVP was intimidating the students at the behest of BJP.
 
