Bollywood singer  , who forayed into Tollywood with the title song of Allu Arjun’s   is now making inroads into Kollywood with Mahesh Babu’s upcoming bilingual Spyder. “I got my break in South cinema with a Telugu film. I shall always be thankful to Telugu people for that,” says the 36-year-old who recently recorded the song, Mochakottai. In a tete-e-tete with Hyderabad Times the native of Uttar Pradesh talks about his love for all things Tollywood. Excerpts... 

 
 
 Oh yes! I couldn’t ask for more. I am a big fan of Mahesh Babu and I love his passion for work, his swag, his personality — tewar wala. I’ve lent my voice for quite a few of his songs — for the Hindi versions of his movies. Now that I am actually singing for him, I can’t contain my excitement.
 
 
 
 It’s a peppy romantic number with an Arabic touch.   ka music hai, toh zahir si baath hai ki kuch alag hi panga hota. It was due to lyricist Ramajogayya Sastry’s (with whom I worked in Sarrainodu) recommendation that I got to this opportunity. When Harris sir called me, I was stuck in a busy market in Bihar. Main to hil gaya. I thought someone was playing a prank on me, so I disconnected the call after promising to call back after two minutes. It was when I checked the number in Truecaller, that I realised that it was not a prank call after all. Red-faced, I called him up immediately and apologised profusely. He could not stop laughing. 
 
 
 In a word, amazing! I was delighted to have gotten the opportunity to work with the man who composed the soulful music of Rehnaa Hai Terre Dil Mein. When said that I have a unique fresh voice, mera dil bagh bagh ho gaya. (laughs) The entire team, especially lyricist  , was so cooperative throughout the recording that it became easy for me to pick up the song despite not knowing the language. The experience was so different. Log yahan bohat dil se kaam karte hai. I have observed that in the West, people value satisfaction more than money and time. Uska jhalak mujhe yahan bhi dekhne ko mila. This doesn’t happen in Bollywood, they call you fatakse, many times want you to record in just an hour’s notice and if a singer fails to pick up quickly, they get irritated. Not every song is same, and not every singer is used to every genre, so a singer can’t pick up every song he or she comes across. One has to get into it, create the mood. But they fail to understand that. Baad mein singer ke naam pe market pe raita faila dete hai. The scenario was very different here, sab haste muskurate kaam karte hai.
 
 
 The music here is catchy and massy. I specially love the 6/8 beat music that is mostly used in the Tollywood dance numbers. It will make everyone groove to its beats no matter what the lyrics is. 
 
 
 Hyderabad mein itna aana jana hota rehta tha kaam ke silsile mein ki. Hyderabad has become my second home. And the ease with which I can communicate with people here, is something I don’t find anywhere else in South. Aap kisi bhi duniyan mein jake adhure reh jaoge agar aap converse nahi kar paye to. But here I am always surrounded with friendly faces who are always eager to help you out. The love I got from Hyderabad is immense. And don’t get me start on Hyderabadi biryani. (Laughs)
 
