PUNE: There was a time when Pune would receive pre-monsoon showers almost every day in the evening but not any longer. Many regions in India too are currently facing deficiency in pre-monsoon rainfall, which has touched a 4-6-year low.

 Meteorologists suspect absent   to be primarily responsible for below par rain this season. May is the last month of the pre-monsoon season and yet many regions in the country remain rain deprived.
 
 The shortfall in March to May rainfall, a boon for Kharif soil preparation, has touched a 4-6-year low in Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat, among other regions, in the country.
 
 While pre-monsoon showers have been the lowest in four years in Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh and Punjab, the deficiency in   has touched a six-year low, followed by Marathwada and Vidarbha.
 
 A scientist from the   (IITM) said, “Several years ago, Pune would receive pre-monsoon showers almost every evening in summer. This year, the pre-monsoon rainfall has been quite low because of the absence of weather systems that are needed to bring such rains.”
 
 P. C. S. Rao, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Analysis Group, India Meteorological Department ( ), Pune, said that the absence of moisture incursion this season was the main reason behind the deficiency in pre-monsoon showers. “Convective heating was limited this time. The anticyclone over the Bay of Bengal, which brings in moisture, could also not be traced. Also, confluence of winds and moisture was more concentrated over Northeast India, which received good pre-monsoon rain this season,” said Rao.
 
 R. Kulkarni, retired senior scientist from IITM, said that less moisture incursion, which is required for formation of rain clouds, was mainly responsible for pre-monsoon rains beginning late this year. “We have been getting reports of isolated rains in parts of Maharashtra over a week, which means that the rainfall activity started late this season. The heat waves during the early part of the season resulted in the influence of northerly and northwesterly winds, which are dry and warm in nature and hinder moisture incursion,” he said.
 
 A. K. Jaswal, former scientist at IMD, Pune, opined that the increasing influence of dust and aerosols are known to trap moisture and thereby hinder rainfall activity. He, however, said that more research and data are needed to establish this phenomenon’s impact on rainfall activity in any season.
 
