Hyderabad: National Investigation Agency ( ) sleuths who visited the   train accident spot in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh on Monday ruled out the possibility of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) being used to trigger the mishap.

 “There are no indication of an IED blast at the accident scene,” NIA sources told TOI. In all, 39 persons were killed in the mishap which occured late on Saturday night. Meanwhile, the condition of 12 persons admitted to KGH here continues to be serious.
 
 While the NIA sources ruled out the use of IED, they said it cannot be said at this stage whether there was an ISI or Naxal hand in ther accident. “Forensic experts have gathered lot of material evidence from the accident scene. They will analyse it at FSLs in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. Only after that can we completely rule out a human hand in the mishap,” a NIA official said. The team comprised Viswas Kumar Singh, DS Biswan and Rohan Roy 
 
 NIA, which is already probing the alleged role of Pakistan's ISI in the Indore-Patna Express   near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh that claimed 150 lives, was roped in to probe the Hirakhand Express derailment in order to assess the possible involvement of terrorists or Maoists.
 
 On Monday, a team of AP   also visited the accident site. “We are not ruling out any possibility till the forensic report comes out,” AP CID Chief Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said. FSL experts will analyse the pieces of railway track under the microscope to see if the track was cut with the help of a hacksaw or whether it got broken due to the derailment. The AP government has transferred the accident case registered by the Vizianagaram Government Railway Police (GRP) to the AP CID. 
 
 Both the NIA and CID teams quizzed several persons including train driver DN Raju and guard L Lakshmana Rao. CID ADG Tirumala Rao told the media here that five teams have been constituted to probe the accident. “One team will investigate the explosive angle, a second team will probe whether any chemicals were involved in the blast. A third team will inquire the technical angle, the clues team would examine the post mortem reports and the fifth team will question the injured persons,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, railway authorities confirmed on Monday that the death toll stoold at 39 and that all the bodies have been identified. 26 of the victims were males and the dead included four girls below 16 years and four boys below 19 years. Contrary to the earlier reports that 8 of the victims were from Vizag, it turned out that those from the port city who died were only four persons. They were identified as M. Krishna (35) and P Pillai (21) of Chinna Kudama in Vizianagaram, Kosuru Ravi Kumar (20) of Rangala Veedhi in Viziangaram and Yella Krishna Murthy (70) of Gopalapatnam in Vizag city. All the dead bodies were claimed by their kith and kin and the ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each was handed over to the family members by railway officials. 
 
 
