Kolkata: By next week, oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay will complete his switch-over to cheque payments. Ever since demonetization struck, Mukhopadhyay has been gradually embracing cheques, even though it hasn’t been easy. But with the government now making it mandatory for professionals to stick to cheques for payments in excess of Rs 10,000, his decision to trade cheque for cash has proved useful.

 “With cash turning scarce, this was inevitable. So, I started paying my staff in cheques last December. For most of them it turned out to be difficult for they either didn’t have bank accounts or were not conversant with banking rules. But I chose to depute one of my employees to accompany them to banks with bearer cheques. The effort led to a waste of man-hours but has eventually proved to be wise,” said Mukhopadhyay.
 
 Many small traders, too, have done the same. They are using the cashless means to make payments to suppliers and labourers. But often it is becoming difficult for them. “I have opened bank accounts of all my labourers and I transfer their salaries. I am also paying my suppliers by cheque,” said Amanullah Khan, a wholesaler of fruits in Mechua.
 
 Garments trader Afroz Ahmed Khan has also opted for cheques and bank transfers for payments. “Earlier, I would pay almost all by cash. It came down to 25% in December and last month I made all my payments either by cheques or digitally,” said Khan.
 
 However, there are many who are still struggling to slip into the cashless mode. Narayan Om Panseria, who has a sanitaryware showroom on Eden Hospital Road, said he tried to pay his labourers by cheque but it did not work out. “It took three days for the money to get credited to their accounts. In our business, we have to make weekly payments, so my workers said that it would be better if I paid them in cash. While now I must move to cheques, my labourers will not be pleased,” said Panseria.
 
 Some professionals are worried about keeping track of the amounts the are to pay to their staff. Diptendra Sarkar, head of the department of breast cancer, Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research, believes migrating to cheques could be diffcult. “I have two drivers and a chamber assistant who receive their salaries in cash. Since their working hours often vary, the payment, too, changes every month. Whenever they work extra hours, I pay them immediately, which makes it easier to keep track of the amount due,” he said. Sarkar argued that if he has to pay them by cheque, he has to maintain a log book, which is cumbersome. 
 
 
