PATNA: The special investigation team (SIT) investigating the   (BSSC) question leak scam is likely to request the state government for permission to probe into the recent selection of candidates for auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) posts in the state. 

 The SIT plans to expand the ambit of its probe beyond the paper leak scam for recruitment of 13,120 clerks in different government departments following several SMSs found in the cellphone of suspended BSSC secretary Parmeshwar Ram, who is in jail along with senior IAS official and former commission chairman Sudhir Kumar. The SMSs were allegedly sent by ministers, bureaucrats and politicians to Parmeshwar seeking favours for their candidates. 
 
 Sources said the ANM selection list was prepared but the results could not be declared owing to the examination paper leak scam in which 34 persons have so far been arrested.
 
 When contacted, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj, who is heading the SIT, said on Wednesday, “Looking at the situation, the SIT may write to the state government for getting the ANM selection by the BSSC investigated.”
 
 SIT sources said the names of two principal secretary rank IAS officials, besides state cooperative minister Alok Mehta and law minister Krishna Nandan Verma, JD(U) MLA Ram Balak Singh, BJP MLA Suresh Sharma and former RJD MP Raghuvansh Prasad Singh have surfaced in the list of those sending SMSs to Parmeshwar and seeking favours for their candidates in ANM selection. 
 
 A senior police officer said, “The several SMSs to the BSSC secretary with details of their candidates indicate that Parmeshwar was obliging them.” He also said the SIT was waiting for the government’s directive to probe whether the candidates for ANM posts mentioned in the SMSs had been selected by the BSSC or not.
 
 “Till now, SMSs seeking favours have been recovered only from Parmeshwar’s cellphones while Sudhir had deleted all the SMSs from his cellphones. The SIT is awaiting the forensic laboratory reports of around 15 cellphones, including three of Sudhir, to get further clues,” a source said.
 
 The officer also said there were still a few missing links in the paper leak scam. “Ranjan Kumar and Hariom, both relatives of Sudhir, are yet to be arrested,” he said. 
 
 
