The past two days have seen actress   in the news due to a leaked deleted scene that has people speculating about whether she shot for it in the  . The actress, who was upset and agitated over the issue, spoke to us saying, “Yes. I shot for it, but I was not nude. I have pictures that show my body parts covered up with a towel that were clicked in my caravan. What is eventually seen in the film is the result of computer colour grading, which was made to show the scene in that fashion. My character,  , is a victim of sexual abuse in this scene, so this was meant to showcase that. I am appalled at how the scene has been circulated by people and has been shown repeatedly on media platforms. It shocks me that people want to share content like this among themselves.” 

 
 
 Speaking about the treatment of the scene Sanjjanaa says, “I knew I was shooting a bold scene and that it would be ‘sensational’ in terms of how the word is used in the industry. As actors, we are fully aware of what is being shot, but we have no control on how it is being picturized. I thought it would be shot aesthetically, but the way it has been picturized is downright vulgar. The fault is in the making. It might have been shot like that keeping the mass audience in mind.”
 
 The actress, like the rest of her team, is worried about how the video will be taken down, even as some platforms have been forced to do so. “The scene is not even in the film, so the question about who leaked it is obviously restricted to the core team. If it was uploaded through a computer, we could have tracked the source. This has gone viral on Whatsapp first, and that is making it difficult to track the source. I have a team working on removing all links and related content that has been appearing online,” says Sanjjanaa, adding, “My family is in a state of panic, but they are, of course, being supportive and standing by me.” 
 
 
 
 The film’s director,  , when contacted, told us that he is also shocked about how the scene is out and that his team is trying to trace the source. When quizzed about the content in the scene and on showcasing Sanjjanaa like that, all he said was, “I’ve no comments on that. It is a deleted scene. We will talk once we make headway in the matter.”
 
