MANGALURU: If March 21 marked the first death anniversary of RTI activist Vinayak Baliga and his family’s never ending wait for justice, another family more than 500-kms away at Pattanamthitta is going through the same emotions.

  Even the Radhakrishnan family is still grieving over the death of their only son Rohit, then 22, who they are certain was murdered in the early hours of March 23, 2014, at  . The headless torso of   was found on the spot.
 
 Devraj C Sathyadevan, maternal uncle of Rohit, says it is three years since the Radhakrishnans found the headless body of their son Rohit, then a final year student of A J Institute of Medical Sciences, near the beach road towards Tannirbhavi under Panambur police station limits. “The tears of his parents Sreedevi, a doctor, and Radhakrishnan, advocate, has never dried. Nightmares are hounding them and his dear and near every nights as well as days,” he said.
 
 Dr Sreedevi, a practicing pediatrician working at Bahrain at that time, could not bear the loss of Rohit, and is now back home at Kuzhikkala Pathanamthitta, working with a hospital nearby. “The parents have tried their level best with all possible channels to take the enquiry forward. Their efforts have come to a naught by unseen, mighty monster forces that were responsible for his death,” Devraj said in a release mailed to the media.
 
 After three years, there is no conclusion on cause of death. The police and other machinery that should have been protecting the life of the citizens are showing a cold face to the enquiry. “It is not their priority at all,” Devraj surmised. Questioning the result of the enquiry, Devraj said forces behind Rohit’s death are sure that the incident will be wrapped in history. Everyone will forget about the incident, circumstances, and the people behind the crime, he noted.
 
 Everyone including police are trying to cover up the case. “Incompetent persons conducted the postmortem. The police enquiry and the subsequent CB-CID enquiry was an eye wash. And one has no idea about the case files of this case. We never got justice from anyone, be it police, the government and the judiciary. Where should we go to seek justice? Or whom should we seek justice? This is the only question in front of us,” he added.
 
