Flamboyant, humble, spiritual and god fearing -KJ  , the legendary singer, is all these, and more. The   with the midas touch has added another feather to his cap recently. He was been honoured with the  , the second-highest civilian award in the country. Having sung more than 20,000 songs in his five-decade career, he is one of the most loved and respected veterans in the music industry. From Azhagennum Oyiyam, Senthazham Poovil, Etho Ninaivugal Kanavugal Manthile, and countless more songs, his relentless passion for music has made us fall in love, immerse in devotion and experience all forms of emotions. He opens up on his gurus, recognitions, religion, what keeps him going, and more, in a conversation with Chennai Times.

 
 
 A seed never thinks about how big it is going to grow into -it is part of a natural process. But I believe I have grown so much only because of the blessings of my gurus. The masters are the ones who sow the seed, so I am thankful to them. You should constantly be under the influence of your gurus to reach to the top and to be successful.
 
 
 
 I don't believe that I have become a great person because of the awards I have received. What I am today is because of God's grace.The honour, pride and royalty of my persona is because of the divine power. He blessed me for what I'm currently.
 
 
 
 Chembai was the last but one guru I learnt music from. The last was Pallavi Narasimhachari. But my first ever teacher was my father.He was a drama artiste and a singer. Those days, almost all the actors knew how to sing. He considered classical singer Kittappa as his manasaguru. But I have to admit that my father never sang an unknown swara that he hadn't practiced or studied. He sang different ragams but never sang any swaras. I think that ability itself was a gift of Goddess Saraswati. I am still seeking and looking forward to my long journey. I don't know after how many births I was born as a singer. All I know is that my travel will continue. I also hope that I am born as a singer in every birth.
 
 
 
 Tyagaraja Swamy's immediate descendent might have heard his compositions. But as days passed by, so many people heard his songs and converted it into their own style. But is that what you call tradition? Not everyone can become Tyagaraja Swamy .One cannot understand his feelings or bhakti, the way he created the songs, or his interpretation of carnatic music. He never asked for any Padma Bhushan or a Vibhushan. But we, on the other hand, live in a modern society , and I respect what the Government has bestowed on us. But our ancestors were much greater than us. They completely lived in devotion and sang for the God.
 
 
 
 Let's compare this with a hotel. A wellknown and genuine vegetarian hotel that has been serving authentic food, with utmost cleanliness and hygiene will be preferred by the people. But if people ask him to change the food and serve something else, and if he changes what he serves, then people will not like it. The same applies to music. I started learning music at a very young age and I am continuing my study . I never confused myself and I continue to believe in old traditional things. An art piece made by hand is of much more value than what it is when made by a machine. So many things are mechanised including music that is not natural. People who like traditional music, will go to the singer who sings just that. Those who want fusion music can find their singers accordingly .
 
 
 
 
 I am not worried about his attitude or temper. He calls me, respects me and when I go to his studio, we connect because of music. I have never used his time to speak about unnecessary things and he never does the same with me. We do our job and leave.
 
 
 
 I am going to take food as an example again. My grandmother and aunts used to sit together, cut vegetables, talk, sing songs and make delicious food. The food they made was delicious and traditional.But these days everything is taken from ready-made shops. How will the food taste? Apply the same thing for music.
 
 
 
 Vijay is my second son. Vinod is my first and Vishal is my last. My father had five children -four sons and one daughter. My brothers can sing, but my father didn't let everyone learn music. My father chose me. Similarly , I realised Vijay will be good when it comes to singing. The other two are doing well, earning good salary , etc. But he is enjoying life more than them with money and fame.
 
 
 
 Anybody can sing. Finding singers, the genuine ones, is a rarity . There might just be a handful of them. On the other hand, there are so many actors. A director can make a lot of people act. But singing is not the same. This is my opinion, when a person is singing well and has studied music, stick to it.
 
 
 
 I have sung songs for all the Gods. They say there are three prominent religions in our country -Hinduism, though I feel it is a way of life, Islam and Christianity . But I feel culture came into existence before religion. Religion is something that came later. In the Upanishads, they focus on the way of life and not on Gods. They preached the highest philosophy in those time. In fact, there is a chapter in which agni was asked if she saw God, to which she said no. Can anyone see God? No, you can only feel him. Can you see wind? No, you can only feel it. Nobody is born with a religion. I even sang this, Entha Kuzhanthaiyum Nalla Kuzhanthaiythan, Mannuil Pirrakayile.' I sincerely hope, people don't fight over religion, considering what's happening in the world. 
 
