Oh,   — those happy mid-week evenings when being a woman is an actual advantage — it lets you slip into a bar without a cover charge, and gives you sweet discounts on the drinks. 

 But now,  , in what seems like a classic victim-blaming, responsibility-evading move, wants to ban these events in   because they make women drink too much and endanger their own safety.
 
 Mansi Bhasin, a content writer based in Gurgaon who often attends ladies' nights at Soi7, a popular watering hole in Cyber Hub, points out that banning these events will not make the city any safer. "Ladies' nights make us feel special…cocktails are on the house and the DJ takes more requests than on other days," says Bhasin adding that she often sees women sitting alone and enjoying their drink on these nights.
 
 "They order beer or wine and not necessarily free cocktails because they are here to enjoy their own company rather than free drinks… something they can't do alone on other nights without attracting undue attention," says Bhasin.
 
 Teena Baruah, an HR manager with Pan Macmillan, says that ladies' nights provide many women with the physical space to entertain friends. "Women who stay with their families may not feel comfortable inviting their friends home for drinks but they can do so on ladies' nights. One automatically feels more relaxed and safe on ladies' nights," says Baruah, calling for more exclusive spaces for women. "Fathers and sons often go out to bars and enjoy a couple of beers. Do you see any mother-daughter pairs sitting and sipping beer at any place? It's rare. Ladies' nights allow us women to enjoy drinks with our mothers, daughters, sisters and girlfriends without people staring or judging us," she says.
 
 The concept of hosting an exclusive night for ladies' with free drinks started in India around 15 years ago. "It was a time when women rarely used to drink outside socially," says Advaita Kala, hospitality professional and author of Single in the City. "Even at house parties, I remember, only men used to hang around the bar while the women would be at the other end of the room, sipping soft drinks and mocktails. Restaurants and bars started hosting ladies' nights to encourage women to drink outside. It also made marketing sense for them. More women meant more men would follow, and increase business," says Kala.
 
 While ladies' nights may only be a clever marketing move, the idea of organising women's-only events and spaces has a long history, right from the first wave of feminism that underscored the importance of having ‘a room of one's own'.
 
 Now, well into the 21st century, women are still reclaiming public spaces, creating cubbyholes of their own.
 
 Ladies' nights became popular in Indian cities when the boom in IT and BPO jobs was in full swing. Cities were teeming with young women with newfound financial freedom and aspiration to party outside parental supervision. For them, the ladies' night with its free drinks became a space to get their first mojitos or martinis and enjoy good music and food with their hard-earned beginner's salaries, in places otherwise dominated by men. It was an expression of their financial as well as social freedom. 
 
 Kala, however, believes that women don't need sequestered spaces "as they enable patriarchy", though she's all for strategic networking spaces for women. "I feel that women need to have exclusive networking clubs. Just like men organically form boys clubs in offices, in business, in Bollywood, we need strategic networking to further our personal lives and freedom," she says. 
 
 There are other women like Kala who consider ladies' nights as sexist. "I don't understand what there is to celebrate on a ladies' night? Exclusion? Lack of safe spaces for women? We should feel safe everywhere and every day, not just on a Wednesday," says Pratishtha Dobhal, a freelance writer, filmmaker and blogger in Delhi. She alleges that many places spike drinks on ladies' nights or use cheap booze to make cocktails. "The only time I have seen women brawl in a bar is on a ladies' night and that's because they were served cheap alcohol," Dobhal says.
 
 Author Meenakshi Reddy Madhavan seconds Dobhal on bars using cheap alcohol but she doesn't find ladies' nights sexist. "I don't find the idea of a separate coach for women in the metro sexist either. The men in India being the way they are — patriarchal, entitled and often prone to sexual violence — women need special places carved out for them now more than ever. It'll start being sexist when the men stop making it so unsafe everywhere else" says Reddy. Say salut, and raise a toast to that thought.
 
