HYDERABAD: A doctor, who is also a TRS member, has said that he would have no option but to approach the court if permission was not given to him to speak at  . “If need be, I will also quit the TRS. All I want to do is to express myself,“ A S Rao, who also runs a nursing home, told TOI.Rao, who did his medicine from  , said he had promised in his representation to the authorities that he would not speak anything that would “damage the sanctity of Mecca Masjid“.

 Asked why he was so particular to speak at a masjid, he said that was because the MIM was being allowed to speak after the namaz.
 
 Rao has sought permission to speak on the third Friday of the month of Ramzan, which falls on June 16.
 
 The 47-year-old is also quite open about his political ambitions. “I intend to contest from e Hyderabad   se the Hyderabad Lok Sabha seat in the next elections in 2019,“ he said.
 
 He said he had tried for the seat from in 2014 but did not succeed.
 
 “Even if I am denied a ticket this time, I will still go ahead and contest,“ he said.
 
 Earlier, for 10 years, he was in the   . He did not get the party's nomination to contest the Karwan assembly seat as the BJP got to contest it in understanding with the Telugu Desam Party .
 
 In response to a question on why he was keen on using Mecca Masjid as a platform to speak, he said in no other masjid in the country , political speeches were allowed.
 
 “In any case, I do not wish to speak about politics, but about the lack of development in Old City ,“ he said.
 
 Rao is furious that minorities welfare secretary Omer Jaleel has not responded to his request for permission to speak at Mecca Masjid. He had made a representation on April 27. The City Police Commissioner, too, has been approached but he has not got a response from there as well.
 
 “They are not responding because they have no valid reason to deny me permission. In such circumstances, I may have to approach the court,“ he said.
 
 Allowing Rao to speak would be a `sensitive issue', but he is willing to follow any condition that is laid down to allow him to speak.
 
