The wedding bells for Bhushan Shinde rang on Tuesday only after he made a quick visit to the polling booth to exercise his franchise.

 In order to urge the guests who were attending his wedding to vote, this banker from Makhmalabad in Panchavati area made it a point to press the four buttons of the electronic voting machine (EVM) before heading to his wedding ceremony on Aurangabad Road.
 
 Bhushan, who is in his 20s, was not the only one who made a visit to the polling station. His parents and other family members too exercised their franchise before attending the marriage rituals.
 
 “As a citizen, exercising my franchise is extremely important. So, I made it a point to cast my vote before getting married. In fact my entire family cast their vote with me before coming to the wedding ceremony. We have also appealed to our guests to first vote and then attend the wedding,” said Bhusan.
 
 Even Bhushan’s friends who were busy making arrangements for the wedding made time from their busy schedules to rush to the polling booths and cast their vote.
 
 A friend of the groom, Atul Shinde said, “If we speak about bringing a change in the society then we should do what has been asked of us to do as citizens. Exercising our electoral franchise is the most important responsibility to bring about the desired change in the society.”
 
 Following Bhushan’s footsteps of being a responsible citizen is a bride. Bhagyashree Jagtap, a resident of Manekshaw Nagar near Dwarka, who exercised her franchise a day ahead of her wedding.
 
 Not only has Bhagyashree set the example of a good citizen but also broken the belief that a bride should not leave her house after the Haldi. The bride made sure that she visited the polling station in her area around 8am and cast her vote.
 
 There are about 35 wedding halls along Aurangabad Road, but wedding ceremonies were conducted only at two of the halls on Tuesday morning as most people rushed to the polling booths across the city to cast their vote.
 
 Wishing to bring about a change in the society with their stories, these soon-to-be married youths hoped that the new corporators go beyond providing basic facilities to their ward. 
 
 “I hope that the new corporators help in uplifting our area than just providing us with good water and infrastructure. I want our area to be so well developed that people should come from all over the country to see Makhmalabad. My aim is to let people know that no matter how big an occasion may be in one’s life, if it is the voting day, everyone should make it a point to cast their vote,” said Bhushan.
 
 However Bhushan’s bride, Suvarna Jadhav from Niphad, could not vote in the Zilla Parishad polls as she had to travel all the way from Niphad to make it in time for their wedding ceremony.
 
 
