NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has ordered a judicial probe by a magistrate into the custodial death of a 24year-old fruit seller at Adarsh Nagar police station in northwest Delhi.

 The preliminary postmortem report says that the body of the man, Sompal, had blunt force injuries across the body with ante-mortem -before death -injuries on the face, head and knees.
 
 While a fall from a height and the circumstances --whether he was thrown off or jumped on his own -will be clear only in the final report, the cause of death is stated to be excessive bleeding and external as well as internal injuries, said police sources. The autopsy has been conducted by a medical board at   and the final report is expected by the end of this week, said sources.
 
 This not only indicates that the man was assaulted at the police station before his death but also indicts the cops who had brought him there. The report will pave the way for punitive action and the cops will have no choice but to arrest the rogue policemen for culpable homicide and destruction of evidence.
 
 Meanwhile, a magistrate will soon record the statement of the six accused cops along with that of the IO who first reached the spot where the body was found. The magistrate will also record statements of other policemen, including duty officers.
 
 The judicial inquiry will also probe lapses on the police's part and ascertain why an FIR was registered on the night of December 31 when, according to their own admission in the FIR, the facts of the case had emerged a day before.
 
 Delhi Police has prepared an elaborate report on the incident and the action taken by the police. This will be sent to the ministry of home affairs and  .
 
 Meanwhile, in yet another flip flop, the police brass has decided not to let   probe the case of custodial death, sources said. The reasons for this are not known but sources say the senior officials decid ed that the district investigation unit of   will probe the case. Special commissioner S B K Singh will monitor the probe.
 
 Sources pointed out that the Crime Branch should have taken over the case according to norm. There is a standing order in this regard.
 
 Officers agreed that an impartial probe cannot be carried out unless it is done by a unit out of the district or range where the accused cops were posted.
 
 The action taken against rogue cops in this case has puzzled many in the department as well. For a force which has dismissed its staffers for throwing stones at women or for other derelictions, mere suspension in this grave crime is intriguing.
 
 Sompal, 24, was found dead near a drain on December 30, two days after he was taken to the police station by cops after getting embroiled in an argument at  .
 
 A probe has revealed that he mysteriously “fell off “ the terrace of the police station after which cops dumped his body at a deserted stretch near a Metro station to make it look like an accident or an unidentified body case. An FIR has been registered against the policemen.
 
