Mumbai:   Urjit Patel, who surprised markets on Wednesday by announcing the monetary policy committee’s decision to hold rates, has now said that interest rates might go up. Explaining what the RBI meant by shifting its stance to neutral, Patel on Friday told CNBC TV18 that the   now has the option of hiking rates depending on the direction of inflation. The governor indicated that there is little headroom to ease rates, pointing out that the MPC is committed to move closer to the 4% inflation target. 

 “We needed to look beyond the headline number to see where the kind of disinflation that is needed to take us towards 4% would come from, and the committee felt that inflation, excluding food and fuel, is something that has been stubborn since September-October and has shown a little sign of coming decisively below 5%,” said Patel.
 
 According to Patel, the RBI decided to ‘look through’ the current level of low inflation as crash in vegetable prices, triggered partly by  , was temporary. Also, global commodity prices are expected to push up inflation. 
 
 “Internationally, commodity, food and base metal prices have firmed up. Crude prices continue to be in the mid-50s and are staying there for some time given the data of past few months. So, the MPC noted that while inflation will be in the range of 4-4.5% in the first half of FY18, it then increases to 4.5-5%.”
 
 The governor warned of global volatility arising out of US President Donald Trump’s protectionist policies. “The change in policies from the largest economy in the world is something that the world will have to start getting used to. It is a major change in terms of openness to trade, in terms of trade barriers, in terms of the kind of fiscal policy that the new government may undertake, which against a backdrop of a tightening monetary policy stance by the US Fed, has a real possibility of financial volatility going forward,” said Patel.
 
 On US protectionism, Patel said that India should not change its policy of globalisation as it has stood the country in good stead. “I think one issue that people are not realising is that there will be a reaction to what the US does. That could get messy. Hopefully, wiser heads will prevail and we won’t go down that road,” said Patel.
 
 
