CHANDIGARH: Mention  , and what flashes across the mind is Northern Lights, snow and the Santa Claus village in Lapland. But now, it could also be a Punjabi from   and a champion club made up exclusively of Punjab-origin kids ­ right in the heart of Helsinki.

 The Finnish capital has about 1200 people of Indian community. But  , a 39-year-old former   player from Moga, Punjab, is doing what Finland never even thought of. If it's hockey in Finland, it had to be on ice ­ until Bikramjit, more popularly known as   in the Indian hockey sphere, woke up the   to life on astro-turf.
 
 Even today, if you search   on Google, it throws up ice hockey results; but if you punch Warriors Hockey Club, Helsinki, you will come across Vicky and a dream that he has turned into a champion. In 2013, nine years after he moved to Finland and a year after an almost fatal accident, Vicky spelt out his dream to FHA. A surprised but excited association nodded in the affirmative, giving birth to the Warriors Hockey Club. In just four years, the club's under-12 hockey team ­ comprising nine kids of Punjab origin, one from south India and just a solitary Finnish ­ has become champion of FHA 's Indoor Hockey League.
 
 Winning five of their six matches in the four-team league, the Warriors clinched the title finishing top of the table with 15 points.
 
 A hockey club from Helsinki including names like Jobanveer Singh Khaira, Hardeep Singh Khaira, Parampreet Singh Gill, Gurdit Singh Gill, Sumit Saini, Arjunjit Singh, Adit Phull, Manraj Sahota, Karam Singh Gill and Satwik Velpula surely demands turnchin attention, and Vicky has been the centre of this achievement.
 
 Of the above, Arjunjit, a forward, is Vicky's son and Parampreet was adjudged the league's best player. The only Finnish player in the squad is Alix Gibson.
 
 “It's a dream come true,“ said Vicky , who is also a qualified umpire and a member of the Finland Hockey Association, besides being the coach and president of Warriors Hockey Club. “When I was bed-ridden for a year after my accident, I wondered if I could ever return to normal life,“ a product of Sports School, Jalandhar, and Government Brijindra College, Faridkot, said.
 
 “That's when I realized the best I know is hockey , and whatever I do after recovering had to do something with hockey ,“ said Vicky , who is an under-19 national as well as all-India inter-university gold medallist, where he struck 23 goals on penalty corners.
 
 The only earning member of his family and an MBA student now, Bikramjit said he can't thank Finland enough to ensure his financial security and emotional well-being.
 
 “Had it not been for the insurance I have here, my life would have been in tatters,“ said Vicky , who still has a part of his left body numb. “Till date and until I recover fully , the insurance is paying me the same salary I used to earn before my accident,“ said Vicky , who worked for eight years as a cool in a Finnish restaurant.
 
 But it is Finland's turn now to thank Vicky and the Punjab-heavy Warriors ­ as field hockey gets a chance to take a giant leap in the land of Santa Claus.
 
 
