AGRA: A day after the mother and brother of  , the   who gunned down four fellow paramilitary men in Bihar’s Aurangabad, said they had informed   authorities much before the tragedy happened about his manic depression, the pradhan of his native village in  , Jai Veer Singh told TOI that Balbir Singh’s brother had given a letter to CISF officials when he was posted in   about the jawan’s mental condition and that precautions should have been taken.

 Aligarh senior superintendent of police Rajesh Pandey, too, said that the information with the police also indicates that Singh was mentally unwell and in no position to carry out his duties with the CISF.
 
 He said the day the incident occurred, he had sent police officers to the village to find out more details. He said according to the feedback from the local residents, Singh was said to be mentally unfit and was undergoing treatment.
 
 Talking to TOI, Raupur village headman Jai Veer Singh said the jawan’s elder brother Sher Singh, who died in 2015, was his close friend and he knew that Balbir Singh had undergone treatment for mental illness in Jharkhand in 2011. “He had anger issues,” said sources privy to his medical condition. 
 
 “At that time, Sher Singh had written a letter to the CISF authorities about his medical problem and requested them not to give him any firearms,” the pradhan said.
 
 However, CISF spokesperson Manjeet Singh denied receiving any such information and told TOI that neither any family member nor Balbir Singh had ever told anyone about any medical issues.
 
 The CISF had asserted that Singh killed the four men — Bacha Sharma, Amarnath Mishra (both head constables), GS Ram (assistant sub inspector) and Arvind Ram (havildar) — in a fit of rage, since he was upset that he was denied leave.
 
 In 2011in Bokaro – his second posting with the CISF, Balbir Singh had nearly killed the driver of a car he was travelling in. “He suddenly held the driver’s neck and it was impossible to free the poor man, who nearly suffocated to death,” a relative said. Then in 2013, in a murderous assault on his own wife, he hit her with the butt of his service rifle, splitting open her head. The constable had joined the CISF in 2008.
 
 Singh’s younger brother Vinod Singh said that no one from his unit had contacted the family so far. “Only an inspector from Aurangabad had called and we have had no word with Balbir Singh so far,” he said, adding that he will be visiting Aurangabad in a couple of days to meet his brother.
 
