PANAJI: Its rout in  , where two senior-most leaders –former chief minister   and Rajendra Arlekar – were defeated by a margin of over 5,000 each, is a matter of concern for the   (BJP), party sources said. 

 After 15 years BJP has drawn a blank in the taluka which took it over two decades to cultivate.
 
 In the Mandrem constituency, Congress’   has been touted as the big winner for defeating Parsekar with a lead of 7,119 votes. The significant lead drawn by the Congress candidate must have come as a shock to Parsekar and his supporters, even as poll pundits had warned that he would have it tough this time.
 
 This election, Parsekar polled 9,371 votes while his rival Sopte got a total of 16,490 votes, giving him the type of lead none of the candidates in the past had. 
 
 Even at the height of the anti-Congress wave in the March 2012 assembly polls, Parsekar’s lead was a modest 3,435; his rival then too was Sopte.
 
 As compared to the 2012 assembly elections, this time Parsekar polled 2,584 less votes although he was confident of retaining his seat for a fourth term.
 
 Poll pundits believe that with the fight being primarily between Parsekar and Sopte, there was no division of votes even as it was anticipated that MGP candidate Shridhar Manjrekar may poll at least 3,000 votes. In contrast to the tall claims by MGP and GSM leaders, Manjrekar got only 678 votes while the AAP candidate secured 620 votes. 
 
 In the Pernem constituency Arlekar lost to Azgaonkar by 6,030 votes in a direct fight. Azgaonkar polled a total of 15,745 votes. Interestingly, total votes polled by Arlekar in March 2012 was 16,406 while his then opponent Azgaonkar had contested on a Congress ticket. Azgaonkar had quit the Congress to join MGP less than a month before the 2017 assembly elections.
 
 The voting pattern in both the constituencies appear similar. People voted against the two sitting ministers and gave their rivals big leads. Also, the newly-elected candidates, Sopte and Azgaonkar, have a strong presence in their respective constituencies which made their win comfortable.
 
 With this being a pattern, it doesn’t appear an easy task for any party to make gains in the two constituencies even as it is premature to make political readings as to what the future holds.
 
 This election, former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar polled 9,371 votes while his rival Dayanand Sopte got a total of 16,490 votes, giving him the type of lead none of the candidates in the past had
 
