LUCKNOW: The goal keeper kicked a surprise even for himself when his foot work qualified him for the national finals of ‘The Million Dollar Kick’ on Thursday. Famous for his quick reflexes and agility on the   ground at Chowk Stadium, goal keeper   of the   was playing at Siri Fort ground, New Delhi.

 The 20-year old goalkeeper took the first step towards American football in the NFL, unaware of the fact that the competition will land him into the grand finals of ‘The Million Dollar Kick’ in India.
 
 Talking to TOI, Arshad said, “I was not aware it is such a big event. Secretary of district football association Kanhaiya Lal told us there is a football trial in Delhi and we should participate. We were told whoever kicks more than 50 metres would be a winner, but I was surprised to see that we were given American football at the competition. I stuck to the techniques my coach and sir Ashwani Pandey and Kanhaiya Lal had taught and made it to the finals.” 
 
 Giving a peek into his journey so far, Arshad said, “I began playing football at the age of 10 and it was my father   who inspired me to make a career in football. I have grown up watching him play and I want to fulfil his dream by making a mark in the world of sports,” he added. 
 
 He said he and his friend Mohammad Ali were the only two from Lucknow who participated three-day trials among nearly100 participants from Northern India. “Out of five selected for the finals I was announced winner for outstanding performance and have been awarded 15,000 US dollars prize money,” said the young footballer.
 
 Arshad, who has played for Lucknow University in Under-16 and Under-19 state teams, topped the Delhi leg with the best kick of 61 yards, as against the NFL record of 64 yards, set by Matt Prater in 2013. Arshad was one of the seven players chosen for the National Finals to be held at a venue and date to be announced later. The winner will be trained and given a try out in NFL in the  .
 
 The   was presented by creators of the world-famous Million Dollar Arm franchise that helped Rinku Singh and Dinesh Patel play in the US Major League Basesball and the Delhi-based sports marketing and events company Sports Mantra.
 
 “The city has produced great cricketers but no footballers of fame and Arshad may be the one,” said LU sports in charge A Bajpayee.
 
 
