HYDERABAD: As feared by the Telangana government, the newly introduced Goods and   (GST) has administered a big shock to the state. In a development that the state is still trying to figure out, the first month of   implementation showed a dip of `800 crore in the revenue.In July, the first month of GST, Telangana received Rs 850 crore under state GST, Rs 690 crore from petroleum products which are not under GST, Rs 500 crore from the sale of liquor, and `150 crore from other taxes. Through central GST, the state contributed around Rs 518 crore and another Rs1,000 crore was estimated to be collected as Integrated GST (IGST), and both these amounts were credited to the Government of India account. A senior official said, “The tax collected on products coming in from other states and consumed here will come under IGST. Though Telangana has a share in that, there is no clarity over the amount to be shared by each state.“

 Inflicting more pain on the state, the Centre has postponed devolution of central funds to states to 15th of every month as against the first. The delay is creating havoc as states are left with no money after paying salaries, pensions in first week.
 
 Adding to the woes, the Centre has once again extended the date of the filing of GST returns. The due date for the filing of returns for GSTR-1 has been revised to October 10 from September 10. While GSTR-2 has a revised due date of October 31 from September 25, GSTR-3 has been revised to November 10 from September 30. The dates for filing returns of GSTR-4 for the tax period of July to September 2017 remains unchanged at October 18.
 
 “We are now clueless as to when we would get our rightful share in the GST from the Centre as it has to adjust the accounts after the returns are filed,“ said an official in the revenue department.
 
 In June, a month before the launch of GST, Telangana collected `3,200 crore revenue through commercial taxes, excise, transport and other taxes. After GST came into force in July, the state received only Rs 2,400 crore, which is Rs 800 crore less than what it had earned in the previous month. Another disadvantage for Telangana is that it would not get compensation for loss of revenue as the state already reported more than 14 per cent annual growth in the tax revenue. In the GST regime, states with less than 14 per cent growth are eligible for making a claim for compensation. The figures related to August has not yet been compiled but state officials apprehend that tough days are ahead for the state with regard to the implementation of GST.
 
 
