BENGALURU: With his recent announcement removing value-added tax (VAT) on   from April 1, chief minister   might have raised the spirits of pub-goers in the state, but those who buy liquor from retail outlets would feel the pinch since the prices are set to go up drastically. 

  The budget proposal to hike additional excise duty (AED) on liquor will ultimately result in increase in the retail price and even cause booming of illegal sales of non-duty paid (NDP) liquor and spurious liquor. 
 
 Siddaramaiah, who also holds the finance portfolio, has in his budget 2017-18 proposed to hike the AED levied on liquor in the range between 6 % and 21 % depending on declared price slab. This comes at a time when the chief minister has proposed to abolish 5.5 % value added tax (VAT) on beer, wine, fenny and hard liquor consumed at bars and restaurants. With this, the government aims to mop up Rs 18,050 crore through liquor sales in the fiscal year 2017-18 as compared to the estimated Rs 16,410 crore in the previous year. 
 
 Since the move to increase retail prices comes at a time when there’s a dip in consumption of liquor and beer, trade experts have expressed concern over NDP liquor sales rearing its head in the state. “The non-duty paid liquor was a menace in the state decades ago and it is now under control. However, we are now into a precarious situation where in the very consumption of liquor is coming down for various reasons and the government is seeking to increase duty on it. It may force people to go for cheaper liquor which could be NDP,” said M Karunakar Hegde, vice-president, Federation of Karnataka Wine Merchants Associations.
 
 Statistics with the   show 525 lakh cases of Indian made liquor (IML) were sold in the current fiscal year till March 15, while 570 lakh cases (a case contains 12 bottles of 750ml liquor) were sold last year. And the beer sale has come down to 232 lakh cases from 260 lakh cases sold last year. “In the normal course, there should be an average 10 % growth in the sales. But this year, the growth has been negative. While drought might be the main reason, high prices might have added to it,” said S K Shivaiah, excise deputy director (statistics).
 
 A rough calculation shows that a 750ml bottle of Johnnie Walker Black Label blended Scotch whisky that is now being sold at Rs 525 will cost Rs 580 from April 1. Tipplers have to pay Rs 272 more for a bottle of Johnnie Walker XR blended whisky which now available for Rs 2,600. A 750ml bottle of Cîroc Snap Frost Vodka will get dearer by Rs 136; it costs Rs 1,300 at present.
 
 “If the official records show a drastic dip liquor consumption, that doesn’t mean that people are drinking less. The trend shows that they are going for cheaper means and there is a clear indication of sales of NDP and other illegal liquor are back. And the proposed hike in the retail price would worsen the situation,” said Honnagiri Gowda of Bangalore Wine Merchants Association.
 
 The non-duty paid liquor is the cheap liquor smuggled into the state from across the border mainly from Goa. The NDP liquor is cheaper since they are manufactured without licence. As they don’t pay licence fee and the government levies, including excise duty (Rs 50 per litre), AED, 10 % retail margin, and others, the manufacturers of NDP liquor could offer the drink at a cheaper price. While a 750ml bottle of a common brand whisky costs around Rs 1,000, the NDP is priced between Rs 500 and Rs 700.
 
 “However, this comes at the cost of quality of the liquor while it causes revenue loss to the government. People should never encourage this illegal means of liquor sales,” said Shivaiah.
 
 An excise official said over 1,500 bottles of NDP were caught near Belagavi last month and that the trend is likely to continue stronger in the coming days.
 
