MUMBAI: Two days after she courted controversy for her anti-azaan tweet and faced a backlash from abusive trolls, including rape threats,   Suchitra Krishnamoorthi on Wednesday lodged a complaint with Oshiwara police. Muslim community leaders, through opposing abusive trolls, have slammed the actor for her “insensitive” tweet aimed at gaining “cheap publicity”.

 In the complaint, the actor said, “I was sexually abused through social media after I   about   call in my neigbourhood.” The actor had tagged the tweet to Mumbai Police, seeking advice on “how action can be taken against such violent sexual trolling?” Oshiwara police said a case against unknown persons had been registered under section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty of a woman) of the IPC and under section 66 (A) (any person who sends by means of a computer resource or a communication device and the information that is grossly offensive or has menacing character) of the IT Act. Police are taking help from the cyber cell to track down the accused.
 
 Community leaders said Krishnamoorthi should not have called azaan “extreme imposed religiosity”. “As an Indian Muslim, I am more disturbed by her tweet where she called India ‘the rape capital of the world’ than her comment against azaan, which has been practiced for centuries. She tried to downgrade India, for which she should apologise,” said Mahim Dargah’s managing trustee Suhail Khandwani. Krishnamoorthi had on July 24 tweeted: “Came home at 4.45 am 2 most aggressive/ear shattering call of azaan. Nothing more lowlife & dumb than such extreme imposed religiousity.” Soon, she received a flurry of abusive messages. Sharing some of them, she tweeted: “Look at these perverts! Feel sorry for my India -with this kind of attitude towards women its no wonder we’ve become rape capital of d world.”
 
 Calling Krishnamoorthi’s tweet a way to get “cheap publicity”, MIM legislator, advocate Waris Pathan, said she should not have spoken against azaan, which lasts less than a minute. “Azaan has been practiced for the last 1400 years and it is not proper on the part of people like Sonu Nigam and Suchitra Krishnamoorthi to object to it,” said Pathan.
 
 Among those who defended the actor were her ex-husband Shekhar Kapur, who tweeted: “Trolling arguments is acceptable. But if @Twitter want to survive in India they have to stop such rampant disgusting sexual abuse.”
 
 (With inputs from V Narayan)
 
