PANAJI: Porvorim residents wake up every morning to a nightmare of traffic chaos and pollution along NH 17. Sneha Pednekar, a school teacher who lives near the   at Porvorim circle, finds it difficult to manoeuver through the constant traffic jams during peak hours, and her troubles have only aggravated, as the adjoining circle which served as a pass is closed.

 “From the past six months, I’ve had to drive for a whole kilometer to ACDIL School, Porvorim, and then turn to get home. This is very time consuming. Also, there must be traffic signals put up near   at the Sai Servce junction, so that people who get off the bus can safely cross the road. We are usually stuck for 10 to 15 minutes at that spot, during peak hours,” she said.
 
 Constant traffic jams during peak hours, haphazard construction works and self-directed diversion of buses through the bylanes of Porvorim have left many residents frustrated. Shraddha Palni, a software engineer at Verna-based Persistent Systems, said that it takes her one-and-half hours to get home when the distance from Verna to Porvorim is just half an hour.
 
 “Construction of the new bridge isn’t managed properly. The roads are very narrow and people don’t have traffic sense. It could have been managed better by the police, but it’s not. The only place they monitor traffic is at the mouth of the bridge and at the Holy Family Church, Porvorim,” Palni said.
 
 Buses diverted through the interior roads of Porvorim is also adding to the woes of residents. Senior journalist Cyril D’cunha said, “These are roads running through residential areas, used by joggers and school children. Private bus owners cannot decide for themselvs which route to take, without paying heed to the woes of the locals.” 
 
 “The government doesn’t have a traffic plan in place to tackle congestion. Goa needs an efficient transport system and complete transparency, sound analysis and logical planning when it comes to infrastructure,” another resident,  , said.
 
 Deputy superintendent, Goa traffic police, Dharmesh Angle said, “The width of the roads has reduced due to ongoing construction, so the volume of traffic seems more. There is no use of adding more traffic police along the route since the congestion is only at the mouth of the bridge. There are no immediate solutions to this problem.”
 
