KANPUR:   (SP) patriarch   on Sunday said he regretted making his son   as the chief minister of the state, and added that the party would have performed better if he had taken on the throne in 2012.

 "Had I been the chief minister, SP couldn't have suffered such a major debacle in the recently held assembly election. The party would have achieved the required number to form government in the state," said Mulayam Singh Yadav while talking to media persons after unveiling a statue of martyr Dharmendra Yadav in Junesa village in the Karhal area of Mainpuri in   on Sunday. 
 
 The Samajwadi party patron also attacked   saying that it (Congress) is responsible for the "poor" show of the party in the assembly elections in the state.
 
 "Forging an alliance with Congress was a big mistake, and it has only led to a major debacle of Samajwadi Party. It is the same Congress that left no stone unturned to send him to jail by registering fake cases against him and several other Samajwadi party leaders," said Mulayam Singh.
 
 Mulayam further said that he had advised him (Akhilesh) not to form an alliance with the Congress party, but he did not pay any heed and went ahead anyway. 
 
 "Samajwadi Party itself is responsible for its defeat and not the people of the state," he said 
 
 Mulayam also termed PM Narendra Modi as a "thug(Swindler)...who had only duped people". "He (Modi) had cheated people as he had promised Rs 15 lakh in every bank account, yet couldn't even give Rs 15,000," he said. 
 
 He also attacked his cousin Ram Gopal Yadav and accused him of spending money to ensure Shivpal's defeat in Jaswantnagar (Etawah). "When I came to know about the same, I had to address a rally in Jaswantnagar for garnering support for Shivpal in the run up to the assembly elections to counter Ram Gopal's attempt," he said. 
 
 He also justified Shivpal's recent remark on Ram Gopal calling him 'Shakuni'. 
 
 "Whatever Shivpal had said about Ram Gopal is true, and whatever he (Ram Gopal Yadav) has been doing is even worse than what 'Shakuni' did," the SP patriarch said. He added that Ram Gopal is not doing anything for the welfare of the party and is only working for his vested interests.
 
 On being questioned over his sibling  's latest anouncement to form a new party and declaring him as the 'head' of the new front, he said, "Efforts should be made to only to strengthen the Samajwadi Party."
 
 
 
