GURUGRAM: Parents of a three-month-old girl, who was admitted to   on Wednesday, alleged negligence by the hospital staff after she succumbed to a  . The girl, who had a hole in the heart, was allegedly made to wait as there were no doctors in the OPD.

 The parents said the child’s treatment was further delayed as they didn’t carry any valid medical records of the girl. Later the child, they said, was put on a nebuliser after her condition started deteriorating. The doctor, who attended the child, had last year faced medical negligence charge, sources said. The girl, Vanshika, belonged to Badshapur’s Nurpur village.
 
 A doctor from the hospital on condition of anonymity told TOI that the child was born with a hole in her heart. Vanshika suffered from difficulty in breathing on Wednesday morning, following which she was rushed to the General Hospital in Civil Lines by her father Baburam. Vanshika’s OPD card was ready by 11am and after that she was taken to the pediatric OPD, where Dr Umesh Mehta was on duty. Baburam alleged the “doctor asked them to leave the OPD as they did not carry Vanshika’s health report”.
 
 “I asked a relative to get the reports, but by then it was already 12:30pm. When her health condition started deteriorating, the doctor examined the child and referred her to emergency room,” said Baburam.
 
 Even after this ordeal the treatment didn’t start, he alleged. Later the baby was put on a nebuliser. But soon, the father was asked to take the child to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) to get an X-ray done. It took, Baburam said, around two hours to get the whole process done, and “by then the child had started sinking”.
 
 After getting her X-ray done, Baburam rushed her daughter to the emergency ward where Dr Mehta was supposed to attend her. Shockingly, he said, Dr Mehta wasn’t there.
 
 Sources said he had gone to Galaxy Hotel in Sector 15 for lunch. Dr Radhesh Pathak from NICU ward was called in, but the child had died around 3pm before he could reach. Sources said Dr Mehta faced negligence charge after a child’s death last year too. “Dr Mehta was transferred to Mewat after the incident, but he was transferred back to Gurugram in four months,” said a senior doctor.
 
 “We have asked Dr Radesh Pathak and Dr Beena Singh to submit a fact-finding report,” said Dr Kanta Goyal, principal medical officer, Gurugram.
 
