HYDERABAD: For 31-year-old Anjum Fatima of Vijaynagar in Old Malakpet in the city, it came as a shock when her employer made sexual advances towards her in  . 

 “I call you baba and treat you like my father. Don’t you understand the meaning,” Anjum told her 66-year-old   (employer) in Al-Qassim. Anjum tried to make him understand that family compulsions had brought her to  . She was in need of money and had come to work. “I want to earn my salary in a decent way. I cannot be taken for granted,” she told the man. 
 
 The man did not stop. “Though you call me baba, I am not your baba. Your father is in Hyderabad. You have to give in to my demand,” the kafil told Anjum. “He tried to approach me two more times. I was determined not to give in,” Anjum told TOI. 
 
 She was caught in a situation with no way out. Anjum had no phone to call her husband Quddus Mohd in Hyderabad. When she finally managed to call him it was from a phone of her kafil’s wife. She told her husband how she was being treated and he advised her not give in to the demand and told her how to handle the situation. Anjum took up the matter with the kafil’s wife. “I told the wife of the kafeel how her husband was making advances,” Anjum said. The kafeel protested his innocence. 
 
 Anjum says she was promised by an agent that she would be employed in Madina as a cook, but was sent to Al-Qassim on June 16, 2016. Instead of the 1,500-riyals salary promised to her per month, she got only 400-600 riyals. When she wanted to leave the job, she was asked to pay 15,000 riyals to be relieved and as this was reportedly the amount paid by the kafil to the agents.
 
 Showing her strength in the face of danger, Anjum threatened her employer that she would go to the police. Anjum finally returned back home in four months, in spite of her agents in Hyderabad and Mumbai giving her trouble.
 
 “Agents have been cheating many women and men from Hyderabad. They promise one thing but another thing happens,” said Quddus, Anjum‘s husband. The couple say agents dupe gullible women, but when they land there the place of work, salary and nature of job are all different from what was promised. Anjum said she survived a tough situation and hopes no one goes through the trauma she did.
 
 
