AURANGABAD: Different construction and repair works at   here have been progressing at a snail’s pace with activists accusing the   of continuing to ignore the  . 

 A spot visit to the station by TOI on Tuesday revealed that the works have not progressed much in 2017, even though the current fiscal year is nearing to an end.
 
 While the railways had promised that the works would be over by March 31, the deadline is likely to be missed going by the pendency of works. 
 
 The remains of a long compound wall that has collapsed more than a couple of years ago still creates an ugly welcome scene for passengers.
 
 Nothing much progressed in ensuring proper drinking and toilet facility at the station either. The set up constructed for providing drinking water does not have pipeline or taps with a section of passengers misusing the facility.
 
 The seating arrangements do not have sheds and passengers are exposed to heat during summer days. 
 
 The cleanliness and hygiene continue to be missing at the station, which was originally conceived for serving the northern and the eastern parts of the city, including the industrial areas of Chikalthana.
 
 The safety and vigilance also continue to take a beating at the station. 
 
 No policy decision regarding stoppage of express trains at Mukundwadi has been taken yet despite strong demand from passengers. The demand for starting reservation facility at the station is also pending for long. 
 
  of advocacy group   said he would be meeting general manager of the south-central railway shortly to apprise him about the issues plaguing development of Mukundwadi station.
 
 “Mukundwadi station looks like an abandoned railway property despite elevation to B-grade a couple of years ago. It pains to see the plight of the station which was conceptualized as a facility that would serve more than half of the city’s population,” he said.
 
 Varma alleged that inept management has slowed the development and maintenance work at the station. “While the railway ministry claims that it has speeded up overall governance system, we have classic examples like Mukundwadi to counter such claims.” 
 
 Formally inaugurated on January 9, 2000, the station witnesses sale of tickets worth Rs 30,000 per day towards passenger trains alone with figures shooting up to Rs 1 lakh during peak season days, activists said.
 
 When contacted, A K Sinha, divisional manager for SCR, Nanded division, said he would be visiting Mukundwadi station on Friday to take stock of progress of the works.
 
 “We are committed to development of Mukundwadi station; it would be carried out in a time-bound manner,” he said, adding that the roadblocks, if any, would be removed immediately. 
 
