PUNE: A Pune Municipal Corporation-run school, whose students come from slum areas with hardly any access to professional sports coaching, has been winning plaudits and   galore at state and national level sports competitions. 

 Katraj’s Y G Shinde Vidyaniketan’s current medal tally reads 200 and counting.
 
 The school officials claim that it is the only PMC-run institution to have sent students for national level sports competitions last year and also in the current year.
 
 “All children studying in our school come from very poor background. Their parents work as daily wage labourers. Most of them have migrated to Pune from different states. But the enthusiasm among the children for sports and even academics is tremendous,” said  , acting head mistress of the school, which has a total strength of about 325 students.
 
 The school started in 2012 with just two teachers and four students. “We used to go to nearby slums and urge parents to send their kids,” she recalled.
 
 But five years down the line, it has become the most sought after. “Altogether 70 students from private schools joined us recently,” beamed Mahajan.
 
 Ankush Mane, a teacher, has been the driving force behind the school’s success in sports. “The school conducts a two-hour special class from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm just for students who want to appear for sports scholarship exams. Though only a few students came for the special class initially, we started calling the rest of the students and imparted sports coaching in whatever way we could,” said Mane.
 
 The initiative started bearing fruit. In 2015-16, the school won above 100 medals in various sports events and also sent a student to the   organised by   (SGFI) in Manipur. “Our student Sahil Ansari won the bronze in the under-14 category in Thang-Ta, an Indian marital art. He is from UP and his father is a washerman. If this student can win a medal without any coaching, that too at the nationals, imagine what he can do with coaching,” asked Mane.
 
 In 2016-17, two students --- Bhumika P and Navnath Gunjal --- were selected for the nationals. “The students who get selected for participation at SGFI competitions get scholarships from the state government, which covers their college education. They are also become eligible to apply under the sports category in various colleges and government exams,” said Mane.
 
 The main attraction for students, said Mahajan, is the lure of medals and the cash prizes they receive from the government when they qualify for the district level. “When they qualify for the district level, they get a cheque of Rs 2,000 and a trophy. For these students that is a huge sum. They realize that they are good at something, which gives them a reason to achieve more in life,” said Mahajan.
 
 The trick to winning so many medals, said Mane, is to choose games which are new or do not have extremely strong opponents and doesn’t need expert coaching. “We choose ball badminton, skipping, various forms of martial arts that are upcoming,” said Mane.
 
 No matter what the game is, students participate in it. “Last year, we had no idea what a ball badminton was. So, we entered the event and just one hour before the event requested students of a private school to practice with our students. In the event, our students defeated this team and one of our students even played the nationals,” said Mane. The ratio of girls to boys’ participation in games is 60:40.
 
 The contribution of the teachers is worth mentioning. All of them come before the start of school. They spend long hours going through various sports disciplines online and request local sporting clubs and associations to come to the school and conduct free workshops. The teachers themselves have divided various sports disciplines amongst themselves and train students accordingly. 
 
 “The students are talented and extremely confident. All they need is their energy to be channelled in a proper direction, which is what we do,” said Mane.
 
