SURAT: During a recent survey,   officials asked Magan Rathod a labourer living at   in the town, what did he need to make life a bit easier. Rathod requested for a proper road and a primary school close to his house. However, when his wife Madhi, a house maid, was asked the same question, she promptly asked for a gas connection and 24x7  . After all, she had been inhaling noxious smoke of chula for years.

 The district administration sensed the want of Madhi and hundreds of women like her and embarked upon a plan to ensure that all households in four nagarpalikas of the district get cooking gas connections. 
 
 As a result, Navsari has become the first district in Gujarat where each and every household in the four nagarpalikas — Navsari, Gandeva, Bilimora and Vejalpore — have become free of smoke! 
 
 Also almost half othe rural households in the district have become smoke-free and remaining would be kerosene-free in another three months. 
 
 The district administration ran a campaign to find out the number of households using kerosene or chula. It was found that nearly 9,500 households in these four nagarpalikas still use traditional method of burning wood or kerosene in their kitchen for cooking and heating water.
 
 It was decided to provide all 8,331 with gas connections under   while remaining 1,169 were given connections under local scheme named Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas -. 
 
 Under this scheme , donors came forward to sponsor these 1,169 connections and they paid for the gas connections. The gas dealers have not also charged for connection to these families . 
 
 “ We have made Navsari the first district to be smoke-free in urban segment,” said Ravi Arora , district collector.
 
 Similarly, in the rural parts district, 1,11,315 households were don’t have gas connections. But till date, 41,000 have already been provided one under Ujjwala scheme and 2,500 have been sponsored by donors.
 
 “ We plan to complete providing all households with gas connections in the next three months,” said Arora.
 
 In sponsored connections, family has to pay just Rs 1,600 as security deposit and remaining amount of Rs 2,000 -3000 is given by the administration.
 
 This has resulted in saving of 60,000 litres of kerosene from urban segment, the collector said.
 
