NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old woman allegedly murdered her differently-abled   following an argument in Mandawali, northeast Delhi, on Tuesday night. The woman set the body on fire to make the crime look like the work of an outsider.

 DCP (east) Omvir Singh Bishnoi said the accused, identified as  , was arrested within eight hours of the murder of   (62) being reported to the police. She has been charged under IPC Section 302 (murder).
 
 Police officials said they received a call from the victim’s son, Sumit Kapoor, who said his mother has been murdered in their house. When police reached the spot, they found the victim’s half-burnt body on the ground floor. Investigations revealed the daughter-in-law had been on the first floor of the house at the time of the murder and she was subsequently questioned.
 
 Kanchan initially told police she had last seen the victim at around 10:30 pm, after which she had gone to her room upstairs to take care of her three children. However, on sustained interrogation, the accused confessed her crime, police said.
 
 Kanchan told the police she had a troubled relationship with her mother-in-law and alleged that the victim, and Sumit, had not been giving her money for basic amenities. The accused and the victim would frequently fight over money. The only source of income was the accused’s husband, who works at a fast food joint.
 
 On Tuesday night, Kanchan, trying to pacify her crying five-year-old child in her room on the first floor, slapped him in anger. On learning of that, the victim, who walks with the help of a walker, shouted at her. The two got into a heated exchange during which the victim verbally abused her daughter-in-law, police said.
 
 The accused wrested the walker from her mother-in-law and struck her with it on the forehead, knocking her unconscious, police said, adding they had recovered the walker. The accused then thought of making the incident look like a burglary gone horribly wrong. She poured mustard oil over her unconscious mother-in-law and set her on fire, police said.
 
 After the incident, the accused went to her room and changed her blood- and oil-stained clothes. When her husband returned from work two hours later, she feigned ignorance.
 
 Neighbours said there were frequent fights between the victim and the accused and police had been called on previous occasions.   had been married to Sumit for more than eight years.
 
