COIMBATORE: The district’s two most populated railway stations, Coimbatore and Mettupalayam, once among the state’s cleanest stations, suffered a rude shock on Wednesday when this year’s rail swatch rankings was released by railway minister  . The stations, which were ranked 63 and 24 overall, dropped steeply to the 72nd and 117th positions. 

 The drop in ranking was not only in the overall groupings, but also within their respective A and A1 categories. Mettupalayam, which was ranked 19 among the A category stations last year, fell to a dismal 50. Coimbatore, was which ranked 13 among the A1 stations last year, fell to the 33rd position.
 
 The stunned railway officials say they will closely study the parameters considered for the ranking and work on areas of improvement. “The ranking has definitely shaken us,” admitted a senior   division official. 
 
 “We have asked for more information and details regarding the new parameters, how they were rated and details of passenger feedback,” he said. 
 
 “We believe different parameters were taken into account like the parking area available, its maintenance, the main entry of the stations, quality of the waiting rooms, cleanliness of the platform and cleanliness of the staff,” said an official.
 
 Last year, more focus was laid on cleanliness of toilets, availability of toilets, cleanliness of the platforms, walls and even cleanliness of the tracks.
 
 Frequent users of the Coimbatore junction too believe that the station’s standards have not dropped much. “It has not deteriorated to the extent shown in the ranking,” said  , former president of the  .
 
 “Allotment of funds also plays a major role. If they allocate heavy funds to stations in constituencies or places they want to promote, they will look renovated, new and cleaner than our existing stations,” said president of the   P R Natarajan. “So, even if our station has not deteriorated severely, others may have got better. We also do not have a strong state government to go fight for more funds and changes in our state and division,” he said. 
 
 Rail users also claim the new rankings could be a ploy to promote tourism in certain stations. “It could also be to promote tourism in certain states by promoting the stations’ and their reputation,” said Natarajan.
 
