MUMBAI: While questions continue to abound on what could have driven 29-year-old piano wiz   to take his own life, his friends and associates from the music industry who believe he was in a good place in life, have had their fingers pointed at   (43), an Indian-American publisher and media entrepreneur in whose presence and from whose flat Karan leapt to his death on Saturday morning. Three days after the tragedy and a day after the police registered a case of 'abetment to suicide' against an unidentified person, Shah spoke to TOI about his association with Karan, who worked closely with Shah for a month till his death.

 Dismissing that he was “managing“ Karan, Shah insisted there was no contract they signed. “I was just getting to know Karan after I met him on August 5 for the first time. I keep signing on new talent and was looking for a keyboardist when a musician friend introduced us,“ said Shah, just back from a second round of interrogation at the Bandra police station on Tuesday .
 
 While Karan's bereaved parents and friends have been trying to rally information about the last hours of his life and are left wondering about some “glaring lapses“ (after some of them received text messages from Karan a few hours before he jumped that he was being “beaten up“), Shah claimed that Karan was a victim of bullying and felt abandoned by fellow musicians and friends. “Everyone was telling him they would not work with him if he continued working with me. He was a happy soul, but this left him shattered,“ Shah said.
 
 About the fateful night, he said Karan was not living with him but had his own place on Pali Hill. “He would sleep over at my home when we'd be working on music projects.That's why he was at my place that night. I had gone out for dinner with a friend on Friday night and returned by 1.30am to find Karan still awake and working on music in the living room. It was around 4am when he started receiving some messages. He looked hassled and said he had to step out and meet some friends. He went to Drop, a nightclub on  , and came back to my place by 7am.“
 
 Responding to what could have gone wrong within an hour after Karan returned, Shah said, “There was nothing very profound about the morning. He looked very calm, we were singing songs and drinking pomegranate juice when he got up and went to the window. He did not run or jump,“ he said refusing to comment further on the precise moments of watching Karan fling himself out of the window.“The matter is sub judice, so I cannot get into details. But I have recordings from that morning of us singing songs and also text messages that I received from Karan while he was out that I have submitted to the police. I'm sadder than everyone else who is accusing me.“
 
 A senior police officer said, “We have not found anything yet that suggests Karan Joseph was provoked by someone to take his own life. His parents have not held anyone in particular responsible for it either but we are still investigating.“
 
