PATNA: Altogether 2,35,017 applicants have registered for Bihar   (TET) exam to be conducted by   (BSEB) across the state on June 11. The last day to fill the application form for the entrance exam on www.bsebonline.net is April 30. Candidates can pay application fee either online or offline through an e-challan at State Bank of India branch by May 3. Any correction in the form filled by the candidates will be possible till May 4. “The Board has received around 37,615 applications for paper 1 (for classes I to V) and 1,81,236 applications for paper 2 (for classes VI to VIII),” BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said.

 School cabinet: Ayush Kumar and Akansha Verma took oath as the head boy and head girl, respectively, of   during investiture ceremony on Saturday. The badges and sashes were distributed by chief guest Kundan Krishnan, IG, Bihar police and guest of honour Ajay Singh, a social worker. 
 
 Kanishk Rai and Vaishnavi Bhartee took charge of the sports cabinet, Sahil and Preeti took oath as the heads of the eco club. The other cabinet members are Roushan, Alice Sinha, Satyam, Amisha, Utkarsh, Ananya, Adil Pervez, Prerna, Shashi and Sonal Kumari. The captains of various school houses are Jaldeep and Ayushi (Aravali house), Adarsh and Medha Soni (Vidhya house), Yashmit and Aradhya (Himgiri house) and Rohit and Ashwarya (Nilgiri house). The oath-taking ceremony was presided by school director C B Singh. This was followed by a dance performance on patriotic song by primary students. The school choir presented school song. Principal Radhika K, school staff and students were present on the occasion.
 
 Yoga camp: The week-long yoga camp organised by   concluded on Saturday with a call to practice yoga for having a sound mind in a healthy body. More than 50 students and teachers attended the camp. College principal Usha Singh exhorted the students to perform yogic exercises regularly in a bid to keep themselves fit. Philosophy teacher and sports in-charge Prem welcomed the guests. Others who addressed the participants included Prabha Mishra, Reena Sahay, Rita Sinha and Preeti Jha. History department head Poonam Chaudhary proposed the vote of thanks.
 
