INDORE:   of 23-year-old   went further down the spiral as police unable to clearly make out how the injuries to her   were caused.

 On Saturday evening, forensics department officials searched for clues in the house where the girl stayed with her boyfriend and three other friends on Wednesday night. They did not find anything substantial there.
 
 “It has come to the fore that all of them slept in the same room on Wednesday night after having dinner as the other two rooms were not kept well,” said one of the officials involved in the investigations.
 
 Police claimed the youths had stated during interrogations that Anamika came to the flat in the evening on Wednesday following which she and  , her boyfriend, spent time together.
 
 All of them had dinner late night and slept in the same room where the water cooler was installed.
 
 When she woke up around 8:00 am on Thursday morning, she went to the washroom and after some time complained of a stomach ache.
 
 Dheeraj asked one of his friends to get glucose and a bottle of water from a nearby grocery shop. When he returned, Anamika was asleep.
 
 All three youths went to their respective offices after that. Around 1:00 pm, Dheeraj called his friend and asked him to come back as Anamika’s condition had worsened.
 
 “They said they had booked a cab around 2:30 pm but Anamika asked them to call an ambulance. As they on their way to Choithram hospital with her, she succumbed. Doctors declared her brought dead around 3:00 pm on Thursday,” said Vijay Sisodiya, Rau police station in-charge.
 
 Short post mortem reports have revealed the death was due to shock or hemorrhage due to abdominal injuries.
 
 The deceased’s family members told police that they were aware of their daughter’s relationship with Dheeraj. In fact, he had stayed with her relatives for around a month when Anamika’s father underwent a bypass surgery around ten days ago.
 
 The couple was also regular at the flat in Rau and had spent time there at least eight to ten times in the past few months.
 
 Police claimed they were waiting for statements from the family members and were also in the process of interrogating the three youths and Dheeraj. “The death of the girl is mysterious and only interrogations will reveal facts,” said Sisodiya.
 
