CHANDIGARH: Thirty two years after the Dadupur-Nalvi irrigation scheme was initiated and approved, Haryana’s Manohar Lal Khattar government on Wednesday has shelved the project. The cabinet headed by the chief minister has also given the go-ahead to the proposal to denotify 1,009.29 acres of land acquired so far.

 Now, the land will go back to the farmers. However, the farmers, who have taken the compensation, shall have to deposit back the amount with 15% interest. The decision has put the Khattar government on the firing line of the Congress and   (INLD).
 
 This project was conceived to use the excess water to be received through the   (SYL) canal in the state. Dadupur-Nalvi canal scheme was initiated in 1985 and the project was approved by the state government for Rs 13 crore at that time for irrigation and recharging of groundwater in  ,   and Ambala districts.
 
 Later in 2004, then chief minister Om Prakash Chautala of INLD had laid the foundation of the canal in Shahbad. Congress’s Bhupinder Hooda-led government, too, had worked on this project.
 
 For implementing the scheme, first 190.67 acres of land was acquired during 1987-90. But acquiring more land, total 2,246.53 was needed, became difficult as land owners wanted higher compensation and moved courts multiple times.
 
 The government said that the project was taking a toll on the villagers and the cost of the project, especially the land compensation was going up. Therefore, the authorities decided to shelve the plan by denotifying the land acquisition.
 
 As per the project 2,246.53 acre land was to be acquired/used for construction for this scheme. Out of this, the irrigation department acquired a total of 1,019.2994 acres of land for the construction of the main channels — Shahbad feeder, Shahbad disty and Nalvi disty. The acquisition of this land cost Rs 75.98 crore. Additionally, Rs 116.35 crore was paid as enhancement as per the order of the court.
 
 Till date, a total of Rs 192.33 crore has been paid to the land owners for 1,019.2994 acres of land. The department has also incurred an expenditure of Rs 111.167 crore on the execution of these three channels.
 
 The other channels, which were to irrigate 92,532 hectare area of these districts, could not be taken up due to resistance of the land owners/farmers as they were not interested in giving up their land for the construction of the minor streams. According to them, water would be available to them only during the rainy season, the time when they do not require excess water. Hence, the state abandoned the execution of these channels.
 
 Former Haryana CM Hooda said that the decision would not only hurt the farmers who were waiting for water but will also burden those who had taken the compensation amount.
 
 “What can you expect from them now? Poor land owners would have consumed the compensation amount. How would they return the amount back with interest?,” said Hooda.
 
 INLD state president Ashok Arora called the decision as “unfortunate”. “This day will be observed as a black day in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar. 150 villages will be directly hit by this decision. They have not only killed the project, but also have killed the prosperity of these districts,’’ said Arora.
 
