BHOPAL: A woman sarpanch in Chattarpur district has declared   in a panchayat of Harpalpur tehsil, about 400km northeast of Bhopal. It’s unheard of in these parts, and is the latest in a series of attempts to root out addiction in the state after chief minister   announced phased closure of liquor shops across the state.

 Harpalpur, a small dusty town, is the last signpost of Bundelkhand in   bordering Mahoba district of UP. Sarsed Panchayat, 4km from Harpalpur, has four liquor shops for a population of about 6,000. Ramkumari Arjaria, the Sarsed sarpanch, told TOI that the gram sabha took the decision on sharab bandi three days ago. Anyone found taking alcohol within the panchayat limits will be fined Rs 1,000, she warned.
 
 The sarpanch said, “Liquor is now an illegal substance in Sarsed, Marodi, Chapran villages that come under the panchayat. No intoxicant is allowed in these three villages. Women have been raising their voice against liquor. The villages united for the cause and we have banned it.” One of the liquor shops is already shut. 
 
 Arjaria said she has sought police help to help curb the “menace of liquor”. SHO of Harpalpur police station, R K Mishra, said, “The sarpanch has requested me to help implement the panchayat’s order. I have ensured that no liquor is sold in the village.”
 
 Villagers have come out in support of the ban. “Countrymade liquor is available in plenty here. People sit near the railway tracks in the village and drink. Besides, a lot of ganja is available in the region,” Ramasahankar Tiwari, an elderly villager of Sarsed said. Before railways started its operation in Khajuraho, Harpalpur was the only railway station in the region. 
 
 Agitations against liquor shops have intensified across the state after the CM announced the government’s intention to move towards phased prohibition. Chouhan relentlessly spoke against the “ill -effects” of liquor during the recently concluded Narmada Seva Yatra.
 
 It has had its effect. After almost two months of renewal of contracts, more than 25 liquor shops in the state are yet to open. Gurjars in Morena district have not allowed five liquor shops in villages dominated by them. Last month, a spiritual leader of the community administered an oath to the men to give up drinking.
 
 Following statewide agitations, as many as 50 liquor contractors have approached district collectors to surrender their license and demand the return of earnest money.
 
