LUCKNOW: Did the resolution adopted by the emergency national   called by now-sacked   general secretary hold a legal sanctity? Just before the convention, where chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was anointed as the SP national president, was about to start the party chief   called it ‘unconstitutional’. 

 Later, a press release signed by Mulayam said that since the convention was called without the permission of the national president, all the resolutions passed in it are invalid. He also called a parliamentary board meeting which condemn ‘the act of calling this unconstitutional convention’.
 
 The Akhilesh Yadav camp however described the convention valid claiming that it was presided over by the party's national vice president Kiranmoy Nanda and the proceedings were initiated by the national general secretary   which was as per section 17 provisions and 19 of the party's constitution, a copy of which if available with the Election Commission of India.
 
 Under section 17 of the SP's constitution in the absence of the party president, vice president will preside over the national executive/national convention and from time to time, will also perform the functions of the president by the virtue of powers vested in him.
 
 Section 19 of the party's constitution says on the basis of the responsibilities vested in him by the party president, the party general secretary can well prepare for organising the convention or special convention.
 
 In response to Mulayam's objections raised over the short notice at which the convention was called, Akhilesh camp said section 14 (2) of the Constitution provides for calling of the special convention at any time if desired by the national executive or 40% of the representatives demand so. 
 
 Drafted by Ram Gopal Yadav himself, the party's constitution was amended and ratified for the last time at the party's seventh national convention held at Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh in March 2008. Interstingly, the SP constitution is silent on how a new president will be elected.
 
 
