CHENNAI: It could have been   by the ruling   to further corner the beleaguered T T V Dhinakaran camp. But, it looks like Tamil Nadu forest minister   about `lying' on former chief minister,  's health condition may well boomerang on the ruling setup.

 The opposition parties in the state, including DMK, PMK and CPM, have upped the ante with their demand for a thorough probe into the circumstances leading to Jayalalithaa's death. They now want the investigations to be enlarged to include cabinet ministers, who were in the know of things, but sought to look the other way.
 
 DMK working president, M K Stalin has demanded that the Centre intervene immediately and order a CBI enquiry, based on the latest revelations by minister Sreenivasan. In a party release, Stalin said, “During Jayalalithaa's hospitalization, the entire government machinery was camping at the hospital. This included then chief minister O Pan neerselvam and current chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The Centre has a moral responsibility and should immediately order a CBI probe to expose the entire truth.“
 
 Demanding a thorough probe into Jayalalithaa's death, PMK leader S Ramadoss wanted the investigation to include the role played by the state ministers. “One cannot say it was only Sreenivasan who made false statements. Even others, including Panneerselvam, had made similar statements then.Hence, any enquiry into the death of the former chief minister should include all the ministers, so as to bring out the truth,“ Ramadoss said in his statement.
 
 For his part, CPM state general secretary G Ramakrishnan sought a judicial probe, headed by a sitting judge, into Jayalalithaa's death, since central ministers and the state governor too had visited the hospital during that time.
 
 Incidentally, Jayalalithaa's niece, J Deepa too joined the chorus on Sunday in demanding to bring out the complete truth on the death of her aunt.
 
 “The ministers are making belated statements that they had only said what Sasikala had told them. Instead of revealing the truth in bits and pieces, why not reveal the entire truth at once,“ Deepa told reporters on Sunday , adding that she had already requested Prime Minister   to order a probe into her aunt's death.
 
 State minister K Pandiarajan on Sunday told reporters that he stood by his earlier demand.
 
