GURUGRAM: Even though the city got some relief from   as the minimum   increased to 5 degrees Celsius in on Saturday, there was no respite from rising air pollution levels.   (PM) 2.5 rose by nearly 50% compared to the last two days.

 While the   index crossed the 360 mark on Saturday, which is in the ‘hazardous’ zone, the level of   remained seven times higher than the national safe stabdard of 60 µg/m³. The highest level of PM2.5 was recorded at 445.06 µg/m³ on Saturday, while the highest on Friday and Thursday remained at 292.90 and 364.90 µg/m³, respectively.
 
 Officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said mornings and evenings, in particular, had been very foggy and thus recorded an increase in pollution levels. “It has been noticed that pollution levels remained high in mornings and evenings. This shows that particulate matter is getting stuck in the lower atmosphere due to the increased fog at that time of day. Dip in temperature has also led to a decrease in the wind speed. The increase in pollution is, therefore, recorded due to extreme weather conditions,” said an official of HSPCB.
 
 Besides weather conditions, experts also blamed laxity on part of authorities for the worsening air pollution levels. “While last year, the authorities were talking about air pollution due to more smog in the lower atmosphere, this year, days are brighter and thus the authorities are not bothered. The fact is that pollution is as high as it was last year. The authorities need to take immediate steps to bring down air pollution,” said Niranjan Raje, a former member of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority.
 
 “Emergency measures such as restricting movement of diesel vehicles, temporary closure of polluting industries and closure of schools and colleges need to be taken to combat high air pollution levels,” he added.
 
 The   department has predicted   on Sunday, but said that minimum temperature is likely to go up.
 
 Doctors, on the other hand, advised people to stay indoors as far as possible. “Children, elderly and pregnant women should remain indoors. Even healthy people should avoid doing physical activity outdoors,” said Dr Sachin Verma, a city-based pulmonologist.
 
 
