Anindita.Acharya@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: With less than two weeks left for Durga Puja, the biggest festival of the Bengalis, one can only imagine how busy the potters and artisans of Kumartuli, the hub of Durga idol making in Kolkata, are at present. Thousands of idols travel to different parts of the world from this north Kolkata workshop.
 
 Back home in Chandigarh, there might not be as many idol makers, but one step inside Kalibari in Industrial Area Phase II and you will surely be transported to Kumartuli. The smell of wet clay fills the air and you know Durga Puja is just round the corner.
 
 Around 11 artisans led by Kokhon Adhikari are working round the clock at this makeshift workstation, giving their finishing touches to the clay models of the goddess, which will also be travelling to far-off places.
 
 While one artisan is busy applying clay over a bamboo structure mixed with straw needed to support the idol, another idol maker gives shape to Durga’s fingers. At one corner, clay heads of Durga are kept in a row to dry.
 
 A team of artisans arrives from Kolkata to Chandigarh around June every year and for the next four months, this place crammed with clay idols, bamboo frameworks and mud, becomes their home where they give shape to nearly 70 Durga idols.
 
 From Kalibari, Durga idol travels to various places of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and even Ladakh. “Besides for Tricity events, we make idols which go to Kullu, Kalka, Kangra, Adampur, Jammu, Patiala, and Ambala,” said Kokhon.
 
 Durga idol made in Kalibari also goes to an army camp in Ladakh. Kokhon, who has been associated with the business for 22 years now in Chandigarh, said, “Our Durga idols have been going to Ladakh for 10 years now. This year, the golden-coloured idol is 3.5-ft tall.”
 
 Though most of the soil required to make these idols are procured from various places of Punjab, Kokhon informed that he brings the Ganga mati (soil) needed to give the finishing touches to the goddess from Kolkata.
 
 Kolkata-based artisan Nepal Naskar has been making Durga idols in Kalibari for the past 27 years now. Artisan Suraj Pramanik, a resident of Mathurapur in West Bengal, said, “I have been making idols at Kalibari for the past 20 years. We make Durga idols ranging from 6 inches to 25 feet.”
 
 President of Kalibari Chandigarh, Nilkantha Das said, “90% of Durga idols in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal go from Kalibari. It’s been going to Ladakh for years now.”
 
 Pradeep Das, who is in charge of a workstation in Vaishno Mata Mandir, Chandigarh, has a team of 5 Kolkata-based artisans. Apart from sending idols to various pandal across Tricity, their idols also travel to Kashmir, Badrinath and Patiala.
 
 “Our Durga pratima has been going to an army camp in Patiala for the last 20 years. This year, too, we are making a 12-ft idol for the camp,” said Das.
 
 Adjacent to Kalibari is Model Satyanarayan Society, another workstation, which specializes in clay idol making. Gobardhan Adhikari had been making Durga idols in Chandigarh since 1978. Now paralyzed, his son Shubasis is looking after the business.
 
 Nearly 12 artisans hailing from West Bengal relentlessly work under him to complete orders from Bathinda, Kullu, Manali, Sirsa and other places. “From Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000, we make idols of various types and ranges,” he said.
 
 While it takes nearly a week to make an idol of goddess Durga, it takes 15 days to complete an idol of goddess Kali.
 
 All these artisans, who come down from Kolkata to Chandigarh every year, also make idols of Ganesh, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Vishwakarma, and Sherawali.
 
 BOX: Goddess in the making
 
 Places where Durga idols travel from Chandigarh are Ladakh, Bathinda, Kullu, Kalka, Manali, Sirsa, Adampur, Jammu, Ambala, Kashmir, Patiala
 
 
