 Bareilly: The door-to-door garbage collection started by Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the city two years ago has failed to work as sanitation workers rarely turn up, residents here alleged.   The residents’ complaint comes at a time when the city has been rated at 298th position in the Swachch Survekshan 2017, results of which were announced earlier this week. A total of 434 cities were surveyed across the country and people were asked to rate their cities.    The garbage collection service was launched with fanfare two years ago and now, covers 46 wards of the city. However, the scheme remains more on paper than on ground zero, alleged residents of several localities. They claimed that sanitation staff often do not turn up at their houses to collect garbage. In their absence, piles of garbage can be seen in various localities, including Gandhi Nagar, Janakpuri, Quila, Kaalibadi, Indira Market, Biharipur and Delapir.    Denying the allegations leveled by residents, BMC environment engineer, Uttam Verma, claimed, “The door-to-door waste collection service is successful across 46 wards of the city. The workers also lift trash which gets collected by roadsides. Work is underway to introduce the service in the remaining wards as well.”    City is divided into eight zones each comprising 80 wards (10 wards in each zone). Of the 80 wards, 46 wards are covered under the door-to-door garbage collection facility. In October last year, the service was introduced in four new wards under zone 4 — Awas Vikas, Baankhana, Indira Nagar and Gandhi Nagar. Of the four localities, Indira Nagar and Gandhi Nagar are the worst-affected.    A resident of Quila, Reshma Ansari said, “The sanitation workers initially used to come at around 7 am and it was quite convenient as I could easily handover the trash to them. Soon, they started coming late, well past 8:30am. I have no choice but to put the garbage bag outside the door. If not picked up quickly, stray dogs rip open the bag and scatter the waste on the road.”    In a similar vein, Ayushi Jaiswal from Biharipur said,“The door-to-door garbage collectors often do not turn and when they do, they do not have a particular time of coming to our locality. The worker comes any time between 6:30 am and 12 pm. Due to this, I am often forced to stop other important household work in order to hand over the trash.”    Several residents claimed that when they come, the sanitation workers are always in a hurry and hardly wait for them to open the door and hand over the garbage. The sanitation workers come with a whistle to alert residents and then leave quickly, they said.