The narratives are unusual, the plots unpredictable, the language unfamiliar but the popularity is for real. With the influx of   options, Indian homes are beginning to see a foreign invasion — from Spain and Turkey to Iceland and Israel — one TV show at a time.

 In Chennai, MBA graduate Arun Kumar switched from American serials to Nordic noir because he felt they were more-edge-of-the seat. "After a while, the other serials get predictable, but in a Norwegian or Icelandic detective series you cannot work out the plot. Maybe it's the culture or the technical values of the production, it's just more intense and gripping to watch," he says. One of the latest Icelandic crime dramas to hit screens is Case, which The Guardian describes as a chilly crime drama that uncovers something rotten in Reykjavík. "It's like a blast of cold, clean air even though it's in another language and you're effectively reading it rather than hearing it," says the review.
 
 For viewers, reasons for watching a foreign serial may vary. Some watch to refresh their knowledge of a foreign language they learnt in school, and that's probably what explains the popularity of shows like The Break in which detective Yoann Peeters makes even grim words like 'seekopat' (psychopath) sound cute in his French accent. For others, these shows are a means to understand another culture, while most just find them more entertaining than the diet of British and American imports that Indian TV channels have been feeding them. After all, how many Friends reruns can one watch?
 
 For media streaming companies such as Netflix, the market potential is immense. "Everyone loves a great story, whether it is in English, Hindi or Spanish. We see this with Narcos (about Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar), which is 75% in Spanish, but is amongst the most popular TV series in nearly all of our markets, including India," says an official communication from Netflix. "In India, many viewers also enjoyed the recently released Brazilian TV thriller, 3%, which was in Portuguese." In 2017,   plans to launch global TV series and films such as Japanese web-anime Blame! and live action manga Samurai Gourmet, as well as Las Chicas Del Cable, a Spanish soap set in the 1920s.
 
 The overwhelming global popularity of Nordic whodunits has culture scholars at Denmark's Aarhus University spending 6.5 million kroner trying to figure out exactly how theydunit.
 
 Anne Meritt Waade, associate professor, department of media studies and journalism, Aarhus University in Denmark, tells TOI that Forbrydelsen (more popularly known as The Killing) was the global game-changer in  , successfully exporting Danish drama to approximately 100 countries, including India. "You also had crime novels like Stieg Larsson's Millennium Trilogy that were international hits and which created hype about Nordic literature and culture," she adds.
 
 Waade reasons that it is the combination of slick production values, fantastic storylines, curiosity about Scandinavian culture, and more avenues for viewership such as the internet which are behind this global appetite for Nordic noir. "The unique double plots of Nordic crime dramas are also appealing at the global level. Every crime drama has two plots — the actual crime and an underlying strong public message from the broadcaster. So while the detectives set about to solve a crime, the broadcaster tries to spread a message about violence, abuse and so on. People seem to like the social aspect of it," Waade says.
 
 She adds that the marketability is so high now that the Danish broadcast corporations are pumping more money than before into production. "Even the demographic is more dynamic. I believe younger viewers are being drawn in as well," she says.
 
 Indian TV channels, too, are throwing global soaps into the mix. While Tamil TV channel Puthiyugam telecasts Korean serials, Zee TV's Zindagi channel shows Turkish soaps and plans to include dramas from Spain, South Korea and Brazil, says Sunil Buch, ZEEL chief business officer. "Sharp editing, international production values, and storylines that have a resonance with Indian audiences have made these serials popular,'' says Buch.
 
 For Bengaluru homemaker Dipanwita Chakrbarti, it is the simplicity of the Turkish soap that draws her in. "It's impossible to keep track of the multiple characters in an Indian TV serial. But with Turkish telenovas like Fatmagul, which traces the journey of a young girl who is gang-raped and forced to marry one of her rapists, you don't have to rack your brains on who's going to age or turn into a snake," laughs Dipanwita.
 
 Like the Nordic crime dramas, Turkish soaps too have had resounding success across the world, including the Balkans, Russia, Latin America, Central Asia, and Pakistan. According to a report in Middle East Eye quoting the Turkish Exporters Assembly, the country is the second-highest exporter of TV series after the US, selling to over 75 different countries, with a business volume estimated to exceed $350 million as of this year. Time to settle down before the telly — or laptop — with a platter of mezze.
 
 
 
 
