Panaji: Blockage of a traditional waterway linked to the St Inez creek by builders in Taleigao, and sewage discharge from a nearby building have come to haunt   in the area, as they are worried that their fields may become uncultivable.

 The 2.5m-broad tributary, barely two metres deep, that runs east to west before joining the 3.6-km creek at its tail end, has been encroached upon by construction projects at two separate points.
 
 “There is an illegal construction of a road in the field in or near survey no. 118/7 for the benefit of occupants of an illegally constructed building,” convenor of Save Taleigao Front, Xavier Almeida stated in his complaint to the Taleigao panchayat.
 
 The builder has dug a small trench to divert the flow, but villagers say it is too narrow and superficial to cope with the flow in the waterway.
 
 “The panchayat has to intervene and get the problem resolved at the earliest. Otherwise the flooding problem will increase in the area. They have the power to do it,” Almeida said.
 
 Water resources department (WRD) had issued a show cause notice to one of the builders regarding the encroachment, but the illegal embankment still stands.
 
 Nandkumar Kamat, a member of Jawaharlal Nehru national urban renewal mission (JNNURM) suggested an integrated watershed-based approach covering the source, feeder streams and entire hydrography of St Inez creek to tackle problems in the area.
 
 Calling for a composite drainage plan from the source of the St Inez creek at Nagalli to its mouth, he had said the whole are around it is prone to flooding. 
 
 “In case of storm surges, cloudbursts and sea level rise only a properly flowing St Inez creek would be able to save the city and Taleigao,” Kamat had said.
 
 The increasing sewage flow in the fields is also troubling farmers and causing a health hazard. “My cultivation is getting adversely affected and the hay stacked for cattle in the field has been spoilt,” Sharad Kerkar, a farmer has complained to the Taleigao panchayat.
 
 
