GURUGRAM:   Yadav is on a mission. India’s leading   rally   is keen to see increased female participation in  . And the adrenaline-packed ‘Woman on Wheels – Drive with Bani’ event on Sunday was a step in that direction. 

 Only seven women turned up but that was hardly going to stop them from having a bit of fun, at the Off Road Adventure Zone on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. Action got under way at 7:30 am, and continued till near noon.
 
 “It was really nice, it went down very well,” Bani told TOI. “I found the women very enthusiastic today. 
 
 “They’re just looking for a chance to come forward and join the sport, to enjoy the sport. They don’t really know where to go and whom to approach. So today was an opportunity for them.”
 
 Besides, there was a group of six young men, engineering students all, who came up from Chennai especially for the event. “They came by train, arrived 7:30 in the morning and reached here by 10 am,” shared Bani. For their endeavour, they were rewarded with a run of the place.
 
 But it was a day for the ladies, and Bani was certainly chuffed with the interest each of them showed. “They were so enthused about it, I could see the motivation levels. 
 
 “And they’re already looking forward to taking part in events that will be happening in the NCR.”
 
  resident Pragati Joshi was one of the budding   drivers. She’s already taken part in a couple of events, including the 2017 Delhi-Jaipur women’s car rally. Being at the wheel excites Pragati. She loves to drive but admits it’s not much fun being a co-driver. “I’m not very comfortable at all – even if I’m with my family, I’m the one who’s driving!”
 
 Sunday’s event, full of the thrills of off-roading, went down a treat. 
 
 “It was awesome, it was beyond my imagination. I thought probably we’ll just go for a drive somewhere. I never expected it would be an adventurous one!” shared Pragati.
 
 And in the buzz-filled final leg, each participant drove her own car in a test of speed. Pragati, navigating her Hyundai Creta, finished third.
 
 For Bani, this is just a start. She’s confident interest will grow. “I am looking to form a club for the women, so that I can have more of them join in.” Indeed, there’s no better role model for women seeking to take up motorsport.
 
