JAIPUR: On January 4, a public hearing was held near the collectorate in   district to address the problems of those afflicted with the incurable lung disease that affects stone mine workers, silicosis. Over 400 people attended the event. Many said they had struggled just to be confirmed positive with silicosis by the Pneumoconiosis Board. After receiving the certificate, many had not received the Rs 1 lakh compensation that the government offers to patients. Families of patients who die get Rs 3 lakh in compensation but many kin said they had not received the amount. Collector Mahaveer Prasad   assured the gathering that dues would be cleared by the end of the month. On Wednesday, collector Sharma told TOI that 980 of the 1,087 silicosis patients or their kin have been compensated.

 “We made sure that patients did not have to go looking for the tehsildar or the mine owners. Once the documents necessary were received, we got tehsildars to visit homes of patients and collect bank account numbers and Aadhaar numbers. We were aided in this effort by activists and interns attached to the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan, who spread out into the villages and managed to gather information about those awaiting compensation. We have some suspicious cases, where it seems the x-ray of one patient was used several times to get certificates. We are looking into those cases.”
 
 Some bureaucratic hurdles too needed to be cleared. In a January 12 letter to the chairperson and members of the Rajasthan Environment, Health and Administrative Board (REHAB), which has been looking into issues that concern mine workers, activist Nikhil Dey pointed out that the ‘category B’ certificate, which shows that the death was indeed caused by silicosis, posed immense harassment – those residing in villages have to see about arranging for a post-mortem examination. Dey said officials had agreed to do away with the requirement for this certificate to offer compensation. However, officials in the health and labour department did not confirm that this was indeed the case.
 
 Moolchand, who has been working with Grammen Samajik Vikas Sanstha, said activists found 1,087 families where there were either patients of silicosis or deaths because of the disease. The district administration was appraised of these cases and the collector led the effort to offer these families compensation.
 
 Bhilwara’s achievement comes at a time when other districts are lagging far behind. Dr Satyanarayan Singh, retired IAS officer who has been coming to the aid of silicosis patients in Karauli, in a letter to director   of the state department of public health on January 17, explained that patients of silicosis from Karauli were being asked to return to their homes in Bundi or Bhilwara getting tested for silicosis. “About 50 people suspected to be suffering from the disease have been denied diagnosis,” he wrote.
 
 Arun Jindal, who works with   and has been aiding patients in Karauli, said, “There is no proper survey, so we only have rough estimates of the number of people affected. My own estimate is about 4,000. The district hospital is poorly equipped and only about 10 patients can be x-rayed in a day. Others are told to return later. Some doctors even insist on a CT scan for a diagnosis – that costs about Rs 750. Many silicosis patients are being treated with TB drugs. That does more harm than good.”
 
 BOX: Rs 50K Jan Dhan deposit limit poses hurdle
 
 At Bhilwara, the compensation process faced some hiccups – when cash was sought to be directly transferred into bank accounts, the sum of Rs 1 lakh could not be deposited into Jan Dhan accounts, which have an upper deposit limit of Rs 50,000. The administration then had to offer cheques for the amount. “This caused some delay,” said   of MKSS.
 
 
