GURGAON: The rebellion launched against chief minister   by   along with a dozen other legislators — mostly from south of Haryana — seems to have paid off. 

 Sources said that the   was considering appointing a deputy chief minister in Haryana.
 
 For a couple of months, Aggarwal has been making a string of veiled remarks against Khattar. He had earlier said while the chief minister was “honest person, he was being misinformed and misguided by senior bureaucrats”. According to sources, the names doing the rounds for the deputy chief minister’s post include state BHP president Subhash Barala and finance minister Capt Abhimanyu. However, there will be only one deputy CM in the state unlike Uttar Pradesh. According to sources, the decision to appoint a deputy CM might be taken in the meeting on Monday. 
 
 “A decision is likely to be taken on Monday when the party leadership meets. In all probability, state   president Subhash Barala could be made the deputy chief minister. Finance minister Capt Abhimanyu could also be a probably candidate. A deputy CM should be appointed to share the load and appease the Jat community that has been creating problem for the BJP,” a party source told TOI.
 
 Though TOI asked Aggarwal if a decision to appoint a minister or party leader to the post of deputy chief minister would be taken, he didn’t reveal much. The legislator, however, claimed that the talk to change the present setup started only after the dissent, and disappointment expressed by him. “I will comment only after the government appoints a deputy CM,” he said.
 
 The MLA launched veiled attacks on the CM over Gwalpahari land row, change in the transit-oriented development policy and change in Metro route. In fact, Aggarwal joined the opposition MLAs and demanded that Khattar speak on Gwalpahari and punish those who were responsible for altering land records. The opposition members had alleged the CM was acting on behalf of private entities. During a news conference in March, opposition leader Abhay Chautala of the INLD had said the days of Khattar as the CM are numbered and that he might not be able to sustain for long. 
 
