CHENNAI: Your visits to the nearby clinic are going to become few and far between. Conventionally restricted to bedside caregiving, home healthcare providers like Portea, Medwell Ventures and India Home Healthcare are expanding their scope of services to tend to the complexities of urban life. From conducting tests as a precautionary measure to specialised services like dentistry, optometry, audiometry and counselling, these players are bringing the conveniences of healthcare to home.

 City-based India Home Healthcare recently forayed into preventive care where doctors visit patients every month. A team of nutritionists and physicians work on a subscription model. “Preventive healthcare is not confined to the geriatric segment. There are 40-year olds who have opted to get their health check-up done,” said Thyagarajan V, director, India Home Healthcare.
 
 Master health check-up is a part of some insurance policies, but not everyone takes the effort of going to the hospital to get it done. So we have qualified MBBS professionals who visit the patients’ homes even for vitals measurements,” he said.
 
 Bengaluru-based Portea is taking the family approach. “For instance, a family may have elders who require elder care packages / support, a young couple who may want to undertake preventive health checks, those suffering from chronic diseases may need diseases management packages and a young mother may need baby and child care. These health interventions may be administered at home or at their workplace for which we have tied up with corporates,” said Meena Ganesh, MD and CEO, Portea Medical.
 
 In India, over 50 million people have hearing impairment that requires intervention and this is an area that Portea is addressing. With a team of 10 audiologists and staff, the startup serves over 500 customers a month in Bengaluru and Mumbai currently. The startup is planning a foray into Delhi and Kolkata as well.
 
 For Vishal Bali led Medwell Ventures, specialty-led healthcare was the focus right from the beginning. The healthcare provider has launched home dentistry recently with 25 full-time dentists on board, providing 150-200 services a month, primarily for existing subscribers. “We got the idea from our neurological patients for whom denture management is a big issue. Grips change or the denture falls and they need replacements as soon as possible. Currently, we are offering basic services like tooth extraction and simple root canals, where not much anesthesia is involved,” said Bali.
 
 A common occurrence among the elderly is depression and experts in the industry say it is not uncommon for 40 and 50 year olds to have issues like memory loss which has led to home healthcare players offer services in this area. While Portea recently launched counselling services, Medwell Ventures offers services for patients with neurological issues. Apollo Homecare’s counselling service sees demand from Chennai, Hyderabad & New Delhi.
 
 Chemotherapy, stroke management and tracheostomy (procedure done to ease breathing) at home are among the bouquet of services offered by Apollo Homecare. “It is a physician-led homecare approach that we have been concentrating on from the start. Any patient we take in is assessed by the physician and based on his/her assessment the specialists, dieticians, counsellors etc. who are required to attend to the patient are zeroed in on,” said Mahesh Joshi, CEO, Apollo Homecare.
 
  And it’s not just basic services that are being offered at home. Mumbai-based Zoctr specialises in setting up ICUs at homes. “One has to shell out almost a lakh a day to use an ICU in an established hospital. We can set up ICUs at home for less than Rs 2.5 – 3 lakh a month within 3 hours,” said Nidhi Saxena, CEO, Zoctr.
 
 
 
