BENGALURU: It was a sweltering March morning. Negotiating heavy traffic, Bengalureans were on their way to work. Amid the din of vehicles on Cubbon Road, a mother was putting her bawling infant to sleep in a makeshift swing. She was at work too, only that she didn’t have access to luxuries like a creche.

 The pourakarmika had covered her face. It wasn’t because of shame as much as the unbearable stench — she was standing in a garbage truck by whose frame her baby’s swing was hanging. Unprotected herself, with no gloves, masks or boots on, the woman was forced to put her child to risk. 
 
 “From respiratory disorders to skin infections and gastroenteritis, the baby is exposed to multiple risks. It could also have an impact on his/her mental health,” said Dr  , a paediatrician.
 
 Thousands of women like this unnamed warrior take up brooms to fight the city’s filth — they lead anonymous lives, are unable to fend for their babies, and struggle with long-term illness and social stigma.
 
 “Even some Good   who want to give us some money cringe at the thought of touching us, fearing they may catch some infection,” said a woman pourakarmika. Fighting for their rights, they’ve been completely ignored by Bengaluru’s civil society, with stray activists engaging with the   and the government in vain.
 
 On Women’s Day, hundreds of   hit the streets to demand facilities which should have been rightfully theirs. From wanting to be regularized by the BBMP — official records show the city has about 28,000 pourakarmikas and 3,000 regular workers — to seeking a stable salary, all their demands fell on deaf ears.
 
 Afraid of the authorities and tired of being harassed by contractors, these women, who work without weekly offs, live in constant fear. The mother’s behaviour reflected nothing different. As she realized she was being noticed, she hid herself behind the door of the truck and slowly moved the swing towards her.
 
 The baby had stopped crying temporarily, or may be the wails were masked by the ambient noise. The woman got on with another day’s work so that Bengalureans could breathe a bit more easily.
 
