In recent years, what has clicked big time with Hindi soap addicts are the presence of child actors in these shows. From portraying historical characters to playing intense roles, these kids are TRPchurning stars, making it imperative for showmakers channels to replace them with older actors.
 
    saw the rise of Avika Gor and Avinash Mukherjee, Faisal Khan shone in Maharana Pratap, Ruhanika Dhawan made a mark as Ruhi in   (and is reprising a double role on audiences' demand in YHM) or Siddharth Nigam in  . In fact, some shows saw a sharp decline in TRPs once the tracks of the child actors ended.
  
  However, soapmakers seem to be treading new ground of late. In recent times several soaps took a `leap', marking the exit routes for their leading child stars and even retained their popularity in the TRP charts. In Naamkarann newbie Aditi Rathore is the grown up Avni (earlier essayed by the talented child star Ashreen Namdaar), Udaan has Meera Deosthale replacing the gamine Spandan Chaturvedi as grown up Chakor, Farnaz Shetty is the grown-up Manu (replacing Sania Touqeer) or Helly Shah in and as Devanshi (replacing Kashvi Kothari), Aditi Bhatia plays grown up Ruhi (earlier essayed by Ruhanika Dhawan) in Yeh Hai Mohabbatein and Raj Anadkat replaces Bhavya Gandhi as the collegian Tappu in  .
  
  
 
  
  For show makers how tough is it to replace the child stars who have a dedicated fanbase for a new track with newer faces post a leap? Guroudev Bhalla, creative producerdirector of Naamkarann and Udaan ,says, “It's a lot of risk when you are taking a generation leap. But, we cannot continue to carry a show without a strong storyline. In case of Udaan and Naamkarann ­ we were done with telling the story from a child's point.Both shows demanded a grown up character to pitch in and take the story to a next level and newer perspectives.It is essential to cater the best of storyline to viewers.“
  
  Devyani Rale, creative producer of Waaris says, “There's a lot of pressure on us, as the kids are immensely popular. Sania was exceptional as Manu. But, it was the story's creative demand to take a leap and there was no point in postponning the inevitable. The pressure's is to make an interesting storyline, so that the audience doesn't miss the child actor.“ For stars who . step into these popular child actors' shoes, it's a creative challenge too.t Farnaz who plays the . grown-up Manu in Waaris, , t “In a way it is good because the character is already established. The audience , accepts you eventually.“
  
  Meera, the grown up Chakor in Udaan says, “Spandan did a great job as the child Chakor. I am try ing my best to carry for ward what she has done.“
  
  Once the shows garner enough eyeballs, showmakers and GECs will stop `kid ding' and continue to take creatively planned `leaps'.
