BENGALURU: An   awaited police who were at their wit’s end trying to tackle two   recently. In both instances, the ‘abducted’ had stage-managed the whole plot: while one wanted to elope with her lover, the other wanted to idle away his time instead of joining the job his family had arranged for him.

 In the first incident, Amruth Mahendra, a 20-year-old undergraduate commerce student, approached Ashoknagar police on March 31, saying his elder sister had been kidnapped by two men in a car. Amruth, a student with a private college and resident of Shantinagar, said he and his sister came out of a bakery on Lakshmi Road after having cool drinks when the incident occurred. 
 
 Three special teams were formed. “We immediately swung into action and scanned CCTV footages from Lakshmi Road. We were shocked to see the woman boarding an Indica car, bearing registration KA01-ME-7279, without any resistance, with the complainant, Amruth, standing next to her. However, on the same night, we traced the vehicle to Kengeri and rescued the woman. This was within 10 hours of the incident being reported,” said police.
 
 During probe, police discovered that the brother-sister duo had hatched the kidnap plan. “Amruth’s sister had an affair with a man, Shambhu alias Sticker Shambhu, who she met on Facebook in 2014. A sticker maker by profession, Shambu wanted to marry her but Amruth’s mother was opposed to it,” said police. The woman wanted to elope and marry, and took her brother’s help to hatched the drama, police said.
 
 In the second incident reported from Peenya, North Bengaluru, last week, B L Gowda, a private company employee filed a complaint on the night of April 7, saying miscreants had kidnapped his relative, Maruti Prasad alias Maruti, 20, a resident of Peenya and a native of Sandur near Ballary.
 
 “Maruti sent me a voice SMS saying some unidentified men had kidnapped him soon after he came out of an ATM kiosk in Peenya,” Gowda told police. A special team was formed; the victim’s mobile tower location showed he was in Mandya on Saturday morning. “Our team reached Mandya and found that Maruti had stayed at a lodge. Statements from lodge staff revealed he was all alone and we sensed some foul play,” said police. By then, Maruti had switched off his cellphone and the police team had to return empty handed.
 
 However, Maruti switched on his phone on Sunday morning and police tracked him near Majestic. “In his confession statement, Maruti told us that his parents at Sandur were forcing him to join some job in Bengaluru. I don’t like living in Bengaluru. So I planned this kidnap drama,” he told police.
 
 Police have filed a B report in both cases and have warned the “abducted” that they’d face the music if they indulged in any kind of foul play in future.
 
 
