DUNERA: Gurdaspur Lok Sabha by-elections coincide with the return of the Gujjars (a pastoral community that lives a nomadic life ) from the upper reaches of Chamba. Many Gujjars have Punjab’s voter identity cards, a few first timers also, an opportunity to exercise their right to vote.  , 63, told TOI on Saturday that it was a rare coincidence that an election coincided with their migration from hills 

 “Now, many of us who have   voter cards will cast their votes, a few of our youth who are on the way to Pathankot will cast their vote for the first time,” he said.
 
 Notably, as the winter sets in the upper reaches of Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh, a strong community of Gujjars begin their journey to lower  . Many of them have their houses and farms in the villages on the foothills of Pathankot district.
 
 Another Gujjar, Bashir who owns house and agriculture land in   village said, “Elections have never changed our lifestyle or given us any major facilities, but there is just a bustle this time,” he said.
 
 He informed that over 150 Gujjar families have arrived from   and other villages in Teesa tehsil of Chamba district and almost everyone owns a house in Pathankot district.
 
 However another elderly Gujjar Hazi Noor Elahi rued that in Punjab they were seen with suspicion. “Whenever there is some terrorist incident in Punjab border with J and K and Himachal Pradesh, police rush to check our deras which has disheartened us,” he said.
 
 He said they were bound with their lifestyle , tradition and their properties in Himachal Pradesh that they couldn’t settle at one place. “Every family comes to Pathankot with a herd of 10 to 40 milch cattle in the month of September and return by May," said he adding that during every migration they walk for nearly twenty kilometer for ten days .
 
 “Even during last assembly constituency, many Gujjars who have Punjab domicile and voter card had specially arrived from Chamba to vote “ he said.
 
 Asked which political party they support, Hazi with a cynical smile on his face said “Tu kisi rajnitik party da jasoos hai, eh ni dasdae asi” (Are you a mole of some political party, no we don’t tell this). 
 
