Nagpur: Dalgreen Agro Pvt Ltd, a Kolkata based agri-business company, is setting up an integrated horticultural project near Katol. The project, to be developed in four phases over eight years, would begin with plantation of orange and pomegranate trees on 100 acres. This would be followed by setting up of storage, sorting, grading, packaging unit and fruits would be marketed as a new brand. Processing unit for value addition along with development of a processing cluster in the area would be next.

 The project will not be limited to just 100 acres. “It will be much bigger and the project influence area would be many more times. It is aimed at economic rejuvenation of the entire belt. We would be using cutting edge technology right from plantation to processing. It will generate plenty of employment in the area and create partnership with local people,” said Vivek Kejriwal, one of the directors of the company.
 
 The unit will have both backward and forward linkages. It will be producing from the two fruits almost all the products that are at present imported. The plantation will be done using Israeli technology that uses raised beds method in the orchard and would employ completely mechanized farming techniques. The company aims at developing a fruit processing park in the area. It is planning to set up units for value added products like essential oils, juices, purées, concentrates, downstream products like yogurts, ice-creams, bakery and confectionary etc
 
 Kejriwal was all praise for the local administration and the Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who, according to him, supported the project to the fullest. “I want to put my gratitude to Maharashtra government on record. I could procure 118 acres agricultural land in just six months. The support I received from the collector Sachin Kurve is unprecedented,” said Kejriwal.
 
 Kejriwal said that Ashish Deshmukh, BJP MLA from Katol, has also been very supportive of the company in last one year. Deshmukh told TOI that he was very happy for the people of Katol tehsil as the unit would uplift the entire area and will be of the biggest in Nagpur district. “We don’t have a single full-fledged integrated unit in entire Vidarbha despite having such a huge orange production. This was a much needed project and will change the scenario of orange crop in the region,” said Deshmukh.
 
 DAPL has already started work of land development on the site located near Zilpa, Bid Jatamanzari and Gondi Mohegaon villages near Katol.
 
 
