VADODARA: A strong stench of chemical gripped most parts of the city on Monday night, triggering panic calls by citizens to the fire brigade. 

 Even as it was evident that the smell emanated from a near-by industrial unit, authorities are yet to identify the source of the stench. 
 
 The complaints of the smell began trickling in at around 7pm from the Chhani area and soon the fire brigade was flooded by calls from across the city, barring a few pockets. Same was the case with the   (VGL) - the joint venture city gas company of GAIL Gas Ltd and   (VMC) - that received calls consistently with citizens fearing that the leak was from their pipelines.
 
 Some people also complained of minor irritation in the eyes. 
 
 Unable to believe that a leak in a gas pipeline could have caused the incident, VMC officials informed the   (GPCB). Teams of VGL, GPCB, fire brigade and even the city police spent a better part of the night trying to trace the source. By around 2.30am, the smell had subsided.
 
 GPCB officials said that the stench was more like a leakage of LPG gas . "After getting complaints, we formed three teams which took rounds of the city till over past midnight but we have not been able to identify the source," said GPCB's regional officer C A Shah.
 
 "The wind direction from 4 pm on Monday evening was west to east, from 7 pm it was   to south east, from 11.45 pm it was north to south and between 1.30 am and 2 am on Tuesday morning it was north east to south west. This reveals that between 7 pm and 11.45 pm, when a majority of complaints were made, the wind direction was towards the city," Shah said. 
 
 Majority of complaints were made from Gorwa area which has concentration of petrochemical complex area, Nandesari GIDC and   and Chemicals Limited. By late night, VGL said that there was no problem with its network and by the nature of the smell too, it was not possible that the leak took place from its system. "Natural gas is lighter than air and cannot settle and travel distances like the smell on Monday night. Some complaints came from areas where we have no network at all," said VGL's director (commercial) Shailesh Naik.
 
 Fire brigade officials said that at least 50 calls of the 'gas leak' were reported to them. The phone stopped ringing only well past midnight.
 
