SHIMLA: In a third such incident in the past 15 days, the district administration foiled a   in Chamba and rescued a 14-year-old girl on Tuesday.

 Mother of the class VII student had fixed her marriage to a 35-year-old man in April, officials said. Her teachers were first to find out about the proposed marriage when the girl, who is a bright student, stopped attending school.
 
 Teachers contacted the officials of women and child development department and child line. The administration admitted her in a children home for her better future.
 
 Kapil Sharma, coordinator, child line, Chamba, said the girl had lost her father while mother had married for the second time to Hamirpur-based man. He said that girl’s mother and her relatives were forcing her on marriage.
 
 He said that since January this year, six cases of child marriage have already come to light in Chamba district. Last year, only two cases were reported in the district.
 
 Earlier, a marriage fixed for February 2 was foiled by the administration. A 16-year-old girl was being married off to a 20-year-old youth. On February 1, a complaint was received on child line after which officials from district administration reached the house of girl’s maternal uncle. Though her parents confessed about the marriage plans, they claimed ignorance about the law. After officials counselled them, they agreed to marry the girl not before she was 18 years and also gave this in writing.
 
 In another incident, the district administration foiled a marriage of a 16-year-old girl with a 24-year-old man at Saho area. The groom and his relatives fled.
 
 Taking note of these incidents, the district administration has launched an awareness drive among people in the district.
 
 Chamba district is one of the remotest districts of Himachal Pradesh. More instances of child marriages are coming from Churah and Salooni areas in the district which are backward and have culture of early marriage. These areas also have higher dropout rates in schools.
 
 Chamba deputy commissioner   said the administration is keeping a strict vigil on child marriages which has helped timely action in such cases. He said the administration is creating awareness among people to stop child marriages through ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padao’ and ‘Hamari Beti, Hamari Muskan’ campaigns. He said girls who have dropped out of schools too are being given special counselling.
 
 
