Tired of swiping left and right on your dating app but still haven’t found the love of your life? Nowadays, for many millennials, the possibility of meeting someone new and exciting is usually through social media meet-ups or dating websites. But the fear of being deceived by an imposter (who knows what kind of predators lurk behind the computer screen!) and the general apprehension of meeting someone through the internet, has made them wary and reluctant.

 However, in the past few months, many   in the city have come up with ‘speed dating’ events, giving youngsters the chance to meet potential partners. A popular concept in the West, it provides young men and women a platform, where they can meet people of the opposite sex on a series of multiple short dates, all in the span of a single evening! Though   first came to India almost a decade ago, it didn’t thrive. Now, the concept is finding takers once again in the city.
 
 
 
 Vijay, who has organised more than 33 speed dating events across India, shares how it works, “We arrange a get-together at a popular lounge, where we invite girls and guys in equal number. In one session, you usually get to meet a minimum of 10 people of the opposite sex, but the number can go beyond that. You get to spend eight minutes alone at a table, with each of the participants. You are given score cards, which contain options like ‘date, not date, friends, etc.’ At the end of the event, we collect these report cards and go through all the answers. If you like someone and vice versa, you are given additional contact details of the person the next day. You can then connect with them and take things forwards.” Shalini Venugopal, a dermatologist, who recently attended a similar event at a popular suburban lounge, says she was pleasantly surprised with the experience because she felt safer and wasn’t apprehensive about meeting strangers because of the casual set up. Says Shalini, “It felt so much safer than a dating app because there are some dos and don’ts one has to follow. For example, you cannot share your phone number and other intimate details and no one can ask you uncomfortable questions about past relationships. So, I felt at ease as there was no pressure or expectations. Also, whoever is participating needs to register in advance. The process requires them to share their age proof, so it acts as a filter and eliminates all possibilities of frauds. Within a span of two hours, I got to interact with 12 different men, so I was in a better position to choose the kind of guy I want to date.” For those who are wary of accepting or rejecting online profiles, these dates are a welcome relief.
 
 
 
 Apart from the transparency it provides, it’s also a practical way of  . Ajay Yadav, founder of another dating group that organises speed dates in Mumbai, says, “As per our research, more and more people are Googling speed dating events in the country. People trust their instincts better when they meet a person face to face. When we calibrate the score cards after the meet up, we figure out what a participant’s mutual interests are, so it’s pretty logical. Also, according to studies, it usually takes three to four minutes to form an opinion about a person. This is what we are providing. Eight minutes might not be enough to know if someone is good for you or not, but it is enough time to know someone whether someone is not good for you.”
 
 
 
 While it’s a great way to meet members of the opposite sex, even if you don’t find your perfect match, at the very least, you end up making new friends. Adds Vijay, “Everyone has different needs. Some come to find dates, some to make friends, and there are even people who come looking for a spouse. Unlike a regular matrimonial website or dating app, this concept is much more direct and transparent. So, we’ve even had people coming in with their parents!” What’s more, speed dating isn’t just restricted to 20-somethings. Ravindra Sharma, an organiser, shares that they have get-togethers for different age groups. “While we have a popular category for ages 25 to 32, we also have started speed dates for people between 33-43. In cities like Goa, we’ve even had the age group 40 to 60. Hopefully, we can try it in Mumbai too. After all, age no bar, everyone should get a chance to find love.” Well, we couldn’t agree more!
 
