AHMEDABAD: After two youths were thrashed in Limbodara village in   for sporting stylish moustache last week, two masked persons on Tuesday allegedly slashed a 17-year-old class XI Dalit student with a blade. Incidentally, the boy, Digant Ma heria, is a witness in the alleged case of assault on one of the youths, Piyush Parmar, who was badly thrashed by upper caste men for keeping a moustache. Digant is also Piyush's cousin.

 Digant sustained a cut wound on his back from the assault with a blade by two masked men. He was rushed to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital. Digant said he was returning home with his friend Pradip after appearing for exams. Near Patel Vas, two per sons, who had covered their faces with handkerchiefs, came on a bike sans registration number with word `Banna' emblazoned on the number plate. They stopped me and one of them slashed my back with a blade.They told me Mayur and Rahul have given Rs 1.5 lakh to kill me,“ Digant told TOI. Mayur and Rahul are accused in assault on Piyush Parmar as well as Krunal Maheria on September 25 and September 29 respectively.
 
 Gandhinagar SP Virendrasingh Yadav said that an FIR has been registered under Section 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and Section 326 (causing hurt by dangerous weapon). “Victims have been allotted personal security. Further probe is on,“ said Yadav. On September 25, Piyush (22), was attacked for sporting a moustache in the village which is merely 15km away from state capital Gandhinagar.
 
 The police had registered an FIR in the case on September 27. Krunal (30), a Dalit, was attacked in the same village for the same reason on September 29. Two cops were deployed in the village after the incident.
 
 Satish Maheria from Limbodara said the third Dalit boy was attacked as the village did not have proper police deployment. “Two policemen armed with lathis were deployed in the village after the two Dalit boys were beaten. After Tuesday's incident, two police vehicles and around 10 policemen have been deployed in the village,“ he said.
 
 After the attack, Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS-home, said that he will ensure proper police protection in the village.
 
