NEW DELHI: Sacked Delhi minister   on Sunday claimed that a businessman being probed for an alleged Rs   funded the Russia tours of AAP functionaries   and  .

 Mishra claimed that “in the 49 days of our government, a committee was formed to probe this (numberplate) scam. It was decided that the contract of this company would be cancelled. But in the second term of the government, it wasn't done. The same person took Singh and Ashutosh to Russia“. 
 
 Mishra posed a set of questions to CM Arvind Kejriwal. “Do you know Sheetal Prasad Singh, who is into the business of high-security numberplates? Do you know about the Rs 400-crore scam... Do you know that some of these companies have links with hawala? (sic)“ he asked. Mishra, however, didn't give any evidence to back his claims.
 
 In January 2016, BJP had approached ACB to register an FIR in the alleged scam. The controversy relates to a cancelled contract between the transport department and a private company (Rosmerta). Satish Upadhyay , the then Delhi BJP chief, had alleged that the company was allowed to issue the numberplates “under the garb of arbitration“.
 
 Rosmerta has claimed that the arbit ration tribunal, in its order on May 21, 2016, restrained the government from taking any “final action“ without its permission. In 2016, the transport department wrote to ACB, recommending an FIR against the company . “I hope this time you will not allege that I am an agent of BJP ,“ Mishra said.
 
 He launched a “Let's Clean AAP“ project and appealed to people who were part of the anti-corruption movement and “now feeling disappointed with AAP“ to join his cause. He claimed that five AAP functionaries had hijacked the party . “We will not leave AAP , we will snatch it back.There is no place for the corrupt in AAP ,“ he said, giving out a phone number for people to connect with him. “I apologise to former party members Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav for using unparliamentary language against them,“ he said, adding: “I didn't realise that corruption was sprouting in AAP when others saw it.“
 
 Sanjay Singh likened Mishra to a comedian. “Comedy show of Kapil Mishra continues,“ he said. In a tweet, Kejriwal's media advisor Nagendra Sharma said: “Horribly wrong script being handed over to Mishra. The poor fellow does not know what he is speaking. Who is misguiding him?“ In another tweet, he stated: “The probe into high-security number plates scam was ordered by AAP . Then LG reversed the decision (sic).“
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Sheetal Singh said: “I purchased tickets for 32 people, including Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh, to go to Russia to attend my nephew's wedding.“ Singh said he, with two other partners, started `Utsav Safety System' (one of the firms that Mishra alleged was linked with the scam) in 2000, but severed all links with it in 2004. “Mishra's allegations are baseless. I left the company firm before the scam,“ he said.
 
 On behalf of Rosmerta, advocate Suren Uppal told TOI: “Sheetal Singh has never been associated with Rosmerta. The case related to the so-called scam was settled in SC in July 2016 with the court finding no wrongdoing on part of the firm.“
 
