Individuals and groups across the country are creating awareness about curbing   and   from the city have started contributing to the same. While some companies have put up signboards urging employees to restrict food wastage, others have adopted measures to convert leftover food into biogas that is then used in the canteen kitchen.

  Then there are those companies that serve small meal portions to their staff so that there is no excess food left in their plates. “We educate our vendors to reduce wastage during preparation of food. We serve predefined meal portions to employees rather than putting up a buffet system. Plus, the daily amount of food wastage is displayed on a board in every food court, thus creating employee awareness about wastage,” says Guruprakash Sastry from  . Employees claim that ever since this initiative has begun, the food wastage has gone down. Similar is the case with another company. Shivani Goyal, an employee of Capegemini, informs, “Seeing the board and other posters put up all around the cafeteria pushes us to curb food wastage every day. It does make you feel bad when you understand how many people the waste food could have fed.” Another company KPIT recognizes the importance of the global war waged against food wastage. They sensitise their employees on the issue by putting up posters on the campus and sending mailers on an ongoing basis. “The amount of food wasted is weighed on a daily basis and the statistics declared and published for the employees. This helps us limit wastage,” says Vaishali Vaid from KPIT Technologies Ltd.
  
  
 While there has been enough awareness with regards to turning food waste into landfill gas, some companies have used this technology wisely. At Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), the company deals with leftovers and other food wastage through segregation and composting. While cooking, there is a lot of wastage. Add to it the leftover food and the amount is staggering. “Canteen waste is divided into streams - wet and dry waste. Wet waste is treated by various technologies thereby striving towards zero waste to landfill,” says Mokshada Kothari, audit and compliance manager at  . Organic waste is treated by a bio digester. She adds. “The technology was developed by Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Food wastage from the canteen goes in as feed into the bio digester. It converts this waste into biogas with the help of bacterial culture. The gas is then used in our company’s kitchen for cooking,” she explains.
  
  Of late, there has also been an upsurge in developing internal policies to curb food wastage in these companies. At  , that used to cater food to the employees till last year, an application that takes orders from local vendors has been developed for the employees. “The Hunger Terminal, as we call it, can be configured for a company with all local food vendors registered on it with their menu items. The company subsidises the bill, pays for it and deducts the amount from the employees’ salaries at the end of the month. This has helped tremendously to reduce food and water wastage,” says Gautam Rege, co-founder of the company. “When people realise the value of food, they tend not to waste it,” he adds.
 
  As part of the organisation and sustainability goal for effective waste management, Infosys employs 100 per cent segregation at source and treats the entire organic waste in-house. Annually, 3.2 million kgs of food waste is potentially diverted and used to generate cooking gas and compost, thus avoiding greenhouse gas emissions and evading major health and environmental damage due to unscientific disposal. “We are also trying to actively engage the employees in reducing food wastage. We organise various activities like street plays and regular mailers for sensitising the employees about importance of the issue. We even have reward-based programs for employees on these lines,” adds Sastry.
 
 At KPIT their aim is to motivate employees to develop a keen attitude towards saying no to food wastage. The practice of recycling the wasted food also measures up as an effective way to divert waste into an environment-friendly solution. “We make sure that the leftover food doesn’t end up going into the bin as a complete waste. We recycle the food and prepare composts out of it and in turn use it for growing plants,” adds Vaishali.
 
 
  Though a lot of people might think of giving away leftover food to NGOs working for the poor, there are a lot of health and legal hazards involved in it. “Giving food to an NGO is not a good practice. The legal liability of left-over food being taken by an NGO and given to people can raise serious health hazards and concerns over hygiene,” says Gautam. He feels that feeding leftovers to dogs too can breed an entirely new problem of a dog menace in the area. “If there is a rise in the dog menace, the company gets targeted. Similarly, if an NGO distributes the food we give them to the needy and someone falls ill after that, again the company is blamed. So it is better to curb wastage or treat it in a different manner,” he adds.
 
 
