The belief that whatever you put out comes back to you motivates  , an entrepreneur to minimise her share of garbage output. She goes several goes several steps ahead than just segregating the garbage into wet and dry waste. 

 "They put garbage in the river but don't realise that they will be utilising the same water. They burn the garbage thinking it will disappear but it will remain in the air and makes us all sick," said the 39-year-old resident of Kumar Shantiniketan. With an adamant mind to reduce her share of garbage Agarwal segregates garbage in much more categories than just wet and dry.
 
 "Segregating garbage into wet and dry is a compulsion in our society, the garbage collectors have been informed to fine Rs 100 for every time people fail to segregate garbage. But I segregate it further the waste into plastic, general waste and e-waste," she added. 
 
 The plastic waste which includes washed bottles, bags, separately is given to   which convert plastics into poly-fuel. The e-waste is given to Janmani organised collection centre at   on Baner Road. The general waste that consists of cardboards, papers, thermocols is given to SWACH, an organisation that deals in solid waste management 
 
 "After separating the plastic and the e-waste the quantity of general waste is so less that I put it out only once a week. The plastic and e-waste is thrown out once a month," Agarwal who deals in organic foods added. 
 
 The wet waste goes to the vermicomposting pit in the society. The pit that receives wet waste from all houses in the society produces enough manure to maintain the society's garden. Additional to that every household gets one bag of manure per month for their utility. 
 
 Agarwal is also canvassing the usage of saree bags. She encourages people to use saree bags rather than using plastic bags in her area. These bags are made by upcycling old sarees collected from the people of that area. The shopkeepers in the near-by vicinity have been advised to give these bags to the customers who ask for bags. Also a social media campaign is being held to promote the usage of these bags.
 
