AGRA: In a case of fraud in which dozens of veteran and serving defence personnel were duped, a car trader in Agra Cantonment area, claiming to be authorised by Canteen Store Department (CSD) of the Army to sell cars, made away with over Rs 1 crore from them.
 
  Bhaati, son of a retired soldier from Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, was running a fake CSD car dealership (Anushree Motors Pvt Ltd.) along with a retired soldier for the last five years and even “sold” scores of cars to officers and jawans over the years in connivance with Jaipur, Ambala and Bhatinda private car dealers.
  
 Bhaati first established his base in the cantonment area by selling cars to defence personnel on discount. Once confidence was built up and words spread about his quality service, he started duping car buyers.
  
 According to sources, the accused Bhaati had opened such fake CSD car dealership in Noida, Gwalior and Mathura as well.
  
 According to victims, Manoj had hired a retired company havildar major (CHM) Hari Om in his showroom, who used to convince soldiers to submit copies of their identity cards, bank account passbook, PAN, Aadhaar, pension book, pension pay order and other documents. Later, after giving a car cost estimate, he used to ask the soldiers to pay the entire amount into his account. Once the amount was wired, he made excuses about the unavailability of cars.
  
 Ex-Petty officer (Navy)  , a victim duped for Rs 3.5 lakh, said, “The entire fraud was based on trust and time. Purchasing a car from CSD takes times, hence victims like me got lured in Bhaati’s fake assurance. He asked us to pay the entire amount in his bank account and assured to handover the car in less than week. Often in UP (Lucknow) there is a waiting of three months for a car.”
  
 “Once the amount was paid, he would start making excuses in delay of car. In fact, he even used our documents photocopies and took loan while the victim wasn’t even aware of it. A navy petty officer posted in Mumbai suffered shock of his life when he came to knew that Manoj had taken loan of Rs 5 lakh by using his documents,” said Mathur.
  
 Ex-sergeant (Air Force)   who is paying EMIs for the car which he never owned, said, “I have to return Rs 2,97,650 to bank, as I took loan to purchase a car. It’s not possible for a civilian to run a fake CSD card dealership in cantonment area without the involvement of local military person.”
  
 According to Sarla V Karayil, CSD depot Agra manager, “Only Lucknow has a CSD dealership for cars. The victims were duped because they didn’t follow proper procedure. They needed to fill forms for cars and get it signed from station headquarter (serving) or district soldier board (for retired).”
  
 “Last month, we received a letter from CSD Mumbai headquarter about Anushree Motors Pvt Ltd., and were told the owner has duped several defence personnel,” she said.
  
 Interestingly, military officials have claimed that since nobody complained about the dealer with them, they had no information about the scam. The police meanwhile has filed an FIR against Manoj Kumar Bhaati, his wife   (managing accounts of the car dealership) and CHM Hari Om. All the three accused are on run.
  
 Speaking on the matter, defence public relation officer of central command, Gargi Malik said, “The Agra station headquarter is yet to give an official statement on the alleged scam.”
 
