 welcomed the second edition of ‘Happy Streets’ outside the DLF Mall of India on Sunday morning. 

 After the roaring success of the first edition, the event saw people turn up in numbers for the fitness carnival that frees up a 1km stretch of road exclusively for activities ranging from skating to cycling, soccer, volleyball and cricket. The inaugural Sunday of the second edition featured yoga sessions, exercise regimes, a few games and other activities. 
 
 Happy Streets will be held every Sunday till April 2 from 6 am to 9 am. 
 
 District magistrate N P Singh, who successfully supervised polling in the first phase of the assembly election on Saturday, inaugurated the second edition of Happy Streets.
 
 Participants said they had been eagerly waiting for the event since last year. Happy Streets aims to promote community bonding and a healthy lifestyle. Besides making people conscious about fitness, it also seeks to spread awareness about sustainable and non-motorised transport to reduce air pollution and traffic congestion. Santoshi Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 78 who took part in the event with her family, said she had been missing Happy Streets as it had become a part of her Sunday routine last year. “I am happy that Happy Streets is back. This time, I enjoyed zumba dancing the most. We will visit every Sunday till the event gets over,” she said. 
 
 With makeshift courts for games like volleyball, cricket, football and badminton, the stretch was high on health and fitness. A giant foosball table was among other attractions at the venue along with a cycle track, where participants could take free bicycle rides after showing a   copy.
 
 The district magistrate, while stressing the need to have a healthy lifestyle, said: “We need to be vibrant and dynamic. This is a good excuse to wake up early in the morning and start the day on a positive note.”
 
 The carnival wrapped up with a special yoga session by volunteers of Sahaj Yoga, followed by a session on meditation and the self-awakening process. But that was only this Sunday. There is much more lined up in the Sundays to come for fitness buffs, yoga enthusiasts, and anyone looking for a few hours of fun.
 
 
