Nagpur: A delay in incentive payouts by the National Insurance Company (NIC) has caused unrest among its freelance policy agents with some having to take personal loans for expenses. Rupesh Pannase, the district president of the All India General Insurance Agents’ Association of Nagpur, attributed it to an upgrade in company’s computer systems which is unable to calculate the incentives over the commissions earned by the agents.

 Chief regional manager at NIC’s regional office Dharampeth Vijay Kumar said that all divisional offices have been instructed by its Kolkata headquarters to calculate incentives manually and process them for payment. According to him, all offices within his division need to submit final accounts for the 2016-17 fiscal year by Friday, after which incentives will be disbursed.
 
 There are approximately 200 insurance agents in the city and around 10,000 in the country, out of which 7,000 have been affected. Pannase claims that the company has already reached its last fiscal year’s revenue target of Rs11,111 crores. 
 
 The association has given an ultimatum to pay incentives by May 5 failing which it will make a fraud complaint with the police. Pannase told TOI agents will stage nationwide protests and will also try and meet state’s finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a later date.
 
 Pannase alleged that a software called ‘Easy’ has been installed as the company’s new salary payout system which does not have a provision to calculate incentives on the agents’ commissions. Each agent is paid 15% commission on the total amount of insurance premiums collected in a month.
 
 “The company updated its software without issuing any notice on January 12. We knew they were planning to do this and suggested that they do it in April 1, the start of the new fiscal year,” said Pannase. 
 
 After realizing the flaws of the software, the company’s head office in Kolkata instructed all regional offices to calculate commissions manually and process payments. However, till now very few agents have received their share.
 
 On March 24, association members met with Kumar and regional manager MB Mishra at the regional office. They were assured that incentives will be paid within seven days. However, there has been word from the office since, according to Pannase.
 
 According to Kumar, Only four or five offices out of the 28 in the division have been affected. “It will take up to four days to calculate the incentives,” he added.
 
 Dinesh Pant, an agent, claims his commission has not been paid since November last year which forced him to take a loan of Rs. 50,000 for personal expenses. “I have been working with NIC since 25 years and collected premiums worth Rs. 50 lakhs. This year I have not been able to pay my children’ school fees because of the delay.” 
 
 Another agent Prakash Wange, is one of the few to have received his incentive, albeit much later. “The company told us that commissions would be paid between the first and fifth date of every month and each month it has been delayed,” he said.
 
 
