AURANGABAD: About 25,000 residents of Devlai can put their water woes on the back burner as the municipal body has finally undertaken the repair work for the 5km long main pipeline connecting   to the main public well in the area.

 After the work is completed, citizens can use the water from the public well. The civic body is likely to restore the line within the next 5-6 days. 
 
 The pipeline has not been in use for the past four year, which is the main reason behind the well running dry. Earlier, when the area was under the   municipal council, the residents would use water from the public well, but due to lack of maintenance the line has developed leakages.
 
 At present, the residents are solely dependent on water supplied by tankers.
 
 Sartaj Singh Chahel, in charge of water supply department in the   told TOI on Friday that the restoration work will be completed soon. “We will supply water to all the authorised water consumers in the area. Moreover, if it is technically feasible the civic body would also provide tap water to those who wish to avail new connection,” he said. 
 
 Chahel said that the erstwhile Satara-Devlai municipal council had laid the line about 7-8 years ago to lift water from the nearby Gandheli lake. “There is a percolation well in the periphery of the lake that has the capacity to cater to the local demand. The well worked well initially, but over a period of time the pipe broke and the authorities did not repair it,” he said. 
 
 But after the Satara-Devlai Municipal Council was merged into the civic body two years back, the local water supply system came under its preview. 
 
 Although the civic body has initiated a process of laying a dedicated pipeline connecting the localities to Nakashtrawadi water treatment plant, the authorities are also keen on restoring the 5km long pipeline to meet the growing demand of water.
 
 Apart from this, the civic body is also preparing a proposal to lay an internal network of pipeline in the area in association with a private engineering college. The project cost is estimated at about Rs 150 crore, but to execute it, the civic body will require a special fund from the state government. 
 
