BELAGAVI: The state is facing   for the third consecutive year and this time, it started affecting people from November itself, said minister for large and medium industries, R V Deshpande on Tuesday. 

 “In such a condition, only god can save the state from disaster, especially rain god,” Deshpande told reporters during his inspection of Gajaminal village, Bailhongal taluk.
 
 Major irrigation minister M B Patil and small-scale industries minister Ramesh Jarkiholi accompanied Deshpande during the inspection.
 
 “By taking early initiatives, the state government is making efforts to minimize the sufferings of people. The government is arranging drinking water, employment for the poor and fodder for cattle on war footing. One of the big steps the government has taken is extending the days of employment under   from 100 to 150. We are not running away from our responsibilities,” he stated.
 
 Watershed work appreciated
 
 The team of ministers appreciated the steps by officials to dig pits for   under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme at Gajaminal.
 
 Joint director V J Patil and deputy director H D Kolekar of the agriculture department said that under the Jalamrut model of water conservation, farmers dig pits at their land. The officials said that the concept in Belagavi district has been shortlisted for national award and many other districts, including Gadag, are following the model. Deshpande and Patil expressed the need to extend the concept to the entire state.
 
 Subsidy distribution from today
 
 Deshpande said that the state government will start transferring Rs 671 input subsidy to the bank accounts of farmers from Wednesday in the first phase. Nearly 10 lakh farmers of 26 districts will get input subsidy of 80% of their demand. In Belagavi district, Rs 20 crore will provided to 43,000 farmers.
 
 Deputy commissioner N Jayaram, zilla panchayat CEO Ramachandran R and Bailhongal assistant commissioner Shivanand Bhajantri were present.
 
  could release water
 
 Patil said that the state has requested Maharashtra to release 4tmcft water—3 tmcft to Krishna and 1 tmcft to Bhima— from its reservoirs. 
 
 Patil said that chief minister   has written to his Maharashtra counterpart, requesting the latter to release water to Karnataka. “Maharashtra will take a decision, considering the availability of water. As there is plenty water in the reservoirs of Maharashtra, there is indication of the release of water to Karnataka,” said Patil.
 
 The minister termed the recent meeting of BJP delegation with Maharashtra CM   a political drama.
 
 
