The song, Aazaadiyan, from   Mukherji’s ambitious   directorial debut,  , has been hitting the right notes and it’s not for nothing. The song encapsulates the painful journey of the residents of the two countries who had to leave behind their land and property to shift to a new place, post the Partition. Everyone’s fighting to keep their share of land — the aftermath is saddening and captured uncompromisingly in 
the song. 
 
 But what really makes the song special is the fact that it’s sung by Rahat Fateh Ali Khan and   — musical maestros from either side of the border. Moreover, the song is turning out to be another patriotic chartbuster involving Sonu and   after Sandese aate hain from Border. 
 Another soulful raag-based track from the album, Prem mein tohre, which is touted as the comeback of the magical Asha Bhosle in Bollywood, has already raked up four million hits on YouTube.
 
  
  
 
 
 Only recently, Asha Bhosle took to social media to express her happiness over the love the track has been receiving from music lovers. “Melody & lyrics still have a place in Indian hearts (sic),” she wrote on her Twitter timeline. Speaking about the musical album, Srijit said, “The music label was apprehensive about the two songs because the arrangement and sequences were not what they usually work with in their soundscape. But now that both the tracks have garnered incredible positive response, I believe they’ve moved past their apprehensions.”
 
 The songs come at a very crucial time too. Of late, the focus has been on rehashed Bollywood songs and EDM-based tracks. But the beauty of melody and lyrics is coming back and it’s not gone unnoticed. When we got in touch with Anu Malik, the music composer of the film, he said, “I’ve worked hard for Begum Jaan. I was recuperating in the ICU when Mukesh and   offered me the film. I hadn’t worked with them for 10 years so it was pleasant surprise. We sat for a narration and at the end of it, I was crying. I knew the film is the Hindi adaptation of Bengali blockbuster, Rajkahini. Srijit expressed his appreciation for the music of Refugee and wanted me to compose for his directorial debut in Bollywood. But I had one condition. I told him I won’t watch Rajkahini or give its music a listen. I wanted to approach Begum Jaan’s score from my own perspective. I got Ashaji (Bhosle) on board and Srijit was elated. He’s a hard taskmaster and a dedicated and clued-in director. It’s been an honour to work with a director like him. I’ve composed a music that not only has a contemporary feel to it but will also stand the test of time. When Ashaji heard Prem mein tohre’s tune, she said it’s the most melodious tune she’s heard in a long time.”
 
 
