PANAJI: Bhaichung   couldn't have been happier with the All India   Federation's announcement that the Indian Super League ( ) and I-League will run simultaneously at least for the next couple of seasons. With several players struggling to find clubs and demand for footballers on the wane, the former India captain and now advisor to   (AIFF) president  , feels this is the way forward.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I think both leagues being played for seven months is the way forward. Right now, the biggest challenge to Indian football is unemployment (of players). Three years ago, you had some of India's top players in peak form struggling to find clubs. The number of unemployment issues we hear at the FPAI (Football Players' Association of India) has been rising. With both leagues playing for seven months each, the number of Indian players (participating) will triple. That's what we want. Right now, 80odd players who sign for ISL clubs then go on loan to I-League clubs. Once the two leagues are played simultaneously, demand for (Indian) players will increase.
 
 
 
 
 In the shorter run, that may be the case. But in the long run, I-League clubs can start producing their own players. They can (also) have top-quality players and have longer contracts.
 
 
 
 
 That happens around the world. You cannot help it. Today  , Barcelona,   all take the best players. Richer clubs around the world buy the best players. Look at Leicester City; they won the Premier League and their best player then joined Chelsea FC, of course, at a price. Like what happens now (in India), players shouldn't move for free. If I-League clubs develop a player and don't want to sell, they can keep him.
 
 
 
 
 A footballer needs right guidance. You must play where you get opportunities to play. That's the key element of football. A lot of youngsters may get big amounts from bigger clubs but not the opportunity (to play). It's here that guidance counts. Money is also important but for one or two years, if you are not running after money, you can benefit in the long run.
 
 
 
 
 Not a bad idea. You have top four from both leagues battling in the Super Cup. Anyway, in the Super Cup, you have to play as per AFC criteria which means three plus one foreign players.
 
