It came as a shock for many when in August last year   was picked as the  . But top BJP sources on Monday confirmed that Rupani was anything but a stop-gap arrangement and the   will be fought under his leadership. A top BJP leader stopped short of saying it outright that Rupani is all set for a second stint as Gujarat CM. Known as BJP President Amit Shah’s loyalist, Rupani was picked over   as the successor of Anandiben Patel.
 
 Nitin Patel’s office had even gone ahead and announced that he was picked for the CM’s post only to retract the statement later. “What is wrong with Rupani (Vijay)? The election will be fought under his leadership,” a top BJP functionary said when questioned about BJP’s CM face for Gujarat. Rupani, a Jain, is widely seen as a political lightweight. The Jain community, though political and financially powerful, is a miniscule votebank in Gujarat. His accession to CM’s post, however, helped BJP manage the Patidar protest which was threatening its prospects.
 
 “Can anyone pinpoint remarkable work done by him as the CM? He just replaced Anandiben Patel and BJP chose him because he plays into the hands of BJP's mighty like Amit Shah. I am sure, Rupani’s working style of being a puppet is what must have impressed the BJP. He gets all the work done as instructed by the BJP bosses," said senior AAP leader Gulab Singh Yadav. Rupani’s constituency of Rajkot West is where Prime Minister Narendra Modi won his first election from in 2002 to become Gujarat Chief Minister.
 
 However, Rupani became an MLA for the first time only after Modi became the Prime Minister. He has largely been non-controversial, mid-line toeing politician who does not believe in confrontation or aggression. “Vijay Rupani has not done badly. Considering he does not have a large support base like Nitin Patel or others, he has managed to do quite well as CM. His aggressive showcasing of what his government has achieved helps with his image too,” says sociologist Ghanshyam Shah.
 
 BJP kick-started its campaign for the Gujarat on March 29, setting a target of 150 seats in an assembly of 182 members. It currently has 116 members and its own best was in 2002 when under Narendra Modi they won 128 seats. It was the Congress government under Chief Minister Madhavsinh Solanki in 1985 that boasts of the highest tally of 149 seats. Amit Shah, who himself is an MLA from Naranpura constituency, aims to break this record. Shah will be spending three days in Gujarat on July 10, 11and 12.
 
 “We are taking the battle very seriously. Though there can be no comparison between party’s position in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, we plan to invest the same scale of effort,” a BJP general secretary said. Congress leader and former GPCC president Arjun Modhwadia said, “Rupani is a political novice. In cricket lingo he is the night watchman who has been made the captain. The BJP does not wish to have its top players as their captain as they will then become the permanent captain. Rupani is just a replacement for the permanent captain, who is presently not in town, until his return.”
 
 Countering Modhwadia, BJP’s state spokesperson Bharat Pandya said, “Sensitivity, decisiveness, transparency and progressiveness are the four pillars of Vijay Rupani government. He has taken 300 decisions within a short time as a CM which is a record in itself. Besides, he has resolved more than 40 lakh personal problems through his programme Seva Setu. Besides the Pragati Setu for development where problems pertaining to road, pani, sadak and bijli, which are budgeted works are resolved has seen 78 per cent success, according to a survey.
 
 He added, “Rupani has also identified departments where corruption prevailed and 3,000 employees were transferred in one stroke. There is not a single allegation of corruption against the CM and his Centre-state coordination has been top class." In 2012 polls, Congress had managed to corner nearly 39 per cent voteshare while BJP had nearly 48 per cent vote-share. This time, with NCP and JD (U) alliance a three-corner contest is expected. It would have been a fourcorner battle had Aam Aadmi Party too fought the polls. After the recent debacle in Delhi municipal polls, AAP, which had been building the party here for the past two years, is now uncertain about throwing their hat in the ring.
 
