KOLHAPUR:   and  ,  , in a college function on Friday said that the state must enact a law for the   and rejuvenate it.

 Singh said, “The state government is not stepping up to improve the water crisis situation across the state. The state has taken an effort which is certainly not enough. They have failed to link the crop pattern with the rain pattern, resulting in suicides across the country.
 
 He added, “Kolhapur is culturally, naturally and historically an important place and citizens should make sure it remains the same. The city is currently struggling with the Panchganga issue and the government must enact to prevent it from deteriorating further.”
 
 He added, “The first and the foremost step must be to separate the sewer line from the river. Once the sewer water mixes with the clean water, it easily gets polluted raising water pollution levels in the river.
 
 On giving out solutions for a cleaner water body, Singh said, “Organic farming must be promoted within 5km of the river so that the sewer water does not get mixed with clean water. College and school students must come forward to clean and take care of these water bodies.”
 
 He also suggested that river linking projects will destroy the country and it is of no use. There must be a protocol for the rivers. If there is no protocol anybody can do anything with the river bodies. Our rivers are like the freight trains, which only carry waste with them these days, he added.
 
 Besides the government’s responsibility, it is also the responsibility of the community in large to make sure that the water remains clean. He said, “Water pollution levels have come down at Latur city and the reason is community work and not contractors work. Contractors work for the profit, without caring about nature. The final sufferers of such acts are common people. Therefore, citizens need to step-up for the community contribution.”
 
 Possible solutions for Panchganga revival
 
 *Organic farming in 5 km sideways of a river
 
 *Mixing of river and sewer water must be prevented
 
 *Colleges and university should step up and take care of water bodies
 
