MUMBAI: Nayana Kathpalia of Citispace, an NGO working to ringfence Mumbai's public spaces against encroachments, has a sobering view on the civic election which middle-class Mumbai traditionally prefers to give a miss.

 According to her, the absence of voters is ironic because a corporator touches the life of a citizen more than any other politician. “Everything that runs the city is done by them roads, water, garbage, hawkers, open spaces. It is very important we get the right people into BMC,“ she said.
 
 The BMC is not only the richest municipal corporation in the country but also one of the most transparent. Every paisa spent can be tracked, thanks to a system designed by the colonial government. Every proposal has to go before a   which is a group of corporators, who debate, discuss and decide. 
 
 What's more, the committee is supposed to take up proposals put forward by ward-level panels of citizens in various areas. Nominees on the panels are usually a corporator's loyalists and the standing committee nowadays gets circumvented by a Group Leader's meeting where decisions are taken on which contractor is to be awarded a particular work. But the point is, city hall can be held accountable if the right people are elected.
 
 Corporators often complain they have very little say and it is the municipal commissioner who decides on all manner of things. But V Ranganathan, former BMC commissioner, said this view is inaccurate. “Powers of the municipal commissioner are very limited. Approval of proposals, sanction of funds, award of contracts are done by the standing committee and other statutory committees and the BMC House.“
 
 Ranganathan said even power to take disciplinary action against municipal staff vests with corporators. “The corporator has a very important role to play. Performance of the corporation depends on work done by the corporator. And being an elected representative his work carries weight,“ he said.
 
 Former municipal councillor   said given the complexities of the city , citizens need to elect corporators with vision, who participate in the development of the city. “Ward committees were set up with the intention that citizens along with councillors would plan and budget for the area.This would then be sent to the standing committee for its approval. The entire idea was nixed in the bud as the standing committee felt its powers were being usurped,“ said Joshi.
 
 Nitai Mehta, founder of Praja Foundation that monitors the work of corporators both in the BMC House and out side said the quality of corporators in the last 15 years has not met expectations. “Citizen participation is a must as BMC affects our lives on a day-to-day basis. Citizens can begin by not voting for those with serious criminal charges. Ensure the candidate they choose is educated and has some grassroot experience. If the candidate is a repeat then do look at his past record,“ he said.
 
 To understand what's at sta ke, consider for a moment that the BMC is also one of the largest land owners in Mumbai and its Improvements Committee, again comprising corporators, is custodian of these public lands. The corporation also runs a chain of primary health centres and super-speciality hospitals like KEM, Sion and  , which together cater to nearly 50 lakh OPD patients annually. BMC also provides education.  , a nominated member of the Education Committee, said not many know that it spends approximately Rs 50,000 per child annually. BMC teachers earn Rs 30,000Rs 50,000 per month, plus they have fixed tenure and pension.Yet civic schools are infamous for poor infrastructure and poor quality of education.
 
 Clearly, it's time to stem the rot. Will Mumbaikars step up and take charge?
 
