THANE: Over 82 tonnes of   including flowers and leaves which adorned the idols of Lord Ganesh during the 10-day   are now in the process of transforming into good quality manure which will be used to fertilise the gardens across the city.

 While fresh flowers and leaves have been a part of the decorations in many festivals for decades, they would often ended up thrown into the water bodies and thus pose a threat to the aquatic life beneath.
 
 Over the past six years, the members of city-based   Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth along with the support of the Thane Municipal Corporation, have not only been segregating this floral waste at the source in the visarjan areas, but also converting it all into fertilizer which is then used to help maintain the city’s greenery.
 
 “When the festival is over or even the flowers that adorn the small home temples wither away, people don’t throw it in the garbage bin, as these flowers were used for God. They, thus, ended up throwing it in the creek or any water body, without realising that these flowers decompose and harm the aquatic life,” said Bhatu Sawant, CEO of the NGO.
 
 “Over the past six years, we have tried to reduce this pollution level by setting up big pots at visarjan spots so that people can keep the flowers in it before immersing their Ganpati idols. Once the crowd disperses, we segregate the flowers and leaves from the non-biodegradable waste, transport it to the floral waste management plant in Kopri with the help of the civic machinery and begin the process of transforming it into fertilizer,” he added.
 
 Once the green waste reaches the plant, it goes through yet another minute segregation process after which it is crushed into a pulp using a crusher, mixed with a bio-culture mix and left for processing. Once this is done, the bacterial process begins wherein the micro-organisms activate and produce heat, which then evaporated the water from the pulp. 
 
 Once it cools down, the generated soil is put into an Eisenia fetida worm bed, for the vermi-culture process to start. After this 45 day long process, the fertilizer is ready. 
 
 While the NGO has collected over 82 tonnes of floral waste this Ganesh Chaturthi which will yield around 17 tonnes of fertilizer, they have scraped up over 18,000 tonnes of such green waste during festivals and from temples and housing complexes and generated over 3,700 tonnes of manure over the past six years. 
 
 
