MUMBAI: While the seven   are being prepped to receive Mumbaikars who are expected to throng   in  , the birds seem to have already settled into the rockwork exhibition area that was painstakingly created by a team of dedicated artists over four months.

 As Humboldt penguins are natives of the desert coast of Peru and Chile in South America, a   was created to make them feel at home instead of a snow-covered environ. 
 
  On July 26, 2016, eight Humboldt penguins (three male and five female) were brought to Byculla zoo from Coex Aquaeium, Seoul in South Korea, and kept in a quarantine facility where temperatures are maintained at 16-18 degrees Celsius. 
 
 The artists began work on creating the exhibit area in the 18,000 sq ft interpretation centre with a 400 sq ft pool in the zoo as similar to the penguins’ natural habitat from November 2016—a month after one of the penguins died owing to bacterial infection. 
 
 “We were instructed to create a home for the penguins using rocks in the exhibit area,”   Anil Ghate told TOI. “We created the rockwork not just in the exhibit area but also at the entry and exit of the viewing area so that visitors get the feel of viewing the birds in their natural environment.” 
 
 He explained that the rockwork was created using Portland cement manufactured from chalk and clay which hardens under water and a biochemical adhesive. The artists ensured that there were no hollows within the pool area to avoid fungi formation. Also, as the birds can jump only up only up to four inches, the rockwork has been designed only up to that height. 
 
 The artists also smootened each and every rock so that the penguins can easily move around without getting hurt. “The rockwork is spread across a 7,500 sq m area. We took care to ensure there were no sharp edges so that the penguins could safely move from the pool to the surface and vice versa without any hassle,” said artist Kedar Ghate, an alumnus of JJ School of Art.
 
 The artists said that one of the toughest challenges was to erect the glass panel through which people could see the penguins. “As the glass weighs around 1,500kg, it was a challenge to set it up. The entire process took around 11 days,” said Kedar.
 
 On Friday, the Humboldt penguins will be put out for public viewing. But as the inauguration ceremony will be held at 6pm, after the zoo’s closing hours, Mumbaikars will be able to view the birds only from Saturday. 
 
 
