MUMBAI: The ripple effects of the   getting stuck in mud at   on Tuesday night continued to be felt even hours after its retrieval. 

 Hundreds of passengers who had flights into and out of Mumbai on Thursday expected to encounter only short delays, but were caught unawares as a number of flights were delayed by two hours or more. Worse, about 50 flights were cancelled, 38 of them operated by Jet Airways. Air India too was hit—to a much lesser degree. Both airlines operate wide-bodied aircraft for  . 
 
 With only the shorter secondary runway operational all through Wednesday, these flights were diverted to other cities. Bringing them back to Mumbai, re-planning the subsequent departures, and getting pilots and cabin crew rostered for these took a toll on airline schedules. Among the cancelled lot were Jet’s return flights to Calicut, Hyderabad, Goa, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Delhi, and Chennai.
 
 Pradyna Mhatre, whose son was to land from Goa (9W 627) around 2.45pm, said the flight finally landed at 8.30pm. Air India passengers on flights to Varanasi and Coimbatore were inconvenienced as the airline cancelled two connections (AI 696, AI 658) to these destinations. Among the other Jet and Air India delays were arrivals from Jodphur, Chandigarh and Vishakhapatnam, not to speak of international arrivals—AI 191 from Newark was scheduled to land at 1.30am, but landed at 8.30am, Jet Airways 9W275 from Dhaka arrived over six hours late at 9pm. GoAir’s Mumbai-Goa flight, which was to depart around 4pm , left at 6pm. What added to passengers’ misery was that Mumbai airport is a silent airport (no flight announcements are made) and a number of flight display boards showed inaccurate information.
 
 Expectedly, passengers’ anger spilled over onto social media all through the day. With a picture of an inaccurate flight display board, Sagar Shetty, a passenger, tweeted in the morning: “#jetairways mum kolkatta flight delayed by almost 2 hours .And still showing on time ..And the worst no one here to answer.” Rahul Piprade, booked on a 11.30am Mumbai-Goa flight tweeted: “Jet Airways 9W475 you guys ruined our Bachelors party. Curse is better word.”
 
 None of the airlines issued a statement on flight disruptions. Trouble for passengers began at Mumbai’s airport on Tuesday night when a SpiceJet Boeing 737-900 aircraft landed amid rain and strong wind, only to overshoot the hard-working main runway and get stuck in mud. Flight operations had to be moved to the poorly-equipped secondary runway, which lies unfavorably in the northwest-southeast direction. Strong westerly winds from the Arabian Sea had aircraft landing on the secondary runway face incompatible tailwinds and crosswinds. On Wednesday night, about 24 hours after it got stranded, the SpiceJet aircraft was moved from its resting place and in about three hours the main runway was reopened. But as became evident in the course of the day, the problems for passengers were far from over.
 
