JAIPUR: Bureaucracy that strictly runs on rules and regulations has no place for philosophy. Though, it did not deter a young IAS officer   to dwell on in  , faith, atheism and penned his thoughts in form of a   ‘Confessions of a Dying Mind: The Blind Faith of Atheism’.

 The work by a 2011-batch officer who hails from hill state of Manipur and posted in Rajasthan is scheduled to be released on May 19 by Union minister of state for home affairs Kiran Rijiju. 
 
 Guite is currently posted as officer on special duty (OSD) in the Rajasthan Finance Commission. He became IAS officer at the age of 23 remains the only IAS officer from the Guite community. The author’s educational background is varied as he moves around the social science subjects with ease. Guite graduated in Philosophy from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University (DU), and was admitted for postgraduate program in Modern History in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).
 
 The title, ‘Confessions of a Dying Mind’ alludes to the story of the main protagonist, Albert Dyers - an atheist who undergoes a life-transforming near-death experience. The sub-title, ‘The Blind Faith Of Atheism’, references the philosophical conversations the main protagonist has with an entity who claims to be an angel, Walker. 
 
 “Most books on God are written in a way that they end up being either too shallow to be taken seriously - or too deep to be comprehended for the lay thinker. I believe the novel format gives a rather unique platform where a balance can be found,” said Guite. Foreword of his novel is written by a former chief secretary of Rajasthan, C K Mathew. 
 
 Guite claims that IAS was never his dream. Instead, he wanted to be a philosopher but became bureaucrat because if his father. However, he has no regret of joining IAS as the amount of good that an officer can do can be quite critical. “Like everyone else, every IAS officer develops hobbies, to alleviate the tensions of work and pressures of life he says. Some choose to play golf or badminton, others learn music or swimming, and still others entertain themselves in various other ways. My hobby is to read and write. And this book is the result,” said Guite.
 
