NAGPUR: Central jail’s internal security came under scanner when  , serving triple life sentence for murder of Kush Katariya, was murdered by another jail inmate   on September 12.

 Additional director general of police (Prison) Dr Bhushankumar Upadhyay old TOI, “The unit was set up to take preventive measures. This unforeseen incident has challenged our officials. There were several other incidents reported in which inmates thrashed each other or committed suicide. Time has come for improving the working of PIUs.”
 
 Ayush Pugaliya’s murder raised questions over Prison Intelligence Units (PIU) formed by additional director general of police (Prison) Dr Bhushankumar Upadhyay , who was on an official visit to the city on Monday, in nine central jails and   district jail of the state around six months back to keep a watch on 31,000 inmates in these prisons.
 
 Dr Upadhyay informed each unit consists of two jail guards who keep a watch on inmates and report to him. The units were formed mainly to prevent untoward incidents from happening, curb group rivalries that have increased and crack down on dominance of particular groups, detect possible conspiracy of jail breaks, get to the root of mysterious deaths of inmates, suicides and know possible crimes that an inmate may be planning to commit after being released.
 
 Similarly, there were many cases of convicts using mobile phones inside the jail to continue their unlawful activities, including extortion and drug peddling rackets, networking with accomplices out of the jail and supplying firearms and so on.
 
 However, the fact that despite the presence of PIU, Pugaliya was murdered inside the Barrack 5 of Nagpur Central Jail by an inmate himself serving life imprisonment for murder, put them under scanner. Guards supposed to be keeping watch on the inmates seemed to have failed as they were not aware of tiff between Pugaliya and Kotnake that was reportedly going on for over a month. There are around 2,300 inmates in Nagpur jail, according to jailer Vikas Rajnalwar.
 
 Upadhyay added the proposal for the installation of high quality CCTV cameras inside the jail had been sent to state government.
 
 Mangal Murti lawn by inmates
 
 Additional director general of police (Prison) Dr Bhushankumar Upadhyay on Monday inaugurated Nagpur central jail’s Mangal Murti lawn near   campus. It was developed by the inmates of open jail. The one-acre lawn will be available for holding functions to jail staffers as well as to general public. DIG (Prison) Yogesh Desai, SP Rani Bhonsale, several jail staffers and inmates were present on the occasion.
 
