CHENNAI: The maiden official visit of chief minister   to New Delhi is said to have borne fruit. Union minister of road transport, highways and shipping   on Tuesday sought the cooperation of the state in implementing several projects that have been on the back burner since the Narendra Modi government took charge. Gadkari impressed upon the state on the implementation of a Rs10,000 crore project to lay a four-lane   on the   between Chennai and Kanyakumari.

 The ambitious programme of the   would help ease congestion on other national highways connecting the state capital, but the existing road comes under the jurisdiction of the state. “The upgradation will improve the coastal circuit, which has a number of tourist attractions. There is lot of scope for improvement to the road network in the state if this coastal route is developed. The sections are to be uniformly upgraded to cater to the large vehicular movement,” Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan told TOI. The state relies heavily on National Highways 45 and 7 for heavy vehicular movement. 
 
 The state team led by Palaniswami was asked to avail the Centre funding for the schemes, most of which have been gathering dust for nearly two years due to political developments.
 
 Radhakrishnan said it was time the state took up projects envisaged by the Centre appropriately. The deep sea trans-shipment port proposed at Colachel has been estimated to cost Rs27,570crore, as per a techno-economic feasibility study. “The state has been repeatedly saying it wants a detailed project report. We told them to support the project first,” the minister said, pointing to strident criticism among certain sections. The development of the port at Enayam near Colachel will be implemented between 2017 and 2030.
 
 The state also sought help from the Centre on the proposed outer ring project in Madurai, which would cost Rs5,000 crore. Palaniswami has demanded that the Centre convert the 800km long state highway into a national highway. A day after meeting PM Modi, Palaniswami called on Union ministers Venkaiah Naidu and Ravishankar Prasad too. “We have requested Venkaiah to construct one lakh houses in Chennai, and to also help implement Chennai peripheral road project,” Palaniswami said. He sought Ravishankar Prasad’s help for approval of the two Bills exempting the state from NEET.
 
 
