NAGPUR: Social organization Janmanch’s inspection of cement roads has once again exposed the poor quality of work being done by city’s agencies. 

 Janmanch activists on Saturday morning inspected the cement road between Pratap Nagar Square and Khamla Square, constructed by state public works department (PWD) just over a month ago. Several flaws in construction came to fore during the inspection of the road which is in chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ constituency.
 
 The road has deep indentations on its surface at several spots. Against permissible indentation of 4mm, the indentation when measured by Janmanch vice-president   was up to 40mm. “The fine aggregate comprising cement, sand and fly-ash has come out and the coarse aggregate has been exposed. Gradually, the gravel in the coarse aggregate too will start coming out and create potholes. This shows that concrete used in the construction was of inferior quality and curing has not been done properly,” Pawde told the journalists present at the spot.
 
 Pawde then pointed out that PWD had not fitted interlocking blocks at many places, as a result of which the cement road at these spots had a sharp edge. “This is a traffic hazard and people can lose life if they skid on the sharp edges,” he said.
 
 Janmanch president Anil Kilor pointed out that the concrete blocks used for road dividers were of extremely poor quality. When he scratched one of them with a ballpoint pen, a hole was created. “Instead of using epoxy resin, they have used cement paste for binding the blocks. The blocks will soon start coming unstuck,” he told the media.
 
 Another activist Yogesh Nagpure dropped an interlocking block from a height of three feet and it broke into two. “The blocks are supposed to be made of richest grade of concrete. They should be able to withstand a load equal to three loaded trucks. It is clear that very inferior quality of material has been used for making these blocks,” he said.
 
 Kilor also pointed out that the stormwater drains had not been cleaned by the   (NMC). “The cement roads are higher as compared to the area in front of houses along the road. Water will enter the houses during the rains,” he said.
 
 He appealed to affected citizens to lodge police complaints against the responsible NMC and PWD officials. “I appeal to the NMC to clean the stormwater drains before the rains start. Jan Manch will undertake an inspection of waterlogging along the road during rains. If it is found that water is accumulating due to negligence of officials, then we won’t spare them,” he said.
 
 Commenting on the poor quality of construction,  , executive engineer of PWD’s World Bank division, said that a third party audit had been done by the department. “The contractor has been asked to make the necessary repairs. He will complete it before onset of rains,” he added.
 
 
