NAGPUR: Governor Ch   Rao cleared the draft bill of the   last week, a month after it was forwarded to him. Earlier, the historic bill was unanimously cleared by assembly and council during winter session in Nagpur on December 8. The gazette notification is now likely to be issued by March first week.

 “It is now up to the government to start the procedure,” governor’s PRO Umesh Kashikar told TOI. Education minister   refused to pick up TOI’s call or reply to text messages.
 
 The officials from the state higher and technical education department informed that they had constituted a panel to bring uniformity in various statues governing all state universities. 
 
 “All universities have their own statues. To avoid confusion, the panel would be working on introducing common statues, which would make it easier for universities to implement the new Act. Their work is on last stage and they would submit their report soon,” said senior official  .
 
 It’s a tedious task to convert the bill into actual Act which carries all the rules and regulations in minute details where each section is well defined. The officials from the higher education and, law and judiciary departments are working hard in this regard, which would take about a month.
 
 “In all probability, the new Act would be notified before the budget session of the assembly, scheduled to begin on March 6,” according to deputy secretary with state higher and technical education department, Siddarth Kharat.
 
 He added that the official gazette would be notified regarding implementation of the Act by the traditional universities. The notification would contain guidelines and directives on its implantation.
 
 “We need to notify as early as possible, else it would further delay the   (BOS) and students elections. It would take a minimum of six months for conducting polls from the date of Act’s implementation. If it’s cleared in March, then the universities would be able to hold polls by September-October,” Kharat said.
 
 Deliberating on the common statues, he said their panel would be meeting on January 30, 31 and 1, for finalizing the draft. “We will conduct a couple of more meetings if required, and complete entire exercise as soon as possible, so that new Act could be officially notified by March first week,” he said.
 
 The new Act would bring about biggest reform in higher education sector after a gap of over two decades, as it would replace obsolete ‘Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994’. The students-centric law would also bring smiles on the faces of sportspersons, NCC and NSS activists who can’t participate in major events when examinations were underway, or else they would lose precious academic year. 
 
 Among major changes in comparison to old Act, the new one made it mandatory for all universities and colleges to set up ‘Vishakha Cell’ to curb growing incidents of sexual harassment and strongly deal with them. 
 
