UDHAGAMANDALAM: During his maiden visit to Ooty as chief minister,   announced Rs 2 crore for modernisation of the main bus stand in the hill retreat. 

 He made the big announcement after inaugurating the 121the edition of the popular   at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) here on Friday.
 
 “Paying heed to petitions by local MLAs and MPs, Ooty main bus stand will be modernised soon at the cost of Rs 2 crore,” Palaniswami said, adding, “ I have received several petitions from the public and they will be addressed over the course of the time.”
 
 The three-day flower show would conclude on Sunday. The main attraction of the show was a floral structure of Mahabalipuram shore temple which was 26ft in height and 26ft in length. It was made of over one lakh cut-flowers. Another highlight of the show was a replica of a hornbill made of several thousands of cut-flowers. 
 
 About 15,000 flower pots featuring liliums, petunia, balsam, French marigold and begonia, among others, were on display at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) as part of the show. People were taken up by the Tulip flowers imported from Holland.
 
 Added attractions were 15 floral arches, including the one depicting the emblem and a selfie spot made of carnations roses and liliums that was arranged by the horticulture department.
 
 The show also featured stalls by Raj Bhavan, Madras Regimental Centre, Defence Services Staff College in Wellington, Horticultural Research Institute, banks and colleges, besides cultural programmes that included tribal dances.
 
 The inaugural event was attended by agriculture minister R Duraikannu, municipal administration minister S P Velumani, agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi, horticulture commissioner Archana Patnaik and local MLAs and MPs.
 
 “Nilgiris people are gifted as the late Amma visited the district more than any other place in the state,” the chief minister said apparently in a bid to woo the local people gathered there. Palaniswami explained his political career at length and tried to drive home the point that he was always preferred by Jayalalithaa.
 
 The GBG has been sanctioned Rs 8 crore for enhancement works of glasshouses and pavements, said the agriculture secretary, Gagandeep Singh Bedi. “The Government Rose Garden has been sanctioned Rs 7.50 crore for improving infrastructure and Sim’s Park in Coonoor has been allotted Rs 2.50 crore for compound walls to prevent Indian guars from entering the park,” he said. 
 
 Tamil Nadu Governor C Vidyasagar Rao is expected to arrive in Ooty on May 20 to attend the valedictory function of the show on Sunday.
 
 
