The Marketing Intelligence team of the cyber crime police station on Tuesday arrested two persons -- Sabbarapu Vasavi and Sandhya Laxmi -- who had cheated many people with fake matrimonial profiles. According to the police, the duo would lure the victims into registering with their bureau named ‘New Life Matrimony’. They also gave advertisements in vernacular papers. They would charge the prospective grooms anywhere between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 for registration. Later, they would call the victims, pretending to be the bride or groom as the case may be, only to reject them. 

 Man held for stabbing uncle
 
 SR Nagar police arrested a 21-year-old car driver, Kaleem, in an attempt to murder case on Tuesday. On Sunday night, Kaleem stabbed his uncle, Saleem, 48, during an altercation over a petty matter at the latter’s house in Fatima Nagar of Borabanda. Saleem is recuperating at a local hospital and, based on his complaint, SR Nagar police arrested Kaleem from Borabanda on Tuesday. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 Brother raided, two sex workers rescued
 
 Sanathnagar police arrested a man and rescued two sex workers from a brothel on Monday night. Acting on a specific alert, police raided at a house in SRT Colony of Sanathnagar and caught a private employee, Anil, when he was exploiting the two sex workers. The two sex workers are from Kolkata and police shifted them to a rescue home for rehabilitation. Cops launched a manhunt to nab the organiser of the brothel and the owner of the house.
 
 One held for selling fake gold coins
 
 Acting on credible information, the Special Operations Team of the Cyberabad police, nabbed a fake gold coin seller on Tuesday. During investigation the cops found out that it was a gang of four who were involved in the crime. Police said that on January 18 the accused B Bhagvanthu had sold a genuine one-gram gold coin to his customer Shaik Neeuamatullah. Subsequently, he along with two of his accomplices, had convinced the victim to buy 525 more coins for Rs 1.5 lakh. But the coins turned out to be fakes. From Bhagvanthu’s possession the police seized two cell phones, Rs 1.2 lakh in cash and some fake gold coins.
 
 Couple cheat AP woman, arrested
 
 The detective department of the city police on Tuesday arrested a couple for cheating one Vanaja Rani, a resident of Pondipadu village in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. The duo identified as K Hari Babu and K Padmaja Rani had forged signatures of the complainant and obtained loans from private banks in her name. The couple were remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
