VADODARA: While it may be no secret that several ‘therapists’ from abroad work at spas in the city, police here seem to be content with making ‘immoral human trafficking’ cases against persons who run sex rackets under the guise of spas.

 When a spa parlour was raided recently, the verification of the visas of the therapists was not done. Inquiries at some of the spas in the posh western parts of the city by TOI revealed that ‘therapists’ from Indonesia, Thailand and Russia are working there.
 
 The law states that any foreign person who comes on tourist visa and indulges in work or business activity shall be arrested and detained or confined. However, the police has not taken any such action so far.
 
 On March 12, when the police had raided Green Spa in   for allegedly running a prostitution racket, four persons including the owner were arrested. Cops had also found four Thai girls working in the spa, who were allowed to go later without verification even when they had only tourist visas.
 
 In contrast, the rural police arrested a Thai man last week for flouting of visa conditions. The special operations group (SOG) of rural police had arrested   who had come to city on tourist visa and had conducted business meetings at Apollo Tyres at Waghodia in January 2016. An official of rural police said that any foreigner who flouts conditions of visa can be arrested under section 14 (b) (c) of Foreigners Act.
 
 An officer at the   office in Ahmedabad told TOI that the foreigners’ registration office in the office of city police commissioner is responsible for taking action against foreigners who flout conditions of their visa. The special branch of the police department is responsible for taking action such persons. But the branch has neither arrested nor detained the four girls so far.
 
 “They cannot be detained or arrested, but a report of their flouting of visa conditions can be made. This has to be submitted to   who deport them,” said assistant commissioner of police (special branch) Megha Tevar. She added that in such conditions all that can be done is deportation much unlike what was done with Kooim by the SOG of the rural police.
 
