There was a time when both would bump into each other regularly. The meeting ground was not any film set or a recording studio. When   was studying in  , he found a friend in his junior,  . While collaboration was the most natural thing to do, little did Kaushik know that his upcoming film, Bishorjon — which was declared the Best Bengali Film in the 64th National Film Awards announced on Friday — would turn out to be a tribute to the folk singer, who passed away in an accident last month. The film has the folk musician’s last recorded song.
“I’ve always idolised Dinendra Chowdhury, who, for me, was the final word in folk music. Having said that, I have seen   grow as a musician. By the time we left university and Dohar was formed, people became well aware of his research work in folk music. With Dohar, he introduced a new sound in Bengal; it was authentic folk that sounded fresh. For me, it was going back to the roots and I attended Dohar’s shows in plenty. So, when Bishorjon was conceived, I knew no one could score for it better than Kalikaprasad,” recalled Kaushik, the National Award win still fresh on his mind.
 There’s a sequence in the film, where immersions take place in river Ichamati. Durga idols from both Bengal and   are immersed at the same time and it turns into a picture of celebration, with people lining up the banks, irrespective of their religion and nationality. “It’s a real incident that takes place every Dashami and people throw mishti and lozenges at each other. The immersions are always peaceful with border guards watching over. To translate this grandeur on screen, I needed sound to back up the visuals. And whatever the audience will see on screen wouldn’t have been possible without Kalikaprasad. He came up with the beautiful song, Nao jaye re, a mish-mash of a few popular folk songs arranged differently,” the director said.
 Kalikaprasad, who didn’t charge a penny to compose for the film, was happy that folk music was getting a popular platform. “He recorded a scratch for a low-tide song, Ja jaye jaye re bhaishya bhatir taane/ Ononto bhasane kande bhatialir gaane, which I had written. He sent it to  , who was modest enough to admit that he perhaps wouldn’t be able to do justice to it. It was then decided that Rupankar would sing it. Just two days before his recording, Kalikaprasad passed away. I couldn’t have made any other singer replace his voice and have retained the song in the film with acoustic music. After music labels learnt about his song, many of them approached us for the rights. They were offering hefty amounts, but my producer, Suparnokanti Karati, refused to do business with music that Kalikaprasad made for free,” he said.
 Kalikaprasad, who believed in authenticity, used different instruments for the score. “He would bring dhaak to the studio and got in touch with sanai players… I was also privy to the beautiful relationship he shared with his wife, Ritocheta. She had come to the studio to record the Lakshmi Puja song and Kalikaprasad would flood her with instructions, while I kept busy with their daughter outside,” he said. The film has two more songs — the only folk number rendered by Nachiketa called Ekul ar okul, haraile dukul and Kalikaprasad’s Bondhu tor laigya re. Though it’s one of the director’s finest albums, Kaushik is sad about the lack of support he has received so far. “Most radio stations are not playing the songs as they aren’t ‘peppy enough’. Kalikaprasad turned a more filmi Sa Re Ga Ma Pa into a classy show with his folk music. It’s sad that most people are not aware of his last works. It’s like robbing Bengalis off their Bangaliana,” said Kaushik as a parting shot. 
 
 
