PATNA: It will be a litmus test for Prime Minister  , who announced demonetisation of old Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes in November last year, when Union finance minister   will rise to present general budget in Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Bihar, which is grappling with financial crunch following implementation of prohibition last April, too has high expectations from the budget.

 From agriculture, healthcare to tourism and civil aviation sector, all key segments in the state are looking forward for a game-changer budget, which could push the individuals as well as the state on the growth trajectory. TOI presents a snapshot of the prevailing scenario in different segments of the economy in Bihar and their expectations from the budget:
 
 Agriculture: Agriculture is widely considered to be the backbone of Bihar’s economy and it is in consideration of this fact that the   government is pursuing a ‘Krishi Roadmap’ for 2012-2022. The BJP manifesto in 2014 Lok Sabha election had also promised to raise profitability levels in agriculture to 50% above costs.
 
 “We are facing drought from past three years. I hope the Modi government will provide incentives for alleviating farmers’ plight. The budget should have crop insurance schemes and special packages for small farmers,” said Sudhanshu Kumar, a progressive Samastipur-based farmer.
 
 Health: In its 2015-16 budget, the Union government had promised to gift a second All   (AIIMS) to Bihar. However, the proposal is yet to see the light of the day. In 2014, former Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had announced that two research centres – one at Muzaffarpur and another at Darbhanga – would be opened to ascertain the causes behind outbreak of encephalitis cases every year in some districts, but the government has not taken any initiative in this regard so far.
 
 Tourism: The Union budget for the ongoing fiscal had provisions of Rs 100crore for Prakashotsava celebrations, out of which around Rs 60crore was spent in Bihar only. Besides, around Rs 100crore were allocated in 2013 general budget. In 2015, the ministry of tourism had allocated Rs 50crore for development of various sites in the Gandhi circuit across the country under the ‘Swadesh Darshan’ scheme.
 
 As the state government is intending to organise similar grand celebrations for yearlong Champaran centenary commencing from April, expectations are high for allocation of sufficient funds for the same in the upcoming budget.
 
 Civil aviation: The much-awaited expansion of Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, Patna, is slated to commence from July as both central and state governments have agreed to transfer land for the same. Funds to the tune of around Rs 500crore are expected to be spent on construction of the first block of the new terminal building and it is to be solely borne by the   (AAI). Hence, there are expectations of provision for budgetary allocation for the same. 
 
