MYSURU: South India’s first replica of   was inaugurated at Gandhi Study Centre premises in Manasagangotri, the PG campus of   on Monday. Apart from Gandhi’s belongings, the ashram has over 100 rare photographs, including those shot when the leader was a law student in South Africa and cycling towards Sabarmati ashram for a prayer meeting. 

 President Pranab Mukherjee had laid the foundation stone for the ashram during the inauguration of UoM centenary celebrations earlier. The university had taken the initiative to set up a replica of the ashram to create awareness on the Gandhian principles on non-violence among young minds. The construction works on the ashram started six months ago. The ashram houses Gandhi’s belongings and a collection of over 100 photos depicting his life and times, including those on Dandi march, his visit to Bengaluru in 1937, Gandhi-Kasturba’s return to India from South Africa and the like. An exclusive library is also being built to house books and journals on Gandhi, and his sayings. The department has already published 50 books on Gandhi, and 50 more are in the pipeline. 
 
 Speaking after inaugurating the ashram, UoM VC K S Rangappa said: “It gives me immense satisfaction to inaugurate the replica of Sabarmati ashram. One can’t forget Gandhi’s principles and his contribution to the country. The replica is a centenary gift to the centre.” 
 
 Machane Daniel Isaac, member of Country Operation Management Team of the  , said: “The model of the ashram is an attempt to bring the essence of the lifestyle and teachings of Gandhi close to younger generation. It’s an important tool to create awareness among youths on values, nation-building and harmony.” 
 
 Prior to the construction of the ashram, a team from Gandhi Study Centre, headed by its director S Shivarajappa and executive engineer Kishore Chandra, had visited Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to study its plan and layout. There are also plans to construct Gandhi Path and put up for display sculptures of Gandhi and his famous Dandi march. A proposal for Rs 2.10 crore has been sent to the state government, and the latter has promised to allocate funds in its budget. 
 
