BENGALURU: Summer is yet to arrive but   K, a resident of Vijayanagar, is already feeling the heat. Thanks to the rising temperature, riding to his   office every day is becoming an arduous task. “I am sweating profusely by the time I reach office. Even in the afternoon, I have to brave the sun as I walk for some distance to get lunch. If this is the situation now, I can’t imagine what’s in store in the next few months,” he wonders.

 According to the Meteorological department, summer is yet to begin. However, the mercury is already soaring, troubling residents, especially those who have to work under the hot sun. While the maximum temperature for Thursday hovered at 35.2 degrees Celsius, department officials say the figure is still low compared to last year’s highest temperature for February — 35.5 degrees Celsius.
 
 “February saw the highest temperature in 2005, when the figure touched 35.9 degrees C. Dwindling green cover and increasing pollution levels are some reasons why people are feeling hot,” a Met department official said.
 
 The official, however, said there are enough indications that the temperature is going to rise in March and April. “The temperature is likely to climb to 38 degrees Celsius,” said a senior official from the Meteorological Centre, Bengaluru. 
 
 It may be recalled that for March, the highest ever temperature was recorded in 1996, when the mercury levels touched 37.3 degrees Celsius. Given the current indications, the record may be breached this year, said officials. In March 2016, the maximum temperature was 36.6 degrees Celsius.
 
 
 
 
 Over the next few days, Bengaluru is set to get hotter, given the clear sky. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 35 and 19 degrees Celsius respectively due to the dry weather prevailing over the state, said met department officials.
 
 There is not much change in minimum temperatures elsewhere in the state. However, they are marginally above normal at most places in coastal Karnataka and some in interior Karnataka.
 
 According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), 74% of the geographical area in the state recorded maximum temperatures in the range of 34-38 degrees celsius on Thursday. At 41.2 degrees Celsius, Sindhanur in Raichur district saw the maximum temperature for the state on Thursday. Parts of Raichur, Mandya, Tumakuru, Bagalkot, Yadgir, Koppal, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Ballari, Uttara Kannada, Kalaburagi and   witnessed temperatures between 39˚C-41˚C.
 
