BHOPAL: Rejecting all speculations about imposing total prohibition in   from October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the state finance minister   said, on Tuesday that government is not contemplating to effect a total ban on alcohol from the current financial year.

 "The government is not at all considering total prohibition in state in the current financial session as it takes a lot of preparations before taking such step", Malaiya told reporters after returning from BJP executive committee meet in New Delhi.
 
 He said as a part of social awareness campaign, the government is running a state-wide drive to make the young aware of the consequences of addiction and alcohol abuse. A sudden ban on alcohol could create more problems related to illegal hooch or spurious liquor. He said he was not aware where from the rumour of total prohibition has arrived.
 
 "Total prohibition from immediate effect is a rumour as government will have to think about all aspects and consequences. I am not aware where from these rumours have generated but we are sure that any such decision would come with a thorough preparation on the part of the state government", Malaiya told TOI.
 
 It was in April this year when Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that all liquor shops would be closed across the state in a phased manner and the state was heading towards a total prohibition. Chouhan, however, stressed that government would run awareness campaign to enlighten youth to do away with alcohol abuse.
 
 “Alcohol prohibition will be implemented in the entire state by closing all liquor shops in a phased manner. But, we want to make the youth aware of it,” Chouhan had said while addressing public in village Neemkhera (Heerapur) of Narsinghpur district.
 
 Later, during   Yatra, the chief minister clarified that after detailed discussions with public it was decided that government will motivate people to quit boozing on their own and work on controlling illicit liquor in rural and urban areas.
 
 The government later, announced to close all liquor shops situated near the bank of river Narmada and also discouraged traders to run liquor shops near residential localities, educational institutions and religious places.
 
 Recently, the state government had announced to earn Rs. 10000 crore from the sale of liquor in the entire state, a whopping 25% higher from the previous revenue collection of Rs 7500 crore during Narmada Yatra.
 
 Sources in the finance department said that the government had compensated the revenue loss on liquor sale by increasing the price of the liquor.
 
 "In such case, when the department is earning profit from the sale contributing to the state's coffer, it is difficult to scrap down the revenue sources without an alternative arrangement", said officials in the secretariat.
 
 
