Madurai: Come June 5, solid waste management will be made mandatory in the city, with the corporation planning to lay stress on bulk generators like hotels, which generate more than 100kg of waste per day. The initiative will gradually be taken to all buildings, including residential houses in the city.

 As a part of the initiative, corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri addressed the owners of hotels on Friday. 
 
 He said that cleanliness in all spheres is being stressed as part of the Swachh Bharat mission across the country. As a result many initiatives like banning plastic bags and preventing open defecation are being undertaken. 
 
 From June 5, on the occasion of World Environment Day, it was proposed to implement solid waste management strictly, where the waste generated would have to be segregated at source.
 
 All buildings, including eateries, lodges, hotels, houses, commercial establishments, roadside stalls would have to comply and segregate their waste and hand it over to the garbage collectors. As much as 800 tonnes of garbage is generated in the city everyday and if it is segregated at source before being collected it would help in reuse of waste that can be recycled.
 
 Hence, from June 5 onwards the bulk generators will have to have two garbage bins on their premises - green and blue coloured ones. 
 
 While biodegradable wastes such as leftover food, tea bags and natural material would have to be deposited in the green bin, non-biodegradable or recyclable wastes like aluminium foil, trays, food and drink cans, cartons, paper and plastic bottles will have to be put in the blue bin.
 
  Those who generate the waste also have the option of preparing manure from the biodegradable waste and using it in parks in their area. All roadside shops and eateries will have to follow the solid waste management method strictly, he said.
 
 The commissioner said that steps are being taken to paint the garbage bins in the corporation limits in these two colours and also equip the tricycles used for garbage collection with these bins. People who dump their waste without segregating on the roadside would be monitored by the ‘thooimai kavalar’ appointed by the corporation and they would be fined on the spot. 
 
 Steps are to being taken to manufacture manure from waste and also biogas. As much as 400 tonnes of the waste generated can be recycled and it would be enhanced to 600 tonnes.
 
 City health officer Dr Satishraghavan, assistant city health officer Palanisamy, president of Madurai hoteliers association, Kumar and secretary Ramachandran among others were present.
 
 
