Security checks,  , protests, or something as bizarre as onlookers blocking the road to click swanky cars – you can get stuck at the   at any given point and for all possible reasons.

  It’s Monday morning and you are already experiencing the post-weekend blues while heading to work. To make matters worse, the   Flyway was choked yet again. This time, the reason was the route diversions for the Republic Day parade’s full-dress rehearsals, which caused massive jams in Delhi-NCR, particularly the DND. Two days ago, members of a political party had blocked the road while campaigning, leading to a long queue of cars on the Mayur Vihar side. The same evening, the entry of sports cars on the toll plaza led to selfie-seekers and overzealous onlookers to jam the road again. The bottom line is – if there is something happening in Noida and East Delhi that causes a blip in traffic, the DND will get choked.
 
  
 
 Several office-goers commuting between Delhi and Noida were stuck on the DND Flyway on Monday morning, with many spending over two hours at the toll plaza. Rajat Arora, a marketing professional from South Delhi, says, “I was on my way to my office in Sector 15 when I reached DND around 9.30am, where there was a massive jam. I thought it would ease out in 20-30 minutes, but I ended up stuck on that road for about two hours. I reached office only by noon. Talk about a non-productive day!”
 
  But even as most people got (very) late for work, they were spared from any dressing down at the hands of their bosses, since the bosses were late, too. Aarti Roy, who works in Sector 15, says, “I reached office over an hour late even though I had started from home half-an-hour early today. Thankfully, even my boss reached late, so I was spared of any scolding.”
 
  
  Jam-packed: Monday morning was witness to another massive   on the DND (BCCL)
 
  
 
 Many   say that with the DND toll free now, they had thought jams would reduce, but that hasn’t happened. Avinash, a student living in Sector 19, says, “Every time there is some festival or route diversion in Delhi, this area gets choked. I had thought that after it being toll free, the jams would subside, but this has only gotten worse now. Since now everyone knows ki yahan toll nahi hai, more cars pass through and hence, jams are more frequent.”
 
  
 
 Raman Anand, who takes the Flyway six days a week to commute between South Delhi and  , says, “Last year, there were jams during the  . This year, it will be political rallies and campaigns. Beech mein koi festival aa jayega. Bas kuch bhi ho, DND will always see a jam.”
 People say that they are now resigned to the fact that DND will always see a jam on any ‘abnormal’ day in NCR. Rachit Singh, a resident of Sector 26, says, “Security measures ho ya political protest, humein toh jam mein phasna hi hai. It seems as if this area has been cursed to endure jams and we are caught in that.”
 
 
 On Saturday morning, there was another cause for jam on DND – two imported sports cars were caught in the middle of enamoured selfie-seekers at the roadside. One was a Lamborghini and the other was a Porsche, with Chandigarh registration numbers had parked towards the side of the road just after crossing the plaza. Pretty soon, they were mobbed by bystanders, who wanted to click pictures of the swanky looking cars. Overwhelmed by the sudden attention, the two cars tried to speed away but found themselves surrounded by selfie-seeking onlookers on all sides. One passenger from the car in front had to eventually alight and request the ‘rabid fans’ to move aside and let the cars pass. But enamoured by the sparkling cars, the bystanders were not in a mood to let them go without capturing that perfect picture. In the end, after 15-20 minutes of ‘negotiations’ between the passengers and the crowd, the cars managed to make their way past the mayhem and they promptly sped away towards the interiors of the city.
 
 
  Onlookers surrounded Lamborghini and Porsche cars when they crossed the Toll plaza on Monday morning
 
 All this caused a minor jam at the toll plaza for almost half an hour with several dozen people standing in the middle of the road surrounding the two cars and blocking the path of the cars behind them. Lajpat Nagar resident Ravi Shukla, who was crossing the toll plaza at the same time, said, “I saw a huge crowd gathered towards the side of the road and thought there must have been some accident but as the crowd proceeded to spill to the road, I realised they were flanking two luxury sports cars, trying to take pictures. I managed to get away quickly but friends told me that they were stuck there for almost 30 minutes.”
 
 
 
