KOLHAPUR: The bodies of two martyrs will be flown to their respective villages in Satara and Sangli district on Wednesday morning so that their families can perform the last rite ceremonies. 

 Of the soldiers found trapped under the snow in the Macchil sector, five were rescued but succumbed to their injuries. Two of them belonged to the districts of Sangli and Satara. Ganesh Kisan Dhavale (29) belonged to Asare village of the Wai taluka in Satara and Ramchandra Shamrao Mane (34) belonged to the Karoli village from Kavatemahankal taluka in Sangli.
 
 They were trapped under snow after a track caved-in in the Macchil sector of Kupwara, Jammu and Kashimir on January 28. They were rescued and brought to Srinagar on January 30 after which they succumbed to their injuries.
 
 Prashant Satpute, district information officer of Satara said, "The mortal remains of Ganesh Dhawale will arrive in Pune by Tuesday evening and will be kept there for night. On Wednesday morning the body will be brought to his native place in Asare village through procession and by 11 pm, last rites will be performed by family members."
 
 Dhavale was the sole bread winner of his family. He is survived by his parents, wife and a four-month-old son.
 
 The villagers have begun preparations for the final homecoming of their local hero. District administration officials also paid homage to the brave heart on Tuesday. 
 
 In Sangli district, residents of Asare village and neighbouring villages from Kavatemahankal taluka are also preparing themselves for the final homecoming of their brave heart Ramchandra Mane. 
 
 Ramchandra had two elder brothers and all the three siblings joined the Indian Army. His eldest brother Bhanudas retired from the forces in 2016. His other brother Anil is still serving in the   and was at home on leave when the news of Ramchandra's death reached home.
 
 Born in 1983, Mane completed his primary education in a school from Zilla Parishad and got admitted in a college in Kavatemahankal. He joined Indian Army in 2001, before completing his college education.
 
 This is not the first time Satara is losing a   to such an accident. In 2016, a 25-year-old solider from Satara district died in an avalanche. In February last year, Sunil Suryavanshi, Sepoy of Madras Regiment, hailing from the Maskarwadi village from Man taluka in Satara died after he was buried under an   that hit an Army camp on the Siachen Glacier. 
 
 
