 
 
  
  
 
  I have spent 20 years in the Congress. I know the party in and out now. In 2012, there were last minute changes in the ticket distribution which prevented us from winning a few more seats. Why did the party do that? Elections need months of homework. When preparation doesn’t happen, it affects the chances. Since the Antony report recommending that a CM face should be announced a year before elections has been accepted, why has the party not implemented it? Do it at least three months before polls. What can work for the party in Gujarat is only door to door campaigning. To convince people to vote for the Congress, serious candidates have to be introduced early in the game. The key words in politics are ‘homework’ and ‘human connect’. Both are missing in Congress.
  
  
 
  No! My rift with the BJP is personal. Sometimes there is a negative feeling you develop against some people due to personal experiences. That feeling does not go away easily. I can leave the Congress because the system doesn’t seem to be working. But I won’t wear the tag of the BJP. Earlier, I would walk towards a pit when my leader asked me to, but not anymore. Napoleon said to march on over the bodies of dead soldiers. I won’t do it. The Congress doesn’t have a killer instinct but if it is heading towards a suicide, I am not going to be part of it.
  
  
 
  There is nobody more experienced at candidate selection in Gujarat than me. I have been requesting Sonia and Rahul to take my advice on candidate selection seriously. Like now, there is nothing decided on JD(U), NCP. The waiting list of candidates gets longer and longer and the psychological damage when decisions are made at the last moment are enormous. The Congress leadership today doesn’t believe in consoling hardworking ticket seekers who fail to get a ticket. If these disappointments happen early, at least people like me can reach out to disgruntled candidates and explain, “the party is with you. We will take care of you next time. Just make the party win this time”. Sometimes, all that party workers need is compassion and words of consolation from leaders. That thing is missing in the Congress. The minority community is with the Congress but when you know polarisation would take place, it is better to get the faith of the community and work towards the larger picture.
  
  
 
  Any leader needs to understand that an architect has the perfect understanding of how the bricks should be placed for constructing a building. An outsider, however big he is, will not know how to make the building stand. He shouldn’t dictate — place the brick like this, slant it; the building would collapse then. Decisions on Gujarat should be best left to people who understand the state. But when you don’t understand Indian ethos you are dependent on advisers who cannot be trusted all the time. The grip that Modi has, or that Indira had or Vajpayee had on the country, other leaders will never have. 
