RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: The   (NBWL) will give clearance to the   in   after it studies the   on the Palamu Tiger Reserve's (PTR) ecosystem. 

 The members of the NBWL met in New Delhi on Monday to review the petition of the state wildlife board seeking environmental clearance for the dam. 
 
 The NBWL told the delegation from the state - comprising chief wildlife warden Lal Ratnakar Singh and PTR field director MP Singh - that it will send a team of experts in the next 10 days to study the environmental impact of the proposed project on the tiger sanctuary.
 
 The NBWL team will comprise environmental scientists from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and two tiger conservationists. A representative of the state forests department will also accompany the team which will study the area of PTR's buffer area which is likely to be submerged under water if the dam is operationalised. The team will return to New Delhi and submit its report to the NBWL, based on which the final call on issuing clearance to the Mandal Dam will be taken. 
 
 The Mandal dam was envisaged in Kutku and Mandal villages of Latehar as a part of North Koel river irrigation project in the 1970s. The 367 metre-high dam is to irrigate a large part of neighbouring districts of Bihar. The construction of the dam's walls was completed in the early 1990s but the installation of sluice gates was halted amid environmental concerns. 
 
 The state wildlife board under chief minister Raghubar Das gave clerance to the project in April after it asked the height of the dam to be reduced by 26 metres and sent the proposal for the NBWL's clearance. As per estimated calculations by engineers of the irrigation department, with the revised height the dam will submerge 1,000 hectares of PTR's buffer area against 6,000 hectares expected if the previous plan was approved. Sources said at least eight villages on the reserve's buffer zone will be submerged if the dam gets operational.
 
 While environmentalists are still sceptical about the project's impact on the PTR state's chief wildlife warden LR Singh said, "The wildlife management plan prepared for the PTR has a total rehabilitation plan of Rs 101 crore. It has detailed plans for compensatory afforestation and resettlement for villagers who will be affected."
 
 
