NEW DELHI: Following allegations by sacked minister Kapil Mishra that   had received money from shell companies, the party on Tuesday claimed that both   and   had illegally accepted funds in violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act.

 AAP functionary Atishi Marlena said, “Over the last few days, BJP has raised questions about AAP’s funding. Both BJP and Congress have illegally accepted funds from foreign subsidiaries of Vedanta.” According to FCRA rules, donations from companies where more than 50% investors are foreigners is illegal. Marlena said both Congress and BJP were found guilty by Delhi high court in March 2014. The court had directed the Election Commission and the ministry of home affairs to take appropriate action against the parties within six months, she added.
 
 In June 2015, she said, EC wrote to MHA pushing for action against BJP and Congress. “The governments run by these parties suppressed the issue and, finally, BJP amended the law governing foreign donations,” Marlena said. “FCRA was amended through the backdoor by introducing it as a money Bill (which does not need Rajya Sabha approval) by BJP last year, shielding it from a Rajya Sabha veto,” Marlena said. She claimed that the amendment changed the meaning of foreign sources to legalise donations made by Vedanta to both parties. “This retrospective protection would make donations made after 2010 valid. Donations received by both parties from Vedanta from 2004 to 2010 continue to be illegal,” she claimed.
 
 AAP spokesperson   said: “It is unfortunate that parties who have illegally received   are raising questions over the transparent funding of AAP.” He claimed even the home ministry had submitted affidavits in the high court stating that there were no irregularities in AAP’s funding.
 
  BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said AAP was trying to divert public attention. He said: “AAP should come clean on it and not ask questions in place of replying (to the charges).” Delhi Congress chief spokesperson   said AAP should not hesitate to face probe if its funds was transparent. 
 
