COIMBATORE: The   protest committee will stage a protest at KG Chavadi, on the Kerala border, on March 12 against the Kerala government’s move to construct six   across Bhavani river.

 The decision was taken at the committee meeting held at the   in North Coimbatore on Sunday. Committee co-ordinator and Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) general secretary   told reporters that the Kerala government started the check dam construction work across the Bhavani at Thaekkuvattai in Palakkad district a few months ago. “The committee had alerted the Tamil Nadu government about the move and requested it to intervene in the issues. But the Kerala government made use of the turbulent political situation in the state and constructed a check dam at Thaekkuvattai. They have now selected a place at Manjakandi to construct another check dam. We need to act fast to prevent the latest move,” he said.
 
 Tamil Nadu has the right over Bhavani water as the river originates from the Western Ghats in Nilgiris district, Ramakrishnan said. “If the Kerala government goes ahead with the dam construction, the state government should divert the river to Tamil Nadu. This would teach Kerala a lesson,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK deputy general secretary   hinted at the necessity to launch a mass awareness drive on the issue. “The committee should visit all villages and towns in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts and explain to people about the situation. We should seek the support of various farmers’ associations and the general public in this campaign against the Kerala government. We have to generate funds for the protest committee. Then we have to file petitions before the Supreme Court against the Kerala government,” she suggested.
 
 The committee is comprised of members from all political parties, except those from AIADMK and BJP. Functionaries from DMK, VCK, KJK, Congress, TMC, Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, various Tamil outfits and farmers associations participated in the meeting.
 
