PATNA: For the first time since the creation of Jharkhand in 2000, the membership of   in truncated   is most likely to cross 1 lakh mark this year. Otherwise, the highest gross membership mark of the CPI in united Bihar used to be 1.14 lakh in 1978.

 Still, the CPI continued to have slightly over 1 lakh members till 2001. The party’s membership had started falling under the twin political impact of the intensified Mandal (pro-reservation) and Kamandal (pro-Ram Janmabhoomi) campaigns from 1990 and yet remained stable due to its alliance with the RJD led by Lalu Prasad till the late 1990s.
 
 To counter the ‘kamandal’ upsurge, the party started observing Martyr’s Day on January 30 on a mass scale, specially after the demolition of   in December 1992, said former CPI MLA and writer Rajendra Rajan.
 
 “Earlier, only our mass or frontal organisations used to hold functions on the Martyr’s Day. The party realised the cultural and political significance of Mahatma Gandhi to reach out to people and stress on the need to uphold secular values after that fateful day (Babri Masjid demolition). Even this year, we will organise demonstrations at the district and block headquarters to condemn the killing of Gandhi,” he said. 
 
 The party has extended its reach over all the 38 districts in Bihar. For some time, Kishanganj used to be out of its ambit, but the party has, for the first time, established its village level units even there. Overall, it has its block level or local committees in 300 of the 534 blocks spread over 38 districts in the state.
 
 During 2015-16, the CPI had slightly over 80,000 members, excluding the members of its frontal organisations like progressive writers’ association (PWA), all India students’ federation of India (AISF),   (KMU), Bihar Pradesh Kisan Sabha,   Congress (AITUC) and Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA).
 
 “The membership of the frontal organisation goes in several lakhs, but not all of them can become the party members. Any formal request made by or for an individual to become a member of the party is put on hold and then his or her activities for the party are observed for six monsths. Only after proper watch and verification of his or her activities is an individual inducted into the party,” said its state council member Indu Bhushan.
 
 He said the final figures regarding the number of the party members could be known by March-end. “Going by the trend, the consensus in the party is that the membership would cross the 1 lakh mark,” Bhushan said. 
 
 
