 / Agra: Mohd Asif, famous for making sumptuous biryani at his restaurant on one of the serpentine lanes of Muslim-dominated Kotla locality in Meerut, tells his customers to enjoy beef biryani for one last time. From the next day , he says, he will be serving chicken biryani. Across Uttar Pradesh, as the newly-formed government continues its crackdown on alleged illegal slaughterhouses and meat shops, meat, particularly of buffalo, has vanished from the market.

  used to supply 50 buffalos a day to slaughterhouses in Meerut. “On the day the BJP won elections, a total of 500 buffalos were sent by various suppliers for slaughter, which was the normal figure every day. Today , it is zero. Since there was no government slaughterhouse, two major meat export units, belonging to (former MP)   and (BSP leader)  , used to slaughter these animals. Both slaughterhouses have been shut down,“ he said.
 
 Even those who are slaughtering buffalos on their own are not able to sell the meat, suppliers said, because the authorities enquire about the source of any consignment of meat being transported anywhere.
 
 The spillover effect can be seen on mutton and chicken too. According to a mutton seller, the authorities reprimand them even when they have licences, because the permission is for selling the meat, not for slaughtering the animals. “We slaughter goats at our shops. Where else can we do it? Everyone from the veterinary department to police and civic bodies come here with all kinds of questions. If one department finds we have all the permits, another tries to find a discrepancy,“ said Raees Ahmad, a mutton shop owner in Meerut.
 
 The sector that has taken a direct hit is UP's meat export industry . There are 179 slaughterhouses in UP, out of which 134 are run by the government. However, 113 of them were closed much before the crackdown started.Of the 45 in the private sector, 36 were operational. The combined daily slaughter capacity was 23,348 buffalos and 16,430 small animals. In 201415, 60 million tonnes of meat were exported from India, of which UP's contribution alone was 11 million tonnes.
 
