Kolkata: Auto drivers on the Garia-Golpark route blocked Raja SC Mullick Road near 8B at Jadavpur from 11am to 11.30am on Tuesday to protest against alleged hight-handedness by Jadavpur traffic guard. 

  Auto drivers claimed that a colleague, Rajib Naskar, was penalized by a sergeant, Raja Roy, who went on to slap him. The police pointed out that the driver was fined as he had violated road rules. 
 
 Naskar was driving a Garia-bound auto and he blocked the road illegally to pick up passengers near a PC Chandra Jewellery shop at the Sulekha crossing. “I saw the driver blocking the way of other vehicles and decided to spot-fine him with Rs 100. The driver offered to pay in coins. When I refused to take them, he went to a grocer to exchange the coins for a Rs-100 note, which he handed out to me. But he kept grumbling even after paying the fine. My body cam has recorded the entire episode,” Roy said. The police did not mention about the slap.
 
 The incident took place around 9.30 in the morning, the drivers got together around 11am and blocked the stretch from 8B bus stand till Jadavpur police station by parking their vehicles in two rows from the middle of the road, leading to a traffic jam. Though the cops managed to remove the vehicles, the jam continued. Moreover, the drivers refused to ply for the next four hours. The Jadavpur police hinted they might register a case. 
 
 Some auto drivers and Naskar’s family alleged he was being victimized. “He had merely picked up a passenger at the crossing. The sergeant tried to impose his strictures. But was there a need to raise his hand?” said an auto driver.
 
 This is not the first time that this route has been in news for the wrong reason. From allegations of molestation, injuring passengers and scuffles, the auto route has earned notoriety. 
 
 To check errant drivers, police said they had started issuing Rs-2,000 fines to those refusing to ply the entire distance. “This response from auto drivers blocking the road was expected,” said a source. 
 
 Police, commuters and even Trinamool insiders claimed the problems began when minister Shobhandeb Chattopadhay dismantled the Garia-Golpark auto committee. 
 
 
