KANNUR: “I and you are one. Your prayer call and the sound from our conch convey the same message—the message of universal brotherhood…” When the Vishnumoorthy theyyam at   in Perumbatta in Kasaragod, came to the   on Thursday, its actions and words transcended the barriers of religion.

 When the theyyam stood wrapt in profound meditation listening to the prayer call from the masjid, the thronging devotees forgot their religion for a moment and became mere humans.
 
 Probably there is no better example of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood than this theyyam at Perumbatta, where Hindus and Muslims enjoy organizing the festival together.
 
 “The camaraderie in the  , organized once in three years, is centuries-old and the ultimate message is that we should break down the conventional boundaries of faith,” said M C  , the festival’s organizing committee chairman and a ward member of  .
 
 “Unlike in other regions, this temple and mosque on the banks of the Tejeswini have a spirit of brotherhood. In ancient times, the Hindus used to go for hunting during the temple festival. Before going for hunting, they used to come to the mosque as part of a tradition,” he said, adding that the practice of Hindus visiting the mosque still continues though hunting of wild animals has been banned. The animals they hunted were cut and dried in the mosque, which would later be used for the annual festival at the mosque.
 
 He said while Muslims take part in organizing the festival at the temple, Hindus join the celebrations in the mosque.
 
 The Perunkaliyatta Maholsavam could not be organized for some years due to several reasons and was revived recently with the support of the Muslim community, said Shibu P P, president of the temple committee.
 
 “The ‘give and take’ has always been there for centuries and we continue it even today. It has been a bonding beyond religion,” he said.
 
 Though there are many local myths associated with ‘vaastu’ and faith connecting the temple and the mosque, the basic idea is solidarity beyond religious boundaries, said M C Perumbatta, a local Muslim youth.
 
 Practice your faith to banish the poison of hostility, the theyyam exhorted the Muslims gathered in hundreds and said they should practice their prayers five times a day. As the theyyam prepares to return, the Imam placed a currency note on his headgear and the theyyam offerred a tender coconut in return, adding that almighty is one and only one.
 
