BENGALURU: In a clearing indication that the infighting in the state BJP unit is nowhere close to getting over, disgruntled BJP leaders skipped the crucial party meeting convened by state unit chief and former chief minister   on Thursday.

 “Such meetings won’t serve any purpose as we are quite sure that Yeddyurappa won’t pay heed to any of our demands. We can expect some justice only with the intervention of senior  ,” read a message sent by a section of disgruntled leaders to the party’s official mailing address.
 
 The leaders also demanded that Yeddyurappa immediately withdraw the suspension of two aides of K S Eshwarappa, leader of opposition in legislative council. Former mayor D Venkatesh Murthy and senior functionary   were suspended from the party’s primary membership.
 
 In a recent letter, 24 members from the party expressed their resentment against Yeddyurappa’s style of functioning and sought reorganization of the state and district-level units.
 
 With this development, the ball is in party national president Amit Shah’s court now. “None other than Shah can put the intra-party disturbances to rest. But he is busy with the upcoming assembly polls in five states. I feel infighting will continue till the polls are over. But this could severely damage the party’s prospects for the 2018 assembly elections,” said a BJP leader.
 
 Earlier, several attempts by Yeddyurappa’s supporters to invite the dissident leaders to the meeting failed. Yeddyurappa also put off the scheduled meeting by half-an-hour to facilitate their arrival, but eventually none turned up.
 
 While Yeddyurappa chose not to react after the meeting was called off, BJP’s state general secretary   said the decision of disgruntled leaders to abstain from the meeting convened by the party president exposes their real intentions and shows they aren’t interested in finding a solution.
 
 Some leaders in the Yeddyurappa camp said the dissidents backed by Eshwarappa failed to turn up because their strength had dwindled from 24 to 10, after Yeddyurappa agreed to hold a meeting. Of the 24 leaders who reportedly signed the letter, they claimed, 10 told Yeddyurappa that they hadn’t actually signed the letter. 
 
