Nagpur: A musical composition or a song has an identity beyond the confines of a film. Five young VNITians wanted to challenge the monopoly of   in the music scene of the country. They have come up with ‘WWW.CoCreato.COM’, a technology-based community platform for musicians, attempting to change the way music is created in India.

 This community aims to enable musicians to create their own music without having to worry about the audience. Though work on the initiative started last year, it will be formally inaugurated on October 1 by  .
 
 “There is one common trait in all musicians, which dominates the music scene today — collaborations.   helps the same through its click and brick model — a technology platform and physical spaces,” said CEO  , adding that creative endeavours require collaboration between people to make it successful. The platform encourages and facilitates hyperlocal collaborations between musicians.
 
 The CoCreato studio, which has opened three weeks ago, has seen over 40 jam sessions so far, informs Sanket Gomase, head-of-operations at CoCreato. The start-up already has a database of over 600 musicians in Nagpur itself, he adds. Nikhil Lodhi, Advait Modak and   are co-founders of the start-up.
 
 “A curator posts a jam most often to create an original song on the app or the website. The creators apply to the jam and are selected by the curator. After that, a time for the jam is decided and a slot for the same is booked at a CoCreato space. After 5-6 jam sessions, a musical composition is created. The best composition of the month is selected by the masters for further production,” says Gomase. The CoCreato space is available free of cost to all musicians.
 
 The CoCreato community works in a three-tier hierarchical arrangement — an entry-level musician or creator, a mid-level musician or curator, and an experienced musician or master. The community regularly organizes meetups between all the three tiers to keep the members engaged.
 
 The platform also ends up creating a lot of content due to their activities, which is published in their online content website. This site comprises live broadcasting of jam sessions, jam videos, podcasts, articles, audio content, and also video web series.
 
 Apart from collaborations, the app will act as an aggregator of professional music services, a feature that the creators will launch in the next version.
 
 
