VISAKHAPATNAM: Like Hyderabad in Telangana, the much hyped   seems to be vulnerable to  .

 Health experts attribute it to various reasons. The main cause, according to them, is that Vizag experiences migration of people from different parts of the country as well as other countries through various modes of transport. The migration happens for different reasons including for work, business and during festivals like Sankranti, Dasara, Ganesh Chaturthi and summer vacations. This apart, tourists also come from different places, businessmen also come to the city for various business purposes due to the presence of vast industrial units like Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, HPCL among others besides the Eastern Naval Command.
 
 This migration can be examplified by the fact that nearly 60 per cent of the beds of various corporate hospitals in particular are filled with patients from neighbouring districts and states like Odisha and Chhattisgarh for medical treatment for various ill health problems. Vizag also is vulnerable to swine flu because its climate sees high moisture content in the atmosphere.
 
 Dr L Kalyan Prasad, Visakhapatnam district nodal officer for swine flu from the department of medical and health, admitted that the city is most vulnerable due to the migration of different people from different places besides the occupancy of various corporate hospitals with patients with different areas. “If one person is affected by the virus, he or she would affect others even when the virus is in a dormant state in the patient,” he added.
 
 “Moreover, people come to the city and its surrounding areas for festivals like Sankranti recently this year. The climatic conditions of the city particularly in the winter is suitable for the spread of the disease. The moisture content in the air also helps the virus to survive,” Kalyan Prasad explained.
 
 Dr G  , superintendent for Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, said their hospital has kept ready nearly 10 special beds to handle swine flu cases. “This year, we have not received any cases so far, but in 2015, nearly 360 suspected cases were screened at the hospital. Of them, 66 cases were admitted at the hospital and of them, 11 turned out to be positive. The positive cases were given the requisite treatment and sent back to home and there were no deaths,” he said.
 
 “The disease is curable and if a patient responds to medical treatment within 48 hours, there will be no problem. However, the treatment would depend on the condition of the patient’s immunity power and factors like whether he or she is diabetic,” Dr Sambasiva Rao said.
 
 
