NAGPUR: Civic agency Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) could have saved crores of taxpayers’ money had it taken a leaf out of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) book and not paid the entire amount to the   agency  . The agency, which was awarded the contract of planting 1.60 lakh trees at the cost of Rs18.68 crore, left the   red-faced due to the abysmally poor survival rate of saplings.

 BVG had done similarly shoddy work for NMC but, in this case, the civic body had stopped the payments after detecting poor survival rate of saplings. TOI learnt that in 2014-15, NMC had given the agency a work order to plant 13,000 saplings. As per the agreement between the two, plantations were to be carried out all over the city at the cost of Rs1.59 crores.
 
 “It was decided that payment would be done stage-wise. Initially, we paid 30% of the total amount. We were supposed to pay 15% each after the 6th and 9th months. After successful completion of the target, NMC had to pay 40%,” NMC officials said.
 
 In the first phase, the agency planted around 8,200 saplings. However, during spot inspection, NMC staffers had found that only 40% of the saplings had survived. “When the concerned officials went on field to measure the saplings, height of only 2,650 plants were found to be satisfactory,” said officials.
 
 Not satisfied with the quality of the plantations, NMC paid only 90% of the cost for planting 2,650 saplings. Sources said that overall around Rs44 lakh were paid to BVG India. “We would have paid the entire amount to the agency had it done replantation of the withered saplings and planted the remaining to meet the target of 13,000 and ensured their survival,” a source said.
 
 However, when NMC asked the agency to do the same, apparently it went on a back-foot and did not approach it again. 
 
 In the NIT scam, BJP MLC   has pressed charges that BVG India had met only 35% of the plantation target but was paid the entire amount. The MLC had further alleged that the officials who did not have powers signed the plantation bills and payment to BVG was made on this basis. 
 
 Environmentalists demand that the agency should be immediately blacklisted. “When the agency was doing plantations, we had pointed out about the poor quality but no action was taken. Legal action should be taken against it,” said green activist Shrikant Deshpande.
 
 He added that rather than giving the work order to one agency, different ones should be hired for zone-wise plantations.
 
 TOI sent a mail to BVG India on Monday to which it did not send any reply.
 
