AURANGABAD: The   have arrested a man and detained two minors, in connection with the murder of a 20-year-old boy who had gone missing on January 9.

 The deceased has been identified as Ravindra Madane — a  . The main accused has been identified as 23-year-old Dattatray Jamkar, while the remaining two are 17-year-old.
 
 Beed superintendent of police G Sreedhar said, “The case began with police finding an abandoned car in the limits of Peth Beed police station on January 10. On tracing its owner, the police reached Pimpalner village, where the owner informed that his son runs a car on rent service and himself drives the car.”
 
 Suspecting foul play, the police asked the victim’s father Manohar to lodge a missing complaint so that they can investigate the case further. Accordingly, on the evening of January 10, a missing case was registered with the Pimpalgaon police station in the district.
 
 After the police began its probe, they found that the deceased was last spotted with some of his close friends. The friends were summoned to cooperate in the investigation.
 
 Additional superintendent of police   said, “The questioning of three of his friends was purely based on the last seen theory. After sustained questioning for consecutive days, the trio broke down and confessed to murdering the youth and burying his body at a place near the highway.”
 
 Soon, their confessional statements were recorded and on Saturday night a case of murder was registered at Pimpalner police station before arresting the accused.
 
 The officer said over a month ago, there was an argument between the deceased and the accused over some issue. The trio had then decided to teach Ravindra a lesson.
 
 The accused trio hatched a plan and called the deceased to meet them on January 9 on the pretext of renting his car for a marriage ceremony.
 
 “They told Ravindra that they want to go to Ahmednagar and on their way stopped at a restaurant to have food. The accused then made him stop the car for answering nature’s call and then strangulated him from behind using a rope. The body was then buried at a secluded place and his car was abandoned. A case of murder has been registered against the trio,” said the officer.
 
