Bengaluru: Cobweb ceilings, magic wands and a Platform 9 3/4 wall —   fans have a new hangout in town. One that offers both a visual and gastronomic treat. Welcome to Two Friends Cauldron, a cafe themed after the popular series by JK Rowling. 

 A brainchild of two corporate colleagues-turned- restaurateurs, the JP Nagar cafe encapsulates the wizarding world. Whether it’s the name or the Hogwarts-like decor, Sheeba Mushtaq and   have tried everything to bring Rowling’s books to life. When they quit their jobs last year, they knew they wanted to do something around food. After brainstorming, they decided on a Harry Potter-themed restaurant, as it would resonate with a large audience, said Pravitha.
 
 “We didn’t want to name it   or Platform 9 3/4 as it would give away the theme and we couldn’t have experimented in future (yes, we have more plans). That is why we called it Two friends Cauldron,” Sheeba said.
 
 Operational for a month, the cafe is already a draw among   (series’ fans) and others. “I like the menu; it reminds of the numerous spells used in the movies. I also love the wands displayed,” said  , 12, who visited the cafe with his friends.
 
 Sri Vidya, 27, who has deavoured all Harry Potter books, said it gives her a sense of nostalgia. “The restaurant comprises the representations of my favourite story of all times and I’m glad it is in Bengaluru.”
 
 Adorned with subtle references to the wizarding world, self-curated interiors and props — a Divination Stairwell-inspired staircase, missing wizard Photo Booth, Platform 9 3/4 wall, potions and elixirs — the cafe not only connects with Potterheads but also makes others curious. 
 
 However, the only ‘magic’ it offers is the exceptional menu, said Vidya, who has already begun to frequent the place. The ‘Marauder’s map’ menu has delicacies like Mrs Weesleys pizzas, Dumbledore’s sherbet, butter beer and chocolate frogs. Sheeba said: “We have played with words in the menu and ensure the taste is not compromised.” 
 
 Abhiram Kaushik, 27, said he drove all the way from Whitefield after he heard about the restaurant from his wife. “I loved sipping the butter beer and my wife ordered Expresso Petrones, which Harry uses against the dementors. It is an escape to the fantasy world, a refreshing change from our mundane lives,” he said.
 
 -Neha Jain & Sushmita B
 
 
