AHMEDABAD: Trees do a lot for us. Apart from improving our health, providing wood, and even cleaning up air by reducing particulate matter pollution (PM10, PM2.5), now common knowledge, trees reduce our carbon footprint too. Our vehicles, factories and travels only accentuate release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. 

  Two years ago, the state forest department and Gujarat Ecological Education and Research Foundation (GEER) initiated a study, ‘Carbon Stock Assessment of Selected Tree Species’ where researchers C N Pandey, Richa Pandey and   quantified how much greenhouse gas was being removed from our surroundings by various tree species that exist sparsely around us through a process called Carbon Sequestration.
 
 In Ahmedabad district alone, the amount of carbon that was sequestered in urban areas was 9.68 lakh tons. The number of trees of various girth sizes was around 3.36 crore in the Ahmedabad district. The study pointed out that the maximum amount of carbon was sequestered — almost 5.68 lakh tons — by 6.37 lakh trees of various species which had a girth size of 91cm to 200cm.
 
 Among various Gujarat districts, the maximum number of trees, according to the study, exists in Surat where 20.06 lakh tons of carbon has been sequestered. Interestingly, the minimum number of trees was reported from Narmada district where just 1.58 lakh tons of carbon has been sequestered. 
 
 When it comes to tree numbers, three districts — Narmada, Surendranagar and Porbandar — have less than 5 million trees in their non-forest, which is urban and suburban areas. Four districts — Dahod, Patan, Kheda, and Gandhinagar — are such which have more than 10 million but less than 15 million trees in their urban areas. 
 
 Interestingly, two districts, Mehsana and Surat, have more than 20 million trees in their urban areas.
 
 “Carbon sequestration refers to a long-term storage of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. Planting trees actually helps slows down accumulation of greenhouse gases, which are released by burning fossil fuels. Major contributors are vehicles, industries and even farm burning,” says a senior forest department official.
 
