When Ian Bradshaw cut right-arm pacer Alex Wharf for a boundary, the camera panned to Michael Vaughan. The England skipper was a picture of disbelief. In the span of a few deliveries, Vaughan's English side had gone from potential champions on their home turf - The Oval in London - to shocked bridesmaids.

 The 2004   final will always be remembered as the match that brought out the warrior spirit in Brian Lara's   side. They unexpectedly romped to the title with a two-wicket win over England with seven balls to spare. Two unlikely players - pacer Bradshaw and wicketkeeper Courtney Browne -proved game-changers that fall evening. It was their unbeaten 71-run partnership for the ninth wicket that steered West Indies home.
 
 It was a shard of glitter and glory for a Caribbean side fast fading into oblivion. They were not even a patch on the fierce, virtually unbeatable sides of the past, and were not even remotely considered favourites going into the final. Still, England had proved a happy hunting ground in the past in multi-team tournaments for West Indies -remember their historic 17-run win over Australia at Lord's in 1975 inaugural Prudential World Cup final, as well as success against the home side in the same tournament four years later. It proved so again in 2004.
 
 But the slide which had already bound the sport in the Caribbean in its vice-like tentacles has finally smothered the West Indies team. Come June 1, when the latest edition of the Champions Trophy kicks off in England, the West Indies will be conspicuous by their absence.
 
 It comes as a bit of a shock even though it has been known for almost two years now that the West Indies will not be on show in the tournament. It is hard to imagine a premier International Cricket Council (ICC) event without the West Indies.
 
 It is the first time since the inception of the Champions Trophy (a knockout tournament when launched in 1998) that West Indies will not feature in the 50-over tournament. It is also the first time the West Indies, one of only three teams to have won all three premier ICC events -the 50-over World Cup, the Champions Trophy and the T20 World Cup -will not feature in a mega limited-overs event.
 
 Putting the team's absence in perspective, former ace Kapil Dev was recently quoted as saying: “It's very hard to believe that the West Indies will not be in the tournament. When someone makes a rule, they don't think of things like whether this or that team will qualify. I, as a cricketer, lover of the game, think that the West Indies should be there all the time, but again I don't write the rules.”
 
 The West Indies can blame no one but themselves for the debacle. The top eight teams in the ICC rankings (in the period ending September 2015) made the cut for the tournament. The West Indies were ranked ninth (88 points), a mere two points behind eighth-placed Pakistan at the cut-off date.
 
 Back in 2004, when the West Indies were struggling to keep their glorious legacy intact, the Champions Trophy win was seen as a new beginning. But lessons haven't been learnt. Until recently, their top players - Chris Gayle, Dwayne Bravo, Sunil Narine, the suspended Andre Russell and Kieron Pollard - were not considered for selections for the One-Day International squad simply because they did not meet the eligibility criteria, which is mandatory participation in domestic limited-overs tournaments. This of course has been relaxed for the upcoming home series.
 
 The ICC, on its part, could have devised a better qualification system. Or better still, it could have made allowances, given that the West Indies are the world's T20 champions. Their participation would have been a good advertisement for the sport.
 
 The cut-off date for qualification is almost two years before the event proper, and puts a massive strain on teams, especially if they haven't played as many limited-overs matches during the specified period. For example, the West Indies may have had a good run had the proposed tri-series between Pakistan, West Indies and Zimbabwe gone through or if they had played and won the last of the matches during their five-match ODI series against India, which they abandoned following a pay dispute between the players and the WICB officials in 2014.
 
 As the top eight teams get ready to battle for the trophy, Windies will host rookies Afghanistan for a three-match ODI series and an equal number of T20 games. They have indeed hit a low. The only way from here is up, but of that too, there is little guarantee.
 
 
 
 
 West Indies have given fans some memorable moments in ICC events in England. TOI takes a look...
 
 
 
 
  Pakistan 266/7 (60 overs) lost to West Indies 267/9 (59.4 overs) by 1 wicket.
 
 In a Group B thriller, Clive Lloyd’s mighty West Indies team overcame Pakistan’s competitive total with two balls and a wicket to spare. Half-centuries from skipper Majid Khan (60), Mushtaq Mohammad (55) and Wasim Raja (58) put Pakistan in a strong position before Lloyd (53) and Deryck Murray (61 n.o) inspired their team to pull through.
 
 
  The Final: West Indies 291/8 (60 overs) beat Australia 274 (58.4 overs) by 17 runs.
 
 Clive Lloyd’s blistering knock of 102 from 85 balls - with 12 fours and 2 sixes to boot - helped the Windies to a total that proved to be too much for fellow finalists Australia. Despite skipper Ian Chappell’s fighting 62, Australia managed just 274 as West Indies lifted the inaugural limited-overs World Cup.
 
 
  West Indies 286/9 (60 overs) beat England 194 (51 overs) by 92 runs.
 
 Viv Richards slammed an unbeaten 138 while Collis King made 86 as the West Indies put Mike Brearley’s England to the sword in the title clash. Despite an encouraging start by the hosts, they fell victim to Joel Garner as the pacer scalped five wickets to hand his team their second consecutive World Cup. 
 
 
  South Africa 246/6 (50 overs) lost to West Indies 249/5 (48.5 overs) by 5 wickets
 
 Herschelle Gibbs cracked a 135-ball 101 to put South Africa in the driver’s seat. Heavy rain meant the Windies could play only 6 overs in their chase of 247 and they returned on the reserve day of their Group B clash to complete the job with Ramnaresh Sarwan (75) and Shivnarine Chanderpaul (51*) showing the way.
 
 
  The Final: England 217 (49.4 overs) lost to West Indies 218/8 (48.5 overs) by 2 wickets
 
 The West Indies limped across the finish line with two wickets and seven balls remaining thanks to some handy contributions by the tail-enders. After centurion Marcus Trescothick (101) guided England to a below-par total, the Windies top-order failed to click. While Shivnarine Chanderpaul (47) gave it a good go, it was Courtney Browne (35 n.o) and Ian Bradshaw (34 n.o) who settled the issue.
 
