Nagpur: The proposal to do away with   division by handing over two wildlife sanctuaries — Katepurna and Dnyanganga — to the territorial forest department under the garb of unified control of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) has come in for sharp criticism.

 As per NTCA guidelines, unified control doesn’t mean reorganization but control of buffer zone of a tiger reserve with field director. However, a proposal has been submitted to PCCF (wildlife) to recreate two wildlife divisions by combining MTR and its buffer area. Akot wildlife division is proposed to be merged with Gugamal division having headquarters at Chikhaldara.
 
 It is also proposed to attach Katepurna and Dnyanganga sanctuaries with Akola and Buldhana territorial divisions, respectively, by winding up Akola wildlife division.
 
 However, in a representation to PCCF (wildlife), a dozen individuals and NGOs working for wildlife conservation have opposed the proposal.
 
 Manish Jeswani of Akot-based Organization for Wildlife (OWL) said Melghat is coming up slowly by way of successful relocation, conviction in tiger poaching cases, habitat management, etc.
 
 Jeswani said the proposal to attach Katepurna (74sqkm) and Dnyangana (200sqkm) with territorial forest is absolutely impracticable and incompatible for many reasons. “One of the main objective itself was to regulate forest divisions adjoining tiger reserve as they are not incompatible with the needs of tiger conservation. So, attaching these sanctuaries with Akola division is against the objective of NTCA,” Jeswani said.
 
 Other sanctuaries like Tipeshwar, Umred-Karhandla, Painganga and GIB in Solapur are managed and controlled by wildlife divisions only. “So, if at all at any cost Akola and Buldhana territorial divisions are thought fit to manage these sanctuaries, then same analogy should be applied to other sanctuaries in Maharashtra as well and they should also be attached with the territorial division. It will set a wrong precedent,” said Amol Sawant of Satpuda Foundation, Akola.
 
 “The main reason Akola wildlife division is not performing is because the post of deputy conservator is vacant for long,” Jeswani said. He added that the solution to all problems is to fill the vacant post or attach these sanctuaries to Akot wildlife division.
 
 One of the main objectives of tiger conservation plan (TCP) is to ensure forestry operations of territorial forest divisions and those adjoining tiger reserves by mainstreaming wildlife concerns. So, emphasis was given on core and buffer which are major components of TCP.
 
 Honorary wildlife warden Devendra Telkar said another objection is that having headquarters of Akot division at Chikhaldara will make management of Ambabarva and Wan sanctuaries difficult.
 
 “Earlier, Dhargad range, which was in Gugamal, was attached with Akot considering several hardships faced by the staff as the headquarters was located in Paratwada. Now, shifting it again to Chikhaldara will invite more hardships,” said Sandeep Sarde of Aadhar Foundation.
 
 APCCF for wildlife (East) N Rambabu said the unified control proposal is with PCCF (wildlife). “It will be discussed threadbare before taking any decision,” he added.
 
 
