Amritsar:  , the widow of actor-turned-politician Vinod Khanna, would continue with the philanthropic work started by her late husband despite her not being chosen as the BJP candidate for the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat that had fallen vacant following her husband’s demise.

 The BJP has decided to field Rajput businessman-politician Swaran Salaria.
 
 Talking to TOI on Thursday, Kavita said there was no question of not coming to Gurdaspur constituency and she would continue to visit the area. “I have undertaken good work here. Politics is not the only platform from where we can do good. There are many other platforms,” she said.
 
 According to sources, Kavita had been lobbying to contest the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat and even been reportedly asked by the BJP high command to ‘be prepared.’ She said they had helped many people in different ways, including saving lives of many by extending medical help to them.
 
 Asked if she would want to contest in 2019 elections, Kavita said, “I have learnt one thing from Vinod and that is to live in the present moment. I don’t like to look into the future.”
 
 Reacting to Salaria’s selection as the BJP candidate, she said, “Whatever decision the party has taken, it is for the good. I have full faith in the Prime Minister, party president and the system of party, I support their decision.”
 
 Asked if she would stay in the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency and campaign for the BJP, Kavita said being Vinod’s wife, she had campaigned for him but she had never canvassed for anyone else. “Neither am I a senior leader in the party nor I have any position. I think Salaria’s family should come forward and campaign for him,” she said.
 
 Stating that she was just a BJP member and not any office-bearer, she said a lot of people were coming to meet her. “I tell everyone not to lose heart as whatever happens, happens for good. Many people are dismayed that I am not the candidate. All of them had high hopes but I believe that it has happened for good,” said Kavita.
 
 
