THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For the first time a   was successfully performed at the   in Thiruvananthapuram. The three year long process, the first such surgery in a government hospital in the state, was performed on a 41-year-old woman from Thiruvananthapuram who wanted to have her   as a male. 

 "It is a very difficult process to have a sex change from a female to male than from a male to female. Hence, the whole process took almost three years even though the various surgeries were performed in two or three stages," said Dr K Ajayakumar, head of the department of plastic surgery department, who led the team.
 
 The three major surgeries performed in different stages were the removal of breasts, the removal of uterus and vagina and then finally the implant of the male organs, including penis. "Of this, the most difficult surgery was implanting the male organ which took two days to compete. Since we cannot perform a 24-hour surgery at the medical college this was performed in two days," said Dr Ajayakumar.
 
 The surgery, which costs at least Rs 10 lakh in a private, was performed for less than Rs 3 lakh at the MCH. It was at the behest of the 41-year-old woman whose identity is not revealed that the sex change surgery was planned by the medical team of the hospital.
 
 "Even though she was a fully grown female, she had started showing male behavioural tendencies since her childhood. This led her parents to also think about a sex change surgery," said Dr Ajayakumar.
 
 The treatment began with a psychological counselling by a team of experts from the concerned department. Then the patient was presented before a medical board which gave the approval for the surgery. She was then injected with the male hormones in different stages. This hormone treatment lasted for almost a year.
 
 Following this, she was subjected to the surgeries. The artificial implant of human organs was done using the muscles taken from the thighs. "The patient can urinate now with the new male organ. Now in appearance the patient just looks like a male with all male organs. But the only difficult part for the patient is that he would not be able to have sexual intercourse with this organ," said the doctor.
 
 For this another surgery will have to be performed which is costly. The patient had approached several private hospitals first to have the sex change surgery. Since it was not affordable, she finally approached the MCH.
 
 
