CHANDIGARH: After making an effort to attract new industry to   last month, chief minister Captain   reached out to the existing industry and promised to put an end to red-tapism and incentivize them in the new industrial policy.

 “I know we keep talking about new industry, but it is the existing industry that has kept the flag flying through the difficult times. I met captains of industry in Mumbai recently and six of them gave their consent to come to the state,” he said.
 
 Amarinder said though he could not promise financial support in view of Punjab’s dire straits, he would ensure ease of doing business, backed by affordable power, as promised in the Congress poll manifesto.
 
 He added that his government was still in the process of ascertaining the extent of the financial mess prevailing in the state and would soon bring out a white paper to know the real status. Agriculture does not contribute that much to the economy of the state. Other states have advantages in terms of assets like power availability, he said.
 
  president Sunil Jakhar underlined the need to revive the existing industries by making the business environment more conducive to industrial development. Jakhar called for a more responsive approach, with faster decision-making, by the bureaucracy, and added that there was no place for red tapism in the current environment.
 
 Industrialists narrate tale of woes
 
 The ailing industry of Punjab narrated its tale of woes to Captain Amarinder Singh during an interactive session organized by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Tuesday.
 
 Pointing out that the next generation of industrialists cannot tolerate red tapism, Rakesh Goyal, an industrialist from Batala, rued, “My son, who has returned after spending some time abroad, is totally fed up with the system here. We are finding it virtually impossible to even expand our unit. The present government policies compel the existing industry to quit. If my son goes abroad, I too will shut shop and follow him.”
 
 Bhagwan Das, an industrialist from Bathinda, added that industrialists have suffered due to the dip in cotton cultivation in Malwa region over the past few years due to white fly. “The government should give a chance to sick units to revive without being charged,” he demanded.
 
 Mandi Gobindgarh-based industrialist Mohinder Gupta said once being hailed as ‘Asia’s Steel city’, Gobindgarh is now witnessing shutting down of industries. “At a time when the municipal corporation does not supply water and there is interrupted power, there are restrictions on the use of groundwater. In such a scenario, there is not enough water even for the labour,” he said.
 
 Observing that the previous industrial policy had remained only on paper, Jayant, an industrialist from Amritsar, said there was a need for proper implementation of the policy. “The last policy formulated in 2013 and revised in 2015 hadn’t done much for the industry on the ground,” he said.
 
 Most industrialists also demanded the state government to keep it word on providing power at a low tariff of Rs 5 soon. They also sought implementation of Patti-Makhu Rail Link that will bring Amritsar and Mumbai nearer by 240 kms via Rajasthan. Patti-Makhu Rail Link will create new connectivity between Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Malwa and Majha regions of Punjab. Moreover, this rail link will prove to be second defense line of security of India.
 
 “Tighten noose around truck unions”
 
 There was a widespread sentiment against truck unions among the industrialists. They pointed out that truck unions were creations of compulsions for small truck owners. The efficiency of collective operations makes small truck owners viable. But the unions tend to misuse their collective power for extortion and intimidation. This is a biggest deterrent in attracting investments in any location. They demanded that the state should regulate operations of unions to ensure that they operate as any other service providing company. The chief minister agreed that the truck unions, with their monopoly, were a big problem for the industry and assured early resolution.
 
 Box: PHD Chamber’s roadmap for new government:
 
 No market fee and rural tax should be levied on commodities other than wheat and paddy
 
 The state to initiate reforms in land acquisition
 
 Reduction in Collector rates of land
 
 Expeditious grant of approvals to set up an Industrial Parks
 
 For optimum utilization of dam based hydro capacity and its operation in an optimum manner, the gates of the balancing reservoirs downstream the dams (Nangal Dam of Bhakra and Shah Nahar barrage of Pong Dam) need to be made operational
 
 For the new industry, security deposit should be allowed in instalments
 
