RANCHI:  , which recently engineered the surrender of  , has taken to sports   in the district. Apart from its  , which focusses on aggressive anti-Maoist tactics, the team’s another unique operation - Banduk Chhodo   Khelo - is fast gaining popularity in Maoist-affected areas.

 As many as 92 team have been formed for the Lohardaga night volleyball league, members of which hail from remote villages and areas having Maoist strongholds like Kisko and Pesrar. While teams like Pesrar Pandyan and Kisko Tigers battle for the top honours in the one-month tournament, the district police is trying to make inroads into the remote spots to establish communication with the villagers.
 
 Lohardaga police superintendent Kartik S said, “This is the second edition of the volleyball tournament. In 2016, the league ended with the surrender of one Maoist. This year, we began the tournament after 12  , including Yadav, surrendered. This only shows the efficacy of holding such pro-people events.”
 
 He added, “The popularity of this volleyball league is growing with each passing year and the results are there for all to see. The event is giving youngsters a sporting activity to participate in and is also helping them take their minds off counterproductive issues.”
 
 The success and the popularity of the sport has also helped garner sponsorship from the private corporate sector, petrol pumps and showroom owners. “Each team represents one of the 10 police stations in Lohardaga. The victory of any team is a matter of pride for both policemen and villagers. The event has helped to bridge the communication gap between police forces and villagers, especially those living in Maoist-affected areas,” the SP said.
 
 “During the tournament, we paste posters of wanted Maoists and the reward money each one carries. The tournament will help us popularise the poster war against the rebels,” he added.
 
 Next year, police plans to give the volleyball tournament a formal stamp, with winners being inducted into the state team. “We have spoken to the state sports department and have sought their support in helping the best players get inducted into the district and state teams,” a senior police official said.
 
 While members of the winning team and runners-up are given geared bicycles, the man of the match is given a motorcycle.
 
 
