CHENNAI: It was a project that would have opened the portals of  , taking, via teleconferencing or video recording, classes by the institution's professors from seven colleges and four campuses to students in distant places and across borders.

 Instead, the taxpayer-funded   (VUTEP) has, through administration of singular ineptitude, become defunct and left cobwebbed with disuse 40-inch video screens and other communication gadgets that the venture was to utilise. The varsity has not offered a single programme under the scheme since its implementation in 2012, a year after its 2011inauguration.
 
 An audit report tabled at a university senate meeting on March 25 pointed out that the institution, to no avail, incurred expenses of around Rs5 crore on infrastructure to implement the scheme. The Rs5 crore was part of a syndicate-allocated Rs13.83 crore from a grant of Rs25 crore it received from the HRD ministry to finance the elearning project and a host of other programmes as part of the Centre's Common Minimum Programme (CMP) in higher education.
 
 Professors at the university say the inability to capitalise on the project was another example of its administration's failure to capitalise on the Centre's move to modernise the higher education system and a complete waste of public funds. The misspent Rs5 crore included expenses incurred on various devices, including large video screens, for 11colleges including Ambedkar Arts College, Vyasarpadi, Bharti Woman's College, Broadway , DG Vaishnav College, DB Jain College, Thoraipakkam, and  , Nandanam.
 
 The senate status report, sent to the state government in August 2015, noted that the university had not conducted any other since 2012.
 
 The ministry had planned to use the network to provide tele-education services to countries in Africa under a RsPan African Network' scheme.
 
 “On an inspection to one of the colleges, I saw that the studio including giant televisions were covered completely in cobwebs,“ senior syndicate member and journalism department HoD   said.
 
 
