PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Infrastructure specialists have raised concerns about the possibility of increased accidents once two-wheelers start to ply on the 12km Nigdi- Dapodi BRTS corridor from Monday. 

 The worry stems from the fact that there are several merge-ins and merge-outs from the national highway to service roads located close to the bus lanes.
 
 Nevertheless, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) officials have said that bollard placed in the bus lanes will ensure two-wheelers slow down. The bus lanes will be opened for two-wheeler traffic until bus operations begin in about three months.
 
 Opposing the plan, convener of Pedestrians First Prashant Inamdar said that the availability of such an exclusive wide lane for two-wheelers would lead to rash driving and increased possibility of accidents. Moreover two-wheeler traffic in the lane could clash with traffic from the highway and service lane at the many merging and de-merging points along the corridor. 
 
 “The situation will also be bad for pedestrians crossing the road. There appears to be no reasonable logic in implementing the ill-conceived, high-risk plan that will gravely impact road safety,” Inamdar said. 
 
 He also raised concerns about the inordinate delay in commissioning the   corridor. “This is why such ideas are popping up for the use of the glaringly vacant lane,” Inamdar said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, spokesperson of PCMC’s BRT cell Vijay Bhojane said, “Vehicles going in and out of the main highway onto the service road and vice versa are used to waiting for a while to avoid a head-on collision. There are bollards at the entry to the BRT lanes so the two-wheelers will have to slow down.”
 
 He added, “Two-wheelers that use the BRT lanes must not cross the maximum speed limit of 40km/hour in order to prevent accidents. Action will be taken against vehicles other than two-wheelers that try to use the BRT lanes. This is a temporary decision until we start the bus service.” 
 
 A few days ago, city   unit president Laxman Jagtap had urged civic chief Dinesh Waghmare to allow two-wheelers on bus lanes to ease the congestion.
 
 Meanwhile,   has written to the union urban development department, chief minister, and chairman,   (RTA) demanding that PCMC be directed to immediately suspend the ‘suicidal’ decision and initiate the BRT service in a time-bound manner.
 
 Jugal Rathi of PMP Pravasi Manch said, “PCMC has spent nearly Rs250 crore on widening the Pune-Mumbai highway to start the service. Ideally, cyclists and pedestrians must be allowed to use the BRT lanes until the service is launched.”
 
