Visitors at Minister of State for Home Affairs  's office in North Block have to go through the same security protocol like at any other minister’s office. But once you enter Rijiju's workplace, you see what sets it apart from any regular sarkaari office. Ever wondered what it’d be like working in an office that has heritage murals and John Keats' quotes lining the walls, or a cupola with a grand chandelier? Well, that's what the decor in Rijiju's office is like. We recently visited this grand office, and Rijiju told us about the cultural importance of the murals, something even he didn't know, till British architect Edwin  ' granddaughter recently visited his office.

 
  
  Kiren Rijiju at his office 
 
 
 
 Giving us a tour of his office, Rijiju's said that even he wasn't aware of its heritage when he first moved in in 2014. He says, "I don't know how such a beautiful office was allocated to me. I marvelled at these murals when I first came here, but I got to understand their meaning only when Lutyens' granddaughter came to India to see his work and visited my office as well. She told me about these murals and explained how each of them depict a chapter from history. It was then that I got to know that there's a lot of heritage and cultural value to these paintings." He adds, "The paintings were done by students of JJ School of Art, Mumbai, in 1935 and later improved upon."
 
 
  
  After Rijiju gave us a tour of his workplace and told us about the cultural importance of the things placed in it, he also showed us how he keeps a check on what goes around in the world through Google Earth, which has been installed on a big screen in his office
 
 
 
 So how does it feel to walk into an office like this every day? Rijiju says, "Earlier, when I used to come in, I used to be like 'Yes, I have a beautiful office,' but now, I can actually appreciate the beauty of these murals because I know of their cultural importance. Another unique thing about the office is its dome-like ceiling." Standing in the centre of his office, Rijiju explains, "If you will stand in the centre of this room, exactly under the dome, your words will echo. But take even one step back, and the echo goes away. It’s quite interesting."
 
 Rijiju also says that many foreign visitors have appreciated his office’s decor and told him that they "haven't seen an office like this."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
