The protests demanding   entered the third day at the VOC Park Grounds with a fresh bout of anger among the students after Prime Minister Narendra Modi refused to pass an ordinance on Thursday.

 A large number of protesting students walked to Avinashi Road from the grounds and blocked traffic in the afternoon as news of Modi’s refusal reached them. The traffic came to a total standstill on the arterial road. The students withdrew the road roko after police placated them, but continued the protest at the grounds.
 
 “What Modi has done is only a delaying tactic hoping that the protests would die down. But, we would not go back until there is a solution for the jallikattu issue,” said an angry student. As day passed, more and more college students thronged the grounds, which has become the epicentre of the jallikattu protests in Coimbatore district. Girls, women, elderly, some along with their children and family flocked to the grounds in large numbers to express solidarity with the protesting students.
 
 Tamil actor Mayilsamy and musician Hip Hop Thamizha, among others, participated in the protests. “This is for the first time that college students are protesting with the support of their parents and teachers. Hence, utmost care should be taken to ensure that there are no untoward incidents and the public is not affected,” Thamizha said.
 
 Mayilsamy said the repercussions of the mass protests have been felt across the country. “The protests are message for the Centre to take into considerations the views of all sections of the society before enacting any law in the future,” he said.
 
 Spiritual leader and founder of Isha Yoga Centre Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev has also extended support to the protests demanding jallikattu, saying centuries old cultural traditions should not be killed.
 
 On Thursday, several students gagged themselves with black clothes as a sign of protest at VOC Grounds. The protests intensified in other parts of the region as well, as groups of college students and youth hit the streets demanding jallikattu in Peelamedu, Podanur, Mettupalayam, VAlparai, Pollachi and Sulur. In Tirupur, school students also joined the protests, while advocates boycotted court proceedings in Coimbatore.
 
 
