BHOPAL: He missed his baggage at   and travelled 75 km of bumpy roads towards Hoshangabd only to witness protests from a   over his ‘beef eating’ tweets. But Bollywood actor Rishi Kapoor is unfazed. He says his visit to Madhya Pradesh was “nostalgic”.

 Kapoor was invited to Hoshangabad for inaugurating a private institute. He landed in Bhopal on Friday night and was peeved after he found his baggage missing. “He got angry after he failed to locate his checked-in baggage at the reclaim area of the terminal after disembarking from the flight. 
 
  carried out an intensive search operation, but to no avail,” said an officer. He was left stranded for another one hour over the issue. He moved on after flight operator tendered an apology and pacified him, claiming that they will get his baggage from Mumbai next morning. However, his problems weren’t over. Kapoor was displeased with condition of roads while travelling to Hoshangabad on Saturday. 
 
 Talking to media there, Kapoor appealed chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan to improve the condition of the Bhopal-Hoshangabad road. “Why this state lacks roads when highways and four-lane expressways are being developed across the country,” Kapoor told media. “I will request your (of Madhya Pradesh) chief minister to improve the roads in the state,” he said. “Even the traffic was terrible,” he complained. While heading to the institute he was surrounded by a group of right wing activists shouting ‘Rishi Kapoor wapas jao’. They waved black flags and also burnt his effigy. However, he was escorted safely to venue by police force. Later, Kapoor tweeted with his picture, “Nostalgia Narbada River, Hoshangabad. My maternal grandfather, Inspector General Police, Rai Bahadur Kartar Nath Malhotra, Jabalpur, MP-childhood,” Malhotra was IG of Rewa.
 
 Incidentally, MP government had in the past announced construction of a world-class auditorium in Rewa in the memory of legendary actor Raj Kapoor. Announcement was made by BJP minister Rajendra Shukla in July 2010 while inaugurating the two-day-long Vindhya Mahotsav in Rewa. Kapoor family had strong connection with MP. Raj Kapoor’s wife Krishna’s father Raisaheb Kartar Nath Malhotra was posted as Inspector General of the Rewa range at the time of her marriage with the Bollywood’s legendary actor.
 
