THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former vigilance director   had indirectly targeted former chief secretary   by saying that several officers, on the verge of retirement, were taking decisions in favour of the government. Thomas had sent a letter to Vijayanand, three days before the latter's retirement in which he stated that post-retirement postings of officers should be confirmed by the government only after their names were cleared by the vigilance director. The reason stated was that such matters had a 'potential for corruption'.

 Sources said the letter was sent to   who is in charge of chief minister's office, chief secretary designate   and a copy of the same was marked to Vijayanand on March 29. It is learnt that this letter ­ which questioned the powers of the government ­ was one of the reasons why the government removed Thomas from the post of vigilance director.
 
 When contacted, Vijayanand said that such powers for an agency has not been en visaged anywhere else. “This means that vigilance has to be given a veto power above the government. It is like saying that at the highest-level of government, coloured decisions will be taken. Government has its own prerogative to appoint a person if it feels that some expertise can be utilized. Though due caution must be exercised, it is government's decision as we are not living in a police state,“ he said, adding that he does not intend to take up any government posts.
 
 Regarding the petitions fi led against him in the vigilance court, Vijayanand said that the act of targeting the office of the chief secretary, using a person with no credibility, would undermine the government's position. “It does not mean that if an officer ­ at the level of chief secretary ­ does something wrong, heshe will be let off,“ he said.
 
 He added that the vigilance should function under a protocol just like the   and the Parliament. Vijayanand, who did not justify the strike by IAS officials against the vigilance department, said that the action by IAS officers and subsequent incidents did not create any kind of rift between him and the chief minister, like it was reported in the media.
 
 
