THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Accidents are unpredictable, but the reasons that lead to them are often not. The state has started taking remedial steps to bring down the number of accidents by identifying black spots in state roads and highways.

 The state government, on the direction of a Supreme Court committee on road safety, has identified 355 black spots in the state. As per the report prepared by   ( ), 200 black spots are on national highways while 110 black spots are on state highways.
 
 It is worth noting that both national highways and state highways together constitute only 9% of the total roads in the state. However, majority of accidents happen in these roads.
 
 In districtwise list, Ernakulam tops with 75 black spots. Malappuram follows with 71 black spots. Alappuzha, which earlier topped the list, is in third position with 57 black spots.
 
 Scientists at Natpac said that the list was prepared based on secondary data provided by police stations in the state. As per the guidelines of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH), an accident black spot is a road stretch of about 500 meter in length in which either 5 road accidents (involving fatalities or grievous injuries) took place during last three calendar years or 10 fatalities took place during last three calendar years.
 
 The black spots have been rearranged based on the severity of accidents. According to National Highway Au thority of India (NHAI), hazardous locations are evaluated based on Accidents Severity index (ASI). Hazardous spots with ASI more than threshold value (Average Severity + 1.5 x Standard Deviation) will be treated as black spots. For estimation of ASI, the weightage to fatal accidents will be assigned as seven and to grievous injury accident as three, based on NHAI criteria.
 
 Transport secretary KR Jyothilal said that a comprehensive report which includes measures to make roads safer, will be prepared incorporating suggestions from departments of health, police, PWD and road safety .
 
 Road safety commissioner S Anan thakrishnan said that the report on black spots has been sub mitted to the Supreme Court-appointed committee and state has started taking measures to rectify them. He said the identification and rectification of black spots will be a continuous process.
 
 Sources said that justice K S Radhakrishnan, chairman of SC committee on road safety , had given December 31 deadline for state to submit the list of black spots. The Natpac had to relay on secondary data provided by police as on November 11, 2016, as it would take around a year for primary data collection.
 
 In addition to this, Natpac submits accident investigation reports to road safety department every year, where a multidisciplinary team will visit an accident spot and recreate scenarios to find out what went wrong. “Due to limited resources, we could conduct only 15-20 such investigations,“ said a Natpac official.
 
