Neither the paucity of cash nor long ATM lines have been able to deter book lovers in the capital from visiting the 25th edition of the  , which began on Saturday. Over the weekend, lakhs of people visited the book fair, and not just e-wallet options, but a number of discounts and Rs 100-only stalls also attracted more readers. And oh, those fearing the demise of books at the hands of e-readers a few years ago need to stop worrying – sellers say their sales remain high, and even those with e-readers prefer physical books in many cases, or both versions of the same book!

 
 
 Stall owners at the nine-day long fair are trying to beat   with e-wallet options.  , who was manning a stall, told us, “We have set up tables with PoS machines and payment is not an issue now. We were expecting fewer people but the response is good – I haven’t even taken a break. Delhi mein book fair flop ho jata toh bahut sharm ki baat hoti.”
 Another seller, Sahil, told us that the Rs 2,000 note is actually a blessing, as instead of giving change for it, he has been pointing the customers towards more books! 
 “Like most book distributors, even we had doubts about sales this time, but there are positives too. Most people come with the Rs 2,000 note and ask us to give change, and we tell them about other good books by the same author they’re buying, or related subjects. Kitni baar Rs 300 ki book ki payment karne walon ne Rs 1,500 ki kitab kharid li,” Sahil said. 
 Book seller Krishna Dutt added, “If we go by the last three years, there isn’t any evident loss this year due to demonetization. Weekend par toh logon ki queue baahar tak thi. And people don’t need to have cash as they can pay by card or e-wallets.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Sanjeev, an employee at a stall, told us, “A reader visits a bookstore to select books but orders them online as they offer discounts. To beat that, we’ve also come up with discounts and readers are buying more.” Mohit Arya, a book seller, added, “People are struggling with cash crunch, but we’re giving options to pay. So most people are paying by card or e-wallets. Only 20% people are paying by cash.”
 Another seller, Vishal Jain, told us, “We were really apprehensive of setting up shop this time. Most people who would come to our stall would buy several books worth Rs 100, thinking, ‘100 ki toh hai’. Par abhi jab log paise bacha rahe hain toh e-wallet options se hi kaam ho paa raha hai.” 
 
 
 
 Over the years, e-books might have dented the sale of physical books on and off, but the book fair isn’t seeing a dip in sales on their account. A seller said, “There are readers who will buy the same book as an e-book, and a hard copy, one for travelling and one for home. It’s a double profit for us. When e-books were launched, we thought they’d hit sales, but over the years, we’ve realised that the hard copy can’t be replaced, and both have their buyers.”
 “Most of the people who buy our books tell us that they have read its online version but still want to own a hard copy. Plus we have people from all age groups visiting our stall, and not everyone reads e-books,” said Sameer Singh. 
 
 
 
 Another seller said, “Sales also depend on the collection. This year, the fair might not have done as well as previous years, but it is doing so because of the timing. I shouldn’t say this, but at a time when crime against women is the most discussed topic, and a fair comes with a focus on women writers, the publishers are bound to make a profit.”
 
 
