JAIPUR: The   anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested an assistant professor of   (RU) while accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 from a research scholar for clearing his outstanding fellowship bills. The accused also demanded expensive mobile phones and bottles of wine from his student.

 Mahipal Singh Yadav, who works at the Sanskrit department of the university, had demanded a bribe of Rs 50,000 from scholar Indra Kumar.
 
 Kumar, who had already paid Rs 10,000, was threatened by Yadav who asked him to pay the remaining Rs 40,000 by Wednesday or face the consequence.
 
 “After verifying Kumar's complaint, we laid a trap at Yadav's residential quarter. He threw the money into the bathroom when he spotted us. However, we recovered the cash and caught him,“ ACB additional SP   said.
 
 Indra Kumar told TOI that for the past several months his fellowship bills were being delayed by his research mentor and assistant professor  . “Sir (Yadav) told me to regularly pay him my entire stationery and house allowance, which is part of the fel lowship. Initially, when I refused to pay him, he threatened to stall my research,“ he said.
 
 Yadav accepted the money through his middleman and a class four employee  , who has also been arrested by the ACB. The assistant professor allegedly demanded expensive gifts from his students.
 
 The accused teacher seldom attended classes and forced senior students to prepare question papers for MA exams and check copies of undergraduate students.
 
 “He didn't have any understanding of Sanskrit. Whenever we asked him to explain the meaning of a verse, he would curtly refuse,“ Kumar said, adding that Yadav had asked him to bring a bottle of expensive wine.
 
 Additional SP Verma said that ACB had kept Yadav's phone under surveillance for the last six months and found that he had asked another student to gift him a phone of Rs 30,000.
 
 “We have booked both the accused under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Our teams have seized some important documents from his residential quarters,“ Verma said, adding that a probe was on to check how many people he had duped.
 
