NEW DELHI: Nearly two years after the process was initiated, the government on Wednesday cleared the sale of three India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) hotels - in Bhopal, Guwahati and Bharatpur - to state governments in what will be shown as part of the Centre's "strategic sale" programme. 

 The government will disinvest 51% stake in the joint ventures formed for Bhopal's Hotel Lake View and Brahmaputra Ashok in Guwahati. Hotel Bharatpur Ashok, which is managed by ITDC, is being returned to the Rajasthan government.
 
 In the new disinvestment policy, the Centre will lease or sub-lease hotels to state governments or return it to them after a fair valuation. The states then have the option to upgrade and operate the properties by roping in the private sector or to use it as per their requirements. "States have exercised their options accordingly, in each case going forward with the option best suited to their needs, in line with the overarching principle that it is not the business of Government to run or manage hotels," the statement said. 
 
  minister Arun Jaitley did not disclose the financial details of the transactions. The minister said   government may develop   as a guest house as there are many private hotels in the state capital.
 
 ITDC has sought shareholder approval to divest stake in other properties, including Jaipur Ashok, Lalitha Mahal Palace in Mysore, Patliputra Ashok in Patna and Bhubaneswar's Kalinga Ashok. 
 
 Soon after taking charge, the Narendra Modi government had decided to sell seven ITDC properties, barring Hotel Ashok and Samrat in the Capital. But the reluctance of the bureaucracy in the tourism ministry and ITDC had stalled the sale and it was only after the removal and retirement of some key personnel that the process got moving.
 
 Shares of ITDC closed at Rs 690 on BSE, up 2.4%. "The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by PM Narendra Modi has approved the initiation of the process of disinvestment of hotels/properties of the ITDC," an official statement said. 
 
 
