HYDERABAD: Roughly 48 hours after computers used by police in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh were reportedly compromised in the worldwide   attack, the Hyderabad police have begun revamping their computer network. 

 As part of its effort to protect its computer network, the city police have begun downloading the latest safety patch for its software. “Our computer network has a three-layer security, which is not easy to breach. It entails a firewall, kill-switch and anti-virus system. If there is any attack on our systems, we will hit the kill-switch and delete everything from our database, which has a back-up in place,” assistant commissioner of police ( ) cyber crime, KCS   said.
 
 Over the last two days, 19 computers belonging to the AP police had their hard-disk drives encrypted by a malware identified as Wannacry or Wannacrypt. According to cyber security experts, the hard disk of the infected system was encrypted from a remote location and to decrypt the system, the hackers demanded a ransom ranging from $300 to $600 in Bitcoins. 
 
 “This malware is spreading widely and primarily targets computers using older versions of Windows rather than   or iOS operating system. It attacks a primary target first and then spreads to other systems connected to the infected computer via local area network (LAN),” Altaf Halde, managing director Kaspersky Lab ( ), told TOI. 
 
 “We have seen that the malware spreads via e-mail. The hackers learn about victim’s profession through his browsing history and cache memory. Then, they send a mail indicating the receiver has won some award or has been called to attend a high-profile meet. When they download the attachment in the mail, their system is compromised,” the ACP said. 
 
 According to an advisory issued by the   (CERT-In), the malicious attachments come with file extensions including .lay6, .sqlite3, .sqlitedb, .accdb, .java and one of the most common one .docx. The CERT-In asked users to verify the sender and open only if it is from a known source. 
 
