KOLKATA: There could have been a sudden lapse of concentration on the part of the motorist, he could have made a last-moment attempt to swerve to avoid another vehicle while speeding or drowsiness could have led to the crash: these are the possibilities being lined up by the police investigating the late-night crash on Rashbehari Avenue last Saturday when model   was killed and   Vikram Chatterjee injured. 

 “Circumstantial and technical evidence show one from the above options could be a possible reason for the collision,” said the police, indicating they were not ruling out the possibility of Vikram being distracted during a conversation just before the crash. The police said they were yet to question Vikram.
 
 At hospital, Vikram reportedly recovered well till Wednesday morning after which he again complained of certain uneasiness. “Vikram has minor injuries on his head, shoulder and hips. While he received stitches for the head injury, the other wounds are not serious,” said a hospital official, adding the actor now complained of nausea. An MRI was carried out on Wednesday, but it revealed nothing major. “A CT scan of his shoulder region has been done and the report is yet to come. Nothing major is feared. If he continues to be stable, he can be released by the end of the week,” said a Ruby General Hospital spokesperson. The police said the doctors were yet to contact them on Vikram’s possible discharge date. 
 
 The cops spent Wednesday talking to the autopsy surgeon, who carried out Sonika’s post-mortem and met forensic experts for the car mechanical test report. “We spoke to Vikram hours after the  . He was injured and under severe trauma and not in a position to talk. But now that he is recovering, we will have to question him at length. If we have the evidence, we can easily point out the discrepancy, if any, in his statements. We are also checking his call records to see if he was on phone while driving,” said a Lalbazar officer.
 
 All the witness’ statements, who spoke about the speeding car, will be recorded before a magistrate. “We are told the car’s brake did not work as the sedan spun out of control. Once the statements collaborate our findings, we can then look in to the culpability angle,” the police added.
 
