NEW DELHI: A short span of elevated road over Ring Railway tracks near the fruit market in Lodhi Colony has further delayed the second phase of the   project. Started in February 2013, the project was initially expected to be completed in two years. It now appears that it will take another three   for it to be thrown open to the public.

 “We have finally received clearance from the railways for construction of piers and pier caps along the track. Work is nearing end and within three months, we should be   with the structure,” a PWD official told TOI.
 
 The second phase is an extension of the Barapullah elevated road from   to JLN Stadium. At an approximate cost of Rs 384 crore, it will take the stretch from JLN Stadium to INA and on to Aurobindo Marg, with an extension provided at   to access the elevated road in the direction of Sarai Kale Khan. 
 
 Once Phase-III is ready, which should take up to 2018, Barapullah will provide direct connectivity from   to Aurobindo Marg, reducing travel time from the existing 1-1.5 hours to about 15 minutes.
 
 “There have been various reasons for delays, but permission from railways took the longest time,” claimed a PWD official. According to the department, railways initially did not allow PWD to create any pier on its stretch of land and asked for a long span of road over the railway line. “By the time the drawings were finalised and submitted, a new set of officials had taken charge, who said that such a long span could not be allowed. This wasted six months of work put into designing the span and we had to start afresh,” said the official.
 
 Sources said there were other factors too behind the delay. This included a stop on construction work in Delhi for about 10 days because of a particularly severe bout of air pollution in November last year. Also, PWD was caught in a legal tangle that required it to remove all machinery from the construction site next to the drain for 3-4 months every year. “The Barapullah drain is prone to flooding. To avoid waterlogging, we are required to move our machinery away from the drain for 3-4 months every year,” said another official.
 
