DEHRADUN: Dehradun police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested three con men from Kurukshetra in Haryana, who had allegedly duped a city-based jeweller of 3kg gold in the last week of April.
 
  The accused have been identified as Gurdeep Singh, Sahab Singh, both residents of Kurukshetra in Haryana, and Gurjant Singh, a resident of Patiala in  .
  
  In a complaint with the Nehru Colony police station on April 26, jeweller Sachin Rastogi stated that three unidentified men duped him of 3kg gold and handed over him a bag filled with bundles of white paper, registers and copies instead of promised Rs 1.5 crore.
  
  Dehradun senior superintendent of police ( ) Nivedita Kukreti said, “Rastogi further stated that he got in contact with the accused through his friends   and Arun Saini, who asked him to arrange 5 kg gold for them and he would pay higher prices for gold. Trusting his friends, he arranged 3kg gold to earn high profit.”
  
  As the deal was made through people known to him, the jeweller met the accused at Ajabpur Chowk on April 26, and had been told by them to sit in their car bearing registration number of Haryana.
  
  Kukreti further said, “The jeweller handed over 3kg gold to them in presence of his friends Manjit Singh and Arun Saini, and was received a bag containing Rs1.5crore in return. He even opened the bag in the car to check the money, and was satisfied to see currency notes of Rs 2,000.”
  
  However, upon returning to his shop, Rastogi was shocked to find that Rs 2,000 notes were spread on the top to deceive him, and the whole bag was filled with copies, registers and bundles of white papers.
  
  He immediately lodged a complaint with police, and a case was registered under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
  
  A team joint team of special operation group (SOG) and Nehru Colony police pressed into service to nab the culprits. On the basis of information divulged by the victim and his friends, the team launched surveillance and arrested the accused on Monday night from Kurukshetra.
  
  Police seized 1.6kg gold, 16 bundles of white papers and 12 registers from their possession and impounded the car used in the crime. “They are notorious criminals and there are number of cases registered against them in Haryana and Punjab,” said a senior police official.
