Kolkata: In a relief for the detective department in the   case in which Trinamool leader Md Sohrab’s son Sambia Sohrab is the main accused, Calcutta high court on Tuesday set aside the order of the lower court that had earlier discharged three other accused. Justice Joymalya Bagchi ordered that proceedings should be started against three of the accused — Md Sohrab and Sambia’s friends identified as Shahnawaz Khan alias Sanu and Noor Alam alias Johnie — on charge of harbouring the prime accused (IPC 212).

 The lower court had ordered their discharge earlier after it failed to find enough evidence against them under IPC 201 and 212. The homicide squad of detective department said they were happy with the the high court order.
 
 On Tuesday, public prosecutor Saswatagopal Mukherjee argued that material found in investigation is enough to slap both charges against the three accused. He also argued that it was “bad in the eye of law” that they have been discharged despite the evidence against them. Defence lawyer Debasish Roy said trial court had gone through all evidence before discharging them. Hence, he argued, there was no illegality in the order. 
 
 After hearing both sides, Justice Bagchi said after considering the case diary of the three accused, it seemed a case can be made out against the three under IPC 212. He said that if further investigation leads to more evidence, section 201 can be added.
 
 The homicide squad, which was responsible for the probe in to the death of IAF corporal Abhimanyu Gaud, had moved high court last month after Bankshall second fast track court judge Sankar Mani Tripathi allowed murder charges to be framed against main accused Sambia Sohrab, but held that police lacked enough evidence to frame charges against three others. Police had brought murder charge against Sambia and charged others with harbouring Sambia.
 
 “At least two of them were together before the accident and all three moved together at different places in Bengal and neighbouring states after the accident. This shows Md Sohrab was aware about his son’s crime. Add to it the messages and call details and we were confident this deserves to get a trial in a court of law. We also have statements of various people who have seen the three travel together outside the state. All these were submitted to high court as evidence,” said a source.
 
 On January 13 last year, Sambia had allegedly driven his Audi Q7 and dashed corporal Gaud after breaching several security barricades on red Road that was closed to traffic for a Republic Day parade rehearsal. If convicted, Sambia can be sentenced to death or jailed for life.
 
 
