 has been getting wide-spread support from social media since the act and several noted personalities from the film and cultural world have joined him in his protest. Here's what they say....

 On Wednesday, actor   made news when he staged a very innovative one-man protest at Kasaragod. Wearing just a lungi, he boarded a bus asking to be taken to Pakistan or America. Later, he stripped down to reveal the American flag he was wearing under. Alencier was apparently fighting a lone battle against the forces who have asked director   to leave India.
 
  
 
 
 
 'As an actor, my medium of expression is acting. I have been observing the changes happening in our country of late and I find hidden fascism everywhere. When I heard the comment passed by the leaders of the ruling party at the Centre against Kamal, I felt that it's time to react. Nobody has the right to take away one's human rights and the freedom of expression in the name of religion or region. It's also a sign that we are moving towards an autocratic governance. I held my protest in the main bus stand of Kasaragod, where the Centre loyalists are strong. I am glad that I was able to make my audience at least think about the regressive ideas being instilled in them.'
 
  
 
 
 
 Across the world, fascists have always been scared of artistes, writers and filmmakers. Because beneath their art is a hidden ideology. That is precisely why poet Pablo Neruda was targeted by rulers in his own country and that is now happening in our country too. If we remain silent, it will work in favour of the fascists.
 
 Art has the capacity to influence humanity and the fascists here are trying to mitigate its power. The same is manifested in the form of attacks against MT Vasudevan Nair and Kamal.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I think we have been a society which has always used its freedom to speak and express in a very responsible manner. However, of late, we have somehow started labelling people based on the opinions they air with regard to specific instances. This is highly dangerous. Tagging   as belonging to a right-wing just because he wrote positively about demonetisation in his blog or calling Kamal a Muslim extremist because he supported MT Vasudevan Nair's thoughts aren't a good sign at all. If this prevails, we will turn out to be an autocratic society. India is always known for its pluralistic society and our tolerance is our beauty. We have to make it sustain.
 
 
 
 
 
 When did Kamal, one of the veteran filmmakers in Kerala become known as Kamaluddin? Recently, isn't it? Why is it so? I strongly feel that we should not treat the matter as trivial as it is eventually making our society an autocratic one. It is clearly being done by a particular political party, which is struggling hard to find its space in this State. Let's not act blind. There is an aggressive political situation brewing in here. Whoever reacts is being branded as an activist, extremist or a traitor. Kerala wasn't ever like that but I see it slowly turning out to be an intolerant society. 
 
