RANCHI:   (JMM) is likely to ride on the sympathy wave to retain the   in the by-election on April 9. 

 The tribal party on Friday zeroed in on   and  , two wives of the deceased  , after the two separately met the party's working president   and staked claim to the candidature for the election. 
 
 The wives of Murmu, party sources said, arrived in Ranchi on Friday evening and were in "tears" as they demanded the tickets, giving a new turn to the race for the Littipara seat in JMM bastion Santhal Pargana. A final decision has been left pending with JMM president Shibu Soren, sources added. 
 
 "The party is likely to announce its candidate for Littipara assembly seat on Saturday. The final decision is to be taken by Guruji. Since he is in New Delhi for the Parliament session, we have conveyed the whole scenario to him over call this evening," JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told TOI. 
 
 The party leadership's decision to field one of Murmu's spouses has put to end chances of the youngest Soren scion Basant's candidature. A section of JMM was rooting for Basant along with party workers of Littipara and was seeing the region as his launch-pad to politics after his defeat in last year's Rajya Sabha election. 
 
 The decision to field one of Murmu's wives comes as JMM takes its lesson from last year's assembly bypolls in Godda and Panki. Amit Mandal, son of BJP legislator Raghunandan Mandal, emerged victorious with a 35,000 vote margin. In Panki, Congress candidate Devendra Singh retained his father Videsh Singh's seat by nearly 57,000 vote margin. "The previous polls clearly mandate that no other formula will work," another JMM leader said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the JMM on Friday wrote to chief election commissioner in New Delhi and stressed on the use of voter verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) along with electronic voting machines (EVMs) in all booths of Littipara assembly seat to "prevent any foul play after the BJP transferred a senior police officer and two development officers in three blocks to influence the outcome of the poll results."
 
