New Delhi: Projects up to Rs 5 crore will be expedited in north and south corporations as the commissioners of both have assumed new financial powers that don’t need standing committee or house approval. 

 A large number of developmental works such as relaying of roads, addition of infrastructure in schools, hiring of security agencies for municipal properties and construction of boundary walls have been stuck for years. Subsequent to the new powers, in north corporation alone, it is expected that over 80% of pending works would be cleared. Among these include Naini Lak rejuvenation. But the new powers would also make municipal commissioners and not councillors accountable. 
 
 Earlier, any proposal had to get standing committee nod if the cost exceeded Rs 25 lakh before a tender could be floated. “It took several months for the process to get over as the files moved from one body to another. Now, the commissioner can approve projects costing between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 5 crore,” an official said. 
 
 The step to enhance the financial powers of municipal commissioners was taken in 2014 by the Union development ministry by amending the Delhi Municipal Act, 2011. But only the east corporation had implemented it. Senior corporation officials said this was because the politicians resisted it. In fact, even the east corporation’s standing committee had passed a resolution against it. “As a result, the departments ended up wasting months and sometimes even a year in getting approval,” the official added. 
 
 The Naini Lake project would be an immediate beneficiary as its project cost is estimated to be around Rs 1.5 crore. There was a tussle over it between the corporation and Delhi government. In January, the plan got a boost after Union culture and tourism minister Mahesh Sharma and Union science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan visited the lake. 
 
 With the tourism ministry promising monetary assistance, the north corporation proceeded with the plan. Sources say that the municipal commissioner has already given an in-principle nod. 
 
 
