HYDERABAD: Once the abode of Hy derabadi nobility and aristocracy, the sprawling and ornate deodhis of the city have all but disappeared.

 The deodhis are the Dakhni equivalent of the havelis of the north. Those who are familiar with Hyderabad and miliar with Hyderabad its culture say that once there were around 200 such structures in the city. With the fall of the   and the loss of power loss of power that ensued, only a handful are surviving. And those that are left are in are left are in a deplorable condi deplorable condition, courtesy encroachments, lack of funds by those who are in possession and unwillingness of successive governments to accord them the place that they deserve in the state's tangible  .
 
 The   is a prime example of neglect which resulted in its destruction. Only the kamaan, or gate, survives.  , who authored `Deodis of Hyderabad: A Lost Heritage', defines the structures as `homes of lords' and records that Diwan Deodhi was the `most celebrated deodi in Hyderabad'. It was home, the author writes, to six people who served as diwans or PMs to the Asaf Jahi rulers. The Diwan Deodhi kamaan is now inhab ited by small luggage traders, its façade is defiled by signage.
 
 Heritage expert Sajjad Shahid points out that deodhis were a microcosm of Hyderabad. “The deodhi was not just the house. It had the office of the person of repute who resided there. It also had the houses of his dependents and retainers. It was on account of these that several neighbourhoods developed. The deodhis were smaller seats of power,“ he says.
 
 Most deodhis had their own naqqar khanas ­ where kettle drums were placed and played ­ and their own naubat khanas (naubat is a shehnai like instrument). It also had a separate bawarchi khana or kitchen where the khansama used to cook meals.
 
 “Some of the deodhis had Greco-Roman architecture.This happened when the British Residency was constructed. The influence spread among the nobility ,“ he says.
 
 The Iqbal-ud-Dowla deodhi near   is a structure which could share the fate of Diwan Deodhi. In disuse and encroached, it cries for attention. According to Faiz Khan, a member of the Paigah family, the building was constructed by Sir Vicar-ul-Umra, who was the fifth ameer of the Paigah family. “One of the posts held by Sir Vicar-ul-Umra was that of the Prime Minister of the sixth Nizam Mir Mahbub Ali Khan. The ownership is still with the family and it was given to the court of wards for protection. The problem is that nobody is taking care of it,“ Khan says.
 
 Crumbling, the Khurshid Jah deodhi near Hussaini Alam, with sprawling grounds, is another example of a structure in neglect.
 
