PANAJI: Back in 2005, the   Action Group ( ) converted the Latin quarters at  ,  , into a venue of an art festival. In the wake of this exposure, this heritage conservation area went on to feature as the backdrop in many advertisements and movies and the flow of tourists that followed helped some residents maintain their heritage houses.

 After a period of lying low, the GHAG is back in action - its eyes now set on conserving Goa’s intangible heritage, including its language. The organisation will soon launch accounts on social media platforms, where Goans will be able to use the hashtag ‘GoaHeritage’ to share anything from a fading local fruit, vegetable or cereal, an almost extinct art or craft form or a festival unique to a Goan village.
 
 “The entire focus has been on built or natural heritage so far. But, other than galvanising GHAG members and revitalising the group, we now want to focus on our intangible heritage like our agrarian practices or traditional vocations. We want to highlight on ‘grow local, buy local and eat local.’ For instance, the local variety of rice is far more healthy and by buying it you can help the local farmer continue growing it,” said the new GHAG honorary secretary Raya  .
 
 Shankhwalker said that a social media presence will help promote the idea of preservation of heritage among the younger generation, who will be the torchbearers of the conservation mission in the future.
 
 GHAG also wants to work towards convincing the government to draw a comprehensive heritage list and guidelines for heritage conservation. “At present, the focus is only on a small number of historical buildings and a few heritage conservation zones that were declared as early as the 1970s,” said Shankhwalker.
 
 GHAG believes that Goa has a vast built-up heritage, stretching far beyond the currently listed structures, which needs to be assigned grades based on their significance, rather than ignored altogether, like the rapidly vanishing heritage houses in Panaji.
 
 “In the absence of such guidelines, routinely buildings are being demolished and changes are taking place to our historic temples and churches. In Europe, for instance, the core of the heritage zone is retained and development takes place around it, which model can be adopted in case of Panaji. In India, demolition of heritage structures is seen as an easy way of carrying out development. In India, conservation is seen as anti-development, which need not be the case,” said Shankhwalker, and added that the manner in which revenue generating businesses grew within the precincts at Fontainhas, even helping conserve the nature of the houses, is an example that heritage need not be seen as opposed to development and commerce.
 
