PUNE: They were the stuff that the media would refer to, in a rather cliched way, as “holding the fortunes” of candidates contesting elections. Square in shape, with a narrow slot on top, ballot boxes held centrestage during polls and were heavily guarded till the counting of votes.

 As the city gears up for municipal elections on February 21, ballot boxes remain only a memory, having been phased out with the coming of electronic voting machines (EVMs). The transition to EVMs in the city was complete by 2004 and the top-security ballot boxes have ironically found a resting place in an abandoned British-era sub-jail near the “mamlatdar kacheri”, a revenue department office at  .
 
 Some of the 2,000-odd boxes which have been kept in the open at the sub-jail are broken, while others have rusted. Those kept in a few rooms in the sub-jail are still in good condition. Local revenue authorities said the boxes were shifted here from the   foodgrains godown in 2002. 
 
 The sub-jail, constructed by the British in 1830, was witness to many events recorded during the Indian freedom struggle. City-based history scholar   said that   was among the first revolutionaries to be captured by the British and lodged in the sub-jail. He was hanged from a tree located in front of the prison in 1832.
 
 After the sub-jail stopped housing prisoners in 1990, the revenue department moved in and started offices in a few cells.
 
 A few years ago, the city police had requested the district collectorate to hand over the sub-jail to them so that they could use the cells as lock-ups as many police station did not have these facilities. However, nothing emerged of the request.
 
 Deputy inspector general of police (prisons) C H Wakade told TOI that the state once had 172 sub-jails, one in each taluka. “Only 100 of these sub-jails are functioning now; the others have been shut for various reasons. Today, the state prisons department mans only seven sub-jails in the state, while the remaining are looked after by the revenue department. However, the department provides grants for the upkeep of the sub-jails,” he said.
 
 The sub-jails, which have a separate jail manual, were used to lodge undertrials facing criminal charges. The undertrials would be shifted to the district or central prisons once convicted. Sometimes, convicts with minor punishment ranging from seven days to a month would also be kept in the sub-jails.
 
 
