NEW DELHI: A report on the browsing history of Najeeb’s laptop received by Delhi Police from Google and YouTube has revealed that in the months preceding his disappearance,   had been looking for information on   (IS) — ideology, executions and network. His Google searches included things like ways to join  . Highly-placed sources claimed that most of the videos he watched on YouTube were also related to the Islamic State. These details, which have opened another line of investigations, have been submitted in the Delhi high court.

 Delhi Police has claimed that Najeeb was watching a video of the speech of an IS leader on the night of October 14, just before he had a scuffle with ABVP members when they knocked on his door. He went missing the next morning before being caught on   boarding an autorickshaw.
 
 Desperate to get a breakthrough in the case, the cops are now also exploring – with the help of a counter-intelligence agency – the possibility of him getting radicalised and being lured away via Nepal. Posters with Najeeb’s photograph have been put up in several areas of Nepal that are close to UP. 
 
 The case has seen many twists and turns in the past four-and-a-half months. The first lead that cops pursued was when they found that he was on medication for obsessive compulsive disorder from 2012. He was prescribed Flunil (20mg) and Zolfresh (5mg) on August 27. The first is used to treat depression and OCD while the latter is used to induce sleep.
 
 On September 9, he was prescribed Lonazep that's used to treat fits, panic attacks and agoraphobia (fear of public places). Police also found Pari 10, an anti-depressant, and another medicine from Ahmed's room, said sources.
 
 The most curious twist came in mid-January when the family received a ransom call of Rs 20 lakh. The cops arrested the caller. It turned out that he was only trying to make some money. When Najeeb’s email was accessed last week, they landed up at his house, tracking the IP address, and found his maternal uncle was using his account.
 
 The police have been visiting places that Najeeb had looked up online. One was Manipur but sleuths found that he had a classmate from there.
 
 The police have also been probing if Najeeb took shelter at some shrine as his mother said he was religious since childhood. Cops have visited over 150 mosques and madrasas in Agra, Badaun and other places in western UP, and Ajmer.
 
 In December, more than 600 Delhi Police personnel, assisted by sniffer dogs, had scanned the inhabited and forested areas of the sprawling JNU campus to search for clues. Najeeb's laptop was sent for forensic examination. A reward of Rs 10 lakh has been announced by the police for any information about him.
 
 Najeeb’s mother, Fatima Nafees, has expressed dissatisfaction with the police’s probe. The Delhi HC has also been pulling up the cops for being unable to track him down.
 
