Visakhapatnam: North coast AP has witnessed drastic changes in cropping pattern in the last two decades and the manner in which it is being compensated, said a study by researchers from AU department of environmental sciences. 

 Working on a project concerning   and its impact on agricultural productivity in north coastal AP over a period of 20 years, the researchers, who did not wish to be named, noticed that the region was using excessive ground water and encroaching on forest land for agriculture which could lead to a disaster in ecological terms. 
 
 “ On an average, temperatures have shot up by 2 degrees in all of north coastal AP as a result of deforestation and excessive carbon emissions. Carbon dioxide emissions are roughly 22.5 million tonnes annually,” said researchers. They said there was a change in cropping patterns, where a major shift has been witnessed from sugarcane production and foodgrains to short-term timber.
 
 Though paddy production has gone up in Srikakulam district, it has decreased rapidly in Vizag and Vizianagaram district. Despite encroachment on forest land in the three districts, the area of acreage being sown for kharif stood at 5 lakh acres (in 2015), which corresponded with the area under cultivation in 1990.
 
 “It is not just paddy that is being effected but all food crops, including millets, green grams, black grams and horse grams. All this despite new irrigation schemes,” said a researcher. 
 
 The number of borewells in the agricultural areas of these three districts have gone up from 2,000 to 36,000 in 20 years till 2015, despite existing small irrigation projects. 
 
 “ Despite increase in borewells, the area under agriculture is decreasing rapidly. Over 200,000 acres of prime agriculture land has now been converted into short term timber plantation area,” said a researcher. 
 
 They said if the same trend as observed from 2005 were to be witnessed, it could result in abandonment of 25% of the existing agricultural land in the region by the end of this decade hugely impacting food productivity in the region. They said there has been a sharp rise in vector-borne diseases over the last 20 years and the number of cases have jumped from 40,000 to over 100,000.
 
 
