NEW DELHI: The problems in the municipal   of   are as complicated as the varied socio-economic contours of the area. From the bustling Lajpat Nagar market and the newspaper boulevard of Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg to places of veneration like Nizamuddin and the jhuggis of Indira Gandhi Camp, this sprawling assembly constituency poses a unique set of civic challenges.

 After a massive reshuffle, the existing wards of Bhogal, Lajpat Nagar, Nizamuddin and Daryaganj have been trimmed to Lajpat Nagar, Daryaganj and the newly created Sidhartha Nagar. The Bhogal ward has ceased to exist, but sitting councillor Darshana of Congress is not too worried. “I will move to Sidhartha Nagar. My only regret is being unable to have the multilevel   project that I started thrown open for public use,” she said.
 
 While parking is a big problem in the wards, there are other headaches that will test those elected to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Bhogal has seen a rapid rise in population since the last elections in 2012, but urbanised villages such as Sarai Kale Khan and Nagli Razapur are also witnessing the breakdown of overstressed system. 
 
 Shamshad Hussain, who runs a shop near the Nizamuddin railway station, briefly removed the handkerchief from his mouth to say, “The state of the roads here is such that we eat dust every minute of the day. It was the same before the 2012 elections and it will be same after this year too.” 
 
 Across the railway station lies Nizamuddin basti, where the dargah of Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya attracts pilgrims by the thousands. There is nothing holy about the area though, and the stink of uncollected garbage hangs heavy over the narrow, encroached lanes. “MCD was doing some work, but things changed a little, especially on sanitation, only when the Agha Khan Trust began the urban renewal of this historic basti,” said Aqil Ahmed, secretary of Ghalib Academy located near the mausoleum. “It is astonishing that in a place of pilgrimage like this, there are no public lavatories or parking lots.” 
 
 Farhad Suri, leader of the opposition in SDMC, and councillor from the old Nizamuddin ward, claimed the agreement with Agha Khan Trust was signed during his tenure as mayor and its work complements the corporation’s, not replaces it. A parking lot could not be made due to lack of space in the densely populated place, he said, but “two big toilets blocks are under construction and two others are already in place”.
 
 The situation is worse in the jhuggi-jhopri clusters near Lajpat Nagar. In Indira Gandhi Camp, 60-year-old Asha Maai, grumbled, “It is as if we are invisible. Imagine, they come to clear garbage every 15 days.” It isn’t surprising then that residents fear expansion of the geographic area of the wards is a good augury. Neeraj Duggal, a shopkeeper in Nehru Nagar, protested, “After being clubbed with Lajpat Nagar, the future is bleaker because funds meant for the whole ward will mostly go to Lajpat Nagar. Look at the messy drainage and the heaps of garbage here — and the roads too.”
 
 Lajpat Nagar Market, of course, has its own woes. The roads there are well laid and garbage gets picked up on schedule, but it is a motorist’s nightmare. “If only they sorted the parking mess, we’d be a happy lot,” murmured shop owner Mukul Malhotra. Defending Kavita Malhotra, the Congress councillor, her husband and former area representative Subhash Malhotra disclosed that the parking could not be built due to lack of a suitable plot.
 
 
