CHENNAI: Several AIADMK legislators are 'resting' in two resorts on East Coast Road since Wednesday night, allegedly to prevent them from joining the camp of caretaker chief minister  , who rebelled against general secretary  . While the majority are in a resort at Koovathur, about 70km from Chennai, the others are in a resort at Poonthandalam. Brought in luxury buses, they were not allowed to interact with reporters or members of the rival camp. They were not even allowed to use mobile phones or watch television in their rooms. A dozen of them, in protest, refused lunch on Thursday.

 Some of the 'guards', said to be supporters of Sasikala, prevented journalists from reaching the resorts, blocking them around 2km away. A mud path leading to one resort was blocked. Ministers Jayakumar, C Ve Shanmugam, Selvaraj and Sengottaiyan were seen going into the resort at Koovathur; Vijaya Bhaskar was at the other.
 
 Sources said prior arrangements had been made to fortify the MLAs with non-vegetarian food and liquor on a day when Tasmac outlets and shops selling meat and fish were closed for Thaipoosam.
 
 An argument erupted when some Koovathur residents were prevented from entering the hamlet. “They also stopped journalists from reaching the hotel.Even our MLA is staying in the hotel... We learned that one MLA was injured when he fell into the pool,“ said S Kannan, a resident.
 
 More than a dozen journalists waiting since morning joined the argument when a 'guard' threatened to break the cameras. Finally, a man calling himself Sharif and saying he was vicechairman of Tindivanam municipality said all MLAs in the resort were fine.
 
 Then, realizing he had spilled the beans, he said he and five others had come on a personal tour. “We have not kidnapped anybody. All of them (in the hotel) are happy. Any follower of MGR and Amma will follow the footsteps of Chinnamma without asking questions. Fraudsters and those questioning party leadership cannot be in the party,“ he said.
 
