Ever-changing exam schedules that stretch on for weeks, eating into internships and fest plans, catching students unaware at the last moment is an all too familiar routine at   in Tamil Nadu. While an academic calendar spelt out by Anna   exists, most engineering colleges choose to ignore this, tweaking and rescheduling dates. In a bid to curb this rampant practice, the state higher education department will soon enforce the exam schedule on each of Anna University's 500-odd affiliated colleges in the state.

 Higher education secretary  , on Sunday, said the state is floating the idea to keep check on colleges that breach the schedule. “We will bring it into the affiliation system. The new rule will ensure that a college pushing a test that was supposed to start for instance on July 3 to July 15, will stand to lose affiliation points,“ he said, adding that students are supposed to plan activities around their academics, without having to miss out on extracurricular opportunities.
 
 “All 23 regional education officers have recently conducted meetings with engineering college principals in the state to address them on this issue,“ said Paliwal.By losing `affiliation points' he says colleges can stand to lose seats. This is because affiliation points determine the standing of an affiliated college, and a drop in points could be bad news for a seat demand.
 
 “While we cannot send instructions to other autonomous colleges, we will send them the guidelines,“ said TV Geetha, dean, CEG.
 
 Along with this, a new system for arrears was also announced.The arrear-clearing window for   that climbed upto as many as six years before has been set at three years now.
 
 This means, a student pursuing a   course has to clear all arrears within seven years (4 year course + 3 year window).
 
 “As many as 8,000 papers were up for correction this year, and students have to suffer because of the large number of back papers that fill up. We will cut it down to 1,800 from this year,“ added Paliwal.
 
 
 
 
 Chennai: The state has launched a new exam called Tamil Nadu Aptitude Test in Architecture (Tanata 2017) to fill the 1,034 vacant undergraduate architecture seats. The exam will be conducted in August and will admit students into BArch programmes across 49 Anna University affiliated institutions, including its constituent college School of Architecture and Planning (SAP). There are 3,043 architecture seats up for grabs but many lie vacant. Only about 2,009 students from TN cleared the entrance for architecture -Nata (National Aptitude Test in Architecture) -leaving a gap in enrolment. Tanata looks to fill this, and is throwing open the seats to candidates who took Nata 2016 as well. Registrations can be done online.
 
