MEERUT: A day after BJP announced candidates for as many as 149 seats, many of them in restive West UP,   victims said the decision to give tickets to riots accused   was like rubbing salt on their wounds. Riot victims said most people have seen through the BJP’s game of “engineering riots to come to power” and will get a befitting reply to the party in this elections.
 
  “All Muslims and Hindus are together now. We cannot go back on what happened in Muzaffarnagar riots, but we will ensure that fiery speeches from any of these leaders don’t create misunderstanding among the people here. All of us know that BJP tries to engineer riots to come to power and we are not going to fall for it again,” said Shauqat Saifi, a 2013 riots victim.
  
  Riots accused sitting MLAs Suresh Rana from Thana Bhawan and Sangeet Som from Sardhana have continued to be favourites of the BJP leadership as both were among the 149 candidates in the first list announced on Monday. The Akhilesh government had slapped the National Security Act (NSA) on both Rana and Som accusing them of inciting mob through   and at public gatherings.
  
  “This step is equivalent to rubbing salt on our wounds. Due to these people, the situation in Muzaffarnagar had worsened. It was due to them that rumours were spread in the area and people started pelting stones and leaving their homes for no reason. Our vote is not going to them anyway, but this is insensitive of BJP to repeat riots accused in the list,” said Mohd. Shamshaad, who had to leave his village Kutba at the time of riots.
  
  Though Rana and Som were both acquitted by court in the NSA cases, they emerged as the polarising forces of the UP BJP from western UP which saw after a long time Dalits and Jats joining hands during the   election and giving a clean sweep to the party. Rana was later rewarded with the post of UP BJP vice-president, which his critics said, was an award for his role in the Muzaffarnagar riots.
  
  Victims of Peda clashes – in which three persons were killed and 12 were injured -- in Bijnor also resonated similar sentiments as BJP announced the candidature of Suchi Chaudhary, wife of Peda riots’ accused Aishwarya Chaudhary, from Bijnor.
  
  Mohd. Furkan, who had filed the FIR in Peda clashes, said, “On the one hand, PM   says that his party will give tickets to people who don’t have any criminal background; but on the other hand, the people who incited the crowd and led them during clashes have been given tickets.”
