NAGPUR: Members of Bhumimafia Pidit Jan Andolan (BPJA) on Wednesday took to the streets and staged demonstrations at   against land sharks and state government’s ‘inability’ to provide justice.

 The protest was mainly targeted against corporator Dilip Gwalbanshi, ‘Om’, ‘Munna’ and many others who are involved in several cases of land grabbing and extortion. The agitators also demanded that Devendra Fadnavis government come up with better land policies.
 
 Nikhil Gandhi, one of the victims, told TOI, “In 1988, I had bought a plot at   from   but in 2003 I was forced to leave the plot due to threats from land sharks. I am fighting a case in the court and we all know how fast our judiciary system works.” He was not ready to name the land grabber.
 
 More than 200 people claimed to have been duped in such cases. One of them, Suresh Burrewar said, “I was deceived by  , who sold me a land belonging to tribal people. I was shocked to find it registered in someone else’s name. I had invested more than Rs20 lakh.”
 
 “The sheer number of such cases in courts suggests that there are loopholes in government policies, which the land grabbers are exploiting to rob people. If all the land cases are taken into account, this is a scam which runs into more than hundreds of crores but the government is not taking any action,” said Andolan president Dilip Navarvadiya.
 
 He added that the committee formed by the Maharashtra government to look into land grab cases in Nagpur should be given more power and action should be taken against inefficient officials. “When we met district collector Sachin Kurve on Wednesday, he stated that he would take up the issue with the CM and ensure that the culprits are punished.”
 
 “Many land grabbing cases have come to fore at Besa, Bori, Piti Chuwha, Dhaba, Beltarodi, Godhni, Saoner, areas adjacent to Wardha Road and many more. Even after several complaints to the police and government, negligible action has been taken,” said BPJA secretary Gyaneshwar Gurve.
 
 He claimed land grabbing has increased due to new industries being set up in the city. Farm lands are being acquired by exploiting farmers and rural people in Nagpur and Wardha district, he said. 
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
