HYDERABAD: Fearing attacks from the then   (PWG), the  , which is on the  , was shut down nearly 20 years ago by the united   police. Now, with several important irrigation and road projects being taken up by the Telangana government in Kanaigudem, police top brass are mulling to revive the police station with help from the   (CRPF).

 Kanaigudem is now in Bhupalpally district, carved out of the erstwhile Warangal district.With reported Maoist movement in the region, the Kanaigudem police station has been functioning from Eturnagaram, a different police station jurisdiction, since October 2016. Though Maoists in Telangana have been nearly decimated, geographically Kanaigudem is vulnerable as it sits on the shores of the Godavari river, which divides Telangana and Chhattisgharh states. As most Maoist cadre from Telangana were based in Chhattisgarh, they occasionally cross over to Telangana to record their presence. As a result, the local police would be not be visible except during combing and other special operations.
 
 “At one point of time, when the PW activities were at their peak, the Kanaigudem police station building had to be vacated. As it was unocccupied for all these years, the building became dilapidated and a portion of it crumbled too. A new building will come up as we want to take complete control of the area by strengthening security and giving no scope for any sabotage by the extremists,“ credible sources in the Telangana police told TOI.
 
 Maoists were very active in Telangana between 1980 and 2004. It is learnt that one of the main reasons for the Telangana police brass to revive the police station was to provide cover to the development activities such as the Devadula irrigation project and laying of roads to improve connectivity. In the past, the rebels had set ablaze machinery and vehicles used by contractors.The Maoists too have been making attempts to make their presence felt in Telangana. Recently, the CPI (Maoist) had planted an improvised explosive device (IED) in Bhupalpally district.
 
 For anti-Maoist operations, the Telangana police had requested the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to sanction about 1,200 CRPF personnel for the state to beef up security in Naxal-hit districts.Though the   reportedly accepted the proposal, the state police have been waiting for completion of elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states to get CRPF support. The central force would be deployed in places like Kanaigudem, Khammam-Chhattisgarh border, Karimnagar-Maharashtra border and a few other locations to thwart revival bid of the extremists.
 
