NEW DELHI: BJP chief   on Friday trashed the opposition’s claim that investigations by 
  by some of their leaders was political vendetta, saying those making the claim had not been able to dispute the charges. 

 “ 
  have not denied allegations of benami property worth Rs 1,000 crore. The 
  in their vests as they collected cash for favours. Is it not then incumbent upon the agencies to probe the charge? Why should the opposition be screaming if the cases of corruption are being probed?” Shah asked. His remarks came on a day when the issue of alleged vendetta figured prominently in a meeting of opposition parties.
 
 Shah’s tough posture, in response to a question at a press conference he held to mark the third anniversary of the Modi government, was seen as an indication that the vendetta charge is unlikely to lead the Centre to lean on agencies probing charges of corruption against opposition figures. 
 
 Shah said there was no political vendetta but agencies were acting on merit against cases of corruption. He said the actions of agencies should not be compared with what happened during Indira Gandhi’s tenure as PM, which was marked by the imposition of Emergency and suppression of civil rights. 
 
 “You can’t compare us with  ... she imposed Emergency and media was gagged,” Shah said. Asked about the opposition questioning the award to Major Nitin Leetul Gogoi, who had tied an alleged Kashmiri stone-pelter to the bonnet of his jeep as a shield, the BJP president hailed the   officer for saving people’s lives. 
 
 “The work that Major Gogoi has done... saving the lives of the poll party and police personnel, I appreciate it and also support it,” Shah said. On more honours to Major Gogoi, he said, “There is a process to give any honour. He has been given an award by the Army.” Reacting to the situation in J&K, Shah said the government was confident of restoring normalcy in the Valley with help of security forces. About allegations of poor law and order in UP, he said CM Yogi Adityanath had acted promptly on most occasions.
 
