CHENNAI: Reliance Jio, the telecom venture of Reliance Industries (RIL), is aiming to meet 60% of the demand for data in 2020-21 (FY21) by when data volumes are expected to touch about 6 billion GB per month. This is over five times expansion from the current levels (including Jio’s free usage offering)

 The strategy is to force contraction in the overall voice market size from Rs 1.5 lakh crore now to Rs 50,000 crore by continuing with its subsidised voice offerings, Reliance Jio said at its first meeting with market analysts.
 
 However, it expects this decline to be more than offset by growing data revenues. Currently, there are about 760 million mobile devices in the market, which includes nearly 260 million smartphones, which is growing exponentially. Currently, over 100 million smartphone shipments happen annually.
 
 “We believe this will increase the bundled voice and data offering and protect ARPUs, as consumer wallet share may remain same or increase over time but with higher proportion of data offerings,” analysts at Motilal Oswal Securities (MOSL) said.
 
 “Data has high price elasticity unlike voice and as screen size, resolution, data speeds and time spent on internet increase, data demand will grow exponentially,” Reliance Jio’s management told analysts. Building huge capacities has been the company’s key strategy.
 
 “The company believes that data capacity will determine revenue market share,” analysts said. “Its huge data capacity, estimated to reach 60% of FY21 estimated data capacity over the next one year, should allow it to garner a high market share,” they said.
 
 According to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), overall data consumption in the industry stood at 155 million GB in the first quarter of 2016-17 (FY17). “Jio management indicated that currently about 1 billion GB data is getting consumed on Jio per month and that it will have capacity to offer about 4 billion GB data per month by end-FY17,” analysts said.
 
 The company has said that it is targeting a 50% market share and expects the industry’s revenues to touch Rs 3 lakh crore by FY21. This is over 50% jump from the 2015-16 levels, driven by ARPU (average revenues per user) accretion on the back of growing data consumption. The company is also aiming an EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) margin of 50%.
 
 “Management also indicated that its huge capacity is driven not only by its high number of cell sites and spectrum, but also by its deeper fiber backhaul of 60% cell sites and better SINR ratios (signal-to-interference-plus-noise),” analysts said.
 
 Reliance’s entry would intensify competition and trigger consolidation in the sector, experts said. “We believe the market could remain competitive for an extended period considering RJio’s aggressive revenue market share expectations,” analysts at Religare Capital Markets said.
 
 “We think that price competition would remain intense and earnings recovery would hinge on data-led recovery in industry growth,” they said. “In our view, among the incumbent operators, Bharti and the combined Vodafone-Idea entity should be able to match RJio’s capacity,” analysts at MOSL said.
 
 
