And now, writers are telling the tales in the voices of characters seen often but seldom heard

 For an epic that's composed of over 200,000 individual verses, it is not surprising that the Mahabharata continues to be an   today . The retellings are numerous and the scope for imagination limitless.
 
 “The Mahabharata is a wonderful story, almost like a soap opera with all elements in place from politics to war and even adultery. It's a solid story all around and another reason I like it is because it really is a story about us.We continue to talk about politics and war even today, don't we?
 
 notes writer Trisha Das. But while straight translations and interpretations have been done enough times, writers today are finding their muses in seldom heard characters like Duryodhana, Bhima, Shikandin and even Karna's wife, Uruvi. In her book, Immortal, writer   makes Asvatthama the protagonist of the story. The immortal has assumed the identity of  , a cynical, gun-toting professor for hire. “When researching The   (Udayasankar's first novel), I was super-impressed by the numerous references to Asvatthama's skill and talent throughout the epic ­ despite which he stays in the shadows in popular versions. He was also one of the characters that stayed with me the most after I was done writing the three books, and I got to thinking about the theory that he still walks amongst us. The idea grew and here we are!“ says Udayasankar about choosing to write an entire book around a fringe character from the Mahabharata.
 
 “I grew up hearing stories from the epics and it was the negative characters that always fascinated me,“ says Anand Neelakantan, who has authored three books based on the  . His first book, Asura: Tale of the Vanquished has Ravana as the narrator of the Ramayana, a Ravanayana, if you please. His other two books, Ajaya: Roll of the Dice and Ajaya: Rise of Kali have Duryodhana as the narrator.
 
 “You can call it the Kaurava Mahab harata because you hear the story from Duryodhana, Karna and even Ekalavya's point of view.“
 
 Neelakantan's focus, while penning the reimaginings is not about proving his characters right. “I don't sit down with the agenda of proving anyone right.There's almost like a roleplay going on in my head where I am, say , Ravana. As a writer, my attempt is to try and present a narrative that presents the character's good and bad aspects,“ explains Neelakantan about the thought process that goes behind writing stories with an alternative viewpoint.
 
 When Das wrote Ms Draupadi Kuru, a novel where Draupadi, along with her friends Gandhari, Amba and Kunti, visit New Delhi because they are bored of heaven, her idea was to “see what these women whom we worship would have to say about our life and times today .“ “As women in modern India, there are things they can do, but they also continue to be attacked because of their sex.So, while so much has changed, so much still remains the same even today,“ says Das.
 
 
 
 
 “Who knows what's fact or fiction in our epics? How do you know which is the correct version?
 
 There are 300 different versions of the Ramayana. What could be fact in for one could be fiction for someone else,“ argues Neelakantan about treading the fine line between what is fact and fiction in the epics.
 
 “The question of what is mythology and mythological fiction is quite moot. Let's face it, no one today is going to read the original Mahabharata in Sanskrit. Most of us have heard it orally first and then read various interpretations of the text, so as a writer who is reimagining the epic today , I am only trying to humanizing it for my readers,“ says Aditya Iyengar, who has written two books that are based on the epic: The Thirteenth Day, and Palace of Assasins: The Rise of Ashwatthama.Das concurs. “There are people who will troll you saying that what you've written in your book is incorrect, but what we tend to forget is that for most of us in India today , the tale that we are familiar with is BR Chopra's Mahabharata that we watched on TV . How can you argue when you don't know which version is correct?“ she questions. So when it comes to taking huge leaps of imagination, writing novels out of epics is about filling in the blanks.
 
 “For instance, in Ramayana, the fact is Rama killed Ravana. I cannot change that but what I can do is explore an angle about whether Rama was right or wrong in doing it,“ explains Neelakantan. “I rely a lot on research to come up with plausible alternative explanations, especially if magic or divinity are not options,“ says Udayasankar. “For example, in the narrative of the Mahabharata that emerged from my research, Asvatthama is a man who belongs to a family of scholars and scientists, and it seemed far more plausible that he was “bio-engineered“ into immortality than cursed to it. The rest follows.“
 
 Once you've dipped into the epics for inspiration, the tales are just waiting to be told. “In my next book, I plan to bring the Pandavas down from heaven,“ reveals Das. For Iyengar, it's the fascination one continues to have with the characters. He says, “Growing up you always fell in love with the simpler characters, but over time it's the conflicted characters who stay with you. And as a writer, it's natural to reimagine the epics through these subaltern characters.“
 
