Chandigarh: A week after the UT excise and taxation department ordered the installation of breathalyser machines in bars and restaurants across the city, TOI found out that only a few alcohol-serving establishments have managed to procure the device.

 Interestingly, the ones who have are already complaining of inaccurate readings and non-chargeable batteries.
 
 Bars and restaurant owners are also complaining about the lack of expertise in operating the machines that have been acquired. They are lamenting that the device they have obtained is not being used to its maximum potential.
 
 TOI found out that from a cluster of fifty hotels, bars and taverns across Sector 26, Sector 35, Sector 43, Sector 22, and Sector 9, not more than seven establishments have managed to procure an   or a breathalyser machine.
 
 “We have ordered a breathalyser machine from Delhi, but the delivery will take a few days,” the manager of First Hotel, Sector 43, said.
 
 The manager of Hotel Western Court, Sector 43, informed that they have bought a breathalyser device from an online e-commerce portal, but are awaiting the delivery and are uncertain about the time it would take to arrive.
 
 Numerous bars, restaurants and microbreweries – from Sector 26 to 35 – echoed the same thought, as most of them are expecting deliveries in the next few weeks. 
 
 However, a few hotels, who did manage to get the possession of an alcometer, complained of not being able to use it due to the lack of training and also highlighted some technical defects.
 
 The manager of Hotel Park Grand, Sector 43, said, “This (alcometer) arrived on Wednesday itself, but we have still not used it because our staff doesn’t know how to use it.”
 
 The management at Hotel Metro, Sector 43, added, “We have this (alcometer) in our drawer since three days, but we cannot switch it on because it is not getting charged. We think it’s defective and we will send it back to Amazon, and demand for a replacement.”
 
 While demonstrating the use of an alcometer, the staff of F Bar, Sector 26, complained of inaccurate and delayed readings being displayed.
 
 Another disparity that was felt was the wide range in the difference of cost and quality of various types of alcometers. The excise and taxation department had suggested the use of uniform and a standard alcometer across the city.
 
 Among the three different specimens of breathlysers currently available with the city bars and restaurants, one begins from Rs 950 and it goes till Rs 6,500. A few costed Rs 2,500 as well.
 
 “We have not ordered any of these on our own, our higher management has ordered it for us,” said the manager at Purple Frog, a bar in Sector 26. They had also sent their breathalyser device for a defective piece check on Wednesday.
 
 Putting up a volte face, Ankit Gupta, the president of Hotels Association of Chandigarh, told TOI, “We had anticipated a time period of four to six weeks for the delivery of all breathalyser machines. We are working on it, but it will take some time.”
 
 
