NASHIK: The city is set to get a tribal mayor. 

 In the lottery held in Mumbai on Friday to select the reservation for the mayor's post in 27 municipal corporations across the state, the mayor's post for Nashik was allotted to the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category.
 
 This is the first time the   will have a mayor from the ST community. 
 
 The NMC is also the only civic body in the state to get the reservation. The mayor's term will be two-and-half years. At present, the mayor is an open category candidate.
 
 Tribal leaders, cutting across party lines, are elated that a tribal shall become the city's first citizen after the civic polls. 
 
 Sitting tribal   corporator and party candidate Ranjana Bhansi praised the state government for honouring the adivasi community. "I am contesting the civic polls for the fifth time. On two occasions I contested from seats reserved for women and twice from the general category seats and won on a BJP ticket. Our government has honoured the adivasi community. I have been serving people for 20 years and this is the first time we are getting this opportunity," she said.
 
 Echoing similar views,   candidate and sitting corporator Parshram Waghere said, "After 20-25 years, for the first time Nashik will have a mayor from the tribal community. We will try to make Nashik 'smart' in view of the government's Smart City programme. We have some plans for this."
 
 Meanwhile, the reservation for the mayor's post in the other municipal corporations are: Panvel (female candidate), Nanded-Waghala (female) and Amravati (general candidate). The following civic bodies will have a mayor from the OBC category:   (female), Jalgaon (female) Chandrapur (female),   (female) Pimpri-Chinchwad (general), Navi Mumbai (general), Aurangabad (general).
 
 There are 16 open category mayoral posts (eight male and eight female): Thane (female), Kalyan (female), Ulhasnagar (female), Parbhani (female) Solapur (female), Kolhapur (female) Pune (female) Nagpur (female), Mumbai (male), Latur (male), Dhule (male), Malegaon (male), Bhiwandi (male), Akola (male), Ahmednagar (male), Vasai (male). 
 
