CALANGUTE (GOA): The first case of counterfeiting of the   circulated after   has come to light in Goa after the Calangute police recently arrested six tourists from Andhra Pradesh.

 Calangute police sources said that the Andhra tourists had managed to make a fake Rs 500 note. They, however, did not reveal the method used by them as the investigation is still in progress.
 
 “It was a fake version of the new Rs 500 note. The counterfeiting work was of shoddy nature. It was quite obvious that the note was fake,“ Calangute police sources told TOI. The counterfeiting came to light after Diago Monteiro, a resident of Parra, lodged a complaint that six tourists from AP had tried to settle their bill at his restaurant at Sauntavaddo, Calangute, by slipping in a fake note along with genuine ones. “They paid the bill by slipping the counterfeit Rs 500 note along with 20 genuine notes. It is a grave offence,“ said a police officer.“We are now sending the counterfeit note to the forensic laboratory in Nashik, Maharashtra, for further investigation,“ he added.
 
 The arrest has put a question on the avowed aim of the demonetisation exercise. The Centre had claimed that the key objective of the move was to weed out fake currency from circulation.The new fake note was confiscated on Jan 8, two months after the old notes were taken out of circulation. The six tourists -Veta Kamlakar, Duggu Kumar, Devisetty Narasimharao, Chitteti Naguriah, Pallikonda Pratap and Golla Yadav -were arrested under sections 489-B (Using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes), 489-C (Possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes) read with Section 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. They were taken into two days police custody and produced before the first class judicial magistrate in Mapusa, who remanded them to judicial custody. The six tourists were later granted bail by the additional district and sessions court, Mapusa. “They do not have past criminal records,“ Calangute police sources said.
 
