GAYA: In a move that may adversely affect the career prospects of nearly 200 directly recruited college principals across the state, the   (PU) has officially declared principals as non-teaching employees of the university, thereby reducing their superannuation age. 

 As per section 64 of the Bihar State Universities Act, 62 is the superannuation age for non-teaching employees.   (UGC) has fixed the retirement age of college/university teachers at 65 years.
 
 In a letter addressed to  , joint secretary at governor's secretariat in Raj Bhavan, PU registrar   has said the 2012 amendment to the Act has delisted the post of principal from the teaching category, thereby making it a non-teaching one.
 
 In response to an earlier Raj Bhavan query on the status of Rakesh Kumar Verma, principal of Patna Law College, the university registrar said Verma was appointed principal prior to the 2012 amendment and, at that time, the post of principal belonged to the teaching category. In the light of the amendment, the Patna Law College principal should have retired in September 2016 after attaining the age of 62 years.
 
 The letter further said as per the restrictions imposed by the governor-cum-chancellor, the interim VC is not empowered to take a decision on the principal's superannuation and has sought the chancellor's direction in the matter. 
 
 It is apparent from the content of the letter that only directly recruited principals fall in the non-teaching category and professors-in-charge temporarily officiating as principals continue to belong to the teaching category.
 
 The issue of 62 years being the superannuation age for principals in the light of the 2012 amendment was first raised by Shiv Jatan Thakur, professor of English at Patna University and an expert on university laws and statutes.
 
 Labelling the 2012 amendment as inherently flawed, Nageshwar Sharma, former director, higher education, said the post of principal may have been omitted from the teaching category on account of clerical oversight and the anomaly has to be removed through a curative amendment to the Act.
 
 Only someone with ten years teaching experience can be appointed as principal and, as such, putting the principal's post in the non-teaching category was an anachronism, said Sharma. Common sense also says that a non-teacher cannot hold the office of principal.
 
 If the same logic is applied, vice-chancellors, too, will come into the non-teaching category and eligible for retirement at the age of 62, Sharma opined.
 
 
