BENGALURU: Highlighting the ‘pittance’ lawyers who represent undertrials from the free   are paid, a special judge recently passed an order asking the government to pay one of the lawyers more than ten times the amount he was entitled to.

  representing the accused under the provisions of free legal aid are paid Rs 900 to conduct an entire trial -- a trial that can be completed in a day, or can last several years. This is in stark contrast to lakhs paid to private lawyers for a single hearing in court.
 
 Judge V V Patil, while awarding Rs10,000 to advocate  , who represented an accused in a case of robbery, said, “Payment of a fee of Rs 900 in such a bulky matter is a mockery of the efforts made by the learned counsel.”
 
 This order was passed on an application filed by the lawyer under the lesser used Section 304 of the CrPC. “The advocate for the accused has been appointed from the free legal aid committee. It is informed to this court the learned counsel would get fees of Rs 900 only in the present matter. In this context, it is to note that in the present proceedings the prosecution examined in all 24 witnesses. The learned counsel for the accused conducted and argued the case at his level best. He attended proceedings punctually,” the judge said.
 
 As of today, very few lawyers’ sign up on the free legal aid committee because of the meagre amount they are paid. This in turn leads to the accused being denied access to quality legal counsel, which defeats the purpose of offering free legal aid. Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 was enacted to effectuate the constitutional mandate enshrined under Article 14 and 39-A of the Constitution. The   (MSLASA) says, “The object is ‘access to justice for all’, so that justice is not denied to citizens by reasons of economic or other disabilities.”
 
 Shaikh was representing an accused held guilty of robbery and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment. However, he was discharged under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA).
 
 Last year, Mumbai Mirror had reported that the government had finally increased the fees of public prosecutors, who are lawyers representing the state. While earlier they were paid Rs 500 a day, under the new rules, depending on the cases they take up, they can now be paid up to Rs 60,000 a month.
 
 Advocate  , who has been on the High Court’s legal Aid Panel for 20 years, said that he had started off with a meagre sum of Rs 160. “The only way you can survive while on the panel is that you use it as a learning experience. Because it’s very unlikely you would get this type of exposure in private practice. The fee for lawyers on the legal aid committee has been revised only twice since 1993. Until last year it was Rs 2,100. It was only when Justice Abhay Oka took over as Chairman that the amount was increased to Rs 10,000.”
 
