PUNE: Avinash Naik (35), who was arrested on Friday night in connection with the petrol station scam being probed by the Uttar Pradesh police, was a smart technician employed with an electronics shop at a mall in  . 

 Naik is being questioned for allegedly making and selling electronic chips and remote control devices to petrol pump owners in UP.
 
 The UP police’s special task force is investigating the crime in which the suspects allegedly prepared chips and remote control devices for tampering fuel dispensing units at petrol pumps.
 
 The manipulation meant the machine would deliver lesser fuel than the quantity shown in the reading. 
 
 Naik’s employer  , who is the proprietor of Vigil Systems at the Akurdi mall, said Naik had been working as a technician with him for the last five years. “He is a hard working man and has a sound knowledge of making electronic chips and remote controls. He was interested in making sensor-based chips for the security of four and two-wheelers. He also made remote-controlled devices for the same purpose,” Patil added. “We wonder whether he has any direct role in the alleged crime, or was merely catering to orders that may have been placed by the suspects,” he said. 
 
 The shop also makes electronic chips and remote control for television sets and other electronic gadgets. Patil said the UP police had visited the shop and detained Naik on Friday. “He has now been taken to Thane, from where the UP police will take him to Lucknow,” he said.
 
 The police claimed to have seized 177 remote-control units and 189 signal receiving electronic chips. “One of the suspects arrested by the UP police had revealed that they had placed an order to make the chips and remote control units for petrol pump operators in UP from an electronic shop in Akurdi. Based on the information, the police detained Naik. This does not mean that he has committed an offence. An order might have been placed by the suspects with Naik for some other purpose, but they misused the products for tampering the fuel dispensing units,” said Patil.
 
