NOIDA: A 25-year-old man killed his younger sister in Noida and surreptitiously shifted her body to their native place in Amroha to bury it there. However, the accused was caught after locals in Amroha suspected his narrative that the woman died after her braid was chopped off in Barolla village where similar incidents took place in the past. 

 According to police, the murder took place on August 18. Salman (25), originally from Amroha in UP, had set up a juice shop in Barolla village. He lived with his sister Salma (19) in Noida. The woman, meanwhile, started seeing someone which her brother disliked. Salman asked her to keep away from the man but she ignored his advice. On August 18, the siblings quarrelled over the issue. “The accused suffocated his sister to death using a pillow. He then took the body to Amroha,” said a police officer. The accused took his parents into confidence and cooked up a story saying that his sister fell unconscious and died after her hair was chopped. Salman said that she did not respond to medical treatment and died later.
 
 However, the neighbours suspected his story and informed local police about the mysterious death. Meanwhile, the family members swiftly planned her burial and rushed the body to a nearby cemetery on August 19.
 
 Jitendra Kumar, CO, Amroha, said police reached the spot and stopped the procession after getting information. “The body was sent for postmortem. The report stated the death was due to choking and strangulation,” he said.
 
 This put the doubt on Salman. The police questioned the accused and his parents separately and found discrepancies in their narratives. On further interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime.
 
  arrested him on August 19 and registered a case of murder. The accused was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.
 
 Parshuram, SHO, Sector 49 police station, said the case file reached   only on Thursday. “Amroha police had registered an FIR and arrested him. They did not inform us about the matter at the time of arrest,” he said.
 
 The Amroha police has now transferred the case to Noida police. The accused was also shifted from Amroha jail to Luksar Jail in Greater Noida on Thursday.
 
 
