Taapsee Pannu, who has established herself as one of the nation's most talented actress with her stellar performances in films like 'Baby', 'Pink' and ' ', speaks about the issue and existence of ‘nepotism’ in Bollywood and the south industry in an interview with TimesOfIndia.com.

 Speaking about the nepotism debate, which has been making headlines in the Industry for quite some time now, the quintessential actress said, "I am a living example of the fact that it is not impossible (to make it in this industry) . It is hard, but not impossible. There will be people, a bunch of people, who will still want to cast you because of your talent and nothing else. But yes, it is hard. Every Friday is a test for you. That's the reason why I still feel like a struggler and not an A-lister because I know there is no one backing me. One flop film and maybe I'll have to start from the scratch. That fear is always there and no one is going to make a call for me. I don't even have a controversy to get me back into the limelight again. So all that stress will be there and we have to live with it and accept it. Whenever someone asked me about nepotism, I used to answer them by saying that this is the rule of the game, so it wasn't a shocker to me."
 
 
  
 
 This is an issue that exists not only in Bollywood but also down south. Taapsee, who rose to fame from south Indian cinemas, also spoke about why the debate never grabbed attention there. "In Bollywood, the females also come from film families but in the south, about 95 per cent of the girls are from outside. So that's why that debate is not that big there because there are mostly only actors (male) who come from film families. In Bollywood, the media is bigger and people tend to question a lot of things more than what people question down south. Unlike here, nobody has raised a question down there as yet. The elephant is still in the room out there," she added.
 
 
  
 
 When asked if she will continue doing films down south, Taapsee said, "I am going to be acting in the south as well. I am very happy that I have reached a position where I will do a film when I really want to and regardless of who else is a part of it. I think I am very lucky to come into this position. I will be doing a south film very soon where it will not matter who the hero is."
 
 Helmed by  , 'Judwaa 2' is scheduled to release on 29 September. The film also features   and   in pivotal roles.   too will be seen in a cameo in the film which is a reboot of his 1997 hit film 'Judwaa'.
 
