JAIPUR: Rajasthan is one of the states which has spent more funds than the budgetary allocation to it under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ) in 2016-17 (till January 13, 2017).

 According to a report prepared by accountability initiative, an advocacy group based in Delhi, the desert state has spent 111% of the total funds available under the scheme.
 
 The high spending is a reason behind state’s high average of generating work days and high average of number of work days household wise. The highest spending was done by Assam with 123% of the total budget allocated for the scheme. 
 
 The   releases fund on the basis of an annual labour budget submitted by states. This labour budget includes estimates of the anticipated demand for unskilled manual work and a draft plan for providing employment to workers.
 
 
 The report has also alalysed employment generation under the scheme based on two indicators—the number of person days of work generated and average number of person days generated per household employed under this scheme. 
 
 The highest number of work days generated by Nagaland with 110 days followed by 101 days by Karnataka. Rajasthan stands 7th in the country with 82 average workdays. State may stand 7th in the country but still far behind meeting at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every household whose   to do unskilled manual work. Bihar and Madhya Pradesh has below 50 days of average work generated during the same period.
 
 Social audits have been one of the important pillars of this scheme. Section 17 of the   says that gram sabhas are required to undertake audits of the work conducted by the gram panchayats. Report says that only Karnataka and Meghlaya has 100% of villages where audits has started while Rajasthan has 67% of the villages which saw the start of audits till January 13, 2017.
 
 “Social audits have merely fulfilling the ritual with no actual ground being done by the auditors. In many cases they are not even trained to carry out audits. So audits by these persons has high possibility of error in all stages of auditing,” said Mukesh Goswami of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. 
 
