KOLKATA: Scientists at the   have examined the   larvae and found mosquito can kill the   that transmits dengue. 

 "The immature forms of Lutzia Fuscana mosquito, currently in its larval stages, have been collected from swamps, marshes, bogs, rice fields, ditches, grassy pools, rock and flood pools, stream pools and margins, tree stump holes, crab holes, artificial containers, and tire depressions," a researcher explained.
 
 Dengue is one of the world's most serious infectious diseases and affects more than 390 million people each year. 
 
 In the laboratory, Lutzia Fuscana larvae demonstrated a feeding preference for Aedes Aegypti larvae, with Anopheles stephensi and Culex larvae of lower preference, consuming an average of 19-24 larvae per day, the researchers said.
 
 The species has been found in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Mariana Islands, Micronesia (Wake Island), Myanmar (Burma), Nepal, Pakistan, Palau, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Timor, and Vietnam.
 
 If Kolkata Corporation spreads the larvae of this mosquito, Aedes Aegypti larvae can be erased," a research report published in Italy magazine on December last year said.
 
 "A full grown Lutzia mosquito eats the juicy part of the flower and leaves. We use dangerous chemicals to kill  . But the use of Lutzia larvae can be the better solution,"researchers said in the report.
 
 According to researchers of Calcutta University, Lutzia larvae eats 19-24 Aedes larvae per day and How much Aedes larvae will be eaten by Lutzia depends on its form or body.
 
 "The Lutzia larvae is spread in America and Japan by the civic authority. Lutzia can be more effective than other process to eradicate any virus carrying mosquito," Calcutta University Professor Gautam Aditya claimed.
 
 "Right now we are trying to create mosquito cage to produce Lutzia larvae scientifically. After that they larvae may be spread in High drains to kill Aedes Aegyptai," Aditya added.
 
 Report: Saberi Gupta
 
 
 
 
 
