Nagpur: The long-pending proposals of a new administrative building at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and a 250-room resident doctors hostel at Government Medical College and hospital (GMCH) received administrative approval from the state government on Friday. The approvals were given by department of medical education and drugs through two separate Government Resolutions (GR). The 250-room hostel will be a four storey building was proposed by directorate of medical education research (DMER) on January 4, 2016. Against the Rs 49.75 crore needed for it, government has approved Rs 43.02 crore. The government has put seven conditions. One of them is to take environmental clearance for the building and that the building should be equipped with renewable energy system. The existing three hostels of resident doctors are not enough and are also in dilapidated condition. About 400 residents reside in three GMCH hostels. The biggest one, located close to the casualty ward, has a capacity of 200. The facility is 35 years old. The other two hostels, both 30 years old, are located close to dental college hostel and have a capacity to accommodate 40 residents each. The new hostel will also be coming up near dental college hostel. Regarding the IGMCH administrative building, DMER had proposed the project on January 1, 2015. It took two years and four months for the project to receive approval. In the IGMCH board of visitors meeting led by guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule, during August 2016, the minister had assured to pursue the project. The six-storey building will cos Rs 92.02 crore and the government has approved Rs 77.64 crore for now. The administrative building will house all the pre-and para clinical departments and lecture halls according to Medical Council of India (MCI) norms. Here also the government has placed seven conditions similar to GMCH building. At present, the entire set-up is scattered across the college campus. The existing administrative building has been built in an unplanned manner is also in dilapidated condition.