PUNE: Bhira in Maharashtra was the hottest place in India on Saturday with the mercury soaring to 43°C.

 Worse, the state currently has the highest number of hottest Met stations at present. The day temperature has raced beyond 40°C at 12 stations — Malegaon, Solapur, Bhira, Nanded, Akola, Amravati, Bramhapuri, Chandrapur, Gondia, Nagpur, Wardha and Yavatmal. 
 
 In contrast, the temperature surpassed the 40°C-mark only in a few places in Telangana, Rayalseema, Chattisgarh and Odisha. The day temperature in other parts of the country are relatively lower and no station in north India has recorded 40°C or above temperature yet.
 
 Met officials attributed the high day temperature to cloud-free skies in central India, including Maharashtra. It has been allowing an excess of solar radiation in parts of the state. Also, hot and dry winds are blowing into central India from Pakistan.
 
 The   (IMD) on Saturday forecasted heatwave conditions at isolated places over southeast Uttar Pradesh and east Madhya Pradesh. Some forecasters feel parts of Maharashtra may be experiencing such conditions soon.
 
 P C S Rao, scientist,   and Analysis Group, IMD-Pune, told TOI that the winds currently blowing into central India, including Maharashtra, are west northwesterly. “These winds are coming from regions of Kutch and adjoining regions, experiencing higher temperatures. These winds are hot and dry in nature and are adding up to the high temperatures observed in central India during summer. In addition, solar radiation increases in the northern hemisphere following the equinox on March 20, resulting in a rise in temperature in the hot weather season,” said Rao.
 
 Rao added that clear skies in central India were also leading to more incoming solar radiation, heating up the lower troposphere.
 
 Sources in the   said the temperature would rise further in the next few days. They said some more parts of west Madhya Pradesh and isolated places in Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada might also experience heatwave conditions in the next two days.
 
 According to them, several places in Marathwada and Vidarbha were experiencing heatwave-like condition with the temperature reaching 40°C. “The day temperature recorded in the rest of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and interior Odisha are also considerably above normal. The cloudless skies here are allowing constant flow of dry and hot northwesterly winds,” a Skymet Weather Services source said.
 
