GHAZIABAD: A day after after five robberies by bike-borne men in the city, nine persons, among them four students, including one who studies BBA at a private college in Sahibabad, and a private tutor from  , were arrested on Tuesday with a cache of stolen mobile phones, cash and bikes. 

 The arrests were made in Indirapuram, Kavi Nagar and  .
 
 The police said the men confessed to their involvement in various incidents of chain-snatching, mobile-snatching and bike theft over the past one year. 
 
 Two of the arrested men, Karan and Bobby, in their mid-20s, are already accused in at least eight cases at the Indirapuram police station this year, six of which pertain to robbery. “These men are the ones who had opened fire on a Hyundai Ascent car in front of St Thomas School in Indirapuram on May 7, after which they made off with a gold chain from a woman. They are also accused in cases of theft in Masuri and Noida’s Sector 58, and have been jailed in the past. Their accomplice, Deepak, is at large,” said SP (City) Akash Tomar.
 
 Cops have recovered Rs 15,500 in cash from them, apart from a .315-bore pistol, live cartridges and an Apache motorcycle. A 21-year-old man, identified as Shubham, was arrested near Shipra Sun City, while he attempted to steal a motorcycle with a master key. Shubham is doing BCA from CCS University in Meerut. He told the police he took to crime with a friend, Saurabh, who is at present in Dasna jail, to be able to live a lavish lifestyle.
 
 Three other men, Moin, Nadeem and Qasim, who were arrested with 21 stolen mobile phones, are studying in different colleges in Ghaziabad. All three are in their early 20s. Moin studies in a   school and has repeatedly flunked his Class XI exams for the past few years. Nadeem is a first-year BBA student of a private college in Sahibabad, while Qasim is doing a diploma in civil engineering from Monad University in Pilakhuwa. The three accused told TOI they don’t have any criminal history.
 
 “Nadeem, who appeared in a second semester exam on Tuesday, is the ringleader of his gang. He has told the police that he resorted to crime to impress his women friends with expensive gifts and outings. In the past one year, they had committed several robberies in Indirapuram, Sahibabad and other areas of the city. They used to mainly target women with cellphones in public transports. Nadeem was nabbed through an app installed on one of the stolen mobile phones. His photograph was automatically clicked and mailed to the mobile’s owner when he punched the incorrect unlock keys,” Tomar said. 
 
 Three other persons of a gang, identified as Jasbir, Gopal and Ashish, were nabbed in Kavi Nagar for stealing bikes. The kingpin, Jasbir (34), a graduate in Maths, has been a private tutor.
 
 
