KOLKATA: The   has decided to take   against several   that have been illegally constructed in the civic body’s jurisdiction between   and Rajarhat.

 According to civic authorities, about 30 to 35 such buildings have been identified on both sides of VIP Road. Earlier, the area was under the jurisdiction of the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. Notices have been sent to the developers and more surveys are being conducted. 
 
 “We will take necessary action against all such illegal highrises as per court instruction. We will also look into the provisions of West Bengal Municipal Act to take necessary steps,” said corporation mayor Sabyasachi Dutta. The matter was discussed in the civic body’s mayor-in-council meeting on Tuesday. 
 
 According to civic officials, action may include demolishing a buildings or certain portions. There are a number of such buildings where flats have been already allotted and many have moved in. “In such cases, arrangements have to be made to first to rehabilitate the flat allottees before any demolision process could take place. All the provisions of the West Bengal Municipal Act would be taken into consideration and we would strictly adhere to court orders,” said a civic official.
 
 Already, FIRs have been lodged against 33 such buildings at ward number 35, which comprises the bheri areas of Sukantanagar, Milannagar and Nabapally.
 
 Rapid and unplanned construction over the last few years without the civic body’s permission has created enormous pressure on the existing sewer and drainage lines. They are no more being able to bear the increasing load. Many of the buildings have encroached upon the canal that once flowed smoothly on either side of VIP Road. A large stretch of the canal has almost been filled to make way for parking lots and drive-ins to these buildings. With the sewer lines choked, heavy rain often results in waterlogging at many places like Chinar Park, Tegharia, Baguiati and adjacent areas.
 
 Officials said that the construction spurt took place ever since it was decided that the Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality would be dissolved. 
 
 “There was lack of supervision as a number of developers took the opportunity to construct highrises,” a civic official said.
 
 
