KANNUR: Kannur, always notorious for electoral frauds including booth capturing in the past, brought laurels to former district collector P Balakiran and district police chief P   for the smooth conduct of the last Assembly election, as they were awarded for the best electoral practices by the  . The awards were presented at a special function in New Delhi by Pranab Mukherjee on the occasion of the National Voters’ Day on Wednesday.

 The two officers in-charge of the district during the Assembly election were recognized for their innovative efforts for peacefully conducting the polls in the district which were earlier marked with violence, bloodshed and many cases of booth capturing. Balakiran, who is now the  , got the award for the ‘Best electoral practices - innovative measures’, while Hari Shankar, who is now the AIG (coastal security), got the award for the best security measures.
 
 Talking to TOI, Balakiran said the award was given to him for ensuring that the Assembly election were peacefully conducted.
 
 “With effective interventions, we succeeded in curbing the malpractices of open voting,” he said.
 
 The main menace in the district was the ‘open voting’, in which the voter is assisted by others to cast vote, and this was often misused for fraudulent practices. However, this time they used the disability census data to ensure only the eligible people used this facility.
 
 Also, there was webcasting with live monitoring to prevent booth violence, which also helped the smooth conduct of the polls, he said. Further, the election here was disabled-friendly with the use of ramps and the use of Braille script.
 
 This apart, the model set by implementing ‘green protocol’, effective use of IT and also making sure the polling officials are friendly to the voters, the election process had captured national attention, which ultimately won him laurels.
 
 Earlier, he had received national award instituted by the Ministry of Social Justice for outstanding contributions to the welfare of the disabled, for the project ‘Barrier Free Kannur’, he introduced in the district, which was later replicated in other places as well.
 
