NEW DELHI: 
  , who has in the past two days plunged the Aam Aadmi Party government into a crisis by alleging that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had accepted Rs 2 crore from Minister Satyendar Jain in his presence, was on Monday evening suspended from the primary membership of the party.

 The decision was taken by the political affairs committee, presided over by Kejriwal. The suspension came hours after Mishra met   (ACB) chief M K Meena and submitted documents related to the   to the ACB, complaining that Kejriwal was delaying the probe against former CM  .
 
 Mishra levelled fresh charges and dared the leadership to throw him out of the party. He alleged that a 
  for the family of Kejriwal's brotherin-law, S K Bansal. “Satyendar Jain told me that he had arranged a seven-acre land deal in Chattarpur for the Bansal family. He also fudged bills up to Rs 10 crore to benefit Kejriwal's relative,“ said Mishra, adding that he would 
  on Tuesday . Later, reacting to the PAC decision against him, Mishra said: “They could not go the whole hog. This only shows they lack courage.“
 
 In an unfortunate turn of events, Bansal had a stroke and passed away on Sunday night. He was cremated on Monday. Deputy CM Sisodia rushed out mid-way from the PAC meeting to express his disgust over Mishra “doing politics“over a man who had passed away. Bansal was a contractor and had executed some work for PWD. It had been alleged that he had been paid without the work being completed, a charge was denied by the Delhi government.
 
 Mishra ratcheted up his campaign against the party by alleging that during the Punjab polls, there was massive corruption in distribution of tickets, including liquor being supplied by party members. He alleged that Sanjay Singh was involved in lobbying for overseas funding of the party. He then claimed that he had been receiving death threats from those who are close to the chief minister ever since he made the allegations. “Kejriwal's weakness is his chair. He does not want to leave his chair. I want to ask Kejriwal if he will resign the day Jain is sent to jail in a corruption case,“ said Mishra. He said he was the only one in AAP who strongly opposed the   and the Modi government's policies. “There are four to five persons in AAP's PAC who are indulging in corruption.“
 
  The party hit back by alleging that Mishra was acting at the behest of the BJP. “A game of exploitation is being played against AAP.BJP has hatched a conspiracy against AAP through Mishra,“ senior party functionary Sanjay Singh told reporters, saying that the Karawal Nagar MLA was making one allegation after another without any substance or proof.
 
 “We want to ask if he claims to have been at the CM's residence on Friday and alleges that he 
  , why is he not sharing the time of the day when he went there,“ Singh said.
 
 Mishra reacted by saying that whosoever raised his voice against senior AAP functionaries was called a BJP agent. He asked the party to prove that he was in touch with BJP leaders, asserting that he would never leave the party, nor join BJP.
 
 Kejriwal, who had maintained silence on the entire controversy and was in mourning on Monday, tweeted on Monday night, “Truth will win. A beginning towards that will be made in tomorrow's special session of  .“
 
 At the press conference, Mishra issued an email id -letscleanaap@gmail.com -to which he invited people to complain of alleged corruption in AAP. “I challenge AAP to make public the files pertaining to decisions they have taken in the past two years. There has been no case of corruption against me so far,“ he said. Later, he took to twitter, with a taunt: “So Satyendar Jain is giving clean chit to Arvind Kejriwalji and Arvind Kejriwalji giving clean chit to Satyendar Jain.
 
