BENGALURU: Top Wall Street banks are asking Indian IT companies to change their staffing practices to comply with the   regime. The US President's 'Hire American' rhetoric is beginning to see some rumblings among US banking and financial services clients, who are asking their Indian IT partners to stick to what's good for the business.

 The implicit interpretation points to hiring more US citizens rather than shipping employees on H-1B or   to avert any potential curbs that could jeopardise business continuity. "There have been some rumblings from several major clients, namely banks such as   and  , but it's more precautionary at this stage. Most of them simply want to know if there is the ability to move more onshore in the event of greater H-1B restrictions," said  , CEO of US-based IT advisory firm HfS Research.
 
 Rod Bourgeois, head of research at  , said concerns about using H-1Bs are adding to more general fears about Trump's protectionist posture, and the industry definitely sees a trend toward US companies pushing IT services firms to shift their staffing to the US instead of using visa workers.
 
 Such a move is visible in the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) space already .Large Indian IT players get nearly 60% of their business from this sector. It counts Bank of America, Capital One, American Express, Citibank, Fidelity and   as customers that outsource contracts worth a few billion dollars. 
 
 Some IT firms have started putting out job descriptions in a few US locations (including in Charlotte, North Carolina) for tech analysts or technology architects that encourage US citizens and those authorised to work in the US to apply.
 
 IT firms are also specifying that they're not able to sponsor visas currently. "In fact, in response to this push coming from customers, we've seen evidence in recent months that IT services firms are altering their hiring and staffing plans to shift labour to the US.This trend is prone to continue, not only due to Trump's protectionist stance, but also due to digital trends demanding that services firms need more onshore-centric staff," Bourgeois said.
 
 The US administration's views on immigration had ruffled feathers in the $150-billion IT industry, turning the economics of an offshore strategy upside down - it would be at least 30-40% more expensive to hire a mid to senior resource in the US to comply with Trump's diktat. In comparison, the average salaries for H-1B visa holders was over $82,000, apart from a fixed cost of around $15,000 incurred for each visa issued. 
 
 This is more than 35% higher than the minimum prescribed wage of $60,000. But hiring onshore staff could impact the margins of IT firms in the coming quarters, especially at a time when clients are asking for deep discounts in the traditional business only to plough back the savings into newer areas.
 
 Clients are also testing the mettle of IT firms to demonstrate capacity in moving digital work onshore in areas like analytics, big data, artificial intelligence and robotics to navigate any disruptions in the wake of impending visa restrictions.
 
 Fersht said in the post-digital world, no one cares much about offshore as a strategy -- it has become part of the fabric of managing a global operating model, where operations leaders just tap into whatever global resource they need to achieve their desired outcomes. “This doesn’t mean that traditional “offshore” global delivery locations, such as India and the Philippines, are going bust overnight. But it does mean the playing field is levelling out as the need for emerging skills trumps the desire simply to reduce labour costs."
 
 
