BENGLURU: The tourism department's proposal to keep the city's two largest lung spaces -Cubbon Park and Lalbagh -open till midnight has met with a mixed response from the horticulture department. While the latter has rejected plans of opening up Lalbagh for night tourism, the department said it was open to tourism minister  's proposal to keep   open.

 “We held a detailed meeting with minister Priyank Kharge, and convinced him that Lalbagh may not be feasible for night tourism. We have, however, asked the tourism department to submit a concept note on how they plan to curate events at Cubbon Park,“ said horticulture department commissioner Prabhash Chandra Ray .
 
 Pointing out that Lalbagh was a botanical garden, Ray said, “It will be difficult to handle tourists there after 6pm. At Cubbon Park, we're not in favour of allowing entertainment activities in so me of the wooded parts.“ He further added that they were open to the idea of holding curated events being hosted at  , and similar spaces within Cubbon Park.
 
 Meanwhile, Kharge expressed his displeasure over “mindless“ opposition to the tourism department's plans, given that there was no concrete scheme regarding the kind of events that would be hosted at Cubbon Park yet. “We've also understood the difficulties involved in keeping Lalbagh open till midnight. In case of Cubbon Park, those opposing our proposal don't even know what we're going to do.We'll certainly come up with a concept note, and call all stakeholders for a discussion. Let them weigh the pros and cons before opposing the venture,“ Kharge said. Highlighting the government's concern for the environment, Kharge added, “We are not looking to disturb the ecological balance, as has been misconstrued by those opposing our move.“
 
 
 
 
 The horticulture department's opposition to opening Lalbagh for night tourism isn't surprising.It's a shot in the arm for walkers and environmentalists who feel the project will disturb the tranquility of the green space.Even in the case of Cubbon Park, the department has laid down a condition, though it has agreed to the proposal. While the idea of visitors having access to entertainment and food trucks in the lap of nature may seem fancy, multiple concerns need to be discussed -law and order, cleanliness, impact on environ ment -before the tourism department has its way. It should ensure no harm is caused to the flora and fauna of the lung spaces, considering the   is left with very few.
 
