BENGALURU: One should practice, and implement, what one preaches, urged Meenakshi Seshadri, wife of Karnataka agriculture minister  , at an interaction with the members of the mahila wing of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Wednesday.

 “I was talking at an event organised to spread awareness about garbage segregation at source, when someone in the audience asked me if I was doing the same at my home. The question made me realise that we preach many things, without practising them,” she said.
 
 The wives of three ministers, and the KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao spoke about their contribution to the success of their respective husbands. The event, organised as part of the International Women’s Day celebrations, saw the women respond to queries from women party workers, and share their experience. All the women emphasized the need to listen closely.
 
 A party worker requested Tabu, Gundu Rao’s wife, to convey the difficulties women faced in funding programmes. She said that while the male politicians received allowance, their female counterparts had to spend from their own pockets.
 
 The panel discussion, moderated by KPCC mahila wing president Laxmi R Hebbalkar, saw most questions being posed to transport minister Ramalinga Reddy’s wife Chamundeshwari. Stressing the need to acquaint oneself with each voter in the constituency, Chamundeshwari said, “I have been doing this since 1983, when Reddy became a corporator. The wife needs to be aware of the problems in the constituency, and also be the first critic. People approach me with their grievances, and I ensure that most of them are redressed by sending them across to my husband’s staff.”
 
 Asked if she would join politics, Tabu answered in the negative. “I will work behind the scenes,” she said. Forests minister B Ramanath Rai’s wife Shylaja said that the strain of politics wasn’t new to her. “I come from a family of politicians,” she said.
 
 Ramalinga Reddy’s daughter Sowmya Reddy told TOI that she was keen on contesting the 2018 assembly elections. “Initially, my parents were against my decision to join politics. Now, my father tells me that I’ll have to figure out how to go about politics by myself,” she added.
 
 
