Yuvraj Singh's 150 against England in the Cuttack ODI on Thursday wasn't must a match-winning knock from proven, seasoned campaigner who was making his umpteenth comeback. It was an effort which reminded us of what takes sports o a higher plane and makes it mo e than just physical endeavour or entertainment.

 It's not easy to make a comeback at this level time and again, especially if you do not have age on your side. And if you have battled a dreaded disease like cancer, then it is obviously even more arduous.
 
 Yuvraj had failed in the first ODI in Pune. He knew that another miss and the comeback would come unstuck. Besides, when he walked into the middle at the Barabati Stadium, India were 25/3. The pressure was immense but Yuvraj seized the moment and produced what must rank as one of the greatest knocks of his 16-year-long international career.
 
 The significance of the innings goes beyond the numbers as Yuvraj put together what was thought to be beyond him. It was heart-warming and inspiring and thus the applause was tinged with emotion.
 
 It was a reiteration of a lesson sport often gives us: Never say die.
 
 The knock was put into perspective when  , former England batsman, tweeted: “What a phenomenal achievement from Yuvraj!! Constantly overcoming adversity!! Brilliant.” Taylor knows a thing or two about adversity, having had to retire from the game at 27 last year with a heart condition.
 
 Yuvi reminded you of F1 driver   who fractured his skull after a crash at the 2009 Hungarian GP, had a titanium plate put into his skull only to successfully return to the circuit the next year. Then there was footballer Nwankwo Kanu, who underwent emergency heart surgery in November 1996 but returned to action five months later and won two Premier League titles with Arsenal.
 
 And of Barcelona's  , who had a large tumour in his liver operated in 2011. A week later, the French defender came on as a sub in the Champions League semis before playing a full game in the final against Man United.
 
 And of rugby legend Jonah Lomu, who kept on playing for All Blacks for six years while carrying a kidney disorder which ultimately killed him at 40.
 
 And of basketball great Magic Johnson, who came roaring back to the court even after testing HIV positive. He never stopped training and, in fact, returned fitter and stronger, winning the MVP in the 1992 NBA All-Star Game and the Olympic gold the same year.
 
 And of Ben Hogan, one of the greatest golfers of all time, who made light of a horrific car accident in 1949 to win numerous pro titles including many Majors. The accident had left him with several fractures and the doctors thought it unlikely that Hogan would ever walk again, let alone make a return to golf! These are but a few inspirational stories sport has offered us over the years. Yuvraj's is a modern tale of courage, tenacity and belief.
 
