Ropar: Four days after abduction of two minor boys was reported, the police here have recovered bodies of both the missing children and nabbed the step father who confessed to killing them allegedly for want of his own children.

 Police revealed that 30-year-old accused Ashok Kumar Pintoo, who worked as a skilled labourer, took the children before they could enter their school gate. The children were missing since September 25 when the accused took them on pretext of an outing near Sutlej river. Later, he allegedly threw them in a deep ditch near the bank of the river in Lodhi Majra village, around 6 km from Ropar.
 
 It was after thorough investigation that the crime committed by the step father of the children came to light. The accused is the fifth husband of the deceased children’s mother. He, along with the mother, had come to the police to register a complaint.
 
 A case of kidnapping under section 363 of IPC at City Rupnagar police station was registered following the statement of mother Rajni, who alleged that her two children Manav (10) and Shivam (6) had been missing since September 25 from around 8 am when they left for school.
 
 Police claimed that extensive search for the children did not yield any results initially. These children were from her previous husbands. She was staying with Ashok Kumar Pintoo of Ghaziabad, who was her 5th husband. Rajni’s first two husbands had died long ago while she left her third husband who was around 65 and used to physically assault her. She left her fourth husband but was still in touch with him. While Manav was the first son born to her as a special child with her second husband, Shivam was her second don born of the third husband.
 
 SSP Ropar, Raj Bachan Sandhu said, “Exploring various angles, we investigated all the previous relationships of Rajni for any possible motives and clues with the help of the available CCTV footage and mobile phone records. The statements given by accused Pintoo did not match with the tower locations of his mobile, on the day of the disappearance of the children. Physical location of Pintoo was also not corroborated by his employer at Sun City. Pintoo left home at 8 am but reached his employer at 10.30 am. This raised suspicion and we then investigated his mobile locations.”
 
 “Pintoo later admitted that he was responsible for abducting the children and eventually killing them. He led the police to wetlands adjoining River Satluj near Lodhi Majra village. Semi-de-composed bodies of both children were recovered from a deep ditch. He was arrested and charged with murder while the recovered bodies were sent for postmortem,” said SSP Sandhu.
 
 
