HYDERABAD: IT firms in Cyberabad may be well fortified on cyber security, but when it comes to security on the ground, the everbuzzing cash-rich IT hub needs to upgrade itself.
It has been observed since mid-2015 that criminals have changed a lot tactically . They are more agile, and better at driving and speed-biking. It also came to light that some of them are trained in the martial arts so that they can wriggle out of police grip.They are also more aggressive and desperate. Unlike in the past, they now attack cops more frequently, often with deadly weapons.
 
 Sample these: Last year, during an attempt to nab a gang running a fake currency racket at Shamirpet, a constable was indiscriminately shot at by criminals. In another incident in the   area last year, thieves fleeing in a car attempted to run over cops. Police were unable to intercept the vehicle.
 
 “Criminals are constantly changing their modus operandi. They are also physically fit, trained at using weapons and do not hesitate to mow down their opponents,“ said a senior police officer posted in Cyberabad.
 
 These change of tactics by criminals and the increasing count of terror links being traced to Hyderabad have made police and cash-rich IT firms in Cyberabad take a relook at their existing security systems. In fact, the commissionerate of the area carried out an exhaustive `tactical training' programme for constables manning the tech belt a few months ago, thus enabling them to tackle any unforeseen attack.
 
 During the last weekend, the same training was extended to security personnel in charge of the IT companies.“The idea was discussed at a meeting of 150-odd firms operating out of the area and most of them expressed a keen interest in initiating training. Given the current situation, it is extremely important that our constables and security personnel are well equipped and do not fall prey to the techniques of criminals,“ the official said.
 
 The training session saw close to 150 security professionals participate in the event, claimed to be a first-ofits-kind initiative rolled out in any IT belt across the country.“This initiative was discussed in various meetings of the   ( ). We have given guidelines and are also helping companies upgrade their security networks,“ said  , police commissioner, Cyberabad.
 
 Highlighting the importance of the three-day programme,  , secretary, SCSC said: “Strengthening security at the micro-level can improve response time and thereby reduce the damage caused at the time of an untoward incident.The recent exercise was extremely important as it addressed security concerns right at the company level.The training was very well received by firms operating out of the Cyberabad region.“
 
