LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party’s decision to drop its sitting MLA from Patiyali constituency in Kasganj, Naziba Khan ‘Zeenat’ has triggered resentment in the local cadre and Muslims as she was the only MLA from the   in  . They are particularly miffed as the ticket has gone to one Kiran Yadav, sister-in-law of   officer Pandhari yadav, who was secretary to the CM till very recently. Crying foul, her Zeenat’s supporters say that she was the only Muslim MLA in three districts. 

 Kaasganj is the place where world famous Urdu poet Amir Khusro was born and the Khan family had worked hard to rebuild and revive Khusro’s fading history in the district. “I don’t know what is my crime and why have I been denied ticket without any of my offence. Akhilesh Bhaiyya should explain this,” laments Nashi Khan, Zeenat’s daughter, while talking to TOI.
 
 Nashi says she had been called to Lucknow by the party two months back and promised ticket in place of her mother, but she got the shock of her life when she came to know that the party had fielded Kiran Yadav. Her candidature was announced in the afternoon of January 24, the last day of nomination when she had no other option except to ‘regret and lament’. “I have worked hard for Akhilkesh Yadav and covered him in his cycle tour also,” recalls Nashi.
 
 Local party workers say that Kiran Yadav is a non-political person and wife of IPS officer Anshuman Yadav and daughter-in-law of Pandhari Yadav, senior IAS officer who has worked as a secretary to the CM. At present secretary in housing department, he is facing CBI probe an alleged MNREGA scam that took place when he was Sonbhadra DM between 2009 and 2011. 
 
 “Both of them are campaigning in the the constituency and influencing voters with their power,” complains Nashi. Kiran’s father -- Devendra Pratap Yadav -- was a former SP MP. Two days ago, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav also went to the region and campaigned for Kiran. Nashi’s mother had won the Patiyali seat with over 50,000 votes in 2012. 
 
