New Delhi: The quiet routine in the Delhi Secretariat at Indraprastha Estate is unusual for a government always perceived to be in hypermotion. Many think this is the calm before the storm, with the Aam Aadmi Party’s constant clash with the central government in temporary freeze. When the party completes two years in power on February 14, with Arvind Kejriwal away in Bengaluru for medical treatment, it will likely be deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia who will hold forth on the achievements of his government — and on the relations with the new representative of the  : lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. 

 After two years of bitter sparring, which culminated in the sudden resignation of   as   on December 22, Delhi government is, as Sisodia prefers to put it, “optimistic” about working with Baijal. As for the way ahead in the post-Jung era, Sisodia cautiously calls it “the beginning”.
 
 Perhaps there is a willingness to work closely with the LG, having fought a high-profile battle with Jung in which the Kejriwal government constantly attacked PM Narendra Modi and BJP for what it described as an effort to obstruct administrative work in the capital. But the current equanimity could also be because the matter of Delhi’s governance is in the Supreme Court and both the centre and state are awaiting a judgment before coming up with new strategies. The centre drew first blood when Delhi high court gave the centre and the LG the upper hand in the city-state’s governance in August last year, but the Supreme Court’s view will hold the key to the future power equations and also how the   government leverages its demand for full statehood.
 
 The municipal polls, likely in April, will perhaps be a referendum on the performance of AAP in the two years since it assumed charge in 2015. In case of a victory, AAP’s pitch for giving more powers to an elected government will obviously become more strident. This will fit in nicely with its assertion that its plea in the Supreme Court is not about full statehood for Delhi but about recalibrating the high court view on the role of the LG as primary administrator of Delhi over and above the elected government. However, there are indications already that AAP will not discard the statehood issue anytime soon.
 
 Demarcation of powers has been the defining disagreement in the two years of AAP’s stint in power, with chief minister Kejriwal gaining notoriety for his constant invocation of PM Modi’s name on all points of conflict. Its political strategy has been to portray the state as the victim of an inimical central government. The impact of this posturing will be tested during the municipal polls, in particular, but also in the assembly elections in Goa and Punjab and later in Gujarat. The results in those states will prove whether AAP used the past two years profitably to create grounds for ascending to the national level.
 
 
