Nagpur: Expressing concern over delay in disposal of pending cases against undertrials, the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court made it clear that if there is an inordinate delay, the prisoner has the right to have a speedy trial. Justice Sunil Shukre made this observation while granting bail to two persons who were put behind bars since 2013 for allegedly carrying counterfeit currency. “In such cases, it would be desirable that the sessions judge convenes a meeting of all the additional sessions judges entrusted with the cases of under trial prisoners and impresses upon them the need for taking various steps to expeditiously dispose them,” he said.  He added that if it’s brought to notice of sessions judge by the other judges that the under trials are not being produced before their respective courts by jail authorities or investigating officers are not ensuring attendance of prosecution witnesses in response to the summons issued by the trial court, the sessions judge shall impress upon the commissioner or superintendent of police to personally ensure that such instances are not repeated.  “If such requests made by the sessions judge to police heads are not taken seriously, he shall inform it to high court so that appropriate action could be initiated in the matter,” the judge stated. Petitioners — Dhiraj Tarapure and Bablu Yunus Khan, both residents of Shegaon in Buldhana, were arrested on April 23, 2013, in connection with counterfeit currencies in now-scrapped Rs500 and Rs1,000. The duo were rounded up after a tip off and Rs6.98 lakh of was found in their possession.  After a charge sheet was filed on May 2, 2013, the case was being tried in Khamgaon Sessions Court. Through their counsels — Rajendra Daga and Anzar Mirza, they approached the high court on ground of inordinate delay in conclusion of trial underway in session court, as they were behind bars since over four years.  They contended that a maximum of seven years imprisonment can be awarded to them if found guilty, of which they had already served almost half, even before being convicted.  According to them, only 10 out of 24 witnesses, were examined in one and a half years.  During the first hearing, the high court issued notice to the Khamgaon judge while seeking his reply for delay in the trial. Even the judge’s reply was found to be unsatisfactory. Justice Shukre also found no reason for a two-year delay in framing charges after the charge sheet was filed as well as the time it took to examine 10 witnesses. While granting bail, the court asked the two accused to report to Shegaon police station weekly till the trial is over.