NEW DELHI:   open attack on senior   functionary and political affairs committee member,  , on Sunday, alleging that he was trying to take over the role of national convenor from  , has led to AAP MLAs publicly seeking action against Amanatullah, including his expulsion. They are using the social media to give voice to their outrage.

 While rumours of a letter signed by more than 30 MLAs seeking Amanatullah’s expulsion were doing the rounds all day, there was no official confirmation. The grapevine was also abuzz with talk that Kejriwal was very angry over Amanatullah’s remarks which the Okhla MLA didn’t disown on Monday. While there were tweets by AAP supporters, retweeted by MLAs, suggesting that Kejriwal was trying to find out who was “prompting Amanatullah to say all this”, the social media also saw assertions that “those who are behind this will not be spared.”
 
 Delhi minister Kapil Mishra’s interview to a vernacular daily on Sunday was being circulated with AAP MLAs retweeting it. Mishra had described Amantullah’s remarks as baseless and asserted that there was no rift between Kejriwal and Kumar Vishwas. Mishra had alleged that Amanatullah had worked against the party in the municipal polls. He demanded that the Okhla MLA should apologise for his statement.
 
 Amanatullah was in no mood to do so. Also a member of AAP’s high-powered PAC, like Kumar Vishwas, the MLA had on Sunday alleged that “Vishwas is calling MLAs to his place and telling them to either make him convener or join BJP, which is willing to give Rs 30 crore to each MLA….” Khan had also alleged that this was being done “at the behest of the BJP.” He added: “Four MLAs have been tasked with this. They take other MLAs to Vishwas’s place. Ten MLAs have told me this. Yesterday (Friday) a meeting of these four MLAs had happened at a minister’s place,” he had said.
 
 Kejriwal responded hours later, observing: “Kumar is my younger brother. Some people are showing there is a rift between us, they are enemies of the party. They should refrain from this. No one can separate us,” he tweeted.
 
 However, Amanatullah stuck to his guns on Monday. "I am raising my voice because I want to counter forces that are trying to damage the party from within." He challenged Mishra to prove his allegation that had had worked against the party. He claimed that four MLAs had met at a Delhi minister’s house.
 
 Amanatullah said that since Vishwas was a PAC member like him, he should have raised all these concerns within PAC. “What does it mean when you go out and speak out against the party, when you are a powerful PAC member who will be heard inside the meeting,” he asked. Khan alleged that all the turbulence being fuelled over the past few days was being done at the behest of BJP. Amanatullah said that for him only Kejriwal was the convener, and if anyone felt that he was a bigger leader, he or she could go out and fight independently and win.
 
 However, many AAP MLAs did not think Amanatullah was right in making the allegations and took to twitter. The food and supplies minister, Imran Hussain, tweeted that the Okhla MLA had "lost his mental balance".
 
 Burari MLA Sanjeev Jha said in his tweet that “Arvind Kejriwal is our only leader". Lakshmi Nagar MLA Nitin Tyagi retweeted his tweet. He also retweeted Kapil Mishra’s interview wherein the latter had demanded that Amanatullah should be removed from the PAC and expelled from the party for six months. Tyagi wrote saying, “Completely agree. There should be no other option.”
 
 Trilokpuri MLA Rajesh Rishi went tweeted that Amanatullah should apologise for his “remarks against Kumar Vishwas”. Janakpuri MLA Rajesh Rishi’s timeline too had retweets supporting action against Amanatullah. Chandni Chowk MLA Alka Lamba too joined the chorus.
 
