A few days ago, TV actors   and   lashed out at VJ Anusha for making fun of former's friend's English accent.
 
  This happened after Anusha and VJ Gaelyn mocked Kishwer's friends Rahul and Gurneet's accent on social media.
  
  So after this controversy, VJ Anusha finally came out on social media to clarify herself.
  
  
 
  
  Anusha posted a long post on her Instagram giving clarification on exactly what happened.
  
  
  
  To my loves... I guess I have stayed quiet long enough..And the undying support & love is forever appreciated from the bottom of heart. Being born in Africa, raised in the UK & mostly Australia.. I have actually lived most of my life in my mother land, it's funny anywhere I ever go or have lived, coming back here always makes me feel safest & at ease. So the fact that anyone made this about racial discrimination just because I have a different accent, isn't that racist too? In this 10 sec video we laughed at WHAT he was saying, it was nothing to do with accents, or English. When we mimicked him, again it was about WHAT he was saying!
  
  Gaelyn is like a little sister & a beautiful soul. Also the funniest person I know, so when she does impressions, it's unbelievably funny! She wouldn't hurt a fly. If you know me or have ever followed me, I am completely non racist, non judgemental & I dislike drama. I love to love & I see the good. So I am grateful to all of your comments good or bad because it made me proud to see the passion in everyone's heart and I hope you always use that to take a stand in everything you do or see, just don't be so quick to judge unless you genuinely knew both sides..I also deleted negative comments because you hadn't heard me out yet & I dislike abusive comments directed to anyone on my page and I do not abuse people.
  
  The reason I stayed silent for so long was not because of weakness but because I had only one concern, if it was true friendship & sentiments were hurt, which I'm not doubting they could have been, I only wonder why not pick up the phone and say, "Anusha this is hurtful to my friend pleae take it down immediately." Without second thought I would have & would have apologized profusely. Because my intention would NEVER to be hurt anyone, it's just not who I am.
  
  Also wouldn't this just hurt the guy in question more by publicixing it further? So for a while I was really confused. It just suddenly felt like it all got twisted and for all the wrong reasons, I couldn't understand it..Its almost like they were indulging in the hate and replying to only our supporters. Pushing past all of that, I would like to apologize to the boy in question, I'm sorry if you were hurt, you must know we found you hysterically funny, we laughed and watched your video so many times, with genuine clean hearts, that I can assure you. Saying that we would never want to hurt you and if you were, I am really sorry again..Lots of love.
  
  PS. I would also like to respong to the person that said we must have been high on something, for someone who's never touched a drug in her life, you have to realise laughter and fun can also happen because you are high on life and maybe ice-cream.
  
  She captioned the post saying "Love from me... xoxo"
  
  Anusha also gave the reason for being silent for long as it was true friendship and sentiments that were hurt.
  
  Earlier too, Anusha replied to Kishwer. She said, "Relax, we weren't making fun of anyone, we wouldn't do that...The video made us laugh...Wasn't meant to offend anyone. In another, she wrote: And we are both Indians! So please it was never about the accent, the video was funny, that's it! @kishwersmerchantt".
