Anyone who has ever tried getting their mom the 'perfect' Mother's Day gift will know that the concept does not exist. From flowers to personalized mugs and even that book she wanted to read, nothing seems enough. This is probably why many Delhiites are getting a little creative with their Mother's Day gifts this year by turning their moms into models and gifting them a makeover and professional photoshoot. On the other end of the spectrum, several young moms are opting for photoshoots with their kids on Mother’s Day to make the occasion extra special. 

  
 Anshuman Singh, a 19-year-old from east Delhi, has hired a professional photographer and stylist to do a glam shoot for his mother Anita, a homemaker. He tells us, "It's impossible to shop for your mom on Mother's Day, because it's like anything that you get her isn't special enough. So after years of disappointment, I decided to get creative and set up a makeover and photoshoot for her this Mother's Day. I'm sure she will feel special that way."
 
  Riya Anand, an advertising professional from  , has booked a mother-daughter shoot with a professional photographer this Sunday. She says, "It's perfect because this way, I can have a good memory with my mom and she won't get to say that my gift wasn’t personal or special, which is my biggest fear. And the cherry on the cake is that she will not just feel good, but look good too."
 
  
    prepping for her Mother's Day shoot (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The  , a Facebook community of Gurgaon residents, has hired a professional photographer, stylist, and make-up expert to give makeovers to 10 mothers and their kids and do shoots with them. Simran Chhabra, founder of the group, tells us, "The members of the group had been asking for something like this for quite some time and we felt that Mother’s Day was the perfect opportunity for this."
 
  Nidhi Lamba, a homemaker, who is going for her first shoot with her kids Jhanvi (14) and Pratinav (11), says, "My kids are too young to give me gifts like this, so I went for it myself. It is a Mother’s Day gift for all three of us."
 
 
  
  Dipika poses for the camera with her kids Vansh and Vanya (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The cost of the shoots begins from Rs7,000 and can go up to Rs30,000. Megha Jain says, "We usually prefer doing mother-child shoots at the house itself since it adds a personal touch to the shoot. However, if they aren't comfortable doing the shoot in their house, we ask them to choose a location that is special to them." Several photographers even do these shoots in studios. Nitin Arora, who has a studio in Gurgaon, says, "We have a resting room in our studio, where the mother and child can rest in between shots. For some shoots, a house setting or an outdoor location does not work and we need a studio." He is doing shoots for three mothers at his studio this Mother's Day.
 
  
  
 Photo: Megha Jain)
 
  
  
 
  
 Gunjan Chhabra, a photographer who is doing 10 shoots with moms this Mother's Day, says, "We have to make sure that we capture the emotions perfectly because that's what the shoot is all about. While the mothers are usually very conscious, the kids are more confident in front of the camera. However, when they face the camera together, the inhibitions go away."
 
  
  
 
  
 
