NAGPUR: Research on the effect of an ayurvedic drug on cancer has shown promising results in tests on mice, said pathologist Dr Vinod Shidham, who is currently working in the USA, on Sunday. He also announced plans to set up a cancer hospital and research centre as a gift to his native city Nagpur, with efforts underway to put together funds for the venture.

 Dr Shidham is professor of pathology, director of cytopathology, and director of cytology fellowship training program at Wayne State School of Medicine, Karmanos Cancer Center at Detroit Medical Center, Michigan, since seven years. He was in the city to inaugurate the chamber of   and Microbiologists (VAPM) on Sunday at   (IMA) new annexe building. During the inaugural ceremony, Dr Shidham’s father Dr BT Shidham was the chief guest, with local pathologist Dr Ajay Marawar, VAPM president Dr Rasika Gadkari, and VAPM secretary Dr Mohini Dave also present on the dais.
 
 Dr Shidham, who has also practised at   (GMCH) for 13 years, told TOI, “GMCH gets a huge chunk of cancer patients, with their numbers growing every year. When we talk about cancer, diagnosis is of primary importance. Unfortunately, the hospital does not have a proper system to carry out clinical trials. I have wanted to set up a hospital in the city and develop a strong system to carry out clinical trials routinely.”
 
 Dr Shidham said, “Within the hospital, my focus would be more on performing research. For this purpose, I am willing to donate money and will require some funds in addition along with some local helping hands, to make it a reality.”
 
 Currently, Dr Shidham is part of a unique research for cancer treatment using an ayurvedic medicine called ‘Rohitak’. He said, “There is a separate branch of alternative medicines, under which we got funds for the research. The medicine has been tested on mice for treating prostate cancer with good results; we plan to perform similar method for pancreatic cancer treatment.”
 
 He said, “Any tumour cell requires blood supply, without which it will die. Initially, we took out malignant tissue and allowed the tumour to grow. Then, using an ayurvedic medicine named ‘Rohitak’ on a tissue, we observed that the medicine does not kill the tumour but it is shrinking the blood vessels that pass through it. With no blood supply, the tumour dies.”
 
 Dr Shidham said, “Once we are able to get successful results on pancreatic cancer, we will be looking forward to perform clinical trials to get the treatment into mainstream.” He added, “I plan to continue similar research at the cancer institute I am planning for the city. If India starts to perform such clinical trials, the cancer scenario will improve.” 
 
