RANCHI: The associations of auto rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers decided to launch an indefinite strike, beginning February 13, to protest against government policies and its ‘atrocities’.

 In a joint meeting on Sunday, two auto rickshaw associations — catering to diesel and petrol — and that of e-rickshaw drivers decided to hold protests from Tuesday onwards before launching an indefinite strike. The strike, if it goes ahead, would coincide with the Global Investors’ Summit (GIS), to be held on February 16 and 17.
 
 Dinesh Soni, president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Auto Mahasangh, said: “The government policies of deciding the routes of e-rickshaws or not allowing autos without permit to ply in the city is anti-poor. To protest against these atrocities, we will begin our agitation from February 7 and will go on an indefinite strike from February 13.”
 
 As part of the agitation, drivers intend to gherao the   on Tuesday and burn the effigy of the city deputy commissioner, Manoj Kumar, the next day. The association decided to hold a Nukkad Sabha from February 9 to 11 and also plan to gherao chief minister Raghubar Das’ residence on the 12th. Thereafter, the drivers intend to go on indefinite strike. 
 
 “Around 23,000 autos are registered in the city but only 2,300 are allowed to operate. Traffic constables impose a fine of Rs 2,000 on auto drivers travelling without permit,” Soni, one of the members, said.
 
 “When we are not allowed to ply within the city limits, why are registrations still going on? The administration should stop the registration of new autos if they have a problem, and not take away our source of income,” he added.
 
 E-rickshaw drivers, on the other hand, expressed concerns with the route allotment plan. “E-rickshaws cannot operate on the outskirts and can only ply within the city limits. We ply on selected routes and the government cannot take away that benefit from us,”  , an e-rickshaw driver, said.
 
 Recently, the district administration has prepared a route chart for e-rickshaws plying across the city. According to the latest plan, 25 e-rickshaws will ply on each of the 24 routes allotted. Deputy commissioner Kumar, when contacted, said: “There are hundreds of e-rickshaws plying on very few routes. This is leading to congestion and chaos. Therefore, we decided to re-allot routes. .”
 
 
