BHUBANESWAR: While the state government earned plaudits from different quarters for smooth conduct of Asian Athletics Championship, the commissionerate police found itself in a spot of bother following allegation of assault on former Indian hockey captain   by a traffic cop near   on Saturday night.

 Tirkey was driving his way from   towards Unit-VI area in car when the traffic police officer allegedly stopped his car near the stadium to help a VIP vehicle pass smoothly. 
 
 “The police officer suddenly came to me and asked me to move my car towards roadside so that a vehicle of a VIP can pass. When I expressed difficulty to pass due to rush, the officer scolded me and assaulted me. I was pushed and heckled by the officer,” Tirkey told TOI. “I gave him my identity, but he kept on humiliating me. I was in tears after facing the misconduct in full public view,” Tirkey said. Tirkey said he will lodge a complaint with commissioner of police Y B Khurania. 
 
 A number of high profile personalities condemned the uncouth conduct of the police. Union trial affairs minister   said strong action should be taken against the erring cop. “It is not only an insult to a player of national stature, but an insult to an important tribal figure,” Oram tweeted on Sunday. 
 
 Former IPL chairman and Rajya Sabha member Ranjib Biswal condemned the police atrocity. “I strongly condemn humiliation and assault on Prabodh Tirkey,” Biswal tweeted. DCP Satyabrata Bhoi said the matter is being examined. “We are verifying the hockey player’s allegations,” Bhoi said. 
 
 In another development, the police started an inquiry into allegation of police misconduct to some visitors outside the stadium on July 6. “I was in a long queue before a ticket counter at the stadium. Suddenly, a policeman came to me and asked me to go out of the queue. Shocked, I asked him the reason. He along with some other officers dragged me out and beat me,” read a Facebook post of Sambit Mishra. “I was at a loss to know about the sudden provocation of the police personnel to target me,” said the victim, a Class XII student of a city-based public school. 
 
 Bhoi, who engaged an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) to inquire into his Facebook complaint, said the youth was at fault. “During investigation, we came to know that the youth jumped the queue and tried to purchase tickets. When others in the queue complained, police intervened and took him out of the ticket counter,” Bhoi said.
 
