NEW DELHI: The housing ministry will need about Rs 1 lakh crore in the next two-three years for meeting its target to provide assistance to the poor under the PM Awas Yojana or Housing for All scheme. The government has announced to provide roof to every urban household by 2022.

 Sources said the ministry has no option left other than raising loan from the market like that of long-term loan raised for irrigation by  . Though earlier there were talks that the ministry was mulling to set up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to raise the loan, now it has zeroed down on HUDCO, a public sector undertaking under the housing and  .
 
 “HUDCO has enough capability to raise loan. Once both the Centre and states put more money as its corpus for this special purpose, the agency can raise the required loan. This debt can be repaid with interest to the investors from subsequent budgetary allocation,” a source said.
 
 TOI has learnt that the housing ministry has disbursed about Rs 11,000 crore for nearly 27 lakh houses which have been approved since 1015-16. Target of approving another 16-17 lakh houses has been set for this financial year. The Centre clears financial assistance after the states forward proposals.
 
 Though originally the   had cleared the proposal for two crore houses by 2022, the target has been lowered based on the fresh assessments done by the state governments. Now the mission will cover a total of about 1.2 crore houses in the next five years.
 
 The housing ministry provides Rs 1.5 lakh financial assistance under its affordable housing scheme for the poor to each beneficiary. Rs 1 lakh financial help is provided to each beneficiary in case of in-situ development of houses replacing the slums. The government has also launched the scheme to provide Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 2.7 lakh as interest subsidy to the middle income groups. 
 
 “The in-situ development has not taken off well till now. We have calculated our fund requirement based on average assistance of about 1.5 lakh to each beneficiary for about 85-90 lakh houses, which we need to sanction in the next two-three years,” said an official.
 
 
