Navi Mumbai: A fire tender rushing to douse a major blaze that broke out in a 2,000 sq ft   stocked with spices on the Vashi   premises, on Sunday morning, toppled over while navigating a sharp turn. While it took 30 minutes to make the vehicle upright, firemen took eight hours to douse the blaze as water tankers made a total nine trips back to the fire station to refill. 

 At 10.38am, the   received an emergency call of a fire at the APMC   and despatched a fire tender and three water tankers. While speeding to the spot, the fire tender fell on its side as the driver took a sharp turn inside the market. “The fire tender’s windshield got damaged and the driver, Aryan Varu, sustained minor bruises. Firefighter, S T Thakur, who was in the fire tender also sustained minor head injury,” said Vashi fire station in-charge Prabhakar Gadhe. “Both were taken to NMMC Hospital and later discharged after treatment. A hydraulic crane was called from APMC traffic police and it took 30 minutes to put the fire tender upright.” By then, Airoli, Nerul and CBD fire stations sent one fire tender each to the spot. 
 
 “Prima face, the cause of fire is believed to be short-circuit. As it was a Sunday, there was no one in the godown, hence there were no casualties,” said Gadhe.
 
 Spice trader Abbas Ahmedabadwala, whose godown was gutted in the fire, alleged, “The water from the three tankers and fire tender was insufficient to douse the blaze. I had to call for two private tankers. The blaze has caused me damage worth lakhs of rupees.” One fire tender can carry 6,000-8,000 litres of water, while tankers can ferry 10,000 litres.
 
 But Gadhe said, “A water tanker becomes empty within 15-20 minutes of firefighting operations. As it was a big fire, we had to rush the tankers back to the fire station to be refilled—a 15-minute ride. We also called for two private tankers till the refilled ones returned and vacated the adjacent godowns as precaution. The fire was finally doused by 6pm, but we continued spraying water for cooling operations.”
 
