AHMEDABAD: With the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 ( ) coming into force on May 1, real estate developers are in a quandary over registering ongoing projects, as the Gujarat government, like many other states, is yet to appoint a state-level regulatory authority and frame regulations.

 According to the new Act, new and ongoing projects will have to be registered with the regulatory authority. Realtors have been given three months (till July 1, 2017) to get their projects registered with the authority.
 
 “A lot of confusion is prevailing among developers as there is no regulatory authority in the state at the moment. We hope the authority will be established soon. Real estate players are in dilemma as to where and how they should register ongoing projects. Where and when will they get registration numbers and which bank account receipts from existing and new customers should be deposited? These are some of the frequently asked questions by developers,” said a member of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI).
 
 Stating that the new Act will bring transparency into the real estate business, developers said the state government should begin a dialogue with not just developers but also consumers, and clarify its plans to create the required infrastructure.
 
 “Project related details will have to be uploaded on the website of the regulatory authority. The state will not only have to quickly appoint the authority but will also have to develop a website, hire manpower and set up an office among other things. We think this will take not less than a month. As a result, there will be a heavy rush among developers to register projects,” said a city-based developer.
 
 “Estimates suggest there are 5,000 to 7,000 projects (more than 5 lakh units) currently under construction, which means more than 5 lakh units are being built. Ahmedabad alone has 750-800 ongoing projects with some 70,000 units. All these will now have to be registered,” said Dipak Patel, president, GIHED-CREDAI.
 
 Developers also complained that the state government is has not yet notified sections 3-19 of the Act, which mainly concern builders. The state government must speed up the process of implementation to address the prevailing uncertainty among developers.
 
 
