KOLKATA: Anjali   was just 13 when she first successfully stopped a child marriage in her locality, Park Circus. “I rushed to the house of the young girl who was getting married to a man who was almost double her age. When her parents refused to listen to me, I went and summoned police,“ the Class-XI girl reminiscences.

 In the last three years since her heroic act, Anjali has saved a number of girls from such marriages. “In 2015 alone, I stopped nearly 50 child marriages with the help of my friends,“ she said hours after receiving an award under the Kanyashree Prakalpa from chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday. Every time she prevented a marriage of underage girls, she persuaded their parents to allow them to finish school. The success of her sustained campaign is well-reflected by the fact that there was not a single case of child marriage in her locality throughout 2016.
 
 Anjali says it is her own disturbed childhood that made her sympathetic to girls in distress.“My father abandoned me after my mother's death. My uncle and aunt raised me. I dropped out of school when I was in Class IV because everybody there would rebuke me all the time,“ she remarks. “Out of school, I would spend my time playing in the lanes and by-lanes of my locality. One day, some members of Child in   ( ) got me enrolled into a government school,“ she adds.
 
 Some 40 km away in North 24 Parganas, Tanuja Khatun has been fighting against child trafficking for quite some time.“Once I even physically stopped a man who was trying to take away children from our village to Delhi. Since then, he has never been anywhere in our area,“ the 18-year-old girl, who herself was rescued from traffickers by the Child Protection Committee (CPC) of Save the Children, says. “It's only girls like us who have suffered in life who can under stand the problem of child trafficking,“ she adds.
 
 On National Girl Child's Day in January this year, the state government conferred a special award on Tanuja in recognition of her bravery and contribution towards empowering other girls. “Until now, I have helped 32 girls from getting trafficked to distant places.I have helped 15 trafficked girls reunite with their families. I have also stopped four cases of child marriage,“ she says.
 
 Bengal tops the list of states with the maximum number of human trafficking cases. Of the 8,132 cases of human trafficking, 3,576 were reported from the state last year.
 
 “We can stop this only if we create awareness about child or human trafficking with the help of village heads,“ says   (21), who received an award from the state for her fight against human trafficking in 2012. “We are proud that we have girls like Anjali who have shown others how to overcome personal hardships and fight for fellow sufferers,“  , assistant director, CINI, says.
 
