TUMAKURU: Scrambling to unravel the mystery behind the death of three students of   near Tumakuru, the district police have sent blood samples and viscera for forensic examination to determine the nature of poisoning. 

 Preliminary probe indicates the possible involvement of an insider having added poison to the food. Police are also checking if any poisonous substance accidentally got mixed with the food.
 
 Tumakuru district hospital's Dr Dinesh said: "We suspect the presence of poisonous substances in the bodies of the deceased. We have sent the samples to the forensic science laboratory in Bengaluru and will be able to determine the exact cause of the deaths only after the report comes." According to Dr Dinesh, the report is likely to be out in less than a fortnight.
 
  A senior police officer said: "The   has been tasked with finding the nature of poisoning, identifying the poison and the percentage of it in the victims' bodies. Meanwhile, we are reconstructing the sequence of events that culminated in the deaths. This will throw up clues on what went wrong before the students sat down to have their dinner in the hostel." 
 
 Police have intensified search for school president K S Kiran Kumar and school secretary Kavitha, both of whom have been absconding. 
 
 Four persons, including the chief cook and assistant cook, were arrested on Thursday and produced before the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) judge at Chikkanayakanahalli. However, the court released them on conditional bail.
 
  
 
 
  The release of the four school staffers and the failure to nab Kiran Kumar and Kavitha irked parents and residents of Huliyar, where the school is located. A mob staged a demonstration in front of the police station, demanding immediate arrest of the accused. One of the parents, Yogesh, said: "On Thursday, police received complaint from our relatives as we couldn't even come to terms with the tragedy that struck us. We would like to lodge a complaint and want the cops to register the same and take action against the accused." 
 
 Meanwhile, principal Mahadevaiah said the school will be shut till March 12, and has requested all parents to take their kids home.
 
 
