VASCO: Vasco is one constituency where no MLA has been reelected consecutively for another term since statehood. Since 1999, the constituency has been represented alternatively by Jose Philip D’Souza and BJP’s Rajendra Arlekar, until the 2012 poll when Carlos Almeida was elected. 

 In 2002, Arlekar snatched the seat from D’Souza who avenged the defeat in 2007. Since Goa got statehood within the Indian Union, the Vasco seat saw Simon D’Souza and Wilfred Misquita take alternative turns to represent the constituency.
 
 The question now is whether the sitting MLA Carlos Almeida of the BJP will set a new record. Considering the candidates and parties in the fray, Almeida could be marching closer to the goal.
 
 The other candidates in the fray here are Saifulla Khan of the Congress, Jose Philip D’Souza of NCP, Manish Arolkar of MGP, independent candidates Gandhi Henriques, Krishna ‘Daji’ Salkar, and Chandrashekar Vast of Niz Goenkar and Loretta D’Souza e Sreedharan of AAP.
 
 Almeida, who is the KTC chairman, won the last election getting over 11,000 votes and a lead of 4,500 votes over his nearest rival. What helped him was mainly the BJP-MGP alliance and there was a strong resentment against the Congress-led government. This time, MGP has fielded its candidate, but it is not clear to what extent Arolkar will eat into the BJP vote. The major threat for Carlos is from BJP’s rebel candidate Daji Salkar.
 
 As soon as he became MLA, Almeida tried to sort out the Vasco fish market complex issue, but failed till the end of his term due to strong opposition from fisherfolk supported by his long time archrival, ex-revenue minister and two-time MLA Jose Philip D’Souza.
 
 Before his tenure could end, Almeida started the KTC bus stand project costing Rs 9 crore, and Khariavaddo fishing jetty project, costing Rs 103 crore. This was a demand by the fisherfolk community at Khariavaddo for over 40 years, which was finally granted by the BJP-led government. This is likely to fetch good votes for the saffron party as Almeida, through negotiations with government and MPT, saved houses of fishermen here, which were supposed to be demolished for the said project.
 
 Almeida promised to give Vasco a swimming pool complex through sponsorship by Goa Shipyard Limited. That government social schemes reached people, through his office, smoothly, will also benefit his popularity.
 
 The major cause of concern for BJP is the split of its workers between supporting Almeida and Salkar, who is a three-time councillor and ex-vice-president of BJP’s South Goa unit. Salkar is also a former chairman of the   (PDA).
 
 According to his workers, Salkar was removed from the post when his popularity grew. They hold Almeida responsible for Salkar’s removal from the post.
 
 Over a year ago, Salkar made his intentions clear that he will be contesting the upcoming assembly elections. This is not the first time that Salkar made his aspirations known of contesting the seat. In the previous elections, Salkar was seen making preparations to contest, but current defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who was then CM-aspirant, convinced Salkar that Almeida was a better contender for the Vasco seat. This time, when Salkar started canvassing indirectly for the seat, BJP started facing problems in Vasco.
 
 BJP workers, including a few office bearers and youth, started backing Salkar. With his support base growing, mostly from the youth, Salkar was confident of bagging the ticket. But, for various reasons, BJP renominated Almeida. As soon as Almeida was given the  , Salkar along with about 1,000 others, resigned from BJP and declared that he would be contesting as an independent candidate. Salkar is being seen as a dark horse in this election.
 
 State NCP chief D’Souza, is making a determined bid to make a comeback after a gap of one term. While his wife Nany D’Souza was a councillor last time, his brother Pascoal D’Souza is a two-time councillor. D’Souza also enjoys support from the fishing community. He started his campaigning by taking up issues of Vasco city like coal pollution, garabge etc more than six months ago.
 
 In the run-up to the polls, luck didn’t smile on D’Souza as Congress refused to have an alliance with NCP. A year ago, there were attempts made by Congress for ‘ghar wapsi’ of its leaders who were in other parties. 
 
 While Nilkant Halarnkar joined Congress, D’Souza continued to occupy the post of state NCP president. The thinking was that being like-minded parties, there would be an alliance between Congress and NCP, and that he would be the alliance candidate in the port town. But that was not to be and that, too, at the last moment which left him high and dry.
 
 Congress nominated Saifulla Khan, three-time councillor of  , who has represented three different wards, and is also former chairman of the minority cell of the Congress.
 
 The anti-BJP votes will be split between the two, giving much relief to Almeida. Arolkar, too, will manage to garner votes; firstly, as he is fielded by MGP and also due to the fact that he was elected unopposed in his ward in the last council election, although his wife lost the election in the ward in which she contested.
 
 Loretta D’Souza e Sreedharan, AAP candidate, was an ex-customs officer and also represented India thrice internationally in hockey. AAP has been getting support from the section that wants ‘clean politics’ in the state.
 
 While every election has seen candidates pledge to solve Vasco’s issues, yet the biggest menace for the port town is that coal pollution is a never-ending problem playing with the health of the people. Besides, whether the fish market project is yet to see the light of day is a question. The garbage treatment plant has become saturated and Sada locals and MPT hospital continues to suffer, as MMC comes under Vasco’s jurisdiction.
 
 With a slight edge in the given circumstances, it is to be seen whether Almeida will set a new record in Vasco constituency.
 
