NAGPUR: As the finance minster   spelt out a long list of proposals for agriculture and rural economy, businessmen with their eyes at the television screen, eagerly waited for the announcements on taxation. As a nearly two-decade-old practice, local businessmen have been gathering at the Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) hall to watch the budget presentation live each year.

 The eyes lit up as Jaitley came to the taxation part of the budget. There was a sudden buzz when the minister made the announcement on donations to political parties. The amount to be given in cash has been capped at Rs 2,000. “Will the budget have any major impact,” asked a businessman in between.
 
 “It’s not cash alone, politicians have to be given in kind. Anything — from the merchandize you deal in to liquor — is demanded,” reacted a businessman preferring not to be named. “What cash they are talking about, unnamed donations up to Rs 20,000 were allowed earlier. Dealings happen in modes other than cash,” he said.
 
 It’s a good budget for the agriculture sector was the general comment with Jaitley being appreciated for some of the moves on the direct taxes front.
 
 “There is no major move for job creation in the budget. Of course, some increase in consumption is expected on account of measures announced for the farm sector. However, the impact can only be seen in the long run,” said Atul Pandey, president of VIA.
 
 Pandey hailed the move to merge the railway budget into general budget. “There are so many other heads on which government spends money which are much more important than railways. However, for no specific reason railways had a separate budget so far,” he said.
 
 “The move to merge the planned and non-planned expenditure is also wise. There have been no announcements on the indirect tax front considering the impending goods and services tax (GST),” said Ashok Chandak, former president of the Institute of   of India (ICAI), and an indirect tax expert.
 
 “Not counting the interest credited on non-performing assets (NPAs) in taxable income will ease the burden on banks. At present, the borrower does not get the deduction on account of interest as the amount is not paid. But the bank ends up paying tax on it without actually deriving any income,” said Praful Doshi, former president of VIA.
 
 Chartered accountants present at the VIA meet appreciated the proposal on reducing the tax rate to 5% for income below Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 “The budget proposal on assessment of returns under scrutiny within 12 months as against 21 now will prove to be a major relief for the assessees. The rule will, however, be applicable for the assessment year 2017,” said Sanjay Moriani, a tax lawyer.
 
