LUCKNOW: Will an unfortunate incident like the demise of a legislator break the deadlock between the ruling party and the Opposition in the ongoing Budget session of  ? The entire Opposition is boycotting the remaining sittings of the session, alleging that chief minister   threatened them in his speech on early this week. 

 However, a day after the death of BJP MLA   on Sunday, when the house reassembles on Monday, it will meet only to make an obituary reference in his honour. "As per tradition, MLAs cutting across party lines attend the sitting to pay homage to a late member. Therefore, Opposition members would be morally bound to attend Monday's sitting," says a political observer, adding "but will it break the deadlock? It will have to be seen."
 
 Principal secretary of the state Assembly Pradip Dubey confirmed that a condolence meeting would be held and that was the only agenda for Monday. 
 
 "Members, including the Speaker and the chief minister, would offer their condolences to the deceased member," Dubey told TOI. The Opposition is boycotting the House after Yogi's July 19 speech. It is seeking the CM's apology for 'delivering a speech that was laced with threats', a charge which the government has denied. The parliamentary affairs minister, on the contrary, sought the Opposition's apology for its misbehaviour.
 
 So adamant is the Opposition on its stand that when Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit called a meeting to find a solution, they stayed away. This has led to an unprecedented situation in the House as the Rs 3.84-lakh-crore Budget is being passed without any debate or discussion.
 
 However, Pal's death has put them in a piquant situation. If they boycott Monday's condolence meet, it would put them in bad light, and if they join the House, even for condolence, it would be difficult for them to give the boycott call once again. A seizable group in the Opposition is of the opinion that the condolence meeting has offered them an opportunity to break the deadlock gracefully. Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary told TOI that a final decision on attending the condolence meeting would be discussed with other parties on Monday morning. Aradhna Mishra of the Congress party told TOI that personally, she was of the opinion that members should attend the session to condole the death of the honourable member of the House.
 
 The Budget session is to continue till July 28. 
 
