BHOPAL:   the Dalai Lama advised Madhya Pradesh government to sow the seeds of happiness among the children of kindergarten, schools and colleges. State’s happiness department must work to ensure happiness from the instittes, said the spiritual guru.

 The Dalai Lama was in the state to participate in the ambitious “Namami Devi Narmade” on Sunday at village Turnal in Dewas district.
 
 Delivering a speech on the art of happiness at a packed Vidhan Sabha auditorium later, the Buddhist spiritual leader said, happiness and peace should come from within. “I learnt it from common sense,” he said.
 
 The auditorium was filled to its capacity and extra chairs were placed outside it and LED screens were installed so that audience do not miss out on the happiness mantras imparted by the spiritual guru.
 
 “Modern education is oriented around a materialistic way of life. We should ask ourselves if it is really an adequate basis for a happy society,” he asked, with a broad smile on his face.
 
 The Dalai Lama spoke about international conflict, inter-religious tolerance, caste system, containment and materialist life among others and correlated them with happiness.
 
 He revealed that for the past few years he had been developing a curriculum on happiness with an American university. “Hopefully the first draft will be out soon,” he told the audience comprising men, women, teenagers and Buddhist monks.
 
 In the absence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, MP Vidhan Sabha speaker Sitasharan Sharma, finance minister Jayant Malaiya and cooperative minister Vishwas Sarang were present on the dais with the spiritual guru.
 
 He said he had learnt his first lesson of happiness from his mother. “I never found a sigh on anger on her face. Never.”
 
 When one is angry one doesn’t see the whole picture. Quoting quantum physics, the spiritual leader said an angry person has not been able to see the true picture. “When you are angry, what you see is not the correct picture of the situation. Which is why when the phase of anger is over, one doesn’t find the situation the same as when he had been angry,” he said philosophically.
 
 “I am a half monk and half scientist,” he said.
 
 Talking about the caste system in India, he said, “It is a social evil. Cutting across the religious lines, the spiritual leaders of India should come out with one voice to get rid of the social evil that started long back, he reiterated.
 
 He said that India is known for its religious harmony and the religions that came from outside the country are respected. “Even the small group of Parsis living in Mumbai have also grown and given us people like Tata and field marshal Sam Manekshaw”.
 
 “World does not need materialistic education but it require love and friendship. India is the only country in the world that has the capacity to teach the world love and emotions,” said the spiritual leader addressing the gathering at on the banks of Narmada at Dewas.
 
 Dalai Lama appreciated the efforts of the state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan towards conservation of river and environment. He was accompanied by the chief minister Chouhan, his wife Sadhna Singh, education minister Deepak Joshi and other political leaders.
 
