BATHINDA: With only three days left for the Punjab assembly elections, campaigning took a shriller note on Tuesday with all three main political parties in the poll arena taking on each other through usage of harsh words. Aam Aadmi Party national convener   turned out to be the common punching bag for both Punjab Congress president   and SAD president Sukhbir Badal, who were in Malwa hinterland, campaigning for candidates of their parties. While Amarinder and Sukhbir termed Kejriwal as hand-in-glove with extremists, Kejriwal in return accused them of having joined hands with the motive of stopping AAP from gaining power in the border state. 

 Taking on both, Kejriwal said, “Both Amarinder and Sukhbir fear AAP onslaught and so they have joined hands to save each other and stop AAP from gaining power in Punjab. But people of Punjab have understood the unholy alliance and will reject both.” He said that NRI Punjabis were already campaigning for the party in the upcoming state Assembly elections, and that terming them as “radical elements” by the Badals was uncalled for.
 
 The AAP chief was in the city to hold a road show in favour of party candidates. He said Punjabis residing abroad were concerned about the future of Punjab. “Punjabi NRIs are landing in the state to campaign in favour of AAP voluntarily because they feel that both Akalis and Congress leaders have been looting the state for decades without any concern for the state. Only AAP can bring the debt-ridden state back on track,” he claimed. 
 
 He said the Punjabi NRIs were hardworking and sincere, who had earned name and fame abroad by working day and night while the “actual radicals” were those who had ruined the state by patronising drug, land, sand, cable and transport mafias. “Badals have amassed huge wealth by looting Punjabis while businessmen, traders and farmers are running into losses,” he said. Businessmen were migrating to other states while farmers were being forced to commit suicides, the AAP leader maintained.
 
