SHIMLA:   chief minister  , who earlier was claiming that it is not possible for any government to give unemployment allowance, finally announced to give it by making a provision of Rs 150 crore in the budget estimates for 2017-18. Opposition   has, however, questioned the intentions of government for making the announcement right before the elections.

 In his budget speech in the assembly, Virbhadra said, “I have considered the demand of unemployment allowance and I am pleased to announce that unemployed youth having class XII qualification or above would be granted allowance at the rate of Rs 1,000 per month. Disabled unemployed youth would be given Rs 1,500 per month.” He added that the allowance will be given by next financial year and further guidelines for eligibility will be issued soon by the government.
 
 Speaking outside the state assembly, leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal said the announcement was made with the sole intention of fooling voters once again. He said before coming to power in 2012, Congress had promised unemployment allowance, but for last four years Virbhadra remained silent on the issue. Dhumal said earlier the chief minister had claimed that financial position of state does not permit to give the allowance but now before the coming election, he has made the announcement realizing that by the time guidelines would be framed, model code of conduct would be enforced. “It is nothing but an attempt to cheat the youth, but this time ploy would not work for Congress,” he said.
 
 Sources said Virbhadra was under pressure to announce unemployment allowance, as promised in 2012 manifesto, not only from opposition BJP but from his own partymen including state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, transport minister G S Bali and Rajya Sabha MP Viplove Thakur. In the cabinet meeting held on March 1, roadmap was prepared to make the announcement. Bali had even announced to hold a rally in Nagrota area of Kangra district on March 26 in case, but the rally is likely to be cancelled in the wake of the announcement. 
 
 Now, Congress government is hoping to fulfil its ‘Mission Repeat’ dream as state has around 8.25 lakh educated youth registered with the employment exchanges in the state. But, Virbhadra has made it clear that those getting skill development allowance would not be eligible for unemployment allowance.
 
