NEW DELHI: A gang of criminals that committed burglaries at around 40 schools in   in the past six months was busted on Wednesday. Incidentally, this is the same gang that had committed the sensational robbery at Holy Child Auxilium School in  's   two years ago. After getting released on bail, they got back to the crime. 

 The gang members - Deepak (21), Sunil (22) and Babloo (21) - know each other for the past three years. They targeted most of the schools in the last four months due to the ongoing admission season.
 
 "After a series of robberies were reported, a team led by ACP (operations) Rajender Singh was constituted and Deepak was nabbed from a bus stand at Majnu ka Tila. Singh's team had also busted the gang two years ago," said DCP (southwest) Surender Kumar.
 
 Deepak confessed to his crime during interrogation and revealed the names of other gang members following which Sunil and Babloo were arrested.
 
 "The other two robbers were caught after a tip-off received by a team led by inspector (special staff)   and SHO Dwarka (north) Jasmohinder Singh. Four other gang members are still at large. Raids are on to nab them," Kumar said.
 
 The robbers would recce their targets in two Alto cars during the daytime to see if the area was isolated. They would strike between 2am and 3am. The gang always deactivated CCTV cameras before striking. They also took away the DVRs and injured the guards if they tried to obstruct them from committing the crime.
 
 "Babloo was the gang leader and chose the targets. After reaching the school boundary wall, one of them would jump inside and inform the others about the location of the guards. They always tried to slip into the schools from areas that were not covered by CCTV cameras," said a senior police officer.
 
 After overpowering the guards, they would enter the school office by breaking the locks. They would switch off the CCTVs and DVRs to ensure no clues were left behind for the police. They would then flee with the cash found inside the office.
 
 "After committing the robberies, the gang members returned to their houses. They met the next day to distribute the looted cash and valuables among themselves and splurge it on women and parties," said the officer.
 
 
