IDUKKI: The agriculture department will implement low water usage in winter vegetable farming. As part of the project, officials of the central government-approved agency ‘Wapcos’ members visited the   areas at Kanthalloor and Vattavada last week.

  Wapcos officials inspected the agricultural methods and various types of water usage in the winter vegetable farming. They interacted with winter vegetable farmers at Kanthalloor and Vattavada and collected details of irrigation systems used in the area.
 
  Earlier, the state government agency Jalanidhi had conducted a detailed study about the ground water system in Idukki. Jalanidi officials shared the details of the water availability in the district with Wapcos officials and checked the water usage and availability of the special agricultural zone declared area.
 
  After the visit, Wapcos officials and agriculture department officials held a meeting on Friday at Munnar Horticorp office. 
 
 Agricultural department director  , joint director Janardanan, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran, Munnar wildlife official Siby, Devikulam Sub-collector Sreeram Venkitaraman, Idukki District Principal agricultural officer P G Ushakumari, Devikulam block agricultural zone special officer N S Josh, Vattavada Sheetakala Pachakari Vipanasangam presidnent Jayaprakah and Kanthalloor Sheetakala Pachakari Vipanasangam presidnent K A Mohandas attended the meeting.
 
  Winter vegetable farmers in Kanthalloor and Vattavada area are facing a tough season with low water availability. 
 
 Most of the water sources in these are in the custody of forest department which are allegedly creating hurdles in water distribution.
 
  "There are five government farms in the new low water usage farming project and the Devikulam special zone is also included in it. At the earliest Wapcos officials will submit a detailed project report to the government and the project will be implemented soon," said N S Josh, special officer, winter vegetable development special zone.
 
