NEW DELHI: A quarter century ago, the   was faced with an NGO's plea seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against sitting   judge Justice V Ramaswami. The NGO had accused him of writing letters, in which he made "sweeping allegations" against judges who were part of a committee inquiring against him but the court refused to entertain the request. 

  An inquiry panel headed by Justice P B Sawant was set up by   in consultation with the then   after a motion for Justice Ramaswami's removal was introduced in the House. While the inquiry was on, Justice Ramaswami wrote a letter on January 21, 1992 making "sweeping allegations against certain judges and the judiciary". In a subsequent letter on March 28, he explained the context in which he had written the earlier letter. 
 
 The panel held Justice Ramaswami "guilty of wilful and gross misuse of office, purposeful and persistence negligence in discharge of duties, moral turpitude by using public funds for private purposes in diverse ways and reckless disregard of statutory rules which brings to disrepute high judicial office and dishonour to the institution of judiciary and undermines the faith and confidence which public reposes in administration of justice".
 
  The Parliament then took up the motion for his removal as SC judge, the first of its kind in the country. But the motion, which required two-thirds votes of MPs present, fell through in 1993 as   MPs abstained from voting. 
 
  However, then CJI   withdrew judicial work from Justice Ramaswami. No direction was ever issued by a higher court stripping a sitting judge of judicial and administrative work as done by the SC in the case of Justice C S Karnan. 
 
  In a petition filed in 1992, NGO 'Sub-committee on Judicial Accountability' had requested the SC to initiate suo motu contempt proceedings against Justice Ramaswami for writing the January letter. 
 
 A bench of then CJ M N Venkatachalliah and Justice A M   and Justice Kuldip Singh declined to entertain the plea. It observed, "We feel that a lot of misunderstanding could have been avoided if the letter had not been written. We are unhappy that it came to be written. We while expressing our unhappiness about the episode, however, think we should decline in the larger interest to suo motu institute any proceedings for contempt against Justice V Ramaswami."
 
 
