Kolkata: The blaze that broke out at   on Thursday laid bare the hotel’s rickety fire-safety preparedness. But on the paper, the hotel did have a no-objection certificate. And the mandatory fire   which was renewed two years ago. But how did the hotel manage to get all statutory clearances? According to sources, getting a licence is not really difficult if one is willing to shell out a few thousand bucks.

 When TOI visited a number of hotels in central Kolkata on Friday to get an idea on how the NOCs and then the licences are issued, a senior director of a hotel summed it up: “If the licence fee is as nominal as Rs 800, we need to pay five times of that amount to the touts.” 
 
 One of the hoteliers at   was in for a rude shock when he refused to go through the ‘proper channel.’ “I had invested a lot on the safety features not to impress state officials but to ensure safety of the boarders. Many of the gadgets I installed were imported ones. But they kept harassing me in their perpetual quest for faults with the system. Finally, I had to bow to their system of ‘proper channel’ of paying ‘speed money’ to get the  ,” he said.
 
 The process of inspection, fire brigade sources admitted remains sloppy for serious dearth of man-power. “There are 6-7 inspectors for issuance of NOCs and equal number of inspectors for license for the entire state. How could you expect one inspector to carry out inspections of two or even three districts?” said a source. So, to get the licence, applicants often have to go back to the “proper channel”.
 
 There are instances galore when applicants from far-off places have to arrange vehicles to get the inspection done. “How could you expect to submit an adverse report after availing conveyance and hospitality of the applicant?” wondered a source. 
 
 There are some   (annual maintenance contract) agencies who take care of everything — from arranging inspection, paying ‘speed money’ and obtaining licence — for the establishment for a fee. Government officials maintain a good relation with these agencies. These agencies collect the money in the name of AMC and forward a portion to officials, removing risk of collecting money personally.
 
