BHOPAL: The ‘mass teaching day’ to be observed on January 28 where chief minister, his cabinet colleagues and eminent personalities were to teach primary students of government schools for an hour, has been postponed to February 15 due to chief minister’s other engagements. This is the second time that the event has been postponed.

 “There is no doubt that the unique event will motivate and inspire students. But it has been postponed to February 15 from January 28 due to reasons best known to the chief minister's office,” said minister of state for school education  .
 
 He said the event was organised in 1.21 lakh schools across the state, where eminent personalities were invited to volunteer as a teacher and encourage students to attend school regularly and fulfil their dreams.
 
 Sources in the department said the programme was earlier planned for January 12 but. But owing to Republic Day preparations, it was postponed to January 28, coinciding with the birth anniversary of freedom fighter and educationist  . 
 
 “But as chief minister is occupied, the programme has been postponed to February 15 ahead of the budget session of  ,” sources said.
 
 The government claimed that one lakh volunteers would be registered for the event as required across the state. However, the government has already roped in 90,000 motivators, who will initiate the work. 
 
 Sources said the event seems to have postponed due to poor registration as there are problems in the registration through online portal. Besides, several dilapidated school buildings have not been repaired due to paucity of funds.   sent proposal for the appointment of 40,000 teachers, but only 10,000 were sanctioned due to non-availability of the budget. The state government, however, ruled out any major reason for it.
 
 “There seems to be no problem with the online portal as several people registered their names since January 20. Still, those interested can register manually with the department officials,” said the minister.
 
 As of now, only 2000 people have been registered on the MP portal, including the chief minister and seven of his cabinet colleagues, said the officials of school education department.
 
 Bureaucrats, other government employees and eminent personalities of society — doctors, engineers and lawyers — have registered for the programme, named ‘Mile Banchey Madhya Pradesh’. The volunteers will interact with primary students and read a chapter from books available in the library. The aim is to generate interest among children towards reading.
 
