MANSA: With an extensive damage to the cotton crop in 8,125 acres of 20 villages in Mansa following heavy rains and subsequent water-logging, the state agriculture   issued an advisory to the affected farmers on Thursday, asking them to uproot cotton and cultivate basmati.

 There has been 100% damage in 6,000 acres while 50-75% damage has been reported in another 2,125 acres of the land under cotton cultivation. The district administration has sought directions from the state government regarding any compensation payout to the aggrieved farmers.
 
 Water had accumulated in the fields after rains lashed the region on June 29 and 30. The most affected villages were Makha, Gharangna, Dullowal, Kot Dhamu, Bhamme Kalan, Jhunir, Nangal Kalan, Jawahar Ke and Phaphre Bhai Ke.
 
 Cotton has been sown in over 3.82 lakh hectares in Punjab, and in Mansa alone, the area under the fibre crop is 86,000 hectares. “Our teams visited the affected villages on July 11 and 12. They recorded an extensive damage to the crop in 20 villages as rainwater could not be drained out from the cotton fields. We have recommended that farmers cultivate basmati as enough paddy may not be available for the entire area where cotton crop has been damaged,”   agriculture department director J S Bains told TOI.
 
 State farm department’s joint director Sukhdev Singh, who visited the affected villages, said the percolating capacity of the soil was very less therefore water kept accumulating. We have recommended construction of cavities (water recharge wells) in each of these villages to overcome waterlogging problem and save crops from getting damaged in future.”
 
 Jawahar Ke farmer Krishan Singh said, “I had sown cotton in four acres. It has been completely damaged. Now, I will have to again spend money on sowing basmati.”
 
 Farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Mansa unit chief Ram Singh said the state government should provide compensation to farmers whose crop has been damaged due to rainwater.
 
 Mansa deputy commissioner Dharampal Gupta said there was no denying the fact that cotton in nearly 8,000 acres had been damaged due to rainwater. However, as the crop was sown only a little while ago, there was not much loss to farmers. “The administration, however, has written to state government seeking directions on compensation to the farmers,” he said.
 
 Jassid spotted, farmers cautioned
 
 Bathinda: Punjab agriculture department has advised farmers to be vigilant against spread of jassid on cotton as the pest has been reported on the crop in some parts of Mansa, Fazilka and Muktsar districts. Department officials said the reason behind jassid attack was hot and humid weather conditions in the last few days. The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana and state agriculture department have asked the farmers to check for the spread of the pest and keep an eye on the cotton plants.
 
 
