WASHINGTON: “We like war because we are good at it! You know why we are good at it? Because we get a lot of practice. This country is only 200 years old and already we have had 10 major wars. 

 We average a major war every 20 years in this country, so we are good at it!” the comic social critic   said, while ridiculing American war mania during the first Gulf War, adding, “Just as well because we are not very good in anything else anymore. Can’t built a decent car, can’t make a TV set or VCR worth a f***. Got no steel industry left, can’t educate our young people, can’t get health care for our old people, but we can bomb the s*** out of your country!”
 
 That withering critique of Washington’s eagerness to jump into wars is being recalled in sections of America as the Trump administration, backed by lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, is cranking up its war machine, this time against Syria, even as critics are reminding it of the dreadful error of judgment that sucked the US into a needless war in Iraq. 
 
 Remarkably, the country’s left liberals are finding common cause with the alt-rightists in opposing the intervention in Syria.
 
 In the middle of the raging debate is Democratic congresswoman  , a self-professed Hindu-American lawmaker, who has irked both the Democratic and Republican establishments by questioning Washington’s narrative, including its charges that Syria’s Bashar-Al   used chemical weapons against his own civilians, while reminding everyone of the allegations against   and his non-existent weapons of mass destruction that led the US into the costly war in Iraq. 
 
 Calling Trump’s bombing of Syria reckless and unconstitutional, the lawmaker says she is skeptical of allegations against Assad.
 
 Gabbard had already invited scathing criticism from Washington’s political elites by travelling to Syria and meeting Assad several months ago without informing the US House Speaker or the leadership of her party. 
 
 Her latest salvo has ignited another firestorm in Washington. Some of Gabbard’s own Democratic colleagues are demanding her expulsion from the party.
 
 Among those who have taken Gabbard on publicly is Neera Tanden, a Clinton acolyte and president of the thinktank Center for American Progress, who tweeted, “People of Hawaii’s 2nd district — was it not enough that your rep met with a murderous dictator? Will this move you?” On TV, Gabbard has challenged conventional wisdom even as pundits, including Trump critics such as Fareed Zakaria, are gushing about how he has suddenly become “presidential” with his decisive action in Syria.
 
 Evocative of Carlin’s mockery of the good ratings that war brings to TV, Sam Sacks, a Washington podcaster pointed out that “From MSNBC to CNN, Trump is receiving his best night of press so far. And all he had to do was start a war.”
 
 On her part, Gabbard is swimming against the tide.
 
 Pressed on her opposition to the war by Wolf Blitzer of CNN, Gabbard snapped, ‘’Last time I checked, Wolf, Congress has the authority and responsibility for declaring war.
 
 Whether the President or the   or the secretary of state say they have the evidence the fact remains that they have not brought that evidence before Congress, they have not brought that evidence before the American people and have not sought authorisation from Congress to launch this military attack.’’ The intervention is also opposed by extreme right-wingers who have otherwise backed Trump on various issues.
 
 In a curious twist to the anti-war saga,  , a white nationalist who coined the term “alt-right”, has gone so far as to hint he might support Gabbard if she runs for the  . “Tulsi Gabbard 2020 #Trumped,” he tweeted cryptically.
 
