CHANDIGARH: Whether it becomes IIT-Chandigarh or not, PEC   of Technology will have to change its name and, in the process, it may lose its identity.

 That’s because, even if it does not get the IIT status, the Sector 12 engineering institute will have to go back to its older name,  , due to recent guidelines issued by the Union ministry of human resource of development (MHRD) that debar deemed universities from using the word “university” in their name.
 
 The only change would be that   would now be allowed to write “a deemed to be university” in brackets after Punjab Engineering College.
 
 Marketing experts say when a product or service changes its name, it affects its marketing, positioning and awareness, and the same will happen with PEC. The consideration to change its name from   back to Punjab Engineering College comes after the Union ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) issued guidelines for deemed universities that said that such institutes cannot use the word “university” in their name. If changed, PEC University of Technology will revert to its earlier name, Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be University). “The name change will certainly impact branding, but there are two aspects to this: one is for the common people and the other is for stakeholders of PEC. Those associated with PEC will be kept in the loop if the name is changed. But, for the common masses, it is going to create confusion,” said Prof   S Singh, associate professor of marketing at Indian School of Business, Mohali.
 
 For engineering aspirants, it won’t make much difference because aspirants always remain informed about the educational institutions they are targetting, so as far as the stakeholders are concerned, there would be little impact of the name change, added Siddharth.
 
 If its name is changed, PEC will have to create market identity with the new name. “Once this educational institute changes its name, it will have to announce it so that the masses know about the change. There will be change in the logo since the name is changed. Hoardings and other forms will change too. Moreover, before they approach companies for placements, they will have to write an email informing them only the name of the institute is changing,” said marketing expert and IIM-Lucknow alumna Ruchi Singh.
 
 There is no mandate to change the URL of the website of the university. Ideally, it should be kept as it was initially, since students seek information about admission through the website. But, eventually the URL will change have to change the name of the university.
 
