For the past couple of years,   has been releasing a romantic single on  , and this year, too, fans can expect an addition to this series. 'We released  's audio on February 14, 2014. And the next year, it was Enakenna, followed by   last year. So, the date has become special to me and I always try to make some space for my independent music,' starts off Anirudh, who adds that even though everyone has been asking him if he is doing something for this Valentine's Day, he did not want to make any announcement as he wanted to release it as a surprise.

 He says that the new single will be an extension of his romance series, and will be a little progressive, reflecting contemporary romance and relationships.'Enakenna was about someone lost in love, but this year's concept is a little futuristic -a duet between ex-lovers who have moved on in life. They are not feeling bad about the breakup, and are like, `I've moved on, and I'm happy; I hope, you, too, are'. It's more a representation of how relationships are in the present day ,' he elaborates.
 
 So, did this song come out of a personal experience? 'There is no personal background,' he guffaws, 'In today's age, most people would have gone through love and breakup, and would have had lovers whom they did not end up with. And they are cool about it, preferring to think about the future than dwell in the past. So, I wanted to capture this mindset -of how the idea of romance is moving with the times -through this song.'
 
 He has sung the song with  , who 'used to be ANI in a band here, and is now in Mumbai' and Vignesh ShivN, who wrote Enakenna and Avalukena, has written the lyrics for this song, too. 'I told him the concept is about being practical and not feeling bad about our previous relationships. I wanted him to convey how this person is very happy with his life now, and how the girl, too, feels the same way. He gets my vibe always and came up with lines that put this thought across best -En kannu kalangala En nenju valikkala Kadhal kavundhu dhaan ponadhaala,' says Anirudh.
 
 But, isn't this song kind of antiromantic and contradictory to the concept of Valentine's Day? 'I wanted to make this song feel like a movie. So, there is a twist in the end,' he says. They have shot a video for the song as well. 'It has been shot in Kochi by Amit, a new filmmaker.But it doesn't feature me,' he adds. Interestingly, though he has been releasing such romantic songs on Valentine's Day , the young composer says that he has had no Valentine for a long time. 'I'm very happy in this space that I don't miss having a girlfriend,' he says, and adds that one reason why he isn't in a romantic relationship is because it is very difficult to handle him. 'My timings are odd, and I'm not a phone person. I just say what I want to talk about and that's the end of the conversation. Texting ellaam velaikke aagaadhu. This is Problem No. 1,' he laughs. The other problem, he adds, is that he is not looking for such a relationship at the moment.'Generally , most people start looking out for a relationship either by way of romance or marriage. But I'm not in that space right now. I'm loving what I'm doing, I'm exploring new things in my music. So, I haven't got that feeling of wanting to get into a relationship. But, I'm sure I'll fall in love with somebody at some point,' he says. What about past relationships? Do they affect him still? 'Past is past. Like in the song, I, too, have moved on. I think everybody has to do that in today's world,' he signs off. 
 
 
 
