PANAJI: In a major development which is seen as a setback to   in the   matter, the central government has withdrawn the permission given to the additional solicitor general Atmaram Nadkarni to represent Goa government in the Mhadei water diversion case before the Mhadei water disputes tribunal (MWDT). 

 Responding to this, the Goa government has decided to approach the Prime Minister   to seek permission for Nadkarni to appear for the state before the MWDT.
 
 The order is issued by the ministry of law and justice. While allowing Nadkarni to appear before the MWDT, department of legal affairs, deputy legal adviser R K Srivastava said, “It escaped attention to consider that it is an interstate river water dispute between the states of Goa and   and such, it would not be appropriate for a law officer of Union of India to appear on behalf of one state in a dispute against another state.” 
 
 “The permission granted to Nadkarni (in July 2016) to appear before the MWDT on behalf of Goa is withdraw,” Srivastava in a letter to the state government said.
 
 Speaking to STOI chief minister   said that Karnataka had put pressure to get the order withdrawn. “On Monday I will write a letter to PM Modi requesting him to allow Nadkarni to appear before MWDT,” Parsekar said asserting that the interest of the state is supreme and that “we will not compromise the interest of the state at any cost”.
 
 Karnataka has been trying hard for an out of court settlement in the Mhadei matter for more than an year now. In January this year, a lobby of Karnataka MPs had called on the PM and also the Union law minister to resolve the issue “amicably”. One of their demands was not to give permission to Nadkarni to appear on behalf of Goa before MWDT and also in the  . Nadkarni, with his team, had put up a strong case against Karnataka before the tribunal.
 
 Stating that “we have not hidden anything from the Union government”, Parsekar said that Goa approached the Union government for the permission after Nadkarni was elevated as a law officer of Union government.
 
 “We want Nadkarni to appear in Mhadei matter because he has studied the matter in detail and done ample research,” he added.
 
 
