AHMEDABAD: Kajal, a 19-year-old girl from Mehsana, faced an acid attack in February last year, near the gate of her college. She survived 95% burn injuries and within a week of the attack received a compensation of Rs1 lakh. She was promised total compensation of Rs 3 lakh by the government authorities but she is yet to receive the remaining amount, though a year has passed.

 Data provided by city police officials indicate that in the last three years, there were four cases of acid attack reported in Ahmedabad. None of the survivors has received compensation yet.
 
 The failure to give compensation to the four   from Ahmedabad was the focus of the discussion on Thursday between representatives of   (NCW) and city police officials. 
 
 A delegation of NCW led by member   is in the city for a two-day review programme. The commission discussed around 95 criminal cases — mainly those of acid attack, hoax marriages, marital discord and dowry—that had occurred between 2012 and 2017. 
 
 “We discussed several cases and related issues,” said Rawat who was leading the  . “However, our primary focus was on acid attack cases and the delay in giving compensation to the survivors.” 
 
 On this, city police commissioner   said the authority to decide and disburse the compensation amount (in accordance with the scheme of central and state government) has been given to the district legal aid authority and the state legal aid authority. 
 
 “We have submitted proposals to the authority and they are being processed,” Singh said.
 
 The discussion also focussed on cases of hoax marriages in which husbands elope to a foreign country after marriage. City police officials said that Gujarat is more prone to such cases as several of them get married for the US green card.
 
 “Police often face problems in dealing with such cases as it is difficult to find the location of the accused,” Singh said. “The commission gave us valuable suggestions on the topic — particularly on how to seek help of local agencies to solve these cases more successfully.”
 
 The city police chief further said that in cases involving countries with whom India doesn’t have a treaty, there are informal ways of successfully solving the case.
 
 During the discussion, a senior police official shared details of a hoax marriage. He said that the police received a complaint from a woman who had got married, moved to the US and later learnt that her husband was already married.
 
 “She was thus forced to return. We could successfully solve the case after we worked on a tip-off about the man and his family visiting the country intermittently,” the official said.
 
 NCW representatives, along with city police officials, will hear applicants from Ahmedabad in certain cases on Friday.
 
 Amid a host of serious issues discussed during the meeting, police officials and NCW representatives in a lighter moment discussed a complaint against open defecation. Sources said that the NCW had received a complaint from a woman who accused her neighbour’s son of openly defecating in her residential compound.
 
