NAGPUR: Old timers say the door-to-door survey carried out periodically to prepare   was far better and more dependable. This process has been abandoned by the Election Commission some years ago. Since then, every election right from Lok Sabha and state assembly to municipal corporation is marred by confusion and large-scale complaints on election day of names missing from the polling lists.

 The lazy, disinterested voter who sees election day more as a mere holiday is equally to blame along with government machinery and political parties for the glitches in electoral rolls. Changing politics where parties do not do proper groundwork has only exacerbated the problem.
 
 “It is only on the voting day when the voter finds name missing that he or she starts protesting,” said municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. Talking to TOI on what ails the system, he said : “We had repeatedly publicised the list right from September. We developed search engines and Apps, but people did not use them widely,” the civic chief said.
 
 “I believe voters were unable to locate their correct polling booth and their names in the list at that point. Also the voter slips could not be delivered at homes by the appointed staff or political parties. The slips are a great help,” explained Hardikar.
 
 State election commissioner J S Sahariya also puts the blame squarely on voters and political parties who did not check the electoral rolls when they had the opportunity to check and raise objections, if any. “As late as January 5, voters had a chance to check their name and ascertain other details. One should know that the rolls are prepared by the   and the local authorities have no right to alter, add, or delete any names,” stressed Sahariya.
 
 Hardikar agreed time had come for another round of door-to-door survey. In the current system, the onus is totally on the voter to get enrolled and make any changes in address etc. Hardikar said under new prabhag system, more polling booths were set up for people’s convenience. Voters could not find their changed booth. All these glitches are rectifiable.
 
 Asked about failure to deliver voter slips, leaders of two largest parties-- BJP and Congress --blamed it on NMC officials. “We received the final revised list of voters with booth details on Feb 18, a day before the campaigning ended. It was not possible to print, prepare and deliver slips in two-three days,” said BJP city president  . 
 
 Congress veteran Vilas Muttemwar also echoed the same sentiment. He added most of the candidates could not afford to spend money on making and distributing voter slips and so dropped the idea.
 
