HYDERABAD: A city-based RTI applicant has been having a running battle with the   for the last several years. His plea was to fix responsibility against the officer concerned within the CIC by imposing Rs 250 penalty per day for not providing the information sought by him on time. 

 Nearly two and half years later, in February this year, the information commission passed an order admitting to “lapses“' on the part of its officers but exempted its own registrar and others from paying penalty by claiming that there was no “malafide intention.“ behind the lapses. On July 14, 2014, an application was sent to central public information officer (CPIO) in CIC by C J Karira, a  , seeking information about his 2008 petition which was closed by the CIC in 2011 without sending him any notice. Shocked to know that his case has been closed, Karira filed an application seeking information on the date on which the hearing was conducted.
 
 “To my July petition, I got a reply from the CPIO, which was misleading. So I filed an appeal with the   (FAA) in September 2014 who in turn directed the CPIO to give the right information. Despite that, I did not get any information from the CPIO. So I went for a second appeal in November 2014, to get information besides seeking levying of penalty of Rs 250 per day as prescribed in the RTI Act. It was then the actual story unfolded. It was after nine hearings and nearly 3 years later that the CPIO finally claims that he did not receive the order of the FAA at all,'' Karira told STOI.
 
 The information commissioner passed an order on February 20 after examining DC Singh, then CPIO, who is now deputy secretary in the ministry of shipping & transport, CIC registrar Piyush Agarwal and few others. During the course of the inquiry, it was found that the FAA directive never reached CPIO DC Singh. This fact was finally realised in August 2016 after the petition filed in 2014. It was then that they realised that it is not the CPIO who is responsible and that it is the registrar who is the competent authority to get the directions from FAA as it was dealt by a full bench of the CIC.
 
 On February 20, 2017 registrar Piyush Agarwal, in his deposition, said that during the earlier hearing on January 2, 2017, time was sought to locate the relevant records to find out whether a copy of the order issued by the FAA on October 13, 2014, was forwarded to the registrar or not. “However, despite the best efforts to locate the records, no record has been found to show that the said order was even received,“ the registrar said.
 
 The commissioner in his verdict in February this year, said: “There was a lapse on the part of the respondent in not providing information to Karira in compliance with the FAA order.The commissioner also notes that the Registrar has affirmed that the copy of the order was not received. In view of this, it cannot be said that the respondent deliberately or consciously withheld the information.It would not be appropriate to initiate penal proceedings against the registar.“
 
 Taken aback by the final decision of the CIC after pursuing the matter for years, Karira is still fuming. “It took me nearly three years to get a verdict which finally says that no one is responsible for the long delay in providing the right information.“
 
