NAGPUR: Top officials of Nagpur University (NU) on Saturday expressed helplessness to offer any respite to LLB first semester students, who are now left in the lurch because of confusion in the marking pattern. 

 On February 1, TOI had highlighted how law students were baffled after finding that they had failed in the exam despite scoring 50% marks collectively in theory and practical/internals, as per new rules. NU’s exam section officials had immediately withdrawn online results of first semester from its website.
 
 On Saturday evening, the officials claimed that the online result wasn’t withdraw but recalled for verification and the same result has been uploaded again.
 
 In the morning, around 30 LLB first semester students from different colleges had staged a protest outside NU office in Civil Lines. A representative group of five students was later allowed to meet pro vice-chancellor   and controller of examinations Neeraj Khaty.
 
 They informed the students that there is no provision to re-evaluate answer sheets as per old rules, once the exam has been conducted. 
 
 Students told TOI that they have been advised to apply for revaluation, and if there is any need to increase marks, then the results would be declared at the earliest.
 
 However, students were in no mood to accept the university’s explanation and decided to move the court. “We would be filing a petition on Monday. If there was no clarity on which rules had to be adopted for evaluation, then how the new marking pattern was published in NU’s Dr   prospectus,” they asked.
 
 NU has evaluated their answer books as per old rules where there was an individual passing in theory and practical/internal exams and they required to score 45% in both.
 
 The university had put the results online on Monday evening. Senior NU officials told TOI that the university’s academic section failed to inform them about amendments made in the direction for granting marks. Officials from the academic section also failed to upload new amendments on its website, despite the fact that faculty’s   (BoS) had cleared the rules in August last year.
 
 However, Yeole had said that they had never notified the new rules and, therefore, there was no question of any blunder taking place. He attributed the withdrawal of results to ‘technical snag’.
 
