TRICHY: Taking   of   about alleged harassment of a woman protester inside the   for women in Trichy, the state   commission (SHRC) has issued notice to the additional director general of police (ADGP) (prisons), seeking report on the allegation. 

 The SHRC, in the notice dated May 22, has directed the ADGP to submit report within six weeks. The committee passed the order based on a news report published in a Chennai-based Tamil daily on May 21, 2017. 
 
 The notice was necessitated following allegations by M Valaramathi, a college student from Salem who was imprisoned at the special prison for women, that she was strip-searched by prison authorities during her stay in the prison from April 15 to May 20 this year. Valarmathi and six people, including another woman, were arrested by the Kulithalai police in Karur. 
 
 The seven people had taken taken the Palakkad fast passenger to reach Trichy to take part in the farmers’ protest at Neduvasal on April 15. Kulithalai police detained and later arrested them. Police said that the accused had been vocal about the protests against hydrocarbon projects on the train and also interacted with fellow passengers to rope them into the protest. 
 
 Kulithalai police registered cases against the accused who were identified as Valarmathi,23, of Chinnamanur in Salem district; Swathi,19, of Ponnammapettai; Deepak,22, of Tuticorin; Dinesh,25, of Ukkadam in Coimbatore; Dineshkumar,19, of Mullaivad in Salem; Karthik,19, a corporation staff from Ukkdam in Coimbatore, and Suryavarman,24, of Aravakurichi in Karur .
 
 “Now therefore take notice that the matter will be listed for further consideration before this commission after six weeks. You are required to submit the report by post without fail. Take further notice in the event of any default, the commission may proceed to take such action as it deems fit and proper,” read the notice. 
 
 Meanwhile, prison authorities in Trichy have denied the allegations, stating that the frisking was a usual one as per the jail manual. 
 
 
