VISAKHAPATNAM: Raising serious concern over increased threat of protectionism by countries like USA, union finance minister   on Friday said that in contrast to the changing global dynamics, India and its people are strongly stood by the economic reform process. 

 Taking an indirect dig at US president Donald Trump policies of protectionism, Jaitley called for an urgent action to find counter action for the ‘slowdown and uncertainty’ caused by protectionist policies adopted by few countries.
 
  “In contrast to the global situation, people of India are in favour of reforms and they become aspirational. People now wanted development and are supporting reforms in all spheres of life. This has given us strength to open many sectors for private investment which is unprecedented to the independent India,” pointed Jaitley.
 
 “In contrast to the global situation, people of India are in favour of reforms and they become aspirational. People now wanted development and are supporting reforms in all spheres of life. This has given us strength to open many sectors for private investment which is unprecedented to the independent India,” pointed Jaitley.
 
 Trying to assuage the ruffled emotions of Andhra people, Jaitley said that ‘AP is a special state’ for NDA government and promised to ‘walk extra mile to help the state’ in all aspects. AP state which is witnessing widespread protests across the state with a demand for a special category status has a reason to cheer about on the first day of 23rd   that was inaugurated by union ministers Arun Jaitley, M Venkaiah Naidu, NIrmala Sitharaman in APIIC Harbour Park, Visakhapatnam.
 
 The   ( ) which is organizing the summit for the second time in the port city, has received tremendous response with more than 5000 delegates from across the world attended the investors meet.
 
 “There are reasons for our special concern for AP which is a standalone island of growth in midst of the slowdown and uncertainty. With over 10.9 per cent annual growth rate, AP has more to contribute to the national GDP which is growing at 7.4 per cent. The fast growing states like AP will act like growth engines for the country and the best part is the cutting edge leadership the state is enjoying right now,” said Arun Jaitley.
 
 He said opening of Jan Dhan accounts, launching of Goods and Sales Tax and demonetization have given a ‘directional change’ to the country that has been struggling to move to the next level of development. Strongly defending the demonetization drive, the finance ministry pointed that it has helped to integrate the “shadow economy” with the formal economy and assumed increased tax collections through digital and bank transactions.
 
 Showering praises on the initiatives launched by AP government, the FM assured that efforts of fledgling AP to become number one state in the country would be matched by the Centre as it has ‘legislative and other obligations’ towards the state.
 
