NAGPUR: At a time when the   hopes to make Nagpur a Smart City, a majority of city’s high-rises — 86.4% to be exact — face a potential fire mishap threat. Of the 1,596 buildings that are 15 metres or higher and have obtained a temporary no-objection certificate during the construction stage, only 282 (17.66%) have complied with fire safety norms. This startling fact emerged after the NMC fire department conducted an audit of buildings that are over 15m high.

 As per Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, a builder must procure a fire compliance certificate before the building above 15m height is put to use. Even the development control rule and national building code make it mandatory for any highrise. “But most developers and occupants of highrise buildings continue to renew provisional no-objection certificates even though they start using them without firefighting compliance,” alleged   corporator and former standing committee chairman Pravin Bhisikar.
 
 According to him, fire safety norms had been violated in many high-rise structures over the last one decade. Even the town planning department — which is responsible for sanctioning building plans — too has turned a blind eye to the grave violation. Not only private buildings and institutions, even a number of government and private hospitals were found lacking in complete adherence to the safety norms. TOI had highlighted the issue many times in the past.
 
 In the last couple of years, at least two dozen fire incidents were reported from different places including hospitals, but fortunately there has never been a fatality.
 
 Bhisikar cited an example of Panjwani market building, where two separate buildings were illegally joined in violation of the sanctioned plan. “Though the fire department declared this building unsafe a couple of years ago, the zone office concerned did nothing,” he alleged. Even the fire department failed to seal the building even though it had declared the building unsafe itself. 
 
 A builder must procure a fire compliance certificate before the building is brought into use. The Fire Safety Act also empowers the chief fire officer to seal any building or establishment for not following norms. So far, the department has never sealed any building for violating norms, though actions like disconnection of power and water lines were carried out.
 
 Residents said serving notices would not ensure safety. On the contrary, occupants wondered how fire department and town planning department sanctioned plans without inspecting whether firefighting equipment was being installed or not.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, in-charge chief fire officer Chandan Khede was not available for comments.
 
 BOX
 
  from Apr 14
 
 The NMC’s fire and emergency services department will observe Fire Services Week from April 14. It is being observed in memory of the 66 firemen who died fighting the fire in the Bombay docks explosion on April 14, 1944. Mayor Nanda Jichkar will be the chief guest for the programme to be held at NMC’s headquarters in Civil Lines at 9am. Deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav and others will remain present. Meanwhile, for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit, the fire department has spared three fire tenders and 40 staff, mostly firemen. For the governor’s visit, one fire tender and 20 staff will be deputed.
 
