Ajmer: From the next academic year, students of government schools will be seen wearing uniforms in new colours.

 While boys will wear coffee-coloured shirts and light brown pants, girls will be seen in blouses and skirts of the same colours.
 
 The education department has decided to change the colour of the   in government schools, which is at present a combination of sky-blue shirts and khakhi-coloured pants.
 
 State education minister Vasudev Devnani said that the government schools in the state were taking on a ‘new identity’ in the field of education.
 
 To show the difference and development, the department decided to change the old uniform colours that have been long in use.
 
 Devnani was addressing students of the Hatikhera Government School after inaugurating the newly-built classrooms under the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan.
 
 He said the old uniform gave the impression that students were coming from government schools. But the new colour would mark the image of government schools in a different way, he said.
 
 On the occasion, he assured parents that the government would increase infrastructure facilities for students as well as qualitative education in government schools.
 
 Devnani also inaugurated the new classrooms and science labs in Makarwali Government School built at a cost of Rs 1.29 crore.
 
 He said the government would provide laptops to 27,000 students of the state who excelled in examinations. Three lakh bicycles will also be distributed to girl students in Class IX at government to give them freedom of movement. The department has also planned to change the color of these bicycles from black to saffron and pink to give them a more cheerful look.
 
 The minister claimed that people, mostly parents from the rural areas, were showing faith in government schools, resulting in increase in registrations. The government has also started Mission Merit to give special coaching for students who have scored 80% or more marks so as to help them perform better in the upcoming board examinations.
 
 This year, there will be four different board examinations. While the exams of classes X and XII will be conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, the District Education Institute for Training will conduct exams for classes V and VIII in every school affiliated to the board.
 
 
