NASHIK: Industries have started gearing up for the proposed ‘Make in Nashik’ event to be held in   with state government support.

 The dates for the expo will be decided at a meeting to be convened in Mumbai soon. Nashik Industries and Manufacturers’ Association (Nima) has organised the meeting which will be attended by the divisional commissioner Eknath Dwale and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) officials and other   associations. 
 
 Nashik has a huge industrial potential, but could not fetch a single large   in the past 15 years as there was no prominent political leadership. But after the BJP emerged the single-largest party in the civic polls and the CM’s promise of adopting Nashik, industrial associations expect a boost in industrial investment.
 
 A Nima office-bearer said, “We want the state to support the proposed ‘Make in Nashik’ event in Mumbai. We have started taking steps to involve the state in the event, whithout which it can’t be successful.”
 
 An office-bearer from NIMA said, “We want the state government to support proposed ‘Make in Nashik’ event in Mumbai. It can’t be successful without co-operation from the state government. We have started taking initiatives to involve government to conduct the proposed ‘Make in Nashik’ event.”
 
 He added that they just had a meeting with the divisional commissioner Eknath Dawle. “According to his instructions, we have convened another meeting this week in connection with the proposed event,” the office bearer said.
 
 He said that apart from the divisional commissioner, officials from the MIDC and other government departments, along with industrial associations will also be at the meeting. District guardian minister Girish Mahajan has also been invited to the meeting.
 
 Nashik’s industries were disappointed after the city was sidelined at the   event held at Mumbai in February last year. Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) worth Rs 7.94 lakh crore were signed for Maharashtra, but Nashik bagged less than 0.25% of the total investment, which came to Rs 2,415 crore. Of this, Rs 1,500 crore was an expansion project by Mahindra & Mahindra, which already has a large manufacturing unit in Nashik.
 
 
