KOLKATA: Four armed men entered a reputable   chain in   in the midst of blinding rain on Thursday afternoon, thrashed the lone guard, spent 10 minutes seizing every item on display and then split, with one even boarding a public bus, to make a quick getaway.

 The scene of the daring robbery at one of the busiest commercial-cum-residential blocks of south   — barely 150 metres from Dakshinapan and Dhakuria bridge — was a Chandrani Jewellers showroom, just across the road from a UBI bank branch that was looted of Rs 20 lakh in January. 
 
 Police officers pegged Thu-rsday’s loss at a minimum of Rs 20 lakh and said the robbers took whatever they could: gold ornaments, rubies, pearls and other expensive jewellery that were on display.
 
 Shop proprietors Sushanta and   said there were three sales personnel at the desk around 2.30pm and the shop was empty of customers, probably because of the downpour. “Four men, wearing raincoats and pollution masks and helmets, entered through the main entrance. One of them hit the guard with a revolver butt and pushed him inside the shop. The other three, too, were arm-ed and, within 10 minutes, they had taken every item on display,” Soma said.
 
 None of the CCTV cameras inside the shop was working, Sushanta said, though investigators said they had collected CCTV footage from a nearby fitness centre and an optical store.
 
 The four men could not lay their hands on cash. “The keys were with my husband and perhaps they had no idea where it was kept,” Soma reasoned. The four exited the store and threw away their raincoats and one of them, who was wearing a helmet, boarded a bus. “Another fled with most of the booty in a car that was parked nearby,” claimed Soma.
 
 Cops, however, claimed that none of the accused wore a helmet and the exact number of robbers was yet to be ascertained. “We have identified a bus on route 234 that was used by one of them to flee. We have concrete leads that we are working on,” said an officer.
 
 That no neighbouring establishment had any inkling of what happened till an alarm was raised and cops arrived showed how meticulously the entire operation had been planned, an investigator officer said. Owners of four large neighbouring shops and a petrol pump told TOI they were all inside because of the rain and had no clue about what was going on inside the jewellery store.
 
 “I had no clue till I saw cops swarming the area. This is the second incident this year and we are planning to sit down with local police to discuss how we can boost security in the area,” nearby food joint owner   said. The Lake area has seen a spurt in crime of late, with the UBI Bank case being solved only last month, and residents said Thursday’s incident had added to the feeling of insecurity.
 
 Deputy commissioner (southeast division)   rushed to the spot as did several teams from the detective department. The anti-dacoity section will assist the Lake police in the probe. Officials said they had detained at least two persons for questioning later in the evening even as a couple of store employees were taken to Lalbazar for questioning.
 
 “The modus operandi hints at an insider hand,” said an officer. Officials also say, like in some past cases, a Bihar-based gang might have colluded with insiders to commit this crime. “We are showing the victims some snaps. We are hoping to develop some leads on this front too,” said an officer. “The probe will be using all available sources and dedicated teams have been formed to work on the case,” joint commissioner of police (crime) Vishal Garg said.
 
