 

 
 
 
 
 After the sweltering summer months, Amdavadis were eagerly looking forward to soak in chilly winter. Now it’s all about the mercury dipping and the cool breeze makes us to cling to our winter clothes. While we are busy satiating our tastebuds with winter delicacies it is equally important to stick to that workout routine, so as to make sure that none of the foodie rendezvous leaves its ugly marks on us in form of excess fat. There are many fitness enthusiasts in the city who love to sweat it out even during the winters. And interestingly, there are many who find it difficult to get out of their comforter in the early morning. So, here are some simple tips which will definitely help you to stay true to your exercise regime and enjoy the winter.
 
 
 
 It is natural that one gets bored doing the same old workout routine. Find a new fitness activity, says Ruju Desai, city based zumba instructor. “From dance based workouts such as zumba, dance aerobics, to outdoor workouts such as HIIT (high intensity interval training) or even yoga,  ,   and brisk walking are great ways to stay motivated to your exercise routine. While you are doing such fun cardio you can also alternatively do few Suryanamaskars out in the garden and feel the difference yourself.”
 
 
 
 The only that one can stick to any new routine is their dedication and motivation, suggests actor  . “For me what works the best is the right kind of motivation. I was quite heavy when I started out and I have achieved a great physique now. My motivation was to lose weight, look better and stay fit. The once in a month cheat day, or rewarding yourself with something small after every small weight loss milestone can work wonders and are also great motivators.”
 
 
 
 Nothing motivates you more than dressing up in some bright workout wear which are also in vogue, shares, actress Bhakti Kubavat. "Usually what motivates me a lot is shopping for new and bright gym wear. I make a point that I continue with my workout post shopping these bright and fun gym wear and stick to it as long as possible. Also a peppy and foot tapping playlist is an instant mood elevator."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 "One of the main steps when achieving any weight loss/fitness target is to set attainable goals. Start small. Once should know and understand what works best for your body and thus decide on goals. Also keep on changing on workout routines. Add something new, go for outdoor exercises or simply do exercises that you enjoy. Take part in marathon and cyclothon," says fitness trainer Rinku Ranavat.
 
 
 
 Don’t skip your workout because you couldn’t get up in the morning. Bhakti adds, "I usually travel so don’t get enough time to hit the gym regularly. If I’m shooting outdoors I go for walking or swimming and even workout by watching workout videos. With technology being so easily accessible, one can download fitness apps, modules and get glued to them and set a new workout everyday, or even find interesting alternatives. Long brisk walks, taking stairs instead of lift, cycling to small distances instead of vrooming on two-wheelers are some fun alternatives." 
 
 
 
 The key to stay true to your workout in any and every season is never giving up. One has to squeeze in sometime everyday to make sure to not neglect your health. If mornings seems a little difficult find time in the evening. Simple stretching and other exercises which can be done in office can also be done. Stay active always. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
