 Panaji: Sesa   Academy announced a grand plan to take football skills development to a new level. At a press conference here on Wednesday, the fabled academy introduced multinational natural resource conglomerate Vedanta as partners in a strategic roadmap to develop budding footballers from across the country.
  
  The academy runs on a residential basis and imparts systematic and scientific training and lays emphasis to develop the potential and grooms the youngsters to become full-fledged professional players.
  
  SFA takes care of the formal education of the trainees during a four-year training period. The academy presently has an intake capacity of 36 boys being trained at its   premises.
  
  Vedanta–Sesa Goa Iron Ore as part of its commitment to serve the community established SFA in 1999, built on the reclaimed mine at Sankhali. The group now further aims at enhancing facilities at its   academy to global standards.
  
  The skills development model seeks to scout young talent, hone and equip them with the aim of carving out a professional career. As many as 22 boys in the 14–17 age group have been selected from Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Manipur, Sikkim, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and overseas in Zambia (where the group has its operations).
  
  The selection panel made up of footballing luminaries promises to hold SFA in good stead. It comprises former India captain and goalkeeper par excellence and Arjuna Awardee Bramhanand Sankhwalkar, Bruno Coutinho, former international and Arjuna Awardee, Francis D’Souza, another former international, and renowned coach Armando Colaco with five I-League titles under his belt along with former India defender Denzil Franco, himself a product of the SFA.
  
  The SFA advisory is led by Indian icon Bhaichung  , who said: “It’s lovely to be back in Goa. It brings back many memories. The SFA has been doing a lot of good work in football by grooming players. It’s good to see its revival. With good coaches the academy has, I’m sure the academy will produce good talent.”
  
  Annanya Agarwal, president SFA, taking cognizance of the inadequacy in women’s football infrastructure in the country, resolved to bridge the gap, and will be guided by former India vice-captain Juliana Gurjao e Colaco.
  
  
  Sukhvinder Singh, CEO of the Vendanta football project, on his part, assured the academic interests of the players would be given every attention as much as footballing skills.
