LUCKNOW: More than three weeks after he took over the UP chief minister,   effected the first major reshuffle in bureaucracy, transferring 20 senior  . The list includes the officers who either worked in the CM secretariat or held key positions in the previous SP government. 

 In all, nine prominent officers, including Navneet Sehgal, who was principal secretary, information, apart from holding several other posts and Anita Singh, principal secretary to CM during SP rule, have been put on the waiting list. 
 
 Others on this list are   chairman Ram Raman, additional chief secretary Gurdeep Singh who was looking after mining department, Dimple Verma (child development and nutrition), Amit Ghosh (UPSIDC), Hari Om (culture), Deepak Agarwal (CEO, Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Eway Authorities) and Vijay Yadav (GDA chairman).
 
 Among those who have been given prime positions are Awanish Awasthi, who has been given the charge of all the departments held by Sehgal -- information, tourism, religious works. He has also been given the responsibility of CEO, UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) and UP State Highway Authority (UPSHA).
 
 Mritunjay Kumar   has been appointed as the secretary to CM. Narain, who was excise commissioner so far, is the second officer to be appointed in the CM secretariat and have given the charge of departments like estate department, civil aviation and culture. He would continue to hold the additional charge of excise commissioner.
 
 Rama Raman, who was also holding the charge of principal secretary, infrastructure, industrial development and the NRI department, has been replaced by Meerut commissioner Alok Sinha. Similarly, principal secretary, mining and minerals, Gurdeep Singh has been replaced by Raj Pratap Singh, who will continue in his present position as a member Revenue Board.
 
 Dimple Verma, who was serving as principal secretary Child Welfare and Nutrition has swapped places with Anita C Meshram who was awaiting posting. Mukesh Meshram, who was serving as the trade tax commissioner and secretary technical education as additional charge will now serve the   only. 
 
 Among others, Amod Kumar, who was secretary to former CM  , and Pandhari Yadav, secretary, housing, has been sent to the Revenue Board as a member (legal) while Bhuwanesh Kumar has been divested with the charge of Lucknow divisional commissioner. He will continue to hold the charge of vocational education and skill development and has been given the additional charge of technical education department.
 
 Amit Mohan Prasad, who was investment commissioner so far, as been given the additional charge of CEO, Noidam Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Authorities.
 
 
