To breathe a   in a metro is next to impossible. Those on two wheelers or walking on pavements are often seen wearing face masks to keep unwanted oxides and dust particles out. From the usual white and green surgical mask to reusable imported varieties, face masks are almost compulsory. But while a mask filters pollutants, its thick membrane of filters obstructs the free flow of air making breathing difficult.

 To let those wearing masks breathe easy , a team incubated at IIT-Delhi has developed a tiny wearable device as an alternative. It can filter pollutants with negligible resistance to air flow. The nasal device -Nosacle -has two nozzles, similar to those widely used for sleep apnea and other conditions. It is tiny , reusable and is barely visible as it fits snugly in the nostrils. Tests conducted on the device show that it can keep 90% of the pollutants out of the nasal chamber.
 
 Debayan Saha, one of the researchers, said the device will have a disposable cartridge for filtration. Once commercialised, the end user would get a pack of cartridges along with the device.
 
 “Face masks have membranes with smaller pores that can attract bigger particles. But the small pores pose greater resistance for breathing and carbon dioxide retention. In our device, we do not have a membrane. This makes it comfortable for the user to wear it most of the time,“ he said.
 
 Saha said the filter is in the form of cartridges and has to be changed once in eight hours for better performance. It also makes the wearer physically see the pollutants trapped in the device. “This means two things -one the device purifies the air you breathe and, two, it is time to replace the cartridge with a new one,“ said Saha.
 
 During the developmental stage, to test the efficiency of the device the team made a sixfoot-long test rig. It tested the device for particulate matter of different sizes including PM10 and the finer and most dangerous PM2.5. “We've done extensive research to ensure that we use raw materials that are biocompatible,“ said Saha.
 
 The team came up with the idea during its Stanford-India Biodesign fellowship. It was later incubated at IIT-Delhi under the Pfizer IIT-Delhi Innovation and IP Programme.Ever since the tests, researchers have achieved 90% purification efficiency and the overall quality factor, which also includes the ease of breathing, is also superior. The device, which will cost about one-third of a reusable face mask, is likely to hit the markets before the year end.
 
