Bhopal: A start-up that promises lovers a hassle-free hotel stay will start its Bhopal operations on January 23. But is the City of Lakes ready for this societal leap?

 The start-up which is already providing a service of a secure hotel room to unmarried couples in 33 cities of India is now going to enter in Bhopal on Monday. Bhopal would be first city to get such facility in the state.
 
 The rooms are available in the two time slots i.e. 10am to 7 pm and 9pm to 8am. Also there is third option for multiple day stay. However in some cities company provides room on 24 hour basis only.
 
 Founder of the app, Sanchit Sethi, a BITS-Pilani graduate, the 2015 start-up aims to facilitate affordable room-renting services for short as 8-10 hours without any hassles. “There is no law in India that prohibits (unmarried) couples from renting a room. As long as you have a government identity card, you should be given a room. We don’t live in the 1950s anymore. What we are trying to do is change the mind-set of hoteliers,” Sethi told TOI, adding: “We will launch app in Bhopal with five hotels, whose names will be revealed during launch.”
 
 The company received its first angel investment of a “couple of lakhs” from Ajay Naqvi, the country marketing manager for Airbnb, native from Bhopal, Sethi added.
 
 However social workers of city stated that Bhopal being conservative city is not likely to accept such modernisation so soon. Shyam Narayan Chouksey, an activist said “Such facilities are not healthy for society. It is a direct way of promoting anti-social activities. The main problem is if a girl gets pregnant then what will they do. Who will be responsible for such results.”
 
 While Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women's Association supporting the change said, “Police have no right to harass any unmarried couple. Such facility should be valid everywhere. It’s a free country. Debate should not be for or against app, it should be for need for change the thinking of Indians. And fight should be against moral policing that local police is carrying on.”
 
 Retired DG Arun Gurtoo said “The step is absolutely right. Someday we had to change our thinking. Though it will take some time for Bhoplis to accept but it will be good for future.” The company claims that there will no police hassle in the hotel, however police officials of Bhopal denied the fact and said “We are unaware of such things. We will take required action if needed as no one can provide rooms to unmarried couples. It is allowed only if it’s a public meeting.”
 
 
