Nagpur: Schools say that the   (NSG) given to private-aided schools state are ‘insufficient’ and have to be increased at par with ground reality. Zafar Khan, president of Nagpur Headmasters Charitable Roundtable said, “The NSG being doled out is pittance and is not in line with the expenses school have to bear. We will be meeting with MLC Nago Ganar to ensure that this issue is brought up before the legislature and appropriate step can be taken.”

 Due to crash crunch faced by state, the regular non-salary grants were stopped in 2003. Protests and negotiations between various unions and education department continued for years after that and finally in 2014, the state announced that it will pay 5% of a school’s total salary wage, as NSG with effect from April 2013. 
 
 Though the state calls it non-plan expenses, these funds are popularly known as non-salary grant (NSG). However school unions are unhappy as the state calculates 5% of fifth pay commission salary scale, rather than sixth. 
 
 Khan said, “The NSG calculation must be according to the prevailing pay scales. Even in the fifth pay commission clause, the state has chosen the lowest pay grade and then calculated 5%.”
 
 Another principal said, “The government is clearing pushing its agenda of closing down our schools. How is it possible to survive on a grant of 5% when your actual requirement is 35% minimum. We have to pay bills for water, electricity, maintenance of building and servicing of water tanks and building itself. An average annual bill for a school with 1,500 students is anywhere between Rs15-18 lakhs. Even if some management keeps maintenance to bare minimum, still they will have to shell out Rs10 lakh annually.” 
 
 Majority of the schools claim that they manage to somewhat stay afloat is because their primary section is unaided and they can charge fee from students. “Fee is nominal but it helps to pay some bills. The government aid kicks in from middle school onwards for 99% English medium schools. There were lot of hopes from this government and we hope that there will be some kind of follow up on their talk before elections,” said a principal. 
 
 
