LUCKNOW: Head of a Noida-based channel was arrested by police from Amausi airport on Wednesday evening for allegedly stoking   passion in   district. Suresh Chavhanke was planning to visit Sambhal on Thursday to lead a mob against a community. He was planning to take a flight to Delhi on Wednesday evening from Lucknow and travel by road to Sambhal on Thursday. 

 The western UP district, located 370km away, has remained on the boil for the past fortnight after hundreds of people attacked administrative and police officials on March 29 and held few officers hostage. Sambhal’s police superintendent and additional police superintendent were shunted out on April 5 for failing to bring the situation under control and IPS officer of 2007 batch Ravi Shankar Chabbi was posted.
 
 Chabbi said that Chavanke has been airing content which is aimed at vitiating communal atmosphere in Sambhal. Police have also booked Itarat Hussain Babar, who identifies himself as head of Sambhal Jama Masjid and is seen using foul language against Chavanke in videos which have gone viral and have been shared by lakhs of people over social media platforms.
 
 With episodes titled Sambhal ko Kashmir banana ki saazish, Sambhal ka Raavan Raj, Hari Mandir ka sach Jama Masjid ka jhooth among other programme, Suresh, his team and Itarat have been booked under IPC sections 153A(1), 505(1)B and 295A which amount to promote hatred on religious grounds, committing offence against state and deliberately outraging religious feelings of a certain group. The FIR was registered on Monday and police also secured warrant against Chavhanke later on. 
 
 Sections under Cable Television   (Regulation) Act have also been pressed. In Nov 2016, a former employee who worked under Chavanke had lodged a rape case against him at women police station in Noida. 
 
 ADG (law and order) Daljeet Singh Choudhary said that Chavanke was being escorted to Sambhal and would be produced before a competent court on Thursday. “We have enough evidence against him,” said Choudhary.
 
 Police team handling social media labs have been alerted to trace the IP addresses which have been used to share incriminating content over Facebook and WhatsApp in Sambhal lately.
 
