KOLKATA: A 32-year-old father of two, who runs a shawarma joint and is known in his neighbourhood for actively taking part in the rescue operation during the flyover crash at Posta, now tops the police “wanted” list.

 Binay Tripathi, who calls himself a “kattar Hindu” on Facebook , where he posted photographs attending BJP rallies, has been charged for rioting, criminal intimidation and promoting enmity between two groups on ground of religion after he had participated in a Ram Navami rally last Wednesday.
 
 He was in a group of around 300 men who had rallied from   to Posta, brandishing sword and chanting “Jai Shri Ram”. The next day, he received a notice from Posta police that he was named in an FIR and was asked to meet the investigating officer. He spent five hours at the police station and returned home late on Friday. On Saturday morning, he left home. His phones are switched off and his parents say they don’t know where he is.
 
 “I went to his shop and checked every other place where he frequents, but could not find him,” said his father  , a retired school teacher.
 
 Sitting in their one-room home right beside the fallen flyover, Tripathi, 67, said this was the first time policemen ever came to their home.
 
 “I have always told Binay to not waste time with politics. Look what has happened now. The leaders are all sitting back in the comfort of their homes, but my son had to flee,” he said. 
 
 Since Binay left home, cops have come looking for him twice.
 
 Tripathi added that he had a fight with his son around a year ago as he used to hang around BJP party offices. His Facebook profile features posts by him on attending BJP rallies and photographs with BJP leaders.
 
 But then Binay allegedly told his father that he had left the party and was focusing on his business. “But now I have come to know he is a member of the   and secretly attends their meetings. I don’t support his ideologies. Lord Ram never used to carry swords. Why would he do so during a procession marking his birth anniversary? If he returns, I myself would hand him over to police,” he said.
 
 Tripathi is among the scores of city youths against whom police lodged complaints at Posta, Bhowanipore and Cossipore police stations after the city saw 22 processions where youths rallied wielding arms. Cops have sent notices under CrPC section 41A (notice of appearance before police officer) to meet the investigating officers and are allegedly interrogating them on multiple occasions.
 
 
