HYDERABAD: Noise pollution levels in the city are reaching alarming proportions with each passing day. 
 
 While citizens are forced to bear the brunt of noise pollution, it seems like the   (PCB) and traffic police are doing precious little to curb the menace. At least the paltry amount collected as fine by the traffic police from vehicles emitting loud sounds and causing noise pollution seems to suggest so. 
 
 Till April this year the police have managed to fine only 23 vehicles, collecting a penalty of just 6,600. 
 
 According to the norms, the noise level in any area should not exceed the ambient air quality standards as per the section 190(2) of  , 1988. 
 
 Failing to adhere to the norm could attract a fine up to 1,000 for first offence and subsequent offences at 2,000. For the subsequent offences the vehicle mounted audio system and accessories shall be removed and confiscated in addition to other penalties. 
 
 Deputy commissioner police (Traffic) AV Ranganath says: "Honking is a major issue in the city. Despite our efforts to control the menace, we could not achieve much. During the night, there is movement of heavy vehicles fitted with fancy horns. We have also set up sign boards near schools and hospitals, which are silent zones. But, the noise is still prevalent." 
 
 As per the data given by the  , for the years 2011-2014 the noise levels hovered between 72 and 73 decibels (dB) - much above the prescribed level of 55 dB, the levels during most months of 2016 have been between 76 and 80 dB, according to the data released by the state PCB. 
 
 The daily maximum levels touched 95 dB during the day and 85 dB in the night. Sanathnagar, Abids, Gaddapothram and JNTU were named as the worst places to be in during both night and day as decibel levels in these places crossed over 80 dB.
 
 The levels are dangerously increasing, especially due to high-pitched honking, in addition to unnecessary and aggressive honking. The loud exhaust note of bikes is yet another menace.
 
