PUNE: Europe has emerged the top international destination this summer. The unusual rush to Schengen countries has pushed Visa appointments to more than three weeks from usual two weeks, tour operators said.

 The drop in airfares to European destinations by about 20%, Bollywood flicks shot in Europe, coupled with drop in exchange rate for euro have added to the lure.
 
 Nikhil Thakurdas, CEO, Uniglobe Odyssey Travel, said Europe has turned out to be a huge draw with round-trip airfares to most destinations, including Switzerland, France and Italy, costing under Rs 50,000 per person. “Launch of new international flights from Mumbai — including by Brussels Airlines, which started direct flights on the Mumbai-Brussels route — has made it convenient for people to   to Europe.   also launched its state-of-the art A350 aircraft on the Mumbai-Munich sector, which has kindled travellers’ interest,” he said.
 
 Thakurdas said that airfares for most countries in Europe have dropped by about 10% to 20% this period as more and more airlines enter the international travel sector in India. “While Spain has emerged as the number one destination in Europe, we have seen around 25% increase in travellers to Europe this year as compared to last year,” said Thakurdas.
 
 Sohail Zaveri, executive director at  , said though it normally takes 15 working days for visa processing to destinations like Hungary, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, it has been taking over a month this season. “Footfall to Europe has increased by 20% this season, and by over 100% to Scandinavian countries. Some newer and off-beat destinations are Scandinavia, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Oslo,” said Zaveri.
 
 Nilesh Bhansali, director, Travel Agents Association of Pune, estimated that around 150 people from the city have headed to various countries in Europe this summer. “A lot of people are flocking to Europe due to the pleasant weather there in comparison to the scorching summer in India. Also, with the dip in euro and pound rates, trips to Europe have become more affordable,” said Bhansali, adding that skiing camps in Switzerland have also generated a lot of interest among children.
 
 Bhansali added that while the pound has dropped to about Rs 84 as against earlier Rs 100, euro has dipped to Rs 72. “Airfares to some destinations like Switzerland, France, Croatia and Austria have been as cheap as Rs 32,000-Rs 40,000 per person for a round-trip,” added Bhansali.
 
 Shoba Jose George, director, The Extramile, which offers personalised holidays to its clients, said offbeat destinations like Romania and Bulgaria have emerged the biggest attractions this summer. “In Romania, people visit Dracula’s hometown Transylvania, where they stay in historic, princely estates like the Zabola. An itinerary such as this costs around Rs 3.87 lakh for two people, excluding travel, but it is all worth it,” said George, who has 10 of her clients heading to Romania and Bulgaria in June and July this year.
 
 
