KOLKATA: Seventeen-year-old Ruhana Khatoon (name changed) never knew what a kimono was. Tired of abuse at home, she fled from her family and till today, she hasn’t been able to say where her family lives. But nowadays she can easily describe how to do block printing on textiles that are used to design camisoles and duster coats. 

 Ruhana is among the 100 girls at the Nijoloy Home who have been involved in producing   for one of UK’s leading brands — Topshop. Recently, she also participated in a production of the Tagore’s dance drama ‘Chitrangada’ at GD  .
 
 “Dance is liberating. I like Rabindra nritya and want to do more productions alongside block printing,” she said.
 
 According to Aloka Mitra, founder and chairperson of Women’s Interlink Foundation and its three homes, the first order from Topshop came in 2013. “Topshop came forward to support the rehabilitation process at Nijoloy for girls   from various forms of abuse. This was part of the Key To Freedom collaboration, initiated by   and actively supported by  . Our girls have delivered seven orders and have supplied 5,000-6,000 pieces of fashionwear and bags,” said Mitra. 
 
 Mitali Pyne (name changed), 22, has become a pro in the tailoring division. It’s a remarkable progress for someone who, till 2012, didn’t even know what a sarong was. Back then, she was staying in a village in North 24-Parganas where her relatives tried to get her married off. In her bid to escape, she landed in the hands of a pimp. But Mitali was rescued just before she could be sold off. Few years in Nijoloy later, she has become empowered and has earned Rs 2.5 lakh with her block printing and tailoring skills. She has also married. “Initially, I was scared and would only make scarves from Bishnupur silk. Now it seems like child’s play to tailor sarongs, kimonos and slip dresses. Sometimes, while making samples, we try them out too,” she said.
 
 Tailoring a sarong is the easiest, Mitali said. It’s the slip dress that’s tricky. “When folks at home ask me about it, I say it is like a nighty that is dangerously slit on the sides.” 
 
 Mitali played a cheerleader to her friends who staged ‘Chitrangada’. Anurshree Ghosh, who directed the production, said: “We want the girls to get rid of the vulnerable tag. The idea is to come up with productions that people appreciate because of their standard and not out of sympathy. That’s how they will be empowered.”
 
