There was a lot of expectation when reverse mortgage, a scheme that allows people aged 60 and above to   their self-occupied home in return for a loan--paid in installments or lump sum--was introduced in 2007. But user interest in this product has remained low, primarily because of the high interest rates. “Reverse mortgage makes sense in economies with low interest rates,“ says Sriram Kalyanaraman, MD & CEO, National Housing Bank (NHB).

 Reverse mortgage is in a way a mirror image of home loans, where you take a lump sum loan and repay through instalments. In reverse mortgage, you take loans in instalments and repay the lump sum later. But interest rates for reverse mortgage are much higher, though not without reason. For instance, banks have to pay tax on the accrued interest, even though they receive the payments from the borrowers much later, which increases costs. “In reverse mortgage, banks have to take over the house and sell it, which is a costly and time-consuming process,“ says Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar.
 
 The bank can recover the loan only upon the death of the borrower, and there is always the possibility of the borrower outliving the loan tenure, which can postpone the bank's recovery of the loan. Because of this added risk, banks also offer a lesser loan to value (LTV) in the case of reverse mortgages. “For reverse mortgage, banks usually cap the   value at 40% of the value of the house,“ says Dipak Samanta, Founder and CEO, iServeFinancial.
 
 Despite these drawbacks, the fall in interest rates has made the product more appealing. “At current rates, it is a viable option for retired persons,“ says Samanta. The fall in interest rates, especially bank fixed deposit (FD) rates, has brought the annual income of several senior citizens under stress. If one had invested `50 lakh in bank FDs and was getting `4.5 lakh annually (9% interest), it is likely to be down to around `3.5 lakh now (at 7%). Reverse mortgage can help manage this income shortfall.
 
 
 
 “Reverse mortgage works well for families where kids are well settled and don't need the parents' house,“ says Brijesh Parnami, ED and CEO, Essel   Wealth Zone. Similarly, it is also a good option for retirees facing regular shortfall in their annual income and expen ditures. However, experts say that if the short fall is small, it is better to manage it using alternative routes than opting for reverse mortgage. “If the shortfall is small, increased tax efficiency--for instance, moving from bank FDs to short-term debt funds--may serve the purpose,“ says Shetty . “Small shortfalls can be mitigated by increasing the portfolio risk a bit and going for balanced funds. Anyway, you are putting the house on risk with reverse mortgage,“ says Parnami.
 
 
 
 
 Reverse mortgage can be of two types: Either the bank can pay you money at regular intervals--monthly, quarterly or annually--or, it can pay you a lump sum, which you can use to buy a   plan from life insurance companies. It is better to avoid the second option, say experts. Pension from insurance companies is fixed forever, while banks usually review the annuity amount every five years and there is a probability of the annuity going up after five years.Also, regular payouts received from banks are treated as loans and, therefore, will be tax-free in your hands. Pension from life insurance companies, however, is treated as income and you will have to pay tax at marginal rates.
 
