CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has a vision 2023 document to boost   and attract investments worth Rs 15 lakh crore, but thanks to lack of governance in the state, it is not being translated into action even five years after it was released.

 Many projects are stuck owing to lack of cooperation from the state government. Projects that direly need a push are  , laying of Chennai peripheral ring road, widening of East Coast Road, and setting up of the  .
 
 Improved ties between the Centre and state governments in recent months has raised hopes of Chennai Port-Maduravoyal elevated corridor being given a fresh lease of life. But it is an exception. Despite the Centre giving in-principle approval for conversion of eight state highways - totalling a distance of 700 km - into national highways, the national agency is yet to take over the roads. The fallout is that no agency maintains these roads at present, and motorists are left to suffer.
 
 The widening of East Coast Road between Chennai and Kanyakumari remains a pipedream. So far, the state has managed to widen only the Akkarai-Mahabalipuram stretch into four lane. Beyond Puducherry, up till Kanyakumari border, the road is narrow and a nightmare for motorists. While the state wants the Centre to carry out a detailed study for expansion of the Nagapattinam-Kanyakumari stretch alone, the Centre is not interested in taking up the work in bits and pieces. It wants the entire ECR to be expanded at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore.
 
 Industrial bodies say expansion of airports is a major challenge in Tamil Nadu. The Centre is unable to expand airports because the state is not carrying out land acquisition. Investors are impressed when they walk into Bengaluru and Hyderabad airport. Chennai presents a contrasting picture, said CII southern region chairman P Ravichandran. With a capacity to handle just 23 million passengers, it will burst at the seams by 2020. The proposed greenfield airport at Sriperumbudur is stalled because of state apathy. The Airports Authority of India had submitted a pre-feasibility report for the project five years ago.
 
 Much has been talked about Centre’s decision to establish a transshipment port at Enayam near Colachel in Kanyakumari district. But despite the TN government offering support to the project in September 2015, the project suffers delay. The Centre is yet to prepare a detailed project report for the project. “With the budget around the corner, the industry is looking up to the government to give the much-needed thrust to the   projects announced by it earlier,” said A Shankar, Head-Strategic Consulting, JLL.
 
