THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is   how differently the police are treating two cases where mothers have  . If Jishnu's family was dragged away from seeing the state police chief at the police headquarters last week, senior police officers of the Thiruvananthapuram range met the family of   (17), who committed suicide three weeks ago following an alleged harassment by school authorities, on Saturday. 

 In order to ensure a proper investigation in the Varkala case, officers agreed to appoint an officer of the family's choice as the investigating officer. On March 14, the Class XI commerce student of   had committed suicide after he was allegedly harassed and threatened by his vice-principal B S Rajesh and teacher V Sindhu.
 
 While Jishnu's mother Mahija was trying to get justice for her son, the government published an advertisement justifying its stance, much to their consternation and grief. In the other case, IG Manoj Abraham met Arjun's family at his office on Saturday and heard their grievances as DGP   was not in town. Arjun's parents, Pradeep and Shali, and other close relatives met the officer.
 
 Shali said that they had received a call from the state police chief's office to meet the rural SP on Saturday morning. On Friday, Shali had complained against the police inaction before the media in connection with Arjun's death.
 
 "The articles that appeared after our media interaction prompted senior officers to contact us," she said. They first met rural SP P Ashok Kumar and were taken to Abraham's office. The IG also appointed Kazhakkoottam cyber city assistant commissioner A Pramod Kumar as the new investing officer.
 
 Shali had alleged that she and Arjun were summoned on March 14 and school authorities had accused her son of resorting to malpractice during year-end examination. Arjun had passed in all subjects and authorities suspected that he had indulged in malpractice. They also threatened to debar him and file a police complaint. A few hours later, Arjun committed suicide at home. 
 
