NEW DELHI: The elimination of terrorism protects human lives and the Quran allows the liquidation of a "fasadi" (troublemaker) and this can save a whole community, minister of state for external affairs   said. 

 At a time when radicalisation among some sections of Muslims threatens to "distort reality and the message of Islam", the government hopes to hold an international conference on counter radicalisation, Akbar said.
 
 Speaking a national security guards (NSG) function here on Thursday, Akbar expressed disappointment over the UN's 'coy approach' to arrive at a definition of terrorism that will allow nations to act in greater concert. 
 
 Attacking the use of religion for political objectives by   organisations like Lashkar and IS, Akbar said, "In my faith Islam, conflicts over politics arose from the very beginning after the death of the Prophet and that's why we have the Shia-Sunni conflict. If religion was sufficient as the basis of nationalism then why would there be 22 Arab states?"
 
 Akbar pointed out that the Quran allows the elimination of a 'fasadi' (one who spreads mischief). "Fasad is a word commonly used in India now, elimination of one 'fasadi' is equivalent to saving the whole community. And it is very true, this metaphor is so perfectly appropriate to our country," Akbar said.
 
 The minister said India was surprised as to why the United Nations and its member countries have been held back by "some limited tactical" reason to define the precise meaning of terrorism. "... we protect human rights when we eliminate terrorism. This is a debate which goes on and on and on that we, those who seek to eliminate terrorism, are somehow infringing human rights, when the greatest threat to human rights is the terrorist. Is there anybody, who is sane, and who can challenge this?"
 
 He said while India is not witnessing a flood of Muslims swayed by radicalisation, the government does recognise the need to "take urgent measures to counter and protect (against) the spread of terrorism and radicalisation."
 
 "We are taking the lead in discussing radicalisation, in searching and finding out ways in order to challenge it because this has to be fought not only at the level of what you (security agencies) do, but also at the level of ideas," he noted.
 
 
