MUMBAI: Acquitted of murdering a relative 22 years ago, a man now finds himself held guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment. The   set aside an acquittal pronounced in 1995 by a Kolhapur trial judge and gave the accused three months to surrender. 

 Krishnath Patil was held to be 'not guilty' and set free more than two decades ago by an additional sessions judge in Kolhapur in a murder case. He was accused of murdering his brother-in-law in September 1994. The case against him was that he attacked his sister's husband following her suicide, the previous evening. They were at the hospital to collect her body. He believed his brother-in-law was the reason for her death and allegedly attacked him, assaulting him with a knife. He was arrested from the scene of the crime. The knife was found at the spot and its cover was later recovered by police at the instance of the accused.
 
 Not believing eyewitness accounts and since one witness turned hostile, the trial court held the evidence was lacking to establish it as a murder and acquitted him. The Maharashtra government decided to appeal and moved the HC in 1995. The appeal was finally taken up for hearing and disposal in a batch of appeals this summer vacation, as the HC in a bid to reduce its backlog decided to appoint a bench to finally hear long pending criminal appeals. The state's appeal against Patil's acquittal was one of the cases.
 
 It was heard by a bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Sadhana Jadhav. Additional public prosecutor Arfan Sait argued the acquittal needs to be overturned as Patil was arrested soon by his own relative as he was trying to flee. said Patil had a definite motive and was armed with a knife. His conduct in trying to run away also was incriminating evidence, said Sait, demonstrating the conclusive chain of circumstances. There were eyewitnesses whose testimony of the blows and knife injuries were corroborated by a post mortem.
 
 Patil's counsel   argued the acquittal was justified as the witnesses were unreliable. Patil in his defence during the trial in Kolhapur said his brother-in-law had inflicted injuries on himself. But the HC while hearing the matter observed there were several blows and injuries and adopted a plausible view. The HC on May 15, in a two-page order, said "for reasons to be recorded separately" the judgement of January 25, 1995 by Kolhapur sessions is quashed and set aside.
 
 Since the accuse was not in court when the order was pronounced, the HC directed the Kolhapur sessions court to issue a bailable warrant against Patil and gave him three months to surrender. Else, the Kolhapur court will issue a non-bailable warrant against Patil.
 
 
