PANAJI:   get a clear preference among   who appear to be shying away from government hospitals when it comes to treatment for their infants and for maternal healthcare. At 65%, the percentage of women walking into private facilities for maternal and natal treatment in the state is higher than the national average where just over 34.33% of Indian women chose private clinics for delivery and treatment for infants.

 Incidentally, 34.33% is also the number of Goan women who put their trust in government-run facilities when it comes to antenatal (ANC), childbirth and postnatal (PNC) care.
 
 Despite the high costs associated with such treatment, the preference is for private medical facilities.
 
 Goa along with seven other states are few states where women are turning to private institutional maternal and natal healthcare.
 
 “In Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Kerala and Telangana, the percentage of women using private facilities for ANC, delivery care and PNC is higher than that using public facilities,” a research report based on the National Sample Survey Organization data and prepared by Ruhi Kulkarni and Ramkrishna Shinde said.
 
 Among India’s urban population, 51.13% of women opt for private facilities, while the remaining turn to government institutions. In rural India, the number drops sharply to 29.26% of women who pick private deliveries and treatment for infants.
 
 These figures were thrown up by the two researchers while they were studying the financial impact that maternal health care treatment has on families.
 
 World Health Organization (WHO) statistics show that globally, the risk of maternal death is 1 is to 180. India is estimated to account for 15% or 45,000 maternal deaths annually. As per the data presented in the research paper, maternal mortality ratio in India stood at 140 for each lakh live births in 2015.
 
 Aside from the sobering maternal mortality figures for India, the research has also highlighted that maternal and ANC and PNC treatment has a significant impact on a family’s financial health.
 
 “Irrespective of the place of delivery, out of pocket expenditure has increased with an increase in the economic status of women. In India, insurance coverage to support health care expenditure is also very low,” Kulkarni said.
 
 Shinde said to reduce maternal mortality, the government had promoted institutional deliveries. To Goa’s credit, during the survey period in 2014, Goa was the only state in the country not to record an instance where a woman delivered a baby at home.
 
