Vijayawada: In a first in the country,   buyers in Andhra Pradesh can now chose dealers based on a performance report.

 The state transport department is going to introduce a star-rating system, which will include parameters such as customer treatment, number of vehicle applications rejected by the road transport authority and the reasons for the rejections.
 
 The details will be available on the e-pragati website, under the section ‘know your dealer’. Dealer information can be obtained by keying in the registered dealer number. In this section, vehicle buyers can check the total number of dealers in a district and the number of RTA offices. The section will also show the number of applications a particular dealer is handling on a daily basis. The list of vehicle applications, the list of application rejections and reasons for the rejections will be explained in the website.
 
 “Information of all dealers will be updated online. Just by clicking on the dealers’ details, buyers can make an informed decision on which dealer they want to select,” said a transport official. The rejection list is expected to be the clearest indication of a dealer’s performance. Applications can be rejected for a number of reasons starting from Form 20, wrong address proof, no helmet invoice copy, incorrect insurance policy copy, no vehicle right-side view, second vehicle details, incorrect signature, etc,. The dealers interaction with the buyers will also wegh heavily in the performance review.
 
 Though the rating system is not in place as of now, officials said the syytem will shortly be in place. “Currently we are gathering information from dealers, including insurance policies. Once the data is collected we can start the rating process” transport commissioner N Bala Subramayam told TOI. It may be noted that the star-rating system will include delivery time each dealer is taking for handing over the vehicles. 
 
 To manage this system officials are using advanced SAS data analytics. The system is so detailed that the performance of individual employees is also noted. Authorities and public can directly find out where the application is pending for vehicle  . “If any employee is found to have rejected too many applications, we can find the reasons why. If a employee is harassing anyone for money, he or she will be booked, ” officials explained.
 
 
