KOCHI: With the demand for evicting encroachments on   getting louder, Kochi corporation has started measures to evict encroachers from 47 cents in Kadavanthra, part of a waterfront compound where an apartment complex has come up. Kochi corporation secretary has ordered the officials to 'remove encroachments as per law on an immediate basis'.

 On the basis of the secretary's order, superintending engineer has started measures to evict the encroachment. “I have given instructions to the officials in charge of Vyttila zone to prepare a report on the procedures to be followed for evicting the encroachment. We will take further measures on the basis of the report,“ said Sasikumar, superintending engineer, Kochi corporation.
 
 Following a complaint by P M Paulose of Kadavanthra, taluk surveyor had surveyed the land where the apartment complex constructed by Heera constructions is situated. The complaint was that the builder levelled wetland in the area and encroa ched upon the land. Paulose, in his complaint, said that the only access to his house was a causeway through the wetland which was reclaimed and encroached upon by the builder. The survey found that there is encroached land inside the compound wall of the apartment complex. On the basis of the survey report, former district collector of Ernakulam had ordered Kochi corporation secretary to evict the encroachment in 2012.
 
 “As per the preliminary inspections by village officer,  , the extent of encroachment is six metres wide and 80 metres long. The village officer had given instructions to the corporation authorities to evict encroa chers from the land,“ says the report by the district collector.
 
 The builder submitted that the corporation had approved the plan of the building and they started construction of the apartment complex after securing building permit from the civic body. If there had been any violation including encroachment, the local body should have conducted inspections to identify the violations. Going through the report by additional tahsildar, village officer, Elamkulam and taluk surveyor, the district collector in February, 2012 ordered the corporation secretary to remove the encroachments within a month.
 
 As the corporation autho As the corporation autho rities failed to execute district collector's order for eviction, Paulose moved Kerala high court. He pleaded that there should be measures for executing district collector's order. The court ordered the Kochi corporation to hear both the petitioner and the builder and dispose of the appeal in accordance with the law.
 
 Kochi corporation council which met in January, 2013, heard both parties and dismissed the arguments by the builder. The council decided to evict the encroachment with immediate effect. The builder challenged the civic body's decision before the tribunal for local bodies and secured a stay. On April 4, 2017, Paulose approached the corporation secretary requesting that there should be measures from the corporation to evict the encroachment. He told the corporation secretary that the tribunal had decided the case in his favour. The corporation secretary noted on the file that “it is claimed in the application that the tribunal revoked the stay . Act with immediate effect.“
 
 According to officials with Heera constructions, they haven't committed any encroachment. “We don't own land in the said area. We constructed the apartment as a joint venture. The owners of the land handed over their land to us. They had constructed the compound wall before handing over the land to us,“ an official with the builder said. “We haven't encroached upon the backwaters and public land. Moreover, a case is still pending before the court in this regard,“ the official said.
 
