Panaji: Visitors can now enjoy Dudhsagar waterfalls via motorcycle pilots from Colem. Goa’s unique transport service has been roped in by the forest department to ferry visitors to the falls; an initiative that kicked off from Thursday onwards.  The innovative move comes when the usual jeep rides to the hilly terrains of the waterfall remain prohibited for duration of the monsoon on account of the rising water levels along the route. The two-wheeler rides have been permitted by the forest department for a period of 45 days even as citizens have raised safety concerns. Jeep rides will resume operations post the monsoons. “While this is being done to ease the journey, the site is only open for viewing waterfalls. Visitors will not be permitted to access the waterbody owing to the risks of monsoon,” a forest official told TOI. “Besides jeeps, private bikes are also not permitted on this route. However, with prior registration of two-wheelers with the forest department and payment of a nominal fee, we can provide a day-long permit. It is however, still risky to go on your own,” sources from the department said. The motorcycle pilots roped in have been instructed to ferry one pillion rider at a time only. For now, Rs 1,000 is being charged per head for the pillion ride up and down, a distance of about 25km and a total of 125 motorcycle trips per day will be permitted. Sources also said that the road is currently in bad condition and the forest officials have taken up the initiative of ferrying passengers with the help of motorcycle pilots. As a precautionary measure, the pilots have been instructed to provide their pillion riders with a helmet, life jacket and raincoat. These provisions are being covered by the motorcycle association to which the pilots belong. “Repairing of roads will be done simultaneously. By the time the jeeps resume, the ride will be smoother,” forest officials added. The route for this trip starts from Colem bus stop to ‘Bhind Fator’ in Dudhsagar. A compulsorily trekking of 2km has been imposed on this trail. From ‘Bhind Fator’, motorcycle pilots pick up visitors and ferry them to Dudhsagar waterfall and vice-versa.