COIMBATORE: Less than a month after the high court ordered their eviction, residents of Jeeva Nagar, off  , approached the district collectorate on Monday to voice their side of the story, better, with capable lawyers in court. 

 The residents said that they have paid for the land allocated to them by the slum resettlement board and that some are still paying, but the land is yet to be registered in their names. They blamed the court verdict for the delay in the land transfer as the verdict made them look like encroachers.
 
 According to the residents of the area, 212 families were allotted small plots of land in 1970s on a subsidised scheme by the  . The land was sold to them for Rs 1.5 lakh, which could be paid in installments over the years, and once it was complete, the land would be registered to them.
 
  "Most of us have finished paying the due amount and the families that are still paying, have completed a majority of the dues," said  , a resident and petitioner. "The land however is yet to be transferred to us. We have been paying property and other tax for the land," he alleged. The access to the colony was a 14 ft wide road provided by the slum clearance board, he said. 
 
 Problems reportedly began for Jeeva Nagar residents when other residents near their area began petitioning for their evacuation. "Since we are not a housing board and live in small thatched brick houses, in individual plots, they think we are a slum or encroachers," said Narayanan. "So, residents of surrounding areas like Marudhu Nagar, Nagammal Street and houses around   have gone to court demanding our eviction," he said.
 
 The residents said that the collectorate should ask the slum clearance board to first transfer the land to their names, so they become owners of their houses and not look like encroachers and also represent their case with capable lawyers in the court.
 
 A senior official in the Slum Clearance Board told TOI that under the  , a lot of slums were regularised and mildly relocated on unobjectionable land owned by the government in the late eighties. One such area created as part of the program was Jeeva Nagar. 
 
 "It is true that they have bought the land from us and a majority of them have completed payments. But everytime we or the collectorate sends an application for their land transfer certificates, the government does not clear it because of the court case that has been going on for around a decade," said an executive engineer. 
 
