Bengaluru: In 1909,  , a pioneering industrialist, with the help of the then King of Mysore, Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, what was to become India’s premier research centre –   ( ). Commemorating the birth anniversary of the visionary – Tata was born on March 3, 1839 – the gates of the research institute are thrown open to public, and the children.

 The Annual Open Day on Saturday saw the public pouring into IISc, to glimpse at some of the most advanced scientific experiments, and the research taking place at the institute. The generally solemn atmosphere of the institute was abuzz with excitement as young and eager minds – India’s future scientists among them – drank in the sight of scientific wonders in the 40 laboratories spread across the campus. From the explosion of hydrogen balloons to watching drones chasing eagles and flames dancing on hands, the children and public were treated to a multitude of marvels.
 
 "Experiments on biology were very interesting. Although we learn about the human body at school, the research that has been carried out here broadened our knowledge," said Yash B, student of  .
 
 The reception hall of the main building was transformed into a miniature museum on JN Tata’s life. From pictures that vivified his vision for India, to his establishment of the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in Mumbai among other numerous accomplishments, the gallery gave the visitors an informative snapshot of his illustrious life. A tribute was also paid to  , the first director of IISc, on the occasion.
 
 Sameera Rao, 58, a farmer is a regular at Open Day. "I learn a lot about various approaches to scientific farming here. Moreover, my son studies at IISc. The institute has trained them to be better demonstrators," he said. Nagesh Kumar, a visitor, expressed admiration for the eco-friendly modes of transport, walking and cycling, used on the campus.
 
 Quiz competitions conducted in various departments also kept children thoroughly engaged throughout the day. "We were awarded chocolates for every correct answer. My ambition is to become a sound engineer, and am looking forward to a session on the subject here," said Suhas Lal, a first year PU student.
 
 Describing how water and air could be detected in outer space, final year PhD student Hrishikesh Solankar said, "A mass spectrometer, in addition to measuring radio-active elements, can also detect water and air. It’s basic science, relating to electro-magnetic fields, which school students are familiar with. But, they are unlikely to know about the applications of the device."
 
 The visitors were also treated to experiments in needleless drug delivery, tea leaves being used to understand cyclones, and creating rainbows in glass jars. In all, the experience was an unforgettable one, for young and old alike.
 
 Hydrogen balloon explodes, but leaves onlookers thrilled
 
 It’s hard to miss the pungent odour of acids wafting across space when one passes close to a chemistry laboratory. However, visitors were treated to a more audible aspect of chemistry at IISc on Saturday. The sound of a balloon bursting when fire was brought close to it – hydrogen effect – left goosebumps on children. Akshata Bhat, 5, who only knows how to burst a balloon with needles, asked her father to conduct the same demonstration at home. "She won’t leave me until I actually do it," said her father.
 
 When kids enjoyed lessons outside class
 
 Making its debut at Open Day, the Kids Zone at IISc gave the younger ones a reason to rejoice. Although experiments based on Michael Faraday’s laws of electricity, the classic gas and candle experiment, etc, evoked much interest among children, it was the ‘hand on fire’ demonstration that was the showstealer. In fact, Namit G, 10, was thrilled to learn that fire could burn when there was a layer of water on your hand. More than 15 departments set up experiments to engage children on Open Day. However, a few were disappointed with crowd control measures.
 
 Brain’s patterns caught on screen
 
 At the department of neuroscience, Ankan Biswas gave a demonstration on controlling the rhythm of the brain. This experiment involved tapping into the brain using five electrodes, and some gel over a skull map on a subject’s head. The screen glowed with red waves, called Alpha, every time the subject closed his or her eyes. The introduction of noise altered the relaxation levels, which resulted in the red waves being replaced by blue ones.
 
 Drones enthral visitors
 
 Dextrous hands managing the controls on the remote, eyes fitted with lenses, Sourav Karmakar and Siddharth Kumanduri enthralled the crowd with dizzying manoeuvres on drones. The sight of these unmanned aerial vehicles chasing eagles left the spectators gaping in awe. "The drone is fixed with a tiny camera, and we can view the field on our lenses, where the visual is transmitted," said Siddharth, who has just graduated from class 12, but is an ace in flying drones.
 
 "Flying may seem extremely fascinating, and these drones are like toys but one needs to understand that only passion can drive one on," said Sourav.
 
 Recreating lightning
 
 Watching a lightning can at once be, both a frightful and awe-inspiring experience. In the high voltage engineering department at IISc, the lightning and thunder display is one of the longest running shows on Open Day. For the past 10 years, Prof BS Rajnikanth makes it a customary practice to thrill the visitors by showing them various methods to generate lightning. The laboratory is charged with high voltage and currents, to simulate the effect of lightning. A demonstration also showed that lightning doesn’t harm those flying on a plane. "Every year, the crowd keeps getting better and bigger," said Prof Rajnikanth.
 
 (With inputs by Neha Jain and Sushmitha B)
 
 
