JAIPUR: The tiger safari in   (STR) has become costlier after the recent hike. Tourists will now have to shell out Rs 1,000 more for the Gypsy safari, starting this month. 

 This may adversely affect tourism in the park as tigers are fewer in number compared to the   (RTR).
 
 The forest department has now increased the Gypsy safari fee from Rs 3,280 to Rs 4,280, a hike of rs 1,000, from May 1. The Sariska park has been faring badly in the wildlife safari circuit since 2005 and this new hike may take it even more down the preferred list of tourists.
 
 As it is, the park is short on tigers when compared to the more illustrious Ranthambore reserve. With only 13 to 14 tigers compared to RTR's 60, sighting a big cat has become rare in Sariska, which is jokingly referred to as 'buffalo sanctuary'.
 
 Instead of such price hikes, the government will have to draw up a comprehensive plan of action if it's serious about reviving the park.
 
 The forest cover of Sariska reserve (1,100 sq km) is larger than RTR, which spans over barely 392 sq km along with 60 tigers. Though Sariska lost all its tigers to poaching by 2005, it is now home to 14 big cats after relocation of tigers, distributed over a vast expanse of forest. To add to the woes, the forest department had copied the RTR model and introduced three or four designated zones for tourists in Sariska. This has in effect made tiger sighting difficult and rare.
 
 "The Ranthambore model with 60 tigers and 10 zones cannot be replicated in Sariska given the number of tigers and the area of the park. The situation is pathetic. The number of tourists has come down after the rate hike. There are no reported sightings of tigers or other animals," said   Durrani of the NGO, Sariska Tiger Foundation. On most occasions, tourists return from the safari after sighting only cattle, despite the presence of seven tigers with radio collars, he said. 
 
 "In the recent past, there have been no tiger sightings in Sariska and hardly two or three Gypsies venture into the park every day. The park management really needs to take some drastic measures. In the interest of the park and tourism, the management needs to do away with zones and provide incentives to attract tourists," a source said.
 
 Sariska was given the status of a tiger reserve and became a part of India's Project Tiger in 1978. Earlier, the park was more popular than the Ranthambhore. But, today, it is turning into a wildlife wasteland.
 
 And while it has been some time since the   ( ) gave permission to shift another tiger to STR, the forest department too has not taken any initiative to relocate more tigers.
 
