RAJKOT: The Salaya Sailing Vessels Owner's Association has written to external affairs minister   seeking her intervention for the release of seven seamen of the town from Iran jail. 

 The seamen from Salaya were detained by   in January last year.
 
 Adam Bhaya, president of the association, said that the seamen had gone to Qishm Island of Iran with legal travel documents by air from Ahmedabad via Sharjah and Tehran to board the vessel named Al Mustufa as labourers (crews) in October 2015. The owner of the vessel is a Somali national.
 
 “They sailed from Qishm to Dubai in ballast (Nil Cargo) along with eight crew members including one Iranian national who signed off at Dubai. Moreover, they loaded the general cargo from Dubai and discharged it at Somalia and came to Qishm Island as they had been told by their owner to escort a new vessel to Dubai. However, during the voyage, the Iranian national transferred diesel from the new vessel to the general cargo ship. When the crew members objected, he said that he has had a word with the owner. The Iranian then returned to his country taking the new vessel along. In the meantime, Iranian   approached these crew members and stopped their vessel,” said Bhaya. 
 
 The crew members were detained after 24 hours and taken to Chabahar port, Bhaya said, adding that they were accused of diesel thefts. Their passports, seaman books and other documents were seized. 
 
 The prison authority at Chabahar took their signature and thumb impression on a paper on which it was written they did not know the Farsi language and they became helpless and victim of someone’s mistake or fault. 
 
 “The Iranian Authority had charged seven crew members for diesel thefts which they were not involved at all’’ Bhaya told TOI.
 
 Bhaya had visited the crew members in jail in Iran last September to get details about the case. 
 
 “They are launguishing in jail for more than a year with no fault of theirs. Our crew members never involved in diesel thefts. Further, all seven seamen have no any case of police, customs or any other authority in India or abroad throughout their life. They all are innocent and illiterate and belongs to poor families. They all are the means of livelihood of their family. Now their families are facing immense financial difficulties,’’ he added. 
 
 “We have requested the government to use the diplomatic channel and ensure their early release,’’ he added.
 
