PUNE: The   is in no mood to budge from its decision to build the new   despite protests from the residents of the area.

 Chief minister   said the site for the new Pune airport in the Purandar taluka would not be changed. Replying to a text message if the location of Purandar was final for the airport, the chief minister replied, “Yes, it (Purandar site) is.”
 
 Fadnavis also said no decision on the final compensation package had been taken yet. “Not yet,” he said, replying to a question asked in this regard via a text message.
 
 On March 3, some officials of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) had stated that the rehabilitation package for the landowners would be announced within a fortnight.
 
 Germany firm Dorsch was appointed the consultant for the airport after the civic elections last month. Soon after, the local residents resumed their agitation. They even threatened to intensify their agitation.
 
 “We shall do whatever can be done to ensure the project does not happen in Purandar because it is the question of our land. Nothing is more important to us. No appeasement policy will work,” a landowner and a member of the Vimantar Virodhi Sangharsh Samarthak Sanghatan, said.
 
 Experts feel with the state government firm about the new airport’s location, the “clash” could be very intense. “The state government is in no mood to step back. In such a scenario, the government should announce the rehab package immediately and take one step at a time. Delay will only worsen the matter,” an expert said.
 
 Another aviation expert had earlier told TOI that the state government should keep options of other sites open in the wake of the protests.
 
 “Protests happen whenever a big project is announced, but it is always advisable that the state keeps options open in case things go very far. Though Khed had been rejected by the   on technical grounds, the state government must explore the area more or any other place near Pune and keep an option open. Also, the delay in announcing the compensation package is not helping the cause,” the expert told TOI requesting anonymity.
 
 Senior officials had earlier pointed out that other options, including Khed, were always open in case Purandar did not click.
 
