KOLKATA: Calcutta high court will monitor the   into the January 17   in which two persons were killed.

 Cautioning the government to probe the allegation of police firing with “utmost sensitivity“, Justice Joymalya Bagchi on Wednesday said, “People's confidence in the state should be restored“. He went on to direct the investigating officer to be present during the next hearing and mentioned that he should bring the case diary along.
 
 Justice Bagchi questioned state lawyer Subhobrata Dutta if the bullet that killed one of the victims was recovered. When Dutta replied it was with the autopsy surgeon, the judge shot back: “What will he do with the bullet? Almost one month has passed and none has bothered to collect the bullet. The bullet needs to be sent for ballistic examination, which you have not done yet. This isn't good. I will moni tor the investigation myself.“
 
 He insisted the truth should come out: “If the police fired, you have to disclose the circumstances. The situation has to be elaborated.“ About the state's claim that the police did not open fire and that there was an unlawful assembly , Justice Bagchi asked, “Have you made any counter case of unlawful assembly? If police did not fire the bullet, what is the truth? CID should probe the case as fast as possible with extreme seriousness.“
 
 Even as the HC vowed to monitor the Bhangar probe, chief minister   broke her silence on the case. The CM told the assembly on Wednesday ,“A lot of misgivings and rumours led to the agitation against the government. Twenty-four towers are ready and only four remained. But only 11people refused to accept the government compensation. It was unfortunate two persons died.But what was told to turn the villagers hostile was totally unscientific.“ She promised that among those arrested, if anyone was to appear for their exams, would be allowed to do so.
 
 Maintaining that she did not want to impose anything on people, Mamata said, “Voltage often drops in the area, crippling the small industrial units. If the power sub-station is not built, the problem will never be solved.“
 
 Hinting at a greater political conspiracy against the government, she asked, “Why were so many arms smuggled into the villages?“
 
