JAIPUR: Government owned departments are among the biggest evaders of urban development (UD) tax to   ( ). In a list of 695 defaulters with dues of Rs 350 core, half of the money is owed by government institutions. 

 Food Corporation of India (FCI) at Gopalpura has not paid its dues which has become more than three crore now. Indian Oil Depot at Bais Godam is also sitting on Rs 25 lakh as dues. Along with it Rajasthan Roadways Corporation, Central Bus stand at Sindhi Camp, Vocational Training Institute at Jhalana, Rajasthali and even   (JDA) are few among many government bodies that have defaulted on paying UD taxes. 
 
 However, it is Rajasthan Avasan Mandal and power distribution companies who are looting JMC in a big way. Total dues of Avasan Mandal, JVVNL and JVPNL alone runs into crores. JMC officials claim that they are helpless in recovering this huge amount as nobody pay heed to this matter. 
 
 “We have repeatedly issued them notices and sent reminders. But all have gone in vain. If government bodies continue behave like this, what should we expect from general public,” said a senior official of JMC. “If anyone is to blame for poor financial situation of the corporation, government departments would figure first among them,” added the official. 
 
 It not just state government but railway station at Gandhi Nagar and main junction, post offices and other Central government offices also feature in the list. As per the figures released by JMC, 1.26 lakh people have not paid their UD taxes which amounts to Rs 700 crore. However, it is just 695 people who owe Rs 350 crore. 
 
 In 2014-15, JMC received Rs 40 crore as part of   while total collection was Rs 65 crore in next year. In current financial year, total collection has dropped to just Rs 26 crore. 
 
 Civic body has now started serving notices to 1.26 lakh defaulters as final ultimatum, after which they threatened to block the sewerage lines of the property owners. However, officials too are clueless about whether they could adopt these tactics on government offices. 
 
 
