MUMBAI:  , chairman of the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group with interests in power, retail, music and sports among other things, doesn't believe in worrying about matters that are beyond his control. For instance, it's beyond his control right now to suggest whether he'd like to continue as a stakeholder in the   going forward. "Time will tell," he says. However, the Kolkata-based businessman did manage to accomplish all that he could with things that were within his control and is now enjoying the prospect of Rising Pune Supergiant winning the 10th edition of the tournament.

 "I think all in all, we've achieved what we wanted to achieve. This year has been so much better for us but when I say 'we achieved what we wanted to', I mean beyond just sport," Goenka told TOI in a chat that involved his team's newfound success, the whole talk surrounding  , his plans to stay connected with IPL after this two-year window and removing the 'S' from Rising Pune Supergiants.
 
 "Numerology," he says, when asked why the 'S' had to be removed. "I'm not a strong believer in this. An astrologer actually told me 'remove the S and it'll be good'. I told myself, 'I don't believe in this'.
 
 "But we were not doing well, so I said, alright, let's try this too. Remove the 'S' and let's see what happens," Goenka added.
 
 Whether stars did align or not, RPS are in the final of a tournament in what is their second and last season and a win or loss notwithstanding, the owner is happy with the experience.
 
 "You see, there were some disappointments last year. For instance, shifting to Vizag was one. Our performance last year was another disappointment. So, keeping all that in mind, 2017 has been fabulous," he says.
 
 Goenka says that the focus this year had been thoroughly on cricket and the franchise did not allow anything whatsoever to come in between, including the chatter involving  , MS Dhoni and the replacement of the skipper.
 
 "I would be foolish to say that I wasn't aware about what was happening (replacing Dhoni with Smith as captain). First of all, let me clarify, MS wasn't removed as skipper. He was captain for one season but we had just one year and we wanted to try out different things. The whole idea was to not allow the focus to shift and that's how we've kept it. Smith and MS have combined extremely well. His strategies on the field have been hugely impactful," says the team owner.
 
 That aside, Goenka is also very clear about what he thinks of Dhoni ­ not just the cricketer but the person off the field. "When you make any decision regarding a franchise, you don't make on the basis of whether it will or it will not become a talking point. MS is an institution. He's a legend. Each and every interaction I've had with him over the last two years, I've only walked out with respect. He's one of the sharpest minds I've interacted with," says Goenka.
 
 Considering   will be Supergiant's last year under the present contract, Goenka will certainly want to look at other avenues to continue his stint with the tournament. However, for now, he's not ready to divulge his plans yet. "Right now the focus is on the final. IPL is a great platform for sure. Let events unfold and we'll decide which sports, where and how. But as far as our commitment to be involved is concerned, we're in it for the long haul. So, the answer to that is yes," he says.
 
 
