HOWRAH: In a first-of-its-kind initiative by a civic body in Bengal and perhaps India, Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) introduced the PPP model for maintenance and beautification of six key roads in Howrah town.HMC's PPP partner, selected through a bidding process, has already started the work.

 The thoroughfares entrusted to it on a five-year contract are  , East West Road, Foreshore Road, Jagat Banerjee Ghat Road, Grand Foreshore Road and Kadamtala 100 Feet Road, spanning a combined road length of 24 km. The move is a winwin for both HMC and its PPP partner, M3 Eco Path. While HMC will save Rs 1.7 crore a year on maintenance and beautification of these thoroughfares, the company will be free to earn revenue from billboard advertisements along these roads to cover cost of maintenance and beautification and earn profit as well.
 
 Besides, the agreement requires M3 Eco Path to make a one-time payment of Rs 1 crore to HMC as compensation for loss of tax revenue from billboard advertisements along these roads over the next five years. Besides, the PPP partner will have to build a 1km road off Drainage Canal Road to a helipad in Dumurjola. Choppers carrying chief minister   uses this helipad.
 
 M3 Eco Path director Jitendra Singh said, “We will be incurring a cost of Rs 6 crore annually on maintenance and beautification of the thoroughfares entrusted to us. We will be deploying modern technology , including robotic sweepers, to keep the roads clean besides ensuring they remain pot hole free. Greenery through tree plantation along these roads will be our priority . We will also be deploying technology to keep the air along these roads pollution-free as far as possible.Other beautification projects, including illumination, will also be undertaken along these roads.“ Asked about his company's revenue model, Singh said, “We have been permitted by HMC to set up billboards in addition to the existing ones. We will introduce electronic billboards and the ones with glow signs for the first time in Howrah. We expect to earn Rs 10 crore annually from advertisements on these billboards.“
 
 Howrah mayor   said, “The initiative will ensure professional management and beautification of the roads. HMC will gain financially as it will not have to incur about Rs 1.7 crore annually that we spend on maintenance and beautification of these roads.We have taken advantage of the PPP model for maintenance and beautification of roads as an experiment which we hope will succeed.“
 
