CHENNAI: For 68-year-old R Rajeshwari standing in lines has become de rigueur since demonetisation. It’s the fifth time this month, she has made a futile visit to collect her two-month overdue pension. 

 And her plight is shared by hundreds of other pensioners in the city, who are beneficiaries of the   government's old age pension (OAP) under its social security schemes (SSS). In Mandaveli alone, the queue saw 120 pensioners being turned back after waiting for 4-5 hours for their pension. At the same spot, where a 68-year-old pensioner N Subramanian, died a few weeks ago waiting in a queue.
 
 So, how does demonetisation affect pension disbursals in the state? The TN Revenue Department, disburses pensions to more than 30.74 lakh beneficiaries in the state. Of this 23.46 lakh beneficiaries get paid through banks, including State Bank of India (SBI), Indian Bank and Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) and the remainder 7.28 lakh through the Department of Post. 
 
 Banks disburse the monthly pension amount of Rs 1,000 in cash. With Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes scrapped, business correspondents were unable to disburse pensions as banks had not supplied them with sufficient quantity of Rs 100 notes. The problem persists even 12 weeks after the notes ban.
 
 "We have given one Rs 2,000 notes to two people and have asked them to share. We are trying to give pensions to as many people as possible. And the situation has largely improved from December," said a business correspondent.
 
 But such solutions, further anger people. "How will we split it between us? We have to go a provision store and buy for atleast Rs 100 for him to give us change for Rs 2,000," said N Malliga. Another problem for Malliga is she has suffered an injury on her thumb, which prevented her going to work for nearly two weeks. "I don't know if their machine will reject me," she said, referring to the Aadhar biometric authentifier. 
  
 Her problem is not unique, as many other manual labourers are finding their financial transactions declined, because their fingerprints are smudged from hard labour - and don't match with the records. 
 
 And it is not just aged persons facing the brunt of the cash crunch, but also the differently-abled, widows, labourers and farmers, who also benefit from the state's welfare schemes.
 
 For R Bhavani, a widow with two children, everyday's wait means one day less salary. "I earn Rs 7,000 a month as a salesperson from a saree shop near Santhome. My employer cuts Rs 400 if I don't turn up. And when the old man Subramanium died I waited here the whole day, expecting them to handout pensions at least after that," said Bhavani. "I am an SBI bank account holder, why can't they transfer online?"
 
 So why does the revenue department not make the process easier with online transfer for bank account holders? "There is a history and context to our actions. We were initially disbursing solely through the Department of Post till instances of corruption emerged. Then we tried transferring it to their bank accounts. There again, we found close relatives, who were more technology savvy using their bank passbook, debit cards. And these old people suffering without the money reaching them," said K. Satyagopal, principal secretary and revenue commissioner, TN.
 
 "With some housewives and old people, we found it was better to give them cash. As many a time, we found that their access to bank accounts was highly restricted by the men folk in the family. Now is cash the perfect solution? Post-demonetisation it has been pretty tough. But we are still trying our best," said Satyagopal. 
 
 When contacted, State Bank of India said that it has largely tided over the efforts of demonetisation. "We have ensured that all our bank's business correspondents (BCs) have adequate cash. If there are pensioners, who have still not received their pensions, we will of course resolve their issue," said Balasubramaniam, deputy general manager, SBI.
 
 
