HYDERABAD: In a major relief to thousands of   in Telangana, the state government on Monday said it will conduct   for post-graduate and   based on national eligibility entrance test (Neet) rankings.

 The government has taken this decision based on a proposal sent by registrar of KNR University , Warangal who looked into the concerns of students in detail.
 
 The decision is set to bring in more transparency in medical admissions in the state since several students had alleged corruption in allotment of seats by private institutions.
 
 As per a government or der issued on Monday , the number of seats in PG and diploma courses in various disciplines in each medical college shall be notified before counselling.
 
 The   will issue no tification for admission pro cess, including submis sion of online applica tions among the eligible Neet qualified candi dates, verification of certificate and web based counselling.
 
 The selections will be done separately for service and non-servi ce seats. After three rounds of counselling for service seats, the left over seats will be added to the respective categories of nonservice seats. The unreserved seats will be filled first and then the local seats as per GO 42. Both local and non-local candidates are eligible for unreserved seats.
 
 The Telangana government has reserved 85% of the seats for local candidates.
 
 The selection committee shall display the allocation of seats category wise and college wise on the university website after each round of web counselling.
 
 In the reservation catego ry, 33 per cent of seats in clinical broad specialities and 50 per cent of the seats in pre and para clinical broad specialities for degree and diploma specialities are reserved for inservice candidates under service quota.
 
 In the reservation category, 15 per cent, six per cent and 29 per cent of the total number of seats notified in each group of degree and diploma courses separately shall be reserved for candidates belonging to scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and backward classes respectively . Apart from this, 33 per cent and three per cent seats of   and diploma broad specialities shall be reserved for women and for differently-abled candidates respectively. The service eligibility for in-service candidates states that the regular service candidates who have put in two years or more of service in tribal areathree years or more of service in rural areasix years or more of service in urban area are eligible for service quota reservation.
 
 Candidates have to be Neet qualified as per the cut-off marks prescribed for different categories to be eligible for service quota reservations.
 
 The GO clarified that if a candidate has already completed PG degree before joining government service, he/she will not get deputation to do PG degree in other subject also as in-service candidate. If somebody has done PG diploma before joining government service, in general he/she should not get another opportunity but a small concession is given in rules to make the candidates eligible for PG degree in same subject with deputation period as 12 months only.
 
