KOZHIKODE: The relatives of murdered IT professional   OP said on Tuesday that their suspicions have deepened after visiting the crime scene at the ninth floor of the   in Pune late on Monday night. They strongly suspect that more than one person could have been involved in the murder and demanded a detailed probe into the incident covering all aspects, including security lapses at the company.

 Her father O Raju told TOI that there was a total security lapse that led to her murder within a restricted area. Rasila, a systems engineer with Infosys, was found dead in the conference room on Sunday evening after being strangulated with a computer cable.  , a security guard, was arrested in connection with the murder.
 
 “It is suspicious how the security guard, who did not have access to the restricted area, managed to gain an entry. Also we haven’t got convincing answers on how Rasila was the only employee in her section at the time of the incident. Also there were no women security personnel at the facility where most workers are women,” said Raju.
 
 He said that Rasila had told him that her Bengaluru transfer request had been approved, but her supervisor was not relieving her from Pune. 
 
 “I told her to resign her job if the transfer did not materialize. I wouldn't have lost my daughter if the company had approved her transfer request submitted four months ago,” he said.
 
 Rasila's uncle Suresh N P, who accompanied her father to Pune, said that the murder was brutal. 
 
 “We strongly believe that one person alone cannot carry it out, that too after gaining access to the restricted area. Her face was severely disfigured and there were multiple injury marks on her body. She had been kicked in the chest. We have asked the police to conduct a comprehensive probe and establish whether others were involved in the murder,” he said, adding that Rasila’s mobile phone was missing.
 
 Suresh said that the family insisted on visiting the scene before receiving the body after autopsy at the General Hospital in Pune following which company authorities took them to the   building at 11pm on Monday night.
 
 He said that they have received information from Malayali Samajam’s office bearers in Pune – who had been involved in discussions with the company – that Infosys has agreed to pay an ex-gratia sum of Rs 1 crore to the nominee of the deceased. Also the company has assured to provide an offer of employment to a family member.
 
 Rasila, who joined Infosys here six months ago following her training in Mysuru, was found strangulated to death in the Offshore Dedicated Centre (ODC) room located on the ninth floor of a building on the campus around 8.30pm on Sunday. 
 
 
