KOLKATA: A day after Sukeas Street resident   Mukherjee (30), now studying at  , suffered brain haemorrhage on Thursday, external affairs minister   posted a series of tweets, assuring his parents all help to the youngster.

 After Mukherjee, who lived alone in New York, collapsed in his hostel on Thursday morning, his friends admitted him to hospital. With his condition remaining critical, some of his friends tweeted to Swaraj, requesting help. She promptly put out three tweets, saying her office was in touch with “Debarpan’s mother in Kolkata”, that they would “assure his parents reach there at the earliest” and the Indian “consulate in New York will provide all help”. As Mukherjee’s parents did not have passports, his uncle, Kaushik Munshi, was scheduled to leave for New York early on Saturday. Getting ready to leave, he said, “I have obtained the power of attorney and visa. The government is providing all help. The minister’s (Sushma Swaraj) personal assistant contacted us and informed us about Debarpan’s present condition and the prognosis. He also assured us of all the help.” 
 
 It was only in September last year that Mukherjee quit his job at TCS and joined New York University to pursue Masters. An alumnus of Hindu School, he studied at Netaji Subhash Engineering College, after which he worked for Intel, Deutsche Bank and TCS. “He was working at TCS in Bengaluru when he suddenly decided to study more and left for New York,” said Mukherjee’s mother, Tinku. She would speak to her son almost every day either on Skype or WhatsApp but never had he complained of any discomfort. “He was completely healthy. We have been talking almost every day and he sounded lively and chirpy,” said Tinku, struggling to hold back her tears.
 
 All of a sudden on Thursday morning, the family received a call at their Sukeas Street home from Mukherjee’s friends about his ailment. His aunt Aparajita Chatterjee, who lived nearby, said his mother fainted on hearing the news and now, had virtually stopped eating. “We have been getting regular updates on Debarpan’s health from his friends in New York. His condition did not improve till late at night. He was still in emergency,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
