NAGPUR: “We never judge or differentiate flowers with each other when we go to a garden. Children are like flowers, let them blossom. When in full blossom, they become more attractive, successful and confident,” said  , mayor, on Saturday. She was speaking at an awards ceremony organized by JCI   to felicitate the winners of   titled ‘Letter to the PM’, at Chitnavis Centre. 

 Over one lakh students from 130 schools of Nagpur participated in the competition. Students from Standard V to IX participated in the contest. 
 
 “Every child is special and parents should have confidence in their children so that they can make them proud by achieving higher goals in life. Most of the parents raise their children, especially daughters, in a protective atmosphere which can become an obstacle when they face tough situations in life. Children are the future of our nation so it is our duty to make them strong,” said Jichkar. 
 
 Contests like ‘Letter to the PM’ are essential for the kids for personality development. Though education is necessary, the surrounding should also be good enough so that children could cope with different situations,” she added.
 
 Swastik Jain, zone president of   Orange City, Nagpur, highlighted some letters written by students in the competition. He said, “This competition was not about winning, it was about views. I am amazed with the thoughts of these kids. Some letters will make you break into tears. One girl wrote ‘The society does not view non-rape sexual harassment seriously.’ Another one wrote ‘Our government should be strict, reliable and hardworking,’ while one student wrote ‘Everybody should be treated equally as nobody wants discrimination of caste, colour and richness.’
 
 The competition was divided into five categories, from Std V to IX. Three winners from each class were felicitated. 
 
 The winners are Arya (IX), Aanannya Ingale (VIII), Sumit Chate (VII), Sanjana Sisodiya (VI) and Atharva Gangaram (V). The first runners-up were Anuj Thakur (IX), Ishika Taikar (VIII), Vaidehi Gokhe (VII), Aditya Thakre (VI) and Manashree Ashtekar (V). The second runners-up were Shraddha Jaiswal (IX), Prashik Naranje (VIII), Maria Khumushi (VII), Aastha Sukhdeve (VI) and Yasha Motiyani (V).
 
 Ajay Vaswani, president, JCI Orange City, Nagpur, Manoj Pawa, secretary, Pranav Limaja, former president Nitin Thakkar and Hemant Nadiyana were present. 
 
 (Reporting by Uday Naidu)
 
