GURUGRAM: It’s been seven years since residents of   in   got possession of their flats in the Sector 57-based condominium, but basic amenities, like water supply and proper drainage, still elude them.

 According to the residents, the developer is yet to procure occupancy or completion certificates, in the absence of which, Huda is not ready to provide water connections while MCG is not prepared to take over the society for maintenance.
 
 The residents claimed that they had approached the authorities on several occasions, seeking supply of canal water so that they could avoid extraction of groundwater, but in vain. Currently, the society is extracting about 22 crore litres of groundwater annually.
 
 Also, there is no arrangement for rainwater harvesting, stormwater drainage and sewage treatment on the premises. “In the absence of the   (OC), we are unable to get our apartments insured, MCG is not taking care of our roads, and we are not getting canal water,” said Ravi Batra, a resident of the society.
 
 “Everything depends on the OC. And the OC is held up by the authorities because formalities are pending on the developer’s part. As long as OC is not obtained, things will not move ahead,” said Nilesh Tandon, RWA president, Nirvana Fresco apartments.
 
 The authorities have apparently issued notices to the developer on the issue. But what is the use of merely sending letters if they are not followed up with strict action in the event of non-compliance, Tandon asked.
 
 The residents further said that then senior town planner (STP) Y M Mansuri had convened a meeting in April with the developer and the residents. During the meeting, it was said that the developer had already applied to Huda for a 900KLD water connection. But, the connection has not been granted in want of an occupancy certificate. The STP then asked the developer to pursue the OC and directed the district town planner to follow up on the same.
 
 However, nothing moved in the past one month. “Possessions have been given in 15 out of the 16 towers at the condominium. We urge the authorities to compel   to get the compliance matters resolved immediately, and start issuing OCs for the 15 towers,” said Supriyo Dasgupta, secretary, Fresco RWCSA.
 
 Huda officials said the issue was under the department’s consideration. “Their OC application is pending in Chandigarh because of non-payment of licence renewal fee. We are working with the developer and the residents to speed up the process,” a Huda official said on condition of anonymity.
 
 
