BARUIPUR: A 26-year-old housewife was attacked with acid while she was travelling on the   on Sunday night. The incident took place between Baruipur and Kalyanpur stations around 10.30pm.

 Police have detained and are set to arrest the main accused  , a promoter in the Kalyanpur area of Baruipur, where the victim also lives. The woman's father had a long-standing dispute with the promoter who had allegedly built a service road encroaching a part of his property.
 
 This is the second   in South 24 Parganas in less than a week and the third since November. On February 8, a Madhyamik examinee was attacked with acid in Diamond Harbour's Usti area while she was returning from tuitions. At Taldih in November last year, a Class-X girl became the vic tim after a goon threw acid on her face. The Calcutta high court, incidentally, ordered the state to pay compensation to a victim of acid attack in November 2015 at Joynagar.
 
 The victim of the latest acid attack had boarded the Diamond Harbour local from Jadavpur around 10pm on Sunday. She works at a beauty parlour in Jadavpur. Soon after the train left Baruipur station around 10.30pm, a masked man sitting in one corner of the compartment came rushing towards her and hurled acid on her face.She sustained acid wounds below her eyes and cheeks as well as on the neck and chest.Another woman sitting beside her was also injured in the process. The man then jumped off the running train.Fellow passengers informed the local GRP officers who escorted the duo to  .
 
 The Kalyanpur victim's father alleged that Haldar was behind the acid attack on his daughter who is married to a youth in Basanti but lives at her parental home. Her father alleged, “Haldar's men had also hurled bombs at my house. The promoter also warned my son to withdraw the case lodged with Baruipur police failing which his sister would face acid attack.“
 
 DSP of GRP,  , said, “We have detained the accused on the complaint of the victim's father. We are questioning him and will arrest him.“
 
