LUDHIANA: Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) on Thursday released the report of Zora Singh Commission set up to investigate the killing of two persons in police firing on peaceful Sikhs protesting against sacrilege of Holy Guru Granth Sahib at Behbal Kalan in Faridkot district on October 14. The report, a scathing "criticism" of Police action was kept under wrap by the Punjab Government.

 AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister   and HS Phoolka, senior Supreme Court advocate and AAP candidate from Dakha, while releasing the report said that Zora Singh commission has made severest indictment of SAD-BJP government which was the reason report was not made public.
 
 Kejriwal said that commission had clearly indicted the Badal government and indicated about a major conspiracy to spread violence in Punjab. He said that Home Minister Sukhbir Badal had ordered the police to fire on peacefully demonstrating Sikhs to disturb the peace of state, knowing well that his party would not return to power. He said complimented the people of Punjab that they foiled the trap of Sukhbir Badal. “We can’t indulge in such heinous acts and we respect all the religions”, Kejriwal added.
 
 Phoolka giving details of the commission’s report said that as per the report of the commission the two youths were not killed in exchange of fire as the police has claimed. The commission has clearly stated that victims were in the sitting posture and they were fired from a close range of about one yard. The commission has also said that firing was "absolutely unwarranted". It further said the victims were defenseless and unarmed.
 
 The biggest question before the commission was whether police firing by police in self defense? Phoolka said that Zora Singh Commission has said that answer to this question is in negative which means firing was unprovoked. He said that there can’t be more severe indictment of any government.
 
 Phoolka revealed that Zora Singh Commission has mentioned in his report that cases of sacrilege were not properly investigated and some ‘big’ people are involved in it. He said that big people in the government were only chief minister and deputy chief minister. He said that it was clear evidence of involvement of Badals in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and then police firing.
 
 Kejriwal said that Sukhbir Badal was hardened criminal and it is unfortunate for Punjab that he became deputy chief minister. He demanded his arrest and assured that AAP government would order probe of sacrilege incidents and the police firing.
 
 He asked Sukhbir Badal the Zora Singh Commission was set by his own government and what was the reason that report of the commission was not made public. He said that motive was clear that commission had passed strictures against Badal government.
 
