KOCHI: Besides 10 students, a faculty member, too, was involved in burning the principal's chair, a three-member committee constituted to probe the incident in Maharaja's College said in its report. The committee also said five policemen were present when the incident took place on January 19. College   said the three-page report would be submitted to the governing council of the institute on Friday for further action. Of the 10 students, two have been identified as SFI Maharaja's unit members, including the college chairman.

 The report was prepared based on television footage of the incident and the statements of the college's data entry operator and attendant attached to the principal's office. Faculty members of the departments of Physics and Zoology were also interviewed as part of the probe. Both the departments are situated near to the principal's office.
 
 A college council meeting, which discussed the report on February 3, decided to forward it to the governing council. Rita Menon, the senior-most faculty member, headed the probe panel constituted by the college council.
 
 Police had earlier arrested three students, and the college suspended two of them, Muhammed Ameer, a student of Arabic department, and   of the department of physics instrumentation. The third student, Rohith Ronson, was a roll-out student.
 
 SFI Ernakulam district secretary  , meanwhile, confirmed the role of the organization's unit committee members in the incident.
 
 “We expelled three student leaders, who went to the extreme of burning the chair. Other students, including the college chairman, were censured,“ he said.
 
 Sources in the college said the principal, protesting the incident, has been refusing to use a new chair provided to her. Beena, however, refused comment.
 
 A group of protesters had barged into the principal's cabin on January 19, took the chair to the college's main entrance and set it ablaze.The principal was on leave when the incident happened. The protest was against the principal's alleged high-handedness. After the incident, a section of teaching and non-teaching staff passed a resolution condemning the incident and took out a march on the campus expressing solidarity with the principal.
 
