Kolkata: A day after the devastating fire at   hotel that killed two, Ho Chi Minh Sarani wore its usual busy look on Friday. The road that leads to the American Consulate and the   was thrown open to traffic and pedestrians. Shops that had been shut on Thursday resumed business. The ill-fated hotel, however, remained shut with gaping holes on its glass windows,prompting scores of passers-by to stop and click pictures.

 Ashu Yadav, who works in a shop near the hotel, lost his mobile phone during the fire. He had joined the rescue act early on Thursday morning and had been calling his friends from other shops when it slipped out of his hand.
 
  “I couldn’t find it in the dark. Even though I had saved my money to buy the phone, I am not bothered. Before I lost the phone, I managed to call three of my friends who rescued people from the hotel. Their lives are worth much more than my cellphone,” said Yadav.
 
 Private firm employee   was relieved to find life back to normal in Ho Minh Sarani. Every afternoon, Datta walks down from his office to a shop opposite Golden Parkk for a light lunch. The fire left him shaken. “This is one of the most peaceful areas in the city with the two consulate offices located one after another. So it was unnerving to find the road cut-off and in a state of chaos. This morning, I walked down to Golden Parkk to have a look. The hotel looks destroyed,” said Datta.
 
 Almost all the window panes of the four-storey structure were shattered. The panes were broken by rescuers to let the smoke out and to rescue boarders. The main gate was kept locked on Friday and a posse of policemen guarded the entrance. With the hotel set to remain shut indefinitely, no one was allowed in. Some hotel staffers sat in a group within the premises. 
 
 “It’s a bad time for us. The fire was just an accident and we had hoped that we would be allowed to register our attendance today. But that didn’t happen. We hope that the hotel opens soon,” one of them said.
 
 According to cops, forensic department officials may visit the hotel again to collect evidence. “They will check for a particular chemical in AC duct,” said an officer.
 
