
 Vasant Yadav, who lied that he had been trained to blow up railway tracks by the gang that derailed Indore-Patna Express in November, also wanted a reward from PM.
 
 On December 30, a young man from Uttar Pradesh’s   walked into the Bharatiya Janata Party’s   and said he had information on a plan to derail and   ahead of the Republic Day.
 
 The Maharashtra and the   Anti-Terrorism Squads swung into action as the informer,  , 26, went to the extent of identifying the spots where he and several others had undergone training to uproot and blow up railway tracks.
 
 The information became national headlines as Yadav made one sensational claim after another, resulting in sleuths from the country’s top anti-terror and anti-sabotage agencies jointly interrogating him at a secret location.
 
 The hawk-eyed cops, however, found something amiss in the story and subjected Yadav to a sustained interrogation, lasting 22 hours at a stretch, only to discover that he had lied in the hope of landing a job with the Railways and a reward from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in lieu of the terror tip-off.
 
 Call it a con plan-gone-wrong or plain stupidity, Yadav is in detention of the UP ATS, which may put him through a lie-detection test. He hasn’t been charged yet, and the cops have sought a legal opinion on how to deal with him.
 
 The Uttar Pradesh ATS, which has sent a report to the Central agencies on Yadav, said he claimed to have been in contact with the accused in the Indore-Patna Express derailment at Kanpur on November 20 last year, in which 145 people were killed.
 
 “He spun a sensational story,” an officer from the Uttar Pradesh ATS said. “He claimed that he was inducted in the gang by a man named Suresh, and was trained in removing keel-khunti (clips and plates along the tracks). Yadav also claimed that two of the gang who had carried out the Indore-Patna Express sabotage were also present during the training, and had received Rs 70,000 each for the job from Suresh,” the officer said.
 
 In his statement to various government agencies, including the Railway Protection Force, the Maharashtra ATS and the Uttar Pradesh ATS, Yadav said that the plan was to derail trains between Varanasi and Allahabad, and that he along with two of his friends was taken to a training camp near Varanasi, with a promise to be paid Rs 70,000 each for the job.
 
 Yadav further said that he developed cold feet after two days at the training camp, and landed in Mumbai, where his uncle lives in Jogeshwari. He narrated his terror tale to a station master in Dadar, who alerted the Railway Protection Force, and then walked inside a BJP office in Kurla, where a party worker along with railway passenger activist Subhash Gupta heard him out and alerted the Mumbai Police.
 
 The Maharashtra ATS handed Yadav’s custody to their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, who accompanied Yadav to their ‘training spots’, and also visited his village to find out that he was in his house on the day he had told the cops he was on his way to Mumbai.
 
 Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh from the Uttar Pradesh ATS said Yadav told the cops that he attended hour-long training sessions wherein the group was taught how to remove clips and plates along the tracks. “He started fumbling for words when we took him to the spots. We also found out that he had travelled from Varanasi to Mumbai on December 29 and not December 26th as he claimed,” Singh said.
 
 The cops then subjected him to a 22-hourlong interrogation. “At the end, when I knew he was about to crack, I just handed him a cup of tea. That did the trick and he broke down in sobs, saying he was looking for a job and had heard that the prime minister personally rewards those who provide inputs on terrorists,” Singh said.
 
 The mayhem Yadav’s series of lies caused
 
 » Vasant Yadav arrives at Dadar from Varanasi and immediately proceeds to the station master’s cabin to tell him about a plot to sabotage railway tracks. The station master alerts the Railway Protection Force but by that time, Yadav has left the station.
 
 » He then finds out the address of a BJP office, in Kurla, where he meets with a local party worker and tells him about the plot. Passenger activist Subhash Gupta is also called.
 
 » The Maharashtra ATS takes the man into custody and interrogates him at length. The Uttar Pradesh ATS is informed.
 
 » The Railway Security Directorate shares Yadav’s claims with top intelligence agencies in the country and various state police forces. Major combing of railway tracks commence.
 
