NASHIK: March saw a quite hot start this year and is set to get only hotter in a distinct departure from the city’s usual   pattern. 

 On the first day of the month, the residents of Nashik sweltered as the highest maximum temperature soared to 36.4 degrees celsius, a sharp 3 notches above normal and 1.2 degrees celsius higher than the mean maximum temperature of March. In 2016, the maximum temperature on March 1 was 30.2 degrees celsius.
 
 Weather experts said this could be considered a start of the “above normal”   as forecast by the   (IMD) for 2017. “The normal temperature of Nashik during the first week of March hovers anything between 32 and 34 degrees celsius. But this year, it has already surpassed the 36 degrees-mark. This suggests the mercury will further surge as the summer advances by the second week of March,” said R B Mankar, a senior official in the Nashik weather observatory. 
 
 “The first week of March in 2016 was quite cool as compared to this year. The temperature started increasing only after March 7. It had also rained between March 10 and 12. But this year’s increasing temperature suggests that the unseasonal rain will come earlier,” Mankar added. 
 
 The forecast by senior agro weather expert Dr   goes the same way. “Maharashtra is set to experience unseasonal and heavy showers from March 5 to March 7. A few areas such as Nashik will receive hailstorm. This weather activity may damage crops like pomegranate,” he said, urging farmers to keep a check on their ready crops and go for cutting as early as possible. 
 
 Meanwhile, the IMD has forecast that the summer of 2017 will be a hotter-than-usual year in India, at least up to June. Nashik is witnessing a hot weather conditions this year. In fact, throughout the month of February, the city went through uneasy conditions with the mercury going for a see-saw swing. 
 
 According to private weather forecaster Skymet, such high and lows in of temperatures over the city were a result of the northeasterly winds from Gujarat. “These winds are already hot and dry in nature which made the mercury of Gujarat soar high,” stated a Skymet notification. It has also forecast that Nashikites may expereince some relief March 7-8 as the temperatures are expected to fall following developments of thunder.
 
