Panaji: With St Andre MLA Vishnu Wagh unlikely to contest the 2017 assembly elections due to his illness, his brother, Ramrao, may receive political baptism with the   (BJP) including his name in the list of four probables for the St Andre seat.

 The three other names that have come up during the candidate selection process include BJP St Andre vice-president  , advocate Somnath Patil and Sarita Borkar. A senior party leader, present at the candidate selection meeting, told TOI that one more meeting would be held with the St Andre party workers before deciding on the candidate. “I will give you a winnable candidate,” defence minister   said, addressing party workers at the meeting. 
 
 Besides St Andre, the BJP core committee discussed probables for five more constituencies. Sources said that chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar’s name has been finalized for Mandrem, while incumbent Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, RDA minister Alina Saldanha, and former Bicholim MLA Rajesh Patnekar are also set to make the cut without any hassles. 
 
 Canacona constituency’s candidate selection process is likely to continue for another round. Canacona BJP mandal on Monday proposed the name of incumbent MLA and sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar. “We have also discussed the name for Canacona constituency, but couldn’t complete the process. We will once again call Canacona BJP workers before finalizing the name,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 BJP is also considering the name of former Canacona MLA Viay Pai Khot for the constituency. Tawadkar told reporters that there was no question of the BJP denying him a ticket. 
 
 So far, BJP has finalized the names of Pramod Sawant from Sakhali constituency, Glenn Ticlo from Aldona, deputy chief minister Francis D’ Souza from Mapusa, tourism minister Dilip Parulekar from Saligao, Dattaprasad Naik from Taleigao, Sidharth Kuncalienkar from Panaji, Rajendra Naik from Cuncolim, Subhash Phal Dessai from Sanguem, Nilesh Cabral from Curchorem, industries minister Mahadev Naik from Shiroda, Kiran Kandolkar from Tivim, WRD minister Dayanand Mandrekar from Siolim, power minister Milind Naik from Mormugoa, Mauvin Godinho from Dabolim and Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik from Fatorda. “All names would be recommended to the election committee,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 There are two names doing the rounds for the Porvorim constituency - Mahanand Assnodkar and Guruprasad Pawaskar. “We have not finalized Porvorim constituency. We will sit once again with BJP workers from Porvorim, before finalizing the candidate,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 
