HYDERABAD:   detectives arrested 12 assistant executive engineers (AEE) of the   (GHMC) for their involvement in the misappropriation of `1.1 crore of corporation funds.
On Friday , CCS detectives took 12 AEEs -Shankar, Santosh, Papamma, Srinivas, Ashok, Kameswari, Lal Singh, Mohan Rao, Vasidhar, Prerna, Naidu and Zameel -of GHMC Central Zone into custody in relation to six cases registered in April second week. Though the sections they were booked under are non-bailable, police released them on station bail, hinting at fears of possible intervention from The cases were booked by CCS officials after they received a complaint from GHMC superintending engineer, Central Zone,  , about unknown persons cheating and causing financial loss to the corporation by submitting fake bills pertaining to de-silting of nalas.
 
 “We noticed that fabricated weigh bridge bills were furnished by contractors for nala desilting work and amount was claimed through fraudulent means. A complaint was lodged with the police to enquire into the fraud,“ Singh told TOI.
 
 During the investigation, CCS detectives found out that the contractors carrying out nala de-silting work in Khairatabad, Jubilee Hills, Karwan, Mehdipatnam, Musheerabad and Amberpet furnished fabricated bills at the office of executive engineer, division ­ 7A, 7B, 9A, 9B, 10A, 10-B, of GHMC.
 
 A probe revealed that in the fabricated bills, the contractors mentioned the registration numbers of two-wheelers, three-wheelers and light motor vehicles like   as the vehicles used for transportation of silt weighing as much as 10 tonnes, an impossible task.“Amounts are paid based on the weight of silt removed. So cont ractors would mention high tonnage of silt in the bills. They would mention random vehicle registration numbers used for transportation of the silt,“ an investigating official from the CCS said.
 
 After the preliminary investigation, police arrested 18 GHMC contractors, P  , P Raju, S Srinivasa Reddy, Taduri Ramchandra Reddy , Vemula Mallesh, E Venu Gopal, Bodusu Venkatesh, Bontha Srinivas, Varikuppla Srinivas, B Shekar, V Mahesh, Bontha Mallesh, V Krishna, Varikuppala Yadaiah, B Ellaiah, Varikuppla Ravi, Yaparla Chakravarthi and   on April 28. During the subsequent probe, police found out that the fabricated bills were signed by 12 AEEs, enabling the contractors to claim `1.1 crore from the corporation.
 
 “We released them on bail under section 437 of CrPC. Investigation in the case is still on and we need to get some more information about the fraud,“ Additional Commissioner (Crime) Swati Lakra told TOI.
 
