NEW DELHIi: Over 2,000 students of   will start   for  , not only accessing  , but also to submit their assignments for online evaluation. 

 The final proposal on this pilot scheme is likely to be submitted to the union ministry of human resource development by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan in a couple of days and the project will start from July-August.
 
 “The idea is to supplement the knowledge the students get from their books in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects using technology,” said a ministry official on Thursday. 
 
 “Apart from accessing the textbooks online through ePathshala, which provides the digital textbooks and resource materials of the National Council of Educational Research and Training, the students will enhance their learning experience through animation, videos, etc, in the subjects.”
 
 The pilot run is going to begin with students of either Class IX or Class XI, with the decision on this to be taken by the ministry after the proposal details are submitted. 
 
 Over 2,000 students from the Kendriya Vidyalayas across 25 regions will be selected for the pilot. At least one school in every region will be covered by the initiative. Based on the experience and outcome of the experiment, the ministry will take a call in 2018 on incorporating the scheme into school education.
 
 “Apart from e-learning and doing away with the practice of carrying heavy textbooks to school, the scheme will see assignments being done on tablets and the work done by the students being submitted for online evaluation,” added the official.
 
 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is already preparing the training module for teachers who will be part of the pilot run. The HRD ministry will provide the tablets free of cost to the students. A student will be able to retain the device for two-four years, depending on which class he or she is in.
 
 KVS is currently developing a firewall to prevent the misuse of the tablets by the students. 
 
 It is also working on the learning enhancement platform, which is meant to provide supplementary content beyond the NCERT resources.
 
