As   joins us for a chat carrying a plate of brownie and ice-cream, he politely asks “do you mind if I eat while we talk?“ We learn he has a weakness for sweets. This telly hottie is a self-confessed foodie and loves road trips. And when it comes to his career in showbiz, Vishal has not taken any `creative' breaks right from his first show Crazy Stupid Ishq till his current venture  . 
 from a chat with Vishal, who was in Ahmedabad on a promotional trip:
 
  
 
  
  No, this is my second trip. But I have never been able to explore the city as both my trips were hectic promotional trips. I'd love to come and visit all the heritage spots. Thanks to my faculty in my college who was a Gujarati and my co-stars from Crazy Stupid Love (  and  ) I am very fond of Gujarati food. They used to get so much food on sets ­ khaman, khakhra, khandvi, undhiyu ­ I have developed a love for Gujarati food because of them.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  I play Bittu, a down to earth Haryanvi who believes that love stories must have sweet endings. He has been part of so much of high-octane action at home that he starts looking for love of his life.
  
  
 
  
  Deepakshi and I have known each other from school. Over the years, we have developed a wonderful understanding. She directs short films, TV commercials. With our busy schedules, we keep awake till late in the night to spend time with each other.Whenever we get a small break ­ we take road-trips near Mumbai.
  
  
 
  
  For Veera, I picked up Punjabi and I enjoyed speaking it so much that I started adding bits of Punjabi to my daily Hindi. When I started doing   I worked on my Hindi dialect.For Jugni, I'm learning Haryanvi.
  
  
 
  
  I am too excited about my work and can't take a break at this point. Crazy, Stupid Ishq was my first show so, I was excited about it all the time. I used to follow Veera as a viewer and was on cloud nine when I was offered a role in it post-leap. As soon as Veera wrapped up, I picked up Gangaa, as it had a wonderful storyline. After Gangaa, Jaat Di Jugni happened.
  
  
 
  
  I forced the makers to bring an end to my character because I was not comfortable playing a father. I couldn't look convincing as a seven-year old's father. Thankfully, the makers altered the storyline and my character was killed off.
