SURAT: The new cable-stayed bridge over Narmada at Bharuch that will be inaugurated by Prime Minister   on March 7 has generated a great deal of excitement among the commuters on this crucial national highway 8. 

 The feeling is that it would help ease the traffic snarls that caused immense mental trauma to drivers and economic losses to the manufacturing industry too.
 
 While the new four-lane bridge would surely provide an alternative to the existing Sardar Bridge, it may not necessarily solve the problem of jams immediately and for good. 
 
 Reason: The Sardar Bridge is a dire need of major repairs and plans are to close it down for the maintenance once the cable-stayed bridge becomes operational. The dates for closure is are not fixed yet but experts said it’s inevitable.
 
 “The load bearing capacity of the present bridge has drastically reduced and this poses a massive risk to the commuters passing over it. All the bearings of the bridge need to be changed immediately along with other repair work like upper and lower surface recarpeting,” said Dr Rakesh Kumar, a highway engineering expert and an associate professor of civil engineering at Sardar   (SVNIT). 
 
 This two-lane bridge has a vehicle carrying capacity of 15,000 passenger car unit (PCU) per day. PCU is the measure of the number of vehicles crossing a point on the road during a specific time period.
 
 Once the Sardar Bridge is closed, this entire load of vehicles will naturally shift to the new bridge, which is four-lane and having a carrying capacity of 40,000 PCU.
 
 Experts said an additional four-lane bridge over Narmada is needed to solve the bottleneck permanently. 
 
 The district administration, however, feels that the new bridge would be good enough to meet the requirement of locals and other commuters till 2040.
 
 “Traffic issues would be solve to a large extent. However, the approach roads connecting the bridge are not fully ready yet. The work of flyover towards Ankleshwar is also under construction. Once these are completed, commuting will be much easier,” said Sandip Sagale collector , Bharuch .
 
 
