While most of his contemporaries are grappling with the fact that opportunities for senior actors are slimming down on television,   is rather positive about the changing scenario. The actor, who has returned to TV with ' ' two years after shaking a leg on ' ', says, “I know that the roles for seasoned actors aren’t as good as before. In fact, there are not enough roles for senior actors. However, it’s a logical progression for young artistes to take charge as viewers want to watch fresh faces and the production houses and channels are complying with their demand. Unlike Bollywood, you can’t show a 45-year-old play a college student on TV. Also, young artistes are roped in on a much lower budget. The best way to stay in the reckoning is by staying fit; I have been following that mantra religiously and that’s the reason why even at my age, nobody offers me the role of a father.”

 Rather than look repetitive by taking up everything that comes his way, Kushal prefers to take short breaks in between projects. He says, “I love television, but I have always taken breaks to avoid doing the same kind of work. I now want roles that will inspire me to make a long-term commitment. Also, in the last two years, I got married and became a dad. One needs to spend quality time with family too, especially in the early years of your child.”
 
 The actor, who has been associated with the industry since 15 years, is seen playing Lord Shiva on his comeback show. While he was averse to the idea of taking up a mythological role, it was the character’s comic touch that prompted him to make an exception. Kushal says, “I was confused about giving my nod to the show when producer Vipul D Shah called me to shoot the pilot. I took it up as a challenge and an opportunity to explore a new genre. My character has got a lovely human side to him. He’s cute, sweet and has a sense of humour.”
 
 Lord Shiva is mostly synonymous with a serious avatar on TV. However, since his character has a comic streak, is he apprehensive about hurting the viewers’ sentiments? “There’s nothing comical about Shivji, what’s funny is what the characters around him say. Of course, Shivji’s reactions are cute and they will bring a smile to your face, but there’s nothing negative or derogatory about it. People will love this Shivji — though he is the all-powerful Almighty, his innocence and righteousness make him even more endearing,” Kushal sums up. 
 
 
