DEHRADUN: Nino Trunz, a 33-year-old Swiss cyclist, reached Dehradun on Saturday after traversing more than 25 countries, including Africa, Egypt and Nepal. Trunz, who had started this journey two years back, has plans to continue for the next couple of years as well.
 
  Laced with a tent, laptop and map, Trunz reached the city after cycling through Himachal Pradesh. “Cycling is really the best way to see a country and cheap as well. People in most places have been very hospitable and I plan to continue this journey for at least four more years,” said Trunz, who had cycled from   to China six years back.
  “I really like travelling, and I found things that I saw in the course of my journey on the cycle, would not have been possible if I would have taken any other form of transportation. I paddled cycle in most parts of my journey, but had taken a flight from Cape Town to Kathmandu. Initially, the plan was to just travel across Africa, but after two years, I realised that I needed a change, and so I decided to come here,” he added.
 
  Trunz has travelled across  , Ethiopia, Jordan, Uganda, Kenya and many other countries, though he says he doesn’t remember how many kilometres he has cycled. “I didn’t chalk out an itinerary, and didn’t plan places that I would visit much in advance. All the places that I have gone to have been spontaneous decisions,” he said.
  Speaking about his experience, Trunz told TOI, “I have had many ups and downs during this trip. People of Sudan were really nice and I made many friends there. At times, they allowed me to camp on their premises, while the worst experience was in Ethiopia, where children pelted stones at me, punctured my cycle tyres and even stole my things. After that episode, I am trying to be more careful, though it has been good otherwise.”
  
  Trunz doesn’t carry a phone, but he keeps in touch with his family through emails and  .
  
  Talking about his experience in India, he said, “I spent a week in the   and found people there very nice. In fact, I find India quite safe, since most of the times I sleep in my tent, but have not faced any problem. The only time I stay in a hotel is when I need a shower.”
 
  Financing the trip with his savings, Trunz will go to Kathmandu from Rishikesh because his Indian visa is close to expiration.
