HYDERABAD: Beaten at home for the first time this season, by Pune on Saturday,   gear up for a bigger challenge on Monday when they take on table toppers   at the   in a night game.

 With just two matches in hand and a place in the playoffs yet to be confirmed, the hosts know that it's crunch time for them. The defending champions, who are fourth in the table with 13 points, need to win at least one of their next two games ­ one at home and the other against Gujarat Lions in Kanpur to remain in contention.
 
 "It is important to take it match by match. It is crucial to do well against Mumbai, who are presently at the top of the table and all of their players are in good form," Sunrisers' mentor   said here on Sunday.
 
 "We have done well this season. It is about concentrating and focusing on the basics. If we have the ability to execute our plans, we can beat any team. We should not think of the points table because that will be a distraction in the minds of the players. It is about going out and enjoying the game. In T20, it is important to express yourself and then you can play to your potential. The first focus will be the match against Mumbai," Laxman said.
 
 Mumbai, with nine wins from 11 games, have proved to be the team to beat this season. They come to Hyderabad on a high after thrashing Delhi Daredevils by a whopping 146 runs. The Rohit Sharma-led side have gone from strength to strength and have found a hero virtually in every game. Mumbai have no pressure at all as they are sitting pretty. That doesn't augur well for the hosts who will feel the heat from the free-flowing game of the visitors.
 
 The wicket is the talking point as the Sunrisers were caught on a slow wicket on Saturday. "I'm sure it will be a different wicket. In a matter of two days you cannot play on the same wicket. We were little surprised with the wicket yesterday because the cracks were not there. We had played against the Kings XI Punjab on the same wicket but it played differently then. Yesterday, there was a patch which troubled the batsmen from the pavilion end. (Ben) Stokes exploited that area well. Having said that, I think this ground is probably the best in the country and that is why they are getting awards every year. I except a better wicket for tomorrow's game," Laxman said.
 
 Left-arm seamer   had broken down in the game against Pune. Will he be fit? "The physio is taking him for a scan and we will know the extent of the injury by Monday. It is a totally new injury. We are waiting for his fitness report," he added. 
 
