NAGPUR: Considering the ever increasing trend of psychological problems in children due to academic pressure, parental anxiety, parent children conflicts, depression as well as aggression in children, peer pressure, increasing awareness among parents and teachers, the department of psychiatry at   (NKSIMS) and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, is starting a full-fledged exclusive Child Psychiatry Centre in the hospital at Digdoh hills.

 The centre will be inaugurated on 11th Feb 2017 by Ranjit Deshmukh, Chairman,   manual which runs the college. Explaining the need of such a centre, the first of its kind in city and region, Dr Sudhir Bhave, head of the psychiatry department said that there is a significant difference between the ways children and adult patients requiring psychotherapy and counselling are examined and treated. “The environment where adults are treated can actually be intimidating and dominative if children are also examined in the same room,” said Dr Bhave.
 
 Dr Bhave says that the main component of the centre will be a play therapy room. This room would have CCTV cameras which will help doctors observe the children’s behaviour while playing without interfering. “This helps us explore the child’s psyche. We can observe whether the child is venting out his aggression in some particular way which indicates the family relationships and the environment of the home or at school. The environment where a child can be observed in his true form has to be surely a child friendly. This helps us decide the exact line of psycho-therapy that the child requires,” said Dr Bhave.
 
 The kind of toys the children prefer to play with, their behaviour with the toy speaks volumes about the problem. Later with little intervention and a guidance in playing (like a role play between a baby toy and a mother toy) can help the child in modifying his/her behaviour with the mother. “These are just a few examples. There can be any number of permutations and combinations,” said Dr Bhave.
 
 The Centre will also have an interaction unit for the doctor and children. Here care is being taken to ensure that the doctor sits at the level of the child. The furniture is being designed accordingly with a child friendly setting. “When we take the history in a hospital room the environment is not at all child friendly. Hence creating child friendly settings is one of the major factors of treatment of children. The management of the institute is putting all the effects to develop this Child Psychiatry Centre as a centre of excellence. Dedicated Child Psychiatry Centres are available at very few colleges in India,” said Dr Bhave.
 
 As a part of first phase of the development, Department has started Child Psychiatry assessment, play therapy and behavioural therapy. Play therapy room is a well-equipped room prepared with therapeutic toys to engage the children. Department has appointed experts in the field of Child psychiatry for the training of postgraduate students in the field of child Psychiatry.
 
 Department has started post graduate training and Child Assessment Camp from 1st February 2017 with the help Dr Rajeev Banhatti, Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist, UK, Dr. Sudhir Bhave, Professor, Dr Vivek Kirpekar, Professor, Dr Rahul Tadke, Associate Professor and Dr Sushil Gawande, associate Professor, Dr. Abhijeet Faye, Assistant Professor and Dr Deepika Singh, Senior Resident. This camp will be held till 10th Feb 2017.
 
 Ashish Deshmukh, MLA, Katol and treasurer VSPM, Dr Amol Deshmukh,   and Dr Kajal Mitra, Dean, NKPSIMS will also be present during the inauguration on February 11.
 
