MUMBAI: Chances are high that the city may get flooded this   too. With rains just a month away, the   is yet to appoint   for   of silt dredged from minor drains. The civic body had recently floated tenders for transportation of silt to dumping grounds from minor  , as it did not receive any response for an integrated contract that included   as well.

 Civic officials have therefore started the process of getting minor nullahs, spread over 460km, cleaned with the help of labourers sourced from NGOs. Most major nullahs, on the other hand, require machines for desilting. Contractors showed interest in desilting work for major nullahs, barring a few, such as the ones at Sion in F-North Ward and Dadar in G-North. These are yet to be desilted.
 
 At Wednesday’s civic standing committee meeting, corporators raised a stink over tardy desilting work. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and opposition leader in the BMC, said, “Though monsoon is just a month away, contractors are not yet in place. Cleaning of major drains has not started in areas such as the F-North Ward. In case of minor nullahs, such as the ones at Antop Hill and Shivshankar Nagar in Wadala, one can see that the silt has been removed and placed next to the drains, but no contractor has been appointed to transport it.”
 
 Even Shiv Sena, ruling party in the BMC, is critical. Sena corporator Mangesh Satamkar said, “There are several major nullahs such as the one on the periphery of Pratiksha Nagar and J K Chemical where cleaning is yet to start. They cannot be cleaned by labourers. They need machinery.” Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party leader in BMC, said it would be a joke if the administration plans to use labourers for major drains too.
 
 Laxman Vhatkar, director, BMC’s engineering services, said, “We began the process of appointing contractors in November, but have not got any favourable response. Earlier, we had floated tenders for both removal and transportation of silt. We then decided to call tenders only for transportation and still did not get a favourable response. Recently, when we once again floated tenders, a few contractors did show an interest as we had relaxed the tender conditions.” 
 
 
