INDORE: Despite a depleted team at their disposal currently, the   will be pleased with the way they eked out a thrilling 15-run win over the Delhi Daredevils on Saturday night while defending a low score.

 However, even as they keep their fingers crossed on the much-anticipated return of their big guns   and AB de Villiers, RCB have reason to party very shortly. As they take on   at the MPCA Stadium here on Monday night, all eyes would to be on a certain gentleman called Christopher Henry Gayle. Having slammed 9,975 runs in 288 Twenty20 games, the 'Universe boss' is just 25 runs short of becoming the first batsman in world cricket to cross 10,000 runs in the shortest form of the game - a truly incredible feat.
 
 In this edition, the big left-hander has managed only scores of 32 and 6, but would love to gallop past the '10k' mark with a typically scorching innings.
 
 Even as they hope for this 'sleeping giant' to wake up and blow all the bowlers away, RCB would no doubt be buoyed with the way they successfully defended 157 at the Chinnaswamy Stadium in their last game. The rejuvenated Bangalore side are now up against Kings XI, who too would feel confident after upsetting Rising Pune Supergiant by six wickets in their own den in an earlier game on the same day. When RCB lost their first game to the   by 35 runs in the tournament opener, everyone thought that the team would struggle in the absence (due to injury) of their talismanic players.
 
 In a fast-paced tournament like the  , though, all it takes is one game to put things back on track. Suddenly, most things looked like falling in place for RCB. Continuing the splendid form which saw him sizzle against England in the ODI series against England,   blasted some huge sixes en route to scoring a match-winning 37-ball 69.
 
 Though captaincy has been thrust on him suddenly, Watson seems to be pretty much in command, and juggled his bowling resources superbly to pull off a victory from the jaws of defeat in the last outing. What would add to the experienced Aussie's confidence is the way his gamble on left-arm spinner Pawan Negi bowling his first, and the match's last over, when 19 were needed with a rampaging Rishabh Pant at the crease, paid off.
 
 The RCB attack looks well-rounded and threatening. While Billy Stanlake and Tymal Mills bring good pace to the table, leggie Yuzuvendra Chahal and left-arm spinners Iqbal Abdulla and Negi combine to be a decent spin attack.
 
