CHANDIGARH: After the arrest of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) member secretary Birender Choudhary in a corruption case, Chandigarh administration has decided to scrutinise all orders passed by the tainted Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer during his tenure.

 The 2000-batch officer was transferred from Daman and Diu to Chandigarh as deputy conservator of forest (DCF) in 2014. Sources said Choudhary, during his tenure, had even issued notices against green category industrial units without the knowledge of seniors officials. 
 
 In the past few months, CPCC had initiated criminal proceeding against 115 industrial units for allegedly running without mandatory consent to operate and establish. The owners of the units had termed the action illegal. The units had to close down their operations and will only be able to restart after getting the mandatory consent from the competent authority.
 
 CPCC had also initiated action against 38 saw mills for allegedly violating environment norms. As per norms, the consent to establish has to be obtained before establishment of an industry, operation or a process, while consent to operation has to be obtained prior to commission of an industry and for continuation of discharge of emission and effluents.
 
 Talking to TOI, UT home secretary Anurag Agarwal said all the clearances\consents to establish\operate and notices issued by Choudhary would be examined. “Each order would be examined to ascertain wrongdoing on the part of the erring official,” said Agarwal. He said the officer, who will be given the charge of CPCC member secretary, will be given responsibility of scrutinising all orders passed by Choudhary and take appropriate action.
 
 Committee in for a revamp
 
 After receiving complaints of corruption in Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee , then UT adviser Vijay Kumar Dev had, in 2015, made Danish Ashraf, a 2011-batch Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territories (AGMUT) cadre officer, as member secretary of the committee, replacing Choudhary. The administration was forced to reinstate Choudhary as member secretary after Ashraf was transferred by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to Arunachal Pradesh. The decision of administration to replace Choudhary with Ashraf drew flak as deputy conservator of forest is eligible to hold the charge of CPCC member secretary. The administration will now write to centre government for amending laid down provisions, so that an IAS officer can be made member secretary of the committee.
 
 
