CHANDIGARH: The   government in   has made it mandatory for the   shops to display on a board whether they are selling ‘halal’ meat or ‘jhatka’. They will also have to display name of the animal whose meat is being sold on the counter.

 Doing away with the prevalent practice, the government has said that meat shop would not be allowed slaughtering of animals there. It should be done only in a place designated by the municipal body. Meat shops will also have to display details of the place where the animal was slaughtered. It has been specified that no meat shop should be near to any religious or educational institution.
 
 In all, the urban local bodies department has imposed 21 conditions on meat shops to be eligible for licence. The move is set to make a significant impact on the livelihood of small time butchers and change the way the trade is done in the state. Now it will be mandatory for meat shops to keep a deep freezer for storage of meat. It is now compulsory for the meat shops to have floor made of bricks or stone or cement and walls as well as the ceiling should be plastered and lime washed.
 
 The government data shows that after issuing notices to unlicensed meat shops operating under 81 municipal bodies, as many as 816 such establishment which were not fulfilling conditions have been closed since May 15. Gurugram was the worst sufferer where all the 550 meat shops were closed. Now licences would only be issued after inspection of meat shops by the respective municipal authorities.
 
 According to the new conditions, all implements used in the meat cutting process are required to be washed in the sink in the meat shop premises and “no washing shall be thrown or allowed to be thrown on any public passage, pavement or in drain”. No person would be allowed to sell or prepare or expose meat for sale in the premises other than those licensed by the municipal bodies. Also, there should not be direct link between the meat shops and any room used for living and sleeping.
 
 What’s more, as and when the licensing officer after deputy commissioner’s approval declares any day as “non-meat day”, all licensed meat shops will have to remain closed.
 
