Trichy: The proposal to establish a trade and convention centre in   has got a shot in the arm with top officials of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) expressing their satisfaction over a site proposed for the project. With this, the much awaited centre which intends to serve as a catalyst for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSME) has crossed a key hurdle in becoming a reality. 

 The site identified by Trichy District Tiny and   (TIDITSSIA) in coordination with the district administration at Panjappur village near the city was inspected by top SIDCO officials recently. Earlier, in the budget speech of 2017-18, the state government had put forward the plan to set up trade facilitation centres in Madurai, Salem and Trichy. Subsequently, TIDITSSIA which promotes small scale industries in the district, suggested that the district administration sanction government poromboke land up to 9.42 acres situated in Panjappur village close to the Trichy-Madurai highway. 
 
 On par with the standards of CODDISIA (The  ) trade fair complex, TIDITSSIA said that the proposed site would be adequate enough to construct such a trade and convention centre. “The site proposed by TIDITSSIA in Panjappur was visited by the senior officials from SIDCO, Chennai about a couple of days ago. The team was content with the parameters of the available site including the proximity to the city,” a senior official with SIDCO said.
 
 The land cost of the 9.42 acres was estimated at Rs 1.63 crores while the building cost was put at Rs 4.06 crores. SIDCO would facilitate the project implementation on Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode through a single window committee. Official sources said that the ceiling of government grant for establishing the trade centre in Trichy was fixed at Rs 5 crore while the remaining sum would be contributed by the associations of small scale industries in the district. 
 
 The total project cost of the convention centre in Trichy has been estimated at Rs 11 crores. “We are willing to support the project as the presence of a trade centre can be used as a platform to market various products by conducting trade fairs. Such project would also diversify the small scale industries here. Textile and other small scale industries would also get a chance to flourish in central districts,” N Kanagasabapathy, president, TIDITSSIA, told TOI. With SIDCO showing green signal for the proposed site in Panjappur, the district administration is expected to make arrangements to conclude official works such as consent of locals before handing over the 9.42 acres of government land to SIDCO, the nodal agency for the project. 
 
 
