MASOL:   dating back millions of years, rare discoveries for researchers, are on sale for a few thousand rupees at  , a small village in Punjab about 18-km from Chandigarh.

 TOI recently bought a skull of a ‘hemibos’, a 2.6-million-year-old predecessor of the present-day wild water buffalo, for just Rs 4,500 from a family in Masol, following reports that fossilised rocks found near the village were being illegally sold for a prices as low as Rs 150.
 
 Last year, a paper in a French journal, Comptes Rendus, claimed that cut marks on fossilised bones found in Masol were a proof of Hominin (early man) activities dating back 2.6 million years, and researchers could take years to find an entire skull as such fossils break due to the movement of tectonic plates.
 
 Rajeev Patnaik, an expert in vertebrate palaeontology at Punjab University’s geology department, said the skull, with its upper jaw still intact, was priceless because there are only 14 of its kind in the world. Patnaik said it was sheer luck to find a fossil like the one TOI had bought from the village.
 
 “In Chandigarh, we have three in our department’s museum and one at the Government Museum and Art Gallery in Sector 10. It is scientifically priceless,” Patnaik said. Absence of a law to protect the fossils is a cause of concern, he added.
 
 In January 2016, findings from the forests of Masol had caught the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former French President Francois Hollande during their visit to Chandigarh. They had visited an exhibition of fossils at the Government Museum and Art Gallery in Chandigarh.
 
 The person who had helped strike the deal with the family in Masol village, claimed that he knew where to look for such finds. He, however, refused to take TOI to the spot.
 
 “Foreigners have been coming here for years to collect or buy ‘maal’ (valuables). Not everything here is sold for Rs 150,” he said. “Sastey waaley kissi kamm dey nahi (The cheaper ones are of no use).”
 
 For some villagers in Masol, which doesn’t have road links and drinking water, selling of the fossils is a way of making money. “My child treks 12km in a forest to go to study in Pinjore. When I have the means to make extra money and there is no law that can stop me, why shouldn’t I sell these fossils,” said the Masol villager who sold the skull to TOI.
 
 Mukesh Singh, director of Chandigarh-based Society for Archaeological and Anthropological Research, which is in research partnership with National Museum of Natural History, Paris, for excavations at Masol, said the jaw TOI bought should not be a part of private collection.
 
 “It should be on display at a museum for all to see.” Singh was part of the Indo-French team that carried out excavations in Masol and came out with the paper in Comptes Rendus.
 
 The main reason behind Masol being robbed of its fossils is the absence of a law to protect them. ASI’s Chandigarh circle deputy superintending archaeologist, Vinod Singh Rawat, said, “The Antiquities and Art Treasures Act only covered finds related to human activity. It does not come under our purview.”
 
 Ajay Chauhan, a lawyer in the Punjab and Haryana high court, said, “While there exists a regulatory authority for geological studies in the form of Geological Survey of India, but its functioning mostly pertains to the creation and updation of national geoscientific information and mineral resource assessment and not fossil preservation for academic or scientific research.”
 
