PANAJI: Despite spending Rs 8.65 crore, which is in addition to the Rs 10 crore spent in 2009, to develop the underpass between Goa medical college and the dental college at  , pedestrians continue to risk life and limb by sprinting across the National Highway 17.

 Conceptualized as a motorable underground subway, the subway continues to languish unutilized by public transport commuters and medical students. On Friday, when TOI paid a visit to the underpass, aside from the few odd vehicles that used the underpass, pedestrians remained largely absent. With dust and garbage collecting along the pavements, the subway bore a deserted look with hardly a soul utilizing the facility.
 
 “It is more convenient to cross the road. It is shorter and I could miss the bus if I take the underpass,” a   staffer said. The woman admitted that she had never used the underpass.
 
 Hundreds of pedestrians, doctors, patients and relatives of patients run the daily gauntlet of speeding traffic on national highway 17. While the government has completed the motor subway between GMC and the dental college, it has yet to install barricades to prevent people from running across the road, which not only endangers pedestrians, but also motorists.
 
 “We use the subway, but in the evening it gets lonely and there are times when we feel scared. The lights are never switched on and sometimes there are only men, so we avoid it when it’s late,” Sonia, a student said.
 
 The motorable subway outside Goa medical college was conceptualized to facilitate proper flow of traffic and to help pedestrians, patients and doctors to safely cross the road. Proposed in 2013 for the Lusofonia Games, the project has missed several deadlines, but was informally thrown open in 2016.
 
 The subway cross section measuring 7.5m-wide and 5m-high has four entry and exit points allowing vehicles from Goa medical college, Goa dental college, intergrated school complex at   to use the subway to get to the other side of NH17 without disrupting traffic.
 
 
