NEW DELHI: It would have been an admirable iteration of the belief that life must go on if it wasn’t for the fact that it appears more to be plain callousness. Just 20 days after a mountain of trash collapsed at the  , killing two young people in the process, another is rising ominously. 

 With   dumping 700 tonnes of   every day at a new spot next to the main road connecting Vaishali with NH24, the lesson of September 1 seems to have been lost on civic authorities.
 
 The site of the disaster, still littered with the garbage that trundled down from a height of 50 metres, is a daily reminder of the perils of overused landfills. But, with the two roads close to the place shut since, the third, a pot-holed entity skirting Mullah Colony, now bears the pressure of the entire vehicular movement. And dangerously, the new mound lies very close to this road, which is lined with small shops and used by over 1,000 vehicles every day.
 
 Paying scant attention to the government of India rule that a landfill has to be 200 metres from any highway or the Delhi lieutenant governor’s instruction that garbage should no longer be ferried to Ghazipur, EDMC is transporting trash to a spot that had been partially stabilised with the planting of drought-resistant green cover, pleading that it is unable to find an alternative dump site. It is already over 30 feet tall, dwarfing the workers and ragpickers who scavenge a living from it.
 
 The people living in the proximity aren’t a happy lot. Residential areas surround the 70-acre spot that emits noxious vapours and is frequently on fire. “We are living in utter fear,” said Mohammad Faisal, who runs a food stall near the new mound. “On September 1, the mountain collapsed after a mysterious blast supposedly caused by emitted gas. This one looks like it will fall down even in a powerful storm.”
 
 The unstable hillock of garbage, vultures flying ominously overhead, is not an inspiring sight and when portions of it burn in methane fire, it appears almost malevolent. “At night, the muck looks like a burning mountain and in the day, we feel the heat emanating from the heap,” said Mohammad Ismail.
 
 Calling it the “mound of helplessness”, a senior EDMC official said the civic body had nowhere else to take the municipal waste to, particularly after villagers at Rani Khera opposed the use of a vacant field there as a landfill.
 
 “This new site is being strictly supervised by technical authorities,” Vivek Pandey, additional commissioner, EDMC, sought to reassure. “We are not dumping garbage at the site of the collapse. We hope the highways authority will use inert waste from   in road construction.”
 
 Pandey added that EDMC was taking precautions to avoid another fatal crash. “We dress the dumped waste using heavy vehicles so that it is compacted tightly. It will become a potential hazard only after a year or two, by which time we will have got an alternative landfill,” he said optimistically. 
 
 He also said that when the capacity of EDMC’s waste-to-energy plants increased as planned, combustible material from Ghazipur would be used as fuel for these plants. But given the slow pace of work on such alternatives, EDMC has to be extra vigilant about the dangers posed by the growing muck pile.
 
 
