Cleared

 Chennai: With dengue and other types of fever prevalent in the state, DMK MLAs fanned out to government hospitals and primary health centres in their constituencies to check the availability of doctors, nurses, medicines and treatment provided to them. TOI spoke to some MLAs, who are also doctors by profession.
 
 “Thalapathi (DMK working president M K Stalin), who visited government hospitals in his Kolathur constituency and enquired after patients affected by dengue and other fevers, instructed party MLAs to do the same in their respective constituencies. He asked them to check on the treatment and facilities provided to them,” Tiruvallur MLA V G Rajendran told TOI.
 
 Rajendran visited the Tiruvallur district government hospital and interacted with patients. Doctors too briefed him about the type of treatment being given. “Apart from visiting the hospital, I also wanted the local panchayat union to clean up a water tank, which was a source of mosquito breeding. After much delay the local body official acted and cleared the tank of debris,” said Rajendran.
 
 In Saidapet constituency, former Chennai mayor and MLA M Subramanian visited the government hospital and enquired about the facilities for patients. “I could see many patients affected by dengue and other fevers in the hospital, which has a separate fever ward. The government authorities have not taken adequate steps to prevent spread of dengue,” said Subramanian. “Corporation has to prevent breeding of mosquitoes in the area as several patients are treated every day in the hospital for fever-related symptoms,” he said.
 
 Many DMK MLAs visited hospitals in their districts. “Compared to other constituencies, spread of dengue is controlled in Mannargudi. But we were the first to have a rash of dengue cases in the month of August. Since then, steps have been taken in the constituency to clean the water bodies and sewer lines to prevent mosquito breeding. In August one person died in the constituency due to dengue,” said Mannargudi MLA T R B Raja.
 
 eom
 
 
