MUMBAI: Five days after a 27-year-old man was nailed in the rape-and-murder case of a 24-year-old physiotherapist from  , the police said that they had to sift through and screen the records of nearly 2,000 people from three villages in West Bengal, before they zeroed in on the accused. 

 On Wednesday, Dhara was produced in the 65th Andheri   and judge VC Patil extended his custody till February 10.
 
 The police said that they learnt of Debashish Dhara's alleged involvement after a forensic report confirmed his role on the basis of a DNA test report. The physiotherapist was found murdered in the first week of December. 
 
  After getting confirmation about Dhara's role on January 26, a police team reached West Bengal. However, they were left with a hurdle of locating Dhara from three villages that comprises of a population of 1,800-plus. 
 
 An officer from Vile Parle police station said that they tracked down Dhara's place within 48 hours with help from the local police and with government records of population data from a cluster of three villages in Midnapore district. "He was found at another location though the team initially landed at his house. His mother did not believe that he had committed any crime," said this officer.
 
 It was last month that a police team team revisited the crime scene and called residents of the neighbourhood where the victim lived. They were shown closed-circuit television (CCTV) grabs. "In the beginning, Dhara was not identified in the   footage. A day later, when 10 more people from the locality were called to the police station and was made to watch the CCTV footage, one of them identified Dhara. This person, said a police officer, also tipped them off that he was employed at a jewellery shop in the locality - barely 400 metres from the victim's house.
 
 Dhara's lawyer, MD Mali, however, said that the police had framed his client. 
 
 On January 3, deputy commissioner of police Virendra Mishra had said that Dhara had confessed that he was a "peeping Tom". Mishra said that Dhara had confessed that he had gone loitering in the locality on the night of December 5 and had committed the offence after spotting the door to the victim's house ajar. 
 
 Mishra had also claimed that the police had enough evidence to prove Dhara's involvement in the crime.
 
 
