DEHRADUN: Author and senior journalist  , who was taken ill a day earlier, was referred to a private hospital in Delhi on Saturday. The former   bureau chief was in Haridwar on an assignment when he started bleeding from the rectal area and was taken to   (HIMS) in Jolly Grant, nearly 25 km from Dehradun. Tully was later referred to Max Hospital in New Delhi’s Saket area as his condition is critical.
 
  Doctors attending the 81-year-old senior journalist at HIMS told TOI that he was admitted at the hospital on Friday after he complained of stomach ache and was suffering from loose motion and vomiting for the past few days. It was then diagnosed that Tully was bleeding from the colon. “He was in hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) and was given blood transfusion. Tully was not only given two units of blood, but also platelets,” a source said, adding that he was referred to Delhi for further investigation as the focus of internal bleeding could not be located by HIMS doctors.
  
  Tully has undergone upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the hospital here. The hospital administration said that his vitals were maintained since his admission to the hospital but he continued bleeding.
  
  “Since he suffered active bleeding, it was planned to airlift him to Delhi. However, due to poor weather conditions, air ambulance could not take off from Delhi. We are now shifting him by road. An anaesthesiologist and specialised paramedical staff are accompanying him. Although his vitals are maintained, the administration decided to shift him due to active bleeding,” said HIMS medical superintendent Dr (Brig retd) Y S Bisht.
  
  Meanwhile, a source at Rishikesh’s Swami Rama Sadhak Gram told TOI that Tully was supposed to conduct an interview of one of the seers on Saturday, which could not take place due to his health conditions. However, Tully’s colleague, who was accompanying him, took the interview.
  
  “Since Tully has a rare blood group (O negative), and the internal bleeding is not stopping, a decision was taken to shift him to Delhi. His condition is stated to be critical,” said an official from Sadhak Gram.
