Panaji: A day after the senior counsel in the high court, Surendra Desai, said ‘no’ to Congress’ offer to take on chief minister Manohar   in the   for the   seat,   seems to have zeroed in on former Panaji mayor and long time BJP functionary in the capital city, Ashok Mogu Naik. “The Congress has approached me to contest the Panaji seat. Their leaders have spoken to me. But I need to speak to my workers and my well-wishers who are in different parties,” Ashok Naik told TOI. “I had been BJP mandal president for four terms and mayor of Panaji. Am not a new face in Panaji,” Ashok said. He was with BJP for 25 years.

 “Whatever names have come to us are under discussion and a decision will be taken on Monday. We are holding discussions with interested parties,”   Congress president Shantaram Naik said, while not denying that Ashok was one of the front-runners for the ticket
 
 Sources said the state Congress leaders are trying their best to convince Ashok Naik to contest on Congress symbol in Panaji constituency and are trying to bring together Naik’s supporters from other parties.
 
 Congress, sources said, was counting on Goa Suraksha Manch and disgruntled supporters of BJP to support Naik in the byelections. A section of AAP was also in favour of having a consensus candidate from the opposition.
 
 Naik is the first mayor of Panaji after the Panaji municipal council became Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP). During that period he was popular and even the opposition was with him as he would take opposition members too into confidence on major issues, sources said.
 
 “Any political force or social force that wants to defeat BJP in Panaji is welcome. I am not going to close the door for anybody who wants to defeat BJP and work with Congress,” Shantaram Naik said when asked if Congress was in talks with former RSS state chief Subhash Velingkar’s Goa Suraksha Manch.
 
 Ashok Naik clarified that at present he is not part of any political party. “I am not a member of Goa Suraksha Manch,” he said. In the last state assembly elections, after much hype, Goa Suraksha Manch which contested against BJP by aligning with MGP failed to make a mark. The party managed to poll just 323 votes.
 
 In case Ashok Naik declines, the party may consider three-four other names making the rounds in Congress circles. High court lawyer and the young face of Congress Yatish Naik, former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu and Babi Bagker are among the probable names.
 
 Former education minister Atanasio Monserrate’s decision to join Goa Forward Party delivered a major setback to Congress last week. This made the party scout for a “credible candidate” in Panaji.
 
 Sources indicated that former Congress legislator Jitendra Deshprabhu had also expressed a keen interest in contesting the elections in Panaji. Deshprabhu, who had taken a break from active politics, is trying to make a return and fancies his chances in the state capital.
 
 Yatish Naik also counts among the strong contenders within Congress camp with the party relying on the goodwill that he enjoys among civil society.
 
 There seems to be some dissatisfaction among Congressmen in Panaji as the party leadership is considering non-Congress members to fight the bypolls. 
 
 Goa Forward Party, an ally of BJP in the four-month old government, said Congress stood exposed of its strength. “Congress has begun to expose its bankruptcy by offering ticket to persons outside the party,” said GFP chief spokesperson Trajano D’Mello. “Is this what its former state president Luizinho Faleiro built?”
 
 
