DEHRADUN: An   in Rajaji on Friday night after   during the day, taking the number of   in the past eight months in the forest to 10. The deaths, however, were caused not from poaching, but other reasons such as railway accidents, electrocution and infighting.
 
  Officials are considering extreme heat to be responsible for the death, though they pointed out that a number of water holes were created to provide water to wild animals. Although the post-mortem had been conducted in the afternoon, the report was yet to come out.
  
  According to wildlife warden  , after the elephant went unconscious in the Friday morning, his treatment was started, but by the night his condition began deteriorating and he died.
  
  “Primarily, it seems that the jumbo died due to extreme weather conditions. However, the post-mortem report is yet to come,” he said.
  
  Rajaji director Sanatan Sonkar even pointed to a number of artificial water holes filled with fresh water in the park area to quench wild animals’ thrust. Even a few trenches have been dug up for elephants to take mud bath to cool off.
  
  “All the 10 elephants died either their natural deaths or of some other reasons such as railway accident, electrocution and infighting, but not due to poaching,” said Sonkar.
  
  Meanwhile, the partially-eaten body of a forester, apparently by a leopard, was found in the Motichur range. Forest officials and staff have been combing the area for the leopard.
  
  On March 29, an elephant carcass was found floating in the river inside the reserve, suggesting that the tusker might have slipped into the river and died of asphyxiation.
  
  On September 15, a female elephant and her bull died of electrocution in the Haridwar range, while a bull died on October 6 after it fell offs.
  
  A female elephant died in a train accident in Motichur range on October 15, whereas another female elephant was found dead in Kansro river in the Khanpur range.
  
  On November 30, a female elephant died of electrocution in Chilla range, while an elephant died after falling from a hillock in Rajaji on December 24. A tamed elephant, ‘Yogi’, died of some mysterious disease on February 4. The jumbo’s decomposed body was found on March 29 in the Haridwar range.
