NAGPUR: Even though 7,000-odd seats under free   (RTE) quota got oversubscribed by 300% in the district, only 36.79% seats actually got booked by the Monday cut-off date.

 Premchand Raut, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan ( ) coordinator, said, “Monday was the last day for parents to complete admission formalities and 2,612 school seats have been confirmed.”
 
 The admission statistics have come as a shock to many considering the overwhelming response the RTE applications received.   officials could not give a specific reason for the poor admission response but felt that statistics get skewed when looked in a broader perspective. An official said, “Though 300% more applications came in for entire district, if we could look at individual schools then the picture would change. Parents apply for specific schools and that’s what causes the seats available to applications received ratio to go haywire.”
 
 There are allegations that admission process got stalled at many places because there were issues with documents of parents not being accepted by schools. Major issue was related to address proof specifically of those people who lived on rent, but that too was resolved later. Raut said, “The earlier rule mentioned a registered rent agreement is mandatory for tenants, but now that has changed. What we require now is any government issued address proof.” He added that the registered rent agreement is required only if no government issued address proof is available. Raut said, “We noticed a problem that many in Nagpur had not registered their rent agreement, and wrote our director in Pune seeking resolution. Following our letter, the rule has been tweaked and now there is an option available.”
 
 Now with seats still remaining vacant, the education department will go ahead with another round of lottery. In fact, the lottery rounds will continue till all seats are filled up. However the students who got selected in the first round, and yet did not complete admission formalities, have forfeited their chance for the entire 2017-18 academic session.
 
 TOI had reported earlier that Nagpur district had created a record in number of applications received versus the seats available under RTE. Nagpur had a ratio of 3.22 applications per seat with Pune coming in second courtesy a ratio of 2.28. For 2017-18 RTE admission season, Vidarbha held an almost complete sway. The number three, four and five spots are occupied by Wardha (1.70),   (1.67) and Akola (1.38) respectively.
 
