CHANDIGARH: The   on Thursday asked the Haryana government to file an affidavit explaining the material on the basis of which it had constituted the one-man   to probe controversial land deals in Gurgaon. The panel had investigated land deal scope of Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra with DFL, apart from other transactions.

 Division bench headed by   K Mittal asked the Haryana government to file the affidavit by April 26, after hearing the arguments of former Union minister and senior advocate Kapil Sibal. He told the court that commission was not constituted for any public interest but to serve political motives.
 
 He argued that except a memorandum received from the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), there was nothing with the state government which could form the basis for constituting the probe panel. Seeking directions to set aside the constitution of panel, in an hour-long argument, Sibal also reiterated that the decision was taken by the chief minister without approval from the cabinet and a decision taken by CM alone cannot be the decision of cabinet.
 
 Haryana advocate general, however, argued that the panel was formed after following due legal process. Hearing that the bench asked the state to file an affidavit explaining the material that from formed the basis of the decision.
 
 The matter had reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda challenging the constitutional validity of the commission. Hooda alleged that the orders to constitute the panel were given by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on May 13, 2015, “at his own instance, prompted solely by malice, and to pursue his party’s political vendetta, with a clear intention of portraying him in bad light”.
 
 The former CM also questioned the validity of notification issued by state government on May 14, without there being any reference to the cabinet, which was mandatory in terms of provisions of Section 3 of the Act. Hooda also expressed apprehensions that present government might change certain portions of the report as those were likely to embarrass it. He told the court that it was for this the report of the commission of inquiry was being kept secret.
 
 On May 14, 2015, Khattar-led   government in Haryana had appointed one-man commission of retired judge of the Delhi high court Justice Dhingra to investigate licences issued to develop commercial colonies in Gurgaon by the Hooda-led Congress government.
 
