JAIPUR: Amid intense heat, the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital witnessed   on Sunday afternoon. Patients were literally left under the weather with many stepping outside the hospital premises to find relief.

 As per officials, due to some technical fault,   remained affected for over one-and-a-half hour. “There was no fault in SMS hospital’s electricity supply but some technical fault in the feeder of discom led to the  ,” hospital’s additional superintendent Dr Ajit Singh said.
 
 Around 2pm, the power supply was disrupted. Attendants and some patients admitted to the wards came out in the open. But those who could not come out remain inside the wards, sources said.
 
 After the power cut, the hospital administration immediately supplied electricity to emergency, ICUs and also in operation theatre. However, other units in the hospital, which are not connected to generators, faced difficulties. 
 
 “At a time when the temperature is hovering over 40 degrees, it is difficult to stay in ward. My patient is admitted to trauma ward, as he has undergone surgery. The fans and coolers are not working. There is intense heat inside,” Babulal, attendant of a patient said, who came to meet him on Sunday.
 
 Not only the main building, but other parts of the hospital including cottage wards and Bangar block where patients with heart and neuro diseases are admitted, were affected by power cut. The hospital administration claimed that the discom officials resolved the problem to ensure proper electricity supply in the hospital.
 
 In 2012, a major power failure had affected SMS Hospital’s emergency services. Patients on ventilators in   on the ground floor were shifted to ICUs on the first floor. Some parts of the hospital had witnessed total blackout.
 
 After that incident, the hospital administration had repaired all the electricity cables and made arrangement for backup power supply. However, on Sunday, power failure was due to technical fault in feeder of discom, which has nothing to do with hospital’s arrangement of uninterrupted power supply.
 
