PATNA: The CAG’s annual audit report for 2015-16 has raised objections to poor mechanism of checking vehicles whether they cause pollution or not.
 
  The report released on Monday says though vehicular pollution levels in Patna has increased as per the data maintained by   (CPCB), the scrutiny of records with the state transport commissioner’s office revealed the office was not maintaining any database of pollution-testing stations.
  
  As a result, the   could not monitor the standards of pollution-testing stations to ensure that the tests conducted by them are authentic and only PUC (pollution under control)-certified vehicles are allowed to ply.
  
  “Absence of any control by the state transport commissioner over the functioning of the pollution-testing stations may be a reason for the increased pollution levels in Patna,” the report reads.
  
  Transport department officials, however, sought to defend themselves. “There are 350 pollution test centres in Bihar and none of them was given licence without proper gas analysers. As for rise in number of vehicles, we cannot do pollution test on new vehicles for the first two years. On an average, five lakh new vehicles roll out in Bihar every year, out of which over 2 lakh run on the streets of Patna alone,” said a senior official in transport department.
  
  The CAG report, however, says the licences of 106 pollution- testing centres were not renewed between July 2007 and January 2016 as the state transport department did not maintain database for the centres.
  
  Union environment minister   too in a written reply given in the   on Monday said the air quality in Patna along with seven other cities in the country was found to be the worst. Patna ranks seventh in the country in terms of “poor” air quality as per the the air quality index observed between November 2015 and October 2016.
  
  In another finding, the CAG report has stated that driving licences for 3,188 applicants in West Champaran were issued without conducting any driving test.
  
  Accountant general (audit)  , while releasing the CAG audit report, said though the transport department’s software (Sarathi) indicated the licences had been issued, the corresponding registers did not have records for the same. “This indicates that the database of driving licences was tampered with,” he said.
