NEW DELHI: A fast bowler clocking above 140 kmhr is always an asset for any team and when it comes to Delhi Daredevils, they are flooded with such pacers. From Australia's Pat Cummins, South Africa's Kagiso Rabada and his country cousin Chris Morris to India's Mohd Shami - all of them can generate torrid pace. This, according to  ' coach TA Sekar, who himself is a former fast bowler, is the big strength of the team as it gears up for IPL-10.

 The Delhi outfit also boasts of having a seasoned campaigner in Zaheer Khan, the former stalwart of Indian pace bowling. With such riches at his disposal, captain Zaheer is spoilt for choice in this department ahead of the opening game against Royal Challengers Bangalore on April 8.
 
 "To have the likes of Pat (Cummins) and Kagiso (Rabada) adds teeth to our bowling attack. They are two of the best in the world. It will be great fun to interact and share ideas with them. That is the beauty of  . We have some other talented players and all this makes my job as a captain very enjoyable," Zaheer said on Friday.
 
 Of course, there could be worries. Zaheer hasn't played competitive cricket for close to a year and by his own admission, it's not an easy thing to do. But he has been preparing hard for the T20 league since December last and that is why he looks fighting fit.
 
 On the batting front, Zaheer doesn't agree that his line-up lacks experience. Besides, with the likes of Shreyas Iyer, Karun Nair, Rishabh Pant, Jayant Yadav, Mayank Agarwal and powerful West Indies allrounder Carlos Brathwaite in the ranks, the Daredevils do have enough firepower.
 
 Not to forget the experienced Amit Mishra who would be looking to continue his good work with the ball.
 
 Both Cummins and Rabada are playing in their first IPL and seemed excited with the razmattaz. "It is an absolute joy to be involved with a fantastic franchise like Delhi Daredevils. I could not have asked for a better opportunity. I have enjoyed bowling in India and hope to gain some more experience by bowling alongside the likes of Zak, Kagiso and Shami," said Cummins, who troubled the Indian batsmen no end in the recent Test series.
 
 "To make my IPL debut will be an exciting time. I have been looking forward to turning up for Delhi Daredevils since the auction. I have learnt a lot from the 2015 tour (to India). It will be great to build from there," Rabada said. 
 
