AGRA: Saffron organisations, from the Vishwa Hindu Parishad to the   and ascetics, in Mathura are up in arms against noted lawyer Prashant   over his controversial tweet suggesting the Uttar Pradesh government could rename the anti-Romeo squads as ‘anti-Krishna squads’.

 On Sunday, Bhushan tweeted, “Romeo loved just one lady, while Krishna was a legendary eve-teaser. Would   have the guts to call his vigilantes anti-Krishna squads?” The former AAP leader’s tweet was a response to his colleague Anupam’s tweet, “Anti Romeo Squad: India’s tribute to Shakespeare! Won’t be surprised if  , to fight eve-teasing, forms Anti Krishna Squad in retaliation!” (sic).
 
 VHP's international general secretary, S K Jain, challenged Bhushan to make a similar tweet against “the Prophet, who had many wives”. He said, “The former AAP leader has become frustrated as his business of supporting terrorists and rapists has shut down after the government’s action against such elements." 
 
 UP minister and BJP spokesperson, Shrikant Sharma, an MLA from Mathura, said, “It is unfortunate that people like Bhushan make such insensitive comments. I feel pity at his way of thinking.”
 
 Mathura ascetics too were furious at Bhushan, and demanded his immediate arrest for hurting their religious sentiment. Maharaj Mokshanand, one of the most prominent ascetics of Vrindavan said it was “shameful” that people were making derogatory remarks about Krishna. “Bhushan is making fun of Lord Krishna. This is unacceptable. An inquiry should be conducted and appropriate punishment should be given to him,” he said. 
 
 Convenor of Chatursampradaya, an umbrella organization of Vrindavan ascetics, Mahant Phool Dol Bihari Das Ji Maharaj denounced Bhushan’s remark as “atrocious and idiotic”. “If he has the guts, he should tweet about the gods of other religions. We will hold a meeting of ascetics and demand Bhushan’s arrest,” he added. 
 
 The national president of Gau Rakshak Dal, Dev Swaroopanand, called for a social boycott of the noted lawyer for “hurting the sentiments” of Hindus.
 
