JAIPUR: After 30-year-old history-sheeter   was shot dead by a masked man in   area of the city on Friday, the Jaipur police are probing the role of the city’s notorious   to trace the whereabouts of suspect   who is currently on the run. 

 A senior police official of the Jaipur police commissionerate told TOI that Keshar Singh and Sunil Lakhera had several long phone calls between Thursday night and early Friday morning, the duo had locked horns over a betting deal. “It seems to be a deal gone awry, what we know after two rounds of initial investigation are that Sunil had used some expletives which had irked Keshar Singh,” the official said. 
 
 To trace the main suspect, the police are delving deeper into the betting gangs, hoping to excavate some traces or whereabouts of Singh. 
 
 The police official said that Singh may have planned the murder long time ago as the broad day light murder was planned with precision and executed in about 10 minutes. “To carry out an attack in the midst of a heavy traffic with several people witnessing it , indicates that Singh had studied his target well ,” the official said. 
 
 The cops are following the trail with call detail records (CDR) of the victim, which showed frantic phone calls between the duo, and Singh’s crime record. “ Keshar Singh was involved in two cases related to betting offences, it is for the first time he had carried out such a heinous offence. His crime record has given us a brief insights about his hideouts,” a police official part of the investigation team told TOI. According to police, every criminal follows similar a modus operandi in every crime, hence, Singh might be traced very soon.
 
 The Jaipur police was caught off guard when the news of the shooting spread like a wildfire, cops at local police station drew parallels with infamous Himmat Singh murder case of 2015, and suspected the assailant to a be contractual killer. However, Sunil’s statement to the police just hours before his death exposed the involvement of Keshar Singh.
 
 
