CHANDIGARH: While   has earned notoriety for being one of the states with high number of sexual offences against women, a recent study conducted by the state police found that nearly three out of every 10 cases of rape registered in six months of 2016 were false.

 An analysis by crime against women branch at Haryana police headquarters has revealed that 170 (27.3%) of 622 rape cases registered from July to December 2016 in the state were found false. These cases were cancelled after due investigation.
 
 As many as 414 cases, 66% of the total 622, were found to be genuine. In these cases offenders have been arrested and are facing trials. Only nine cases, or 1.4%, could not be worked out and have been filed as untraced. 29 other cases are still under investigation.
 
 As per the study report, the rape cases that were found to be false were of honey traps, distortion and some were outright fabrication of facts.
 
 “The rape sections are sometimes abused to aggravate the crime actually committed to make life more miserable for the accused. While police is committed to act swiftly against actual sexual offenders, it is equally committed to prevent abuse of the stringent law against innocent people. In absence of strong perjury laws, false complainants most of the time get away lightly,” said O P Singh, ADGP (human rights & litigation), Haryana.
 
 Among districts facing the scourge of  , Yamunanagar is on the top. As 17 out of 30, which comes out to be 56% of total rape cases registered there during the said period, turned out to be false. Similarly, 17 out of 35 in Panipat, 24 out of 67 in Gurugram, 14 out of 76 in  , 13 out of 36 in   and 12 out of 39 in Karnal were found trumped up.
 
 Districts reporting fewer false rape cases are Ambala and Panchkula with two each out of 11, Rewari two out of 19, Jhajjar two out of 24 and Kaithal one out of 24.
 
 Mewat, otherwise infamous for abuse of this section of law, was among the districts placed in the middle — five out of 22 rapes registered in that period turned out to be false.
 
 ADGP Singh said that over 95% of rape cases registered in the period were successfully investigated and taken to their conclusion. Only 1.4% could not be solved. Field units have been asked to expedite the investigation of the remaining 29 cases. “We are for bringing truth out in the open quickly. Offenders should face the consequence unfailingly. Framed ones should walk free for sure,” he said.
 
 Jagmati Sangwan, noted women rights activist, however, said women alone couldn’t be held responsible for false cases. “There are many factors where women are being exploited, sexual exploited and forced to retract statements when any cases is registered. I believe that the police department should have involved some independent agency or some university/academic institute in the study for more accurate results,” she observed.
 
