It all began with a simple thought: Pedal to preserve the environment. “If every Indian cycled to work for just one day in a week, we would save millions of tonnes of greenhouse emissions, besides conserving fossil fuels, reducing traffic congestion and noise pollution,” says  , who cycled 15,750 kilometres across the country to inspire people to leave their automobiles at home at least for short commutes.

 Admittedly, he didn’t even own a bicycle before setting out to attempt to break the world record for the longest solo bicycle journey in a single country — held by Pune’s Santosh Holi who covered 15,222 km in 111 days. “I used to rent cycles from  , paying `50 for one-hour sessions to practise along with my friend Krishna every week. We filed the application to the   authorities only in December last year and then began to raise funds,” 
 recalls Sandeep, adding, “We approached many corporates initially, but had little success. Then we decided to raise money through crowd funding.”
 
 Their application was accepted by the Guiness authorities in mid February, but they were able to raise less than 10 per cent of the Rs 5,00,000 they needed. “We received only Rs 38,000 through crowdfunding,” says Sandeep. Just when it seemed like they had hit a dead end, friends from local cycling community and some good Samaritans came to their rescue. “We managed to raise `1,50,000 with which we could buy the cycles and GPS watch. That was the shot in the arm we needed. Even though we were still short of cash, we were determined to go as far as we can,” shares Sandeep, who finally embarked on the epic expedition along with Krishna on March 26.
 
  For the next 165 days Sandeep overcame innumerable challenges as he cycled through 22 states and Union Territories across the length and breadth of India. A couple of weeks into their journey, the duo found themselves strapped for cash when they reached Dharwad. “We just had Rs 300 in our pocket, of which we spent Rs 250 for dinner. The owners of the dhaba we ate in let us sleep there and gave us breakfast in the morning. We cycled all the way to Goa (about 150 km) with just `50 on us. We bought five oranges for Rs 20 and ate one piece at a time every 5 km. And once it was done, we bought a cucumber for Rs 10. We saved Rs 20 just in case we needed to buy water as a last resort,” recalls Sandeep. “It was summer still and our throats were parched. Somehow we managed to reach Goa.”
 
 A couple of weeks later, his friend Krishna suffered an accident at Kolhapur and decided to discontinue. “It was a tough decision to make, but I wanted to continue regardless,” shares Sandeep, who himself fell seriously ill when he reached Leh a month or so later. “I had to comeback to Hyderabad for about 10 days to receive medical treatment,” says the 26-year-old who resumed the expedition a couple of weeks later. 
 
 The scariest part of his journey was his ride to Khardung La, believed to be the world’s highest motorable pass, situated at an elevation of 5,359 meters. “The incline is so steep that I could cycle just 3-4 kilometres per hour. And for the last 10 kilometres there was no road; I had to negotiate through loose stones and streams. It was late evening already and I somehow reached   at about 8:30 pm navigating with my cell phone light. It was completely dark, there was a little temple. It was so cold, I was almost blanking out. That’s when army men found me and asked me, 'How did you come here? Civilians are not allowed to come here after 6:30!' I told them I didn’t know. They gave me food and sent me back to Leh in an army lorry at 11:30,” recalls Sandeep, who cycled through some of the harshest Himalayan passes such as Zoji La, Fotu la, Bora Su etc.
 
 It certainly was a life-changing ride for the resident of Qutubullahpur who returned to Hyderabad on September 10. “The expedition changed my whole perspective on life. From the icy mountain peaks of Himalayas to the searing heat of Thar dessert, I saw so much. And for close to 60 days of the journey, I lived off just one meal. I can survive anything now,” says Sandeep who is now awaiting a formal validation of his record or attempt to break the record.
 
 
