KOLHAPUR: The   has raided four places in the city including   and residential flats and one outside the city in the last two days.

 12 suspects have been arrested so far for their alleged involvement in the sex racket.
 
 As compared to last year, there have been an alarming rise in these rackets across the district posing serious question on women safety.
 
 Last year, eight cases were registered in this regard. According to the police department officials, the menace can be brought down if the residents will come forward and report on such illegal activities being run in their vicinity.
 
 In order to collaborate with the common public, the city police is also planning to float toll free numbers for common people so that they can reach out the police regarding any information on such illegal activities across the city.
 
 The police officials have also decided to increase patrolling around massage parlours and other places under suspect. They are also trying to gather information on such parlours operating across the city. 
 
 A police official said, “As far as illegal sex rackets are concerned, they are traditionally being run in massage parlours and in rented flats where the customers are called and the girls are presented before them.”
 
 Assistant police inspector in-charge of Anti-human trafficking wing of the   district Vidya Jadhav said, “There is a huge nexus being this business. They agents are able to continue to expand this business by frequently changing locations. We are trying our best to dig out the nexus.”
 
 “The police cannot nab the agents alone. We will need the support from people. It is impossible to reach out to every nook and corner of the city and find out where these illegal businesses are been carried out. If people can come forward and pass on the information to us, our task will become easier. We will be able to keep a check on their illegal activities,” she said.
 
 “If people decide that they will not allow such illegal businesses around their vicinity, we can keep a check on these illegal activities across the city,” she added.
 
