NEW DELHI: Controversial godman   found himself in more trouble on Monday with the Supreme Court directing filing of an FIR and ordering a probe against him for forging a document regarding his medical condition. 

 The court refused to grant him bail in a sexual assault case of a minor after it emerged that a letter allegedly written by the superintendent of Jodhpur central jail stating that Asaram has lost control of his bowel movements was forged. Surprisingly, the godman admitted that the letter was fake. His medical condition was, however, found to be stable by an AIIMS medical board constituted by the apex court. 
 
 Slamming him for filing a fabricated document before the court, a bench of Chief Justice JS Khehar and Justice NV Ramana directed police to lodge an FIR and conduct a probe against all persons responsible for misleading the court. “... the petitioner has relied on fictitious document... He admitted his lapse in placing the document before the court. The instant act constitutes a serious offence and can’t be let off merely by tendering an apology. We direct registration of an FIR,” the bench said. “We direct the concerned investigating officer to complete the investigation thereof at the earliest and, in case an offence is made out, initiate criminal prosecution in accordance with the law against all parties concerned,” it said. 
 
 The bench also dismissed his plea for interim and regular bail saying the accused was delaying trial and his medical condition was not serious enough to warrant bail. “The issue that boils down in respect of the medical condition of the petitioner is that he has difficulty in urination, emerging out of a condition described as prostatomegaly. We are of the view, that the present condition, is not such a serious condition, as would entail the transfer of the petitioner from one jail to another, or to require him to be subjected to any kind of specialised treatment, at some different station,” the bench said. 
 
 Asaram, 79, is presently lodged in  . He is being tried in a Jodhpur court on charges of rape, criminal conspiracy and other offences in connection with alleged sexual exploitation of a minor girl in his ashram. He is also facing charges of rape in another case in Surat in Gujarat and he has been in jail since September 2013. 
 
 Additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Rajasthan government, said Asaram was given treatment at the Mahatama Gandhi Medical College and Hospital at Jodhpur. “It is submitted, that not only the hospital specializes in the field of urology and kidney transplant, it also has all facilities to deal with the condition of the petitioner,” he said.
 
