BENGALURU: The   is all set to give a major boost to   in and around Bengaluru by developing its monuments and buildings linked to Bengaluru founder  .

 The government issued a notification constituting the   Development Authority headed by chief minister   to look into the protection and development of monuments associated with him. Energy minister D K Shiva Kumar was appointed its vice-chairman on Tuesday.
 
 “The contribution of Kempe Gowda to the development of Bengaluru is immeasurable. The authority will renovate several historical structures built by him and preserve slices of rich Bengaluru history,’’ said Shiva Kumar.
 
 The authority will be similar to those constituted for the development of Kittur, Kaginele and Sangolli Rayanna under the aegis of the state revenue department.
 
 According to the notification, the government earmarked a Rs 5-crore grant for the establishment of the authority and it’s expected to allocate at least Rs 50 crore in the upcoming budget. According to the notification, the Authority will comprise a 15-member committee. The authority will have jurisdiction over four districts -- Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru and Ramanagara -- where Kempe Gowda ruled in the 16th century.
 
 Though the move will help promote tourism, the Congress government is apparently looking to woo the dominant Vokkaliga community. “While the previous BJP government led by Yeddyurappa wooed mutts by doling out funds, the Siddaramaiah government is apparently wooing community votes through such organisations,’’ alleged a senior BJP leader who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
 Tourism minister Priyank Kharge said the move will go a long way in promoting tourism since the department has proposed starting a Kempe Gowda Legend Circuit for tourists to visit places of interest related to Kempegowda.
 
 According to city-based historians, Kempe Gowda built seven towers across the city but only four are protected monuments under the Karnataka Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1961. The four watch towers, popularly known as Kempe Gowda gopuras, are located at Lalbagh, Kempambudhi Tank, Halasur Tank and near Mehkri Circle.
 
 Kempegowda I, a chieftain of Yelahanka, built a mud fort in 1537 and established the little towns of Balepet, Cottonpet and Chickpet inside the fort. Today, these areas are major wholesale and commercial market places. The tomb of Kempe Ggowda built by Immadi Kempe Gowda was found after 400 years by Prashanth Maruru on March 7, 2015 but it is yet to be validated.
 
 Historical perspective
 
 When the construction of the Kempe Gowda Fort was nearly complete in 1537, the king faced a peculiar problem. Every time the southern gate was constructed, it would collapse at night. Astrologers advised Kempe Gowda that a human sacrifice, preferably a pregnant woman, would resolve the issue but Kempe Gowda found the idea obnoxious. Knowing her father-in-law's predicament, Lakshmamma, Kempe Gowda's pregnant daughter-in-law, decided to take matters into her hand and sacrificed herself to appease the gods. 
 
 A distraught Kempegowda later raised a temple and a memorial dedicated to Lakshmamma in present-day Koramangala, 6th Block. 
 
