PUNE: The ongoing work of a grade separator at the chowk, also known as Jedhe chowk, is expected to be completed soon, and the vehicular underpass would be thrown open for vehicles by the end of the month.

 The grade separator will provide a barrier-free ride for thousands of daily commuters who come from the   and want to travel towards Sarasbaug.
 
 The opening of this facility would be a huge relief for commuters who have been facing traffic snarls for many years at Swargate because of the absence of a direct access to cross the chowk.
 
 About 80% work of this crucial grade separator has been completed, and remaining work is expected to get over in the next three weeks, officials in the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation said on Saturday.
 
 An official said that the remaining 20% of work mostly involved laying stormwater drain lines. The rest of the major works have been completed, the official added.
 
 “It is crucial to avoid the accumulation of rainwater in the grade separator during monsoon. We have planned separate drainage lines up to the Ambil odha to ensure that rainwater drains out at the earliest,“ the official said.
 
 The Swargate chowk is among the busiest chowks in the city and has always been overcrowded with vehicles. It is a junction which provides direct access towards Satara Road, Solpapur-Saswad Road and to central parts in the city.
 
 The work on the grade separator was started in July 2016 and was expected to be completed in ten months.
 
 Regular commuters have said that the completion of the grade separator will bring huge relief to them as it would let them travel seamlessly, an option they had been demanding for years.
 
 The Swargate chowk already has a Y-shaped flyover that was opened last year to give direct access to traffic coming in from Satara Road and going towards the Saragbaug and Shankarsheth Road.
 
  Agarwal, who travels from Shankarsheth Road towards Sarasbaug every day said that the travel has been cumbersome. “Vehicles spend a lot of time to pass the chowk. During rush hours, vehicles queue up for at least 500m, sometimes even up to the previous chowk. The administration should not delay opening this any further,“ Agarwal said.
 
 Vehicles coming in from   and   would have to continue crossing the chowk because these vehicles still do not have a flyover or a grade separator to ease travel.
 
