NAGPUR: Additional principal chief   (APCCF) SS Mishra, who played a vital role in cracking high profile  , has won a 25-year-long battle against his own colleagues who had falsely implicated him in a corruption case.

 From a young IFS officer holding additional charge for five months as deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) of Nagpur in 1991 when implicated in a seedling transportation case, Mishra has turned old now and retired in July 2015. He is still surviving on provisional pension.
 
 Interestingly, the loss in the ‘seedling scam’, in which Mishra emerged victorious, was shown at Rs1.39 lakh but it cost Mishra over Rs7 lakh towards legal fees and other expenses in the battle for justice.
 
 On December 14, the former officer was acquitted by a special   court, Nagpur, as prosecution failed to prove charges against Mishra. There was no documentary evidence too. Mishra had also moved high court and the HC too set aside the anti-corruption charges against him on July 23, 2012.
 
 When posted as DyCF at Yawal (Jalgaon), on July 30, 1994, the state had initiated inquiry on the basis of a report by the PCCF AR Maslekar recommending action against 30 forest officers including Mishra for alleged large-scale irregularities in plantations from 1990-93 in Ambazari & Gorewada forest. Maslekar had also recommended action against several officers for accumulating disproportionate assets.
 
 After holding additional charge as deputy conservator of forests for mere 5 months, Mishra faced prolonged departmental enquiry for 7 years, up to 2001, and was exonerated only in 2012 after UPSC’s advice, which was obtained in 2004 itself.
 
 The height of harassment was that FIR in the case was registered in 1998 and prosecution sanction was issued in 2004, but after many corrections, the charge sheet could be filed only in 2010.
 
 Shockingly, this led Mishra to lose promotion as CF &   and all opportunities to work in the middle level management of the department and also on deputation in central government.
 
 Interestingly, almost other officers allegedly involved in this 'so-called irregularities’ went scot-free long back but for Mishra it took 25 years to finally come out unscathed.
 
 “Questions remain who will compensate for victimization of upright officers. Is the government not allowing real guilty to get away with lighter penalties,” a peeved Mishra.
 
 ENDS
 
 
