NEW DELHI: While sitting councillors are miffed at the party’s decision to not give tickets to them and their relatives,   is believed to have asked its MLA candidates, who lost in the 2015 assembly polls, to take charge of their respective areas. 

 Sources said these candidates will be considered for tickets in case of assembly bypolls—if the Election Commission rules against 21 AAP MLAs, who were appointed parliamentary secretaries. The Delhi high court had in September 2016 quashed these appointments since they lacked approval of the lieutenant governor.
 
 According to BJP members, the party will rope in some councillors with a good track record for organisational work. “Some of our sitting councillors have a bright future ahead. We will utilise their talent and energy in organisational work. Even our MLA candidates (who lost in the 2015 elections) will campaign for the party,” said Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who is heading the civic election management committee.
 
 A large number of councillors seem to have lost interest in the campaigning in the wake of the party’s decision. While some have joined AAP and Congress, others are contemplating switching sides or contesting as an independent.
 
 While other political parties have started campaigning on the ground, BJP is lagging behind as it is yet to start its election campaign and announce its candidates. Some insiders feel this might hurt the party. “While councillors are miffed, all the previous MLA candidates are working hard as they are hopeful of being considered for tickets in case of assembly bypolls. Even some councillors might be considered,” said a BJP functionary.
 
 In a bid to pacify the councillors, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari has chosen 26 corporators who will be given bigger responsibility in the party.
 
 In a bid to fight the anti-incumbency factor, BJP had taken the decision to field fresh candidates in the upcoming elections. Both AAP and Congress have been targeting the party for its inefficiency to run the corporations.
 
 
