Lucknow: In an attempt to increase employment opportunities, around 4,600 secondary education madrassas in the state will soon have compulsory   in maths, science, social sciences and home science. The Uttar Pradesh   Board of Education is currently under the process to change   for introduction of the new compulsory curriculum. 

 The move will affect over 6 lakh madrassa students in the state and is aimed to make them able enough to appear for competitive examinations on the lines of other boards. 
 
 Under the secondary education madrassas taking care of classes IX to XII which are recognised by the board, an optional modern subject is already the norm. The board and minority affairs department has now started the process to make two modern subjects compulsory out of maths, social science, science and home science. The primary and junior level madrassas already have modern subjects for compulsory study. 
 
 “Hindi and English are already compulsory while subjects other than Islamic theology and religion, Urdu, Arabic and Persian are optional and when we compared our syllabus with other boards, there was a gap,” said Mohammad Tariq Ahmed, registrar of UP Madrassa board. “In fact, though optional, a larger number of students opted for maths, followed by social sciences and science,” he added. Ahmed added that home science was mostly the first choice of girls under the board as their optional subject choice.
 
 The board that is currently looking at availability of teachers said there are 27,000 teachers in the state for teaching the modern subjects under the madrassa modernisation scheme. 
 
 It will be a new step in secondary education under the board, while experts said it was important since the knowledge of maths and science till at least class X was a requisite for several competitive examinations. 
 
 It was during British rule that madrassas which were earlier centres of Islamic jurisprudence, logic and philosophy, started to distance themselves from modern education as they began to look at western education with suspicion. 
 
 BOX: 
 
 Bringing on record
 
 Around 14,000 primary and secondary madrassas recognised under the district administration are also undergoing a process of data upgrading. Physical verification of the madrassas is being done following accusation that a number of them existed only on papers to reap the benefit of grants. 
 
 
