JAIPUR:   police have busted a sex racket and arrested, among others, a 26-year-old NRI who posed as a client to wealthy professionals, including doctors, builders, resort owners and jewellers.

 The woman allegedly had a relationship with the victims and then extorted money after threatening them that she would file rape charges if they refused to pay up. The victims readily paid up as they didn’t want their names to be dragged into a sex controversy.
 
 Ravneet Kaur, who was arrested from Kota on Thursday by the   (SOG), was part of the honeytrap racket that was busted on December 24. The story of Ravneet, who was born in Hong Kong and came to her village in Punjab’s   district in 2008 to stay with her grandmother, reads like a Bollywood script.
 
 She did a one-year course in investment management and in 2009, came to Gurgaon, where she stayed with a friend’s family. “In 2012, she met a man, identified as  , who was pursuing an MBA course from a private university where she was doing her BBA. They both fell in love,” said Karan Sharma, additional SP, SOG.
 
 The two wanted to get married but Rohit’s family opposed the match as both of them were jobless. “During interrogation, she confessed that rejection by Rohit's mother forced her to take the easy money route. Later, in 2013, she met the kingpin of the sex racket Akshat Sharma who offered her a job at Rs 12,000 a month. She also met the other gang members,” Sharma added.
 
 “The gang realised that the girl was desperate to earn money by hook or by crook,” said Sharma, adding that in 2014, Ravneet was sent to a leading builder in the city as a client. 
 
 Subsequently, the gang blackmailed the builder demanding Rs 1.2 crore and threatened to level rape charges against him if he didn’t pay up. “This was her first deal for which she received Rs 30 lakh,” Sharma said.
 
 “In February 2016, when she married Rohit, she had accumulated nearly Rs 1 crore plus and had blackmailed at least six men,” Sharma said. Interestingly, Ravneet’s husband was unaware of her crimes. She quit the racket after her marriage and “wanted to lead a normal life,” the SP said.
 
 She lavished the money on Rohit by buying him expensive gifts. “She claimed that she wanted to prove to the boy’s family that she could earn well,” he added. Ravneet suffered a miscarriage almost a fortnight before her arrest. Her husband brought medicines for her at SOG headquarters.
 
