Trichy: There has been no letup in the incidence of   including dengue in Trichy as number of the admissions in government and private hospitals in the city is on the rise nowadays. 

 Despite the advice by the public health department to refer fever cases to the government hospitals, particularly Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), people still remain in private hospitals. 
 
 The number of fever patients at private hospitals in the city was a perfect example of how people preferred private hospitals for such treatment. 
 
 A 38-year-old man from a residential area in Vayalur was admitted to a private hospital in the city for treatment for fever. The blood test revealed that he was affected with Dengue but his family decided to continue the treatment there. There were five more cases of dengue admitted at the same hospital. 
 
 The rest of the major hospitals in the city too have such cases in high numbers from Trichy and neighbouring districts. 
 
 In order to keep a track on the cases, the public health department was collecting details from the patients to analyse the reason for the fever cases. 
 
 Going by the recent data released to a select group of reporters by MGMGH, there are 103 cases of fever admitted in hospitals in the city as on Wednesday. Out of the 103 cases, 11 patients tested positive for dengue while 20 were suspected to have contracted to dengue.
 
 It may be recalled that the health and family welfare department took serious view of the increasing number of cases of fever in Trichy. Chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan and health secretary J Radhakrishnan conducted a review meeting with the district collector through video conferencing from Chennai last week to discuss about the measures being taken to prevent the incidences of fever particularly dengue in the state. During the meeting, the district collectors were asked to take all the possible measures to control the fever.
 
 The health department officials were instructed to keep the people updated about the cases of dengue to allay fears among the public over the fever. 
 
 
