KOLHAPUR: Water scarcity meant that brothers   and Balasaheb Sonule could not take up a crop this summer, but that hasn’t stopped them from leaving water and grains in their field for their winged friends.

 An endeavour that began during the drought in 2015, when Sonule left the ready-to-harvest jowar crop on the 10 guntha land and hung water pots for birds, continues with newer touch. 
 
 After their initial efforts got noticed, they won accolades and monetary benefits for their step. From the money, they dug a borewell in the farm and struck water at 400 ft depth. These days, the brothers have begun placing grain and water in the farm to feed the birds, who have become regular visitors. 
 
 “Due to the water shortage, I couldn’t harvest anything this season. We have, however, made sure that the birds get their food regularly. We bring rice, wheat, jowar grains from our home to feed them. Generally, three kg of grain is required to feed the birds so that their happy chirps reach us,” Ashok said.
 
 In the barren land in Gadmudshingi village, some 15 km southwest of Kolhapur, Sonule’s farm is like an oasis with its water beds, hanging water pots and water-filled borewell. The three-four   (Acacia Nilotica) trees on the border of Sonule’s farm and nearby fields have seen a stead rise in the number of sparrows, common myna, spotted munia and weaver birds. 
 
 The Babul tree with its thorns acts as a shield for the birds, as the snakes cannot reach them on these trees. “The number of nests is rising, so is the chirping. These birds are like a family now. They don’t fly away now when we are around, while we are watering or doing any farm work,” he said.
 
 Sonule, a retired Class IV employee of the Kolhapur zilla parishad, said the next generation of their extended family has begun taking interest in their endeavour — helping out in the farming and feeding to the birds. 
 
 These six-seven children, who are well under 16 years of age, accompany the seniors to the farm early in morning and again in evening to make sure the waterbeds in the farm remain hydrated even during summer. 
 
 Sajan Sonule, a standard VIII student, said he was happy to see his grandfather’s farm work and that he never misses the 200 metre trip to the farm from the home, almost every day.
 
 “My cousins — Rahul, Abhijeet and Suraj — also come along for the farm work. We clean the water beds every alternate day so that it stores clean water for the birds. Since the farm is a bit outside the village, there is nobody to disturb the birds. The otherwise barren area in the periphery means that our farm draws a large number of birds each day,” he added.
 
 The family is popular in the region and many farmers have approached them seeking guidance. “I always tell them, its not about the deed, but the intention with which they want to do it,” he said, adding that few have implemented the same pattern in their farm in the nearby villages.
 
