VIJAYAWADA: Pooh-poohing chief minister  's claims on attracting investments, YSRC senior leader   has said that the people are not ready to get fooled with such fake MoUs. He said not even 100 jobs were generated by the MoUs reached with several companies during the previous edition of the  . 

 Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Satyanarayana said the people of Naidu's home district Chittoor gave eight of the 12 MLA seats to YSRC because they knew him very well. He said the people in the rest of the districts too are aware of Naidu's false claims on flooding the state with investments. He said there are no tangible results in terms of   generation and setting up of industries from the so-called Rs 4.6 lakh crore worth of investments claimed to have been attracted during the previous summit. "The government says it had struck deals for Rs.4.6 lakh crore at the previous partnership summit last year. It says it has attracted Rs 10.5 lakh crore investments during this year's edition of the summit. They will remain only on paper," he said.
 
 The YSRC leader said Naidu's publicity craze had crossed all limits as he is claiming that even international delegates and foreign ministers are waiting for his appointment. He said Naidu had earlier claimed that he had built Hyderabad city and now he might repeat the same with Visakhapatnam city. 
 
 He criticised the TDP government for backtracking on the Special Category Status promise. He said YSRC would continue to fight for SCS despite the restrictions being imposed by the government. He rubbished the chief minister's allegations against YSR family. He said the people of the state are aware as to who were behind the killing of Vangaveeti Ranga, Pingali Dasaratharam and the suspicious death of an IAS during the NTR regime. All these incidents and the people behind the killings were clearly mentioned in the biography of former MP Harirama Jogaiah, he added.
 
 Satyanarayana said that even the much-talked about capital city Amaravati too failed to witness any development in the last 30 months of Naidu's rule. He said all sectors in the state are reeling under losses due to the unimaginative policies of the state government.
 
