CHENNAI:   government on Monday issued an order stopping supply of essential commodities under the public distribution system (PDS) to a sizeable section of society who are financially well off as per the provisions of the Food Security Act. However, a twist to the tale came within hours of passing the order through a clarification from food minister  , who said the GO was issued only to comply with the guidelines prescribed by the Centre under the Food Security Act, but the state government would continue with its universal  .

 The GO, which would remain just as a piece of paper for now, says households with air conditioners or an annual income of 1 lakh and above are not eligible to get any commodity from PDS shops. In effect, whether the state government implements its own order or not, TN would not be able to get Central food subsidy for ineligible families.
 
 "We have issued an order as per the Act as it is mandatory to identify the priority households. But as pointed out when the act was adopted by Tamil Nadu, the present universal PDS, which includes 20kg of free rice, will continue to be provided to all households irrespective of the provisions of the Food Security Act," food department principal secretary Pradeep Yadav told TOI.
 
 As per the GO, 9 types of households will fall outside the purview of PDS. "Households with an income tax payer, having professional tax payers, farmers owning 5 acres, government employees and retired employees, those who own 4 wheelers (except in cases where it is used for livelihood), those owning air conditioner, owning enterprises registered under any law and families whose annual income is more than Rs 1 lakh from all sources will not be eligible for PDS as per the Act," said the secretary.
 
 The act says only those households which are dependent on Antyoaya Anna Yojana, Annapurana Anna Yojana, families living below poverty line, old age pensioners, households headed by widows or single women and households headed by differently-abled persons are eligible to get commodities under PDS.
 
 There are many middle class households in the state which purchase at least sugar from PDS shops every month and give their ration cards to maids to purchase other commodities. “If the act is implemented in letter and spirit, it will prevent corruption and black marketing in PDS shops. Many card holders get SMS alerts about purchase of commodities from ration shops even without their visiting the shops,“ said retired bank employee S Saraswathi.
 
 Some sections feel the order, though not being implemented now, would come into force at some stage in future.“I am the only earning member in my family of 5 people. I am an income tax payer, but still depend on PDS for various commodities excluding rice. If the conditions as per the Act come into force, I am in for trouble,“ said a secretariat employee not willing to be named. Former chief minister   continued to oppose the Food Security Act till she was admitted to hospital in September last year.
 
