CHENNAI: The Madras high court has dismissed a   that sought a   probe into the multi-crore gutka-pan masala hoarding   which came to surface after an income tax raid allegedly revealed tax evasion to the tune of Rs 250 crore in Chennai alone.

 A practising advocate had filed the PIL seeking probe by a central agency, relying on the fact that Chennai city commissioner of police S George had written a letter to the home secretary of Tamil Nadu demanding a probe. It is believed that a diary recovered from the godowns and its owners contained the name of several top police officers.
 
 The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar, however, was not impressed with the submissions of senior counsel in the matter. 
 
 Wondering as to how a ‘confidential’ letter written by the commissioner to the home secretary had come into the possession of the PIL-petitioner, the bench sought to know what his concern in the matter was. When the official concerned had written to the home secretary, the court’s scope of intervening in the case was not there, it said, dismissing the PIL.
 
 According to earlier reports, Chennai city police commissioner George sought a “probe into possible wrongdoing by a few police officers” in the seizure of banned gutka-pan masala worth Rs 30 crore from various godowns in Red Hills and Puzhal in Chennai last year.
 
 The letter is said to be based on a preliminary inquiry that revealed graft charges against the officials who allegedly siphoned off a portion of the seized products. The police commissioner has suggested that an agency outside city police could conduct the inquiry and nail the suspects behind the scam. 
 
 On July 8, 2016, income tax sleuths raided the residences and offices of pan masala and   manufacturers in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The raid was conducted in 30 locations including seven near Red Hills and Puzhal in Chennai. I-T sleuths said the businessmen had evaded taxes close to Rs 250 crore.
 
 It is reported that during the raid, a diary was seized from a businessman's godown in Red Hills and that it contained the names of many politicians and police officers who were on the pay rolls of the manufacturers and sellers.
 
 
