NAGPUR: As announced in the budget, the Union ministry for health and family welfare, on Tuesday, approved nearly 2,000 seats for postgraduate   in government medical colleges and hospitals (GMCHs) across the country, as per officials from   sciences (MUHS), Nashik.

 It would bring smiles on the faces of thousands of aspirants who couldn’t afford the exorbitant fees charged by the private colleges. Importantly, it would help in slightly improving the problem of huge shortage of qualified doctors having specializations in a majority of hospitals in the country.
 
 The admissions to these seats would be made in the forthcoming academic session (2017-18). 
 
 A notification by the   (MCI) stated that the apex body had made the recommendation on March 20 for increase of PG (Board speciality) seats in clinical subjects at GMCHs, which were approved by the ministry. It clarified that formal letters of permission (Lop) to colleges will be issued separately.
 
 A proposal in this regard was drafted and approved by the MCI and later sent to the union ministry. Rajasthan got the largest number of seats (254). They were followed by Maharashtra with 194, West Bengal 184 and Gujarat with 158.
 
 The announcement to increase seats was made by Union finance ministry Arun Jaitley in his budget speech in February, with a view to bridge the gap between undergraduate and postgraduate courses and to strengthen tertiary care and improve the medical education in the country.
 
 Later, union health minister JP Nadda made it official stating that about 4,000 PG seats would be increased in the country taking the total tally to 35,117. Terming it as “all-time record number”, he had said the government decided to amend teacher-student ratio in clinical subjects in GMCHs. Of those about 1,897 seats are sanctioned in the first phase. 
 
 MUHS vice chancellor, Dr Dilip Mhaisekar, who was on the MCI panel, stated that over 400 seats were increased in total in Maharashtra alone. “Our pro-chancellor Girish Mahajan (state medical education minister) was keen on additional seats with a view to help genuine students. The demand in this regard was since 2009. Senior academician Dr   had moved the proposal in MCI’s general body meeting which was seconded by me.”
 
 He added that earlier the ratio of teachers to students was 1:2 for professors and 1:1 for assistant professors. “Now, a professor can guide three students while assistant professor can teach two at a time. The MCI has granted all these seats suo motu without any inspection. Time would be granted to the colleges to erect necessary infrastructure for increased seats,” he said.
 
 Quoting MUHS registrar Kalidas Chavan, TOI on March 2 had reported about government plans to increasing PG seats. He said the government was contemplating bringing amendments in the norms so that one teacher could guide three students instead of one. 
 
 The seats are increased across all branches in MS (Master of Surgery) and MD (Doctor of Medicine). Those included general and respiratory medicine, general medicine, psychiatry, general surgery, radio diagnosis, paediatrics, anaesthesia, orthopaedics, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT), ophthalmology, nuclear medicine, and Dermatology, Venerology and Leprosy (DVL). All these courses could be pursued only after MBBS.
 
 
