LUCKNOW: The last day of campaigning for assembly polls the city witnessed roadshows with candidates setting out from early morning in open vehicles followed by a convoy of cars, motorcycles and hundreds of workers on foot. 

 
 
 
 BJP candidate MLA Ashutosh ‘Gopalji’ Tandon campaigned with Muzaffarnagar riot accused and party state vice-president MLA Suresh Rana. Starting from Indiranagar A block, they had covered the entire constituency by evening. SP candidate Anurag Bhadauria rallied from Neelgiri crossing to Khurramnagar. BSP candidate Saroj Kumar Shukla’s supporters doubled as his campaign starting from Kaleva crossing ended back there. 
 
 
 
 
 Rajya Sabha member R K Sinha sought votes for BJP candidate Suresh Kumar Srivastava in Balaganj. BSP candidate Arman Khan visited door to door in Rajajipuram. 
 
 
 
 
 Padyatras were led by BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi and SP’s Aparna Yadav. Joshi went from Avadh Hospital crossing to Mawaiya and Aparna covered Alambagh, Mawaiyya, Jai Prakash Nagar, Sringarnagar Neelmatha and Kasaibada area of Sadar.
 
 
 
 
 Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav was the crowd-puller supporting the SP candidate here. SP MLA cabinet minister Abhishek Mishra and BSP candidate Ajay Srivastava came face to face at Daliganj around 2pm and greeted each other. BJP contestant Neeraj Bora covered Jankipuram, Vikasnagar, Niralanagar and Aliganj by splitting his team. 
 
 
 
 
 SP candidate Ravidas Mehrotra’s roadshow started from Vikramaditya Marg and culminated at Kaiserbagh via Aminabad, Nakhas, Aishbagh, Rajendra Nagar and City Station. BSP candidate Rajeev Srivastava met Sonkar community members among fruit and vegetable sellers. BJP candidate Brajesh Pathak rallied from Ramlila ground at Aishbagh to Rakabganj. 
 
 
 
 
 BJP candidate Swati Yadav met voters from Aashiana to Hindnagar, Bangla Bazar, Telibagh and Vrindavan colony. Samajwadi Party’s Anurag Yadav repeated his promise to voters visiting all localities of Sarojininagar. 
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was in the area to support SP candidate Ambrish Singh Pushkar. Union minister for state Anupriya Patel campaigned in Nigohan for R K Chaudhary fighting with support of Apna Dal and BJP. 
 
 
 
 
 Rajendra Prasad Yadav of Lok Dal went door to door, while Gomti Yadav of SP visited Takrohi masjid madrassa and later Palki and Burgadi. Avinash of BJP visited voters door to door.
 
 
 
 
 BJP candidate Jaidevi Kaushal went door to door with her women supporters. SP candidate Rajbala Rawat visited 30 several villages.
 
