Bhopal: Like the onion disaster unfolding in the state this year with lack of storage facility leaving procured stock to rot in open, during 2016 out of the 10.4 lakh quintal of onions that were procured 73% or 7.6 lakh quintal went rotten and could not be sold. Furthermore, the state government had to spend around Rs 2.88 crore just for destroying the rotten onions.

 With onion prices crashing to Re 1/kg, onion farmers were left with no option but to sell their produce at throw-away prices. When the issue escalated, the state government stepped in, and in June announced that it will be procuring onions from farmers across the state at Rs 6/kg. The initiative got an overwhelming response from farmers, who queued up at the 64 procurement centres the government opened across the state.
 
 In the process, the government ended up collecting 10.4 lakh quintals of onions, of which, nearly 7.6 lakh quintals got rotten. This was according to a reply given in the assembly to Congress MLA Shailendra Patel.
 
 “I wanted to know the truth behind the onion procurement and was shocked to find the reply. It clearly reflects that the entire exercise of onion procurement was to provide benefit to traders, middle man in the name of farmers,” alleged Patel.
 
 “It would have been better if farmers would have been provided monetary assistance instead of procurement of onions, because in this case also only 42% of Rs 109 crore has been spent on payment to farmers, remaining money has been spent on storage, transportation etc,” he added.
 
 He also said that the government should have started the procurement early in May instead of waiting for monsoons to come in June.
 
 In the reply, co-operatives minister Vishwas Sarang informed that a total of Rs 109 crore was spent on procurement, of these only Rs 62 crore was spent on making payment to the farmers at Rs 6/kg, whereas remaining Rs 47 crore was spent on other expenses. Among the other expenses, Rs 2.88 crore was spent on maintenance of rotten onions and Rs 40 lakh were spent on payment of interest against the amount used for onion procurement.
 
 
