JAIPUR: Rajasthan   president   accused   leaders of having prior knowledge about the currency ban which helped them to turn black money into white.

 He was addressing a protest meet at Civil Lines in Jaipur on Saturday. “Prime Minister   has to keep promises and meet targets made to the country over the demonetization move. The assurance that normalcy would return within 50 days has burst like a bubble as the country continues to suffer,” said Pilot, who launched a scathing attack on Modi and chief minister   for failing to control the situation arising from the currency ban.
 
 “The long queues outside every bank and ATM even after 60 days show the difficulties faced by the poor and middle-class families,” he said. The meeting held in Jaipur is part of the statewide protests planned by the Congress to raise the issue of currency ban and highlight the allegation of corruption leveled against the PM.
 
 “Despite evidence based allegations of corruption against Modi and Raje, the party which claims to be a party with a difference is keeping mum,” he said.
 
 Pointing to the difference between Congress and BJP, he said, “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has zero tolerance for corruption. She had asked leaders who were accused of corruption to resign from the post.”
 
 Continuing his attack, he put forward a series of questions to Modi and Raje: How did BJP leaders purchase land worth crores in Kota and in Bihar?; who knew in advance the currency ban plan?
 
 “I demand setting up a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to conduct a probe on how and who among BJP leaders came to know about the move,” he said.
 
 Later in the day, a similar protest was held in Tonk. Upbeat over the turnout at both the protest meets, Pilot said that the Congress party was receiving overwhelming support from the public in the protests against demonetization and allegations of corruption against PM across the country.
 
 Rajasthan in-charge Deependra Singh Hooda took a dig at BJP for changing the goalposts frequently over currency ban. “They started the move to curb corruption, black money and terrorism. Now, they have shifted the post to cashless economy. They have no idea of the pain suffered by countless Indians who have been facing inconvenience due to the cash blockade imposed on them,” said Hooda, who was present at both the rallies.
 
 
