The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls, said  ,   The painter-sculptor would have probably agreed that a bit of rough stone and water can be quite effective for such an ablution. To bear witness to the act, one needs to spend some time standing outside the exit of the  's   for a while.

 The solid looking low wall, painted uniformly in one overcast colour, gives no idea of the expense of the 40 acres of sculpture garden it earmarks. Lots have been written about Nek Chand and his Rock Garden, yet a walk with his son, Anuj Saini, can be quite revealing even for those who have frequented the place for decades.
 
 Much like his father, who loved to walk with the crowd undetected and often unrecognized, Saini too enjoys listening to visitors' reactions to the art installations and the landscaping done meticulously over the long years. The pleasure on his face is quite evi dent when someone moving with a huge group suddenly stops and steps back to contemplate some detail in the bent of a thick branch merging flawlessly with the manmade structure.
 
 “Few actually realize that my father conceptualized it as `Devi Devta Ki Nagri' (the city of goddesses and gods),“ he says, adding, “we hope to have an audio-guided tour for new generation visitors, so they can understand the place better.“
 
 The reason the gates are so small so that everyone, except the children, has to bow down, he starts explaining right at the entrance. He has some interesting bit of personal history to share or interesting detail to point out in the garden so full of rock sculptures and figures of dancing women and animals, many of them made from objects like the mudguards of motorcycles and bro ken bangles.
 
 He briefly goes over the periods of crisis, like when a road was to be built cutting right across the garden which was already one of the most famous tourist destinations of India.By the way he talks about them, it is clear that he holds no grudges against the bureaucrats who tried to either destroy or shut down the place. His is apparently more upset with those who, just because they were in control and had the zeal to show it, made changes that even today stand out like an eyesore.
 
 Saini, however, is full of praise for chairman of Rock Garden Society , Anurag Agarwal, who is also the home secretary of Chandigarh, “for his genuine interest and understanding“ of Rock Garden.
 
 The society is responsible for running the place. Nek Chand was its president but did not have defined executive powers. He, however, was the sole vision behind everything there till he was around.
 
 Superintendent engineer Yashpal Gupta is in charge and a junior engineer looks after the day to day work. However, Agarwal has a hands on approach when it comes to this piece of the city's history.
 
 “It has to be adobe of all kind of artists,“ Agarwal says. On the issue of several pending projects, he says, “Work was pending even when Nek Chandji was alive, we are now committed to complete the incomplete work as he wanted.“ “I was fortunate to get charge of the garden when he was still alive. We interacted for 4-5 months before he passed away . We have as members and special invitees in the society those who worked with him like, Harsh Kumar, (R K) Bedi, and, of course Anuj Saini,“ he adds.
 
 For the doubters as well, he has a few words: “There was a clamour after his death that the garden will stagnate and nothing will be done here. Yet it's being done.“
 
 The biggest challenge was to get things done, he says. “ A number of people look at it as engineering work but, of course, it's not that. I am also trying to develop passion in the staff,“ Agarwal adds.
 
 DAMAGE DONE
 
 1 Some of the `chabutras' built around huge trees were cemented over after the trees died. Given that the concept was to merge the whole structure with nature, new trees should have been planted at such spots.
 
 2 Bird holes, which Nek Chand purposely left in the high walls so pigeon and other birds could nest there, were closed. A senior bureaucrat disliked the “mess that birds created“ and had them cemented, little bothered with the fact that the creator of the garden wanted its walls to look historical and natural.
 
 3 Typical of a government, construction contract for a large portion was given to the lowest bidder. The contractor could not recreate the old bulging wall effect that Nek Chand had so fantastically brought to life. End result is half bulging and dimpled walls.
 
 Several institutions around us play host to hundreds, even thousands of visitors every day, functioning like a clockwork. We will try to capture here their internal workings. To add to this exploration write to us at feedback.chandigarhtimes@gmail.com
 
 VISION WAITING TO BE MATERIALIZED
 
 Museum dedicated to Nek Chand and the Rock Garden, which was planned almost seven years before his death
 
 Second exit, so that visitors go right up to the last corner of the garden and don't have to walk back to come out
 
 Taking Shape
 
 Nek Chand also used to make cloth dolls.
 
 As was his style, these were also made using the refused material, in this case cloth rags. However, with no place for them to be displaced for so long they fell into neglect.Now, his son Anuj Saini is designing a space within the garden. According to chairman of Rock Garden Society Anurag Agarwal, the doll museum will be inaugurated on June 15. This will be first major addition to the garden in a long while
 
 Unique Problems
 
 1 Getting material to replace or repair the damaged artefacts like: Old ceramic electric sockets Iron laced burnt coal that came from foundries Solution | More guards are needed to ensure safety of artefacts Preservation is a must to the extent that if a piece falls of from a walls, it is picked. It has to be placed back by those who know the original process
 
 2 Roack Garden is a government property and in its charge but not funded by it, which means projects and plans cannot be fast-tracked easily Solution | Efforts are on better manage resources. Automated ticketing machine and counter are on the cards
 
 3 Sticking to Nek Chand's vision and yet ensure the place evolves with time as it always has Solution | Involving those who have worked with him for long and understood his ideas. In addition, there are drawings that he signed and gave clearly showing what he wanted and how What's more, there is a Rock
 
 What's more, there is a Rock Garden Society in Europe, set up by people who loved his work.
 
 Artists of international repute keep coming to visit the place. The guesthouse within the garden is being renovated to provide better facilities to those deeply involved in the vision Anuj Saini
 
 Ties with the history
 
 Jaspal Bhatti's famous show `Ulta Pulta' started in the amphitheatre here
 
 
