MUMBAI: Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna said on Monday that the   benefit scheme which Prime Minister   announced in a televised address to the nation last Saturday is a rehash of a scheme launched by the UPA.

 “It’s a case of reheating stale ‘dhoklas’ with a dash of fresh chutney, or frying old onion ‘bhajias’ ... . However, this can be injurious to health,” an editorial said.
 
 Saamna criticized Modi for not setting a deadline to offer relief to common citizens who had to suffer because of his November 8 move to demonetise high-value currency notes. “The PM hasn’t announced the exact details of the black money which his government has unearthed in the last 50 days...He should tell us as to why people were subjected to cruel hardships...Tell us how many more citizens should lay down their lives (for the cause of demonetisation),” the editorial said.
 
 Saamna said the maternity benefit plan was not original. “Under Modi’s plan, a pregnant woman opting for institutional delivery will receive financial aid of Rs 6,000 in her bank account ... . However, the scheme was flagged off by the UPA regime in 2010, and was called the  ,” Saamna said. 
 
 The editorial said that the scheme had continued even after it was amalgamated with the national food security scheme, added Saamna.
 
 In a televised address to the nation on New Year’s eve, Modi unveiled a package of sops, including the maternity benefit scheme, which, the PM added, was aimed at encouraging institutional deliveries in order to reduce maternal and infant mortality. Saamna warned that Modi’s plan to offer 60 days’ interest waiver on loans for rabi crops would be a non-starter because of the precarious financial condition of the district cooperative central banks.
 
 “The RBI has declined to accept old and cancelled notes deposited in the district cooperative banks. The PM’s waiver announcement will add to the woes of these banks. They lack the financial strength to suffer the fresh burden. Worse, the Centre is yet to release this year’s rabi crop aid to these banks,” the daily said.
 
 Recalling the case of  , a young man from north India who had no cash to perform the last rites of his mother, Saamna said: “Chhotalal couldn’t get Rs 2,000 from the bank to arrange for his mother’s funeral. There are lakhs of such Chhotalals across the country ... . They are cursing the government.”
 
 Signing off, Saamna said: “We have affection for Modi...but stating truth is an act of not crime but ‘deshbhakti’.” 
 
 
