Madurai: A public interest litigation before the Madras high court Madurai bench has prayed that sufficient percentage of reservation be allotted for students of government schools with regard to MBBS admission in Tamil Nadu as those from private schools got 99% quota in MBBS admission, but those from government schools got only 1 per cent. 

 On this petition, a division bench headed by Justice A Selvam on Monday ordered notice to the state’s chief sectary and health secretary and the vice-chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University and adjourned the case to April 11. 
 
 D Raju, an activist from Ramanathapuram filed the PIL. When the petition came up for hearing, Raju’s counsel said that the petitioner obtained information under the Right to Information Act from the university with regard to MBBS admission. 
 
 According to it, the total number of MBBS seats available between 2009-10 and 2016-17 in government medical colleges and under government quota in private medical colleges was 35,357 seats (29,225 in government and 6,132 under government quota in private colleges). Out of these 35,357 seats, only 278 students from government schools got admitted in all these years. It was said that it was due to the poor percentage of marks obtained by the students from government schools. 
 
 Knowing the facts very well, the government which allotted Rs 85,000 crore to the education department in the last five years, had not taken any action to rectify the differences and to improve the academic standards of government school students. The money spent by the government, salary given to teachers were also high when compared to the private schools’ administration, the counsel said.
 
 Most of the children studying in government schools belong to families of agricultural, construction labourers and marginalised section of the society. It is the fundamental duty of the government to maintain equality among its citizens. If much attention is given to students’ education they would improve all their ability and skill besides securing more marks equivalent to those from private schools. 
 
 Hence, it is necessary in the prevailing situation to conduct a detailed study by experts as to how the standard of education in government schools could be improved and to direct the government to reserve a sufficient percentage of seats in MBBS admission for students from government schools. Otherwise, after a few years, a situation would arise wherein the possibility of a student from a village becoming a doctor would become remote.
 
 Following it, the bench ordered notice to the government.
 
 
