Hyderabad: The rampant burning of waste and dust generated due to construction activities in the IT belt are forcing residents to deal with high levels of pollution year-round.

 “New constructions are coming up in this area on a daily basis,” said Sravan Goud, a resident of Gachibowli, pointing to the Gachibowli-Miyapur and Gachibowli-Financial District roads as some of the most polluted areas. 
 
 Environmentalists blame the open blasting of rocks, a rampant practice in this part of the city, for the ever-increasing pollution. While the National Green Tribunal ordered a ban on stone crushing activities in Delhi-NCR in November last year, nothing of this sort has been done in Hyderabad.
 
 “Hyderabad, located on the Deccan plateau, has an abundance of rocks. Builders are seen blasting these rocks on the roadsides without any proper covering and increasing the suspended particulate matter in the air. The GHMC must put an end to this practice,” said environmentalist K Purushotham Reddy.
 
 The effects of this kind of pollution, say pulmonologists, can range from mild bronchitis to progressive breathlessness.
 
 “The dust generated through construction activities can cause obstructive and reactive airway diseases and a condition known as allergic bronchitis. Blasting of rocks, which release micro-sized stone particles into the air, can cause silicosis, an occupational lung hazard. The small stone particles enter the bronchial airways and settle there permanently. This, in turn, causes progressive breathlessness,” said Vyakarnam Nageshwar, pulmonologist. 
 
 Environmentalists now recommend certain methds to ensure that the pollution generated by construction does not linger.“Builders and realtors are cordoning the construction site up to a certain height and scaffold sheeting. This is not enough to prevent particulate matter from being released into the air. In the West, mist, which contains tiny droplets of water, is pumped out whenever dust is generated.,” said Reddy.
 
 
