Kolkata: The Centre and Reserve Bank of India ( ) will have to reply within eight weeks why   notes in the country can’t have photographs of   or any other important personality, the Calcutta high court directed on Friday. 

 The bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty was hearing a PIL by city resident Prithwish Dasgupta. 
 
 On February 23, Dasgupta wrote to the Union finance minsitry and the RBI governor, praying for ‘incorporation of the pictorial representation of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on banknotes of all denominations or in the alternative removal of the pictorial representation of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi from banknotes’. On receiving no response, Dasgupta moved the PIL through counsel Phiroze Edulji. 
 
 It was submitted by Edulji during hearing that: “Netaji has taken his place with the likes of Rana Pratap and Chatrapati Shivaji as a national figure in the heroic tradition. Rarely do we find somebody of the calibre of Netaji. His organizational and leadership skills need no introduction. Though Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru have garnered much of the credit for successful culmination of the Indian freedom struggle, the contribution of Netaji is no less.”The petitioner submitted several documents in the court to support his claim. These include the history of the Azad Hind Bank, established in April 1944 along with photographs of its currency notes. Dasgupta also submitted a history of the Indian rupee and its evolution. “After August 15, 1957, symbols for independent India had to be chosen. At the outset it was felt that the King’s portrait be replaced by a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi. Designs were prepared to that effect. In the final analysis, the consensus moved to the choice of the Lion Capital at Sarnath in lieu of the Gandhi portrait,” it was submitted. 
 
 According to the petitioner, it was in 1969 that a commemorative design series in honour of the birth centenary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi was issued depicting a seated Gandhi with the Sevagram Ashram as the backdrop. The Rs 500 note was introduced in October 1987 with the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi but the watermark continued to be the Lion Capital. A new Mahatma Gandhi series was launched in 1996 with advanced security features. While pointing out that even the US has announced changes in portraits on currency notes, Dasgupta also challenged a 2010 RBI panel report that declared: “no other personality could better represent the ethos of India better than Mahatma Gandhi.” He has pointed to the fact that images of leaders like Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi have appeared on coins and the portraits of several personalities can be found on postage stamps. 
 
