Prime Minister   on Monday inaugurat ed the   at the Helipad Ground in Gandhinagar along with the Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor Summit with a click on a laptop.
Chief minister   accompanied the PM. Russia's deputy PM Dimitri Rogozin and Poland's deputy PM Piotr Glinski also accompanied the PM. The PM visited the stalls of Japan, Russia, Poland, UAE, Thailand, USA, Britain, Sweden and various summit partner and participating countries as well as those of Indian and foreign companies and the Indian defence pavilion. The PM also interacted with a few foreign participants at the Russian, UAE, Japan and Poland stalls.He also visited Arunachal Pradesh state stall and also visited a theme pavilion on Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel's life. PM also visited a pavilion of Banking Sector promoting Cashless and also visited stall of Income Tax department.
 
 Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show (VGGTS) 2017 is being held on a gross area of some 1,50,000 sq m. VGGTS 2017 is the largest exhibition in the country has 14 themed halls, including an exhibit area with nearly 1,500 stalls. VGGTS 2017 will provide a forum for global businesses from over 25 different industry and social sectors to showcase themselves. The 2017 edition has nearly 1,500 companies participating.About 1.5 to 2 million visitors are expected. International delegates from a large number of countries are also expected to visit the exhibition.
 
 Some of the major pavilions at VGGTS 2017 are automobiles, agro and food, aerospace and defence, energy and petrochemicals, environment, healthcare, pharma, biotech, engineering and manufacturing, urban mobility and infrastructure, maritime, R and D, IT ­ ITES and financial services, skills and education, textiles and special focus pavilions on international organizations, women entrepreneurs, MSME and startups.
 
 The exhibition has been designed to achieve representation from the corporate sector, the public sector, PSUs, innovations, startups, MSME, women entrepreneurs as well as from other countries. A separate exhibition on the   has also been displayed.
 
 All visitors and delegates are offered free wifi internet during the event. More than 150 hotspots have been set up at the global trade show and an additional shareable telecom tower has been set up along the route from the airport to Mahatma Mandir. This infrastructure is shared with all operators to ensure seamless connectivity and was completed in a record time of 30 days.
 
