HOWRAH: She was   at Belur Math on Ashtami, with monks worshipping the five-year-old from Belur Shib Chandra Chatterjee Street. On Sunday, Ayantika Mukherjee preferred to stay glued to her favourite cartoon shows than ponder over her cosmic connection. Though the monks believe that this little girl had all the manifestations of the divine mother, the human idol of this year's `Kumari Puja' could hardly recall what happened when she was worshipped.

 Leaving her favourite `Tom and Jerry Show', she came out of her room only once on Sunday. Stretching her arms upwards in a form of blessing, she said, "Ami chai sokoler valo hok (I want everyone to be happy)" and went back in. "She doesn't want to be disturbed when she is watching `Tom and Jerry' or `Chhota Bhim'. These are her favourites," said Ayantika's mother Ananya.
 
 Explaining how Ayantika became the living idol at Belur Math, Ananya said: "There was an advertisement on the Belur Math website about it and we filled in the form. In June, we were asked to take our daughter to Belur Math. There were several tests and finally President Maharaj Swami Swarananandaji critically observed all the girls present there. When we were told that our daughter was chosen, we were overwhelmed. This was one of the best moments in our life," said Ayantika's father Subhrojit.
 
 "Sri Ramakrishna had said the divine mother manifests herself more in a pure hearted girl. That is why   is done. The girl has to go through several tests and there are certain manifestations which are necessary to become the human idol. The selection process is completed in June. Since this year's chosen girl was over five years old, she was worshipped as Uma," Swami Shuvakarananda, law and media in-charge of Belur Math, told TOI.
 
 "I don't know what they observed, but my daughter is a worshipper of Swami Vivekananda and Goddess  . She sits for puja with her mother every day and we didn't have to teach her any of the things required for the tests," said Subhrojit, a senior manager of a multinational company.
 
