HOWRAH: For some 10 minutes on Tuesday evening, a second-floor flat in   witnessed a   in real life. Two women, aged 28 and 30, fought off   who barged into their flat around 8pm. After taking hard hits from the women who also managed to unarm them, the youths took to their heels amid screams for help by the women and their four kids.

 When two youths knocked on the Singh family’s Upendra Ray Lane flat, Rinki and her sister-in-law Neetu opened the door. Suddenly, one of the youths brandished a gun and aimed at Rinki’s head, pushing her further into the flat. The robbers entered and shut the door. But the duo had clearly not estimated the martial skills and mental frames of the sisters-in-law. 
 
 Rinki landed a hard blow on the face of the youth who held at gunpoint. The intensity of the punch was enough to push him to the ground, while his weapon fell off his hand. Rinki seized the opportunity, and kicked the gun to one corner of the room. Enraged over Rinki’s display of courage, the fallen youth’s partner hit her but slightly lost his balance in the process. Neetu came to her sister-in-law’s rescue and punched the youth who had hit Rinki. He too fell on the ground. 
 
 All along, the two woman and their four kids ranging from toddlers to an 11-year-old screamed to alert their neighbours.
 
 By then, perhaps realizing the strength of the women and fearing their screams would soon draw a crowd, the robbers barged out of the flat and fled he building. 
 
 Rinki’s husband Anil runs a mobile store on the ground floor of the same apartment while his brother, married to Neetu, runs a shop elsewhere. “As we run businesses, people do come home sometimes with queries. That’s why I opened the door. But I was taken aback when the youths turned out to be   robbers.”
 
 A senior police officer later said, “We have recovered a country-made gun without any cartridge loaded in it from the Singh residence.” ACP (south) Gulam Sarbor said, “We are investigating the matter and looking for the culprits.”
 
 
