VARANASI: The last two phases of the election are likely to test the public appeal of major development works undertaken by the Centre in railways in areas such as Ghazipur, Ballia, Azamgarh and Mau, which have remained largely ignored for new projects since Independence.
 
  Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to select Ghazipur MP Manoj Sinha as Union minister of state for railways has much to do with the special focus for the allotment of new development projects for eastern Uttar Pradesh.
  
  The new projects undertaken by railways are expected to connect the   with the farmers and poor people in this region.
  
  Apart from expansion and beautification works for Manduadih railway station to ease pressure on Varanasi Cantt railway station and introduction of escalator facilities at Manduadih and Ghazipur railway stations, the Centre has sanctioned major projects such as doubling of Mau-Ghazipur-Tarighat new railway line (at a cost of Rs 845 crore), doubling of Varanasi-Madhosingh-Allahabad city railway line (Rs 702 crore), electrification work of Ghazipur-Aurihar-Manduadih-Allahabad (Rs 100 crore), construction of rail overbridge at Manduadih crossing in Varanasi (Rs 42 crore) and electrification of Chapra-Ballia double line (about Rs 200 crore). Work on all these projects is in progress.
  
  Ghazipur, Ballia and Mau are among the most backward regions of the state from where people used to migrate to big cities such as Kolkata, Mumbai and Delhi by train in search of employment.
  
  Railways minister Sinha has introduced a number of trains originating from Ghazipur. For example, Suheldev Express runs between Ghazipur and Anand Vihar terminal in Delhi three days a week.
  
  The decision to name the train Suheldev Express clearly indicates BJP's plan to play the "development with caste, card in this region on the pattern of Bihar, where Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has successfully cultivated the most backward castes as his party's vote bank. Suheldev is projected by Rajbhars as a king and is thus, their icon.
  
  Another new train, Shabdabhedi Express, which Sinha has introduced, runs between Ghazipur and Kolkata. Earlier, there was a lack of fast trains connecting Kolkata with Ghazipur and Ballia.
  
  Most of the residents of Ballia district had to catching a train from Buxar or Varanasi in the past.
  
  "The situation is such that even people from Varanasi who fail to greserved berths in the trains originating or crossing from Varanasi, now prefer to go to Ghazipur to catch Suheldev Express, which passes through Sultanpur-Lucknow-Moradabad railway route,, said Kamlesh Singh, a passenger at Ghazipur railway station.
  
  Besides these projects, railways ministry has selected a place near Ghazipur Ghat railway station to construct a cargo centre for perishables.
  
  This centre is meant to help the farmers who grow vegetables and fruits in this region. The project is all set to start functioning very soon.
  
  Almost all the railway stations which fall in Ghazipur, Ballia and Varanasi have got a new look, with railways ensuring augmentation and upgradation of passenger amenities. These stations include Jakhania, Sadat, Dullahpur, Saidpur Bhitri and Aurihar.
  
  In the last two years, the projects which have been completed by railways in PM Narendra Modi's Varanasi Lok Sabha seat include mechanised laundry for cancer hospital, provision of additional entry with cabway and upper class transit lounge, and provision of 120 low-cost shelters for passengers at various stations in Varanasi division. 
