NEW DELHI:   ( ) finally has a new chief. The chairman’s position had been vacant since February after retired bureaucrat   completed his second term. Moreover, the body has been without members since July 2015.

 Retired IAS officer Ramesh Negi, who assumed charge on Wednesday, hopes to secure the rights of children and their safety and also bring focus on  . However, he will have to wait to make DCPCR a useful forum as the appointment of the remaining six members is still awaited.
 
 Government sources said that the process for appointing the members is expected to be completed soon.
 
 A 1984 batch (Agmut) cadre officer, Negi has led key departments in Delhi government, including Delhi Jal Board, and as principal secretary (urban development) till July 2016. He was the chief secretary of Arunachal Pradesh when the AAP government came to power in Delhi in 2015. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had fought with the Centre when the latter refused to appoint Negi as chief secretary after the then incumbent DM Spolia retired on February 27, 2015.
 
 Negi finally came to Delhi in March 2015 and retired in July next year. The AAP government was then seen pushing for him to be the new State Election Commissioner for Delhi, but that could not materialise.
 
 The official’s appointed as the DCPCR chairman makes it evident that the state government wants to give an impetus to the neglected child rights body.
 
 In May 2016, TOI had reported the status of vacancies, among other issues, linked to the welfare of children in states and Union territories. The data was filed by Union ministry for women and child development before Supreme Court.
 
 Regarding the six members of DCPCR, the state told Supreme Court that “the earlier members had completed their tenure and now the matter of appointment is under the consideration of the government.” Since then, many names have been proposed but no action taken.
 
 The members have an important role in the functioning of DCPCR as each is assigned districts to handle, expedite cases and follow up action on the complaints. Also, members undertake subject-specific work as child welfare has many laws requiring in-depth understanding on various subjects, including Juvenile Justice Act, Right to Education Act and laws linked to cases of child sexual abuse.
 
 The primary work of DCPCR includes looking into complaints or taking suo motu notice of cases involving violation of constitutional and legal rights of children. The members are also tasked to monitor implementation of laws and programmes relating to the survival, welfare and development of children. They also recommend remedies to children in need of special care and protection. These include juveniles, those without family, wards of prisoners and children in conflict with law.
 
