All of 22,   is not just winning hearts as the cute but manipulative wife,   in her first serial   but is a successful TV host as well. The Trivandrumite started her career as a child as VJ in a popular Malayalam television channel, but says acting is quite challenging, admitting that she is nothing like her onscreen character. In a quick chat, the chirpy actress talks about her journey on screen.

 
 
 
 My tryst with the camera started when I was in Class III. I started off as an anchor with the show Butterflies and bagged the State Award in 2005 for Best Anchor for that show. My love for anchoring helped me bag more shows including Just For Kids which I started anchoring from Class VI and continued till Class X. Asianet is my second home so when I was approached for a serial from the channel, I didn’t want to say no.
 
 However, anchoring is still my first love and I enjoy hosting my present projects like Hot and Spicy, a cookery show and Komady Circus, a comedy programme.
 
 
 
 
 Nayana is an unconventional daughter-in-law and has shades of grey. Though she might seem cute, she is manipulative. She is not a villathi but a ‘problem creator’ at her in-laws’ house. Acting was entirely new for me, and quite challenging, compared to hosting a show. The first scene was Nayana’s wedding and ‘first night’. It was a Herculean task to act coy and romantic. Nayana has to hand over a glass of milk to her husband Nandan, played by actor Ronson Vincent. The shot started at 7pm and ended only at 10.30 pm (laughs) with a lot of takes. But now, the show has completed more than 200 episodes. Bharya taught me acting. 
 
 
 
 
  The way Nayana hums often in the serial is apparently quite popular. I’m able to do it because I share a good chemistry with my dubbing artist Parvathy who dubs for Nayana in the serial. However, after becoming an actress my friends in college don’t take me seriously (laughs). Even if I excuse myself from something genuinely, they make fun of me saying, ‘be an actress in front of camera, not in front of us’ (laughs). 
 
 
 
 
  I am totally opposite to Nayana in real life. A pair of jeans, a top and a pair of sneakers is my dress code off camera. As I had to commit to Bharya at short notice, I would wear sleeveless kurtis and had coloured hair as well. But I received good feedback for it, that I was a trend setter who broke the conventional marumakal look with several studs in my ears.
 
 Being the only child of my parents, I was trained in everything including riding a bike which is my craziest hobby. My mother taught me how to ride a bike. I also love racing cars but I ride safe. I’m not a professional but I am comfortable with automobiles. I am waiting for my own bike and owning a Ninja bike is my dream in life. While girls of my age spend on shopping, my salary goes to modifying the interiors and exteriors of my cars.
 
 
 
 
 At present I am doing my MBA in Christ University, Bangalore. My dream is to work in the automobile industry but I also want to do anchoring and acting along wise. It’s my father’s dream that I should act in a film. I have received a lot of film projects but all of them have romantic or dramatic scenes which I can’t do. I wish to do bold roles like that of Phoolan Devi or that of Dhansika in Kabali. Romance is not my cup of tea, action roles excite me more.
 
