PUNE: The Wanowrie police have booked a   proprietor for allegedly collecting information on debit cards of UK nationals to cheat them. 

 The FIR was registered on Friday after the police received a complaint via email from the   ( ), New Delhi on April 27.
 
 A police officer requesting anonymity said, “The CBI on April 19 had arrested a Nigerian national Tiamiya Adedamola Williams from Undri near Pune in an alleged   case. The interrogation of the suspect revealed that he was working as a manager in the call centre. CBI officials grew suspicious after he revealed vital details about the functioning of the call centre.”
 
 The officer said, “CBI deputy superintendent of police K Pradeep Kumar and his team searched the call centre and discovered that it had collected data from around 100 debit cards belonging to UK nationals.”
 
 “The CBI had suspected that the proprietor may have fraudulently collected the data comprising   numbers, their expiry date and card verification value numbers to cheat the concerned card owners. The CBI initially filed a complaint application with the police to conduct an inquiry against the proprietor. On April 27 it sent an official email complaint to the police to register an FIR,” the officer added.
 
 The complaint was registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and 66 (d) (punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act. 
 
 The proprietor, who holds a commerce degree, had been running the call centre in a rented flat for eight months. He had recruited eight employees to attend after-sales complaints of a satellite television company. The employees had randomly called nearly 20 UK nationals, but there is no prima facie evidence to show that any access payment was taken from them, the official said.
 
 Williams was recruited as manager because he was in need of job. He later quit the job prior to his arrest, the official said.
 
