KOLKATA: The Bengal government’s strained relationship with the Centre hasn’t come in the way of a beautification project for   and   temple. A   of Rs 30 crore has been cleared for the purpose by the central government. 

 The approach road to   Math from the Belur station and GT Road will be widened. Car parking facilities at both the places will be enhanced. Moreover, the entire area around Belur Math and Dashineswar will be declared plastic-free zones. The ferry ghats on both sides will be beautified with floating jetties. Plans are afoot to set up parks along the river banks with high mast lights.
 
 Giant screens outside the Arati Griha at Belur Math have also been planned to allow more people to witness the evening prayers. The pavements will be beautified as both the spots have a huge turnout of tourists every year. Keeping in mind the large number of elderly people who visit   temple and Belur Math, battery-operated buggies will be operated at both the spots, state tourism secretary Ajit Ranjan Bardhan said. User friendly resting places are being designed. 
 
 A reservoir will be set up for providing drinking water in Belur. Since tourists mostly travel along river, the state plans to restrict number of passengers to be ferried on boats with life jackets in all boats. Tourism department now plans to promote Dakshineswar and Belur as major tourist spots for they are close to the city and can be easily accessed with the Metro service set to connect Dakshineswar with the city.
 
 Bardhan said, “There are plans to set up cafeterias on both sides of river banks. Tourism department has plans to ferry boats from Babughat to Dakshineswar and Belur on weekends, so that the tourists from Kolkata can easily reach the two spots and be back home in the evening.” He added that as the Centre has agreed to provide Rs 30 crore, a new project plan with some additional components has been submitted, for which he expects the grant will increase. At Dakshineswar, there will be several resting centres for the tourists along with cafeteria. Even a number of toilets of international standard will be there. A skywalk is also coming up to ferry passengers from station and bus stop to the temple. 
 
 
