JAISALMER: Nineteen years have completed since India conducted its second nuclear test. On May11, 1998, on the day of Budhha Purniama,   witnessed the historic moment. Even after 19 years, the place so highly secured that one has to pass four security gates on 3.5 km long road. Due to tight security, Pakistan’s long but unabated effort to collect sand from the test spot, to know how the vital test was conducted, went futile many a times. Pakistan is still trying to get sand from the test site. The country has not stepped back from its efforts as many arrests of Pakistani spies last year indicates how eager it is.

 Coincidentally, India conducted its maiden atomic test on May 18, 1974 which was again Budhha Purnima that year.
 
 It is to be mentioned that former President  , who is popularly known as ‘Missile Man’, stayed at Pokhran Field Firing Range in Jaisalmer along with two co-scientists for the successful conduction of nuclear test. To keep the test clandestine, a chess table was laid on the ground and even Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in US could not detect such a huge experiment.
 
 In his recently published book, ‘At the Center of the Storm: My Years at the CIA’, the then CIA director George Tenet has mentioned that nuclear tests of India in 1998 had surprised America. He wrote, when US got information about the test in 1995, it built pressure and stopped the process. But he regretted for not able to generate information about the test, western part of India was beyond the limits of their satellite cameras. He still bears the pain. 
 
 The covert test was possible only because of three persons — Dr Kalam, R Chidambaram, the then chairman of Atomic Energy Commission and nuclear scientist Dr Anil Kakodkar as they stayed in Pokhran on pseudo names of army captains and majors. Laboratories were set up near the testing sight while shelters were also set up for jawans few yards from the spot. 
 
 On the day of testing, wind directions were not suitable to proceed for it and hence, time of testing was changed thrice. After successful conduction all got relieved and only 100 selected officers and jawans had the knowledge of such a crucial event. 
 
