After a successful stint on Hindi television with Siya Ke Ram, in which Kannada actor   played Ravan, he has returned to Sandalwood to not just play lead roles, but also as the script, screenplay and dialogue writer of his next film,  . The film, directed by editor-turned-director  , is said to be a suspense horror-thriller. 

 While May 1st will mark Karthik’s, fondly known as JK, first attempt as a story writer, this is not his first script. “After Siya Ke Ram, I decided to create opportunities for myself as an actor. I wrote a script about a body builder. It was all set to go on floors last year, when, unfortunately, I met with a major car accident. There was nothing left of the car, but I escaped with a few injuries. Due to the accident, I had lost close to 12 kilos, and the script required me to put on another 15 kilos. The film would have seen me in two different shades — one of an authentic body builder and the other of a regular guy. But with so many changes and delays, the producer decided to back out citing bad omen. I do want to make that film someday, once I find a passionate producer,” explains JK. 
 
 Then began his journey with May 1st — a script which he describes as the hero of the film. “Our audience today is a mature lot. They love a good story as opposed to all the heroism one sees on screen. I wrote this script keeping that in mind. It is about a family guy and a ghost that is quite close to him and his five-year-old son played by Anurag, who has been part of Drama Juniors. A friend, Vani Raju, decided to produce the film after she heard the script. The suspense is about who this ghost is. Apart from me, Urvi Joshi and   play two lead roles, and Rohit Nair is the antagonist — all of whose characters strongly add to the script,” explains the lead actor. 
 
 The rain, incidentally, has played spoilsport as far as the schedule of this film is concerned. “The teaser for the film was out last month, and the response to it has been amazing. However, we have just five days of shoot left, to be canned in  , but we have not done that yet because of the rains. We have been working on the post-production simultaneously, so I think we will be ready with the film by December this year,” says JK. 
 
