RAJKOT: Hundreds of farmers from Amreli and Bhavnagar districts dumped tonnes of onion produced in their fields on the Amreli-Mahuva highway on Wednesday to   of the produce. They also blocked the state highway for several hours.

 Angry farmers from different villages brought about 5 tonne onion loaded in tractors from their farms to the roads on Wednesday morning. They shouted slogans against the state government and demanded better price for their produce. Police said that over 200 farmers joined the protests from various villages of Mahuva in Bhavnagar and Savarkundla in Amreli. 
 
 Farmers dumped loads of onions on the state highway to show that they were not earning profit by producing onion. This is happening for the second successive year, farmers said.
 
 “For the second year in a row, onion growers are not getting decent prices for their produce. They are suffering heavy losses as they are finding it difficult to recover even the input cost. Farmers are getting Rs 20 per 20kg (about Re 1 per kg), which is peanuts,” said farmer leader Deepak Malani from   village of Savarkundla.
 
 “Farmers are left with no option but to destroy their farm produce as they can’t even afford to take their harvested onion to marketing yard as transportation would prove costly for them,” he added. 
 
 Farmers also threatened to boycott the state government’s Krishi Mahotsav over the low prices of onions. Malani also demanded that government declare minimum support price (MSP) for onions.
 
 Recently, a study by the   at   (JAU) had found that cultivators of tur, isabgul, fennel, potato, garlic, coriander and tobacco received highest return for their investment, while onion producers got the least return in 2015-16.
 
 While, a farmer who invests Re 1 for cultivating tur, receives Rs 2.32 in return, an onion cultivator got just return Rs 1.05 as against the same investment. 
 
 Various factors including area of production of particular crop, monsoon and market price played important role in farm produce returns.
 
