GURUGRAM: Two women were gang-raped inside a factory in Mandpura, Pataudi on Saturday evening, while five men were taken as hostage and robbed at gunpoint, in a daring incident that has shocked the city.

 The factory, situated in the middle of agricultural land, is an iron casting firm that produces iron moulds and machinery. The labourers live in small quarters inside the factory premises, next to a poultry farm nearby. They were sleeping in the poultry farm after their day’s work, when, at around midnight, eight people armed with pistols, sticks and rods, barged in and started verbally abusing them, which woke them up. After the miscreants took the labourers hostage, they locked the men up in a room and took the two women to a separate room, where they were allegedly raped by all eight attackers.
 
 The ordeal went on for around four hours, after which the miscreants fled on foot at around 4am, after robbing the labouring men. They also stole around Rs 40,000 in cash, which was kept in the factory premises.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (south) Ashok Bakshi said the miscreants could be known criminals. “The incident took place in a iron casting firm near Pataudi. The men stole cash and jewellery. There were no marks of a car, so it appears they fled on foot,” he said, speaking to TOI, acknowledging that the criminals were yet to be identified.
 
 After reports of the incident started pouring in on Sunday morning, cops swung into action. Commissioner of police Sandeep Khirwar and other senior officials visited the spot. A special investigation team was formed to probe the incident, which includes members from the crime branch and Pataudi police station.
 
 The women, aged 20-25, were sent for medical examination by local police after the incident was reported by the company owner. However, the phone of the factory owner, Pritam Singh, remained switched off despite repeated attempts by this reporter. 
 
 According to sources, the assailants wore monkey caps and threatened the hostages whenever they tried to protest. The labourers are from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh and used to live in the poultry farm and work in the factory. The assailants carried country-made pistols.
 
 Khirwar said, “It was an armed intrusion with   and sexual assault. We’ve constituted a SIT to probe the matter. We’ll nab the miscreants soon.” 
 
 On the basis of testimonies of the labourers and the company owner, a case was registered under sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery with attempt to hurt/cause death), 376D (gang-rape) and 458 (trespassing) of the IPC, and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, at the Pataudi police station on Sunday.
 
 
