BHOPAL: From professors to non-teaching staff, the   (BU) has become a venue for   while academics has taken a back seat. On an average, 10-12 strikes rock the campus every year whereas the trend of ‘no work’ culture is increasing with every passing  . 

 An indefinite strike by non-teaching staff, over a number of issues, entered its second day on Wednesday. 
 
 The strike has been affected the exam schedule, owing to which university had to postpone exams. “Almost two to three exams, on an average every month, have to be postponed. This is matter of concern and needs an immediate solution,” said a senior officer of the university, but without quoting his name.
 
 In the past two months, the university had to put off BSc, BA and PGDM exams on various grounds. Meanwhile, frequent strikes, allegedly by BU’s teaching and non-teaching employees, is one of the main causes why exams have to be postponed on a regular basis.
 
 “In the past six months, around a dozen exams of different courses have been postponed,” said the BU official.
 
 Teaching staff of the university have been holding protests on the campus at regular intervals. It is the same story as regards non-teaching employees’ association, who went on strike two days ago. They have warned to continue the strike indefinitely if their demands are not met.
 
 Meanwhile, irked by the frequent agitations that are adversely affecting their careers, sloganeering and shouting by students outside the administrative building of the university has become a routine affair.
 
 “If the employees can go on strike to press for their demands, then why is there a hue and cry when we protest? Strike by students is more logical in comparison to one by employees of the university,” said a student on the condition of anonymity.
 
 When contacted, BU registrar Prof   said that he has spoken to the striking employees. “I can’t comment when and how this strike will be over. However, I have been trying hard to address the issue at the earliest,” he said.
 
