JAIPUR: Five state varsities, which have initiated the process of appointing vice-chancellors, have not mentioned the eligibility criteria in the advertisements published to invite applications for the post.

 Advertisements released by central universities usually specify eligibility in accordance with UGC norms, leaving no scope for ambiguity. The UGC guidelines are clear that a candidate for the V-C post should have a doctorate and require at least 10 years of teaching experience as professors.
 
  (Sikar), Maharaja Surajmal Brij University (Bharatpur), Maharaja Ganga Singh University (Bikaner), Guru Gobind University (Banswara) and   (RUHS) have published advertisements on different dates without mentioning the eligibility criteria.
 
 TOI has copies of these advertisements published in newspapers and web portals either without mentioning vital information such as eligibility criteria or replaced it by the term ‘academic excellence’.
 
 Sources said that this has been done deliberately to favour candidates who may otherwise not qualify for the post. “These advertisements are similar to the ones published by   which resulted in the appointment of  . I fear such advertisements were deliberately released to appoint people favored by the state government,” said a higher education department official requesting anonymity.
 
 Following Rajasthan High Court’s recent observation slamming RU vice-chancellor J P Singhal as unfit for the post after he fell short of UGC guidelines, experts are planning to challenge the ongoing process of V-C appointments in the court.
 
 “These universities have to re-advertise these posts specifying qualification as per UGC guidelines. The ambiguous advertisement has helped many unqualified (those not fulfilling UGC norms) candidates apply for the top post. They could be banking on their good relations with the ruling government,” said a source.
 
 Doubts have also been raised over search committee members who have to shortlist 20 candidates from applicants.
 
 The usual practice in Rajasthan is to use the term ‘eminent academician’ while inviting candidates for the post instead of specifying UGC rules. The term is not clearly defined and differs from one university to another.
 
 Reacting to the controversy, Vidya Jain, former principal of Maharani's College, said, “The governor has to ensure transparency is followed while selecting candidates. I am sure he is keeping a tab on developments relating to the appointment of V-Cs,” said Jain.
 
 Universities are autonomous and have the power to make rules, but UGC rules serve as an advisory and act as a qualifier for many schemes.
 
