Twenty-one-year-old Akshaya Purswani, who recently completed her graduation, has been waiting for five years to get the ink mark on her finger. She thought her dream would come true in the  , which will be held on Tuesday. But her hopes have been dashed; with just three days left for the election, Akshaya still hasn’t received her voter ID. “I’m very upset,” says the youngster. “I can’t believe I won’t be able to vote after all the effort. I applied twice for it through my college, but there has been no response yet. I even went to the ward office in my area. However, they dilly-dallied and said that the card will be sent home before the elections, but that’s not happened yet.” Akshaya had researched about the candidates from her constituency. “All the information I gathered is of no use now. No wonder voter turnout in our country is often low,” she rues.

 She’s not the only one; several others are facing a similar problem. Bhuvan Majmudar, 19, a student of St Xavier’s College, says, “I am a part of a group that is urging Mumbaikars through digital means, to spare some time and vote. What an irony it will be if I don’t get to vote! Officials have asked me to wait until the weekend. But I am not too hopeful.”
 
 While political parties are going all out to woo voters through slogans, pamphlets and street plays, those who haven’t received their IDs feel that their grievances should have been addressed too. Fatemeh Mirjalili, 19, a student of  , adds, “I had applied for my voter ID and Pan Card together almost eight months back. While I received my Pan Card, my father contacted the officials for the voter ID but they informed that it was lost in the mail! I have never voted and was pretty excited to make a contribution from my end. I absolutely believe that every vote matters. I hope I receive it miraculously. I will go to the polling booth nevertheless to see if they happen to have my card there.”
 
 
  
 Meanwhile, there is a possibility that names of people might be on the electoral roll even though they haven’t received their IDs. Deborah D’souza, a 19-year-old BA student, has been asked to get her Aadhar Card on the day of the elections. She says, “During election campaigns, we hear political parties say that the youth is the future of the country and how we can make a big difference. But when we are denied a right to vote, it can be frustrating. Anyway, I am hopeful because I was told that I should carry any identity proof to the booth.”
 
 For those who still haven’t received their voter IDs, Jagdish More, PRO, state election commission, shares that they can still vote if their name appears in the electoral roll list. “There have been instances where people have found their IDs at the polling booth on the Election Day itself. Carry some sort of ID proof at all times. In case your name doesn’t show up anywhere, you can later lodge an online complaint.”
 
 
