For people living under the presumption that morphing images can snuff out the spirits of women and silence them, women like actress   and Deepa Nishant prove that they are not afraid to take the fight to their attackers.

 Rajshri, who played the lead in Sanal Kumar Sasidharan’s film  , has been getting a lot of threats because of the movie’s title. She recently exposed the names of a few men who have been sending images of her face morphed on a naked body along with hurling abuses on  .
 She posted a screenshot of the photo that was sent to her. Interestingly, the content was removed by Facebook citing that it doesn’t follow its community standard.
 
 Mocking them by declaring that she doesn’t belong to any community, the actress says that there’s a particular section of netizens, who are infected by “an incurable sickness”.
 
 “If they thought they could demoralise me with those morphed images and I will run back home and shut myself in my room, then that is never going to happen! Neither nudity nor any kind of sexual or degrading dialogues will stop me from doing what I love,” she asserts, adding that every woman should rise above preconceived notions imposed upon them in the name of morality and culture.
 
 “Look at our ancient architecture that has Kamasutra positions engraved. Our scriptures have not forbid us from being nude. But morphing cannot be accepted. It’s a crime and women should show them that their motive will not work as such demeaning acts will no longer matter to us,” she explains.
 
 The morphed images are only the latest tactic employed by those offended by the film’s title. She had earlier been bombarded with offensive messages on her social media page. Though she has filed a police complaint, she says the cops are yet to track down the culprits.
 
 “Nobody has any control over social media content. It is high time that the laws were made stricter,” Rajshri adds.
 
 Assistant professor   from Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, also faced a similar situation after she supported the display of a poster of the controversial painting on Goddess Saraswathi by  . Soon photos of her face morphed on a naked body started doing rounds on social media, forcing her to file a police complaint.
 
 Stating that she is not the person who would “commit suicide,” Deepa says, “I am not a victim. These things don’t affect me. But action must be taken as this should be a model for all women who think that suicide is the only option if their nude or morphed images are circulated. I received a lot of calls from my loved ones who thought I might attempt suicide after seeing these images. That made me realise that nudity is a big issue for many and that is what is being exploited.” She also adds that such threats will never stop her from saying or writing what she feels.
 
 Through filing a police complaint, she says she wanted to teach a lesson to netizens who don’t think twice before posting demeaning content on social media. “There is a difference between comedy and slander,” she says.
 
 However, Deepa says she is sceptical about the fate of the complaint as most of the similar petitions are yet to be redressed.
 
 Thrissur West Circle Inspector V K Raju who handles Deepa’s case tells us that the investigation is progressing. “We have tracked the Facebook IDs of six people and have contacted the social network to get their IP addresses. The action will be taken under section 67 of IT Act and as it is women detainment and life threat, cases will also be charged as per Indian Penal Code in sections 354, 506 and 509.”
 
 The official says that in majority of the instances such crimes are committed by people using fake profiles. “We cannot do much in such situations as the court demands evidence, proofs and also accused. If we cannot present them, the case will be invalid,” he says. 
 
