NEW DELHI: In the raging debate on the right to freedom of expression, the right to poke fun too is being widely exercised online. After last week’s fracas at   escalated into a full-blown political battle, a section of social media continues to engage in the debate with a dash of sarcasm via poems and songs.

 On Monday, a video featuring a poem called “ABVP Kaahe So Creepy” surfaced on YouTube from a channel called Shadab Prince. Recited in a heavy Haryanvi accent, the poem makes references to the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the saffron student wing. “Arre ABVP/Kaahe so creepy/Tera game hai over/Teri baj gayi seeti (Hey ABVP/ Why so creepy/ Your game is over/ Your bell has rung),” goes the refrain of the poem that had garnered over 850 views by Tuesday afternoon.
 
 Responses such as this one began pouring in after violence broke out in Delhi University’s Ramjas College last week over a seminar. The event had invited JNU student Umar Khalid as a speaker, something the   took exception to. Khalid, along with his JNU batchmate Kanhaiya Kumar was arrested around this time last year for allegedly raising “anti-national” slogans, and was charged with “sedition”.
 
 The videos documenting the “anti-national” sloganeering were later discovered to be dubious, even as a debate around free expression and nationalism raged.
 
 Aisi Taisi Democracy, the music and comedy duo of writer Varun Grover and singer Rahul Ram, came up with their own creative expansion of “ABVP” – “Aao Bhaiyya Vidyarthi Peetein”. A tweet with the same posted on Feb 24 currently has over 1,700 retweets and has been reposted on parody Facebook pages like “Unofficial: Subramanian Swamy”.
 
 Twitter account @RealHistoryPic, that often posts political parodies, tweeted a picture of the Indian cricket team standing in a row before former Pakistan President General Pervez Musharraf. In the picture, cricketer Virender Sehwag is seen shaking hands with him as a long-haired Mahendra Singh Dhoni looks on. “My hand is shaking the hand with Kargil’s preparator, not me. ~ Virendra Sehwag (2006),” reads the tweet accompanying the picture.
 
 This was a response to Sehwag’s remark on LSR student  . Kaur had posted a picture of herself holding a placard saying that she was “not afraid of ABVP”. Another similar picture of her – a screenshot from a 2016 video – got more attention. Here Kaur, the daughter of Captain Mandeep Singh, who died in a Kashmir terror attack, is seen holding a placard that reads, “Pakistan did not kill my father, war did”.
 
 Soon after, Sehwag posted a similar picture, holding a placard that reads, “I did not score two triple centuries, my bat did”. The tweet earned an astonishing 26,000 retweets. While some thought the comment was a fitting, witty political response, others felt it was an insensitive targeting of a young student.
 
 After Sehwag, wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt too jumped into the fray sharing a picture mocking Kaur's stance. On Tuesday, he posted a grid of four pictures, featuring Kaur’s where she is holding up the placard on war and Pakistan. The other three were: a picture of Adolf Hitler with the text, “Did not kill Jews, gas did”, one of Osama Bin Laden that says, “Did not kill people, bombs did”, and one of a blackbuck, superimposed with the text: “Bhai didn’t kill me, bullets did.”
 
