NOIDA: Peeved at the decision to distribute party tickets to turncoats, hundreds of   workers from Dadri, Jewar and Noida staged a demonstration on DND Flyway on Wednesday and burnt an effigy of Union minister  , the MP of the region. 

 The workers then left for the BJP central office in New Delhi to lodge their protest with the party chief  . Eventually, they met national vice-president Dinesh Sharma, who assured them the party would deliberate on their demands and revert in two days.
 
 BJP has announced Dhirendra Singh (50) as its candidate from Jewar and Tejpal Nagar (58) from Dadri. Singh had quit   and joined BJP on January 8 after he was assured of a ticket from Jewar. Nagar, who was originally with Congress, quit BSP and joined BJP ahead of the   polls in 2014.
 
 In the morning, disgruntled BJP workers carrying placards demanded immediate withdrawal of the 'outsider' candidates. "Those who have been with the party for several decades should be given tickets for Dadri and Jewar," Inder Raj Khatana, a party worker, said.
 
  "We are not saying BJP's Nawab Singh Nagar, who was MLA twice in 1996 and 2002 from Dadri, be given the ticket. What we are saying is that tickets should be given to old hands of the party. If the party gives tickets to outsiders in other states, we will oppose that too," he said.
 
 Sunil Bhati, another party worker, added, "Mahesh Sharma does not trust his own party members. He does not want any other leader to flourish in Gautam Budh Nagar and thus had a definite role to play in the allotment of tickets." 
 
 After protesting on the DND, the workers marched to BJP headquarters in New Delhi to meet party president Amit Shah. "Since he was not there, we proceeded to meet him at his residence. The party president sent Dinesh Sharma, national vice-president, to meet a 10-member delegation. Sharma has assured us they will deliberate on our demands," said Bhati. "We hope the party will change its decision on the candidates," he added.
 
 Nagar, who was thought to be a strong contender for the Dadri seat, said he "respects the party leadership's decision". "Party workers have a right to protest if they are unhappy about a decision but it has not been done at my behest," he said. "I have worked for the welfare of the people and hoped to get a chance to continue to serve the people. Even though the party has decided not to field me as a candidate, I will continue to be a strong pillar of the party and do as the party demands."
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Mahesh Sharma could not be reached for comments.
 
 
