NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday gave the go-ahead to widen and complete the 49km link road (UER-II) connecting   with   and  , which will help decongest airport road and Ring Road between Dhaula Kuan in South Delhi and Mukarba Chowk in the north. NHAI will build this six-lane road and will also build a six-lane elevated bypass connecting Shiv Murti in Mahipalpur with Nelson Mandela Road in Vasant Kunj.

 The elevated corridor will help decongest the Mahipalpur stretch, which is a major bottleneck for commuters. Cost of these projects is not yet known and detailed reports are under preparation.
 
 Moreover, to reduce congestion on Ashram and Badarpur stretch of NH-8 in South Delhi, the Centre committed to help the Public Works Department (PWD) to get the go-ahead from Uttar Pradesh government to build the much delayed Kalindi Kunj bypass.
 
 The decisions were taken at a review meeting chaired by Union road transport and highways minister Nitin  , which was also attended by Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, four MPs including Union minister Harshvardhan, Delhi PWD minister Satyendra Jain and officials from Delhi and UP governments. Harshvardhan said project works totalling about Rs 34,000 crore came up for discussion.
 
 Gadkari said all agencies need to work in sync to find solution to Delhi’s traffic congestion and his ministry is ready to provide all support. “If any project is stuck because of any procedural hurdle, bring it to my notice. I will take it up in the group of ministers for infrastructure sector, which I head. We will find solution,” he added.
 
 The minister said he will take up the issue of UP government giving NOC or handing over the required land to PWD for construction of Kalindi Kunj bypass. “We are funding building of two expressway projects in UP. How can they deny giving the go-ahead for a project that will help lakhs of commuters of Delhi and UP as well?” Gadkari said.
 
 NHAI officials said a survey using drones had been completed for the UER-II project and it has found that the proposed road has to be realigned at half a dozen spots since houses have come up there. “We need to find solution to about 10km stretch. DDA has to give us land to complete the project,” an official said.
 
 It was also decided in the meeting that a project report will be prepared for building an elevated road along the railway track between ITO and Anand Vihar to reduce traffic congestion on Vikas Marg, which has breached its carrying capacity. Harshvardhan also demanded an elevated road from Ajmeri Gate to Rajghat to beat traffic congestion. 
 
 
