AURANGABAD: The state transport department has initiated a special drive to detect traffic violators in the city. 

 The have appealed citizens to abide by traffic safety rules which includes carrying a driving licence and vehicle   and other necessary documents while driving. 
 
 The Regional Transport Offices (RTO’s) across the state have been not implementing the road safety guidelines set by the   (SC) panel with desired vigour. Therefore, the state transport commissionerate has ordered to start the first-of-its-kind initiative from Monday. 
 
 The four-day drive will be carried out across the state. The drive includes checking necessary compliance with a set of laid down safety standards and driving rules. 
 
 In a latest communication issued to the regional transport officers and their deputies across the state, the deputy transport commissioner Rajendra Madane has said that an official review till August 2017 implies towards lack of vigour in what has been mandated by the road safety panel of the apex court. 
 
 During the special drive, driving license, valid vehicle insurance policy, use of helmet/ seat-belt while driving, no use of cellphones while driving, legitimate number plate and head lights, illegal use of multi tone horn and over loading during the drive will be monitored. It also asks for checking any other compliances if needed in the light of laid down norms. 
 
 “It is the first time that the RTO’s across the state have been asked to take a multi-pronged approach while carrying out the crackdown. The officials have been also asked to upload data-related information about the crackdown on a daily basis,” a senior RTO official said. 
 
 “Vehicle running on the road without a valid insurance is liable for fine worth Rs 2,000, if the owner himself or herself is riding and Rs 2,300 if another person is riding the vehicle. Most importantly, the vehicles will be detained until a valid insurance certificate is produced, besides paying the described fine. We have also observed that many two-wheelers run on the road without any valid insurance policy,” the official added. 
 
 While the Motor Vehicle act 1988 provides for mandatory third-party insurance that covers for all the vehicles, the data available with the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority ( ) and the General Insurance Council (GIC) reveals that more than 50% of the vehicles plying on the roads are uninsured. 
 
 Referring to such alarming statistics, the   on road safety has asked the chief secretaries of all the state’s to take appropriate action. 
 
