PANAJI: The   (I-T) department has begun conducting physical verification of audits of those establishments in the state which have deposited   in their bank accounts during the demonetization period, which began on November 8, 2016.

 The department, which started the survey on Friday, has issued online notices to over thousands of individuals and business establishments in the state.
 
  Sources said that as there is no proper data available with banks regarding how much money had been deposited in old and new currencies, the notices have been issued in large numbers. 
 
 Sources said the I-T department has not received a good response under the   (PMGKY), which was introduced by the government to allow black money holders to declare their deposits without facing any action and in exchange for a penalty with 50% of the declared amount being deducted as tax. Another 25% of the amount declared will go into the non-interest bearing deposit scheme for four years.
 
 After the notices were issued, the individuals and business houses will have to clarify queries online. “If the I-T department is satisfied, then the cases will be closed, otherwise they would be required to reply to more online queries,” a charter accounted said. 
 
 If the taxmen are not content with even the second set of replies, they will start visiting the premises of these people and traders for audit of accounts.
 
 Sources said that if the I-T department is not satisfied with the physical verification, the case will be transferred to the   (ED) for further investigation under the Prevention of   Act.
 
 Recently, about Rs 250 crore has been disclosed in the state under the one-time Income Tax Declaration Scheme (IDS) and with this, about Rs 90 crore revenue has been generated for the Centre through the state. During that time, the taxmen had carried out search operations in all major cooperative societies to unearth black money deposited in cooperative banks. About 30 such co-operative societies were found to be having up to Rs 30 crore of unexplained money each.
 
