Except for the fact that her death was by drowning, the team probing the death of Mishel is unsure of anything else even weeks after the incident.

 The police narrative based on   and statement by a witness,  , who has claimed seeing a woman on the bridge does not hold water, especially when cops are yet to find a second witness to back it.
 
 According to  , a priest close to Mishel's family, Amal was not sure whether it was Mishel that he saw on the bridge. “I had talked to Amal last week. He told me that he was not sure whether she was wearing the same clothes as that worn by Mishel. The girl that he saw didn't have a bag and had her hair untied.From what he says, the woman doesn't seem like Mishel. And of course it is almost impossible for a woman standing alone on the bridge to go unnoticed,“ said the priest.
 
 An evidence collection was conducted by Crime Branch IG S Sreejith along with Amal on the bridge on March 16. Later on Monday, a massive search utilising private scuba divers was held on waters under the bridge to find her mobile phone and bag. But the excercise turned out to be futile.
 
 The statements given by the witness also contradicts information from CCTV images. According to Amal's statement the woman he saw was walking towards mainland from Vallarpadom. However, as per CCTV footages she was walking towards Vallarpadom. “If she had walked across the bridge and then came back, then it becomes more mysterious,“ said Father Eliyas.
 
 The family also has their doubts about the   being conducted at Ernakulam medical college instead of the general hospital, Ernakulam. “The post-mortem report has no mention of the time span in which the death might have happened.The decision to hold autopsy in Kalamassery also raises several questions,“ said Father Eliyas. According to police, they are still cross-checking the time of the CCTV footage with that of the statement of Wilfred. “There is some incongruence in the time when she was caught in camera. The statement of the witness also needs to be cross-checked. The time of her jumping off the bridge can only be known after this,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 Senior police officers remained tight-lipped about the time of death as well. With the investigation still centring on Goshree bridge, family says that that the investigation should also look into other possibilities than the theory that she jumped off the bridge.
 
 “There are so many irregularities in the police story and other possibilities should also be considered,“ said a relative of Mishel.
 
