BENGALURU: The proposed   from   to   flyover has been mired in controversy from the time it was mentioned in the 2013 budget, which was Siddaramaiah's first budget as CM.
The latest tangle that it is caught up in is the DonationGate scandal, in which a diary entry says Rs65 crore was received for awarding the contract for the steel bridge.
 
 Bengaluru development minister KJ George questioned the authenticity of the entry in the diary saying that the contractor for the project was finalized in September 2016, but the raids in which the alleged diary was seized took place in March 2016. However, residents who have been protesting against the bridge see this as further confirmation of the fact that the project unnecessary and is mired in corruption.
 
 “Today's revelations of entries from a diary recovered from Congress MLC Govindraju proves what I have been saying all along -the steel flyover is a project driven by corruption,“ said Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar. “This diary was seized from a sitting Congress MLC and is no longer simply evidence. It is an admission of corruption in the steel flyover project in particular and large scale corruption in the state in general,“ he said.
 
 The project cost of the steel flyover was pegged initially at Rs 1,130 crore. The proposal drew flak from residents as it would scythe through the greenest parts of the city and require cutting of 812 trees. A couple of months later, BDA floated a ten der and the project cost had become Rs 1,350 crore. Finally , when the tender was awarded to L&T and   , the project cost had touched Rs 1,791 crore.
 
 Citizens formed massive human chain along the proposed route in October 2016, but the Congress government, especially Bengaluru development minister KJ George, dug its heels in and said it would persist with the project.
 
 The government announced that the steel bridge will be extended up to Hebbal flyover and the 7.7km corridor would cost Rs 2,200 crore.
 
 As it became clear that the Congress government would go ahead with the project, Citizen Action Forum moved the  , which stayed work on the bridge on October 28.
 
