GURUGRAM: Residents of   areas have been facing water shortage ever since   began shifting of master pipelines passing through Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway to build underpasses. 

 The crisis has now escalated to all three phases of DLF where the residents have been getting water for a mere 10 minutes each in the morning and evening since Thursday. 
 
 Reportedly, residents of blocks A, E and F in DLF phase-1, blocks K and L in DLF phase-2 and the entire phase III are at the receiving end of the construction work being carried out by NHAI on the expressway.
 
 “We somehow managed to get by on Thursday and Friday. But now, with stored water also over, we don’t know how we will survive without water. If the   prevails on Sunday as well, the situation will only worsen,” said DLF phase-1 resident  .
 
 Water supply to DLF has been cut short by more than 50%, rue residents. 
 
 “The supply has been reducing drastically as temperatures rise. While Huda officials told us that there was no problem at their end, the developer has blamed the urban development authority for water cuts. It’s not even the peak of summer and we are already facing acute shortage,” said DLF Phase-3 resident Ramesh Sinha.
 
 RS Rathee, president of Gurgaon Citizens’ Council (a citizens’ platform) blamed both Huda and the developer for the current situation. “Supply from Huda is already short, so it becomes the developer’s responsibility to ensure adequate storage.”
 
 Huda officials have denied any problem at their end for the water crisis in the DLF phases and instead said the area needs more storage to meet the rising demand of water.
 
 “We have already requested NHAI to complete the shifting of water pipelines at the earliest. In the last three days, there has been no tinkering with the water supply from our end,” said a Huda official, requesting anonymity.
 
 The developer, too, washed its hands off the problem. “We have enough storage capacity in DLF. The entire city is reeling under water shortage due to shifting of master pipelines owing to construction of the underpasses,” said a DLF employee. A pipeline that burst near Signature Chowk on Thursday owing to construction work is reportedly being seen as the cause of the current water shortage in the area.
 
