Porvorim: The cabinet meeting on Wednesday saw PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and town and country planning (TCP) minister Vijai Sardesai engaging in strong disagreement over a proposed sewerage project in Fatorda.  Later, Sardesai told reporters that he got agitated as the issue concerned his constituency. Explaining that a small stretch close to the new district hospital in Margao has been left out of the project, Sardesai said, “Due to frequent breakage in the existing sewerage line sewage spills into paddy fields and farmers are left badly affected,” adding that the situation will be aggravated once the hospital starts operations. “There is a sewer passing along the compound of the new district hospital. Leaving this stretch out only shows their misplaced priorities,” Sardesai said.  The Rs80 crore project entails laying a sewerage line between Arlem and Shirvodem, covering a distance of about nine kilometres.  Contacted, Dhavalikar confirmed that Sardesai had raised his voice over the sewerage issue. “But you know, his voice is loud,” Dhavalikar said, downplaying the incident. The PWD minister said the whole pipeline has completely deteriorated as it was installed in 1982. “It was decided to change it under JICA-funded projects,” Dhavalikar said, adding that the plans for this were prepared sometime in 2012, and the 2-2.5km stretch did not form a part of the plan. “To take up work for additional stretch, financial clearances will be required. Work will be taken up once all approvals are received,” Dhavalikar said. Sardesai said that at the time of formation of the coalition, one of GFP’s demand was that a new sewerage line be laid for the area as the whole network was corroded. The sewerage lines are repaired from time to time, but it is not of much of help, he added. About raising his voice at the meeting, Sardesai said he has always been friends with Dhavalikar. “ We have been friends even when I was in the opposition,” Sardesai said.  The issue was resolved following the intervention of chief minister Manohar Parrikar.