MYSURU: The   gauge line has got clearance from the commissioner of  . The line is expected to be inaugurated by the second week of March — most probably on March 10. The project for the 172km stretch between Bengaluru and Hassan, which passes through Jain pilgrimage site  , was sanctioned when H D Deve Gowda was the Prime Minister in 1996.

 A K Manoharan, commissioner of railway safety ( ), inspected the line and conducted speed trials and issued the authorization to run passenger trains with a maximum speed of 80kmph. The railway ministry is trying to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the long-pending project of the region. Since it is a large section, the division requires over 100 workers, including 60 keymen and 30 station masters. The process of identifying staff for various posts is already under progress, the same will be completed soon.
 
 When the project was sanctioned, it was estimated to cost Rs 295 crore. But due to delay for various reasons, including land allotment and funds sanction, the project has now risen to Rs 1,289.92 crore, which is four times the initial cost. 
 
 Once the line becomes operational, the distance from Bengaluru to Hassan will be reduced by 50km via Arsikere and 87km via Mysuru. The distance between Bengaluru and Hassan is 259km via Mysuru, and 213km via Arasikere. 
 
 The new line will connect Bengaluru (starting station being Chikkabanavara) with Hassan via Nelamangala, Kunigal, Yediyur and Shravanabelagola, and the total length of the track will be 172km. The project will also reduce the travel time between Bengaluru and Mangaluru. The 368km long journey from Bengaluru will take 10.5 hours. The new line will also help devotees visiting Shravanbelagola.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sanjiv Agarwal, divisional railway manager (Bengaluru division), South Western Railway, said: “We have got the authorization from the commissioner of railway safety to run passenger trains with a maximum speed of 80kmph. We have not yet fixed the inaugural run date as it has to come from the ministry. We have also started moving our staff to these stations. If everything goes well, it will be inaugurated by the second week of March.”
 
