MUMBAI: Flagging off the   two days after the   broke off ties with it for the  , chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday called the Uddhav Thackeray-led party “extortionist“ and slammed it for not following Chhatrapati Shivaji's concept of a clean, transparent administration.

 “You do extortion in the name of the Chhatrapati, but you are not willing to give Mumbaikars a transparent administration,“ he said at a party conclave in Goregaon.In another dig at the Sena, Fadnavis said he could safely claim he was truly following the Maratha king's ethical values and that he enjoyed Shivaji's blessings. The CM said seat-sharing talks with the Sena broke off not on the issue of seats but on the question of providing a transparent administration. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis laid the blame for the failed pre-poll talks between Shiv Sena and BJP squarely at the Sena's doorstep, saying the party “outright rejected BJP's suggestion that transparency should be the starting point for talks.“
 
 “The alliance did not break over distribution of seats... A couple of seats here and there wouldn't have made any big difference to the BJP . However, we were keen on the issue of transparency . They (Sena) argued that the BJP should inject transparency at the Centre and in the state government... I, for one, am willing to do more to bring in greater transparency in the state administration, but the Sena isn't even willing to discuss the issue at the BMC level. This is strange,“ Fadnavis said. Taking a swipe at   for his statement that the Sena's 25 years had gone waste because of its poll partnership with BJP , Fadnavis said, “Mumbai too went waste in these last 25 years...They should think over it... We have learnt our own lesson from the last 25 years of our alliance with the Sena... That one should be careful while making friends,“ he remarked.
 
 “We are with the Sena on the question of `vichaar' (precept), that is Hindutva, but we differ with them on the question of `aachaar' (practice),“ said the CM, employing the RSS lexicon.
 
 The 40-minute speech, delivered with elan, will help shore up party workers' morale in the wake of the break-up of the saffron alliance, one of the CM's colleagues in the state ca binet said.
 
 Fadnavis alsos unveiled his party's development agenda for Mumbai, reiterating a slew of sops to Mumbaikars -from coastal roads, Metro projects, trans-harbour link and   to affordable homes. In a break from the BJP's credo, the chief minister spoke of the need to create development opportunities for the minority community . “We'll have to take them along,“ he said.
 
 The CM said his government was committed to provide houses to slum-dwellers living in the vicinity of the city airport. Also, the government would do everything within its power to safeguard koliwadas, the fishermen community's pocketboroughs. The CM described, in a very Mumbaiyya lingo, `kolis' as the original inhabitants of Mumbai.
 
 Fadnavis' promise to create affordable homes for hutmentdwellers was aimed at garnering a large chunk of votes in slum pockets. “We've had enough of these high-rise, posh apartments... The rich class can and will build homes on their own, but we want to give houses to the urban poor,“ said Fadnavis.
 
 He said the civic elections would lead to a big-ticket `parivartan' in Mumbai. “Change will happen in the city ,“ he said.
 
