MELBOURNE:  , father-of-four, 35-years of age, has been around. The Swiss superstar has done all there is to do in tennis, winning more prizes than any man in the sport. But flitting around the   Arena this fortnight, electric and effective, he appeared to be in his second flush of youth.

 Federer battled back from 1-3 down in the decider, winning five straight games against arch rival   to win his fifth   crown. "I told myself to play free. You play the ball, you don't play the opponent. Be free in your head, be free in your shots, go for it. The brave will be rewarded," the Swiss master said.
 
 "I didn't want to go down just making shots, seeing forehands rain down on me from Rafa. It was the right decision at the right time. I had opportunities early on in the fifth to get back on even terms. I could've left disappointed and accepted that fact."
 
 Federer said, Nadal has been 'particular' in his career. "We go furthest back. Novak (Djokovic) also has been one of my biggest rivals," Federer said.
 
 "But Rafa definitely has been very particular in my career. I think he made me a better player. The way his game stacks up with me, it's a tricky one. I've said that openly. It remains for me the ultimate challenge to play against him. So this title is definitely very special."
 
 "I said before the finals, if I were to win against Rafa, it would be super special and very sweet because I haven't beaten him in a Grand Slam final for a long, long time now. Last time I guess was 2007 at Wimbledon in a five-setter. Now I was able to do it again. We're both on a comeback."
 
 Federer said title No.18 was sweet. "I can't compare this one to any other one except for maybe the French Open in 2009. I waited for the French Open, I tried, I fought. I tried again and failed. Eventually I made it. This feels similar, yeah." Federer said criticism of his medical time out between the fourth and fifth sets of the final was unfair.  , the 1987 Wimbledon champion called it 'legalised cheating'. The Swiss said he had been struggling with a groin injury since his second round win over American Noah Rubin. It was aggravated during his five-set semifinal victory compatriot Stan Wawrinka.
 
 "In the final I felt my quad midway through the second set, and the groin started to hurt midway through the third set. I just told myself, 'the rules are there that you can use them'. I also think we shouldn't be abusing the system. I think I've led the way for 20 years."
 
 Federer added, "So to be critical is exaggerating. I'm the last guy to call a medical timeout."
 
 The Swiss, who appeared to be bidding adieu to Australia in his victory speech, has planned a victory for later tonight. He stressed he had no plans of retiring just yet, but that the comment was said in the light of his injury woes last season.
 
 "This is all about knowing that I have only so much tennis left in me. If I do get injured, maybe if I miss next year, who knows what happens... You never know when your next Grand Slam is going to be, if ever. You never know if you're going to have an opportunity at this stage, I felt I could thank so many people at once. It's a live audience. It's a moment for me to be appreciative of them. I've had a tough year last year. Three five-setters are not going to help. I just meant it the way I meant it. There wasn't something planned behind it. I hope I can be back."
 
