KOLKATA: One of the world's top universities, SOAS, has taken the initiative to showcase   and culture in association with non-resident Bengalis, the high point of which will be the installation of a   on its  

 Formerly known as the School of Oriental and African Studies, the 101-year-old institute for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, is the only British university that offers degree-level courses in Bengali. It also boasts of the first Black woman to head a UK university in Baroness Valerie Amos, who was in Kolkata on Thursday to attend the bicentenary celebrations of Presidency University along with Michael Hutt, director of the university's South Asia Institute.
 
 SOAS has also tied up with Presidency University for various exchange programmes, through CM Mamata Banerjee's Biswa Bangla initiative that aims to revive dying art and craft of Bengal.
 
 During her 2015 London visit, the CM had announced Biswa Bangla postgraduate scholarships to students of Bengali at SOAS. Sharing the tenets of the `Bengal Heritage Project' with TOI, Hutt said, “We are looking forward to the execution of the project, especially the idol-making part. People in the UK have very little idea about its former colony . The project is aimed at changing this.“
 
 Ahead of the project's launch in London on February 11-which will also see a Bengali food festival -Hutt has written to the London Sharad Utsav to partner the initiative.The project will also work closely with universities like Cambridge to create awareness about heritage buildings and sites in Bengal. Other aspects of non-performing arts, like Kalighat patachitra and crafts with dokra and kora mati, will be promoted through Biswa Bangla.
 
 There are plans to link nonperforming artistes to the global market through an initiative, GreenB, by the alumni of the London Business School.Among the others partnering the project are the Royal College of Gyneacologists and University College London. “The project aims to promote the various aspects of Bengal's heritage to a global audience,“ said Anirban Mukhopadhyay , member, London Sharad Utsav .
 
 Sculptor Halley Goswami will travel to UK to make the Durga idol on the SOAS campus. “The idol will also be used to promote the various forms of Bengal's textiles (jamdani, kantha, baluchari, Murshidabad silk),“ said Mukhopadhyay .
 
