
 
 Though this is primarily addressed to Matthew, the director of 'Kingsman: The Golden Circle', Taron steps in first. "I think in terms of his development - I mean obviously I know this is largely a Matthew question - see, both Merlin and Harry are very formed men with a kind of a very realised identity, and they're assured and comfortable in who they are. Whereas I think the fun that Eggsy had over the course of these two - or perhaps even three - films is that he's a work in progress (Matthew grabs on to the table for a 'touch wood' and mumbles, 'let's hope, three!'). And I know you've compared the structure of it and elements of the structure of it to the   trilogy and how you've tried to model it, and someone asked me whether he's Luke Skywalker-like. I would love to see Eggsy continue to develop and who knows where we are at the end of the third film."
 
 
  
  Taron Egerton 
 
  "He's got a huge arc," says Matthew, "and at the end of the thing you've made a sacrifice to do something that you're really not into, and therefore we need to see how that affects your character."
 
  
 This time, Matthew comes in to answer ahead of Taron. They clearly are a good team. "Age! ...the reason I think this franchise is working so well is that Taron is growing up as Eggsy is. He was a boy when I first met him, Taron, and now he's a young man, and so, weirdly, it's life imitating art and art imitating life, which is seeing him flourish. We all make mistakes, he’s made a few, I’ve made them, we all make them - he learns from them and he moves on, and that’s what Eggsy is doing. And I think it’s sort of, what we do normally is apply old make up and you have to change people's looks but in this case..."
 
  Taron, listening intently, takes it on: "I've never thought of it that way, I really like that. I guess in the first one I was in my very early 20s, and if we do a third, I will be 30 when it comes out. But in terms of how he's developed and changed I think..."
 
  Matthew interjects - "The first one... you'd never been on a bloody film set before!"
 
  Taron laughs and continues, "I suppose in the first one he’s operating to try and find his own calling and find his own path, and now at the start of the second one he's very much on the path he knows he wants and should be on. But he’s also operating for someone else. Everything he does is conditioned by his relationship with his new partner. So that conditions who he is as a person too. You see him be less - not that I think he's a self-serving person - but in this movie everything is conditioned by his relationship with the princess."
 
  
 There follows a sharp, vocal defence of that part of the story, with each moment of that scene explained, which we're absolutely not printing since it would pretty much be a plot spoiler. It ends with Strong summing it up thus: "The nobility that you talk about is just in their comradeship. That’s the fact, that he’s making a sacrifice, as his father made a sacrifice, and that is who the Kingsmen are. It is a tight-knit group of people, and the nobility comes from that comradeship, I think."
 
 
  
  Mark Strong 
 
  
 Matthew replies, "For me, good ideas are organic, natural, they just occur. And as a kid, in the 70s, Americana was a big thing in England, I think in the world. It was fashion, television, music – they were ruling. And it stuck with me. When I made Kingsman, I was like, what's happened to the David Nivens? Here I was thinking, what's happened to the James Coburn, Burt Reyonolds, and... I know what happened is Bush Jr took over and from that point America’s sort of gone downhill, especially in perception. And I thought let’s remind the world that there was a side of America that we all loved and still love and celebrate and, let’s have some fun with it."
 
  
 Matthew raises his voice to clearly spell out, keeping a perfectly straight face - "That, whatever you said, was a histrionic noise which I couldn't understand!" Even as the laughter subsides, he comes back to a more serious tone and concludes, "The good thing about Asia is there is so much culture there that can be celebrated and played with. So definitely, never say never. I could see us going over there and having some fantastic food and making a film there."
 
 Now will that fantastic food be Mughlai or Chinese is the question.
 
 
  
  Matthew Vaughn
 
 
 
 
 
