PUNE: After a gap of five years, the   ( )'s group headquarters here has revived the flying training activity for its air wing cadets. 

 On Wednesday, a batch of 10 cadets undertook the enthralling experience of flying in a twin-seater 'Zenair ch 701' aircraft which was flown from the air strip of the National Defence Academy's ( ) air force training team. 
 
 The air borne training activity was suspended five years ago owing to issues relating to maintenance and parking of the aircraft, which was inducted in 2002 and had completed 1500 hours of flying before being grounded. The authorities have now addressed these issues and a fit-to-fly-again aircraft has now been put to use for the revival of air training activity. 
 
 The NCC is a tri-services organisation which recruits cadets, boys as well as girls, from high schools at the two-year junior division course and colleges and universities at the three-year senior division course, across the country for providing basic military training. 
 
 Wing Commander Chetan Mahajan, the commanding officer of 3 Air squadron, NCC, and his team played a key role in repairing the aircraft. "We addressed all issues related to the aircraft maintenance and carried out necessary tests for ascertaining its serviceability before using it again for flying. Now, the aircraft is is perfect condition," he said. 
 
 The NCC's Pune unit has a special air squadron which imparts theory and practical training to its air wing cadets. The squadron has about 1,300 air cadets, a majority of whom are from junior division while the remaining are from senior division. 
 
 Mahajan said, "We are in the process of planning flying schedule for the next few weeks. Since the aircraft is in perfect condition to fly, we will carry out sorties at a regular intervals from the NDA's training facility." As per the flying training curriculum, a cadet would accompany an   pilot. S/he would get to know the basic facets of a cockpit and flying in the cockpit of the aircraft. S/he would not have any access to the flying controls of the aircraft.
 
 The NCC authorities feel that if the cadets get flying experience at an early stage they would be motivated to join the   or, for that matter, the Indian armed forces in future.
 
 NCC group commander Brigadier   flew in the aircraft on Wednesday. If students get a first-hand experience of flying they would certainly develop interest in taking it up as a career, he said.
 
