Rajkot: “Scientific attitude is the key to success and happiness”. This is the answer one gets from members of ‘Vignan Manch’ (Science Forum) when asked how to make society happy.

 The four founding members of the forum — Kishor Makwana, a web designer, Lalit Solanki, a science teacher, Kantilal Bhut, retired government employee and Govind Kukadiya, a businessman — come from different walks of life.
 
 They founded ‘Vignan Manch’ in 1996 to fight superstition and remove it from people’s mind. Through their programme ‘Chamatkar no Pardafas’ (exposing the superstition) they tried to inculcate scientific attitude among the people and engage them to a debate. Till date, Vignan Manch members have held 2,000 such shows across the state.
 
 “We all come from different backgrounds but our aim is to make society better. It is only possible if people have scientific attitude and view things around them with some logic. People succumb to superstition either due to ‘fear’ or ‘greed’,” said Solanki.
 
 “When a man posing as sadhu shows gullible people how he can bring vermilion power used for worshipping gods, from his empty palms, people often believe it as magic but it is actually a chemical process. They use phenolphthalein powder and mix it with liquid calcium carbonate which forms red colour after reaction,” added Solanki.
 
 Similarly, these group of rationalists show the trick of lighting a lamp without using match stick during their shows. “We hide sodium metal wrapped in cotton cloth and as soon as we sprinkle water on it, it ignites and starts burning. It is a chemical process but people tend to believe it as ‘chamatkar’,” says Makwana.
 
 “Some persons take advantage of the weakness of people and exploit them through tricks saying that it is ‘chamatkar’ but there is nothing like ‘chamatkar’. We have developed over 85 experiments — which are used by fraudsters or Bhuvas to lure gullible people — to show public the same tricks and tell the truth behind it. The ‘show’ remains hit as we explain with humour and make the show engaging and argumentative,” said Kishor Makwana.
 
 “Over the years we have observed that if a person is teaching science or is a scientist that does not mean he or she has a scientific attitude. We learn and teach science but we have not adopted a scientific attitude. When scientists offer coconuts before launch of satellites, what can one expect from a layman?” argues Bhut.
 
 “The work of Vignan Manch is really commendable as it instils scientific outlook among students and people,” said V D Bala, who runs Navrang Nature Club and helps members of the Vignan Manch in organizing shows.
 
 The Manch has announced a reward of Rs 21 lakh to anyone who can prove that superstition or chamatkar (magic) exists in daily life. “We are swimming against the tide (of superstition) but we need to swim it for the larger good of society,” says Solanki.
 
 
