GOA: The huge contradictions within India are most conspicuous among the lives of dalits and the adivasis. Movements to bring them back to the mainstream have been gathering force more than ever in the country.
 
  The movement by the Quepem Christian tribal community, though local, could also be read along with it. Looking back at their primitive and original history and culture as inherited from their ancestors, the movement is trying to revive it from near-extinction by rehashing the much-overhauled version they are living now. The Christian tribals, whose ancestors were converted by Portuguese missionaries, have been following a new costume, cuisine and lifestyle, disregarding their age-old traditions and customs, deeply ingrained in their psyche and soil, and followed by their forefathers.
  
  The Gawda, Kunbi and Velip communities have been included in the list of scheduled tribes. During the Portuguese regime, they were converted to the Roman Catholic fold of Christianity. Today, these Christian tribals are given certificates as Christian Gawdas, but they consider themselves as Kunbis.
  
  Before the slash-and-burn farming practice called kumeri gained in prominence, they were mostly living on a wide range of seasonal wild berries, fruits and vegetables, which were naturally available. Their food was predominantly organic and free from harmful chemicals. Once they got involved in agriculture, they started growing horsegram, blackgram, finger millets and traditional rice varieties along with tuber crops.
  
  When they turned agriculturists, they made use of different kinds of grass available in the wild and used them for a variety of livelihood activities. Food grains were stored in mudis, skilfully wove out of paddy stalks. Mats for sleeping were made of lavo, a wild grass available in marshy areas or from the coconut fronds, chudta.
  
  Despite the fallout that these tools for subsistence turn into exhibition items or artefacts, tribal festivals, like the one organized at Shelde this year, display the cultural ethos and values of the tribals. President of Adivasi Sangathana of Quepem, Caetano Carvalho says, “Since 2008, we have been organizing the tribal festival every year for reviving links with our traditional culture. We organize competitions of traditional games and also encourage members of our tribal community to put up food stalls displaying our cuisine.”
  
  These festivals also make a pitch for different tribal arts and skills, which have been revived by the efforts of the Adivasi Sangathana of Quepem. The traditional form of folk art, the Intrumez, not only provides a stage to the artists from Ambaulim, but also helps non-tribals get glimpses of dance and drama of the Kunbis. The Kunbi sari, which inspired   and in turn revived the weaving of the traditional Kunbi sari, worn by the aged women of the community along with traditional jewellery and garlands of local flowers decorating their hair, classically portrays the look of the tribeswomen. The women command respect in the family and their hard work sustains them, besides instilling cultural and social values in their children.
  
  Researcher of Goan history and culture, Rohit Phalgaonkar said, “Through this festival we get an opportunity to relish a variety of food items like saana, taikalyachi chav (a green leafy vegetable), ukadyatandalache ladu (ladu made of brown rice), shirvalyo (rice noodles) in done (bowls fashioned out of leaves), and medicinal and nutritional slices of wild tubers. Folk dance performances with tribal costumes present varied facets of the tribal culture, giving us thought-provoking experiences.”
  
   , a folk researcher, who belongs to the   community, said that the community was confined to the practice of shifting agriculture and cultivating different types of food grains for hundreds of years. “The new generation has a feeling that our culture is that of backward people and that we have inferior complexes. In reality, our culture has roots in the soil and has evolved traditions, cuisine and arts as per the need of the environment, since our ancestors possessed foresight,” he added.
  
  Goa has a tribal population of 1,49,275 as per the 2011 census. Among these, 1,06,659 is the Gawda population. There is no reference to the Christian Gawda population. But as per Christian Gawda leaders, their community is approximately 50,000-strong.
  
  Father   said, “Tribals who are living in tune with nature and environment have helped in protecting the Goan culture. The tribal festival has shown the varied facets of Goa’s sociocultural heritage.”
  
  The life of the Christian tribals has changed a lot, but, under the banner of Adivasi Sangathana, they are making efforts to restore their original identity.
  
