MYSURU: The pond, where eight migratory and free-ranging birds were found dead due to  , will be kept dry as a precautionary measure. Zoo authorities are awaiting reports from a Bhopal lab before opening the facility.

 The authorities emptied Pond-3, located in the heart of the 80-acre facility, that would attract migratory birds after they found greelag geese and pelicans dead in late December. Six birds – two spot billed pelicans (migratory) and four greylag geese (free-ranging) -- were found dead close to the pond. Lab tests confirmed that four, including two pelicans, died of avian influenza – H5N8.
 
 Zoo executive director K Kamala told TOI that Pond-3 is the largest water body on the campus. “After the death of seven birds in late December and early January, we emptied the pond as a precaution to prevent the virus from spreading. On an average, a dozen pelicans land at this pond daily and then leave in the evening. Recently, three were found dead, including two due to avian influenza. Pelicans, the only migratory birds at the zoo, also spread the virus to two greylag geese. To prevent migratory birds from landing here, the pond has been emptied,” she said.
 
 She added that animals and birds at the zoo are fine and a herd of greylag geese confined in the dried pond area too are healthy. The animals and birds are being monitored daily.
 
 Awaiting reports 
 
 Kamala said after the birds deaths were reported, the facility was locked down as per national guidelines. “Since then, we’re regularly collecting samples to verify whether the virus has spread to animals and birds in captivity,” she said. 
 
 The zoo has sent about 80 random samples to the   and Animal Diseases, Bhopal, on January 13. “We’re yet to receive the test reports of the first batch of samples. We have collected the second batch and will take it to the lab on Wednesday. The delay is because the Bhopal lab has been receiving samples regularly for testing. I have requested its authorities to provide the results as early as possible,” she said.
 
 “We’re hoping the results will reach us later this week and we can take a decision to open the zoo which was shut on January 4, with permission from the  ,” she said.
 
 As per national guidelines, a facility that reports deaths due to avian influenza has to be quarantined or closed for nearly a month and restrict human movement. It can be reopened only after two consecutive sample test results are negative. 
 
 Pelican sample tested negative 
 
 The samples from the grey pelican found dead on January 5 has tested negative, said Kamala. 
 
 Meanwhile, animal husbandry and veterinary sciences officials monitoring the situation outside the zoo and Mysuru city claim no sample has tested positive for avian influenza. 
 
 The department’s deputy director P M   said the department collected 35 samples in the area covering a 10-km radius, including water bodies and poultries in and around Mysuru, and sent them for testing to the Bhopal lab. The result was negative. The department has collected 551 samples in the district since April and all samples tested negative for bird flu. 
 
