NEW DELHI: Caught in the political tussle between the BJP-lead South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Aam Aadmi Party MLA, and the proclivity of both to preserve development funds for projects that benefit their vote banks, exasperated residents of   plan to initiate a public-interest litigation in Delhi high court. The query they will pose to the court is whether a municipal body can bar the usage of MLA local area development funds.

 Having seen in the past many exercises undertaken by the civic body eventually relying on MLA or MP funds for completion, GK residents had hoped that funds released by MLA   would smoothen work related to parks, roads and sanitation. In 2015, Bhardwaj was petitioned for financing to install benches in parks and to erect open gyms, work that should actually have been carried out by the corporation. While the MLA cleared the money only in August this year, the corporation resolved soon af ter to turn down the funds.
 
 “How can the standing committee of the civic body pass a resolution not to utilise MLA funds?“ asked Rajiv Kakria, civic activist and resident of Greater Kailash I. “It doesn't have that power.“ The corporation claimed to have disapproved of using the MLA LAD funds in order to avoid duplication of projects it had already tendered for. But most GK residents allege that the municipal body and the MLA want to reserve large portions of development funds for slums and unauthorised colonies to win the electoral support of residents there.
 
 “It takes a lot of effort to get funds sanctioned from MLAs and MPs for areas like GK, which is a B category colony . We pay our taxes religiously , but what are we getting in return?“ fumed Kakria, pointing out that the residents had to recently hire private cranes to remove 35 abandoned cars, about which they had made several rounds of the corporation's office. Added MK Gupta, president, Greater Kailash I RWA, “SDMC is not doing its job and isn't allowing others to do it either.“
 
 Despite being an affluent colony , GK suffers from perennially poor roads and sanitation. “Cleaning staff come infrequently , encroachment is rife. Even for road patching, we have to approach the MP or MLA,“ said  , chairman of GKII Complex RWA. He disclosed that a tennis court, developed with assistance of MLA funds, was shut down by SDMC last year and took a year of persuasion for the corporation to reopen it.
 
 Bhardwaj himself claimed to have sanctioned Rs 1.06 crore for open gyms, Rs 47 lakh for swings in the parks, Rs 75 lakh for maintenance of colony roads, Rs 35 lakh for streetlights and Rs 28 lakh for drainage, “but the corporation has been sitting on these“.
 
 Reiterating that the MLA funds were rejected only to avoid duplication of projects,  , chairman of the  , said, “MLAs are welcome to provide funds for our projects, but they only clear funds for work we have already finalised. This is a way to malign us ahead of the municipal polls.“
 
 
