JAIPUR: Ramchandra Meghawal of Gadero Ki Dhani in Jodhpur, who had gained renown as a champion of the rights of miners exposed to silicosis, succumbed to the   on Tuesday. He was about 62 and had been diagnosed with the killer disease in 2013. He is survived by his wife Ugi Devi, two daughters and five sons. 

 Scores of fellow miners joined in the procession for his cremation. Ever since Meghwal first learned of the harm mining can do to the lungs of mine workers, he began to spread word about the need for precautions. He also took the lead in getting other miners screened for silicosis. Gradually, it became clear that a large number of workers from the area were afflicted with this incurable condition.
 
 Hongkong-based Asia Monitor Resource Centre, which advocates internationally on labour issues, invited Meghwal to a conference in Indonesia some years ago. Meghwal thus emerged as a spokesperson for the silicosis-afflicted across the world. 
 
 Meghwal would often join fellow miners in dharnas and rallies, demanding the government offer timely relief to those suffering. Since 2013, the state government has been offering Rs 1 lakh in compensation to those certified as patients of silicosis by the state Pneumoconiosis Board. The kin of those dead receive Rs 3 lakh in compensation. Meghwal had been petitioning the government to release Rs 4 lakh while patients are still alive, so those ailing can use that money to stay alive a little longer. 
 
 A public hearing with the district collector and other officials is set to be held on Thursday at Gadero Ki Dhani. Villagers have put together a petition, seeking that the administration make available portable oxygen cylinders in areas where there are many suffering from this disease – this would ease the condition of patients who grow breathless and cannot avail medical help. They have also demanded that those miners whose health has deteriorated to such an extent that they cannot work anymore must be granted monthly pension.
 
 In the past 15 days, four deaths have occurred in Gadero Ki Dhani – all of these were of silicosis patients. Rana Sengupta of the   said the cremation grounds in the area receive bodies of patients at an interval of about two to four days. 
 
