NAGPUR: It’s almost two months since   administration appointed four deans on additional charge for smooth implementation of the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, but none of them have been provided with either a room or staff.

 The new legislation made it mandatory for all universities to appoint four full-time deans who would be its statutory officers on a regular salary, as all faculties are divided into four major ones —  , Commerce and Management, Humanities and Interdisciplinary Sciences. 
 
 As regular appointments is a long and tedious and process and would have taken about a year, NU decided to handover additional charge to four of its senior and experienced officers working at conducted colleges and postgraduate departments.
 
 Accordingly, NU appointed former pro-vice chancellor Maheshkumar Yenkie to head Science and Technology, former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande for commerce and management, law college principal Shrikant Komawar for humanities and Rajendra Kakde for interdisciplinary sciences faculties. They were entrusted with the job to set up the new faculty as per the provisions in new Act and expedite the work. 
 
 On condition of anonymity, one of the deans told TOI that none of them have been provided either with a chamber or supporting staff like stenographers, personal assistants, peons and others, required for day-today official work.
 
 Under the newly formed  , they’re supposed to meet regularly. However, due to lack of manpower, their work has been severely hampered. 
 
 “We could met only once in the absence of all these facilities. Setting up all bodies as per the Act, is a huge challenge for us and we need to start our work as early as possible,” they told TOI.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram said that they had made provisions to accommodate them at office of former   (BCUD) director at NU campus. “We plan to accommodate them at one place, so that they could conduct their meetings regularly. We’ve huge shortage of manpower and can’t allocate individual staff to them, but can use staff allocated to ex-BCUD director,” he said.
 
 Indirectly blaming VC SP Kane and pro-VC Pramod Yeole, Meshram disclosed that he had suggested to grant additional charge to either head of departments (HODs) or directors like Raju Mankar (LIT director). “It would have solved all these problems, as those heads are already having all these facilities at their offices. But the higher-ups were keen to appoint second-rung persons, which created all the problems. I had suggested names of HODs/directors after taking all these difficulties into account,” he told TOI.
 
 
