HYDERABAD: To gain   of the condition of roads and also inspect the   in various areas, zonal commissioners of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) are now   tours in the colonies. A couple of zonal commissioners and deputy commissioners have already begun inspections on bicycles, and the others are expected to start soon.

 Municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao, during a review meeting recently , reportedly told GHMC officials to take a two-wheeler or a bicycle ride to know the problems faced by commuters. He reportedly informed the engineering wing officials that he had been getting complaints about the pathetic condition of roads riddled with potholes that need to be rectified immediately . The condition of the road would be better known while riding a bicycle instead of travelling in a car, the minister commented.
 
 It may be recalled that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed his anger and anguish over the condition of roads in the state and directed the Roads and Buil dings (R&B) department to fill up the potholes by the end of this month. The CM also warned the officials of stringent action if the roads were not improved.
 
 Following the orders of the minister and also from GHMC commissioner Janardhan Reddy , zonal commissioner of GHMC north zone Shankariah toured places in Alwal municipal circle on a cycle in the morning a few days ago. Similarly , zonal commissioner of central zone   along with deputy municipal commissioner Sudhamsh inspected several roads in Ameerpet a couple of days ago.
 
 “Since it is not possible to take bicycle ride on the main roads, we are moving on cycles in colonies and internal roads twice a week. We are also interacting with locals to know their grievances,“ Shankariah told STOI.
 
 Municipal administration officials said KTR had earlier asked municipal commissioners in districts to move in the areas daily at 5 am to oversee sanitation works and send their inspection images to his office through Whatsapp. He also mandated to send their action taken reports on   and social media reports pertaining to their municipality on a day-to-day basis.
 
