The   government on Monday kicked off a massive vaccination drive for measles and rubella amidst widespread concern among parents and reports of absenteeism of students. 

 It was not a smooth ride on the first day, as health department staff who visited schools to administer the vaccine found that a few students had come with letters from parents asking to be exempted, while fear of the needle kept a few students away. Health department doctors and staff had to convince parents that the vaccine would not cause side-effects.
 
 Health minister C Vijayabaskar and health secretary   inaugurated the programme at a government higher secondary school in Velachery in Chennai. Close to eight lakh children between 9 months and 15 years participated in the drive across the state on day one. 
 
 In Coimbatore, the success rate varied from 20% to 70% among city and district schools. While some schools saw high absenteeism, in others, parents refused to give written permissions for their children to be vaccinated. In Madurai, doctors were roped in to allay parents’ fears. Many parents remained reluctant. They have been given time to consult their doctors. Parents opting for the vaccination were asked to sign a registry marking their approval. 
 
 In the corporation elementary school on  , in Coimbatore, the team could vaccinate only 88 of the 238 girls. “Many of the parents did not want their children to be vaccinated,” said a corporation health centre nurse. In another corporation school on Trichy Road, they could vaccinate only 402 of the 619 eligible students, as almost 160 girls were absent and around 30 parents wrote to the school expressing their unwillingness to let their children be vaccinated.
 
 In another private school in  , a majority of the girls claimed that they forgot to bring letters from their parents permitting them to get vaccinated. In Tamil Nadu, around 1.8 crore children from nine months to 15years -- nearly a quarter of the state’s population-- will be vaccinated from February 6 to 28. 
 
 
