Bhopal: Hospital Acquired Infections (HAI), lack of medicines and insensitivity towards patients formed the core of the reaction by a team from National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW) during its visit to Gandhi Medical College (GMC).

 The team visited the largest tertiary care hospital in the state capital on Monday to review ‘safety of patients’ as a part of a nationwide assessment of government hospitals. The team comprised of two members who inspected Hamidia hospital along with officials of MP health department. The visit was marked by another disturbance in Hamidia hospital casualty ward.
 
 The survey would look into infrastructure, clinical safety, physical safety of patients and medication safety. The team members indicated risk of HAI, suggesting that fumigation techniques at the hospital were not in line with latest practices. 
 
 Promotion of hand hygiene is considered the single most important factor in preventing HAI. Education and motivation of health care workers to practice sound hand hygiene has to part of training period and principles of hand hygiene and infection control are being integrated in the medical curriculum, said an official. 
 
 Errors happening due to not following the protocols in the pre-op, during operative procedure, and post-operative period are a cause of complications and mortality, was also pointed out by the team. 
 
 According to a study, nearly two-third of injections are administered in unsafe manner in India.
 
 **
 
 Insensitive Hamidia private guard tears entry slip of patients relative, police intervene
 
 While the NIHFW team was conducting its survey over safety of patients at Hamidia hospital, a private security guard allegedly denied entry to a relative of patient undergoing treatment at the hospital. Raghu Ram, relative of a patient, alleged that a private security guard did not let him enter the hospital and also tore his entry pass. “If the police had not intervened, the guard would have not missed the opportunity to thrash me,” he alleged. The shocking behaviour of the private guard, however, went unnoticed by Hamidia hospital staffers. It comes days after junior doctors allegedly thrashed family members of an 8-year-old girl outside operation theatre of the hospital. Police are investigating the case.
 
 
