PANAJI: The claims of the central government that its decision to demonetize Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes also struck the illegal   in the country may have started dissolving. People associated with the rescuing of the trafficked victims have shared that after the slump, the industry is back in business.

 “There was a lull when demonetization happened, but now again the girls who are being rescued are telling us that   is back on track,”  , president of ‘Arz’ an organization that is working to combat trafficking said. Pandey said that Goa, with its tourist destination status is at the crux of the flesh trade industry, with girls from as many as 18 Indian states and seven other nations being rescued in the last five years. From November till date, the organization has been successful in rescuing seven girls from the clutches of traffickers.
 
 Pandey points out several reasons why the problem is grave despite a low figure.
 
 “Only five to 10% of the total trafficked victims are rescued. Most rescue cases happen during the monsoon season, when there is a low volume of tourists in the state,” he explained, adding that the tourist season is the primetime for trafficking as well, but police resources also become skewed due to a surge in tourist-related crimes and crowd controlling.
 
 This tourism season as well, the police force was occupied with the   summit, followed by the state assembly elections and the annual tourist rush. The state has an anti-human trafficking unit, but no dedicated full-time officers.
 
 “The flesh trade is a full-fledged network and you need people for constant monitoring and pre-emptive actions to control the situation. Also, most of the girls are from other states and there are is no counselling, no protection for them. The conviction process is slow and despite the provisions in the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, we have failed to constitute special courts to fasten up the legal process,” Pandey said, adding that the absence of these mechanisms eventually results in the victim again falling into the clutches of the traffickers.
 
 This tourism season, police were occupied with the BRICS summit, followed by the state assembly polls and the annual tourist rush. Goa has an anti-human trafficking unit, but no full-time officers
 
