NAGPUR: The tiger T10, popularly known as Srinivas, died after it was electrocuted by a   laid by a farmer to keep out herbivores from his field. The debate began with panellists talking about this illegal practice. 

 Nitin Desai, Central India director of Wildlife Protection Society of India, said that there was an urgent need to revitalize the crop damage compensation scheme. “Until a few years ago, farmers would poison carcasses of cattle that had been hunted by tigers or leopards as a form of retaliation towards the predator. But ever since compensation for such deaths was hiked, this practice has stopped. If farmers are compensated adequately for crop damage, they will stop putting up illegal electric fences as well,” he said. At present, Desai added, a farmer only gets back the cost of the crop seed even though herbivores may have damaged his entire standing crop.
 
 Nalin Kukde, an organic farmer, said that the forest department begins controlled burning of forest, to create fire lines, during the months of January to March. This period is when the   is also ready for cultivation. With vegetation in the forests burned, herbivores turn to farms to graze. “If the department can wait until after the crop is harvested, it would be a big relief for farmers,” he said.
 
 Amit Band, a lawyer and member of the NGO CLAW, said that there was a time when close to 100 deer and nilgai would raid his crop that is located at Sillari near Pench Tiger Reserve, but after putting up a 7-foot fence three years ago, the problem has stopped. 
 
 Pallavi Ghaskadbi, project biologist with  , said that it’s a misconception that tigers have started coming to farms in pursuit of herbivores only recently. “It’s just that we are tracking the tigers now, so it has come to light,” she added. She also raised a pertinent point when she said, “Are we protecting our protected areas to increase tiger numbers, only to have them come outside the forests and die?”
 
 AK Misra, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), said that the forest department, being the custodian of all  , was definitely responsible for their deaths. “The question is that is only the department responsible for this,” he said. Elaborating, he said that Vidarbha had a mosaic of landscapes that included forest land, human habitat and revenue land. “There are many cattle in Vidarbha that are reared purely on forest resources; they graze on vegetation in the forests,” he said, suggesting that even cattle-owners are responsible.
 
 The panellists also suggested that MSEDCL could play a more active role since illegal tapping of power lines by farmers to keep out herbivores was rampant. Conservationist Uday Patel, who also works for Mahatransco, said that if higher officials resolved to take action, it could be done. Udayan Patil of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal added that there was a commercially available device which administers an electric shock for only 120-150 milliseconds, which was non-lethal but still enough to repel an intruding animal.
 
 Asked if the department could radio-tag all tigers in the wild, Misra said that while this was, in theory, possible, it was not desirable. “We tag only 1-2% of the tigers. This is done not to save them but to study their movement pattern,” he added.
 
 The discussion turned to whether India was reaching the saturation point for its tiger population. Desai said, “Tiger conservation started with a crisis of too few tigers in the wild. Now, we are reaching a stage where it may be a crisis of too many. We have a fairly good idea of the holding capacity of our parks. We need to figure out the capacity of our corridors as well.”
 
 Misra said, “Tiger is the thermometer of ecology. Having high tiger numbers is essential to maintain the 33% forest cover.”
 
 Tourism can also play a big role in conservation of tigers. Misra agreed that if tourism is regulated and is not detrimental, it definitely boosts conservation. “Tadoba is a great example. Due to tourism, conservation got a boost which, in turn, resulted in the forest becoming productive. This, again, boosted tourism,” Misra explained.
 
 However, Patil cautioned that tourism could be a double-edged sword. “Ranthambore developed because of tourism, but because of too much commercialization, it also got degraded to a certain extent.”
 
 The debate concluded with panellists offering suggestions for better conservation of wild animals while protecting interests of farmers as well.
 
