MOHALI: The residential and commercial areas in Zirakpur are raising a stink due to lack of   in the parks and marketplaces.

 Residents can barely go out for morning or evening walks in the gardens due to the foul smell that emanates from the waste dumped in the open.
 
 With absence of dustbins in residential and commercial areas, the residents are forced to dump garbage in parks and roadsides.
 
 Geetanjali Sharma, a housewife residing in   said, “The basic problem is the stink that irritates us everyday. People throw vegetables and other waste in the park. The food waste also attracts stray animals which again becomes a problem for us. Dogs keep on roaming around the park and we live with a fear of being attacked.”
 
 Although Mohali district administration had been ordering different departments to involve in the cleaning drive, they lack proper dumping site for 2.5 tonne of waste produced everyday in the city and 1 tonne collected from Zirakpur.
 
 Zirakpur MC used to dump the waste in a water stream following which they shifted to the dumping ground near   and then near Industrial area located in Derabassi.
 
 Then the residents, here, started raising objections. Gmada chairman too ordered to shift the dumping site from Phase 8B to some other place as Phase 8 is surrounded by the international IT companies. Finally,   ordered to shift the dumping ground to   village and also install solid waste management plant. However, objections started pouring in from Samgauli villagers also.
 
 Sumit Verma, a resident of Silver City and working in Industrial Area, Mohali, in private company said, “MC is giving a new ugly look to the city. Inspite of cleaning, they are changing from the site from one place to another. As a result, Mohali has now three dumping sites, and residents have also started to dump the waste in these sites.”
 
 People working in industries too tolerate the foul smell inside as well as outside their offices. Food has become unhygienic. People drinking underground water in the surrounding areas are not safe anymore.
 
 Gurpreet Singh, a resident of VIP road said, “The need of hour is that   should fix a place where it would dump the waste.”
 
 MILA N K Sharma said, “A private company has been hired and 12 garbage points will be fixed in Zirakpur soon. They will also collect waste going door to door and also from the roadsides.”
 
