CHENNAI: Calls for a thorough probe of the circumstances leading to the death of former   chief and chief minister J Jayalalithaa are rising by the day, with the Madras high court on Wednesday receiving two more PILs seeking a medical investigation into the mystery shrouding the treatment she received in hospital and the events preceding her death on December 5.

 The first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice M Sundar on Wednesday wondered how many more litigants would file cases on the issue, and posted the two new PILs to January 9, that it will hear along with a pending PIL by AIADMK member P A Joseph.
 
 Of the new PILs, AIADMK supporter from Nagapatti nam Gnanasekharan filed one and social activist K R 'Traffic' Ramaswamy the other.
 
 The bench had earlier dismissed at least three PILs seeking details of Jayalalithaa's medical treatment and photographic proof of her wellbeing. The present crop of PILs asked the court to form expert committees to call for and analyse Jayalalithaa's entire medical records from  .
 
 Joseph, however, sought that a three-member committee of retired   judges probe the data. Gnanasekharan wanted e court to direct the Union the court to direct the Union home secretary to appoint a committee of medical experts from the CBI's medico-legal cases and give them power to seize Jayalalithaa's medical records for the past two years.
 
 Doctors from AIIMS and Apollo Hospitals who treated Jayalalithaa in her last days must produce before the court in a sealed cover all medical records on the treatment they gave her, the PIL said.
 
 Though the bench was reluctant to entertain more PILs on the issue, after R Gandhi, Gnanasekharan's senior counsel, pointed out that a vacation bench has issued notices to all respondents including the Prime Minister's Office, Union ministries and Apollo Hospitals, it clubbed the new PILs with the pending one and said it would hear them together on January 9.
 
 Ramasamy's PIL sought a special team of the CBI and IB to probe the details of Jayalalithaa's medical treatment.
 
