National Award-winning filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali was physically assaulted on the sets of his historical drama, Padmavati, in Jaipur. Karni Sena vandalised equipment and also attacked crew members, alleging that the film is distorting facts. The group reportedly acted on the basis of Ranveer Singh’s interview in which he had supposedly mentioned a dream sequence featuring a love-making scene between Padmavati, the queen of Chittorgarh, and his character, Alauddin Khilji. Anshuman Bhomia, DCP (North) Jaipur, said, “By the time we reached the shooting spot, everything was cleared. No FIR has been lodged by anyone, but five persons were detained for disturbing peace. They were produced before the magistrate on Saturday and have been released.”

 As per sources, Bhansali has agreed to give Karni Sena in writing that there would be no intimate scenes between Padmavati and Khilji. Mahipal Singh Makrana, State President of Karni Sena, said, “We have jotted down questions and will mail them to Bhansali and his team. The questions are related to Rani Padmini’s role in the film. If his answers are satisfactory, then we will allow him to shoot in Rajasthan.” When we reached out to Bhansali to check whether he had agreed to give details of his movie to Karni Sena in writing, there was no response from his end till the time of going to press. 
 Meanwhile, the attack has shocked the film industry which feels creative freedom is being curbed. BT spoke to members of the film fraternity, who have strongly reacted against such acts of violence towards creative people: 
 
 Creative freedom curbed 
 We have hit a curve in history where the film industry has to abandon its politics of silence and express its outrage. Enough is enough! Silence now will tantamount to betrayal. We have to condemn publicly the very idea that some people have the right to repress others. When we neither punish nor reproach evildoers, we are ripping the foundations of justice from beneath new generations. These dastardly acts happen because no punitive action is taken against the publicity mongers. Outcry shouldn’t be selective. It should be 
 without any fear or favour.
 Mahesh Bhatt, filmmaker
 
 A filmmaker is physically attacked in broad daylight and no one in the ministry concerned has anything to say! Why are the government bodies quiet? This goondaism will continue for as long as these publicity-seeking activists are not booked for their acts. If we have to curtail this, we have to protest. It’s a different matter that we’re not even considered an industry by the government. This attack highlights the fact that even basic freedom of movement and expression in this country is fast becoming a distant dream for its citizens. This is not the free India our fighters gave their 
 lives for. 
 Mukesh Bhatt, filmmaker 
 
 Inhuman and shameful! This is terrorism of a different kind!
 Rajkumar Gupta, filmmaker 
 
 It’s a good way for the Karni Sena, whoever they are, to gain some free publicity. I am not clairvoyant, but this is a worrisome trend and the central government seems to be turning a blind eye to it.
 Naseeruddin Shah, actor 
 
 It’s terrible. How can one stop art or artistes like this? How can one assault an artiste like Sanjay Leela Bhansali? This is not acceptable!
 Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury, filmmaker
 
 
 It’s disturbing and sad. Action needs to be taken. We need to unite and take this up together.
 Ram Madhvani, filmmaker
 
 It’s a slap on the face of the entire industry. We should stand up as one and demand justice.
 Sudhir Mishra, filmmaker
 
 What happened in Jaipur with Sanjay sir is appalling. I’m disturbed and angry. Who are these guys? What gives them the right to do this to us? They do it just because we take it and don’t fight back! This has happened to all of us. The industry has to teach these goons a lesson. We have to speak to the government to take strict action against them and give us an assurance that this won’t happen again.
 Omung Kumar, filmmaker 
 
 
 It is terrible and shocking. Anyone who feels that a filmmaker has misrepresented history should either protest in a peaceful manner or make a police complaint. But to take the law into one’s own hands, attack the director and vandalise his set is an insult to democracy.
 Renuka Shahane, actor
 
 Historical fiction is a genre in the West. Re-looking the past in a kaleidoscopic way is the sign of a mature nation. Everyone has the right to interpret Padmavati’s story. The Karni folks are just piggybacking on Bhansali. We need to take legal action and stop such attacks on art.
 Tisca Chopra, actor
 
 
 
 It’s disgusting! This happens when the ‘fraternity’ tries to play safe and placate everyone, to the point of sycophancy. It’s time to take some strict action against perpetrators. We shouldn’t seek refuge behind our diplomatic and apolitical masks. I’m cynical because most of us are cowards who react only when something affects us directly. We’re selfish and not really a fraternity in the true sense. Our silence will cost us dearly some day!
 Hansal Mehta, filmmaker
 
 This is a complete breakdown of law and order, approved and fuelled by a narrative manufactured by our elected representatives. Our state is busy abusing the machinery to bully artistes who speak up against state-empowered crimes. And these anti-national criminals will continue hacking away at our democratic fabric. Not only are they likely to be rewarded by the state’s silence, but also by our attention. 
 Anand Gandhi, filmmaker 
 
 Period films that courted trouble 
 
 Meghna.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com
 
 Bajirao Mastani (2015)
 A political worker demanded that the release of this period drama, based on Peshwa Bajirao’s romance with his second wife Mastani, be stalled. Days before release, claims were made that historical facts had been meddled with. Bajirao and Mastani’s descendants demanded to see the film before release. Its song Pinga was also criticised for featuring the Peshwa’s wives dancing, which deviating from facts. 
 In an earlier interview to BT during the Bajirao Mastani controversy, Sanjay Leela Bhansali had said, “Apart from a handful, the rest will understand the film’s spirit. The songs and dance are not meant to hurt sentiments. We’re not being insensitive or writing off the greatness of the warrior. He lived with the soldiers and celebrated victory. If celebrations are shown through dance, why are people objecting to it?” 
 
 Goliyon Ki Raasleela - Ram Leela (2013)
 A week before release, the film found itself courting controversy. A petition was filed by six people against the film to have its original title Ram Leela changed. They felt the movie could hurt religious sentiments because it contained sex, violence and vulgarity. The title changed 48 hours before release.
 
  (2008)
 The Ashutosh Gowarikar-directorial drew ire from a section of Rajputs weeks before release for misrepresenting history. The film’s screening was banned in Rajasthan because the community contested that Jodhaa was married to Salim, Akbar’s son while the film portrayed her as his wife. It was also pointed out that Jodhaa was incorrectly shown as Raja Bharmal’s daughter. The movie was also banned in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand.
 
 Rang Rasiya (2008)
 Painter Raja Ravi Verma’s granddaughter sent a legal notice to the director, Ketan Mehta, asking him to stop the release of the film because it portrayed her grandfather in an erotic manner. 
 
 Mangal Pandey — The Rising (2005)
 A petition was filed against this Ketan Mehta film, based on the life of soldier Mangal Pandey, for portraying him in bad light. The film showed him having a relationship with a courtesan. Political parties joined the fray. Reportedly, in August 2005, a ban was demanded because the protestors felt the film indulged in character assassination.
 
 Asoka (2001)
 This period drama got into a cultural controversy when historian Dr Manmath Das disapproved the movie for misrepresenting the city of Kalinga. Oriya culture’s torchbearers even urged the then CM of the state,  , to ban the film. 
 
 We have packed up and the team along with Sanjay Leela Bhansali has returned to Mumbai. Bhansali will never shoot in Rajasthan again because he’s extremely hurt by whatever happened on Friday. It’s a huge loss for us and to Rajasthan, considering an ace director like him has boycotted the state. Shootings are one of our primary sources of income and this has resulted in a huge financial loss. 
 — Chirag Deep, line producer, Padmavati
 
