KOLKATA: A layer of grimy yellow covers everything as far as your eyes can see. Lamp posts are bent. Two floors of school and college buildings have disappeared under water. Smaller houses have been swept away without resistance.

 The catastrophic floods that have swallowed large swathes of districts in south Bengal have erased the existence of Jangalpara village in Hooghly’s Purshura. Three hundred families in the village, which now resembles an overflowing river, have taken refuge on the elevated state highway connecting Arambag with Bankura.
 
 “We were plain lucky to have escaped,” said Haripada Kundu, a 67-year-old farmer, looking out from a roadside perch onto the ruined village. “The water gushed in and swept away everything. My family could salvage only the basic things before we fled to save our lives.” Purshura, one of the most-affected blocks in Hooghly, is around 75kms from Kolkata.
 
 Large parts of south Bengal have been inundated since early this week following incessant rains and release of water by DVC. The brimming rivers have unleashed havoc, claiming at least 28 lives till now. Six people have died in Hooghly alone. A boat capsized in   on Friday morning, killing one person. 
 
 Early this week, when Damodar began to swell and inundate villages, villagers helplessly from the elevated state highway. “We become homeless like this every year though this year the situation is severe. What is shocking is that the administration comes to our rescue only after the damage is done. No precautionary measures are taken to avert the disaster,” said Pushpa Hansda.
  
  
 As people waited here for rescue and relief on rooftops, balconies and on the wayside, fear was gradually giving way to anger and resentment over what some saw as a slow response to flooding. In Mirzapur village, where the water was about seven feet at its deepest point and several small homes were washed away, residents alleged that rescue boats and relief materials were being taken to another area. Some said only the politically connected were being rehabilitated. Others complained that the state administration was incompetent.
 
 The district administration has, however, claimed it has managed to reach every pocket of flood-affected areas barring a few areas in   that are completely cut-off.
 
 “We are distributing rice, baby food, potatoes, pulses, salt and water pouches at the panchayat level. The representatives are receiving the relief materials and taking to their areas to distribute among the affected people,” said Hooghly DM Sanjay Bansal. 
 
 Hooghly MLA Tapan Dasgupta admitted that there were not enough boats to access the hinterland submerged in water. “We will get five boats by Saturday from Balagarh. This will help us reach every pocket,” said Dasgupta.
 
