KOTTAYAM: The students of a self-financing engineering college in the district have levelled serious allegations of   against the college management. Following the complaints by the students and their parents to the chief minister and education minsiter, an inquiry team from APJ   Technological University (KTU) visited  , Mattakkara near here on Friday. Registrar G P Padmakumar and controller of examinations S Shabu were part of the team.

 Meanwhile, tension prevailed on the college campus in the morning after some female students were locked inside a room by the management to stop them from meeting the inquiry team. The SFI, ABVP and KSU students took out separate marches which turned violent. Following the protest, the girls were released.
 
 The probe team collected statements from students, parents and representatives of the management. The registrar said that the complaints were of serious nature and a detailed inquiry would be required. Chairman of the college, Tom T Joseph, was not present during the team’s visit.
 
 The complaint said that around 30 students had to discontinue their studies due to the management’s torture. The complaint also speaks about the high-handed rule of the chairman. Though TOI tried to contact governing body member Ruben Jose Tom, the chairman’s son, over the phone, there was no response.
 
 A student’s mother alleged that the chairman would visit the girls’ hostel at odd times. “On some nights, he would visit the hostel as many as three times. A third-year female student has been made in-charge of the reception at the chairman’s office,” she said. She added that the hostel warden once made a sick student clean the toilets at 5am just because he did not wake up early to study.
 
 A second-year chemical engineering student who wanted to leave the college said: “The chairman asked for a compensation amount for reliving me. So, I stayed back. But he used to abuse me using unparliamentary words in front of other students and teachers,” he said. “He slaps fine if a boy looks at a girl and if a male student is seen around with another boy he calls them gay men,” he added.
 
 Another student, who had attempted suicide by consuming toilet cleaning solution after the chairman abused her in front of her father, came to the college on Friday to give her statement before the registrar. Though the girl, from a financially backward family, had secured admission on merit, she decided to leave as she could not adjust to the situation in the college.
 
 “Despite securing admission on merit, I was asked to pay Rs 4 lakh for getting relieved. The chairman also sent me for counselling and told my father that I was involved in many relationships,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP state general secretary Shobha Surendran said that the government was trying to sabotage the inquiry into the death of the engineering student, Jishu Pranoy.Though the chief minister has announced a solatium to Jishnu’s family, he is trying to protect the interest of the self-financing college management, she said at a news conference in Alappuzha on Friday. 
 
