GURUGRAM: Eight city-based activists have started an online petition to pass the “Tree Act” in Haryana to protect the state’s green lungs. The Act lays down heavy penalty for cutting a tree. In its absence, offenders get away with a fine of merely Rs 100 for cutting a tree in Gurgaon, while the same offence costs Rs 34,000 to Rs 55,000 in Delhi under the Act.

 According to the activists, environmental violations are rising in Gurgaon in absence of the “Tree Act”. “There is heavy penalty for cutting a tree under the Act, which helps bring down the felling of trees. We are losing trees every day and thus need a strong   at the earliest,” said   from Save Aravalis, an environmental NGO. Bhadana started the online petition, along with seven others, and got over 120 supporters within five hours.
 
 “Without ‘Tree Act’, it is easy for any party to axe trees for commercial projects. The penalties of tree felling are negligible. This encourages the culprits to continue doing their job without taking much pain. Even the officials sometimes feel like they do not have enough power to let them realise their crime. For a sustainable future, we need the ‘Tree Act’ to be passed by the government of Haryana. The government needs to come up with a solid and effective ‘Tree Act’ to empower the departments and organisations to save our precious trees and forests for a liveable future,” states the petition. 
 
 As per the ‘Penalties, Bar of Suit and Rules’ under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900, “Any person who, within the limits of any area notified under Section 3, commits any breach of any regulation made (restriction or prohibition imposed, order passed or requisition made under sections 4, 5, 5A or 7A (or obstructs or resists in any way whatever the execution of acts or things done under Section 13) shall be punishable with imprisonment of a term which may extend to one month, or with a fine which may extend to Rs 100, or with both.”
 
 “Haryana definitely needs a strong ‘Tree Act. The objective is to have a deterrent, not to earn money. PLPA or any other tree protection Act is only implemented in 11 districts of Haryana. Even in Gurgaon district, Farrukhnagar and Manesar are not notified under PLPA. We need to preserve trees in urban and semi-urban areas, especially the old trees as they are genetically best of their species. Every old tree is a house of so many insects, reptiles, birds, animals and fungi,” said MD Sinha, conservator of forests (Gurgaon circle).
 
 Some, on the other hand, feel that only fines need to be increased. “PLPA can be made stronger. I think fines should be increased. However, the Act can remain the same. The problem is PLPA has not been implemented by officials and there is corruption in the department,” said  , a former forest conservator.
 
 Not just Delhi, many cities such as Mumbai, Chandigarh and Chennai have laws to protect trees.
 
 
