NAGPUR: In yet another jolt to controversial lawyer  , Nagpur bench of  , on Tuesday, directed collector to attach his plot located at   with a view to recover huge arrears of fines levied on him and towards expenditure incurred by the city police in searching him. The lawyer now has over Rs4 lakh fine on his head imposed by the court from time to time for failure to comply with its directives. 

 The specially constituted division bench comprising justice Prasanna Varale and justice Zaka Haq also slapped a fine of Rs25,000 on Uke’s counsel VD Jagtap, for his failure to attend court’s hearings. He was granted last chance in previous hearing, after he failed to respond to court’s notices.
 
 Terming his continuous absence as ‘gross misconduct’, the judges directed Bar council of   and Goa to initiate disciplinary action against the lawyer and submit report by June 9. Jagtap had signed on Uke’s form, but failed to signed on Vakaltnama.
 
 Another lawyer RS  , who acted as Uke’s notary, was personally present during the hearing, after court’s warning. He tendered an oral apology through his counsel   and sought time to submit written apology. Accordingly, he was granted time till June 14.
 
 Earlier, the police pointed out that they were incurring huge expenditure in executing arrest warrant against the “tainted” lawyer and searching him. Their team also extensively searched at Delhi, but couldn’t succeed.
 
 The court was then informed about Uke’s plot in Bokhara, which he had mentioned in his affidavit. The judges then asked the collector to complete formalities by next hearing.
 
 During last hearing, the court warned both lawyers — Kakad and Jagtap — to cancel their licenses, as they failed to respond to its notices and were avoiding service of notice to them for a long time. Additional public prosecutor (APP) Ketki Joshi then informed that the they were served with notice through e-mail, WhatsApp and even through registered mail.
 
 In new suo motu contempt against Uke, another division bench comprising justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and justice Vinay Deshpande had directed the city police to execute bailable warrant issued against him. The cops were told to complete formalities before June 8, while advising them to take due diligence to comply with its orders.
 
 Uke achieved a dubious distinction of becoming first lawyer in the city’s history to be convicted for the contempt of the court. It was also the first case in Nagpur court’s history where proceedings are video recorded.
 
 
