BATHINDA: Despite the three-tier security ring around every strong room where EVMs are stored in the state, Aam Aadmi Party ( ) has deployed its workers to “keep vigil” at such places. Even though the voting for electing a new set of the state legislators is over, party volunteers will continue to be ‘on duty’ for more than a month.

 As counting of votes in Punjab will take place on March 11, along with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, at some places in Bathinda district, AAP volunteers have erected tents and dug in for the long haul. The party leaders have justified the exercise as move to stop any “misadventure”. 
 
 AAP ‘s organizational head Durgesh Pathak told TOI, “Our party came into being to challenge the existing political system and those who are managing the system can stoop to any low to stop it from gaining power in Punjab.”
 
 “To check any probability of misadventure with the EVMs, we have asked our volunteers to keep vigil of across the state despite tight security around strong rooms,” he said.
 
 Sources said AAP leadership has asked its district units to “deploy” at least 15 volunteers where EVMs have been kept. They have been asked to keep a watch in shifts all through the nights.
 
 In Patiala, a group of party volunteers erected a tent on Sunday night and plans were being made to put up tents outside the Institute of Hotel Management, the PESCO training centre and the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, where EVMs of all the six assembly constituencies falling in Bathinda district are being safeguarded till the counting day.
 
 Similarly, AAP volunteers have decided to pitch in tents by Monday night at S D College in Barnala where EVMs of three assembly constituencies have been kept.
 
 AAP’s Bathinda media coordinator Neel Garg said, “The party leadership has asked us to put 15 volunteers on the round-the-clock duty to keep a watch on the EVMs. We have decided to pitch tents outside the places where EVMs are kept.”
 
 AAP candidate from Barnala Meet Hayer’s election agent Prem Kumar confirmed the move, saying, “We have already deputed die-hard activists of the party on duty which will continue till March 11.”
 
 Bathinda district electoral officer (DEO) Ghanshyam Thori said, “Three-tier security apparatus, involving paramilitary forces and men from Punjab Armed Police, has been put in place for full security of EVMs. The strong rooms storing EVMs are under constant vigil of the CCTV cameras. Papers have been put on the gates of strong rooms with signatures of candidates which till tear off if anyone tries to open them.”
 
 
