AGRA: In a move quite unprecedented in the BSP, two of its candidates this time are looking at Bollywood to add dazzle to their party's campaign.   has traditionally relied on the star power of its supremo   and a handful of other leaders.
 
  At least two BSP candidates, from Atrauli (Aligarh) and Chhata (Mathura), have invited film stars for their campaign in the next couple of days. On the penultimate day of campaigning as west UP goes to polls in the first phase starting February 11, Bollywood stars Anil Kapoor, Zeenat Aman, Nana Patekar and Ameesha Patel would do road shows and participate in public rallies for Manoj Pathak in Mathura; Mahima Chaudhary and Suniel Shetty would be campaigning for Atrauli candidate Ilyas Chaudhary.
  
  Talking to TOI, Chaudhary, who is contesting against Kalyan Singh’s grandson and BJP candidate Sandeep Singh, and SP’s Viresh Yadav, said, “I’m just fulfilling wishes of the people of my constituency who wanted to see these stars.” Though he admitted that film stars attract crowds, he refused to comment if their presence would boost his chances in the hustings.
  
  While Manoj Pathak was not available for comments, his aide Jai Kant Tewari confirmed that Anil Kapoor, Zeenat Aman, Nana Patekar and Ameesha Patel would be campaigning for them.
  
  BSP’s Mathura district president Satyaprakash Kardam admitted that this is for the first time that their candidates are inviting film stars for campaigning. “Our star campaigner is only Behenji (Mayawati). These film stars are coming as the candidates have a personal rapport with them,” he said.
  
  BSP’s Aligarh district president Arvind Aditya said, “Both Mahima Chaudhary and Suniel Shetty are personal friends of Ilyas Chaudhary and they are coming to assist him.” He, too, refused to comment on why film stars were being called by a party that has always relied only on the star appeal of Mayawati.
  
  A BSP leader, on the condition of anonymity, said many candidates feel that since “Behenji” cannot go to campaign for all of them, they need film stars to counter the BJP and SP-Congress alliance which has a bunch of Bollywood stars on their side. “While the BJP has Hema Malini and Smriti Irani, the SP-Congress alliance would be using the services of Jaya Bachchan and Raj Babbar,” the leader said.
