If you’ve recently been to the vegetable shop to do your daily grocery shopping, you must have been alarmed for the price at which your local vendor is selling tomatoes to you.

 Corporate professional Snigdha Gautham who lives near Dadar says, “I normally send my maid to do the grocery shopping, but for the past three days, she has been complaining that the prices of 
 tomatoes have soared. So, yesterday I decided to go to the market and check it out myself. The usual guy we go to had only two kilos of tomatoes left which he was selling for `110 a kilo! When I asked him to reduce the rates, he said he doesn’t have enough stock on him and thus can’t lower the price.”
 
 
 
 With the rise in the prices of tomatoes, there are many who feel that it is the Goods and Services Tax (GST) that is responsible for it. Shashi Verma, a resident of central suburbs says, “We normally go to the nearest Chembur market to do our vegetable shopping. But, two days back when we went there, tomatoes were being sold for `85-100 a kilo. When we asked the vendor about the high price, he said it was because of GST.”
 
 Adding to this, a vegetable vendor from the western suburbs says, “We were told that it is because of the farmer’s strike and GST. After the strike got over, the prices went down to `40-50 a kilo. Just before GST, they were being sold for `60 a kilo and now they’ve reached the maximum — `80-100 a kilo.”
 
 While the blame game is still on, a spokesperson from the APMC market in Vashi (wholesale market) feels the need to clear the air. He says, “People should not believe in such rumours. The hike in the price is not because of GST or farmer’s strike at all. It is the lack of rains this year which has to be blamed for the rise in prices. Also, most of the stock have got damaged while being brought to the city and thus most vendors had to throw them away.”
 
 
 
 Prabha Saoba a resident of Wadala says that the wholesale markets are selling tomatoes at far reasonable rates than the ones which are being sold at retail markets. She says, “I travelled all the way to Vashi to check out the prices of tomatoes and was surprised that it was being sold for `55-60 a kilo whereas in my area, tomatoes are being sold for `100-120 a kilo.”
 
 Rakesh, a vegetable vendor at Pali Hill market in Bandra, says, “We don’t have a choice but to increase the rates of tomatoes. If we buy a kilo for `70-80, we try and sell it for `100-110, so that we can make some profit, else our business won’t thrive.”
 
 
 
 While consumers don’t have much choice but buy tomatoes at the rate their local vendor is offering, there are many who are offering discounts to their loyal customers. Vegetable vendor Ramesh Gupta from South   says, “Since it isn’t easy to give a discount on half a kilo of tomatoes or even less than that, we encourage our customers to shop over a kilo so that we can waive off anything between `30 or `50 on the bulk purchases.” 
 
 
 
 Many took to online purchase of veggies once they got to know about the sky-high prices of tomatoes. However, they did not find solace there as well. Shraddha Vaidyanathan, a resident of Thane says, “The day the prices shot up, my husband sat down to order tomatoes online. However, he called me up an hour later to tell me that the prices are high there too (about `86 a kilo). There was no point, so in the evening, we went to the local veggie guy and bargained with him and got a kilo of tomato for `75.
 
 
 
 Rakesh says, “Consumers are buying on a day-to-day basis, according to their usage.” Adding to this businessman Hemant Shah says, “If not consumed, vegetables have a high chance of rotting. Also, the tomatoes which are being sold in the market at the moment, are not in a good condition. Thus, the trouble of shopping for it on a daily basis.” 
 
 
 
