Mumbai:   may shun the limelight, but investors in his firm  , the owner of   chain of retail stores, have no such qualms. On Monday, they bought heavily into Avenue shares, boosting its market cap past the Rs 50,000-crore mark and its share price to a new high of Rs 806.80. The shares rose 7% initially before ending the day 3.3% up.
 
  Investors' fervour for Avenue has shown no signs of easing since March 21 when its shares listed at more than 100% premium to offer price of Rs 299. The shares are up 160% as of Monday , making Avenue the most expensive brick-and-mortar retail stock in the world on key financial parameters.
  
  While giants such as Wal-Mart, Costco, Tesco, Target, Metro and Carrefour among others are trading at a market cap-to-sales ratio of below 1, Avenue is trading at nearly 5.6 times. The market capto-sales ratio measures the premium that investors are willing to pay for future sales.
  
  D-Mart's eye-popping valuation and the stock surge have forced analysts and fund managers to warn about irrational exuberance.Though investors don't mind paying a premium for the fastest-growing and most-profitable retail stock in the country, they are finding it difficult to justify the 96 times FY17 multiple for the stock.
  
  “The stock with low float is getting into bubble territory“ said Sanjiv Bhasin, EVP-markets, IIFL. “We are extremely cautious.“
  
  The FY18 numbers discount the current market price by 65 times compared with 16.8 times for WalMart, 30.05 times for Costco and Target's 13.33 times.
  
  Avenue's sales and market cap are tiny compared with the retail biggies of the world but the fact that investors are willing to pay lavish premium to own the stock is helping the Mumbai-based firm hog the global limelight.
  
  “Valuation at nearly 100 PE is not at all justified, but investors are giving Avenue Supermarts a lavish valuation because of its growth visibility and clarity in strategy ,“ said Daljit Kohli, head of research, IndiaNivesh Securities. “It is a quality play on the Indian retail sector and investors are paying hefty premium as there are limited options to invest in the fast emerging Indian retail sector.“
  
  Avenue is worth $7.52 billion at end of trading on Monday, more than that of  ,  , Dr Reddy's,  ,   or Marico.
  
  Over the past five years, Avenue's like-for-like sales has grown 20% on an average despite subdued macro environment. Despite new store additions, same store sales growth (SSSG) numbers have not seen any significant moderation, implying healthy performance of the old stores.
  
  “From a 12-month perspective, we believe scope for absolute returns is limited, even as long-term investors may continue to own this name given low float and healthy long-term growth prospects,“ said Latika Chopra, analyst, JP Morgan. “Given limited catalysts for   surprise, we do not find room for further re-rating, rather, we highlight potential risks on the downside related to delay in store openings, soft comps growth andor increased investments in e-commerce.“ 
