GURUGRAM: It’s official. Gurgaon’s first   and demolition   treatment plant will be built at  , which is around 5km from the city.

 The plant, according to MCG, will be spread across 3.5 acres of land and will process 500 tonnes of waste a day. “The land has been allocated by the corporation, and the location of the plant has been kept close to the city so that builders don’t need to bear high transportation costs,” said an MCG official.
 
 The private company, which has been assigned to carry out treatment of construction and demolition waste, will recycle it and manufacture tiles. The company, according to an MCG official, has already applied for no objection certificate ( ) from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). “We will examine what are the provisions that need to be set up. It is a commendable step as dumping of construction and demolition waste poses a major threat to environment,” Bhupinder Singh, Regional Officer,  , said. 
 
 The tiles, an MCG official said, will be used by the civic authorities — MCG and Huda — for their construction projects. The tiles will be sold to the authorities at the rate of Rs 360 per tonne.
 
 Earlier, MCG had identified four sites — Sohna, Pataudi, Badshapur and Gurgaon city — for dumping construction and demolition waste. However, it has been kept on hold for some time as the authorities could not come with an effective plan for waste treatment.
 
 The move, according to MCG, will help the civic body stick to the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had asked it to set up a plant to treat construction and demolition waste on the city premises.
 
 There are around 161 big construction sites and more than 1,000 small and mid-sized construction sites in and around Gurgaon. Over 350 tonnes of construction and demolition waste is generated every day in the city.
 
 The plant will be built on a public-private-partnership (PPP) model and the contractor will run the waste plant for 20 years. It is expected to be functional within seven months. 
 
 
