GURGAON: The   ban on sale of liquor within 500m of national and state highways has presented an unexpected opportunity for pubs, bars and hangout joints in parts of the city that are further off from the arterial NH-8, along which Sin City had grown so far, and where around 200 bars, pubs and restaurants have suddenly stopped serving alcohol.

 Outlets serving liqour in Galleria,   and Golf Course Road are emerging as some of the new party spots. According to owners, business has gone up by 30-50% in these outlets in the past week, as residents look for new places to unwind.
 
 “Even though it’s Navratri, footfall has increased by almost 50% over the last couple of days. Keeping in mind the April heat,   and post-Navratri rush, we have already doubled beer taps and service staff,” said Sameer Dhar, who runs   in Cross Point Mall in DLF Phase 4.
 
 Just next door, Galleria mall, which has five outlets serving liquor, has witnessed a substantial increase in footfall. “Since Friday, we’ve seen a 30% increase in footfall. I’ve also seen new faces, different from our regular clientèle,” said Kanishk Goswami, owner, Uptown, Galleria.
 
 The other stretch which has quite a few watering holes is Golf Course Road. Interestingly, Striker Pub & Brewery in Global Foyer Mall on Golf Course Road, which was supposed to be shut down on March 31, decided against it. According to sources, Striker is run by the same people who run four outlets in Cyber Hub, and the Supreme Court liquor ban changed their minds, though staff at Striker denied the speculation. “We’ve definitely seen an increase in number of patrons and the business,” said the employee, refusing to comment on the rumour of the outlet shutting down.
 
 Residents TOI spoke to said the ban won’t stop them from going out and having a good time. “They can’t stop us from drinking or partying. People will find a different place to hang out, even if Cyber Hub shuts down,” said Amit Shrivastava, a property consultant working in Gurgaon.
 
 Women, though, appeared worried about Cyber Hub and Sector 29 liquor outlets closing down. “Cyber Hub and Sector 29 are close, safe and monitored party hubs, where we don’t have to worry about the crowd or miscreants. Going to stand-alone joints could be riskier for women,” said Shefai Mitra, a homemaker.
 
 Five star hotels, many of which are located along NH-8, are looking for explanations to give to their international clients. The only two high-end hotels not affected are Taj Vivanta and  , who did not comment.
 
