LUCKNOW: A popular cafe at the Engineering College crossing in Jankipuram is abuzz with   over a cup of tea, coffee and snacks. As varied as the menu are opinions in favour of or against the political parties and candidates in the fray . As one among a group of three snackers declares   will get the largest share of seats in UP , another interjects to say the tide is in favour of   and its president   .

 “Metro project, facelift to the city and rural electrification will make people vote for Akhilesh,“ said Akash Joshi, an engineer, even as he is cut short by his friend Siddharth Pandey , saying, “Modi's magic will work...he is a messiah.“ Sipping messiah.“ Sipping tea on an adjacent table Hamid Hasan, a civil services aspirant enters the conversation saying, “Muslims have always been used by political parties since Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 and what did we get in return? No university , no skill centres for minorities. For that matter, what did people of Ayodhya get? We do need somebody like Arvind Kejriwal in UP .“
 
 The conversation attracts attention and another visitor to the cafe Anushka joins in.“I don't see much hope for Akhilesh as his party failed to provide security and safety to woman. Akhilesh government made only superficial efforts to address the problem,“ she said, adding that all privileges are only for the well connected.
 
 Businessman Rahul Solanki pitches in with his strong dismissal of Modi.“BJP will pay a heavy price for demonetisation and besides the party has no face to project as CM of the state and outsiders are deciding its fate,“ he says.
 
 On another table, private school teacher Anurag Patel stops being a mute listener and advocates for Akhilesh citing Women Power Line 1090 as a shining example of the government's the government's tiative to ensure ety of women.His friend Mahesh Singh, on the other hand, has another point of view and bats for BSP . “Everyone agrees that BSP's USP was law and order which has no parallel in the regime of any political party. Being a woman, Maywati is well aware of the problems women face,“ said Mahesh, but he is silenced when everyone questions why Mayawati took mafia don Mukhtar Ansari into her party . Meanwhile, a local contractor Brajesh Nath Rai, intercepts saying, BJP has always remained a party that advocates social values and is a guardian of country's pride.
 
 
