A  , who was studying law in Bengaluru, ironically found himself on the  . After being sentenced for  , he was also blacklisted from coming to India. He spent the last dozen years   in the Karnataka High Court so that he could come back and pursue his studies. Finally, his wish has come true.

 Mehrad Rezaei Baravati is now 52. In the 1990s he arrived in India from Iran to study law. Though he had arrived in India on a valid passport and visa, the visa had expired on March 15, 1996. He had not got it extended.
 
 The local police in Anekal, where he was residing, on information raided the house he was staying in and submitted a report. Based on the report a case was registered against him and his passport was seized. He was found to have violated the Foreigners Act by overstaying in India beyond the valid visa date. A trial court convicted him in 2005 and sentenced him to undergo simple imprisonment for two years and pay a fine of Rs 10,000.
 
 The law graduate’s tryst with Indian law which started in 2003 did not end until about a week ago. He appealed against his sentence which was rejected by the appellate court. He then approached the High Court for the first time.
 
 The HC observed that he overstayed to complete his law courses. He had completed LLB and was perusing LLM. He had already spent two months and 25 days in prison. The HC reduced his sentence from two years to the time he had already spent in prison.
 
 Baravati was sent back to Iran. But he always wanted to come back and complete his law course. In 2005 his name was entered in the blacklist file of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through Indian Embassy in Tehran, Iran. He could not come to India as long his name was in the blacklist. He filed a petition in the Karnataka High Court again to get his name removed. In February 2015, the court directed him to make a representation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
 
 His representation was not accepted and he was told that his name would remain in the blacklist. He approached the HC again in 2016 to get his name removed form the blacklist and “allow him to pursue his studies”. His case was finally disposed on April 27, 2017.
 
 After more than 12 years, Baravati can now come back to India legally.
 
