Delhiites are known for their jugaads to get any work done, and turns out, it was only through jugaad that   from   managed to bag an audition for the singing reality show  . Had he not used one for the auditions, he says that he would never have gotten an entry into the show and win it. "Jab Delhi mein kisi show ka audition hota hai toh 10,000-12,000 log toh pahunchte hi hain. I got to know about the auditions from my uncle, and when I went to give the audition, wahan itni public thi ki mujhe pata tha ki pehle din toh number aayega hi nahi. I could not get an entry on the first and the second day. On the last day, I knew that I had to give the audition somehow. It was almost night and they were auditioning only the last 10 candidates. Maine bahut haath pair jode, jugaad baithaya kisi se, phir jaake entry hui. A month after the Delhi auditions, I was called to Mumbai," says Farhan, the winner of the show.

 He has been flooded with congratulatory calls and messages from his neighbours and friends in Laxmi Nagar. "Wahan toh dhol aur baaje ke saath intezaar ho raha hai mere swaagat ka. I even got a call from the MLA of our area. He said that he wants to celebrate when I return. This is a big honour and even I am waiting to get back home after spending six months in Mumbai," says Farhan, who used to sing at a cafe in  . "I come from a family of musicians. My father is a tabla player and has played for the likes of Hariharan. I decided to be a singer, as I was trained in it and there were none in our family. When my father got hospitalized, I dropped out of school as I needed to earn money to support my family. I started singing in a cafe in West Delhi, and that experience helped me earn money and trained me even better. Delhiites love music, aur aise bahut se log hain jo restaurant aur cafes mein sirf khaana khaane hi nahi, music sunne bhi jaate hain. The feedback of the people there helped me improve myself. I got many fans there jo mujhe sunne ke liye hi aate thay," says Farhan.
 
 Farhan is returning to Delhi on March 17, and plans to use his prize money to fund his sisters’ education. "There is a lot that needs to be done for my family first. Only then will I decide how I want to take my singing forward," he says. 
 
