Couples are no longer settling for just a dinner date or a rendezvous at a spa on Valentine’s Day. Event organisers reveal that many couples come looking for some   to spend the day with that special someone. And a variety of such events have been lined up for the day. Clearly, romancing over travel, food, art and music is the mood of the hour...

 
 
 For those who love outdoors, there are plenty of activities lined up. Away from the hustle-bustle of the city, overnight camps for couples have been organised. Besides camping, good music and barbecue session, there are activities like archery, rifle shooting among other games too. Gunjan Shah, an adventure expert who organises such events, says, “This time, we wanted to go beyond just camping. Apart from an ideal location, which is right in front of the lake, we also organised a mid-level trek. We have even arranged for a rumba and salsa workshop for the couples on camp.”
 
 
 
 If you and your partner love treasure hunts, this is your chance to turn to thrills with an Escape Game. Takshal Sanghvi, who has conceptualised a game, in which the couple is locked in a room and has to escape, says, “We have various indoor adventure games but this is a special game for couples. It is a unique way to tell your partner just how much you love them. Once, a guy wanted to propose to his girlfriend in a unique fashion. So, he planned it with us and the girl had to search for the clues until she was presented with a ring at the end. We are receiving many such requests even now.” 
 
 
 
  are not new, but a food walk with a focus on sweet treats, especially for couples, is a new one. Akash Ahuja, who is part of one such group that organises theme-based city walks, speaks of one such dessert crawls. He says, “We usually organise walks spanning five to six food joints and try to visit hidden hideouts. It is a mix of rare places, iconic joints and those with a story behind them. This is perfect for food and dessert lovers. The walk also ensures that they burn out the calories they pile on after gorging on the desserts!” 
 
 
 
 If you are done with the regular couple dances and wish to try something new, get grooving with  , a sensuous dance form straight from Africa. Dancing duo, Namrata Wittke and Elvis Mascaren, has have planned dance workshops for an entire month. Says Namrata, “The highlight is the pre-Valentine programme planned for today, where couples can learn Kizomba, which resembles Tango. The songs are soothing with romantic beats. We also have dance games and on Feb 14, we also organise a Valentine-themed social. Here, with the help of dance, couples can build on the moment and propose to their partners. Dance is a great way to come closer and it applies to all. We get a lot of calls from enthusiasts of all ages — even those in their 50s and 60s.” 
 
 
 
  is a sureshot way to bond with your partner as you get your hands dirty together, literally, while creating something new. It is extra special as it doubles up as a handmade gift for your lover. And you need not be an expert in it as you can learn the techniques at a workshop, too. You can play with colours and create a unique art work. Nelson Fernandes, who has devised workshops on similar lines, says, “Instead of spending money on an outing, it is better to spend some time together and create concrete memories. We have been conducting these workshops for a while now and the response is only growing each year. This year, along with ceramic mug painting and pottery class, we have also introduced a spray painting workshop.”
 
 
