Older son of the late actor says his father had drawn up a will naming him as the sole owner of their house on Nepean Sea Rd, contradicting the claims of his younger  

 The   between the sons of   over her   has taken a new twist with a   coming into the picture. The document was made by her husband in 2010 and was hidden all this time by her younger son, alleges his brother.
 
 Kiran, 45, and his elder brother Yogesh, 57, are locked in a bitter dispute over a flat belonging to their mother, the quintessential Bollywood mother from the 1970s, at Embassy Apartments. They are particularly fighting for exclusive rights to one of the bedrooms used by their mother saying their “sentiments“ are attached to it.
 
 Kiran has told the Bombay High Court that his mother wanted him to have all her properties and that his father Kamal Roy had drawn up a will bequeathing the Embassy Apartments house, a 3,000-sq flat with a sprawling garden, naming him as the sole owner.The flat is estimated to be Rs 100 crore at prevailing rates.
 
 Yogesh has now informed the court that his father had written a second will naming him as the sole owner of the disputed flat. A house at Gulmarg building in the same neighbourhood was to go to Kiran as per the sec ond will, according to Yogesh.
 
 Citing the second will, which was apparently registered in 2010, the older brother has also claimed that the other properties of the family are to be equally divided between the brothers.It also reportedly says that Kiran would vacate the Embassy Apartments house within three months of his father 's demise.
 
 “ The testamentary petition for probate of the said will of 2010 was filed by the executor and is currently before the High court of judicature at Bombay, “said Amna Usman, who is representing Yogesh.
 
 However, Zulfiquar Memon of MZM Legal, the lawyer for Kiran, said the document was fake. “We are aware of the forged will and we have challenged the same. The law is very clear.Registration of a will is not mandatory and does not authenticate a will. Yo gesh has gone to the extent of making false statements to various departments and unauthorisedly managed to fabricate a lot. When the time comes, the truth will surface.“
 
 In the ongoing fight in HC, Kiran's petition accuses Yogesh of “threatening and intimidating“ him to gain “complete control“ of the house.
 
 According to Kiran, his mother had bequeathed all her properties to him, and Kamal Roy in his last will had also named Kiran as the sole owner of the Nepean Sea Road apartment.Based on this will, which was made in 2004, Kiran has sought an order from the court to permanently restrain Yogesh, his wife and two children, and their servants, from accessing the portions of the house occupied by Kiran and his family besides equal rights to common areas such as the hall, kitchen, and the garden.
 
