Mumbai: On a day when the Narendra Modi-led BJP government completed three years in office, the   rallied 448 points, or 1.5% — its best single-day points gain in over two months — to end at an all-time high level of 30,750. The Nifty, too, rallied 1.6% and ended at 9,510 — also a new peak. 

 Market players said that while upbeat commentary about the US economy from the Federal Reserve had given the initial boost, the strong rally in the last two hours of Thursday’s session was on the back of frenetic speculative buying ahead of the expiration of derivatives contracts for the current month.
 
 Banking, capital goods and IT stocks led the day’s rally, with HDFC Bank, L&T and ICICI Bank leading the sensex stocks. On the other hand, pharma stocks continued to witness a selloff with Lupin, Sun Pharma and Dr Reddy’s among the top index laggards.
 
 “Market sentiment was upbeat from the beginning, taking cues from the US Fed meeting minutes, wherein indications were mixed on a rate hike in June. It further gained momentum in the latter half, partially due to a strong surge in select index majors and short-covering in the derivatives space,” said Jayant Manglik, president (retail distribution), Religare Securities.
 
 The day’s rally has also instilled confidence among   investors after two sessions of volatile trades, dealers said. The current rally is also backed by the relatively strong economic fundamentals like low inflation and fiscal deficits, low rate of interest and continuous flow of foreign funds. The government’s resolve to roll out GST on July 1, which is the biggest tax reform in the country in decades, is also adding confidence to investors on the Street, they said.
 
 Data showed that in the last three years, the sensex has gained over 24% while the nifty is up by more than 29%. As a result, investors’ wealth, as measured by the BSE’s market capitalisation, is now at Rs 124 lakh crore. Translated into US dollar terms, India’s current market cap is very close to the $2-trillion mark. Interestingly, the rally in the last three years has been majorly supported by domestic mutual funds who have net pumped in over Rs 1.81 lakh crore into the stock market. Foreign funds, usually who led most of the previous bull rallies in the country, have played a second fiddle with a net inflow of Rs 1.45 lakh crore, official data showed.
 
 
