CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notice to   deputy commissioner (DC) Maniram   for humiliating villagers during his raids against those defecating in the open.The villagers say Sharma has been degrading people by posting photos of them going to fields in the morning on Facebook. According to the petitioners, they go out to collect fodder for their cattle and other related works, but the DC gives an impression that they are going out to defecate. 

 The issue reached the court when one Islam, a resident of   village, and others from nearby villages of Mewat filed a petition against the bureaucrat. The court has asked the Haryana government through the department of social justice and empowerment to reply to the plea by September 28. 
 
 The villagers told the court that no law has been enacted or rules notified against open defecation and yet Sharma has been “harassing, torturing and humiliating“ people of the area by misusing his powers to enforce the Open Defecation Free (ODF) mission Most of the people in Mewat area have to go to the fields early in the morning because of their dependence on agriculture, but the DC has been wrongly correlating these with `call of nature' and defaming the dignity of the people by clicking their pictures and making them public on social sites. The DC has been labeling them hardcore criminals who have committed serious crimes,“ argued  , counsel for the petitioners.
 
 The villagers say the DC's actions violate their fundamental right. Khan has sought directions to the authorities concerned both at the Centre and the state “to issue charge sheet and punish the officer for his undemocratic, improper and illegal attitude towards the people of the area“.
 
 In June, Sharma was criticised by several groups after he uploaded on Facebook a picture of four men detained for defecating in the open.
 
 The picture showed the four men squatting in front of a police jeep. The post had drawn protests for `inappropriate' language used by the officer about the men. The picture was later removed from the Facebook account.
 
