CHENNAI: Private firm   was singled out for scathing criticism by   of   in   for indulging in discriminatory conservancy practice. 

 The firm's subsidiary, Chennai Municipal Solid Waste pvt ltd, (CMSW) is responsible for clearing garbage in zone 13 (Adyar) of the Greater Chennai Corporation.
 
 On Thursday, residents in the fishing hamlets of Urur, Olcott and Thiruvalluvar Nagar released a report titled 'Discrimination by Design', which compared the conservancy plan executed by Ramky in their villages and in nearby Besant Nagar, where more number of residents with a higher income ceiling reside. According to the report, Ramky flouted its own conservancy micro plan for the fishing villages. Though the micro plan calls for assigning one garbage collector for every 300 households, Ramky assigned only two collectors for Urur-Olcott Kuppam which has 980 households. "...in the sparsely built sub-regions of Besant Nagar, Ramky's micro plan over-allocates service resources. As a result, four collectors have been allotted against a requirement of three," the report said.
 
 A spot visit arranged by the local residents revealed the pathetic situation, as garbage bins were overflowing and waste lay strewn around a 10-metre radius of each bin. Sundaramoorthy, the local village head, said the garbage had not been cleared for days.
 
 Pradeep Kuttuva of Garbage Watch, an arm of The Other Media NGO, which released the report, said that Ramky had under-assigned conservancy personnel for Urur-Olcott kuppam. "These discrepancies are in violation of Ramky's contractual obligations with the Greater Chennai Corporation," he said.
 
 Even in street sweeping, the report said that Ramky serviced less than 50% percent of all streets in Urur-Olcott, while the coverage was slightly over 95% in Besant Nagar. "Nearly, 1.6 km of street length in these hamlets had not been considered at all in Ramky's micro plan," said environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman.
 
 Refuting the allegations, S Ravi, head of operations for CMSW ltd, said that Ramky had allotted three garbage collectors for the area. "The residents in the area are non-cooperative. We collect garbage as early as 7.30 am but most residents would be sleeping and some even try to attack my workers for disturbing. We have conducted awareness programmes with the help of the corporation but the locals just throw the garbage outside the bin," he said.
 
 
