BILASPUR:   is leading to an increase in the number of   in Bilaspur. Dr Akhilesh Deoras,   and member of   (IMA), said this at a press conference on   on Tuesday. On this occasion, pulmonologists of the city also appealed to citizens to protect themselves from dust and immediately consult a doctor if there are symptoms of asthma. 

 Talking to reporters, Dr Deoras said 19 years ago when the first Asthma Day was observed across the world, its objective was to remove myth and delusion from the minds of people and make them aware about proper medication. He, however, said that even after almost two decades, people do not have proper knowledge about its medication and care. He also blamed atmosphere of Bilaspur and said that dust in the air due to digging of roads is one of the major reasons for asthma.
 
 He said that asthma is a long-term disease and requires a long-term treatment. Some patients stop taking inhaler when they feel well but this can be hazardous. Patients with asthma should always consult their doctor before stopping their medication, he warned.
 
 Dr Deoras said asthma is on account of exposure to various irritants and substances that trigger allergies (allergens) that are signs and symptoms of asthma. Asthma is different from person to person and can include airborne substances such as pollen, dust mites, pet dander or particles of cockroach waste. It is also due to respiratory infections such as common cold, air pollutants and irritants such as smoke and dust.
 
 He said that it is important to diagnose asthma at the initial stage to protect lungs. Asthma signs and symptoms include shortness of breath, chest tightness or pain, trouble in sleeping caused by shortness of breath, coughing or wheezing. It also includes a whistling or wheezing sound when exhaling (wheezing is a common sign of asthma in children).
 
 He said asthma can be diagnosed by using simple equipment like pick flow meter. 
 
 This equipment is used to monitor asthma. He said asthma can be controlled through inhaler therapy.
 
 
