NAGPUR: In a high precision surgery, doctors at   (GDC) relieved a 25-year-old youth of pain he was suffering from since birth as he was not able to open his mouth due to fusion of jaw joint to the skull base. The condition is called temporomandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis.

 The youth, Tushar Rane (25), a resident of Wanadongri, was operated upon by a team of surgeons headed by department head Dr Abhay Datarkar on Thursday. Tushar was discharged on Saturday. Despite facing acute pain, Tushar completed graduation in electronics and telecommunication from  . He said, “To get the defect corrected, I visited Mumbai but the cost of surgery was Rs1.5 lakh eight years ago which my family couldn’t afford. Here we had to pay only Rs500.”
 
 GDC dean Dr Sindhu Ganvir said, “It was an altogether difficult take to carry out the surgery.” She said, the rate of ankylosis patients in India can be one in 100. Such a disorder can take place if the delivery procedure goes the wrong way. Dr Datarkar said, “There was a huge chunk of tissues in his jaw joint. Instead of opening it and taking it out altogether, a 35mm incision was made beneath the lower jaw and the tissue was released. Through the same channel, local tissues were filled in the gap.”
 
 The department of oral and maxillofacial surgery of GDC has performed four such operations in the last six months. It was for the first time it treated a patient with inability to open mouth since birth. Besides, the case was rare as the youth had other complications like cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy. All this made the task of operating him more challenging.
 
 Anaesthetist Dr Sanjay Bule said, “It was challenging to give local anaesthesia due to associated multiple problems. The mouth root was inaccessible and neck was at sloping angle to the body due to which intubation was difficult.” He said, “Since it was important to keep him on artificial ventilation while giving anaesthesia we used nasal channel instead of mouth and inserted fibre optic bronchoscope through it blindly.”
 
 Tushar had been living on liquid diet since birth due to the disorder. He was malnourished as he could not take solid food. The TMJs allow motions of the jaw that facilitate eating, speaking and making facial expressions. He has now started eating solid food.
 
 The surgical team included Dr S Daware, Dr Abhishek Akhare, Dr  , Dr Jagdish Patil, Dr Varsha Manekar, Dr Shweta Kamble, Dr   and Dr  . The support staff included Jyoti Pandagade and Vinod Pantawane.
 
