KOLKATA: A day after four men robbed Chandrani Jewellers at Jodhpur Park, police are on the verge of identifying two of the accused — one of whom they think is a local. Cops also suspect the guns reportedly brandished by the robbers may have been toy pistols. 

 Investigation revealed one of the accused led his team from outside the store while his three associates looted the store. They held the lone security guard returning from lunch at gunpoint. They hit him with the revolver butt before looting the store. The entire operation was carried out within 10 minutes. Sources said that three of the accused fled the spot by boarding a bus outside the shop and changed clothes on the move. Bus driver Ram Avatar Yadav and conductor Sadhan Pal told cops the men got off at Gariahat and headed towards Ballygunge, perhaps to catch a train. The accused left behind a helmet, two umbrellas, two toy pistols and three sets of rain-soaked clothes from a high-end brand on the bus. Officers said they hoped that help from bus staffers on route 234, along with CCTV footages from Jodhpur Park, Gariahat and Kasba, can lead them to the gang.
 
 Officers added that a parallel probe has been launched to answer two queries — how the accused had specific knowledge that the CCTV cameras in the store were out of order and that most of the sales personnel were out for lunch and there were no customers inside. A background check of all the employees, both current and former, and their relationship with the proprietors has already begun. Two of the employees who were present during the incident have been questioned at  . Cops added that at least one person privy to information on Thursday’s incident has changed his statement twice.
 
 “The three men who carried out the operation were identified as being from outside   — from either   or Bihar — and we are certain that the fourth spotter who came on a bike is a local who can speak Hindi well. It is this local whom we want to nab at the earliest,” said a police source.
 
 Sources in Lalbazar confirmed that a few police stations bordering Gariahat have been alerted based on the description given by the conductor. The cops have also asked for inputs based on the sketch from their counterparts in two other states. “If we slip now, the accused might get away. We hope to make some breakthrough soon,” said an officer.
 
