PANAJI: The   (SIT), investigating into the Rs 35,000 crore   in the state issued summons to directors of eight mining companies on Saturday. It is for the first time that SIT has called in mining companies for questioning.
 
  “The summons have been issued and are likely to be delivered on Sunday,” crime branch superintendent of police Priyanka   told STOI and added that representatives of mining companies and lease holders would be called in during the coming week on different dates, beginning May 30.
  
  The summons have been issued to those mining companies that have operated on deemed extension of lease and without forest and environment clearances.
  
  SIT’s investigation has identified 53 beneficiaries of illegal mining.
  
  Those issued summons includes directors of   and Sons Private Limited, Chowgule and Company Private Limited, Bandekar Brothers Private Limited (RNSB Group), H L Nathurmal, Damodar Mangalji and Company Private Limited, Socied De Fomento Industries Private Limited, managing director of Timble Private Limited, and G N Agarwal Mining Private Limited.
  
  Investigation also revealed a significant mismatch between export data and iron ore extraction. Kashyap said the SIT has found that the mining companies have extracted iron ore without an approved mining plan.
  
    state president Vinay Tendulkar had said on Friday that those involved in illegal mining cases would be called in by investigation agencies.
  
  Chief minister   had directed Goa police to speed up investigations into the illegal mining scam as soon as he took over the reins of the government in March 2017.
  
  On July 26, 2013, the mines department had filed a criminal complaint in the illegal mining case with the crime branch seeking that it fix criminal liability against those involved in illegal mining. The department had also requested the police to file an FIR against persons identified in the Supreme Court-appointed central empowered committee ( ),   and public accounts committee ( ) reports.
  
  On August 19, 2013, crime branch had registered a FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, mines department officials and others identified in the three reports. SIT, which is presently a one-member team, is looking to speed up investigation into the matter. PI Dattaguru Sawant is investigating the case.
  
  The SIT was constituted on August 26, 2013, to investigate into illegal mining cases and all illegal mining cases were transferred to it.
