MUMBAI: Mudslinging and slander is not just restricted to elections of public representatives, it is now even part of campus elections at IIT-Bombay.
For the first time ever at the institute, postgraduate (PG) students were pitched against undergraduate (UG) students in the elections leading to a `polarisation' of sorts on campus and social media, claim students.Rumours even floated on candidates' poor grades and withdrawal from the contest to the extent that the dean of student affairs was forced to send out a mail warning students about the vicious atmosphere created.The `political war' concluded on Thursday with the announcement of the winners.
 
 While any student from the campus can contest the election, only UG students were contesting for years together. There was only one post for academic affairs, which had two general secretaries, one each for UG and PG. The remaining posts for hostel affairs, sports, cultural, were until now contested by students from the UG section alone.
 
 “It all started with the feeling that the UG candidates who hold positions in the council office after getting elected, do not really care about the PG problems. The masters' students, who form the majority of the PG population, are on the campus only for two years. The period is too short to gain influence and involvement in the campus,“ said a student. This year, PG students too decided to seriously contest the election. The ensu ing `political' drama that followed looked more like a fight between two major political parties, claimed a student.
 
 In a mail addressed to all students, the dean of students' affairs, S Mukherji, said, “I have been receiving very many complaints about a vicious atmosphere being created through various social media platforms, trying to create a divide between UG and PG students. This is unacceptable, and I think our students have more sense than to be swayed by such pettiness. I urge you to vote for the candidates who you think will do the best for the institute and for you, regardless of hostel affiliation and of academic category .“
 
 The institute's `election commission' addressed rumours which said a candidate for the position of general secretary sports affairs received a DX grade (course failed due to attendance shortage) and would withdraw from the election due to the same. “These rumours are completely false as neither are the two candidates in possession of a DX grade, nor are they withdrawing from the elections,“ it said. The students were urged to vote on the basis of the manifestos.
 
 The hostel affairs post was won by a margin of just around 300 votes, but the cultural affairs general secretary (from UG) won with more than 1,000 votes.Though PG students, including PhDs, outnumbered UGs, the latter continued to rule the council even this year.
 
