NEW DELHI: Deputy CM   on Saturday hit out at the BJP-ruled states for allegedly spending   on advertisements to celebrate three years of the Modi government. He alleged that over Rs 2,000 crore was spent by these states for the celebrations. Calling it a violation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines, Sisodia said the money should be recovered from BJP.

 Showing the advertisements published by states such as MP, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattishgarh and UP, Sisodia said, “BJP-ruled states are spending public money on advertisements to celebrate three years of the Modi government. We have found that BJP-ruled states have allocated a budget of over Rs 2,000 just for advertisements to congratulate the Modi government.”
 
 AAP demanded that BJP should pay for these advertisements and spend on public welfare projects. “Instead of spending money on public welfare to build schools, hospitals etc, BJP is spending it to celebrate Centre’s achievements. All this is being done at a time when schools, hospitals are closing down,” he said, adding, “We demand that Rs 2,000 crore be recovered from BJP and spent on public projects.” 
 
 In March this year, the CAG in its audit report was critical about the AAP government’s expenditure on advertising, non-conformity with the Supreme Court approved “guidelines for content regulation of government advertising” and lack of budgetary and internal control on expenditure.
 
 Following the report, Delhi LG Anil Baijal had ordered the chief secretary of the Delhi government to recover Rs 97 crore from AAP for its expenditure on advertising that was allegedly splurged by the government in violation of SC guidelines.
 
 On Saturday, AAP said that there should be a CAG audit of the BJP-ruled state government’s expenditure on advertising. “We had issued advertisements in public interest, requesting people to maintain calm during riots in Haryana as it could affect Delhi too. We issued advertisements to attract investors but were told that we violated the SC guidelines,” he said. “Governments of BJP-ruled states have violated the guidelines. We will request CAG to audit the advertisements issued by these state governments. We want CAG to do a comparative analysis of the ads issued by us and these state governments.” 
 
