KOLHAPUR: Finance minister Arun Jaitley's proposed cut in the corporate tax rate from 33% to 25% for   (MSME) will provide a much needed boost to the sector as around 75% of the industries in Kolhapur falls under this category. 

 Though the industrialists were expecting relaxations in excise duty and indirect taxes, they expect reduction in taxes will help them grow further.
 
 Mohan Ghatage, president of Kolhapur chapter of Confederation of Indian Industries, said, "The MSME sector is reeling under tremendous pressure after demonetisation and the proposed cut in corporate tax will give some boost to the sector. Boosting this sector will ultimately help in increasing activities at small and medium scale that will finally help the large sector. This will also help in employment generation in long term."
 
  leader   said, "Though the government has not made any special provision for farmers in this budget, the tax reduction for MSMEs is likely to boost the agro-based industries. Almost all agro-based industries from Kolhapur district are small scale industries and the tax relief will help in expanding their business."
 
 He added, "We had hoped that government will take some steps towards reducing excise duty which would have actually strengthened the MSME sector. At present, the tax waiver is a welcome move but to sustain these industries, we expected some more provisions. The major sector like textile has been completely excluded from the budget."
 
 The industry clusters from Kolhapur include readymade garment cluster, cotton fabric cluster, jaggery cluster, powerloom cluster, Kolhapur Diesel Engines, Kolhapur Engines and Components, Foundry cluster and Kolhapur Gold and Silver Jewellery.
 
 Kolhapur also exports agro-based products, leather footwear and mechanical items. The engineering industry, food processing and packaging industry manufacturer of leather chappals and related services are showing growth trends.
 
 There are 21,620 enterprises including manufacturing and service sector that provide employment to 1,66,612 people. The total investment in this sector from Kolhapur district is Rs 2,53,834 lakh.
 
