CHENNAI:   was not very familiar with landmarks like   or the more recent stretches like the OMR corridor; he just knew enough to get around. The 26-year-old from Namakkal had come to the city two years ago in hopes of better job prospects. 

 "The farming produce dwindled over the years and I saw my father struggle, I didn't want to end up like that," says Muthukumar, who now sits behind a wheel in an air-conditioned car to make a living - which at the time seemed like an attractive option given the decent wages that came with it. 
 
 But over the past year or so, the situation for him and hundreds of drivers tied to aggregators like Ola and Uber has turned sour as many of them have had to spare their hopes of making good money in the city with little sleep, and paying off large loans for vehicles on a dwindling take-home.
 
 Cab aggregators, it seems, have done a U-turn on the   model that they started with. They have now become passenger-centric with offers and rides for throw-away prices while driver earnings have steadily come down. 
 
 "I have to drive 20 hours a day to get the incentive. It's optional, but since the company takes away a big chunk of my earnings as commission and with ride fares now as low as 6/km, I really need the extra money to make ends meet," says Balaji, an Uber driver. After the recent rain of protests around the country, drivers in Chennai recently have also gone on strike demanding the government to set fares. 
 
 "Drivers have to pay off vehicle loans, tend to repairs and cover daily fuel costs which have been hiked so many times in the past three months," says B Anbazhagan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cab Owners and Drivers Association.
 
 While there were low-key protests by drivers in Chennai this week, the lack of state regulation continues to give rise to issues around policies designed by these corporates, which changes from state to state. 
 
 This is very likely a pointer to more trouble ahead than just disgruntled drivers who no longer have the assurance of making a quick buck, given the swelling number of cabs and cheaper fare options.
 
 "I don't like to drive compromising sleep and health, its not safe. But I have three cars running, and I have to pay off drivers and cover fuel. So it looks like I will be pulling many more all-nighters," admits an Ola driver, who showed his shift duration, which had been running for more than 24 hours without a break.
 
