New Delhi: The Delhi high court lamented the failure of the   in taking stalking   seriously, noting that in one such case before it, the attack on a girl could have been averted.

 Directing that the police must treat complaints of stalking seriously, the court upheld the life sentence awarded to a man who shot a woman after she rejected his advances, leaving her crippled for life.
 
 While upholding the man’s conviction, the high court noted that if the police had taken her complaints of stalking seriously, what happened to her “could have been averted”.
 
 Observing that cases of stalking were on the rise, a bench of justices G S Sistani and Chander Shekhar directed the   commissioner to sensitise the police to treat such complaints seriously.
 
 The court refused to show any sympathy to the convict, Arun Kumar Mishra, saying it would do “immense harm to the justice system and undermine public confidence”.
 
 It noted that “the appellant (Mishra) shot the helpless woman at close range in her back, making her life and the life of her family miserable. Every citizen has a right to live in dignity with a feeling of sense of security. The state must ensure that all citizens, particularly old women and children, do not live in a sense of fear and insecurity,” the bench said in its 22-page verdict, upholding the trial court’s decision.
 
 According to police, the incident happened on the morning of December 15, 2010, when the woman was on her way to a relative’s house on a two-wheeler.
 
 When she stopped at a traffic signal, the convict suddenly came and sat on her two-wheeler, and asked her to start moving if she did not want to get shot. Near Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi, Mishra asked the woman to marry him and threatened to shoot her. The woman asked Mishra to stop harassing her. However, he took out a gun and shot her in the back, the police alleged, adding that passersby caught the convict and handed him over to the cops. 
 
 Doctors who treated the woman told the court that the bullet had hit her spine, paralysing her below the waist for life.
 
