MUMBAI: While Indian carriers have never done a   on passengers they have had to offload, about 15,000 passengers were denied boarding last year by them and three of four of such flyers were booked on  .

 On Sunday , United Airlines forcibly evicted a passenger from an aircraft in Chicago to accommodate crew. The passenger was bleeding from the mouth when he was dragged through the aisle by the Chicago police. Footage of the incident has gone viral.
 
 In India, the ratio of passengers offloaded each year is way below the global average. Last year, the ten carriers in the Indian airline industry flew 9.98 crore passengers. Of this, 15,675 were denied boarding or offloaded by carriers, according to the   (DGCA). Jet Airways's figure was 11,901 passengers (out of 1.89 crore it flew in 2016). Between December 2016 and February this year, out of 8,150 flyers offloaded by Indian carriers, 7,266 were Jet Airways passengers. A distant second was   (808). In 2016, out of the 1.46 crore passengers it flew, AI denied boarding to 2,919.
 
 Low cost airline IndiGo, which flew the highest number of passengers (3.9 crore), offloaded only 23 in 2016.That is largely because unlike Air India, Jet Airways and Vistara, which are on the Global Distribution System (a ticketing system that allows an airline to overbook), the system used by IndiGo doesn't permit it to oversell.
 
 Compared to the global industry average, Indian carriers have pretty low rates of offloading. According to data from the Department of Transportation, US, 40,629 passengers were denied boarding involuntarily on domestic US flights in 2016. Southwest Airlines had the maximum number of such cases (14,979).
 
 In India, the DGCA does not maintain separate data on whether passengers were voluntarily or involuntarily offloaded. Its norms state that an airline should first seek volunteers and compensate them as they find fit (see graphic). If boarding is denied to passengers against their will, they should be compensated.
 
 Apart from providing hotel accommodation (wherever applicable) and booking the passenger on another flight, Indian carriers paid a total of Rs 6.35 crore in compensation for denied boarding last year. Jet Airways alone paid Rs 4.75 crore.
 
 Jet Airways didn't respond to a questionnaire sent by TOI. An Air India spokesperson said, “We are very much concerned about offloaded passengers. We accommodate them on alternate flights even in private airlines.“ So if you are booked to fly Jet and cannot afford to miss the flight, it would be prudent to do a web or mobile check-in before you reach the airport, print the boarding pass, and most importantly , reach the airline check-in counter early . But an airline official said, “While it's preferable to do an online or mobile check-in, it doesn't guarantee boarding. In fact, we find that passengers who reach the airport with a printed boarding pass are the ones who report last minute. They are then surprised when they are denied boarding. On the positive side, if the passenger is a frequent flyer and if the business class isn't full, they aren't offloaded, they are given an upgrade. But given the passenger load, that's rare these days.“
 
