BENGALURU: The recent spate of violence against toddlers in pre-primary schools, especially in Bengaluru, has got the   cracking down on kindergartens that are mushrooming across the state.

 It has set a   for all pre-primary schools across the state to register with the education department.
 
 Pre-primary schools that fail to comply are liable to be declared “illegal“. Once the deadline is over, the government will commence a combing operation to weed out illegal pre-schools.
 
 Primary and secondary education minister   said on Friday that the registration process has been initiated to streamline and regulate the pre-primary school sector that operates under various names such as play schools, prenursery, Montessori, playcentres, kindergarten, playhomes and child-centres. A circular to this effect was issued on February 27. 
 
 Several orders have been passed by the education department between 1996 and 2006 with regard to registration of educational institutions. But the pre-primary school segment had never been touched upon. In fact, the last circular issued in 2006 had made registration of pre-primary schools optional. However, a lot of changes have happened in the pre-school segment n the last 10 years and it is high time some regulatory mechanism was put in place,“ Sait said on the sidelines of the legislative council session here.
 
 Currently, play schools are allowed to be run by organisations and not by individuals. “But until something goes wrong, nobody knows who owns the pre-school or what shape it was in. There is a need to standardize the system,“ Sait said, referring especially to the alleged sexual assault on a three-year-old girl at a play school in Bengaluru's Bellandur area recently.
 
 “The only way to make the pre-schools a safe place is by fixing responsibility on those who run the same,“ Sait added.
 
 Though the government has no idea about the number of pre-schools operating in the state, sources in the education department maintain that it could run into thousands. “This is a multi-crore business. Pre-schools are now being run by housewives with no formal training in handling kids. In fact, pressure is being mounted on the government to relax the rule and allow individuals also to start pre-schools as it is turning out to be financially lucrative. In this backdrop, checks and balances have to be imposed on the pre-school segment to save parents and their kids from getting fleeced,“ an education department official said.
 
 The government is also contemplating weaving in Protection of Child Rights into the Karnataka Education Act through an amendment to rein in pre-schools.
 
