BHUBANESWAR: Two members of the   (RPF), who were allegedly seen kicking and hitting a physically challenged man at Balasore station on January 3, have been placed under suspension. The announcement was made by railway minister   in his twitter handle, late on Sunday night. The minister had ordered a probe after the incident went viral. 

 "I had taken immediate cognizance of the case, and ordered enquiry. Subsequently, two RPF personnel responsible have been put under suspension," Prabhu wrote in his twitter handle. 
 
 The two men have been identified as assistant sub-inspector H Choudhury and constable PK Routray of Balasore RPF police station. 
 
 "Senior RPF officials have started investigation into the matter and have interrogated the duo along with three other RPF staff," said a senior officer of the   (SER). 
 
 The incident came to light after Bhubaneswar-based social activist  , who shot the video on his mobile phone, passed it on to mediapersons.
 
 The video showed the RPF personnel kicking the man at the station even as he pleaded for them to stop. The man, who is physically challenged, doesn't have his right leg from below the knee. Jena said the RPF staff told him that a passenger on the Puri-Guwahati Express had alleged that the victim had stolen his mobile phone. Later, he was dragged out from the train and beaten up. 
 
 The incident has evoked sharp response with many criticizing the RPF personnel for beating up a physically challenged person at the railway station.
 
 Gouranga Panigrahy, a civil rights activist, said the RPF staff crossed their limits. "How can they behave with a physically challenged man in such a heinous way?" Panigrahy asked. 
 
 Lawyer Manoj Nayak of Balasore said the railways should take stringent action against errant securitymen which should send out a strong message to others. 
 
 RTI activist Jayanta Kumar Das of Puri has filed a petition before the national human rights commission (NHRC) urging stringent action against the RPF men. He also urged the commission to direct the Indian Railways to identify the victim and pay him a compensation of Rs 3 lakh. 
 
