KOLKATA: A missing engagement ring helped the police crack the mystery behind the   of a travel agency owner,   (32), and arrested his wife and her   from Barasat in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday.

 Singha was found killed at his home at Taltala in Hridaypur on May 3, when no one else was around. 
 
 Singha’s wife Manua (26) and her lover Ajit Roy alias Bubai, suspected to be the main assailant, have been remanded in 10-day police custody by a Barasat court.
 
 Calling it a “pre-planned and a rare, cold-blooded murder”, investigating officers said Roy called up Manua and made her listen to her husband scream while being murdered. Manua apparently remained unfazed even as Roy kept hitting Singha with a blunt weapon, till he died.
 
 A resident of Barasat’s Hridaypur and an employee of a money exchange firm, Singha, also owned a tour agency. He got married to Manua around one-and-a-half year ago, after a five-year relationship. But soon after their wedding, Manua reportedly began having an affair with Roy, who lived in the same neighbourhood as her parents’ place at Nabapally in Barasat.
 
 Cops suspect Manua got involved with Roy in absence of her husband, who would often have to travel to different places to conduct tours for his agency.
 
 “Trouble broke out when Singha came to know about Manua’s affair. He threatened Roy with dire consequences if he dared to get in touch with his wife again. After this, the duo conspired to kill him,” a police officer said. Singha was found murdered at his home on May 3.
 
 During investigation, the police found that all the valuables in the house were intact; only the engagement ring that Singha never parted with since the day he got married was missing.
 
 “Singha’s family members pointed out that the ring that he always wore was missing. Later, we found it in his wife’s custody and that triggered our suspicion. We also got to know about her extra-marital affair. Her paramour took the ring off the victim’s finger after murder him and returned it to Manua,” the officer added.
 
 “Manua initially tried to misguide us but we nailed her role, given the inconsistencies in her statements. We will take the duo to the spot to reconstruct the murder,” said Abhijit Banerjee, ASP, North 24-Parganas.
 
 
