PUNE: The local military authority has installed   at six places in Camp to strengthen security measures in the area.

 The barriers were installed off   near the Command Hospital, Right Flank Road, Prince of Wales Drive and near  . The barriers will be operated manually and will help restrict traffic flow whenever there is heightened security.
 
 Brig A K Tyagi, president of the   ( ), told TOI, “There is nothing on the ground to stop traffic if there are incidents like bomb blasts or strikes reported. We have installed boom barriers to strengthen security measures in such emergency-like situations.” 
 
 Tyagi added that the barriers are at places where the quarters of armymen are located. “The other reason for installing the barriers is that flow of civil traffic there is less. If there is heightened security, the quick response team of the army can rush to the spot and close the barriers to conduct security checks and monitor movement of traffic,” he said.
 
 He added that the security funds of the army were used for this, and said he has not ordered the closure of any roads.
 
 PCB chief executive officer   said, “If the roads belong to the army and it is passing via their unit lines, then there is no need to consult the cantonment board for installing boom barriers for security reasons as per a 2015 ministry of defence circular.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the army in a statement issued on Thursday said it had constructed two boom barriers on Right Flank Road to solidify the cement foundation. It had closed the said road on March 20 and 21. 
 
 The statement was issued in response to reports on the closing and opening of four key roads in Wanowrie in TOI editions dated March 22 and 23.
 
 The statement said, “The report of the roads closed in Wanowrie is wrong as only one road — Right Flank Road — was closed. Mobile barricades have been placed on other army roads with the aim of slowing down speeding traffic inside the cantonment area. It is clarified that these barriers have not been placed to close the roads.”
 
 “After the construction work of barriers got over on March 21, the barriers were kept open from March 23. Therefore, it is not pressure from the local population that caused the road to be opened, but merely because the construction work was completed by that date. Thereafter, traffic was allowed to resume on the road,” the statement said.
 
 “The army is committed to the well-being of the local population and would not take any such unilateral decision to unnecessarily harass the local population,” it further said.
 
 TOI had spoken to many residents who claimed the army had closed four roads and the barriers were installed before March 20. Many photographs were also clicked to show the closed roads. 
 
