VADODARA: Panic gripped the   housed in the heritage building when fire broke out in the ante chamber of collector on Tuesday noon. 

 The fire broke out due to   in the air-conditioner in the antechamber.
 
 According to fire department, they received a call at around 11.30. Officials said that sparks were first noticed in wires by a peon who was cleaning the antechamber. He immediately informed the collector’s personal assistant ( ) about it.
 
 However, by the time they went to the ante chamber, furniture and electrical appliances had caught fire. Fire department officials said that the fire soon spread to the PA’s room which is just adjacent to antechamber separated by a wooden partition and then to the visitors’ room. 
 
 Assistant fire officer Om Jadeja said that lot of smoke was trapped in the visitors’ room due to cramped space.
 
 Of the five doors in the collector’s room, ante chamber and visitors’ room, three doors were blocked by wooden ply. When fire fighters reached the spot, they had to break the wooden partitions and windows with rods to allow smoke to come out. By then, the false ceiling in the collector’s room had caught fire and the resultant smoke spread to the adjacent sub-divisional magistrate’s room 
 
 Fire officials said that they had dispatched around eight to 10 vehicles and fire was brought under control within an hour. 
 
 Meanwhile, inspector general of police (Vadodara range) G S Malik, whose chamber is just above the collector’s office and Vadodara (rural) superintendent of police Saurabh Tolumbia also vacated the building along with other staff members.
 
 Vadodara district collector P Bharathi who was in   at the time of the incident told TOI that the fire wasn’t a major one. “There was nothing important in the ante chamber except a couple of files and few books. However, due to smoke engulfed the ante chamber, people thought it was a big blaze,” she said. She added that the technical team is finding out the exact reason.
 
 M J Dave, resident additional collector said that fortunately a major accident was averted as the fire happened during the working hours. Had it occurred during the night hours, it could have resulted into major damages to the heritage building which has many wooden blocks.
 
 Bharathi who assumed the charge only on Monday may not be able to use her chamber immediately as black stains have covered the chamber walls.
 
