NAGPUR: In a major breakthrough, two researchers at   (LIT) have developed a biodegradable material from  . This new material can be developed into a bonelike substance that may replace metal implants in the future.

 The material was developed through two experiments. In the first study, a complex chemical (chitin) was isolated from prawn shells. The shells were treated in a  , which worked as a pressure vessel, to get chitin. In the process, the researchers also achieved success in bringing down the duration of the process for isolating chitin from 12-24 hours to just an hour.
 
 In the next study, chitosan, which was synthesized from chitin, egg shells converted into hydroxyapatite(HAp), gelatin, some biomaterials and other ingredients were synthesized to get a composite material with properties similar to natural bones.
 
 The first study titled ‘Process modification for isolation of chitin from prawn shell’ was conducted by MTech student Nisha Pujari under the supervision of associate professor Shekhar Pandharipande at the department of chemical engineering. Pujari and Pandharipande have applied for a patent and published the claim in the gazette. Pujari said, “Chitosan is being used in another technology of 3D printing of skin and bones. Our aim was to bring down its processing time from 24 hr to one hour.”
 
 The second study titled ‘Bone-like composite material from chitosan, HAp and biomaterials’ was carried out by MTech student Smita Sondawale under Pandharipande in the same department. Sondawale is currently working with the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research at Civil Lines.
 
 Both the studies were conducted as part of MTech projects and completed in August 2016. Pandharipande said other research students at the department also worked on the material to develop biodegradable films that can replace synthetic packaging material.
 
 Smita said, “Currently, metal implants are used to replace bone fracture or damage. With time, corrosion takes place and the implant has to be replaced. Our material is biocompatible so bones will regenerate over their own and the   will get absorbed into the body. There wouldn’t be a need to operate again and again, thus saving the patient repeated trouble.”
 
 Pandharipande said, “Prawn and egg shells are available naturally. The material can also be developed using shells of fish, crab or any crustaceans. This was a preliminary investigation. In the advanced stage, this material can be explored further to substantiate possible bone replacement. The composite material has calcium phosphorous ratio similar to natural bones.”
 
