NAGPUR: Relatives of a suicide victim whose body was kept in the cold storage at the   and Hospital (IGGMCH) mortuary were taken a back on Wednesday morning when the eyes and nose of the person were seen bleeding when the body was taken out for the post mortem. The mutilated body did shock the police also who have taken a note of the situation in their panchnama.

 This is not the first time that apparently rodents have nibbled and gnawed a dead body in the cold storage in the mortuary at IGGMCH. In April 2013, the Nagpur bench of   had disposed of a PIL following similar disfiguring of the body by rats in the IGGMCH mortuary asking the medical colleges to upgrade the mortuaries.
 
 The IGGMCH dean Dr Anuradha V Shrikhande told   that she was not aware of any such incident in the college. “There was no statement from the forensic medicine department or the relatives of the dead. I also learnt about the issue from media persons. I have asked the medical superintendent to seek details on the subject and report,” she said.
 
 The professor and head of the forensic medicine department Dr Makarand Vyawahare however admitted that the incident was unfortunate. “There are three doors to the cold storage. All of these don’t close properly. I have been communicating with the medical superintendent since I came to IGGMCH to send the dead bodies properly wrapped in cloth to the mortuary from the hospital. It is a sad incident. But no relatives have made any complaints to me so far,” said Dr Vyawahare.
 
 Dr Vyawahare also said that the work of closing the post mortem area for denying any access to relatives or visitors was on.
 
 However, sources in the IGGMCH said that the relatives of the dead had raised an alarm on seeing the disfigured body and had raised the issue with the department doctors. It was the   police station staff which conducted the panchnama first noticed the changes on the body after it was taken out of the cold room for post mortem on Wednesday morning. The victim had committed suicide on Tuesday.
 
 TOI has the photographs of the victim’s body with blood on the nose and some disfigurement on the eyes.
 
 
