LUDHIANA: A 35-year-old owner of an automobile repair shop at Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar in Dugri area was injured after a gangster, Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha Badewal, opened fire on Thursday.

 The injured, identified as Kiranpal Singh alias Kala of Shamimar Park in Dugri, was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and his condition is said to be out of danger.
 
 At 12:30pm, when Kiranpal was at his shop, Sukha Badewal and three unidentified assailants came near his shop in a white Swift car. Sukha was carrying a country-made pistol of .32 bore and his accomplices were carrying sword and sticks. 
 
 The assailants first vandalized the Kiranpal’s car parked outside the shop. At that time, Kiranpal was on the second floor of building. After hearing the noise, when Kala looked down, Sukha fired at him, missing the target. 
 
 Kiranpal’s friends who were on first floor also threw stones and bricks at assailants. Meanwhile, Kiranpal rushed downstairs with an iron rod and tried to hit Sukha. But the latter fired at him. Kiranpal fell on the ground as bullet hit his lower abdomen. Sukha also hit him on his face with an iron rod. 
 
 Kiranpal was taken to a hospital by his friends. 
 
 One of the eyewitnesses, Gurcahran Singh, a mason involved in construction work at the victim’s shop, said, “I was sitting outside after lunch when I saw four assailants armed with weapons coming near the shop. They vandalized the car, hurled abuses with naming anyone and asked them to come out of the shop.”
 
 “When Kiranpal came out of the shop, they shot him. They moved towards their car very calmly and went towards Guru Arjun Dev Nagar,” he added. 
 
 Another eyewitness  , 85, owner of a construction material shop adjoining the victim’s shop, said, “I was sitting outside my shop near railway crossing, when that car stopped. I did not bother, but as soon as I heard a fire, I got scared and rushed inside the shop. Assailants saw me, but thankfully did not harm me.”
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (crime)  , additional deputy commissioner of police-II Kuldeep Sharma, assistant commissioner of police (Atam Nagar) RS Bhullar all went to the spot. 
 
 Police have recovered three bullet shells from the spot and also taken the CCTV footage installed outside the construction material shop that has captured the entire incident. 
 
 ADCP-Crime Balkar Singh said out of all four assailants, Sukha Barewalia has been identified. Police have ruled out it to be a gang war. 
 
 He said, “In the preliminary investigation, we have learnt that the assailants wanted to attack victim’s brother  , who was a partner in property business with Sukha and four others.”
 
 The ADCP said Yadwinder, Sukha Barewalia, Arvinder Verma, Raj Kumar Verma, Gulzar Singh Grewal and   were partners in a property business and had developed some dispute. They had also fought outside Kiranpal’s shop last month. 
 
 Yadwinder has accused all his five partners of carrying out the attack on his brother. 
 
 Dugri police have booked the assailants under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC. 
 
