Dhrol/Rajkot: Slogans of ‘Jai Sardar, Jai Patidar’ resonated in several Patel-dominated villages in Jamnagar and Morbi districts where Congress vice-president   hit the campaign trail on the second day of his Saurashtra visit on Tuesday.

 People sporting Patidar caps lined up along the roadside to greet Gandhi who also adorned one with the ‘Jai Sardar, Jai Patidar’ written on it, which was given to him by members of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) members.
 
 The Rahul-Patels bonhomie comes on the day when Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel warned of renewed agitation for reservation under the OBC quota.
 
 While he invoked the legacy of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to strike an immediate chord with the community, which is agitating for reservation, Gandhi also shared their anger over ‘police atrocities’ during the violence that had swept the entire state after PAAS convener Hardik Patel’s arrest in 2015.
 
 “It was you (the Patel community) who gave the country Sardar Patel. But the BJP government committed atrocities on you. Bullets were also fired on Patels. This is not the style of Congress. We believe in moving ahead by keeping all the communities together,” said Gandhi.
 
 Gandhi utilized the ‘Vikas Gando Thayo che (Development gone berserk)’ meme to the hilt when he began his brief addresses at nearly eight places. Crowds yelled ‘Vikas Gando Thayo che’ in unison as Gandhi asked them, “Gujarat mein Vikas ka kya hua hai? (What has happened to Vikas in Gujarat?”
 
 “It looks like Vikas has gone bonkers because some people lied too much about it. We all need to develop Gujarat in the real sense,” said Gandhi.
 
 A day after hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over note ban, GST and employment, the Congress VP accused him of not giving Gujarat government a free hand. “The state government is being operated via remote control,” he said, addressing people in Latipur and Otala village.
 
 He also accused Modi of resorting to mere ‘jumla’ (gimmick) politics instead of doing concrete work.
 
 “You (PM) are busy in floating ‘jumlas’ and making tall promises. That is your way of functioning and not that of Congress. As the PM, it is your job to provide employment opportunities and solve problems of the country. If you can’t, then Congress will do so after coming to power,” Gandhi said.
 
 
