As residents of Gurgaon’s   rid themselves of a ‘poop thrower’ who was flinging dog excreta from an apartment, other RWAs come up with strict rules about where pets in the society can relieve themselves.

 An upmarket condominium in Gurgaon faced a bizarre problem earlier this month. An unidentified person was throwing dog poop at fellow residents from a high-rise in Belvedere Tower, DLF Phase II! In order to get to the bottom of the mystery, the residents’ association issued a notice, asking people to help identify the culprit. After the identity of the ‘poop thrower’ was discovered – a domestic help – all the dog owners in the condominium were requested to ensure that their pets’ excreta was disposed properly and not flung at unsuspecting residents. 
 
 While residents of Belvedere Tower are still trying to put the incident behind them, other RWAs in the city have come up with very specific guidelines to make sure the incident is not repeated in their societies. 
 
 
 In some apartments, residents are trying to promote ‘scoop the poop’ (picking up the pet’s poop and discarding it in a designated area), which is a common practice in the west. 
 
 Says  , resident of Orchid Petals, Sector 49, “I think it is an ethical responsibility of pet parents to scoop the poop. In our complex, there is a designated area for pets to relieve themselves. But if the pet is too old or not trained and poops somewhere else in the compound, it is the responsibility of the pet parent to pick it up and dispose off in a proper manner. To spread awareness, we have made a WhatsApp group of residents and we encourage people to report offenders. We reach out to those violating the rules and the RWA also sends them a notice. There are two-three areas designated for pets and they are also cleaned regularly after some pet owners complained that they were getting too dirty.”
 
 The RWA president of Orchid Petals, Rajiv Aggarwal, says, “We are a pet-friendly society, but at the same time, we need to ensure that the compound is clean, and no one faces any inconvenience. We have been sending out notices to pet owners after receiving complaints. A fine is imposed on a repeat offender. He/she should either use the designated area for pet litter or scoop the poop.”
 
 
  
  Some residents are trying to promote 'scoop the poop' in Gurgaon's apartments (BCCL)
 
 
 Some residents feel that domestic helps need training on handling pet litter. The residents told us that they have often noticed that despite giving instructions, domestic helps who take pets out for a walk, do not take them to the designated area and are fine with pets pooping in lifts, parks or in other parts of the compound. “We have decided to issue strict guidelines in our complex to handle poop. We already have around 105 CCTV cameras installed, but we plan to increase the number, so that we can take action against the offenders. We have also come up with posters and notice boards to spread awareness about pet etiquette and cleanliness. We are also planning to hold workshops to educate domestic helps, focusing on the need to take pets to the designated poop areas. We are also planning to make walking trails for pets, so that there is no inconvenience to either residents or the pets,” informs Amit Jindal, president, RWA, Vipul Greens of Sector 48.
 
 JB Yadav, manager, Pinnacle Condominium Association, DLF Phase V, Sector 43, says, “Even without monitoring, service lifts should be used for pets, and not the ones used by residents. At our end, the issue is not difficult to handle as our condominium is quite small, but strict steps need to be taken to tackle the problem.” A resident of DLF Phase-1 says, “At times, residents sitting in the park or walking in the complex would object to pet owners using the same area for pet litter, leading to arguments and in some cases, fights. RWAs should come up with specific guidelines to maintain clarity on the issue.”
 
 
 Although most pet owners welcome the move, they say that the designated area, and the walking trails for dogs, should be guarded and clean. Supriya Chawla, a resident of Vatika City, Sohna Road, says that her dog was stolen from the area outside the complex, which is designated for pets. “Luckily, we found our dog, but after the incident, pet parents in our condominium have requested the RWA to install CCTV cameras or appoint guards for the safety of pets,” she says.
 
 
  
