NEW DELHI: Accused of taking a long summer vacation despite mounting pendency, the   is set to create history as for the first time in its 67 years, three five-judge benches will sit on a day-to-day basis this summer and adjudicate issues of national importance.

 The nearly 50-day summer break has been a lightning rod for critics of judiciary even as pendency in the apex court crossed the 60,000 mark half a decade ago and continues to hover around that figure.
 
 But a bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D Y Chandrachud stressed that the coming summer vacation would be different.
 
 Justice Khehar announced that the bunch of petitions questioning the validity of triple talaq mode of divorce under Muslim personal law would be heard by a five-judge bench from May 11 to May 19 and suggested that if the lawyers agreed, the court was ready to continue sitting on the intervening Saturday and Sunday.
 
 Attorney general Mukul   said it would pose difficulty for lawyers as the   has also scheduled two other constitution benches during the same period to hear the new privacy policy of WhatsApp and Assam citizenship controversy. Let the other two constitution benches not sit at the same time as the constitution bench hearing triple talaq issue, he said.
 
 Rohatgi drew support from senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who said he was specifically requested by the bench hearing the WhatsApp matter to remain present during the summer vacation. “Parallel benches will pose difficulty for us to be present at both places and also prepare arguments for both cases,” he said.
 
 The   replied, “You choose where you want to be present. There is no compulsion for you to be present at both places. Choose the case you want to argue.”
 
 “If you say you don’t want to do it, we are happy not to work during summer break. But then don’t blame the judiciary and accuse it of delay and mounting pendency. We have worked in all vacations.
 
 We had utilised the entire summer break of 2015 to hear arguments on the constitutional validity of NJAC.”
 
 Hurt by the CJI’s refusal to accommodate him, Sibal said he would withdraw his consent to remain present in the WhatsApp case.
 
 
