CHANDIGARH: The   has advised public sector automobile giant   (MSIL) to vacate a part of its property that falls in the 300-metre restricted zone around the   in Gurgaon.

 These   came from a division bench headed by Justice S S Saron while hearing the ongoing issue pertaining to removal of encroachments around Air Force stations of Gurgaon and Faridabad. On the suggestion of HC, the counsel appearing for Maruti sought time from the court to seek instructions from the company in this regard.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing before the bench on May 23, the counsel for Maruti sought permission to implead the company as party in the case. The counsel said the company is a central government-registered entity and should be heard by the court as the Maruti property falls within the 900 metre as well as the reduced limit of 300-metre restricted zone around the depot.
 
 After going through the property map, the bench orally observed that only the delivery area of the company’s production unit falls within the reduced restricted zone of 300 m, and the company can easily vacate it.
 
 Hearing this, the counsel for Maruti told the court that he would be able to make any submission in this regard only after seeking instructions from the company.
 
 During hearing of the case, the bench also asked additional solicitor general of India, Satya Pal Jain, to clarifiy the powers of district magistrates delegated by the Centre for enforcement of provisions of Works of Defence Act, 1903, to remove encroachments in a 100-metre radius of the ammunition depot in Faridabad and 300 m from that in Gurgaon.
 
 The matter will come up for hearing on June 1. The matter reached the HC in 2010 through a public interest litigation seeking removal of constructions from the 100-metre area around the Air Force station, Dabua, in Faridabad, and construction within 900 m around the Air Force ammunition depot, Gurgaon.
 
 Following court intervention, the central government, in September 2015, told the HC that it had been decided to decrease the restricted zone around the ammunition depot of Indian Air Force, Gurgaon, from 900 m to 300 m. The Centre, however, made it clear that the area of restricted zone around Air Force station, Faridabad, remains 100 metre.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Maruti refused to comment on the matter as the company is yet to go through the court orders. 
 
