 — that’s what women in Hyderabad want to reclaim this  . And they made this loud and clear, when over 200 of them from all walks of life assembled at the Chacha Nehru Park for a 2-kilometre walk to spread their message. ‘March with us, don’t stare at us’ their placards roared, just in case you missed the point. “We can’t go here cos they will stare; we can’t do this, ’cos we will get groped, we can’t say this, cos we are girls... For how long?! How long will women have to lock themselves up in homes, or other ‘safe’ spaces that are sanitised and free of ‘strangers’, just to be able to feel free, feel safe and live normally? This city is ours too; we should be able to roam its streets freely, no matter what time of night or day it is,” says  , a code writer and green activist, sharing her vision for a gender-inclusive Hyderabad.

 
 
 Shouts of ‘None of us are free till all of us are free’; ‘Fight patriarchy’; ‘Towards our liberation’; ‘Stop violence against women’, ‘When women are liberated men will be free’, ‘Strict enforcement of laws against abuse of women’ reverberated throughout the streets. The aim was to sensitise people on the issues that women face in society and demanding for a city where all its citizens are truly free. “True freedom will only happen when I don’t need to think twice about what am I wearing before stepping out of my house, or wonder which male friend/relative shall I call to drive me back home safely at night or feel conscious about the many stares that pierce my body as I walk by a street,” says Nupur Shinde, adding, “My body is mine. I shouldn’t have to hide it or be ashamed of it or aware of it all the time just because we live in a society where staring is allowed!” 
 
 
 
 Driving home the message that women have the right to reclaim public spaces, were a five installations by women artists of Hyderabad —  ,  ,  ,   and  . These art pieces were installed in public places which are unfriendly to women; places where no woman can be seen alone after sunset — a park, an irani cafe, a grimy motor garage. “We’ve all grown up around such places where women wouldn’t dare go. these installations are symbolic of just that — the deep layers of patriarchy that have built these barriers within us and around us. They need to be broken. So through these 
 installations we would like to convey the idea that- we are here and we will be here, because this is our space too,” said Dr Avani Rao, who assisted the artists to put up the 
 installations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Never judge a book by its cover neither a place by its bad history or geography. You must pay a visit and then judge. When I came to Hyderabad six months ago, I was told by my friends not to go to places like Charminar, Monda market, Jagdish market, Hong Kong bazaar because of lecherous men who stare, catcall or sometimes, even grope. I was told that the markets are exquisite, but it’s safer if you are accompanied by men, especially after sunset. But I decided to visit the bazaars of Charminar anyway, and realised that the scenario was completely different. In fact I lost the track of time and went on a shopping spree till 11 pm. I am alive, I was not molested, stared at or groped. Many of these barriers are all in our mind. I have made up my mind to explore other markets soon, without the company of guys. That’s my promise to myself this women’s Day.— Soumi Bera, architect
 
 
 When I moved to Hyderabad, I was surprised to learn that girls have different dress codes for different places. Even if there is no such rule officially, women seem to follow certain unwritten rules by habit. If they have to visit old city, even the most outgoing girls I know dig out their salwar suits from their closets. If not, at least a dupatta or a shawl is required as an armour of sorts. When travelling by busses, no one dares step out without a dupatta. Why? What is it that makes us so vulnerable in a top and jeans? Why are we restricting ourselves and our freedom just because a few people around us have not evolved with time? I am most comfortable in tops, trousers and jeans and I won’t change my wardrobe for someone else. What’s more, I refuse to hide behind my dupatta. Now on, I will leave it behind no matter where I go.
 — Kiran Mai Das, Urban Planner
 
 
 This one time when I craved some Hyderabadi food, I went with my husband to a famous Irani café tucked away in Nampally, late at night. There wasn’t any another woman to be seen anywhere nearby. A lot of men kept staring at me because the last thing they expect is to see a woman eat at such a place. But we simply walked in, had our meal and walked out without a problem. If we want a city where women can feel comfortable going anywhere, doing anything, we women must take the initiative to start this change. If we’re going sit pretty at places we are comfortable in, and crib about how regressive people are and how unsafe places are, then we’re just playing the victim card. There won't be any progressive change. We need women to actively to break these boundaries in their own heads. Having said that, we shouldn't be brash in how we engage the other side. 
 — Tiqvah-el Varghese, IT Professional
 
 
 
 It’s 2017, and yet, if a girl is seen going to a cafe, a restaurant or a cinema alone, she will be greeted with raised eyebrows and curious stares. I face this all the time! I love going to movies alone so that I can watch them in peace without having to engage in conversation. But when I ask ‘one ticket’, the vendor always double checks to see if I 
 really am alone. The same happens when I say ‘Table for one’ at restaurants. it’s just a matter of normalising this idea of women being by themselves. We must go out alone more often if we want to cut down the wonder around it.
 — Vidya Sivalenka, production designer
 
 
 
 Everytime we plan a house party for just girls, it always boils down to, ‘who’s going to buy the booze?’ And we always end up asking one of our guy friends to go to the neighbourhood wine shop to fetch it for us. This one time however, a couple of us just walked to a wine shop, bustling with men, and asked for our drinks. Surprise! Nothing happened! And that’s when we realised, why should it be any other way? It was a busy street, we are adults with IDs, and there is no rule prohibiting women from visiting wine shops. Unless we push the envelope we will always remain trapped within boundaries we set for ourselves. 
 — K Shravya, digital strategist
 
 
