Chandigarh: Your  , which are a major cause of tinnitus — a hearing problem, where noise is perceived in the absence of sound — can be used as a therapy for treatment.

 In an effort to make the treatment cost effective,   had started using mobile phones instead of portable noise maskers costing anywhere between Rs 25,000 and Rs 30,000 for the  , As a follow up after six months, it was found that out of 30 patients subjected to mobile phones as noise maskers, 60% could be treated. The study has been published recently in the Indian Journal of Otolaryngology Head Neck Surgery.
 
 A total of 30 male patients with tinnitus were enrolled for therapy at the ENT department, PGI. “We see around 10 patients suffering from tinnitus daily. Using costlier noise maskers for sound treatment is not a viable option for most patients in India,” said Dr Sanjay Munjal, the first author of the study.
 
 Also, ENT doctors felt that most of the patients do not come for the conventional 10-15 days’ therapy as it turns out to be costly travelling from states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. As the mobile phone is a widely used gadget , noise maskers were created from the audiometer —a device which is used to assess the level of tinnitus — in the hospital .
 
 This noise varied from narrow to broad band width depending on the level of frequency of sound heard by the patient suffering with tinnitus. “So, for instance, a tinnitus patient has a perception of say 8000 hertz (unit of sound frequency), a noise of the same frequency from the audiometer is created. This noise is recorded and downloaded on to a digital sound recording system which is then shared with the mobile phone of the patient. The sound is converted into MP3 format,” said Dr Noorain Alam, investigator of the study in PGI.
 
 With this mobile-based masker, the tinnitus patients can hear it every day to overcome the sound perception as it works as a distractor. “This can be done at home. Patients are called for follow up for six months and have to come every week. However, with mobile maskers, we call them every month,” said Dr Alam.
 
 Box:
 
 New therapy for tinnitus
 
 For tinnitus treatment, an external noise is induced to divert sound perception
 
 This is possible by giving this noise to patient for 5 to 10 minutes
 
 Instead of using a portable noise masker, mobile phone is used
 
 How it works
 
 Using an audiometer in a clinical set up, it is checked at what frequency is the perception of sound reduced
 
 This noise is then recorded from audiometer to digital recorder
 
 The same is shared with patient’s mobile phone and converted to MP3 format.
 
 This noise can be heard every day for 5 to 10 minutes on mobile phone
 
 
