PUNE: The   on Friday registered a complaint against   (India) Private Limited — the firm hired by Infosys to ensure safety on its campus — for operating without licence under the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, two days after TOI reported it was functioning illegally.

 “A showcause notice will be issued to the security firm, asking why its licence should not be cancelled. After receiving reply from the firm, we shall take a call on taking action against it,” said joint commissioner of police  .
 
 The case against the firm was registered under sections 4 (providing security without licence) and 20 (contravention of certain provisions) of Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005. 
 
 Ramanand told TOI, “The licence issued to Terrier in 2011 lapsed last November. The firm applied for renewing the licence in October. On scrutinising the renewal application, we found that the firm had not submitted training certificates of the guards. We called a representative of the firm and instructed him to do the needful and re-submit details. But till date, the firm has done nothing.”
 
 He said, “After the murder of software engineer Rasila Raju OP came to light on January 29, we came to know that the firm’s licence had expired, but it was continuing with the business. Hence, we took decided to register the case for contravening the provisions of the act.”
 
 Ramanand said a drive would be launched to identity security firms operating without licence.
 
  (retd), one of the directors of Terrier Security Services (India) Private Limited, said, “As per the clause 8 of renewal of licence under the act, we have applied for renewal. It clearly states that the controller under the act should renew the licence within 30 days or reject it with reasons, but it has not been done. It is evident that services can be continued. An incident has happened, but it does not mean that we should stop functioning.”
 
 Probe progress
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III) Ganesh Shinde said, “We have collected electronic and physical evidence against the security guard,  , for committing the brutal murder of Rasila. The fear of losing job had compelled him to commit the crime. We shall produce him before the court on Saturday for seeking extension of his police custody remand.”
 
