BENGALURU: It was no less than an achievement for SM Ramesh, block education officer of KR Puram, when he successfully uploaded two   at the centre. “We have been at it since yesterday but the servers were down and we could barely begin the process. This is an encouraging start,” said a hopeful Ramesh. 

 On Wednesday, parents were asked to leave the offices as the servers in most BEOs were down. Though the situation improved marginally on Thursday, parents were left disappointed yet again. The sluggish pace of the process tested their patience and left many at their wit’s end. 
 
 Shivamma, a daily-wage labourer, who wasted a day’s leave on Wednesday, visited the Yelahanka BEO again to get her son’s application processed. “I have lost out on two days’ salary. I hope unlike yesterday, I return home with a school’s name,” she said.
 
 With the school list not being updated, the office faced another glitch on Thursday. “When the webpage with the school list opened, some names were missing from it. We have alerted the education department,” said AR Srinivas, BEO.
 
 Confusion marred the process at Shankarpura too, where the systems operator was unaware about compressing the file size of the caste and birth certificates provided by parents. Only after multiple attempt to upload the certificates could he succeed. N Venkatesh, “It is only the second day and such shortcomings are expected. We are hopeful of smooth submissions in the coming weeks.”
 
 At BTM Layout, ice-cream vendors made hay as anxious parents waited outside the BEO, braving the heat. Even here, the servers continued to be down. “I am ready to work extra to ensure that all applications are accepted at the earliest,” said K L Rameshiah, BEO.
 
 While some ran out of patience, Mulai Kudi, a tailor and mother of two children aged 6 and 4, wasn’t complaining. She said, “I am not literate myself and didn’t know about RTE. My neighbour enlightened me and I immediately got the Aadhaar enrolment done. Though the long wait is eating into my working hours, I know it’ll be good for kids in the long run”.
 
 However, some of the parents who applied on their own met with success as the servers picked up pace by afternoon. “I applied for my domestic help’s children, and the applications were successfully uploaded on to the system,” said  , a resident of Jayanagar. 
 
