NEW DELHI: That minister   is fiercely nationalist was evident in the manner in which she dealt with   for carrying doormats featuring the Indian tricolour. Now, she's provided further evidence of her nationalism by choosing to respond to a tweet that accused her of being biased toward Muslims.

 A   user recently posted on Prime Minister  's and external affairs minister Swaraj's accounts that the latter only helps Muslims with visa troubles.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Swaraj, who's always forthright, chose to reply to the tweet to set the record straight.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The minister, who's been commended in India and abroad for her very effective use of social media, is indeed very active on Twitter.
 
 Since she took office, Swaraj has tirelessly not just responded to tweets seeking help, she has actually taken prompt action to ensure people's problems are solved. No problem is seen as too small or too big for her attention. And she's even worked for the public while ailing and from a hospital room.
 
 The external affairs minister has helped both Indians and non-Indians. Some months ago, she commiserated with a British couple who were having trouble getting their daughter - born of surrogacy - a British passport. Most notably, she was instrumental in coming to the rescue of 10,000 migrant workers who were going hungry in the   after either being laid off or because their salaries were withheld.
 
  It is in fact the Gulf episode that Foreign Policy magazine took special note of when naming Swaraj one of 15 'Global Thinkers' of 2016. She was commended by the magazine "for fashioning a novel brand of Twitter diplomacy."
 
 Earlier this month, the Union minister threatened to refuse visas to   officials and withdraw visas already given to Amazon employees in India, if the global e-tailer did not stop selling doormats with the Indian flag on them.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Amazon then withdrew the doormats and later even pulled out flip-flops bearing the picture of Gandhi on them.
 
 
 
 
