Nagpur: Coming down heavily on two accused for “misusing” liberty granted to them, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) cancelled their bail and directed the Gondia police to place them behind bars immediately.

 Petitioners Rohit Tiwari and Zulfekar Jabbar Gani were accused of brutally killing Dharam Dawane of Gondia along with several of their accomplices by using deadly weapons and firearms on October 2012. Both were later released on bail in July 2015 and September 2015 by the high court.
 
 “In my view, Tiwari misused the liberty granted to him by this court while releasing him on bail,” justice Vinay Deshpande said.
 
 He pointed out that Gani breached the conditions imposed on him by this court. “Not only that, after he was released on bail, he misused the liberty granted to him by indulging into other serious crimes,” the judge said.
 
 “This shows that both accused have scant respect to the orders passed by this court. Also, they’re not law abiding citizens in whose favour any discretion should be exercised,” the court held.
 
 Both the accused were told to regularly attend the Ram Nagar Police station in Gondia on specified dates and also refrain from indulging in further criminal activities.
 
 The court’s crackdown came while hearing two petitions from victim’s brother Rajendra Dawane through counsel Akash Gupta filed under Section 439 (2) of Criminal Procedure code (CrPC) for cancellation of bail. He pointed out that both the accused blatantly flouted the conditions imposed on them while granting them bail.
 
 While Tiwari attended the police station intermittently, he remained absent for almost an entire year between July 2015 and May 2016. Similarly, Gani was directed to attend the police station on 68 occasions. However, he attended only on 13 occasions during the relevant period.
 
 Gupta contended that the accused not only disregarded the orders of attendance, but also indulged in serious crimes after being released on bail. Gani was behind bars in Bhandara when he received the court’s notice on this plea, which clearly indicated that he is a hardened criminal.
 
 He pointed out that serious offences of attempt to murder were registered against Gani, while those of extortion and cheating were against Tiwari, after both were released on bail by the high court.
 
 “Since both applicants flouted the orders and have not complied with the conditions imposed on them while getting bail, it’s a fit case where this court should exercise its powers under Section 439 (2) of CrPC,” the judge ruled before cancelling their bail pleas.
 
 (With inputs from 
 
 Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
 
