A family entertainer is built around humour, emotions, relationships, romance and a story that can weave these elements together. Director Anees Bazmee’s ' ' mixes all these ingredients with a pleasing score and some promising performances. Here’s what could make the film worth a watch this Friday: 

 
 
 He is the coolest bachelor in town. Kartar Singh, a British-Asian residing in the UK, is a typical Punjabi who is attached to his Indian roots. He has even created a mini Punjab in London. Though he loves to make others laugh and has a clean heart, he often lands himself and others in messy situations.
 
 
 The actor-director jodi completes a record of 10 films together with this venture. However, they treated the haha-ride almost like their first collaboration. Anees’ career is punctuated with hits and Anil has been part of most of them.
 
 
 Ileana D’Cruz has impressed her fans in the songs, 'Hawa Hawa', 'Mubarakan' and 'Goggle Paake'. The actress, who is paired opposite  , has collaborated with Anil for the first time. She admittedly learnt a great deal from the senior actor. She also found a great friend in her co-star  . Ileana plays Sweety from Punjab, while Athiya plays Binkle, a Londoner who is an Indian at heart. 
 
 
 Unlike other double-role movies, Mubarakan neither thrives on identity crisis nor do the two characters meet only at crucial junctures. For the first time, the twins, played by Arjun, will share 60 minutes of screen time. Arjun ensured that Karan and Charan look like two distinct personalities on the big screen.
 
 
 Stellar performers Pavan Malhotra and Ratna Pathak Shah play siblings Baldev and Jeeto, who complete the 'Mubarakan' family. Baldev lives by his sister’s words and her honour is of prime importance to him. His personality reflects the innocence reminiscent of simple, small-town men. Rahul Dev and Karan Kundra also play pivotal roles in this 
 . 'Mubarakan', produced by Sony Pictures Networks Productions and Murad Khetani and Ashwin Varde of Cine1 Studios, releases on July 28.
 
