HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad may have raced ahead of other metros, scoring 22nd rank in   results, but its poor show in some parametres, especially   (ODF) town, trashed its dreams of emerging as squeaky clean city in the country. 

 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) sources said the civic body lost marks in the municipal documentation segment, which includes ODF, bagging 733 of 900. GHMC could declare only 112 municipal wards of the total 150 as open defecation free.
 
 "There was a gap in receiving applications for as well as verification and construction of community and public toilets in the city. For instance, in the construction of community and public toilets, performance was 50% less than the target," said a senior GHMC official.
 
 Civic officials blamed slums for open defecation menace. "There are 1,400 slums in the city. The problem is worse in slums abutting railway tracks. We are struggling to find open land to construct community toilets."
 
 GHMC also lost 25 marks in disposal of construction and demolition waste and about 35 marks on the vehicle tracking system for garbage vehicles.
 
 When it comes to the Citizen's Feedback and Swachhata App category, the civic body scored 443 of 600 marks (276 marks alone from citizen's feedback) and 428 marks of 500 in direct observation by Swachh inspection teams. Vizag scored higher at 486 marks out of 500 in Direct Observation category.
 
 However, GHMC officials pointed out that in the citizen feedback category, the city fared very well with 276 marks as against the highest scorer Chandigarh with 379.
 
 The results notwithstanding, GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy said: "We are happy with the performance of the corporation as we topped among metro cities in the country."He claimed had GHMC not lost about 150 marks in ODF category, it would have been in top 10 bracket.
 
 "We have identified issues like disposal of demolition waste, vehicle tracking system and segregation of waste. By the next survey, GHMC will be unstoppable."
 
 The commissioner also blamed the "faulty system of ranking" that makes an apple and orange comparison by adopting uniform parametres for all civic bodies.
 
 "I have written to ministry of urban development in November 2016, requesting it to categorize civic bodies into small, medium and big cities. There is a huge difference between small and metros in terms of population and garbage generation. For instance, Mysuru's population is about 8 lakh and garbage generation is about 100 MT. The comparison should be between comparable cities," said Janardhan Reddy.
 
