THANE: Uncertainty over the fate of alliances and lack of any constructive ideas to offer is probably holding back political parties from coming out with their manifestos in the lake city .

 Though just a fortnight is left for the Thane Municipal, Corporation ( ) election, major political parties in the lake city , except the  , are yet to release their manifestos, forcing their candidates to reach out to voters with individual programs as they started their campaigning on Sunday .
 
 A manifesto gives the voter a clear idea about the vision and the direction of the party on how it wants to develop the city in the next five years of its tenure.
 
 However, over the year, parties have apparently reduced it to a mere formality with barely anything new to offer and often declaring it at the last minute.
 
 Further, experts lament that parties, of late, seem to be designing manifestos based on what their rival camps have offered or rather has left out from their manifesto.
 
 “Candidates of any political party should ideally have a common vision programme for the city , as they start reaching out to voters to maintain uniformity . Of late, parties seemed to have become causal about the same with mani festos being released at the last minute with barely any thought given to the city and its dynamics where they intend to reach out,“ says Dr Mridul Nile, head of department, political science at Mumbai University .
 
 In thane, political parties, spare for the exception of Shiv Sena, have not yet formally announced their manifestos for the municipal election despite the same scheduled barely a fortnight later. Insiders say the indecision over alliances till the last minute is probably the reason for this and the same should be ready in coming days.
 
 The BJP, which is aiming for an increased tally in the TMC house, says it is working on its manifesto and it could be released in a day or two.“We are ready with our agenda, but will fine-tune it over the next few days before presenting it before voters.Along with development aspects, we are planning to inform how the BJP-led state government has worked towards creating a smart city here,“ said a senior party functionary .
 
 NCP, the second largest party in the city after Shiv Sena, said it will release its manifesto towards the fag end of campaigning. “We are ready with our materials and will release it probably next week,“ said a senior leader.
 
 Congress, meanwhile, has plans to release its poll charter only after thrashing out the seat-sharing arrangement, which would be most likely post Tuesday .
 
 However, experts have trashed the reasons and said the exercise is nothing but an attempt to mislead residents.
 
 “The manifestos don't seem to have any relevance these days as parties have nothing to offer to the city. Those who have released manifestos haven't offered anything new. It's more of a repeat of what was planned ages back for the city .
 
 “It is time for the public to raise questions over these unkept poll promises,“ said political observer and senior journalist  .
 
