Guwahati: In a surprise turnaround, the state has registered a higher collection of commercial   in December, 2016 than that for the same period in 2015. The state had, in fact, anticipated a loss in tax collection as a fallout of demonetisation.

 “In December, 2016 we have collected Rs 875.6 crore in commercial taxes. This is a positive growth of 21% over the preceding year. Feeling extremely happy,” state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. In December, 2015, the collection stood at Rs 718.83 crore, the minister added.
 
 This comes as a pleasant surprise for the state, which had been gearing up for losses. 
 
 The first apex committee meeting of Restructuring Systems and Technology to Augment Resources for Transformed Assam (ReSTART Assam), held recently, had braced itself for losses of about Rs 1,000 crore till March, 2017 as a result of demonetisation. Sales of goods had been expected to go down by 20%, affecting   collection. The state, heavily reliant on central assistance, derives its revenue mainly from commercial taxes, state excise duty, motor vehicle tax, land revenue, stamp duty and registration, and royalties. The impact, therefore, was expected to be huge. The government had expected an additional loss of about Rs 100 crore in the current financial year because of lower excise revenue and a loss of about 10-12% in transport department revenue. 
 
 Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had asked the tax department to come up with all possible measures to make up for this anticipated loss.
 
 The first optimistic indicator came last month when Himanta said at a pre-budget meeting that the state’s revenue collection had increased by 14% this year compared to the previous year.
 
 A source said the commercial tax department is in the process of streamlining its functioning to ensure timely tax collection and reduce compliance cost — a new software system is being adopted and the National Institute of Smart Governance has already been engaged to prepare a DPR for the new software under a World Bank-assisted initiative.
 
 
