Almost half a century before what is known as the first Indian war of independence or the revolt of 1857 began, there was an uprising in the South. Led by the   or ‘Polygars’ — the rulers of small independent provinces — the uprising, known as  , saw revolts against the British East India Company in several places of the erstwhile Madras Presidency. 

 There have been views that the uprising was the first concerted effort for independence from the British. Though historians have varied views on this, ‘1801’, a recently released novel by M Rajendran IAS claims that the polygar uprising of   was well organised with the coordination of forces from Pune to Nanguneri. Though many historians say the pre-Congress revolts were largely provincial, ‘1801’ shows the Tamil Palayakarars were able to link-up with other rebels, cutting across regions.
 
 Rajendran says evidence found after years of research held that Chinna Marudu, a minister of the Palayakarar of Sivaganga, was instrumental in organising the uprising of 1801. He also united rebels across Madras Presidency. He released what is known as the first ever proclamation of independence against the British — a bill which was stuck on the wall of Ranganathaswamy temple in Sri Rangam. 
 
 Rajendran says the revolt of 1857 is well known because it happened near Delhi. "The 1857 revolt was a regimental uprising. Uniform-clad sepoys revolted against their employers. But the uprising of 1801 was a concerted revolt by independent kings." 
 
 The novel describes the events starting from 1800 which led to the war in the Kalayar Kovil forests. It culminates with the hanging of rebel leaders like Marudu Pandiyars of Sivaganga and Oomaithurai and Sivathaiyya of Panchalankurichi. Seventy eight rebels were deported to Sumatra and Malaysia. "This was the first instance in Indian history where rebels were deported to a foreign country," says Rajendran. 
 
 Dr K Rajayyan, former head of the department of history at   and the first academic to carry out research on the Palayakarar uprising, says the chronology, character and composition of the revolt prove that it was the first significant war against the British. "The 1801 uprising was a common people’s uprising and Marudu Pandiyar were their leaders. We can see this uprising culminating in the Vellore Mutiny," says Rajayyan. 
 
 Stressing that the Indian government should recognize the 1801 uprising as the first war of independence, Rajayyan says when he wrote to the   (ICHR) in this regard, they replied that they have stopped referring to the 1857 revolt as the first war of independence. 
 
 The 1801 uprising also paved the way for the East India Company to bring the southern provinces under their complete control. The company restricted the possession of arms by rulers and general public — a reason that could have kept southern provinces from participating in the 1857 revolt. 
 
 There are, of course, views which differ. Historian Ramachandra Guha observes that there have been popular rebellions against colonial rule even before the 1801 uprising including the Fakir and Sannyasi rebellion in Bengal in the 1770s. The revolt of 1857 had a much wider scope geographically than the 1801 uprising, he says. "The Palayakarar uprising of 1801 can certainly be called a significant anti-colonial rebellion, but it was by no means a war of independence," says Guha. He stresses that none of the rebellions that happened in colonial India, including the revolt of 1857, can be called the first war of independence, as these did not have a clear idea of freedom for the whole of India. 
 
 "The first conception of a nation-wide freedom struggle came only in the early 20th century, as manifest especially by the Indian National Congress led by Tilak and Gandhi, but also expressed by revolutionary groups. These nationalist struggles also had a significant impact in TN," Guha adds. 
 
 
