HUBBALI: Over 12 leopards have been spotted in and around the   recently, creating concern among  .

 While there has been no report of attack on human beings, these leopards have killed cattle, buffalo and sheep in the villages surrounding Hampi. Tourists are now extra-cautious while visiting some spots, fearing attack by leopards. The forest department is said to be helpless in catching these leopards due to opposition from wildlife activists.
 
 Prakashgouda, a resident of Kaddirampur, said that many leopards have been spotted around his village. “Due to the fear of leopards, labourers are refusing to work in agricultural fields,” he said.
 
 Manjula Nayak, a resident of Shriram Nagar near Hampi, said that leopards have attacked her two buffaloes in the past eight months. “When I informed the forest department, they caught a leopard and shifted it to another place. But the leopards have reappeared in our area,” said Manjula.
 
 Mohan Kumar Sambrani, a tourist from Belagavi, said that leopards stray into Hampi due to the presence of hills in the area. “Moreover, the forest department needs to take necessary measures in this regard,” he opined.
 
 S S Rachayya, a photo-journalist, said that leopards roamed freely at   many a times recently and a few are residing nearby hills like Kaddirampur, MP Prakash Nagar, Shrirama Nagar, behind Malyavantha Hill and Hanumapad Hill. “As these areas are not frequented by human beings, leopards are wandering here freely. I have taken many photos at Akka-Tangi rock where leopards take rest at atop the hill and it was very near to me,” he said.
 
 He observed that the geological condition in Hampi is conducive for leopards. “They never attack human beings unnecessarily. They wander in the hills for food and water and attack cases have been registered only on livestock,” he said.
 
 M Nagaraj Sirigeri, regional forest officer, echoed Rachayya’s opinion. “Because of this supportive ecosystem, the number of leopards is increasing. Acting on public complaints, we have been conducting combing operation to catch them. We had shifted four leopards last year. But they are coming to drink water at Tungabhadra bank in the summer,” he said.
 
 He also assured to take necessary actions to ensure the safety of tourists. “The public should also cooperate with us in this regard,” he appealed.
 
 “There is no need to comb the area as leopards won’t attack human beings. They attack only when people trouble them. People should respect leopards’ or any animal’s privacy and right to live. Leopards stray into the Hampi region for food and water,” said Shivashankar Banakar, a wildlife photographer from Hosapete.
 
