KENDRAPADA: The flood situation in Kendrapada worsened on Sunday after the Bramahani breached its embankment at Nilakanthapur in Pattamundai block, and at Eradanga in Aul block.

 Three persons -Kusa Pradhan of Khairadiha village, Sonu Dalai Badasulidiha and Ranjit Mallick of Makeipur village - of Jajpur district drowned, a statement issued by the Special Relief Commissioner's office said. A woman Shiva devotee also drowned in the Budhabalanga while drawing water from the river to pour on Lord Panchalingeswar. The incident took place at 12pm in Balighat on the outskirts of Balasore town. She was identified as  , 32, of Shreekona village under Chandipur police limits. 
 
 Another person, Amit Ranjan Ray of Nilakanthapur gram panchayat of Kendrapara district, has been reported missing.
 
 "The Bramahani is flowing over the danger mark at Alava under Pattamundai block. Fourteen vulnerable points have been identified along the river bank. Of these, 12 are highly vulnerable to being breached. Senior engineers and experts, along with police, have been sent there to keep vigil. We have deployed 292 private and 50 government boats to rescue the marooned," said Rajanikanta Mohanty, district emergency officer of Kendrapada.
 
 The 10km main road from Aul to Pattamundai has been cut off after floodwaters inundated it. Flash floods have wreaked havoc in Aul, Pattamundai and Rajkanika blocks of the district, and Bari, Korei, Rasulpur, Danagadi and Dharmasala blocks of Jajpur district. Floods have cut off several riverside villages by destroying link roads. 
 
 The main road from Marthapur to Jakadia under Danagadi block has been cut off after floodwaters inundated two ageing bridges. Korei MLA Akash Das Nayak visited the affected areas on Sunday.
 
 The floodwaters have also affected traffic on the main road from Chandabali to Kendrapada, especially at Aul and Rajkanika. The release of water from the Rengali dam and incessant rain in the catchment areas have made matters worse, causing the Bramahani, Kharosotra and their tributaries to swell further and inundate riverside villages.
 
 Bari block of Jajpur district remained the worst-hit with more than one lakh people being affected. The only mode of transport working is boats. Floods have damaged standing paddy crops in both districts and the fate of a large number of farmers hangs in balance."We have lost our crop. How will we return our bank loan?" wondered Mahadev Behera of Kimbhiripala village under Bari block. 
 
 Floods have also damaged large tracts of green gram, black gram, and vegetables farms across both districts.
 
 When contacted, Rajalaxmi Nayak the district emergency officer of Jajpur, said, "Around 112 villages of 52 gram panchayats of the district have been marooned. We are running free kitchens in the affected villages."
 
