NEW DELHI: An Aam Aadmi Party delegation, led by deputy chief minister  , met the State Election Commissioner of Delhi on Monday and submitted a memorandum opposing use of electronic voting machines (EVMs) from Rajashtan in the corporation elections in Delhi. 

 Earlier in the day, sharpening his attack on the election commission, chief minister   alleged that the commission “has found several faults in EVMs during a bypoll conducted at Dholpur, Rajasthan, yesterday (Sunday). Eighteen EVMs were registering votes only for BJP, which means that like the Bhind bypoll EVM, these machines have also been tampered with. Their software programming has been changed by someone to ensure votes only for BJP. The election commission is unwilling to even investigate the cause of this manipulation”. 
 
 According to the AAP memorandum, “an alarming situation has arisen in respect of the upcoming elections to the corporations in Delhi, scheduled for April 23...It is pertinent to point out that these 18 machines constituted nearly 10% of the total number of machines being used for the polls in Dholpur”.
 
 Sisodia said, “It is alarming to note that this is the second such instance in 2017 itself, and the fourth in the past two years, that EVMs were found to have been deliberately tampered with to cast votes only for BJP”. AAP is concerned that EVMs may be tampered with at a hardware/software level, which may not be identifiable except by experts with technical knowledge and skill, he added.
 
 He went on to allege that AAP is shocked as it has “reliably learnt that SEC has ordered that Generation-1 EVMs be imported from Rajasthan for use in the upcoming elections to the municipal corporations in Delhi”. 
 
 AAP has demanded that SEC “explain and justify why Generation 1 EVMs, which are known as being more susceptible to tampering, are proposed to be used for the Delhi municipal elections, especially when sufficient numbers of Generation 2 EVMs are already available in Delhi itself for the said purpose”. The memorandum asserted that “in order to preserve the constitutional guarantee of free and fair elections, we will not let these EVMs to be used”. 
 
 AAP’s national convener, Kejriwal, also said Delhi had sufficient EVMs of its own. “Fifteen thousand EVMs in Delhi are going to be used while 5,000 ballot units and 8,000 control units are being brought in from Rajasthan. They have found a ruse to ask for machines from Rajasthan,” Kejriwal alleged. 
 
 
