CHANDRAPUR: A teenage girl almost lost her life after she received four deep cuts on her throat inflicted upon by a sharp coated manja, on Tuesday evening.

 Sapna Sonakar (18) was fortunate to get timely medical help which saved her life. Social and wildlife activists are already crying foul over the inaction on part of the police and civic administration against coated and Chinese manja in the city.
 
 Sapna, a resident of Mahakali collieries, is a first year graduation student and aspires to join the police force. She was heading for her routine pre-recruitment exercise on her moped in the evening, when a sharp manja got entangled in her neck all of a sudden near Jaishreya Club on bypass road.
 
 As she tried free her neck, the manja yanked by the kite flyer inflicted four deep cuts on her throat within a few seconds.
 
 “Blood was gushing out from my slashed throat and my entire dress got soaked in it. I started feeling dizzy due to loss of blood, when onlookers rushed to my rescue. Among onlookers was a friend of my brother, who immediately called my home from my cell phone and summoned by parents,” Sapna said.
 
 She claimed that a youth was flying the kite across the state highway and the manja got entangled in her neck when the kite suddenly plunged.
 
 Sapna was immediately rushed to surgeon Dr Ashok Bhukte, who in turn referred her to ENT surgeon Dr Manish Mudhada.
 
 “It was a close shave. There are four critical cuts on her throat. However, the blood flow had stopped as Sapna smartly wrapped her scarf around her wound immediately. The wounds are long from one ear to the other and very close to the jugular vein. But had the jugular vein severed, she would have died of excessive bleeding,” Dr Mundhada told TOI.
 
 He added that Sapna is now out of danger.
 
 Dr Gopal Mundhada, president of social organisation  , strongly criticized the municipal administration and police for taking no action against illegal manja being sold in the city.
 
 “Manja is openly available in the market, but the civic administration and police have taken no action so far. Sapna had a close shave, but others might not be so fortunate,” he said.
 
 Avian activists too are demanding action against coated manja following rising incidents of bird injuries due to kite flying.
 
