NAGPUR: Following outcry by activists over alleged animal cruelty in Akola, its municipal corporation has stopped   in the city. 

 The civic body, which apparently is yet to start implementing Animal Birth Control (Dog) Rules, 2000, is also in talks with animal welfare organizations to initiate the process. Activists from Nagpur have filed a complaint with higher-ups. 
 
 Last week, shocking pictures showing bleeding dogs being dragged on the road with metal hooks inserted in their neck went viral on various social media platforms. A local, through a Facebook post alleged that   was behind the act but the claim was denied by the civic chief.
 
 Akola municipal commissioner Ajay Lahane, who had earlier admitted of dogcatchers being ‘untrained’, said that the process has been stopped completely. “The corporation has financial limitations and thus we are contacting NGOs for their support. ABC is a new concept for us and I am personally researching on the subject,”   added. 
 
 Locals said that dogs were caught and released outside city limits — a process that did not prove much of a help in controlling stray population.
 
 As per 2014’s media reports, Akola circle had reported 61,615 dog-bite cases in 2013-14. Of them, 8,250 patients had to be hospitalized. On the uncontrolled stray population in Akola, Lahane said, “We have 15,000 stray pigs and about the same number of dogs. Wet waste is the main cause of increasing menace.”
 
 Out of the 200 tonnes of solid waste generated per day in the city, 60% is reportedly wet waste. “We are also focusing on scientific disposal of waste. Once wet waste is taken care of, the problem of strays will start reducing,” Lahane said.
 
 A group of locals strongly suspected that dogs were being killed by pig breeders, as they would attack piglets. Nagpur-based NGO Save Speechless Organisation ( ) has stepped in the matter and has lodged complaint with the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and state animal husbandry minister  . 
 
 “Since it is still not clear who is behind the cruelty and the number of dogs that have been injured or culled, we have demanded an in-depth investigation,” said SSO founder Smita Mire.
 
