Nagpur: Following TOI report, the Nagpur University (NU) has convened a meeting of Master Social Work (MSW) teachers and special task committee to resolve the issue of repetition of a topic in third semester syllabus.

 Though colleges and students had written to the NU, their pleas had gone unheeded. Earlier, Vice chancellor SP Kane had pleaded ignorance about receiving any letter on the blunder when TOI had sought his comments.
 
 On September 10, TOI had reported that the Nagpur University (NU) and its students faced the risk of getting blacklisted abroad following the blunder.
 
 On Friday, Pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole held a meeting with special task committee members Anil Dhage, Keshav Patil and another faculty members from Wardha. Matru Sewa Sangh principal John Menacherry, who had written to the VC and registrar Puran Meshram, too were present in the meeting.
 
 Menacherry said he was happy that the issue has been taken up by the university and hoped that the mistake would be soon rectified.
 
 Yeole was apparently upset with the committee as the blunder was not brought to his notice when the syllabus was prepared.
 
 Another meeting on the issue was scheduled for Monday since the committee coordinator being out of town was absent.
 
 On Monday, the Pro-VC is likely to fix responsibility and set aside the existing syllabus. After this, a revised syllabus would be notified.
 
 In the syllabus of third semester, the sub-topics for the subjects ‘Medical and Psychiatric Social Work Practice’ and ‘Medical Social Work’ have been repeated with contents matching word for word in the specialization papers I and III. The groups of both papers have different numbers, the title are also more or less the same. Not just all the three sub-topics, even the case studies like SEARCH, Anandwan, Lok Biradari etc are same for the MSW third semester students.
 
 MSW students say that those opting the specialization generally pursue further studies from countries like UK, US and Canada where transcripts have to be submitted. The transcripts carry all the details about the course including the syllabus. If the mistake is not rectified, the foreign universities will blacklist students from NU in future.
 
 
