MYSURU: Each day, Puttaswamappa of Milajipura,   taluk, watches helplessly as his three cows grow thinner and frail. Despair writ large on his face, the 65-year-old farmer casts a forlorn glance in the direction of his haystack, shrinking in size at the corner of his farm.

 “I’m old, and no one will employ me as a daily wage labourer. I am worried if the   I have will last till June. Life will become difficult if I don’t get enough money from selling  ,” says Puttaswamappa, extending a fistful of fodder to his  . He owns four acres, but drought has brought farming activity in the region to a standstill.
 
 The decline in the yield of milk from his cows – the cumulative yield has come down from 15 litres to 10 – has only compounded his woes. 
 
 The predicament that Puttaswamappa is grappling is a common thread in the overarching narrative of drought in the region. For the past month, procurement of milk in   in   and Chamarajanagar taluk in Chamarajanagar district has steadily been going down. If farmers don’t get fodder, the yield is likely to decrease further.
 
 According to sources, nearly 80% of the farming community in the region relies on revenue from milk for sustenance in the summer. Reeling under drought, paucity of fodder has now pushed farmers to the wall.
 
 The state government has opened fodder banks, but the farmers have to surmount logistical and bureaucratic hurdles to avail of it. Dairy farmers in Milajipura have to go to Chamarajanagar, which is 12km away, in addition to having to produce documents.
 
 “I have to pay Rs 600 to transport fodder by auto. I don’t have the money to spend on transport,” says Putaswamappa.
 
 The farmers subsist on the money they derive from selling milk to the Mysore District Co-operative Milk Producers Societies Union (Mymul). They get Rs 30 per litre, money that is deposited in a bank.
 
 However, the payment is made either once a week or in 10 days. “This isn’t sufficient, and people like me go to Mysuru daily in search of a job,” said Prabhuswamy, a resident of Milajipura.
 
 That explains the early morning rush at Badanaguppe Railway Station, 2km from Milajipura, where villagers can be seen waiting for trains bound for Mysuru. “We can earn from Rs 400 to Rs 500 daily. But there are days when we end up getting no work,” Prabhuswamy added.
 
 Sources at Mymul confirmed to TOI that there had been a 10% fall in milk procurement from Nanjangud and Chamarajanagar taluks. “Against the regular quantum of 6.50 lakh litres daily, procurement has come down to 5.90 lakh litres. But procurement in neighbouring taluks such as Periyapatna has not dropped through,” sources said.
 
 At Dasanur, in chief minister Siddaramaiah’s Varuna constituency, people have been forced to sell cattle to tide over the troubled times. It was with a heavy heart that Basavaraju, 37, sold his two cows, which had been an integral part of his family.
 
 “But I was left with no option. I’ve no fodder to give them,” he said. Although each cow could have fetched him Rs 40,000, he sold them for Rs 25,000 each. “I sold them to milk producers in Kollegal, Chamarajanagar. They are healthy, and will help him earn money for the next ten years,” he added.
 
 First time milk production has dipped in 5 years
 
  There has been a decrease in milk production. But we are providing fodder to farmers through milk cooperative societies. This is the first time in five years that production has come down. We have hiked the price to be paid to the farmers per litre of milk by Rs 3.
 
 - Mallikarjun | Manager (Procurement), Mymul
 
