My interaction with Justice   was mainly after her retirement and therefore it was a   Since I came to   only after she had retired, I do recollect interacting with her after 1992.

 The outstanding judge shone even more after leaving office, when she spoke fearlessly but with great compassion on a range of issues.
 
 She was one of those rare persons who even after retirement continued to play a very important role in public life. Her greatest contribution is the searing article she wrote after the Supreme Court overturned the Naaz judgement of Delhi High Court which had decriminalised consensual homosexual relationship. She said SC has abdicated its duties by throwing the ball in Parliament, and staunchly defended the rights of the LGBT community. The article she wrote highlighted how her own son had become an “unapprehended felon” in the eyes of law due to the SC ruling. It is indeed admirable for a retired chief justice of a high court to be critical of the SC and speak her mind.
 
 I have fond memories of working with Justice Seth in the Sunanda Bhandare Foundation, set up in the memory of another famous HC judge who died while in office. I was close to late Sunanda and her husband and she was an integral part of the Foundation. In that capacity also I got to interact with her and saw her deep concern for women. Her son Vikram Seth is deeply committed to our organisation Lawyers Collective which argued the Naaz Foundation case. He was one of the first signatories to the petition.
 
 My third interaction with Justice Seth was when I made the opening statement before the Justice J S Verma Committee set up afterthe Nirbhaya case to strengthen India’s anti-rape laws.
 
 I found her Justice Seth very active and responsive. She kept asking questions on each section that was being taken up. In my view if there is any legacy she left it is the legacy that women can be great judges and chief justices. The fact remains that today in the Supreme Court there is only one woman judge and the senior most judge in the country in high courts is a chief justice who is a woman. Yet, we have no explanation why women are not being appointed to SC despite vacancies. We can celebrate the fact that we have four women judges leading four important high courts but why are they not being elevated?
 
 (As told to Abhinav Garg) 
 
 
