Imphal: The Centre might be considering an intervention in the state to end the economic blockade by invoking Article   and taking control of the national highways, Imphal-Dimapur and Imphal-Silchar roads, which have been under siege since November 1 last year.

 Article 355 of the Constitution enlists the “duty of the Union to protect states against external aggression and internal disturbance”. The move would seek to “stabilize” the situation in Imphal Valley, which has 40 of the 60 assembly seats going to the   on March 4 and 8, sources said. Once the situation is stabilized, the saffron party could go for an all-out campaign against Ibobi Singh’s policies and brand him as an ineffective leader, who could not lift the blockade, sources added.
 
 This comes in the backdrop of a series of meetings of Manipur civil society groups and the chief ministers of Manipur and Nagaland with Union home minister Rajnath Singh.
 
 A delegation representing over 60 civil society groups of the state met Rajnath on Thursday, seeking his intervention in the ongoing blockade which has paralysed life in the hills as well as the valley. They also submitted a report highlighting the communal tension over the blockade, which had been launched by the United Naga Council (UNC) in protest against the creation of new districts in the state.
 
 The home minister assured the delegation that the Centre is already working on a plan to remove the blockade by sending adequate security forces to the state. The Centre will also talk to the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) about lifting the blockade, he added. The Naga rebel outfit is said to have close links with the UNC and is currently engaged in peace talks with the Centre.
 
 A day earlier, the home minister had met chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh and warned him that the Centre would have to explore “other constitutional measures” if the Congress government failed in its constitutional duties. Rajnath blamed the state government for its “failure” to remove the blockade despite additional companies of central paramilitary forces being provided as requested.
 
 The home minister had also met Nagaland chief minister T R Zeliang on Thursday and asked him to ensure that the portion of NH-39 (Imphal-Dimapur Road) inside Nagaland remains trouble-free. He also asked Zeliang not to allow the present crisis to spill over to Nagaland.
 
 Sources said the Centre is unhappy with Ibobi’s approach to the crisis but the central BJP leadership is against the imposition of President’s Rule in the state as it fears that any such move could give Congress an electoral advantage.
 
 Union HRD minister Prakash Jadavekar, who is also the party in charge for Manipur polls, had earlier blamed Ibobi Singh of using the blockade as a “political tool”.
 
 
