MUMABI: All   (Kaali Peelis and aggregator/fleet cabs) Greater Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar and Kalyan will have to install   to restrict themselves to 80kmph. 

 The state transport commissioner’s office on Thursday issued a circular to RTOs directing them not to give clearances to any taxi undergoing the annual fitness test unless it has installed a speed governor. Around 300 Kaali Peeli taxis were turned away on Thursday because the required equipment were not installed. Taxi unions now plan to move the Bombay high court against the order.
 
 Union leader A L Quadros has threatened an indefinite agitation from Saturday. “We will take a delegation to the transport commissioner’s office on Friday, and if the rule is not revoked, we will agitate on the streets,” he said.
 
 A senior transport commissioner office official told TOI the governors became mandatory after a recent amendment to the Central Motor Vehicle Rules. 
 
 In October 2015, the road transport ministry had exempted taxis from installing speed governors. All other vehicles had to comply with the rule. But the Karnataka high court in February 2016 had held the exemptions to be illegal. To comply with the court order, the ministry came out with the fresh notification on May 3, removing exemptions for taxis and asking them to fix speed governors, which will have a pre-fitted maximum speed of 80kmph. 
 
 While unions argued that installation of speed governors should be approved by agencies such as Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) in  , officials said they were implementing a Central rule. 
 
 Transport experts said the speed governors were justified, considering that nearly 42% accidents in the state were due to speeding by commercial vehicles. On the  , for instance, taxis speed past 80kmph, an official added.
 
 Cabbies, however, argued that their cars cannot over-speed given the slow pace at which traffic moves in the city. Drivers attached to fleet cabs like Meru and TabCab said many were already observing the speed rule. Besides, they said the speed governor would cost in the region of Rs 10,000-15,000.
 
 (With inputs from Dipak Dash in Delhi)
 
