PUDUCHERRY: Former   MP M Ramadass has urged the   to introduce courses on Goods and   ( ) management from the current academic year. He has asked for the course to produce adequate skilled manpower to assist small and big companies in adopting to the new taxation policy, besides managing, upgrading and complying with the policy.

 In a memorandum to the university’s VC (in-charge) Anisa B Khan, Ramadass said Pondicherry University with its expertise in management, commerce, economics and computer science is the most appropriate institution to launch the innovative postgraduate diploma (one year) and diploma (six months) programmes in GST management through its community college. The university can also permit its affiliated colleges to replicate such programmes.
 
 Ramadass, a former director of Pondicherry University, urged the university to constitute a board of studies consisting experts from the departments of commercial taxes, service taxes and excise of Puducherry government and evolve the course structure, syllabi, theoretical and practical orientation of the course.
 
 He said presently there was a dearth in human resources directly matching the GST requirement in the country. He said the success of the new tax regime will depend on error-free migration of trading and business community. “Trading and business community must be familiar with the guidelines and provisions of the GST Act, its concepts, registration, returns, accounts and records, invoice, billing, input tax credit, penalties and appeals, payments and refunds among others,” he said.
 
 He said businessmen and service providers in small, micro and tiny sectors do not possess the required knowledge on the new tax regime. The commercial taxes department has been extending its valuable service to trading and business community to overcome the problems, he added. “However, in the longer run, this service will not be available on a sustainable basis and the mid and small-sized companies will outsource this service or hire professionals,” Ramadass added.
 
 
