KOLHAPUR: Within three days of its inauguration, the state’s first   office operating from the post office at   has been flooded with applications. Officials said appointments for issuance of passports are completely booked till April 26.

 To begin with, the post office passport seva kendra (POPSK) is clearing 50 appointments every day and the number is expected to be gradually increased. Over the past three days, 150 applications for passports have been cleared. Applicants have been queuing up at the POPSK since March 25, when the office was inaugurated. 
 
 Anjali Pujari, who was at the passport office on Wednesday, said the new passport office had saved both time and money. “Earlier, we did not have any option other than travelling to Pune for getting a passport. It is a good thing that the office has started in Kolhapur,” she said.
 
 Officials said applicants from Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Pune, Solapur and Ahmednagar can apply for passport at the POPSK. “People are curious about the working of the new office. We have been receiving inquiries from almost 200 persons every day, apart from the regular formal appointments,” said  , verification officer of POPSK, Kolhapur. 
 
 He added that they had received applications from Satara, Sangli districts too in first three days. “This office has saved time and money for the applicants, who earlier had to travel to Pune to get a passport. Even the long waiting list would delay in passport issuance process. Now, the game has changed. Youngsters and businessmen form a large chunk of the applicants,” Narake said.
 
  was very happy that he got primary information about passport process at the office closer home. “I want to fly abroad for work. The officials gave me all documents of information and explained process of obtaining passport. Now, I can seek appointment in Kolhapur itself,” he said. 
 
 Residents of western Maharashtra have long been demanding opening of a passport office here to make the process quicker and easier for them. The few passport camps organised in Kolhapur in the past had received overwhelming response. 
 
 Narake said that the ministry of external affairs has also approved the office at Pimpri in Pune and it would be operational soon. “The ministry is mulling over starting a similar office at Solapur,” he said. 
 
