CANACONA: The rape and murder of Irish national   three weeks ago brought Canacona to a grinding halt on Friday morning as the town remained shut for a   in solidarity with the victim. Protestors also demanded a clampdown on the nefarious activities on the   tourist belt.

 Shop owners at the local market, the beach shacks at Palolem and Agonda, motorcycle pilots, taxi drivers, rickshaw drivers and businessmen supported the bandh by keeping their shops and business activities shut. This act of the local residents evoked appreciation from the foreigners who had gathered for a condolence meet organized by Canconkars at Gaitonde ground.
 
 Speaking to the media, French national Tibo said that they had never expected such great support from the locals in this case.
 
 Speaking at the meet,   Isidore Fernandes said that the drug menace is on the rise due to the weak functioning of the police. He spoke about the rising crime rate in the state, but how, in most cases, the Goa police have faced failure. 
 
 Ex-MLA Vijay Pai Khot said that strict action must be taken against Vikat Bhagat, who has been charged with McLaughlin’s murder, without fear of political or other pressure tactics. Commenting that the drug menace in Canacona is increasing due to increasing late night parties along the beachside, Khot suggested that these parties be strictly banned.   chairperson Prarthana Gaonkar promised the foreign tourists that the beaches of Canacona will be safe for them and that the locals will always be with them.
 
 Social activist Vikas Bhagat recalled that about one-and-a-half year back, a few like-minded Canconkars had, on three occasions, given a memorandum to the then SP and Dy SP stating that the drug menace is on the rise at Palolem beach side. They had demanded that this, as well as the illegal activities being carried out by a group of youth, should be controlled Accordingly a meeting was called for by Sammy Tavares in May, 2016, at Palolem to discuss this issue. Locals had demanded a police outpost at Palolem, installation of CCTV cameras at the Palolem junction and strict action against Vikat Bhagat and his gang. Dy SP Sammy Tavares had promised the locals that their demands would be fulfilled within six months. During this meet it was brought to Tavares’ notice that till date, none of the above demands had been fulfilled.
 
