NAGPUR: Students from B-schools and engineering institutions from Nagpur and away presented their analysis of the industrial spectrum in   and brought to light the untapped potential in the region during the final presentation round of Knowledge Quest 2017 organized by   ( ), Nagpur.

 The programme was held at VIA’s auditorium at Udyog Bhavan, Civil Lines, on Monday. Eight teams totalling 23 students from six business and engineering colleges participated in the event.
 
 The panel of jurors for the competition consisted of patron member of VIA Hargovind Bajaj, co-founder of Nagpur Angels Shashikant Chaudhary, director of Shilpa Steel and Power Ltd Karan Bagaria and managing director of   Sanjay Ranka. 
 
 Each participating team was given 10 minutes to give a presentation on their chosen topic followed by a five minute question and answer round conducted by the panellists.
 
 Team Concept from   gave a presentation on skill gap in Vidarbha and how it can be developed. The team concurred that there is a demand and supply gap in skilled labour and cited lack of soft skills as the primary cause. According to their research 38 lakh out of 1.34 crores of the workable population in the region is unemployed thanks to lack of skill development.
 
 Even with the literacy rate of Vidarbha at 83.58% (more than the state average) there is still a considerable gap in the skilled labour market, the team claimed. This, they informed, is due to a mismatch between the curriculum taught in colleges and industry requirements. The students highlighted that opportunities in the banking, finance services and insurance (BFSI) sector, IT, health care and logistics can be tapped with focused skill training in institutions.
 
 Team Planeteers, also from IIM, presented the scope for renewable energy in the region focusing largely on solar energy. Despite the high cost of solar panels the team opined that industries will save significant revenue on electricity costs. As far as the domestic users are concerned, the players suggested creating awareness among the public which will address the lack of trust in the technology.
 
 
