KOLKATA: For the first time in the last several years, the   and the ministry of railways seem to be working in tandem to complete the long-pending  . While the state government did its bit to relocate encroachers on railway land between Noapara and Jessore Road,   Railway didn’t waste any time in starting work along the 700-800 metre stretch from where the squatters were removed.

 “As soon as the demolition was completed and debris removed, the area was barricaded and piling work started on Saturday. Our smaller rigs have already started operating there. However, the larger hydraulic drills will take 2-3 days more to reach the site. This is because of the narrow approach roads. The large trailers aren’t able to access the site. They will unload the parts of the larger hydraulic rigs about 2-3 km away where they will be assembled before being taken to the site. This was the biggest hurdle of all and now that work has started, we hope to commission the   stretch by June, 2018,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway.
 
 The state’s interest in completing the projects seem to have been spurred by a decision by the Centre to not allow the railways to participate in any further urban transportation projects anywhere in the country. Henceforth, all Metro projects will have to be undertaken by state governments with private partnership if required. Had there been any further delay in extending the North-South Metro corridor beyond Noapara, the Centre may have scrapped the Noapara-Barasat via Bimanbandar and Noapara Barrackpore via Baranagar-Dakshineswar links altogether.
 
 “The first encroachments to be removed belonged to the 150-odd squatters in Baranagar. Demolition of shanties belonging to 573 encroachments between the Dum Dum Cantonment LC Gate to the Bagjola Canal started on March 19 and was completed within a week. This is in accordance with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s assurance to Metro Railway general manager M C Chauhan a few months ago on the removal of encroachers. Now, there are only a few more encroachers within the Kamarhati Municipality area who have moved court. The next dates of hearings have been fixed and this matter will be resolved soon, paving the way for the network up to Dakshineswar,” another Metro official said.
 
 Thousands of people living in and around Dum Dum Cantonment and Jessore Road will be benefited once these places are connected to the Metro network. Not only will travel time be saved, there will be less congestion on the streets with people relying less on road transport. Suburban trains passing through Dum Dum Cantonment will also be less crowded, particularly during the peak hours.
 
 
