NEW DELHI: Just two days after Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) managed to browbeat Ramjas College into cancelling its invitation to Umar Khalid for a seminar,   called off a street play competition on Thursday in similar circumstances. The president of the ABVP-led Delhi University Students' Union (Dusu), Amit Tanwar, claims he told the principal that if there was anything "objectionable and anti-national" in the event, security for it could not be guaranteed.

 The principal, Jaswinder Singh, tried to put up a brave front, saying he had simply "postponed" the event. Denying that he was under any pressure, Singh said the college administration consulted all stakeholders and police and decided to postpone the competition because the situation was not conducive for the event.
 
 The theatre convener and an assistant professor at the college, Saikat Ghosh, however, confirmed that the event was cancelled after repeated threats from Dusu. "They objected to some of the plays which were critical of their idea of exclusivist hypernationalism," he said. Ghosh claimed there were "repeated threats from DUSU and the police also appealed to us to call off the event in the interest of restoring peace and normalcy in the campus."
 
 The annual street play competition, Pratyaksh, was organised by the college theatre group, Ankur. It was part of the college festival, Lashkara, and nine colleges, including SGTB Khalsa, were to perform.
 
 The topics were wide-ranging: "Accidental Death Of An Anarchist" by Kirori Mal College; "Saare Jahan Se Acha" by Hindu College; and "Sawal To Uthega" by Sri Guru Gobind Singh College of Commerce. "Main Kashmir aur aap? Main Manipur" by Gargi College and "Kachru Ka Monologue" by Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies were in the process of being confirmed.
 
 Tanwar claims he was called up by the principal who asked him if conditions were conducive for them to continue with the plays. "I told him he should read the scripts and see for himself if there is anything objectionable," he said. "Though we had no objection to any play in particular, I told the principal that if there is any play that's questionable and 'anti-national', then the security of the event cannot be guaranteed."
 
 The student president of the theatre group, however, backed his principal's statement and denied any pressure from DUSU. He said they had "taken the views of all stakeholders of DU," including the police. "The police told us to take a decision on the event, and promised us security, if required," added the principal.
 
