Trichy: The president of an advocates’ association and another person, who were suspected to be behind the incident in which a powerful country-made cracker was hurled at a hotel on Bharatiyar Road, were arrested by the city police on Friday.

 The Cantonment police arrested advocate Rajendrakumar, president of the Trichy criminal court advocates association and Rajesh from Chathiram bus stand on Friday evening. Police said a couple of unidentified people came by a motorcycle and hurled the explosive at the reception of the Chendur Hotel at 5.30am on Friday. The proprietor of the hotel, M Tamilarasan from Cantonment lodged a complaint with the police stating that Rajendrakumar and Rajesh were behind the attack. 
 
 Tamilarasan said the impact of the blast blew up the reception glasses into smithereens and damaged an air-conditioner. In his complaint to the police, he said the incident took place after a dispute with Rajendrakumar over money. 
 
 According to Tamilarasan, his friend Rajesh borrowed Rs 14 crore as loan from one Karuppiah in KK Nagar using his reference few years ago. Unable to repay the loan, Rajesh transferred his property in Kodaikanal to Karuppiah in 2014 and settled the dispute. However, in February 2017, Karuppiah allegedly demanded Tamilarasan to pay him the interest for Rs 14 crore which Rajesh had borrowed. 
 
 To be on the safer side, Tamilarasan had held some of the documents of Rajesh’s property as he had vouched for him. The complainant alleged that Rajendrakumar came into the scene and insisted on returning some of the documents. 
 
 Subsequently, Rajendrakumar pressurised Tamilarasan and threatened him to part with Rs 4 crore as interest to Karuppiah and Rs 1.5 crore to himself for settling the matter amicably. 
 
 The complainant said the incident comes in the wake of threats given by Rajendrakumar. Hence, he asked the police to take action on them. Based on the complaint, police registered cases under Sections 294 (b), 436, 506 (i) of IPC, 3 of TNPPDL Act read with 4(b) of Explosives Substances Act, 1908 and arrested the duo.
 
 
