MUMBAI:   on Tuesday thwarted an attempt by a   to collect tax in Maharashtra on the  , the world's fastest   and a crucial addition to India's armoury. 

 A division bench of Justice   and Justice Burgess Colabawalla struck down a demand of the assistant commissioner of sales tax at Nagpur asking an Indo-Russian joint venture named BrahMos Aerospace Pvt Ltd (BAPL) to shell out Rs 117 crore as taxes for missile sales for assessment year 2012-2013.
 
 "We have no hesitation in agreeing with BAPL that the movement of goods has been made pursuant to an agreement of sale with the President of India. The Ministry of Defence receives the missiles for use in times of war and also for training," said the judges. BAPL's lawyers had argued that the assessment order was contrary to law. "They are meant for use by the department for the safety and security of the country. It is, therefore, clear that though the Government of India places an order for the said missiles, the transactions cannot be treated as a normal sale," its lawyers said.
 
 BAPL had contended that it had treated the transactions as inter-state sale of missiles effected from its Hyderabad unit. It had therefore paid central sales tax to the assistant commissioner of tax in Hyderabad although BAPL has challenged the tax claim in Hyderabad as well and the case is pending before the high court.
 
 The authority in Nagpur, however, insisted that Maharashtra was the appropriate state for the purpose of levy and collection of the Central Sales Tax on the transactions.
 
 BrahMos, a short-range supersonic cruise missile that can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft or land, is being developed through a joint venture between India's Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Russia's NPO Mashinostroeniya. Since 2007-2008, BAPL has been importing the missiles in a semi-knocked down condition and assembling them in its Hyderabad unit for sale to the Indian armed forces.
 
 BAPL makes three types of missiles - one for combat, second for practice and the third for training. It is only the combat missiles that are fitted with the warheads. The Hyderabad unit is located in a civilian area and to avoid large-scale damage in the event of an accident, the warheads are stored at the Nagpur unit. The completed missiles are sent from the Hyderabad unit to be fitted with the warheads at Nagpur and then inducted into the forces.
 
 In 2015, the assistant sales tax commissioner at Nagpur passed an order for 2012-13 raising a demand for taxes. The contention was that missile components are integrated in a semi-finished state at Hyderabad and brought to Nagpur for integration from where the finished products are dispatched to customers. Therefore it is an inter-state sale from Nagpur, eligible to be taxed in Maharashtra, the authority claimed.
 
 BAPL opposed this and said the assembly and production of the missile takes place at the Hyderabad facility and the Nagpur unit is only a stopover for fitting the warhead on the missile. 
 
 
