PATNA: Bihar   chief   on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, widely considered as the saffron party’s Hindutva face, will attend the 20-day mega mass contact programme of the party in the state which will be kicked off from Vaishali on Friday. The date of Yogi’s Bihar visit, however, is yet to be finalised.

 The 20-day programme, which will continue till June 15, is aimed at highlighting the good works of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre in the last three years. “I spoke to the UP chief minister today. He has agreed to visit Bihar,” Rai said.
 
 The UP CM and his deputy   are likely to address separate public meetings in Bihar. The BJP central leadership has planned 900 such meetings across the country which will be addressed by senior party functionaries. All 38 district headquarters in Bihar are likely to be included on the list. 
 
 “Union ministers, MPs, party’s central office-bearers and senior state functionaries will address public meetings to highlight the achievements of PM Modi,” Rai said.
 
 “The stress is on activating the booth-level committees in the state. The state has 62,000 polling booths. Several party workers have been identified to conduct door-to-door mass contact programme in different villages. Senior party functionaries will interact with booth-level workers during their visit to the state,” Rai said.
 
 Addressing mediapersons here, Rai said the BJP-led NDA government has given constitutional status to National Backward Classes Commission. “The rural electrification under Deendayal Upadhayaya Gram Jyoti Yojana is aimed at giving power connections to every village and household,” he added. 
 
 Referring to the grand alliance partners in Bihar, Rai said the questionable activities of its chosen people had brought bad name to the state. He said CM   should free the state from corruption and crime.
 
 Former state BJP chief  , who will be in Nawada on Friday, said the party will highlight the good works of Modi government and failures of the Nitish Kumar-led Mahagathbandhan government in the state. 
 
 “At every booth, the party workers will participate in ‘swachhta abhiyan’. It will be followed by plantation of saplings and booth committee meetings. Finally, there will be door-to-door campaign during the day and village ‘chaupals’ at night,” Pandey added. 
 
 Meanwhile, state JD (U) chief spokesman Sanjay Singh said the BJP has been talking about superficial matters, and has not paid any attention to narrowing the gap between the developed and underdeveloped states in the country. Singh said CM Nitish Kumar has always pleaded for the framing of short, medium and long term strategic policies to narrow the gap between states, but the BJP is engaged in self-praise. 
 
