PUNE: The banning of parking in   to ease traffic congestion has sparked off protests from shopkeepers and local residents. 

 On March 10, the   ( ) installed sign boards banning parking on both sides of   and   up to Gawali Mala.
 
 A few days later, the shopkeepers submitted a memorandum to the traffic police appealing them to relax the ban or introduce a system where vehicles could be parked on one side of the road. However, even after a fortnight, there has been no action, they say.
 
 The bakery lane has become congested as many vehicles coming from the Hadapsar side use a shorter route by taking a left turn from the Pune-Solapur Highway to reach Fatimanagar and Wanowrie. Motorists often use this route to evade payment of vehicle entry tax to the PCB contractor on Shivarkar Road.
 
 There are a large number of housing societies here but most of them do not have parking facilities. This forces residents and shopkeepers to park their vehicles on Bakery Lane. The lane is narrow and has no scope for widening. Further, it has become congested because of the rapid urbanisation at Fatimanagar, Wanowrie and Hadapsar, say residents.
 
 The sign boards say parking has been banned up to a distance of 30 meters on either sides of the road, but the ban has not yet been completely enforced because work on laying a drainage line is in progress. So, many residents who have four-wheelers are constrained to park their vehicles on the Pune Solapur Highway. The residents say that after the pipeline work is over, in about 15 days, police will start enforcing the order strictly, which will be worse for them.
 
 D N Yadav, the chief executive officer of PCB, on Monday told TOI that the no-parking boards were installed as per recommendations made by the traffic branch to de-congest traffic. 
 
 Yadav agreed that the residents' concerns were genuine and promised to inspect the site and make alternative arrangements for parking at the earliest.
 
 Businessman Pravin Shedkar said, "The police has banned parking without taking us into confidence. A few years ago, the place was converted into P1, P2, (parking on one side of the road) but now parking has been banned on both sides as two-wheelers were creating a nuisance to the smooth flow of traffic. This has affected our businesses by nearly 40% as customers avoid coming here due to the dearth of parking space. We have requested police to ban the plying of four-wheelers coming from Hadapsar side and introduce P1 parking on one side of the road in public interest."
 
 PCB elected member Vinod Mathurawala said PCB has temporarily closed the road for vehicles coming from Hadapsar side for work on laying underground drainage line from Pune-Solapur Highway to the bakery. "Once it is completed, we will take a call to remove the no-parking boards," he said.
 
 Inspector Kalpana Jadhav, in-charge of the Wanowrie traffic division, said, "The installation of no-parking boards has reduced traffic congestion. We have not taken action against violators because PCB has commenced the work of laying underground drainage line. Parking on road side corners is not allowed. We have installed boards as violators challenge our actions saying there are no boards warning them from parking on the corners."
 
