PUNE: The defence counsel in the  , gang-rape and murder case argued on Friday that the accused-turned-approver,  , cannot be considered as an approver as he was not an accomplice in the crime in strictly legal terms. Only an accomplice can become an approver, the counsel argued. 

 Pujari, an engineer with a software company in Kharadi, was kidnapped on the night of October 7, 2009. Her body was recovered from the Zarewadi forests in Khed taluka on October 9, 2009. Main accused Yogesh Raut and co-accused Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam are being tried for various offences, including murder and criminal conspiracy, while Chaudhary, the fourth accused, has turned an approver. 
 
 Chaudhary participated in the alleged gang-rape offence, but parted ways thereafter with Raut, Thakur and Kadam on learning that the victim belonged to the same company where he was working as a security guard. The victim is alleged to have been killed later by the other three accused. As such, Chaudhary is not part of the murder and criminal conspiracy offences for which the other three accused are being tried.
 
 Presenting his final arguments before additional sessions judge L L Yenkar here, defence lawyer   referred to Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act and cited the Supreme Court’s interpretation in different judgments as to who can be an accomplice. He submitted that the SC has described an accomplice as a person who has participated along with the other accused in a given crime. “All offences committed by all accused is the underlying implication of such interpretation,” he argued. 
 
 Aloor submitted that in the instant case Chaudhary was not an accomplice, but he may be considered as a spy witness or a decoy or partisan witness. The evidence recorded by him cannot be considered as an approver’s evidence, the counsel argued. 
 
 He further argued that the prosecution did not explain the circumstances that compelled Chaudhary to record a confessional statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before a first class judicial magistrate. 
 
 Chaudhary had filed an application before the sessions court expressing his desire to record confessional statement. The sessions court had allowed his plea. Co-accused Thakur then moved the Bombay high court against this. The high court while dismissing Thakur’s plea had ordered that Chaudhary can record his statement and the latter did so. Subsequently, Chaudhary made another plea that he wanted to withdraw his confessional statement. 
 
 Aloor argued that the prosecution has till date not contradicted Chaudhary’s claim that he turned an approver under pressure from the police. As such, his statement cannot be considered as true, complete and credible disclosure which is a key requirement of an approver’s evidence, the counsel argued. 
 
 He submitted that the conduct of the accused-turned-approver ought to be weighed by the court in determining whether it can rely on the approver’s evidence. Aloor also submitted that there were procedural lapses in the recording of Chaudhary’s confessional statement.
 
