KOCHI: While the Delhi   Rail Corporation (DMRC) is of the view that delay in land acquisition has delayed execution of Kochi Metro’s civil works from Maharaja’s College to Pettah, the   (KMRL) maintains that they have already handed over the required land along the stretch. 

 Countering DMRC principal adviser E Sreedharan’s statement on land acquisition, KMRL said that they have “acquired and handed over the entire land required for the construction of Metro to DMRC”.
 
 As per the data released earlier, the planned Metro alignment between Maharaja’s College ground and Pettah required about 6.50 hectares.
 
 “Except for the land required for widening the stretch between Chambakkara and Pettah on Vyttila-Pettah road, we have met all other land acquisition requirements,” said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 The Metro work from Vyttila to Pettah or Tripunithura could be taken up only after completing road widening, the spokesperson added.
 
 It was pointed out that of one of the DMRC’s contractors had started to set up barricades at   to proceed with the work from Maharaja’s College to Ernakulam south in December 2015. However, DMRC off-loaded this contractor and decided to retender the work. 
 
 But the Metro authority could not finalize the tender as there was only one contender and has decided to retender it. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Metro works are progressing between Panampilly Nagar and Vyttila. 
 
 “These developments are a clear indication that land was made available for construction of Kochi Metro. In fact DMRC is finding it difficult to find contractors to undertake the remaining work in Kochi. It is difficult for contractors to meet the stringent clauses stated in the contract under the current circumstances in Kochi,” said a representative of Kochi Metro contractor.
 
 DMRC had promised to complete Metro works from Aluva to Palarivattom in December 2015, and the stretch from Palarivattom to Pettah by March 2016.
 
 Meanwhile, a report on social impact assessment (SIA) for extending Metro to Tripunithura was also submitted. The report will be taken up for discussion by an expert committee and people’s representatives on Monday. 
 
