Bhubaneswar: As the city gears up to host the 22nd   Championship from July 6, preparations are in full swing at  , venue of the four-day event.

 More than 700 athletes from nearly 45 countries would participate in 42 events (21 each for boys and girls) during the international event, which will be the first of its kind to be held in the state. The winners of the event will directly qualify for the World Championships to be held from August 4 to 13.
 
 Officials of the state sports and youth affairs department that manages the stadium are working extra hours to keep the stadium ready by June 15.
 
 “The existing relay track at the main stadium is being replaced with international standard synthetic track. Flood light stands and separate tracks are also being prepared for events like long jump, high jump and other events. The chairs at the main stadium for nearly 5000 people would also be replaced for the event,” said a stadium official.
 
 Sports secretary Vishal Dev has been monitoring the stadium renovation works on a daily basis.
 
 The state government, which got the opportunity to organize the event after Ranchi pulled out of the race, is spending nearly Rs 43 crore for the sports extravaganza.
 
 Renovations of the stadium apart, the Smart City project authorities are also working to strengthen the city transportation system and revamping the traffic management along the Raj Bhavan-Nalco square route. The state government would also exhibit Odisha’s culture and heritage during the mega event. 
 
 Nearly 800 rooms will be booked in different hotels of the city for accommodation of players, coaches, sports administrators and officials of Athletics Federation of India (AFI) and International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF), official sources said.
 
 Chief minister Naveen Patnaik recently unveiled the logo and mascot of the event. The mascot, named OLLY, represents the famous Olive Ridley sea turtles that choose Odisha beaches as their nesting site.
 
 Odia Olympian Anuradha Biswal had recently stated that the event would boost the state’s sports infrastructure, besides being an opportunity for our athletes to watch world-class athletes in action.
 
 
