MUMBAI: A public announcement by the Union  , proclaiming that   have become easier now has riled city builders, who claimed corruption, in fact, has hit the roof. 

 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta and some senior officials having been fine-tuning the system to make it more transparent, but construction industry sources say little has changed on the ground.
 
 "Ease of doing business in BMC is a myth. Online approvals have increased the work and delays. The engineering staff still asks for hard copies, thereby duplicating work,'' said a builder. "Corruption has not reduced a bit. You pay money at every step for procuring permission, although now they may not ask in advance."
 
 On Friday, the ministry issued advertisements saying time-bound construction approvals have improved considerably in Mumbai and Delhi because of online application of building plans. 
 
 In Mumbai, it said, the average time for approvals has reduced to 23 from 365 earlier, while the average time for procuring a commencement certificate as also occupancy/completion certificate has reduced to nine days from 90. In Mumbai, the BMC's building proposals department sanctions building plans. Last month, Union urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu held a meeting with senior bureaucrats from Mumbai and Delhi and a delegation of leading developers on the Ease of Doing Business. The head of a Mumbai-based construction firm said the situation has worsened since BMC introduced online proposals.
 
 But municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said, "If the proposal is not approvable, the builders tend to complain. We can take action if there is a proper complaint in case a proposal is rejected on flimsy grounds." Mehta said building plans are now monitored closely online by senior officials. 
 
 On a private group chat comprising some leading developers (accessed by TOI), one of them said, "Let us not be delusional, nothing will change. I think it's deeply ingrained in our psyche, most of us want short cuts and more and more of everything. All of us are full of greed and avarice. Government staff is no exception. Corruption has become a culture. And it is prevalent everywhere. It is an illusion to believe that corruption will be reduced by introduction of any policy. My experience is that the bribe amount has increased after the introduction of Rs 2,000 note."
 
 One developer narrated his recent experience: "I have been trying to clear the first table in the building proposal department (eastern suburbs) for four months in spite of all necessary clearances. I have been doing business in tier 3 cities. Situation is no different. We are only being hypocrites when we laud a policy of the government. Fact is, nothing changes.''
 
 In 2014, TOI had exposed how corrupt officials in the building proposals department extorted huge sums from developers to clear legal projects. Industry sources said the bribe demands are mind-boggling: Rs 1,200 per sqft in the island city, Rs 800 per sqft between Bandra and Andheri, and up to Rs 600 per sqft in the eastern suburbs. The situation was such that a group of 25 top builders met to decide on approaching senior department officials to seek reasonable bribe rates. Any delay in starting a building project could cause severe loss to developers, who procure loans at high interest rates. 
 
 Following the TOI report, the civic administration shunted out a dozen engineers from the department.
 
