KOLKATA: Hit by a sharp drop in revenue collection, the   ( ) has decided to continue with the current annual rental valuation (ARV) system even after introducing the unit area assessment (UAA) method.

 Mayor   has made it clear that the KMC assessment department will send property tax bills under the ARV system. “After self-assessment, if a taxpayer finds that his/her tax has gone up, we will adjust the same in the suspense account. If we find that a tax payer has paid less than what he/she should, we will send arrear bills,” he said.
 
 The decision to go with the dual tax system was taken after the civic bosses realized that there had been a significant drop in revenue collection in past two months. Sources in the KMC revenue department conceded that revenue collection had dipped after declaration of UAA system in October last year. 
 
 “We are running short of our target revenue collection. It has particularly taken a backseat after the UAA scheme was announced last year. To cope with the situation, we have decided to continue with the old system even after introduction of the UAA,” said a KMC assessment department official.
 
 According to an estimate, the KMC is running 4-5% short of its target revenue. KMC assessment department had set a Rs 900-crore revenue target that it had expected to collect from 6.5 lakh assesses by March 31. “Going by the current trend, the target now seems impractical. We are lagging behind and the gap is widening every day,” said a KMC revenue department official.
 
 Displeased with the revenue shortfall, municipal commissioner   held a meeting last week and asked for an explanation from the civic bosses. Not satisfied with the replies, Ahmed asked the senior officials to issue show-cause notices to 27 assessment department inspectors.
 
 “Issuing a notice to so many inspectors is unprecedented. This has created panic among the assessment department inspectors,” said a KMC revenue department official. To make up for the loss, the department has started issuing distress warrant against a section of habitual tax defaulters. “Failing to pay up, we will attach their properties,” said a department official.
 
 However, revenue department officials stopped short of admitting that it will be very tough to continue with the old ARV system even after introducing the UAA method. Under Section 183A of the KMC act (1980), as soon as a new system for property tax collection is introduced, the old one gets scrapped automatically. “But we need to continue with the old system till some time even after implementation of the UAA as the switchover is likely to dent the civic coffer,” said a revenue department official.
 
 
