PANAJI: Chief minister   allocated portfolios to his nine ministerial colleagues on Monday with no big suprises except that tourism portfolio has gone to Manohar Azgaonkar alias Babu Azgaonkar of MGP. 

 In what appears to be a plan to keep the leaders of the coalition partners and one independent happy, they have been allotted portfolios of their choice.
 
 TOI in its March 17 edition had reported the portfolios that   was likely to allocate to his ministerial colleagues and most of them were on expected lines. 
 
 MGP’s Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar will continue to hold the public works department portfolio, while Goa Forward Party’s   has been allotted town and country planning (TCP). 
 
 In the last   government, TCP was initially with Parrikar and later with Francis D’Souza. 
 
 This time around, D’Souza has retained urban development, while the independent MLA from Porvorim, Rohan Khaunte, has got revenue. GFP’s Siolim MLA Vinod Palyekar, who defeated Dayanand Mandrekar of BJP, has bagged his ministry too—water resources department. 
 
 Independent MLA from Priol Govind Gaude has been allotted art and culture. 
 
 Former sports minister in the Congress government is the new tourism minister. Dilip Parulekar who was the tourism minister in the last regime lost the   seat to Jayesh Salgaonkar. Former revenue minister and MLA from Cumbarjua Pandurang Madkaikar is the new power minister. His predecessor Milind Naik who won by less than 150 votes in Mormugao has not been inducted in the cabinet. The other former minister who is elected but doesn’t find a berth in the cabinet is Alina Saldanha, the lone woman legislator of BJP.
 
 Besides home and finance, Parrikar will also hold the personnel, general administration, vigilance and transport portfolios. The main task before Parrikar is to improve the financial health of the state, while continuing development, analysts say. 
 
 Two berths in the cabinet are yet to be filled. There are at least four aspirants for the posts. Vishwajit Rane who resigned from the Congress is one of them. 
 
 Parrikar said that after the budget session, he will allocate another portfolio to the ministers. Parrikar had announced that a cabinet reshuffle would be held in April, when more portfolios would be allotted. 
 
 On March 14, Parrikar, along with nine ministers, were sworn in as ministers and he won the trust vote on .
 
