PUNE: A third-year medical student of B J Medical College was recently threatened by two motorcyclists around 1am when he was walking from the boys' hostel to the college library on Sassoon Road. 

 Interns and students often walk between their hostel and the college near Ambedkar's statue on Pune station road late in the night and they have such experiences almost every day. Many end up handing over their cellphones, cash, wallets and other belongings out of fear.
 
 Students prefer to study in the college library at night as hectic classes during the day leave them with little time for self-study. They said police complaints by students have not improved the situation and criminal elements keep coming back to threaten them.
 
 The third-year student refused to be identified but said, “About two weeks ago, I woke up at 1am and got ready to go to the library to study. Since we had classes during the day, I always study during the night after getting some sleep after the classes. I came out of the boys’ hostel and started walking towards the college inside Sassoon  . The lane that connects boys’ hostel and the hospital poses the maximum threat as these   lurking about in the darkness often stop students and take away all their belongings. When I was walking down the lane, I was stopped by two bikers. They spoke in Hindi, ‘Jo bhi hai woh de do’. (Whatever belongings you have just give it to us.) They carry knives and use them to threaten students. Since I was aware of such incidents happening I ran from the spot and entered the Sassoon gate.”
 
 Students have been giving oral complaints to the police station about the threats, but there has been no respite. 
 
 A student said, “Sometimes, interns have to put in 24-hours of duty and return at midnight to the hostel. They also have the same problem and passing by this road even in company of other students is not safe for us.”
 
 They want police patrolling after 11pm around the hospital and hostel to keep these thieves at bay who are often active between 1am and 4am, after which public transport buses start plying and PMPML employees are around. 
 
 The students have not taken this to the notice of the college administration as the problem was more prevalent outside the hostel. The college dean chose not to comment when TOI contacted him. 
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Suresh Bhosale said, “We will increase patrolling on Susie Sorabjee Road where the BJ Medical College hostel is located. The Bund Garden police has not received any written complaint from the hostelites, but instructions have been issued to the police station’s in-charge to have a dialogue with medical students and doctors. We will take action if we get a complaint.”
 
 
