GREATER NOIDA: Two   returning home with a   were thrashed on Thursday afternoon in   in the same kind of violent vigilantism that led to the lynching of   Pehlu Khan in Alwar last month.

 Bhoop Singh (50) and his 30-year-old nephew Jabar Singh were accosted in a   village by a group of men (8-9 in number), who accused them of being cattle smugglers and rained punches and kicks on them.
 
 “We pleaded that we were Hindus and local farmers, but they did not listen,” Jabar later told TOI at Noida’s district hospital, where he and his uncle were brought for treatment. “They abused us verbally and kicked us on the stomach and even the face. We collapsed on the ground but they continued beating us.” But the men, who introduced themselves to police as BJP workers, did not relent. Instead, they dragged Bhoop and Jabar nearly 1.5km to Jewar police station and handed them over to the cops, saying they had caught cattle smugglers “red-handed”. In the meantime, people had gathered, at the spot where the assault happened and along the road to the police station. But no one intervened. 
 
 The truth became apparent to the police when they questioned Bhoop and Jabar and verified their version with people in Sirsa Khadar, the village where they live, and Mehndipur, where they were returning from. Four of the assailants — Mahesh Kumar, Ashok, Gaurav and Om Prakash — were booked for rioting, causing hurt and insult with intent to provoke breach of peace under sections 147, 323 and 504 of the IPC.
 
 Suniti, SP (rural) Gautam Budh Nagar, said searches were on to arrest the four men. “We are taking the issue seriously. The accused are at large but we will arrest them soon,” she said.
 
 Bhoop and Jabar told police they had received the six-year-old cow and the calf as a gift from a Muslim friend, Asghar, in Mehndipur. Asghar, they said, did not want to keep the cow because it yielded barely 2 litres of milk a day. Bhoop had agreed because his family already had two cows and the extra milk yield would be useful.
 
 They were on the road connecting Mehndipur and Sirsa Khadar when the vigilante group attacked them. “We stopped near the Devi Temple because we felt thirsty, and the cows also needed water. We found a hand pump. But we were surrounded by vigilantes immediately,” Bhoop said. 
 
 Bhoop and Jabar were admitted to hospital with chest pain and some shoulder and facial injuries. Doctors said the injuries were not serious. They were first taken to the primary health centre in Jewar and subsequently to the Noida district hospital. “All injuries of Jabar are simple in nature and seem to have been caused with a blunt object except the injuries in the chest area, which we are observing. We have done an X-ray but have not found the ribs to be broken. The patient is stable,” said Arvind Kumar Atri, a doctor at the district hospital. Bhoop, he added, had also not suffered critical injuries or fractures.
 
 
