GHAZIABAD: Ten months after they were gang-raped in Bulandshahr, a woman and her minor daughter along with their family are still not being allowed to move on by their circumstances, and some of their neighbours.

 The rape survivors continue to be troubled by thefts and taunts from locals of the small   colony they are staying in. If that was not enough, three of the men accused of the gang rape who were arrested in August last year, are out on bail.
 
 The husband of the woman expressed his shock over the latest gang rape and murder in Jewar and lamented that to date one of the men accused of assaulting his wife and daughter last July was at large. He was sad that commuters on highways and link roads in Uttar Pradesh were still not safe.
 
 “One of the accused is still on the run and three were granted bail by a Bulandshahr court despite being identified by my brother,” the father of the teenage girl said.
 
 The CBI had filed a chargesheet in the case in November last year against three of the accused — Saleem Bawariya, Zuber and Sajid — who were arrested by the Bulandshahr police on August 8. Three more accused — Rais, Shavez and Jabar Singh — who were also identified by the father of the girl and her mother were nabbed by the police in October. However, they have not been named in the chargesheet.
 
 The case, which was transferred to the CBI following an order of the Allahabad high court on August 12 last year, is currently pending in a fast-track court in Bulandshahr.
 
 Months after the incident, around 12.30am on February 28, the teenage rape survivor’s iPad and school bag were stolen from the rented house on the second floor of the building in the colony even as her mother’s jewellery remained untouched. Two persons were arrested for the theft by the Ghaziabad police but only after an official of the crime branch and a relative of the family stepped in to help.
 
 Later in March, three youths in the neighbourhood taunted her with the words, “that gang-rape victim”, leading to a scuffle between her father and the youths.
 
 The father said, “When the youths taunted her, my daughter asked them what if she had been their sister. When I heard it, it was unbearable for me and I confronted them. Later, their parents sought forgiveness from us.”
 
 After seeking a licence for a revolver, the father recently sought 24-hour security from the BJP-led UP government, a government job for his wife and a house for the family in Noida. Last year, the family had turned down the flats offered to them by the Akhilesh Yadav government in Arthala, calling the area “unsuitable”.
 
 “On May 18, we met the state’s women and child welfare minister Rita Bahuguna Joshi, who immediately instructed the Ghaziabad district administration to provide 24-hour security and a two-BHK flat to us. We were also reassured by chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath on May 19 when we met him at the Lok Adalat,” he said.
 
 The family had gone to see a flat in Noida’s Sector 45 on Wednesday. “We will now decide whether we shift to the flat,” the father said.
 
 However, any kind of assistance is inconsequential to the family if the accused in the case go unpunished. “We are waiting for every accused man to be arrested,” he said.
 
 The CBI has visited them six to seven times from the day it took over the case but there has been no concrete follow-up action.
 
 
