BENGALURU: At a time when the nation is witnessing debate over whether the electronic voting machines (EVM) used in the route of Congress-SP & BSP in the recently concluded Uttar Pradesh elections,   (IT) minister for Karnataka   has thrown the gauntlet to union government for having an   in Bengaluru.

 In his tweets, Kharge has quoted a news report that says the union government has rubbished the allegations of Congress, SP and the BSP and said: “@rsprasad , best way to put a rest to this is by allowing @GoI_MeitY & @Startup_Kar to have a hackathon on seeing if EVMs can be hacked.”
 
 He has further said: “@rsprasad We will be glad to host the EVM hackathon here in the start up capital.Will be good to see disruption if any. #EthicalHacking”
 
 Kharge’s challenge comes in the wake of science and technology and IT minister   comments against the opposition parties earlier this week, which said: "If you win, then the EVMs are fine, but if you lose, then the EVMs are tampered. Wow! This is a great logic," he said,
 
 While at the outset, the move may seem politically motivated to challenge the large scale mandate given to BJP in UP and respond to Prasad’s comments, Kharge says it is more to do with the “absolute faith” being shown in the EVMs used for Parliamentary and state elections in India.
 
 “The principle rule of science is to question and have curiosity in things. Putting absolute faith in machines is not a good sign for science and technology. Scientific temper dictates to question the functioning of things,” he said.
 
 Kharge said he is serious about the challenge and considering the huge startup and ethical hacking community in Bengaluru, it will be good to see whether EVMs are indeed tamper-proof.
 
 “It will be good for the future of democratic elections,” he said, citing that similar such feelers for an ethical hackathon have been sent out to the EC and makers of the EVMs.
 
 The Supreme Court is currently in the process of hearing the EVM tampering case. The apex court has sought the EC’s response on a petition that raised doubts over the security features of electronic voting machines.
 
