NAGPUR: Shankar Sharma and his elder brother were taken into custody by   on Thursday after women from neighbourhood at Mahajanwadi in Hingna claimed they were being harassed by the duo for the last couple of years. In 2013, Shankar was   but later acquitted. 

 The Sharmas and some local women of Mahajanwadi had been at loggerheads for the last few months, which got aggravated last week, over the brothers’ misbehaving with them. The women claimed they were verbally abused and targeted with lewd remarks under influence of alcohol by the Sharma brothers who sell fruits and vegetables for a living. The women also stated before police that Sharmas had been making baseless allegations against them maligning their image in the society. 
 
 One woman told TOI that a police complaint was made in November last year too but the harassment did not stop. Instead, the threats started growing serious as the Sharma brothers would often intimidate the women stating they had weapons too to harm them or their husbands. 
 
 On March 21, a woman in her 30s had gone to the residence of Sharmas to complain against the brothers to their parents regarding harassment. Sharmas, including a widowed sister of the so-called accused brothers, severely beat up the woman and she sustained injuries on her head. The woman, along with a few neighbours, reached MIDC police station but got no relief. “The cops made us sit at the police station for four hours but and sent us back after registering a non-cognizable offence. The brothers were summoned to police station but also sent back shortly. After coming back, the emboldened Sharmas started abusing and insulting us even more,” said a woman from the area. She also claimed to have heard the Sharmas stating they had paid off the cops. 
 
 The hassled women, finding no help from the cops, later approached All   of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Organization. The organization first addressed a press conference and then headed to MIDC police station to hand over a complaint to senior PI Sunil Mahadik. It is now preparing to file a second complaint against Sharma brothers for having targeted a woman from backward community with casteist remarks. “The Sharmas frequently target women from weaker communities with derogatory comments,” said Archana Bhoyar of the organization. 
 
 PI Mahadik said Sharmas were rounded up after the complaint was lodged. “We have received complaints against the Sharmas for making casteist remarks too for which the action would be taken,” he said.
 
