THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the decision to come up with the first   police battalion, the state is all set to introduce women firefighters. The home department has cleared a proposal from the fire and rescue services to induct women firefighters into the force. 

 It is reliably learnt that the home department officials had held a meeting with the fire and rescue service officials in this regard, and asked them to give a detailed proposal. Top home department sources said that a proposal to induct 100 women firefighters has got clearance from the department, which now needs a cabinet nod.
 
 As per the proposal,  , Kochi and Kozhikode will be given 15 women firefighters each, while the remaining 11 district headquarters will be provided five each. The fire and rescue department has asked for creation of 100 new posts of firefighters, which is the entry level to the force, in addition to the existing vacancies, to induct women into the force.
 
 The state appoints manpower at the level of firemen and station officers, which is the next promotion post, to the force. The fire and rescue field department is a 5,000-men force at present.
 
 With the state giving recognition for women power, the force will be the fourth in the country to have women in the fire and rescue services. In 2003, Tamil Nadu had inducted women into the department in the officer category, while the Mumbai fire brigade had appointed five women in the fire-fighter category in 2012. The Rajasthan state government followed suit in 2014 by recruiting 155 female firefighters. 
 
 The proposal to induct women into the force was earlier mooted by the previous   government, but the matter remained in papers. The fire and rescue services in the state is in the path of modernization and as part of scaling up its procurements, the government has created a new post of finance officer for the force. The role of finance officer is to streamline the procurements, especially when the department aims at procuring state-of-the-art equipment for the force.
 
 Earlier, the government has issued orders to create an all-women police battalion in the state. At present the total strength of women police officials in the state police force is only 6.4% and the government is planning to increase it to 15%. The government has sanctioned the creation of 451 posts for setting up all-women police battalion. 
 
