NEW DELHI: Expressing distress at the findings of the Delhi Commission for Women’s surprise inspection of the state government’s   for the mentally challenged, chief minister   directed chief secretary MM Kutty to investigate and fix responsibility for the lapses by February 13. 

 By day’s end on Monday, he also wanted a report on the role of social welfare secretary Dilraj Kaur to establish if there was any dereliction of duty on her part. 
 
 While issuing directions to the chief secretary, Kejriwal said, “I am extremely disturbed by the prevailing conditions reported by DCW and in the media on the   Home.” Kutty was instructed to report on certain concerns by 4.30 pm on Monday. 
 
 The performance and role of Kaur, secretary in charge of the department of social welfare and women and child development, also came under scrutiny. The chief minister wanted details on the number and dates of visits made by Kaur to Asha Kiran Home and the two extension facilities at Asha Deep in Hari Nagar and Asha Jyoti in Narela. “Why didn’t the secretary, social welfare/WCD bring the deaths of inmates to the notice of the government? What steps did she take when each death was brought to her notice? What steps did she take to prevent these serious lapses?” Kejriwal wanted to know. 
 
 Later in the day, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is in charge of the social welfare department, visited the Asha Kiran to confirm the dismal state of affairs at the centre. He told TOI that overcrowding was a problem, so infrastructure enhancement would have to be a focus area. “I have sought data on deaths to enable us to take corrective action,” Sisodia said. “I learnt that nine of the 11 deaths took place in a hospital.” 
 
 Sisodia claimed he was disturbed to see CCTVs installed in the women’s wing being monitored by male staff. “This is highly insensitive. Those who assigned this task to the male staff must be asked to show cause,” the deputy CM said. He added that the government would explore whether the home could be improved with a professional outlook and engagement of civil society. 
 
 
