THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a volte-face, the vigilance has decided not to register a case in the  , despite a legal opinion from the advocate general in favour of registering a case. 

 Contradicting its own words before the court on January 24, 2017 that a preliminary inquiry in the scam is progressing, the agency informed the vigilance special court here on Friday that it cannot register a case on a complaint by former chief minister  , even though it has received a legal opinion in favour of registering a case.
 
 In the two-page report submitted by vigilance special investigation unit-1 DSP G L Ajith Kumar, accessed by TOI, the agency told the court that the vigilance director has obtained a legal opinion from the additional director of prosecution that since a case is pending in this regard before the lokayuktha, it was not possible to register a case.
 
 The vigilance has cited orders by high court and Supreme Court earlier on petitions by Gireesh Babu, a native of Kalamassery, before the vigilance court in August 2014, and by public activist Joy Kaitharath who had also filed petitions on the same matter before the high court and subsequently the Supreme Court to justify its stand. According to the vigilance, in both the complaints, the petitions were dismissed citing that the matter was pending before the lokayuktha.
 
 On January 24, while considering the petition by Achuthanandan against former chief minister Oommen Chandy, the special court had criticised the agency for not registering a case despite having evidences that the private builder, Artech Realtors, had encroached government land.
 
 The vigilance had then blamed the delay in registering the case on the files being in the possession of the lokayuktha. The agency had also informed the court that the preliminary inquiry in the matter was still going on and it required more time to file the report. The court also asked the counsel for Achuthanandan to furnish further evidences on the petition. Six people, including Chandy and former chief secretary Bharat Bhushan, are accused in the petition.
 
