Nagpur: Four builders have approached Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to challenge some provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. They contend that provisions restricting sale of real estate, opening of escrow account, and registration of existing projects with Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) are unconstitutional. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Rohit Deo, on Tuesday, issued notices to respondents including union secretary for department of urban, housing and poverty alleviation, state urban development department, and Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). The petitioners — Swapnil Promoters and Developers Private Limited (SPD), Swapnil Associates (SA), Sukhyog Construction Private Limited (SCPL), and Guru Construction (GC) — have moved the petition through counsel Akshay Naik. They argued that ever since the RERA Act was notified on May 1, they were facing immense difficulty while completing their ongoing projects. They prayed for a declaration that the RERA Act would not be applicable to ongoing real estate projects of the petitioners, for which completion certificate has not been issued by competent authority. Specifying Section 3 of RERA Act, the builders contended that it was unconstitutional on the grounds that if a project is carried out in phases, then each phase will be considered a separate project and the developer would have to register them accordingly. However, the provisions of RERA are not applicable to small projects on lands measuring less than 500 square meters. The petitioners also challenged the provision of the Act making it mandatory for land developers to open a separate account in a scheduled bank in which 70% of the amount received from the customers should be deposited. The amount can only be withdrawn after certification from practicing engineer, architect and chartered accountant, in proportion to the percentage of completion of a project. The petitioners have ongoing projects at different sites in the city, which are partially complete. Both Swapnil Promoters and Sukhyog Constructions have projects in Shivaji Nagar and Ram Nagar respectively, and claim to have completed 45% to 50% of the construction work. Swapnil Associates and Guru Constructions, who have ongoing projects in Kachhimet and Telangkhedi respectively, which are nearing completion, are yet to apply for completion certificates. (With inputs from Megha Tiwari)