Chennai-based drummer, 19-year-old   now holds the   for ‘The most drum beats in a minute using drumsticks is 2,109’ by breaking the previous record of an Austarlian drummer. Talking about his achievement, Siddharth, a viscom student, says, “I could achieve this only because of sheer practice. I would practice all the time and there is no particular time for me to play drums. When I am in mood, I would take up my drumsticks and start playing. I learnt about Australian   George Urosevic’s Guinness Record for maximum numbers of beats in a minute. Ever since I read it, I wanted to break that record. On February 14, I attempted speed drumming in a studio and I sent it for approval, which was later approved. I am happy that I was able to break the previous record. My intention was to not just break the record, as it was my passion for speed drumming which drove me to attain the feat.”

 Recalling an incident on how he discovered his inborn talent in drumming, he says, “Though I learnt drumming through professional training classes, my inclination towards drumming happened quite naturally. My parents had told me about an incident which happened when I was two-and-half-years old. I was asked to play a drum at a temple festival in Thiruverkadu. It was just to get hold of the instrument. But to everybody’s surprise, I performed for 12 minutes. That was the first time my talent was discovered. After this incident, I went to drumming workshops. I took training with gurus like Sivamani, Lewis Pragasam, Gopal and Vikku Vinayakram. My dad and mom, who are music experts, have been my biggest inspiration.”
 
 Siddharth avers that he was into speed drumming from a younger age. “I have heard many leading drummers play fast beats. That is very challenging and I wanted to try it. I also hold a record for 803 kick beats in a minute in the India Book of Records,” he says. As a word of advice for aspiring drummers, he says, “As far as speed drumming is concerned, the only way out to master is to practise regularly.”
 
