KOLKATA: The police on Tuesday said they have identified all four youths accused of assaulting and molesting a 30-year-old woman at a   nightclub in the early hours of Sunday. The victim’s friend and police sources said two of them are from Kolkata, while the other two might be from Delhi.

 Around 1.30am on Sunday, the youths allegedly beat up the woman after she entered a “private area” at M Bar Kitchen that the youths had reserved for themselves. Her husband was also assaulted when he tried to intervene.
 
 Cops said the breakthrough (identifying the youths) came on Tuesday, after a crack team of officers from the south division shared CCTV footage of the incident with family members and friends of the victim.
 
 “The information was widely shared even among M Bar & Kitchen staffers, who cooperated with the cops,” said a source.
 
 One of the accused, the son of a tea magnate in the city who lives in  , is said to be “absconding”, amidst strong rumours that his engagement might have to be pushed back after the incident. Police sources also indicated that the second Kolkata youth is the son of an established industrialist based in the city who has interests in the jute sector.
 
 TOI on Tuesday morning visited the home of the accused. “The whole family left the house on Monday morning, almost immediately after news began to spread. We have no clue where they are,” said a security guard. His neighbours said he was a “compulsive party-hopper”, who was not known to misbehave with anyone.
 
 The accused has switched off his phones and deactivated his Facebook profile. Social media was abuzz the entire day, with a lot of information being shared on the accused. There was even a campaign to name and shame the accused. The lead came from the victim’s sister, whose Facebook post earlier had triggered the entire media to take up the cause. She claimed the accused had sent her a message on Sunday through a friend saying he had acted “out of anger”. By evening, all those posts were deleted. TOI visited the victim’s home, but was told to come back later.
 
