GANDHINAGAR: Even as the war between parents and school administrations over   escalates, after the state passed The   (Regulation of Fees) Bill 2017, education minister   clarified that the fee regulation will be implemented from the   beginning June 2017. The minister reiterated that schools can only charges fee for three months of the current academic year, till the bill is cleared by the governor and becomes law. He said that nearly half the rules also remain to be framed.

  Chudasama said, “There are protests from parents and school management associations. In the interest of students, both parents and school authorities needs to work amicably. The state government is firm on implementing the new law. It will be implemented from June 2017 only,” said Chudasama, at a press briefing in Gandhinagar on Friday.
 
 To quell confusion about fees to be paid by parents, especially after the bill was passed, the minister said school authorities would be allowed to receive fees for only three months, till the law comes into force.
 
 “We are issuing a circular, making it mandatory to for schools to receive only three months’ fees, and if they have taken fees in advance, they will either have to refund it, or adjust it against the fees for the next term. Schools will be liable to refund fees paid in advance if the students leaves the school mid-term for any reason. Schools cannot charge fees for the whole year at once,” Chudasama said.
 
 “We expect the bill to be approved by the governor shortly. The   is working hard to chalk out the rules and formalities. More than half the work is over and the rest will be completed soon. We are in the process of appointing retired judges and experts to the committee in all four regions, namely, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara,” said Chudasama.
 
 Chudasama said, “Some parents are trying to intensify the tussle with school authorities unnecessarily, for personal gains. This must be avoided in the interest of students, as the government has taken all the necessary action.”
 
 
