KOLKATA: “Bandhu is sleeping,” Kunal Sen told Anjan Dutt, Ranjit Mullick, this writer – all of us who’d gathered in Mrinal Sen’s drawing room on Wednesday. “No, he’s actually sleeping today,” the legend’s son assured us, “yesterday he was pretending, to fob off everyone who came to condole…”.

 Kunal, the only son of Mrinal and Gita Sen, lives in Chicago where his wife Nisha is recovering from a spinal injury. He is glad that his dad is actually sleeping – “the past weeks have been such an ordeal for him!” Understandable, since his wife had gone into a coma following a cerebral attack, and the 93-year-filmmaker himself has been going frail. But though bedridden, she was there – and “Maa and I had a way of handling   when he got adamant and refused to even eat.” Now the bed is empty…. 
 
 In recent years Mrinalda has stepped less and less outside his Puddapukur home. Chief guest? Jury? Seminar? Award? Nothing would lure him outdoors. It wasn’t for his health as much as because his wife was bedridden. With Kunal and Nisha far away, the couple revelled in each other’s company. Often silence reigned between them for, by now, they understood each other without uttering a word – much like Chaplin and Oona whom Mrinalda has admired in his memoirs.
 
 Gita was the first Shome to come into his life. Bhuvan, the other Shome came much later. She was a theatre actress signed for a film when   first met her. Cupid struck as he, an unpaid assistant, coached her in the lines Gita Shome for a film that never got completed. She then acted in Ritwik Ghatak’s Nagarik (1952). Back then, inter-caste marriages were a No-No for parents; and then, Mrinal was unemployed. Still they married, and lived happily ever after. On meals of muri, fresh air, fresh ideas, fresh attempts at filmmaking. 
 
 With his wife Mrinalda had accompanied Kunal till the University gate at Chicago, he writes in Always Being Born. And as he’d looked into Gita’s glistening eyes, he’d remembered the day they’d escorted a tearful Kunal to his first playschool. Today Kunal, the chief technical development officer for Encyclopaedia Britannica, has been part of the success story that saw Britannica change and grow when many print or analog era giants fell by the wayside. But then, Kunal has been inspired by his father’s plasticity. ”He changed his style and content after every major success – not many creative people have the courage to do this.” 
 
 It couldn’t have been easy for either Mrinalda or   — as I used to address her — to live on love and little else. Not wanting to be the only non-contributing member of the family, Mrinada had moved out with his wife. This had heightened the wall that had come up with his father but deepened his trust on her. She ran his kitchen and as effortlessly became his characters. When Tripti Mitra bowed out of ‘Ekdin Pratidin’, Gita stepped in. The result? An international critic wrote that, “by marrying Gita, Mrinal had deprived cinema of a world-class actress.” 
 
 The laurels came from far and wide, mostly for him but many for her too, for the roles she essayed in Calcutta 71 (1972), Chorus (1974), Ekdin Pratidin (1979),   (1980), Khandahar (1983) - and yes, the cameo of Kalidashi in Aarohan (1982). That could be why   once observed: “He’s lucky to have a readymade heroine at home!”
 
 And the man showered with awards on the global stage? When the phone rang to announce the Dadasheb Phalke for the Ambassador of Parallel Cinema, Gita Sen kissed her husband of six decades. “No, not on the lips but she did kiss me,” Mrinalda had narrated to me. He was more delirious with this prize than the purse worth lakhs!
 
 
