CHENNAI: On allegations of favouritism in a recent recruitment drive, the state animal husbandry department has instructed   and   (Tanuvas) not to proceed with appointments to key posts.

 The fresh allegations in regard to appointments to the posts of dean, registrar, directors and estate officer cropped up while the Madras high court is hearing a case pertaining to selection of 49 assistant professors for various departments.
 
 Hours before the interview to fill these vacant posts was scheduled on September 5, the varsity received instructions to put the process on hold. The decision came on a complaint by retired director of centre for animal studies, Tanuvas, P I  .
 
 Ganesan said Tanuvas VC S Thilagar conducted the recruitment in a hasty manner without giving equal opportunity to all eligible candidates. Applications for vacant government posts usually close 30 days from the publication of an advertisement.But in the case of estate officer recruitment process, the university left only 12 days, including six government holidays, before starting the process, Ganesan said.
 
 Estate officer is a technical post on par with the post of dean and director of the varsity. The post had been vacant for nearly four years and S Kuppusamy , who is of the cadre of executive engineer, held additional charge of the post.
 
 Though university statute prescribes that the post be filled by direct recruitment or deputation, the varsity sent out a circular (a copy of which is available with TOI) restricting consideration for this post to university employees he said.
 
 Ganesan filed a PIL in the high court against this and stated that the university assured that all eligible candidates would be considered.“It published the advertisement on August 23 and gave [candidates] only 12 days' time,“ Ganesan said.
 
 He alleged that the university is bending the rules to favour Kuppusamy for the post. “Besides this there are several pending graft charges against Thilagar and he should not be allowed to continue with recruitment process across grades,“ Ganesan said in his complaint.
 
 In response, the animal welfare department instructed the VC not only to stop the selection process, but also not to call for fresh tenders, sources said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, VC Thilagar was not available for comment.
 
