LUCKNOW: While a recent high   order had asked the district   to ensure that no religious procession goes through roads with hospitals, the latter has taken no measures for the same.

 The administration’s inaction has led to confusion among religious organizations of both Hindus and Muslims. With only about 10 days to go for both   and  , there are no guidelines on the routes that processions of both should take to adhere to the HC order.
 
 From the last week of September till Diwali in October, scores of religious processions such as those for Muharram, idol immersion and Ram barats will be organised. A number of hospitals fall on their routes, particular in Old City. The HC had said that processions should avoid routes on which hospitals are located as they result in traffic jams, causing inconvenience to patients. 
 
 TOI spoke to Shia clerics and organisers of Durga Puja and Ramlila. They said the administration had not informed them about any new route plan following the HC order.
 
 Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad said, “No one has come from the district administration to talk to us about the changed route plan. The procession of eighth Muharram is a century-old and I am not the one to decide the route plan. If administrative officers come to us then we will discuss it with Anjumans (procession organisers) and other related committees. We don’t know what the administration will ask us to do.”
 
 President of Chand committee   said, “The route of KGMU for eighth Muharram is a traditional route and Shias have been taking it for more than 100 years. Twenty years ago, we had had an agreement with the district administration that we can use the road for processions. If administration officers come to me, I will talk to Anjumans and Azadaar committees for further decision.”
 
 General secretary of Raniganj Ramlila Satish Gupta said, “Our Ramlila is 40 years old and every year, the district administration gives us permission. We will take the route from Naka Hindola to Aminabad.”
 
 General secretary of Aishbagh Ramlila said, “For more than 100 years, we have been taking out Ramlila from Aishbagh to Nadan Mahal road. We will not change the route.”
 
 District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said it was a sensitive issue. 
 
 “We are planning to meet representative of religious organizations soon,” Sharma added.
 
