PUNE: Chemistry professor Ashwini Mate was going straight to Khadakwasla after her teaching hours. Mate is sure of her chances of getting a ticket from the   (BJP) for the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) polls. 

 “I am a post-graduate and among the very few with such high qualification contesting the polls. I had set two goals for myself__one was to clear the state eligibility test which I did in August and the other to contest the  . I am pursuing my second goal now,” Mate told TOI.
 
 The forthcoming ZP and panchayat samiti polls would also see more teachers and principals in the fray as they   for interviews outside the offices of various parties. Party officials have said they have interviewed many teachers from ZP schools who aspire to fight for elections. Besides, doctors and lawyers are also vying for tickets.
 
 Many officials of parties confirmed to TOI that at least over 40 aspirants from the total number interviewed belonged to the education sector. Many were principals of colleges, teachers and principals from ZP schools and professors.
 
 Mate said, “I do not have any political background. I am backed by my family members and neighbours. I want to make a difference to my area and I have chosen the democratic way.”
 
 The elections to 26 ZPs in the state will be held in two phases on February 16 and 21, followed by counting of votes on February 23.
 
 Yogita Mohol, director of another pre-school and aspirant from the Nationalist  , said, “Many aspirants in my area have barely gone to school. I have completed my post-graduation. In my opinion, for the development of any area, it is important to have highly qualified representatives with a long-term vision. I am popular in our area having run a school. The residents look up to me for any education-related consultation.”
 
 Another aspirant for an NCP ticket, Swapnil Bhor, 32, is the principal of a prominent junior college in the city. Bhor said, “I have been aiming for the ZP elections for the last three years and have started preparations since then. Age is on my side and younger leaders can bring about a change in the system. The ZP needs young blood. I have my fingers crossed till the final list by the party is out and I am hoping for a ticket.”
 
 Officials of NCP district committee said there were a considerable number of teachers and principals who turned up for the interviews which was a good sign. “Educated representatives are always required and they definitely help in contesting polls especially to woo voters. Even the voters from rural areas study their candidates minutely before making a decision and the education of a contestant is on top of their mind,” a member said.
 
