GURUGRAM: Residents of  , a condominium in Sector 50, on Thursday knocked on the doors of Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ), alleging serious   contamination in their township. In their letter to the board, they alleged the society’s drains were connected with   pits, and not with Huda’s drainage line. 

 Blaming the developer,  , for this loophole, the residents claimed they discovered the fault in the drainage system in July 2016.
 
 Spread over 16.93 acres, the highrise township houses over 500 families. There are seven rainwater pits, each with a storage capacity of 2,000 litre. “After heavy showers in July last year, drain water submerged roads outside our houses. It was when the developer pumped out the water from the roads, that we came to know the sewerage system was not connected to Huda’s main drainage lines,” alleged Pradeep Arora, a resident of Fresco.
 
 “Moreover, when we got the rainwater harvesting pits cleaned, we found muck in it. Subsequently, we accessed drawings of the society’s sewerage system and found that the drains are connected to the rainwater pits. This will have been causing serious groundwater pollution continually,” he added.
 
 Nilesh Tondon, another resident and member of Residents Welfare Cultural Social Association, termed it a cognizable offence. “Connecting sewerage to rainwater pits is a cognizable offence, as it contaminates groundwater. The pits are also poorly designed. There is no gravel layer to filter surface water before it goes underground,” he added.
 
 Asked why it took them almost eight months to highlight the issue, Tondon said: “Initially, we requested the builder to resolve it. The developer had promised to address the problem by December last year, which did not happen. When repeated pleas went in vain, we had no option but to approach HSPCB,” he claimed. 
 
 Residents also said the society’s sewage treatment plant (STP) had not been functional since July last. “In the absence of an operational STP, we’re not sure how the waste has been managed for the last eight months. The developer has kept us in the dark,” said another resident.
 
 HSPCB officials promised immediate action. “If allegations by residents are found to be true, a notice can be issued to the developer. We can also seal the society and disconnect its water connection. However, we need to carry out an inspection first, which will be done immediately,” an HSPCB official said.
 
 A Unitech spokesperson rejected the residents’ allegations. “No sewage is being discharged into rainwater pits. And the STP is under maintenance and will be functional soon,” he added.
 
 
