MUMBAI: Chief minister   on Monday reinstated suspended chief engineer   following a proposal submitted by a high-level review committee. Along with former public works minister  , Gaikwad is an accused in the Rs 749 crore Maharashtra Sadan scam.

 Gaikwad has now been posted as chief engineer,   (MSRDC).Following a case registered by the Enforcement Directorate, Bhujbal was arrested in March last year and has been lodged in Arthur Road jail.
 
 A senior bureaucrat told TOI that a high-level four-member committee comprising principal secretary (public works) Ashish Singh, Anti Corruption Bureau director general Vivek Phansalkar and deputy secretaries of the departments of public works and general administration reviewed Gaikwad's case. “On earlier occasions, a proposal for Gaikwad's reinstatement was rejected, but now it was brought to the committee's notice that no harm will be caused if he is reinstated since a charge sheet has been filed against him befo re the competent court. On the basis of the report submitted by the committee, the CM approved the proposal for his reinstatement,“ he said.
 
 Justifying the reinstatement, the bureaucrat said as per service rules, a person cannot be placed under suspension till his retirement. “As the inquiry is complete, a charge sheet has been filed and he is drawing nearly 75 per cent of the salary , no purpose will be served if the suspension is continued further. In the event he is found guilty , he will be dismissed from service,“ he said.
 
 Fadnavis had on December 14, 2014 granted permission to the ACB to conduct an open inquiry against Chhagan Bhujbal for his alleged involvement in the Maharashtra Sadan scam and against Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare for their alleged role in the allotment of contracts for major irrigation projects in the Konkan and Vidarbha regions.
 
 The ACB had on June 11, 2015 filed a criminal case against Bhujbal, his nephew Sameer, son Pankaj, Gaikwad and high-ranking engineers of the public works department under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code for cheating and forgery . While Gaikwad is still in service, most of the officials named in the first information report have retired. In its 32-page FIR, the ACB submitted that all the accused acted in connivance with the developer, resulting in a loss of Rs 749 crore to the state exchequer.
 
 
