GURGAON: For the most determined of sportspersons, a   medal is just a spur to greater things. “Next time, I will win gold,” promises  .

 Representing Haryana, this Gurgaon boy, 11 years old, had the odds stacked against him in the under-14 finals of the 62nd  , which took place last week. The venue was Delhi (Chhatrasal stadium) and his opponent was a Delhi boy. But a 2-1 decision against his favour in no way disgraced Yashwardhan, who was competing in the 40-42kg weight category.
 
 The silver followed the   Yashwardhan won at the 2015-16 Nationals. Unbeatable in his home state for the last couple of years, this rising pugilist is making observers sit up and take notice, not just of his talent inside the ropes but also his single-minded focus.
 
 Probably the most impressive of Yashwardhan’s four wins came in his second bout, against last year’s winner, Monu ‘Tyson’ Singh from Army Sports Institute, Pune. He prevailed in a technical knockout in the following round (when the referee stopped the contest), and then defeated his semi-final rival 10-6. When asked if he found the bouts tough, Yashwardhan replied, “They weren’t at all difficult — in fact, they were very easy!”
 
 So here’s a lad who doesn’t lack in self-belief. But the young and the gifted rarely blossom in a vacuum, and Satyajeet, the boy’s father, has sacrificed his trading business to help junior pursue his goal — that of representing India at the 2024 Olympic Games (and a trip to either of Budapest, Los Angeles or Paris).
 
 Dad has been supportive but not pushy. And he recognises the importance of balance. “Both exercise and rest are needed,” he told TOI.
 
 Vasyl Lomachenko, arguably the finest amateur in the annals of boxing, is a man Yashwardhan looks up to. The accomplished Ukrainian, 29, is a double Olympic (2008 and 2012) and a two-time world (2009 and 2011) champion. No better inspiration, then, for a young fighter who trains dedicatedly every day, from 5:30 to 7 am in the morning, and from 4:30 to 6 pm during evenings. Yashwardhan the student (currently in 7th class), is both bright and conscientious, a model pupil of Shalom Hills. He also plays basketball, and has shown ability in the swimming pool. 
 
 
