 When one is dedicated towards the goal, transformation cannot be far behind. Surya, an auto driver's son, from a humble background in Coimbatore, nurtured and fulfilled his dream of becoming a banker. After seeing his son's dedication his father managed to pay his fees.

  
  Knowing the immense potential of the   sector, he applied for several jobs but wasn't successful at first. Then he changed his strategy.
 
  
  Here are the five things that he did right:
 
  
  
 
 
  
  What most students aren't aware of is that recruiters look for candidates who invest in themselves. They're looking for people with a learning attitude. Brushing up, enhancing or gaining new skills and experience is a valuable trait from an HR Manager's perspective. For instance, a PGDBM from   can boost your skills and prepare you in multiple ways for a successful banking career.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  A bank which is looking for fast-paced growth will shy away from hiring newbies. So gaining relevant hands-on experience while learning is an added advantage for students who look at the bigger picture. A PGDBM program that focuses on imparting practical knowledge as well is a desirable option.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  With digitization, not just in banking but in any other career, your familiarity with technology will decide your future prospects. So it's imperative to get familiar with technology platforms, spending time on digital and social media to understand the internet and how things work will take you farther than you imagine. Therefore, pursuing a PGDBM from a reputed organization such as TimesPro bridges the gap between contemporary training methodologies and industry requirements.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  There's a massive difference between theoretical learning restricted to classrooms vis-a-vis learning from an active working professional. You get to learn about the nuances and practical case scenarios from them. It's best to pursue a Post-Grad Program that's specially designed to impart practical knowledge to the learners and make them employable. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Pursuing a Post-Grad Program at an institution with pedigree, one that's well-networked and assist you interviews at the country's top banking organizations such as  ,   will increase your chances of getting employed.
 
  
  There are many like Surya dreaming of becoming a banker someday. But when you combine hard work with a little smartness and join the leading education institution offering you the right opportunities, no dream is too big.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Media Contact:
  Sheetal Tambe, Assistant Manager - Public Relations, 7045186001, sheetal.tambe@timesgroup.com
  
  Press Release by TimesPro via  .in
