BHOPAL: Sharp at 10:30 am on Saturday as   entered a classroom in his alma mater, all students got up and greeted ‘mamaji’ in an animated manner. Responding, Chouhan greeted them by showering flower petals on them. 

 For more than an hour, he donned a cap of a masterji (teacher) at Sanjay Gandhi Middle School, Bhopal, the institute from where he had completed his primary education. He taught students moral science, Hindi and maths as part of mass teaching campaign, ‘Mile Banchey’, which was kicked off across the state on February 18. The campaign aims at encouraging educated professionals to play the role of a ‘teacher’ for a day at government-run schools. 
 
 To drive home importance of focus in education, the CM narrated a story from an epic Mahabharat. He said Arjun, a favourite student of Dronacharya, was famous for his focus and concentration and never missing his target. Staying focused like Arjun, he said, students can achieve success in studies.
 
 Giving examples of supreme sacrifices of soldiers to schoolchildren, Chouhan recited a famous Hindi poem titled ‘Pushp ki Abhilasha’. Analysing the poem, he made students understand the “sacrifice of soldiers and the importance of patriotism.” He told students about bravery of revolutionaries Bhagat Singh and Chandrashekhar Azad.
 
 Fondly called as ‘mamaji’ by children, the chief minister exhorted them to take right path in life. Demonstrating enthusiasm, all students stayed alert and made it a lively interactive session.
 
 “I want you to be always truthful. You should not cheat other as it takes a person on a wrong path. You should not make fun of others and refrain from speaking in an abusive language,” Chouhan told students.
 
 The CM wrote few mathematical questions on a blackboard and asked students to solve them. He gave three questions: one addition, one subtraction and one multiplication to students. 
 
 Going down the memory lane, he remembered Kashyap sir and Shailbala madam and the time he had spent in the school. “I used to play football, go on tours and organise bal sabha. I was an active student and teachers loved me a lot and made me a good person,” he said.
 
 Trying to make most of presence of chief minister amid them, students demanded a playground and clean toilets in the school.
 
 Towards the end, Chouhan distributed books and pencil boxes to children. He reiterated the government would bear all expenses of those students who would get 85% marks in board exams. “The state government would provide all possible help for study of talented students, who will get 85% marks in board exams. Their fee for higher education in fields like medical, engineering will be provided by the state,” he said.
 
