CHANDIGARH: A day after Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Singh surprised everyone by announcing his desire to contest against CM Parkash Singh Badal from his stronghold of Lambi, he spoke to Rohan Dua on why he would fight from Patiala as well. He insisted there were no differences with   and there was no proposal to make the ex-cricketer deputy CM chief minister.

 
 
 
 This business of coming to Lambi came up because I feel that Parkash Singh Badal has misused his position and is incompetent. That's why Punjab is in doldrums. I want to teach him a lesson. That lesson will remain part of history — that those who use their position to feather their own nest don't last. The Badals are behind land, liquor, sand, drug and transport mafia and I want to expose that. If   is now serious, he too should contest an ex-CM and a sitting CM. Let's test that. I'll make Lambi a grandfather of all battles.
 
 
 
 
 Patiala is to win. I started my political career in 1969 from Patiala. It's been 40 years that I have been in politics since then. It's my last election and I have already announced that. The people of Patiala have always given me love and affection. So, I want to end my career there and make it a swansong.
 
 Just 19 days to go for polls. Do you think this decision may have come a little late in the day?
 
 Time is irrelevant. It must be the 20th election that I am part of. I fought my first election in 1977 and then in 1980 fought for the Parliament. I had got only 13 days to cover four towns. I have plenty of time to cover two constituencies.
 
 
 
 
 It's not just a jugalbandi, we have a whole orchestra going (laughs). Twenty-eight senior Akalis, 13 AAP men and eight BJP leaders have joined me. I am personally happy that Navjot has joined us. I have known him as a little Patiala boy. His father and my mother were in Congress at the same time. In fact, I owe a great deal to his father Sardar Bhagwant Singh who helped me during my earlier career. His father and I would be at the nets when he would get bowlers from across the world to bowl to Sidhu. My brother Malwinder and I would go watch Sidhu bat as a kid.
 
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. In fact, I must reveal that Sidhu and I must have met four times in the last month. I was not there only today. But he spoke to me, called me and I congratulated him and told him to take care of his seat.
 
 
 
 
 No, not that he can't win it. But Sidhu is coming into politics after a long time. He was busy in his shoots. Let him settle into a seat which he knows. He was an MP there and his wife an MLA from the same seat. Jalalabad won't be a fair deal for him. Even Lambi is new to me, but I have addressed a few meetings as Punjab Congress chief.
 
 
 
 
 There is none. Rest is for   chief   to decide.
 
 
 
 
 I have condemned the attacks on Sukhbir's convoy and CM. But I have raised a serious complaint against their top bureaucrat Sarvesh Kaushal. He is publically maneuvering things, asking officials to help SAD. I am very sure EC will take action.
 
