SHAHJAHANPUR: A   has been named in the list of notorious people or habitual offenders suspected for   of the area by the police. What’s more, cops issued   to the boy. The boy’s father has alleged that a   for removing his son's name from this list. This is third incident reported in Shahjahanpur where police issued summons to children under the section, usually invoked  . An inquiry has been ordered by the SP.
 
  According to the boy’s family he is so traumatized that he is unable to focus on his studies. His father told TOI, “My son is having nightmares thinking that he will be sent to jail.” He claimed that he had tried to explain the situation to the officer concerned but instead was asked to pay a bribe of Rs 15,000 through a sub inspector. “The same officer had threatened that he would arrest my son if I failed to give the money at the earliest. I have shifted my son elsewhere fearing police action.” It was then that he lodged a complaint with the superintendent of police.
  
  Prior to this, summon under   was issued to another 13-year-old and 15-year-old by   and   in August and November, respectively.
  
  According to sources, a resident of Banda, the class IX student had quarrelled with his school teacher in November and the latter had filed an   (NCR) against him at Banda police station. The investigation of the NCR was never completed but somehow the boy’s name was included in the notorious list of criminals by the cops who did not verify his age. His age was not stated either in the NCR or the FIR and it was not verified during investigation.
  
  
  SP, rural, RK Bhartiya, who has ordered an inquiry against station officer of Banda police station  , said, “This is definitely negligence on the part of the SO and I have ordered a probe into the matter. Action is likely against the SO section 110G summons were issued by him directly. We have recently reiterated that all SOs should be careful while issuing summons to culprits and ensure a thorough investigation of all complaints. However, the Banda SO didn’t take the briefings seriously which is really not acceptable.”
