BENGALURU: Emboldened by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's crackdown on meat shops and slaughter houses in his state, Bengaluru's self-styled cow protectors are planning to launch a movement against unauthorised meat shops. One gau rakshak outfit said there are 1,700 such shops in the city. 

  said they'll lay siege to the   (BBMP) headquarters and demand the closure of all unauthorised shops selling mutton and chicken. 
 
 The agitation is planned under the leadership of Ramchandrapura Mutt seer Raghaveswara Bharathi, who recently led a day-long protest against the upcoming abattoir in Harohalli near Kanakapura on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Various gau rakshak organisations, including the   and Karnataka Federation of Gaushaalas, have come together under the aegis of the mutt.
 
 "We're planning to lay siege to the BBMP office to launch our movement against unauthorised meat shops and beef outlets. As the Ramachandrapura Mutt Swamiji is leading the protest, the day of the protest depends on his schedule," said Sundarraj Pai, Karnataka state convener, Gau Samarakshana Prakoshta.
 
 Pai said according to data available with the Prakoshta, there were 1,700 unauthorised meat shops, apart from beef shops, in Bengaluru.
 
  He said the Prakoshta conducted a survey which found that there only 43 shops with a valid BBMP licence.
 
 Ramachandra Ajjakana, spokesperson, Ramachandrapura Mutt, said the mutt had appealed to the BBMP against the unauthorised meat shops in the city and its response is awaited. "The Swamiji has said he'd lead the protesters when they lay siege to the BBMP office. It all depends on the BBMP's response to our appeal. The plan for the agitation is being discussed," said Ajjakana.
 
 He added that the mutt's signature campaign against the Harohalli abattoir had got 19,000 signatures so far. The agitators are enthused by the news that Aditya Nath is scheduled to visit Karnataka in the near future as part of his tour to the Kadali Yogeswar Mutt in   which he visited regularly earlier.
 
 "We must take Uttar Pradesh as a model where meat shop owners are voluntarily closing their outlets. The meat merchants of Bengaluru must follow suit," said Karnataka Federation of Goshaalas' leader Gau Rakshak Raghavendra.
 
 The gau rakshaks said the high court had, in 1997, directed that slaughter houses and meat shops should be shifted to outside the city where human habitation is scarce. The verdict was in the case filed by environmentalist B Krishna Bhat against the then proposed abattoir near Tannery Road in the city.
 
 "The government must abide by the court order. Otherwise, people will be forced to take to the streets and that might create a law & order issue," said Raghavendra.
 
 
 
 
 Cow protectors seeking closure of illegal meat shops have put malls under their scanner. Sundraraj Pai said gau rakshaks have written to eight malls asking them to stop selling meat if they're selling it illegally. 
 
 "We want to find out whether meat trade at the malls is legal. We have asked them to apprise us. If the outlets are unauthorised, they should be closed," said Pai.
 
 He said in response to their letter, one mall had already stopped selling beef. 
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru development minister K J Geroge said the Congress government would never allow communal politics to thrive in Karnataka.
 
 "The BJP wants to replicate the Yogi brand of saffron politics in Karnataka ahead of the elections. That's why they're projecting the Ramachandrapura Mutt Swamiji as the leader of their protest. But our government will never allow communal politics to thrive," said George.
 
 Responding to the demand for closure of unauthorised meat shops, the minister said the government will look into the issue. "It's not just the meat trade, we will not allow any unauthorised business. The BBMP will take action against those running business illegally," George added. 
 
 
