NEW DELHI: Traffic in the capital almost came to a halt during peak hours on Thursday following the morning showers that added to the choas created by the   and Wednesday's massive road cave-in near the India Gate C-Hexagon-Akbar Road crossing. Snarls choked almost all arteries with bumper-to-bumper traffic on all connecting roads. 

 The police said areas like  ,  , Janakpuri, Okhla, Kalkaji, Mayur Vihar, Minto Road, Karol Bagh, Mahipalpur and Azad Market were the worst-hit. A tree near Sainik Farms fell during the showers, causing major traffic obstructions on MB Road. 
 
 Although NH-24 in east Delhi and   in Lutyens' Zone was the worst-affected due to the kanwariya processions, reports of such disruptions came from other parts as well. People said they were seen riding without helmets, jumping red lights, holding up traffic and causing disruptions as traffic police remained mute spectators.
 
 Traffic police said an advisory had been issued asking owners of non-destined heavy vehicles to stay away from Gurgaon and Delhi during the weekend till the waterlogging was brought under control. Cracks and potholes developed on several arterial roads due to the continuous downpour, further affecting the traffic.
 
 Several commuters took to social media posting photographs of snarls tagging the traffic police. Saawan Kumar, a commuter, said kanwariyas held up traffic on Ring Road near Sarai Kale Khan for nearly half an hour after some of them got off a truck and started walking on the road.
 
 Traffic movement was slow on NH-8 between Rao Tula Ram Marg and Gurgaon toll gate was affected as construction work on the RTR flyover led to waterlogging, slowing down traffic on Outer Ring Road. 
 
 With showers continuing well into the rush hour, civic bodies struggled to pump out water from flooded roads. Knee-deep pools caused several vehicles - including buses - to break down on crucial stretches. 
 
 Mehrauli, Govindpuri, Malviya Nagar and Adchini were the trouble spots in south Delhi. Other bad stretches between 8am and noon were Nehru Place, Modi Mill, Dhaula Kuan and ITO. The average speed of vehicles was reduced to 10kmph for more than fours hours even in the evening. 
 
 The situation in central Delhi improved slightly after NDMC finished repairing the road near India Gate. Officials claimed that due to rain, the soil sometimes loosens, resulting in caving in of roads. 
 
