By  

 In the American Kennel Club’s list of most trainable dogs, the   retriever ranks No. 6 due to its “gentle, friendly nature, and overall eagerness to please”.
 
 Unfortunately, Chewbacca, our hyperactive, somewhat maladjusted three-year-old, never got the memo. Don’t get me wrong. He’s the sweetest, friendliest dog you’ll ever meet. Let’s just say he’s unencumbered by the burden of intelligence. ‘Chewie’ consumes slippers, sunglasses and remote controls with the same level of gleeful enthusiasm he reserves for his kibble. He spends hours barking at his own reflection in the window, and is easily confused by the complex aerodynamics of fidget spinners. He’s also taught me things about advertising that an MBA, an MA and 15 years of work experience never did. Here are just a few.
 
 Focus on the big stuff (everything else is noise): Chewie can blissfully snore through the 90-minute cacophony of a   race, but mention ‘food’, ‘treats’, ‘out’ or ‘mamma’, and he’s on his feet in seconds. Dogs have an innate ability to tune out everything that doesn’t matter (which for them is most things). As advertisers, our tendency to focus on minutiae often leads us to lose sight of the big picture. Most consumers do not go through life waiting for the next big innovation in detergents or shampoos. They’re a bit preoccupied with a little thing called ‘life’. We need to focus on the big ‘WHAT’ instead of the little ‘how’.
 
 It’s not what you say, it’s how you say it: You could ask Chewie (as I often do) who the silliest dog in the world is, and be rewarded with bright eyes and a wagging tail. It’s a cheap trick, but one that never gets old, because dogs respond to tone, not words. Clients, consumer research and the desire to appear ‘new & shiny’ often lead us to prioritise left-brain rationality over right-brain emotion. The truth is that the world’s most iconic brands, from Nike to Dove to Apple to Coca-Cola, have all been built on the back of goosebumps-inducing, emotion-based advertising. Truly memorable advertising begins with one question: What do we want our consumers to feel?
 
 Loyalty requires time, effort and love: That dogs are the most selflessly loyal, loving and giving creatures in the world is hardly news. What is, however, is the level of investment required to form such a bond with your canine companion. There is a huge difference between ‘owning’ a dog and being a dog’s ‘person’. The latter requires a constant stream of time, love and attention, something many people are unable to provide. Consumer loyalty demands the same level of commitment from brands. Building a relationship with consumers is not just about having two big ‘bursts’ a year. It’s about constantly engaging with them, communicating with them, and making them feel loved and wanted. In today’s digitised world, personalisation has never been easier, and yet few non-service brands have looked at relationship building in this way.
 
 Consistency is everything: Chewie is a creature of habit. He responds to the same words, the same gestures, the same games. He hates change. But then, so do the rest of us. Which is why it’s imperative for brands to remain consistent in their approach to consumers. Consumers greet brands they love with the comfortable familiarity of old friends. Too many changes, either in product or in communication, shatters this relationship. For every inspirational quote trying to convince us that change is good, I’ll show you a suspicious dog, hesitantly backing away from a bowl full of a new brand of dog food he’s never tried before. 
 
 Most importantly – never take yourself too seriously: Labradors are the goofballs of the canine world. They’re big, they’re lovable and they’re silly. They’re not here to change the world, they’re just here to make your world a better, more emotionally fulfilling place. And ultimately, isn’t that what advertising is all about?
 
 (The author is executive planning director, FCB Ulka)
 
 
