THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The draft IT policy announced by   government has had a mixed response. While the   has enthusiastically welcomed the policy, observers in the sector and technocrats have called it vague and unrealistic.

 Interestingly, the opposing and supporting arguments are by and large centred on the same points. The main argument of the critics is that it touches upon a wide spectrum of areas and hence lost focus. Some critics feel the document misses out on major actionable policy plans and remains non-specific on many future interventions the government intends to undertake. While the IT industry feels the policy is proactive and realistic, others are accusing the document for harbouring vague and even contradictory ideas in an endeavour to straddle new terrains.
 
 “I appreciate the good intention of the government, but I really doubt the ground-level feasibility of most of the plans announced in the draft policy,'' said a senior technocrat who wished not to go on record about its merits or demerits.
 
 The policy, according to its key architects, was built upon the basic presumption that the state, through a set of citizen and industry specific programmes and policies, has reached a reasonably good position in terms of IT infrastructure, internetmobile penetration and a proentrepreneurship ecosystem, now reflected in start-up initiatives on campuses.
 
 “The draft policy touched upon a wide spectrum of areas only because the government is not inclined to limit the IT-driven or supported opportunities to just one or two areas.The objective is to enhance the efficiency of as many sectors as possible, with the use of IT intervention. Be it in traditional sectors, e-governance or newly emerging sectors, the objective should be to make use of IT to enhance efficiency levels in terms of service, product or its marketing in a most conducive and cohesive manner. The lucid structure, therefore would only act as a catalyst than a stumbling block,“ said a source privy to drafting process.
 
 The document is a general IT policy for five years. It has eight subpolicies, which would be revised every year, based on the needs.“Start-ups or even established companies can offer solutions to improve the efficiency of areas, including textiles, fisheries, cooperative sector and education,“ an official said.
 
 “The attempt to encompass a variety of issues and areas need not to be construed as being non-specific. It's rather intentional than accidental. It's not solutions that the policy tries to administer. It's has a broader framework, the nuances of which are subject to changes according to changing times,'' said IT secretary M Sivasankar.
 
 According to him, leveraging the existing IT and allied infrastructure facilities and expanding and improving it further to bring the benefits of IT enabled services to all sections in the society is one of the core thrusts of the document. It's in this context that the government plans to position Kerala as the first state in the country where access to internet would become the right of a citizen. Following the continuous governmental support, a number of startup companies have reached a position wherein they are capable of offering exciting solutions at a competitive price.
 
 Established companies would also be approached for customised digital solutions that could address the nagging problems faced by many government establishments, he added.
 
 “The single window portal would help a citizen to connect with all government departments and agencies through a single point,'' he said.
 
 The final policy is expected to be ready by the end of April, sources said.
 
