NEW DELHI: Congress has decided to field Khyala councillor   as its candidate in the crucial   bypoll. The election will be held on April 9, days before the capital votes to choose councillors for the three corporations on April 22. 

 The Congress decision, announced on Friday evening, reflects the party’s attempt to harness the support base that the Chandelas have reinforced over the years. While Chandela is a two-time councillor of Khyala, her husband Meghraj is also representing Vishnu Garden for the second time. Both these wards come under the Rajouri Garden  . 
 
 The seat fell vacant after AAP legislator Jarnail Singh resigned in January for contesting in the Punjab assembly elections. A victory in the bypoll will give the winning party some fodder for the civic poll campaign. While for AAP, the bypoll is a critical test of its popularity, for Congress, the outcome will be significant for its revival.
 
 If Chandela wins, she will be the first Congress MLA in the current assembly. The party got decimated in the 2015 elections. The election dynamics will become clear only after AAP and BJP announce their candidates. 
 
 The Chandelas derive their clout in the area from Dayanand Chandela, Meenakshi’s father-in-law, who had won both assembly and civic elections from this area as an Independent as well as on BJP and Congress tickets. His wife Dhanwanti, too, has won in the civic polls. 
 
 Dayanand, who has been with Congress for almost a decade, has not contested any election since 2013 as he has a criminal case for attempt to murder and house tresspass pending against him. He is now out on bail. 
 
 However, the party hopes to cash in on the Chandelas’ support base in the constituency. Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken said the party saw Chandela as a strong candidate. 
 
 The constituency is a mix of unauthorised colonies in Vishnu Garden, a resettlement colony in Raghubir Nagar, a urban village in Khyala, the middle class Tagore Garden and the upscale Rajouri Garden. The result, coming just before the municipal polls, will be showcased by the winning party as having a varied support base and, hence, as a reflection of the voters’ mindset.
 
 
