It was on December 27, 2016 that M T   released Thomas Isaac's book on the adverse effects of demonetisation. In his speech MT criticized the currency ban and compared   with Muhammad bin Tughlaq prompting Sangh Parivar outfits to target the  .

 Thomas Isaac on Friday compensated for the brickbats faced by M T by dedicating the entire budget speech to him. Isaac referred to MT a dozen times and touched upon his characters and works to set the tone for his budget speech.
 
 
 
 
 “Currency ban has made the lives of the poor and the ordinary people miserable,“ Isaac recalled MT's words while beginning his speech. He said it was a challenge to present the budget at such a time.
 
 While emphasizing the need for preserving the state's lakes and backwaters and announcing a project to save the Sasthamkotta Lake, Isaac quoted from 'Manju', MT's 1964 novel, which is set against the backdrop of Nainital Lake.
 
 The finance minister talked about MT's Muthachi in 'Nalukettu' while announcing several schemes, including a new pension scheme for the old. He referred to the circus artistes in MT's story 'Valarthumrigangal' as he talked about the scheme to provide financial help to retired circus performers.
 
 He blamed the Centre for the rice shortage and compared it with the stubborn 'Valyammavan' in `Nalukettu' who locks up the granary in his ancestral home.
 
 The Kuri scheme run by Amminiamma, a character in Naalukettu, was mentioned by Issac as he talked about the KSFE's Pravasi Chitty scheme to raise funds for the KIIFB.
 
 In Randamoozham, Gandhari's says: “All men in Kuruvamsa enjoyed seeing the tears of women.“ Isaac repeated the quote as he discussed women's safety. MT's descriptions of rain in `Nalukettu' and drought in `Vaishali' also found their way into the finance minister's speech while he touched upon the unprecedented drought situation in the state.
 
 When contacted, MT said he heard from others that his characters were referred to by the minister. “Since I have not listened to the speech, I am not in a position to make any comments“ he said.
 
 “The minister has read MT's works very closely and the references point to the fact that his characters and themes are relevant today,“ said writer and MT's cousin M T Ravindran. “Though there is a stream of romanticism in MT's works, he always based his works on concrete realities, which make them relevant even today,“ said writer K P Ramanunni.
 
