Mumbai: The government-owned   (AAI) has cut the February salaries of about 40 Mumbai officials by as much as 70-80% without issuing them any prior warning.

 All the 40 officials were transferred to Mumbai in the last few years from centres across India and many are posted as controllers at the perennially-short staffed Mumbai air traffic control. “On Saturday, when we checked the AAI employees’ services portal for our salary slips, we were shocked to see a meagre amount paid to us for the month of February,’’ said an official, requesting anonymity. In the salary slip, under the ‘miscellaneous recovery’ category were deductions that ranged from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.20 lakh. “About 70-80 percent of our salaries were deducted, with no reasons given,’’ the official added. 
 
 Late on Monday evening, the affected lot received an email, which said that the deductions were carried out because they had refused to move to the accommodation allocated to them. The AAI had wanted them to move residence to a hangar in Juhu airport. On June 28, 2016, TOI had reported that the AAI (which faces a shortage of staff quarters) had issued letters to about 40 controllers asking them to vacate the staff quarters and move to the Shobha Singh hangar in Juhu. The AAI had rigged 28 cabins of 100 sq ft area each within the hangar and each cabin was supposed to be occupied by two officials. “All of us are bachelors and so we are put in group accommodations where 6-7 of us share a quarter. We were in AAI quarters in Vile Parle then and given the condition of the hangar accommodation none of us moved in,” said a controller adding that on paper, they are each entitled to a 2 BHK flat.
 
 Despite several letters to the AAI grievance cell, the accommodation issue was not resolved and the controllers continued to stay in Vile Parle AAI headquarters. 
 
 “Then all of a sudden the salary cuts have come to punish us for not moving to the Shobha Singh hangar,’’ he added. K Hemalatha, regional executive director, AAI, western region was unavailable for comment. In December and January, 45 AAI staffers, including controllers and those who maintain the radar and navigation equipment, were transferred from other parts of the country to Mumbai into the said hangar. “But they knew nothing about this and so were cheated into staying there. But now they are moving out. We work in shifts and its not possible to sleep in the hangar accommodation since it’s close to the operational area of the Juhu airport,’’ said an official. One of the prime reasons why Mumbai air traffic control is short-staffed is because not many locals apply for the job.
 
