It doesn’t matter where you begin from; what matters is where you finish. That’s what Rasamalla Kirthi, Kiran Kumar, Raju, Adamaiah, Ashwini, Ajay, Krishna Reddy and Subhash, students of Telangana State Sports School (TSSS), who are vying for top honours at the ongoing  , prove. 
 
 Watching them make their presence felt in the Laser 4.7 category earmarked for those between 12 to 18 years of age, it’s hard to believe that just a couple of years ago they wouldn’t even have dreamt of sailing, much less compete with the best sailors in the country and be in the reckoning to represent India at the upcoming world sailing Championship in Thailand. 
 
 
 
 Take the story of 12-year-old Rasamalla Kirthi, the youngest of them, for instance. Until two years ago, sailing jargons such as ‘tiller’, ‘hull’ and ‘rigging’ were alien to Kirthi. Born to an auto-driver father and homemaker mother in Mahbubnagar, Kirthi joined the TSSS to train in gymnastics. But it was her coach   who realised that water sports was her true calling and got her to join the school’s sailing group and practice at the EMESA club in  . 
 
 “Today, my father is very proud of me. When I won medals in 2016, he was so happy that he went around telling everybody in Mahbubnagar about it. He is so confident about me winning a medal for the country, that it pushes me to give my 100 per cent every time I set sail,” says Kirthi, who won gold in the all-girls competition and bronze for her overall performance at the Telangana Open Regatta 2016. 
 
 
 
 The story of Kiran Kumar, a student of class VIII, is no different. The son of a lorry driver from Warangal, Kiran’s potential was discovered by his Physical Education teacher, who encouraged him to apply to TSSS. Once selected, he was attracted to sailing and there has been no looking back since. “My family has been very supportive. I love sailing. It makes me very happy. My dream is to make the nation proud of me,” says Kiran.
 
 Similarly, Ajay, also from Warangal, credits his school coach for believing in him. “My parents are farmers and don’t know much about sports. I was very good at sports in school and it was my coach who directed me to take it up seriously. I was drawn to sailing as I was always interested in water sports. I want to become a sailor and join the Navy,” says Ajay, who won a medal at the competition last year.
 
 
 Krishna Reddy, who used to play football and kabaddi in his village in Mahbubnagar, discovered sailing by chance. “When I was class IV I was enrolled in the government sports school in Kadapa. But post bifurcation, I was transferred to the school in Hyderabad. That’s when I got introduced to sailing and I’ve been hooked to it ever since,” he says. 
 
 Adamaiah from   and Subhash from Medak, both sons of farmers, today dream of joining the armed forces. Why? “I want to build strong muscles. That is why I want to enter the army,” quips Adamaiah, laughing. 
 
 Pointing out that hardly anyone in Hyderabad is aware of sailing. Krishna adds, “Internationally, sailing is a huge sport. But here, no one knows about it. If we win a lot of medals we can change the public opinion, say our coaches. Well, getting medals will also help us get good jobs later on. That is what the Army people who come here to the Club tell us. They are very friendly and encouraging. Earlier, we saw army jawans only on TV with guns in their hands. So when met them in real life, we were initially frightened of them. But now, if we need anything, we go talk to them and they always help us out. They are our good friends. That is why, we want to join the army and be like them.”
 
 Ashwini, the Class VIII, who is also in the fray gives all credit to her father, a daily-wager who encouraged her to the hilt. “I was an excellent athlete back in my school in Mahbubnagar. I especially excelled in running. My mother does not know much about these things, but my father used to support me a lot. One day, he saw a notification in the newspaper for admissions to the sports school. He got me to apply and I got selected. My coach motivated me to take up sailing. The first time, I was afraid of the water, but now, I love the feel of the wind in my hair,” says Ashwini. 
 
 unlike the other boys, Ashwini does not want to get into the army or navy. Her ambition is to work in the Indian Railways. Why Railways? “I don’t know,” she replies, with shrug, adding, “My father wants me to become a police officer, but I’ve always wanted to work in the Railways.”
 
 So how do they juggle academics and sports? “We never neglect studies. We are busy during the sailing season when we practise; but the rest of the year is dedicated to our academics at the school. Also, sailing helps us perform better at school. We are a lot more confident today,” says Subhash. 
 
 Giving a huge fillip to the sport of sailing and doing yeoman service for making more people take it up is the  . 
 
 “Sailing is an expensive sport, yes. But we hold four camps every year absolutely free of cost. As for the children, they are supported by both the government and us in all possible ways. Sailing is one of the most eco-friendly and relaxing sports. There is a perception that the sailing club here is for the army. No, anyone can be a part of it.” 
 
 Speaking about the Hyderabad Sailing Week, he says, “The response to the event has been growing every year. Rankings are given to the participants in these competitions on the basis of which, they get selected for international events.” 
 
 Sailing requires physical fitness, mental agility and a knowledge of the winds, waters and mechanics of your boat. as a sailor, one has to be strong enough to handle the boat and also be able to judge the wind velocity and its different variations. I am proud of our students as they work so hard! 
 
 Every year, I try and identify four children at the school and rope them into sailing. It gives me immense pleasure to see them enjoy the sport and it also acts a good platform for them to launch their careers in the future.— Mithun Chakravarthy, Water Sports In charge, Coach at TSSS. 
 
 — inputs: Debarun.Borthakur@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
