Mumbai: In an extreme case of business   that ended in a  , an   decorator was pumped with 17 bullets and his   partner was grievously wounded in the firing over a Rs 6.5 lakh contract on Tuesday. 

 Police sources said Kishor Chaudhari and partner Nitin Joshi, both aged 45, ran a firm called Sandeep Decorators in  , which recently got the interior   contract for a ground floor flat in Devi Shivamrut building, Balaji Nagar,  , near Dombivli. The main accused, Dilip Bhoir, had pitched for the contract, too. The Bhoir family allegedly claimed to have a “monopoly” in interior decoration and maintenance work in the locality. 
 
 Chaudhari’s family alleged that a day before the crime, Kishor had approached the local Ramnagar police saying the Bhoir family had threatened to kill both the partners if they did not stop work on the flat immediately. If the cops had acted on the complaint, the crime would have been averted, they said. 
 
 Cops said on Tuesday afternoon, Chaudhari, Joshi and four of their employees were at the flat when four members of the Bhoir family barged in with six bodyguards. They asked two of the staffers to leave. All four men of the Bhoir family allegedly took turns to fire at Chaudhari and Joshi with a licensed revolver. They forcibly took the other two staffers along with them when they fled. Their whereabouts are not known. 
 
 One of the two staffers who were let off, called up Chaudhari and Joshi’s relatives who rushed both to Shivam Hospital in Dombivli. 
 
 Chaudhari was declared dead on arrival and Joshi, who suffered a bullet injury in his chest, is critical. 
 
 Based on Joshi’s statement, Ramnagar police have registered a case under the Indian Penal Code sections for murder and attempt to murder as well as the Arms Act against Dilip Bhoir (51), brother Shankar (45), sons Sagar (23) and Suraj (21), and their six bodyguards. All the 10 accused are on the run.
 
 One of Chaudhari and Joshi’s employees told TOI: “The Bhoir family claims to have a monopoly in interior decoration and maintenance work in this area. They threatened our bosses on Monday saying they would visit the site and kill them if they refused to withdraw from the contract immediately. Our bosses therefore complained to the police. I was so scared that I did not report to work on Tuesday morning.”
 
 Mukund, Chaudhari’s nephew, said, “We are shocked that our uncle was killed and his partner is fighting for his life over a decoration contract worth just Rs 6.5 lakh.”
 
 Parambir Singh, Thane police commissioner, said, “Various police teams from the crime branch and local police, under the supervision of the additional commissioner of police, are investigating the case. The accused are known and our team will soon manage to nab them.”
 
 The locals TOI spoke to said the Bhoir family is influential and “well-to-do”. 
 
 Local corporator Shrikhar Chaudhari said, “I know both the families, including the Bhoirs, as both are locals. The brutality of the crime comes as a shock to me.”
 
