KANNUR: The police would seek the custody of Fr   alias   (48), who has been   and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. 

 The police are seeking his custody in order to find out if he has been involved in other similar cases and whether he was helped by others to hush up the case and to plan his getaway. 
 
 "We have formed a special investigation team, and will probe all aspects of the case. So far, we have not received any other  ," said Iritty DSP Prajesh Thottathil. He added that the vicar, who was suspended from St Sebastian Church, Neendunoki, near Kottiyoor in the district, has to be questioned in detail.
 
 Though there are rumours he offered Rs 10 lakh to the parents of the minor girl who got pregnant after the rape, the police have not been able to find any evidence. The plan, sources said, was to make the girl's father confess to the crime. However, the victim, who gave birth to a baby boy in a hospital in Koothuparamba, spilled the beans about the vicar to the police. Police said it was the vicar who footed the hospital bill and shifted the child to an orphanage in Wayanad with the help of a female church staff who was assigned duty at the hospital.
 
 Since the hospital failed to inform the police though they knew about the case, investigation is on to ascertain its role in the entire incident. If needed, case would be registered against the hospital authorities, police said. Though the vicar has been accused of fraud earlier, the church apparently kept quite even after the case became public and he was suspended from his office only after it was sure that the police would arrest him.
 
 "Immediately after the story broke, the vicar made efforts to escape to Canada but due to some technical issues he could not fly and the police were able to nab him. It is evident that he has high-level connections. We need to probe whether efforts were made to sabotage the case," said a police officer associated with the investigation.
 
 Many complaints were raised against the vicar but local residents were afraid to come out in open, said P K Sreemathi, MP. "I was told by the local residents that hundreds of girls have been sent with his help to different parts of the state and also abroad, after offering them job opportunities. Though they are all said to be working as nurses, the possibility of human trafficking has to be investigated," she said adding that the police should take action against the school under the church where the girl was studying and also against the hospital. 
 
