PUNE: Oil marketing companies and the   have not taken kindly to the decision of the Federation of   Dealers Association (FAMPEDA) to   on Sundays and work only from 9am to 6 pm from May 15.

 While sources in the Pune collectorate said the authorities could take possession of the pumps to ensure round-the-clock fuel supply to customers, those in the oil companies said action could be taken against the pumps for violating clauses in the Essential Commodities Act and the Dispensing Pump Selling License Agreement (DPSL).
 
 Sources in the oil companies pointed out that petrol and diesel were covered under the Essential Commodities Act. “In a monopoly market, the possibility of taking over retail outlet operations cannot be ruled out to ensure fuel availability to customers,” they said. The fuel sales per pump in Pune are approximately 277 kilolitres for both petrol and diesel.
 
 The sources said that only around half of the 568 fuel retail outlets in Pune district are expected to participate in the FAMPEDA protest to build pressure on the government to hike their commissions. They said the commission issue was being worked out at the highest level — the ministry of petroleum and natural gas — and several meetings have taken place between the Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers (CIPD) and the All India Petroleum Dealers Association (AIPDA). “FAMPEDA only represents Maharashtra while CIPD and AIPDA are national bodies representing petrol dealers,” the sources said.
 
 According to the sources, the ministry has assured that it would look into the demands of the petrol dealers. “Dealers want high commissions but the oil companies have to consider the consumers’ perspective too. The delay in resolving the issue is because of other government priorities like demonetization and the Ujjwala scheme, among others,” the sources said.
 
 The sources claimed that only around half the fuel retail outlets had participated in the May 10 “no purchase day” protest announced by petrol dealers in the state. They said the protest was confined to Maharashtra and the southern states of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. 
 
 Sources in the collectorate said they are in talks with the district authorities and the oil companies in Pune as well as in other districts of Maharashtra to plan a uniform action should the petrol dealers go ahead with their agitation. “One possible action being discussed is taking possession of the big petrol pumps,” an official in the collectorate said.
 
 A source in FAMPEDA said the dealers needed a quick assurance from the oil companies on the full implementation of the   committee’s recommendations. “The oil companies had earlier accepted the committee’s recommendations on a permanent mechanism to evaluate commission. 
 
 However, this mechanism was only partly implemented. Dealers in Maharashtra have been most affected by low commission rates as the state has high   and labour wages.”
 
