Moringa. A name that you will likely find on the ingredient list of an essential oil, a perfume, or a body moisturiser. But, did you know that you could also find it in your backyard?
 
  Standing at a modest 10-12 metres, the plain-looking Moringa oleifera, popularly known as the ‘mushing’ or the ‘drumstick tree’, is renowned the world over as the ‘miracle tree’. And rightly so. Every inch of the moringa — from its leaves, flowers and fruits (drumsticks) to its bark, roots and seeds — abounds with medicinal properties. For one, it contains 18 of the 20 amino acids — the building blocks of proteins — including the nine essential ones that the human body can't produce. It is also packed with  , protein, calcium, potassium, and iron, making it an effective solution for malnutrition, particularly among infants and nursing mothers.
  
  Researchers say few other floral varieties can come close.
  
  While the leaves and drumsticks are commonly used in a variety of dishes, it is the flower that makes a rare appearance in Goan cuisine. Creamy white with bright, yellow stamens, they are widely consumed in   for instance, and star in its local dish, ‘sojne phul torkari’ (Moringa blossoms curry).
  
  In Goa, one of the few preparations the small yet nutrient-rich flowers are used in is polle (rice pancakes).
  
  The process is uncomplicated. Soak rice in water overnight and grind to a fine paste the next morning. Add a fistful of washed moringa flowers to the batter, along with salt and some finely chopped onions and chillies. Using a ladle, pour some batter onto a pre-heated, greased skillet in a circular motion and fry for a few minutes before flipping the pancake over for uniform cooking. And voila! You have a simple yet power-packed breakfast food ready just like that.
  
   , an Aldona-based homemaker who often prepares these polle for her family, swears by the goodness of the moringa tree -— leaves, blossoms and all. “Its drumsticks, flowers and leaves are a great alternative for vegetarians because of their high protein and calcium content. They are particularly beneficial for lactating women,” she says.
  
  Incidentally, Goa’s warm temperatures and soil cover are conducive to the proliferation of the moringa. So, it might be a good idea to ditch those packaged health shakes and supplements and invest in a moringa sapling instead. In a few years from now, you'll have a treasure trove of nutrients and medicinal remedies right in your garden itself.
