VARANASI: Keeping up with the decade-long tradition sending out a heart-warming message of communal harmony, large number of Muslim women remembered Lord Rama and performed special aarti on the occasion of   on Wednesday. 

 The women, associated with   (MMF) and   (VBS), performed aarti and sang prayers in praise of Lord Rama at   area. 
 
 Shri Ram Maha aarti programme commenced with Ram Prarthna (prayers) scripted in   by MMF President Nazneen Ansari followed by Urdu version of Ram aarti, also scripted by Nazneen, that begins with ' Tilawat karte hai, har khaas o aam, rozana hum jinka, lete hai naam, rehem karne wale hain, wo hai karim, apne shree Ram, Jai Shree Ram (The one who is remembered by all and is a merciful and generous god, he is our Lord Rama)", recited the Muslim women, who were joined in by the Hindus. 
 
 "We have entered the 11th year of the tradition of performing Ram aarti. We have no hesitation in signing praises of Lord Rama, a Hindu deity, as he is the ancestor of all of us. Only by remembering and saying 'Ram naam' we can put an end to all the hatred and adversities. Since many Muslims find it hard to read in Hindu, I composed Urdu version of the prayer and aarti so that everyone can partake in it," Nazneen told to TOI. She has also translated Ramcharitmanas and Hanuman Chalisa authored by Tulsidas and also Durga Chalisa in Urdu. 
 
 The tradition dates back to March 2006 when a group of Muslim women led by Ansari thronged the famed Sankat Mochan temple following terrorist attack and recited Hanuman Chalisa and prayed for communal harmony.
 
 Founder and patron of VBS, Rajeev Srivastava came to the aid of these women after they expressed their desire to worship Lord Rama, the only name which can eliminate hatred from the world. The special aarti is performed on Ram Navami and Diwali every year, he said. 
 
 Peethadeeshwar of Patalpuri mutt, Baba Balak Das exhorted more voluntary organizations to come up with similar concept. "We need to end the differences between communities and it is only possible with involvement of everyone. There should be brotherhood and no malice," he said. Das also voiced his opinion on triple talaq issue and said that it should be scrapped. "Recently, a few Muslim women had met UP CM   and we are hopeful that the verdict would be out soon," he shared.
 
 
