VARANASI: The funeral pyre is set, logs and the dead fixed in their place at the holy   and the family of the deceased has climbed up several stones to fetch embers from the undying fire of Kalu Dom Raja, the legendary keeper of the holy flame.

 A dying Hindu may not find Moksh (release from the cycle of rebirth) unless the ‘untouchable’ Dom gives ‘mukhagni’ to the pyre, the scheduled caste   settled along the   and   in Varanasi, however, lives a secluded life.
 
 Sans any political representation and will from parties to work for them, the community feels it has lagged behind in education and employment all these years, facing discrimination and has jostled with age-old taboos for women, till date. According to 2011 Census, Uttar Pradesh has a population of 1,10,353 Doms primarily settled in Varanasi.
 
 “We are descendants of Kalu Dom Raja, the master of   after he had given away all his belongings from his kingdom to his family and clothes to sage Vishwamitra on the latter’s behest. He used to perform his duty as dom here in Kashi and so devoted was he to his work and to truth that even when his son Rohitdas died, he asked his wife for ‘karmdaan’ or tax for last rites. When she tore the sides of her sari to give the same, the Gods descended on to Earth grieving for Harishchandra. It was because of him that we came to be known even though the community has been doing so since time immemorial,” said Pawan Chowdhury, a Dom popularly known as ‘Doctor’ in the community.
 
 Some youth from the community have now taken up initiatives and are collecting funds from within the community. One such initiative is cremation of unclaimed bodies brought to the ghat. “The gadiyas who were put in charge by the police to dispose of such bodies would drag them down the steps leaving behind a trail of blood and drown them in Ganga given the limited money they got for the job. Three years back, we took over the task for free and now even the unclaimed bodies get ‘sadgati’ (respectful last rites),” said Pawan. 
 
 To shed the lowly tag and move up the social ladder, the youth have started a Ganga Aarti at the Harishchandra Ghat since February 1 to attract tourists. The ghats around the cremation grounds have also been taken up by the Doms for beautification setting up a flower garden.
 
 
