RANCHI: Within 24 hours after the   gave its nod to the draft proposal for the  , the opposition Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Wednesday demanded the government to include   in the proposed bill. JMM said although the party was not against the security of doctors it also wanted the   the interests of   as well.

 “We are not against any fraternity and believe that doctors must be protected against manhandling. But the kind of proposal that was placed before the cabinet for ratification indicates that instead of protecting the doctors the bill aims at preventing the damage of property of the medical institutions owned by private, big or small corporates,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. 
 
 Calling for a better draft of the bill that effectively prevents doctors and para-medical staff from the clutches of the hooligans, Bhattacharya said due to commercialisation of medical practices, patients and their attendants are often at the receiving end.
 
 “We had tabled a bill in this regard during the Hemant Soren government but after it was found to be inadequate, we decided to hand it over to the select committee for necessary suggestions. 
 
 “The government has not found it necessary to go through the recommendations of the select committee,” he said. Bhattacharya took a dig at the government for having limited control over private medical institutions, which according to him, charge exorbitantly to make quick money. “For the same kind of treatment and same nature of drugs prescribed to patients at two different nursing homes, the rate is different,” he pointed out. 
 
 Apart from JMM, outfits like Janaswasthya Abhiyan Sangharsha Morcha also protested the proposed bill and burnt copies of the draft bill at Albert Ekka Square in Ranchi.
 
  The protesters wanted the government to roll back the bill, which, they claimed, failed in protecting interest of commoners. “Instead of doctors, it is mostly the patients and their attendants who suffer because of careless treatment and hefty charges levied on them,” said one of the protestors, Bablu Munda. 
 
 
