CHENNAI: The   on Saturday shifted   returning officer   and posted  , an IAS officer, currently working as deputy commissioner in   as the new returning officer. A formal order shifting her to the medical education department was issued by chief secretary in the evening. 

 Padmaja Devi, an officer attached to the   was appointed returning officer on March 10 and she was in charge when the formal notification for the byelection was issued on March 16. Since then, 8 candidates have filed their nominations including P Mathivanan of the DMDK. Apart from Padmaja Devi, Tondiarpet tahsildar N C Sekar and special   of the social security scheme in Tondiarpet taluk S Madan Prabhu were appointed as assistant returning officers. They would continue in the posts.
 
 Asked about the reason for shifting Devi, a senior EC official said, "Some political parties were not happy with her appointment for the second time in the same constituency and wanted a change and considering their demand we have replaced her".
 
 On Thursday, the DMK represented by Rajya Sabha MPs T K S Elangovan, R S Bharathi and Trichy Siva met the chief election commissioner Nasim Zaidi and presented three sets of memoranda seeking transfer of Padmaja Devi as well as Chennai police commissioner S George.
 
 "Our main objection was that Padmaja Devi refused to take action against blatant violations of election rules during the 2016 assembly elections when the AIADMK candidate was J Jayalalithaa. We presented several proofs about the violations but the returning officer did not act. We did not want the same official to continue this time too and hence gave a representation," Elangovan told TOI from New Delhi.
 
 "In 2016 we told her that many outsiders were being brought in by the AIADMK to vote in favour of the AIADMK. But she refused to take cognisance of the charges," said Elangovan.
 
 About George, the party said the commissioner acted at the behest of V K Sasikala to keep the AIADMK MLAs confined at Koovathur. The DMK also accused him of unleashing violence on the last day of the jallikattu protest. 
 
