GURUGRAM: The   adopted for five villages in Gurugram, including Tajpur, Alipur, Dhaula, Harchandpur, and Rojkameo (Mewat) will be implemented in 100 more villages in the state under the adoption scheme initiated by President  .

 The President will be visiting one of the five adopted villages — Dhaula — on June 2, where he will inaugurate a secondary school and driving training institutes. He will also address the villagers. 
 
  “The President will be inaugurating these two projects, then the   model will be implemented in 100 other villages in the vicinity of these five villages,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, additional deputy commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 He added that over the last one year, different development works have been conducted in these villages with special focus on education, skill development, renewable energy and health. The same model will also be followed for the other 100 villages.
 
 Several private and non-governmental organisations are also working with government agencies in these villages. The secondary school being inaugurated in Dhaula, for instance, has been funded by Oil PSUs under their CSR initiatives.
 
 A few of the projects that were initiated in the five villages, including Dhaula, over the last one year include setting up of solar rooftop power systems, skill development centres, rural economic zone, ‘smart gram’ custom hiring centre and wellness centres based on Ayush. 
 
 Preparations for the President’s visit have, meanwhile, already begun and roads are being repaired and beautification drives being undertaken on the way to Dhaula. Last week, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar visited the village to assess the security for the upcoming visit.
 
 In July last year, the five villages were adopted, after which a team of officials from the President’s office visited the villages. Consequently, a ‘smart gram’ model was designed for the five villages and multiple projects were launched under constant monitoring of the President’s office.
 
 
