Armed with sassy one-liners, puns and pop memes, the Mumbai Police is the top gun of police departments on Twitter. They're not just keeping you safe, they're also keeping up with you on everything from Bahubali to Friends. The Mumbai Police has over 28 lakh   followers. Be like Mumbai Police? The   certainly wants to. 

  
  
 
  In comparison, the Delhi Police has a more regimented model of mostly retweeting news by the district police departments, and has 118K followers. Now, it has decided to perk up its Twitter game by outsourcing it to experts.
 
  Not just Mumbai Police, even the Bengaluru Police and   handles have more spark and followers than Delhi Police's. While Bengaluru has over 6.7 lakh followers, UP takes the third spot with over 1.6 lakh followers. UP Police's Twitter Seva was also given the 2017 Social Media for Empowerment Award recently.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 While Delhi Police's presence on roads can’t be ignored, its social media presence is just not at par and very far behind that of the Mumbai Police. Officials say that though they are gearing up for a revamp, they are not competing with Mumbai Police. "We'd like to clarify that we're not competing with the Mumbai Police. It’s not just about posting witty tweets, but about the engagement level with the public and quick response. We are ready to ensure that Delhiites can count on us," says an official. And they have even created a CountOnUs hashtag!
 
  Madhur Verma, PRO, Delhi Police said, "It's important for our tweets to be catchy and quirky so that more people share it. We will be using #CountOnUs, along with other hashtags like #antidrugs, #cybercrime, #childabuse and #drinkanddrive. A social media team is working with us and we will soon roll out our new strategy."
 
  
  
 
  
  #Smart scores over #Sober when it comes to scoring it with the hashtag generation
 
  
 When we asked the new managers of the Delhi Police handle about what was lacking in the account’s tweets, Ankur Pujari, whose agency will now handle the account, says, "The Delhi Police was busy doing its real job. Now we will work as their online extension." And do they have a target number of followers to achieve? Pujari says, "Initially, when we started planning, the conversation was about numbers. But we told Delhi Police officials that we are not here to show that we are better than the other police departments. The numbers are not difficult to get. We have to focus on generating helpful content for Delhiites. I can't share our strategy but we will work to come up with intriguing tweets."
 
  He adds, "There is no point in competing with the Mumbai Police. They are good at their job, and we should learn from them, improvise and reach that level. Instead of internal competition, we should all compete with the likes of NYPD (New York Police Department)."
 
  
  
 
 
 The Bengaluru Police has a better presence on Facebook than any other police department nationally, and the Delhi Police is also planning to take on that platform. But will their social media presence also extend to Instagram and Snapchat? Pujari says, "We can make accounts on all these platforms, but it's Twitter that will prove to be more useful. On occasions like the Republic Day, we can make short videos and put them on Instagram. We might also use YouTube to post videos, but Twitter is our main focus." However, both the agency and the police refused to disclose when the new avatar will be revealed. "We are almost there, tweets in the new format will be posted soon," was all we got.
 
 
 
