LAXMESHWAR(GADAG): Bharat Ratna awardee prof   opined that rural children are capable of speaking good English but they are deprived of opportunities.

 Before interacting with the students, he stressed the need for igniting scientific temper among rural students and said he wished to set up a   at Laxmeshwar.
 
 “Science is about understanding how man can create new ideas. While teaching science, the teachers should know the history of the science and how it has developed over the centuries. Physics was recognized as a separate branch of science in 17th century while Chemistry by the end of 18th century” he said. 
 
 He inspired students by saying that one need not be rich to get new ideas and innovations. “Most of the scientists like   and   were from poor families and they were not even in a position to pursue their education,” he added.
 
 Referring to India’s lacking in science and research, Rao, recalled the statement of CV Raman that India was still not in top at his age of 81. “I have to repeat the same quote that India is still not in top at my age of 83 ” he said.
 
 However, he wished that many Faradays, Newtons will emerge in India in future. “We cannot expect such achievers from cities like Bengaluru but surely from villages like Laxmeshwar. Poverty or geographical considerations do not matter. God will favour those who work hard. So don’t give up your desire and zeal” he said.
 
 He took an objection to parents who are influencing the choice of education of their wards keeping good salary in mind. “We should not worry about income as even fools get monthly salaries. We should stand by new ideas and innovations forever so that we and our country can taste success” he shared.
 
 Rao, who also taught at IIT, noted that today’s IIT students are not qualitative as they are being trained by coaching centres. `Most of the IITians are entrepreneurs and employees in US. If they had served here, India’s scenario would have been changed for better’ he opined.
 
 
