AJMER: A khap   imposed fine of Rs 11,000 on a family when their newly married daughter came to meet them in   village of   block. Reason for the allegation against the family is that it was ostracised and for not paying a fine of Rs 51,000 imposed by the panchayat. The family then moved to the court to register a case against the panchayat. But no action has been taken on then complaint which compelled the family to meet SP for justice on Wednesday. 

 Kalu  , a family member, said, “No one is allowed to talk us and we are discriminated in the village. We have fixed a marriage of our younger daughter and the panchayat members warned us not to marry my daughter as we are shunned from the community.”
 
 The family accused that one of the main members of the panchayat wanted to purchase their land but the family denied. Later, on January 5 a community meeting was called where a decision was passed that we are excluded from the community. “Now, no one invites us or come to our house. We are not allowed to purchase grocery and left with no social ties,” added Kalu.
 
 In their fatwah, the panchayat cleared that if anyone found speaking or keeping social knots with the family then they too will be fined heavily.
 
 To purify our family, they imposed a fine of Rs 51,000, “We are poor farmer and how wil we arrange such hefty amount,” said Bansi Kharol, brother of Kalu. He said the matter went worse when their newly married came to meet them and the panchayat imposed a fine Rs 11,000 on her. She paid it as she did not want to come out of the community and now we cannot meet her again,” further said Bansi.
 
 Later, the family approached the court which directed Sarwar police to register a case and investigate the matter but the victims alleged that nothing has been done in this matter. “We are fighting for justice and action against those who used community panchayat against us,” said a victim.
 
 Meanwhile, Sarwar police said they are investigating the matter but it got delayed as most of their staff was deployed in   Urs therefore, they need more time to investigate.
 
