When the song   released, not many expected it to be an instant hit. Dig a little deeper and you stumble upon the name,  , a Singapore-based musician, who has composed Yaayum, and the other songs in  . He started off as an independent artiste and has forayed into film music with Sagaa. Though born and brought up in Singapore, Shabir is not new to Tamil sensibilities, thanks to his mother, who is from Chidambaram. The musician talks to us about his next, how the music industries in India and Singapore are different and his friends in the industry...

 
 
 I wrote my first song when I was 12. It was in Tamil. I knew that the song was popular among my friends because they used to dedicate it to their girlfriends (laughs). My sources of inspiration are AR Rahman and Ilaiyaraaja. Later, I entered the independent music scene in Singapore. In 2005, I released my first album. After 10 years, I entered films. My first teacher was my brother, who listens to a lot of Malay songs, jazz, blues, English pop, etc. I learnt about charanam and pallavi from him. Those were my early lessons on song writing. I did a degree in music production and audio engineering in Singapore. I also learnt Indian classical music and lived in Chennai for a year. But I did all this over a period of time. I still have a long way to go in the field of music.
 
 
 
 I am happy that a film with new faces and a new music composer is doing well. And this is just the first song that is out. There is a contemporary folk number and a fusion rock. I have also collaborated with an orchestra in Hungary. The director is from Tanjore, so he wanted me to come up with some native sounds. It took a while for me to understand. Since I used to travel to India regularly with my parents, I am not alien to these sounds.
 
 
 
 World music is in the forefront of everything. Combinations are what matters. Singapore is a melting point of cultures. You get to hear to Chinese, Malay, Caribbean, African and different kinds of sounds. I am trying to use these sounds in Tamil songs and still make them sound native. I like taking a raga and using electronic music, too.
 
 
 
 I have Sangu Chakkaram that has stunt choreographer Dhilip Subbarayan. I have used a lot of South East Asian sounds in this one.
 
 
 
 Music director   and I have been friends for the past 10 years. We know each other from when he was in Singapore. If not for him, I would be lost as I don't know anybody in the industry. Santhosh is also very close. Murugesh, the director of Sagaa, has been of great help, too.
 
 
 
 Singapore is a small place. They don't have an industry and there is no economic engine there. You will only find a lot of independent musicians there. Music is passion and people use it as a means to escape from their mechanical life. But here, it is a business. Here, you have to submit things on time and everybody is constantly working. I am trying to bridge both.
 
 
 
 I think it is a very exciting time to be in Tamil cinema. Each composer is bringing in their own flavour. I don't see anyone as my competition. It is not a race for me. Everyone has their own journey, and I have mine. It's fine if it is a little slow, but I know I am making progress. That's what matters to me.
 
