Most Congress leaders of the city are a dejected lot after the drubbing in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections but first-time corporator   feels that all is not lost for the party. He toppled senior BJP leader Sudhir Raut from a BJP-dominated ward due to years of dedicated public service.

 Even before the election, Shelke had been in the limelight due to the various camps he organized for common citizens and the agitations he staged over various public issues. In fact, he has emerged as the most active Congress activist in the city. Sadly for the Congress, instead of promoting such an energetic party worker, most of the local leaders appear to be sidelining him.
 
 The young leader feels that Congress is on a downslide in the city because the established leaders have lost touch with the common people. “They come out of their comfortable homes once in five years. BJP can be defeated but the Congress party will have to a do a lot of dedicated public service. Moreover, we need to get the voters’ list corrected as our voters are missing,” Shelke said.
 
 He started his political journey under the tutelage of his father Baba Shelke, who ran a social organization Ghantanad. The diploma holder in mechanical engineering became the president of Yuva Ghantanad in 2009.
 
 He started with a bike rally to press for the demand of Maratha reservation and then switched on to holding camps to help common people in getting various government documents and benefits of government schemes.
 
 One of his pet projects is holding blood donation camps for government hospitals. Shelke believes that people should not donate blood to private hospitals as they make a huge profit out of it. “You get free blood from government hospitals by dialling 104 even if you are getting treated at a private hospital,” the corporator told TOI.
 
 Shelke organizes blood donation camps every 15 days in all the six assembly constituencies of the city.
 
 Another priority area of Shelke is creating awareness about government schemes among poor, who by and large don’t have any idea about them. He laments that public representatives belonging to all political parties don’t pay much attention to this. “Most corporators and MLAs don’t even know about all the schemes. Even if they do, they try to help only their voters,” he said.
 
 Shelke plans to force the municipal corporation for creating awareness about these schemes. “If the authorities can ply autorickshaws in the city asking citizens to pay taxes, why can’t they help the poor?” he said. He also plans to make them take action against big builders before removing hawkers.
 
 
