MUMBAI:   is making personal loans, ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 15 lakh, available to account-holders on all its  .

  The bank is using a combination of   (AI) and analytics to parse its savings accounts database to determine  .
 
 “Every account will be assessed for pre-approval. While having a salary account is not a requirement, such accounts usually fare better during the analytics because of the regular monthly inflows,” said Anup Bagchi, executive director, ICICI Bank. 
 
 According to Bagchi, ATMs are the most ubiquitous channel for customers and can dispense cash in an emergency. All the 13,900 ATMs would be extending this facility. Since disbursements would depend on eligibility, loans would not be a fixed menu option but would flash on the screen for eligible customers who use the ATM.
 
  was the early mover in automated lending. It was the first in offering pre-approved loans through net banking in February 2016. Since then, the private lender has extended this facility to ATMs as well. Now ICICI Bank is targeting scale in this business with a minimum loan size of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 ICICI Bank has 3.71 crore debit cardholders. However, not all will be eligible for loans. The number of eligible candidates would be gradually increased as the analytical software does its job.
 
 Interest on these loans will range from 11.5-15% for loans from one to five years. Since all customer details are already available with the bank, the account holder does not have to fill any forms but merely enter his PIN. “We have put all the complexity behind the machine to bring simplicity to the customer. This is similar to normal personal loans but the disruption is around delivery. There is no form filling or manual processing,” said Bagchi.
 
 The loan eligibility and the interest rate would vary from customer to customer and range from 11.5-15.5% depending on the analytics. The credit score is only one of the parameters that will be examined by the analytical engine. For instance, a home loan borrower with a regular track record might get a good deal even if his overall credit score is low. 
 
 
