I finished my education and moved to another city for a job. On the first day of my job, someone asked me where are you from and listening to my answer, he looked curious and then said, aahh, got it! You are from Dhoni’s town.
 
  Okay, so by now most of you must have guessed that I am from Ranchi, Jharkhand, this question was popped to me several times and every time I would get to hear is- .oh, okay! Dhoni’s town and believe me, even now if I tell people that I am from Ranchi..the reaction ranges from small town to Dhoni’s land.
  
  I have understood by now, all that people know about Ranchi is  . Yes, we all are extremely proud of him, but trust me guys that is not the only reason for Ranchi or more precisely for Jharkhand’s existence.
  
  Okay, so I don’t want to sympathise with Ranchi alone here…but I would like to bring out the notion that people commonly hold for these so called, " ".
  Some basic myths about the small towners are- they are assumed to be uneducated, they don’t know how to dress up., they have poor communication skills, they are not presentable, they lack confidence and that they have never had any kind of fun in life.
  
  But trust me guys, we have the most number of toppers, be it from engineering, medical, govt.services, not to forget sports persons hailing from small towns. We very well know about all fashion brands and trends, we can communicate better than any big city birdie, we are extremely suave, presentable and full of confidence.
  
  It is not that your demographical location defines your personality, your character or your brain leave as it is purely an individual thing.
  
  You be what you choose to be.
  
  But yes, I do admit that there are certain advantages associated with big cities and especially with the availability of amenities, but growing up in small town has it’s own flavour, your entire colony becomes your family. If you bunk school for few days..your teacher drops in at your home to check on you, you don’t have to travel miles to attend classes or for work, you can get home early and enjoy time with your family than simply wasting hours by honking in traffic, you win a small competition or big you are in the papers and the entire town cheers for you. You grow up among people, who are grounded and value their traditions.
  
  So, next time when you meet people from so called small towns, don’t look down upon them, instead envy them as they have the most peaceful life that every big city human craves for.
  
  Please keep in mind the fact that geographies don’t define your personality.
  
  
 
  
