The team of today’s release,  , visited the Bangalore Times office recently for an interaction that was like none other we have had so far. Actors   and Aditi Prabhudeva, and director R   were in for a surprise when they faced a volley of questions in our rapid fire round. What followed were many minutes of laughter and some rather interesting answers. Here’s how it all went down…

 
 
 LOVE
 
  Mother.
 
  Mother.
 
  Krishna.
 DHAIRYAM
 
  Sarvatra sadhanam.
 
  Me.
 RAIN
 
  Shiva (the director).
 
  My wedding.
 
  Romance.
 CANDLE LIGHT
 
  Waiting for my boyfriend.
 
  Waiting for electricity to come back.
 
  First night? (everyone laughs)
 BEACH
 
  Loneliness.
 
  Long walks.
 
 Cool breeze and relaxation.
 
 
 
 
 Not me? The most entertaining girl in the world!
 
  (laughs) I won’t ever go to a deserted island.
 
  I will answer for him. He will take his mother and wife, and a bottle of beer.
 
  I’ll take my phone and internet — no people, just gadgets.
 
  I would take my mother, my future boyfriend and some musical instrument.
 
  I will take my producer, a pen and paper. It will be quiet, making it a perfect place to write a script.
 
 
 
 
  Yes Kajol; she’s Ajay Devgn’s co-star, so… (laughs). Apart from her, no one.
 
  Ya (points at Ajai). I’m a very frank and open person (laughs).
 
 
 
 
  I wouldn’t be born.
 
  I’m an engineer, so I would be working in some company.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  I would change my personality. I will talk more and open up about my feelings.
 
  I would fall in love with myself.
 
 
 
 
  I have no pickup line.
 
  No one has used one on me. But if I had to use one, I would say I love you; I would be direct.
 
 
 
 
  Prabhas! And in Sandalwood, Darshan.
 
  Aditi Prabhudeva.
 
 
 
 
  All of them. I’m the best hero.
 
 
 
 Many things. I have started saving money now. I don’t run behind money, but I do think about it now.
 
 
 
 
  I wouldn’t want to go on a date with any of them.
 
  You can add one more name to that list — Ajai Rao.
 
  OK, I would pick Ajai sir or Darshan.
 
 
 
 
  Hosa Belaku Moodutide.
 
  Nagu Nagutha Nalli.
 
  Hosa Belaku Moodutide.
 
 
 
 
  Rishtey mein toh hum tumhare baap lagte hai! (laughs) Amitabh Bachchan.
 
  I love Kalpanaji and now,  . I respect her a lot.
 
 
 
 
  My room, a candle in the middle of the room, beautiful music and my boy.
 
  The same, seriously! It’s a coincidence.
 
 
 
 
  No one. I am satisfied with all that I have. But I do wish that I could be like Amitabh Bachchan. He is the sexiest man on Earth. Of course, for the next gen, god has given Ajai Rao (laughs).
 
  No one.
 
 
 
 
  I am zero when it comes to politics, management and leadership. I think our current PM is the best. Nothing can be done in a day. I would only be able to sign my post, sit in my seat and take selfies.
 
  I also wouldn’t be able to do much in a day, but if I could, I wouldn’t want there to be any differentiation between people. I would ensure that everyone’s equal.
 
 
 
 
  My all-time favourite superhero is Superman. When I was a child, I would tie bed sheets and towels on my shoulder and try to fly like him. I still wear Superman T-shirts and caps.
 
  I play a nagin in   and dream that one day I can be my character in real life.
 
 
 
 Radhika Pandit and Aditi. I really like Aditi’s presence on the set — she’s very lively and easily transforms from being naughty off screen, to serious when she’s on camera. One needs to be active on the set and that charm carries onscreen. I have seen that in Radhika and Aditi.
 
 
 
 
  Ajai sir — I will do whatever it takes and make him a talkative person. I would also take Tejas sir (the director), since he is a sweetheart. Apart from them, Radhika Pandit and Prabhas. That’s it.
 
  Not Yash?
 
  No. He is bhaava (brother-in-law).
 
  I would never got to Bigg Boss. Not even in my imagination.
 
 
 
 
  The mindset of producers. In our state, there is an audience for films of all languages. To compete with them and make films of large budgets is worth lauding, but producers shouldn’t just think of the market while backing films. Before Taj Mahal, I was a flop hero. I did small roles in films that barely ran for 2-3 days. Only after all that did   happen to me, which became a huge hit. So, the content, the makers and the whole team matters for a film, not just the market. A kingmaker is more important than the king, and the producers have the capacity to make more kings. They must concentrate on content.
 
  I think makers should give opportunities to   actors.
 
  Yes, and to Kannada directors. We have a lot of local talent, and our industry will only reach greater heights with them.
 
