AURANGABAD: The three-member committee appointed by the municipal commissioner on Wednesday began its inquiry into submission of bogus bills by private contractors with forged signatures of civic clerks.

 As a precursor to the inquiry process, on Tuesday night, the municipal commissioner had sealed the accounts department to ensure that the concerned files were not removed, as he suspected the involvement of insiders in the scam. However, on Wednesday, the civic chief unsealed the department to extract crucial files.
 
 Confirming the development, chief accounts officer   said, a private firm, outsourced by the civic body, allegedly forged signatures of civic officialsclerks to municipal commissionerin its bills worth Rs 9.97 lakh and Rs 6.67 lakh. The bills were submitted around 10 days ago for completing fogging and pest control work in   area. 
 
 The bill states that the work was completed in 2012, but it was submitted to the civic body recently. It was approved by different departments, including the municipal commissioner .
 
 The firm had allegedly created a file with fake signatures of the clerk, medical officer, health officer and even the municipal commissioner  . The file was submitted on November 11, 2015 to the municipal commissioner, who had also ‘duly signed’ and passed it to the accounts department on January 3. 
 
 Pawar grew suspicious as Bakoria generally does not take long to sign a file. Pawar refused to issue the cheque and sent it back to the department concerned, questioning the delay in submitting the file to the accounts department. 
 
 Pawar was then informed by the health department that they had never moved the file. Suspecting foul play, Pawar communicated the entire episode to Bakoria. The municipal commissioner appointed a three-member committee headed by the chief auditor to look into the whole affair as further inquiries had revealed that in the past, the firm was paid by the civic body in a similar fashion on several occasions. On Tuesday afternoon some corporators had also made a representation to the municipal commissioner demanding an in-depth inquiry into the whole affair.
 
 Meanwhile, some more cases involving use of forged signatures of civic chief and other authorities to siphon off civic body funds came to the fore, Pawar said. Following which the municipal commissioner issued an order to seal off the entire accounts department, around 9pm on Tuesday. 
 
 The commissioner has also ordered an inquiry into the bills involving the pest control activities since 2012, sources said.
 
