Thane: Even though the   (TMC) threw open the Shahid   Sports Complex for budding sportspersons in the city five years ago, it has restricted parents of these children from parking their vehicles inside the premises.

 While the   club was initially opened for civic employees and corporators, it was made accessible to the public in 2011 with the intention of boosting the sports culture in the city.
 
 However, despite paying a fee of approximately Rs 4,000 to use the sports facilities, the parents of these badminton and tennis students have been forced to park their vehicles along the service road and not inside the sports complex.
 
 Meena Saha, a Hiranandani Meadows resident who drops her seven-year-old daughter at the sports complex for tennis class thrice a week, said, “My daughter loves playing tennis and so got her enrolled at the sports complex. I used to park the vehicle in the compound of the sports complex and watch her play during her hour-long class. However, over the last few months, the civic officials have restricted our parking inside the premises Due to this, many times our vehicles have been towed.”
 
 Like Saha, other parents, too, echoed the same problem. “We pay close to Rs 4,000 for the facilities at the club but we are still treated like outsiders. Every batch brings in hardly three to four cars in the compound. We cannot be that much of an inconvenience for the civic officials,” added another parent.
 
 Sameer Waare, the tennis coach at the complex, said, “We have four batches daily and seven to eight students in each batch. We keep receiving complaints from parents, but cannot do anything as it is the corporation’s decision.” 
 
 While these parents assert that they have a right to park within the premises of the sports complex, officials claim that they had to restrict parking because parents would end up leaving their vehicles at the complex and go to the mall. “We have had a number of incidents wherein the parent would leave the child at the class and go shopping, resulting in piling up of cars in the complex. This would cause inconvenience to others,” said a TMC official.
 
 We have had a number of incidents wherein the parent would leave the child at the class and go shopping, resulting in piling up of cars in the complex. This would cause inconvenience to others
 
 
