Mumbai: The BEST administration on Sunday drafted a “stringent” plan which includes hiking the   fare in the band of Rs 2 to Rs 4, scrapping 284 air-conditioned (AC) buses, freezing recruitment (except for drivers/conductors).

 The new plan will come up for clearance at a special BEST committee meeting scheduled for Thursday. 
 
  BEST general manager Jagdish Patil had discussed the issue with civic chief Ajoy Mehta and group leaders of parties on Saturday. The final call to go ahead with the proposal was taken on Sunday, sources said.
 
 A fare hike means an increase in the minimum fare to Rs 10 from Rs 8. However, it needs the go-ahead from the civic House, state government and MMRTA.   rights activists have opposed any hike in fares, saying that the quality of the service should improve first. “At many bus stops, commuters have to wait for nearly 20-30 minutes for a bus to arrive,” said activist G R Vora.
 
 BEST committee member Ravi Raja said AC buses need to be phased out gradually. “AC buses are incurring losses to the tune of Rs 82 crore towards maintenance each year. They are white elephants...and in most buses, you will find just one or two passengers,” he added. 
 
 A senior officer from the transport wing said that the plan was to weed out AC Cerita buses and replace them with minibuses. A plan to procure 50 AC minibuses at a cost of Rs 25 crore is being proposed. “The minibuses will have limited seating capacity and will therefore not run half-empty as is the case with existing AC buses,” he said.
 
 Officials plan to operate limited number of AC routes to cater to officegoers during peak hours and the new proposal also mentions cutting down 150 loss-making routes in the city.
 
 Under the new proposal, the undertaking is keen on “wet-leasing” new buses, axing special allowances to staffers, removing the subsidies unless those that are funded by the   and increase fares for students who get concessions. “We have 1,587 employees retiring this year, and there will be no new recruitment. The only new recruits will be drivers and conductors who are essential workers,” said a senior official.
 
 The transport undertaking plans to introduce an app that will display the   information system. “We plan to instal e-indicators at bus stations to provide the estimated time of arrival,” an official said.
 
