NEW DELHI: The police are probing to ascertain whether the   on Delhi BJP chief   Tiwari’s residence was  . 

 Meanwhile, five more people were arrested in connection with Sunday night’s incident. A total of seven accused, including two brothers, have been landed in police net so far. 
 
 Apart from trespassing into the MP’s residence at North Avenue, the group of men had allegedly hurled abuses at Tiwari’s staff. Cops have added a section of rioting to the existing FIR. Charges of promoting enmity between two groups could also be added to it. “Initially, it appeared to be a case of road rage. Now, we suspect that the suspects held a grudge against  . If they had found him, they would have attacked him,” said a senior officer. 
 
 Police said that none of the accused were drunk when the incident took place. DCP New Delhi B K Singh indicated that the attack could be premeditated given the manner in which the men had entered the bungalow. CCTV footage showed two men approaching the bungalow on foot and attacking Tiwari’s cook Ashok Pathak. Soon after, two more on a bike join them.
 
 Within a few minutes, they called in more people, who arrived in a mini truck and surrounded the bungalow as if they came to commit a were a heist. Some of them entered the house with iron rods and sticks while the others kept a watch standing outside. During this, the men had hurled abuses at the MP, who was not present on the spot, and his aides.
 
 Police said that Jagdish, one of the accused, worked as a cook at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. They were accompanied by Sunil Kumar, a resident of Uttam Nagar who was staying with his relative on the Rashtrapati Bhavan premises. The others accused, Pradeep Kumar, Om Prakash and Parshu Ram were neighbours of Jagdish when he was staying in west Delhi before moving to the President’s Estate.
 
 Tiwari had handed over the footage from the CCTV cameras at his house to senior police officers who had visited the premises after the incident. Cops are looking for more people who seem to be absconding following Tuesday’s arrest.
 
 Meanwhile, the family members of the accused have sought an appointment with the MP to apologise for the incident.
 
 
