PUNE: If one goes by   state unit president Raosaheb Danve’s statement, apart from acing the civic polls, the political party has a huge task cut out for itself to “mould” candidates with   and make them “good” people. 

 Across the state, as the party continues to open its doors to candidates with criminal records for the ongoing municipal and zilla parishad elections, Danve and BJP ministers have worked on a defence. 
 
 “We take people as they come and we mould them into good people,” said Danve recently while in Pune and expressed confidence that after election all those who have joined the party recently will understand and adopt its culture. 
 
 State cooperation minister Subhash Deshmukh added that people make “some mistakes” but they must not be punished forever. “The party will not support any criminal activity. At the same time, we are working towards replacing ruling parties that have been in civic bodies for years. We have two targets: first, to come to power, and, second, to change people (those with a criminal background), who have joined the party,” he said in Solapur, where candidates with such a background have made it to the party’s list. 
 
 Former chief minister and Congress leader   made a caustic remark against Pune BJP leaders. “If they feel that they will win elections by bringing in criminals, we are strong enough to deal with them,” he said while launching the party’s campaign in the city. 
 
 Rane added that BJP was trying to grab power in civic bodies using foul ways. “Puneites have to decide if the city belongs to cultured people or to criminals. Even RSS leaders are unhappy with BJP for nominating and supporting criminals in the elections,” Rane said. 
 
 Recently, BJP leaders from the city had landed CM   in trouble after they introduced him to Pune gangster Baba Bodke and a photograph taken at the meeting went viral. Another image showing Dinesh Dhadwe along with Pappu Gholap and Shyam Shinde with Fadnavis, Danve and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Kakade created furore as the three face serious criminal charges. The party has also welcomed Vitthal Shelar who faces serious criminal charges.
 
 RSS insiders stated it held a series of meetings and was divided regarding BJP’s changing face. One faction prominently comprising senior RSS leaders has insisted that the BJP must be allowed to carry on its own politics and the Sangh must not meddle. Younger representatives of the RSS are entirely supportive of the BJP. “They insist the party must come to power and cleanse itself of criminal elements. As of now, gaining power is important,” said a scribe close to Sangh circles.
 
