NAGPUR: “The success of any idea lies in the untiring efforts and time which you put in developing it. You must have the desperation and hunger to materialize your plans efficiently,” said widely followed motivational speaker and writer  . 

 She was speaking on ‘The X factor needed to succeed as an entrepreneur’, at an event organized by Entrepreneur Forum of Vidarbha Industries Association at Udyog Bhavan, Civil Lines, on Saturday.
 
 Present on the dais were chairman of the forum Akash Agrawal, coordinator Anita Rao, president VIA Atul Pande, vice-president   and secretary Suhas Buddhe.
 
 Rashmi is an entrepreneur and a youth expert. She said, “You must listen to your inner voice to unlock your potential and discover yourself. Strive hard to execute the thoughts in your head and this will bring you immense peace of mind.”
 
 During the open session, Bansal urged people to invest time in something they love without expecting any results. She said, “Malcolm Gladwell insists that 10,000 hours is the magic number of greatness. You must utilize 10,000 hours of your life following your passion with strong persistent desire. It might not give you fruits immediately, but undoubtedly you will have them one day. All established personalities, be it   or Sachin Tendulkar, have their back stories too.”
 
 She said, it’s never too late for women with ideas to start up a business. She said, “For Indian women, it can be quite a strenuous task to manage both family and career, but it’s not impossible. You have to start a new life and experience the pleasure. The latest trend adopted by many women entrepreneurs is involving their family to scale up their business. Sharing of ideas, contacts and collaborative efforts are proving to be a boost for start-ups.”
 
 Bansal advised not to settle for mediocrity. She said, “You must hold high regards for yourself and never judge yourself based on other’s negative opinions.” She also added, “If you enjoy your activity then the journey itself will be a bliss and you will keep away from disappointment.” 
 
