Panaji: The tripartite tussle between Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka over sharing of River Mhadei’s water took another turn with experts from Goa’s team pointing out contradictions in the claims of Karnataka’s rainfall data. Sharing the latest from the ongoing cross examination of Karnataka’s prime witness A K Gosain, additional chief engineer, water resources department, P J Kamat told TOI that they found contradictions in the data supplied in 2015 and now. “Our legal team would complete the cross examination of Gosain in the coming two days following which the tribunal’s panel would get its chance. So far, his answers have not been conclusive and we have noted glaring contradictions in the rainfall data. He has submitted three documents to back his claims about the rainfall data, but there is huge difference in them,” Kamat said, adding that the testimonies on the rainfall data forms the basis for the discussion on quantum of water available in the river. Gosain was cross examined by senior counsel for Goa government Atmaram Nadkarni and Goa’s advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande. The ongoing hearing is being conducted to resolve the different claims of quantum of water available in the Mhadei river. The major dispute between the three states has been over this issue only where Karnataka and Maharashtra have claimed abundant availability of water which can be shared respectively. “Goa government has challenged that claim. Karnataka and Maharashtra’s claims are based on the rainfall data given in the central water commission report of 2003. We have conducted our own independent study,” Kamat said, adding that both the states are trying to showcase an increase in the quantum of water in the Mhadei river. Due to the reliance on the same reports, members from Goa’s team indicated that it is likely that Maharashtra would not cross examine Karnataka’s claims in the current round of hearing. For the current issue, the Karnataka government has two witnesses whereas Maharashtra and Goa have one each. Following the conclusion on the quantum of water available in the river, the tribunal will take up other topics of contention such as forest and wildlife along the river basin.