The O Panneerselvam (OPS) faction was contesting in RK Nagar bypoll only to help the DMK win, said AIADMK (Amma) faction deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran. In an interview to  , he said the  's decision to freeze the ' ' symbol was partisan. He said he would retrieve the symbol after registering a resounding victory in   Excerpts: 

  
 
 
 The campaign is going on successfully, especially after the release of our election manifesto on March 27, incorporating all the demands made to Amma by the local people. Voters are aware that the party in power alone will be able to deliver. I have confidence that a huge mandate will help me retrieve the 'two leaves' symbol frozen due to the conspiracy hatched by the DMK leaders and OPS. I see my support increasing with every passing day. Having won Periakulam LS seat and seen several elections, I can tell you that I am gaining huge support.
 
  
 
 
 As I am the candidate of the ruling party, people know that I can make R K Nagar a model constituency in the country. After two months of research, we have evolved a housing scheme to benefit 57,000 families through housing and slum clearance boards. Each beneficiary will get a 500 sq ft unit. I will seek re-election in 'two leaves' symbol from here only after construction of these units in four years. We are evolving plans to get rid of a 350-acre dump yard near Korukkupet by making energy from waste. Mega job fairs, a world-class fishing market, super specialty hospital, polyclinics and mobile hospitals are other promises.
 
  
 
 
 No doubt, the DMK. Our party was founded by MGR to remove an evil force by the name of Karunanidhi. Amma too travelled on the same path. It is our stand to eliminate the DMK from TN politics. OPS is not at all (a rival).
 
  
  
 
 It is an experience in politics, and we have undergone this during Amma's time too. Freezing of the symbol is a temporary setback, and I am confident that I will retrieve the symbol after a resounding victory in R K Nagar. The election commission is biased and has adopted different yardstick in the case of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. We will counter the panel's verdict legally. Despite submitting documentary evidence to prove that elected representatives and office bearers stand by us, the commission acted in a biased manner and froze the symbol.
 
  
 
 It is our democratic duty to point out mistakes. The OPS camp thinks that freezing symbol -- the plot of DMK -- is a big victory for them. Take it from me, it will be over in 15 days. OPS group is contesting in R K Nagar only to help Stalin's party win R K Nagar. But we will sweep the polls by destroying the OPS-Stalin combine.
 
  
 
 
  No, no. I, myself have told many a time that I am her candidate. You see, this is Amma's constituency and she was the CM; that is the reason why we propagate her schemes. Whereas, Chinnamma (Sasikala) is only general secretary of our party and does not occupy any government post.
 
 
