KOTTAYAM: The municipal budget for the year 2017-18 presented on Monday gave priority for housing and  . Vice-chairperson,  , unveiled the surplus budget expecting a revenue receipt of 178.88 crores and an expenditure of Rs 156.17 crores, with a surplus of Rs 22.70 crores. 

 It revised the income estimate for the financial year 2016-17 to Rs 101.16 crores and expenditure of Rs 60.29 crores, with a surplus of Rs 40.87 crores.
 
 The issue of parking was addressed in the budget. “An amount of Rs 1.20 crores will be provided for the initial work of constructing a multi-storied parking plaza at the old vegetable market in the town, said Jancy Jacob. The work will begin this financial year itself," she added.
 
 The budget also provides Rs one crore for the renovation of the new vegetable market in Kodimatha.
 
 The budget has provided Rs 10 crores for various drinking water projects which include setting up of reverse osmosis desalination plants in 10 municipal wards. Recharging wells and ponds using rainwater to develop them a source of drinking water is also included under this project.
 
 The budget also provides Rs 10 cores for providing houses for the homeless with the aid of the Centre's   and state government's LIFE mission. The project also includes building flats for the landless.
 
 The municipality will also promote organic farming and use vacant land in the municipal region for farming, with the help of Kudumbasree units. Projects will be launched for distributing saplings and terrace farming. The budget provides Rs 4 crore for this.
 
 The budget provides Rs one crore for starting four plastic shredding units in the municipality. A fund of Rs 20 crore was allotted for renovating the roads in the municipality. The bus terminals at Nagamabadom, Thirunakkara and Thiruvathukkal will be renovated and a fund of Rs 60 lakhs was allotted for this.
 
 A fund of Rs 50 lakhs was provided for a Shopping complex cum bus bay at Kanjikuzhy in the land where the market is located now.
 
 In another major move, a fund of Rs 1.25 crores was provided for launching the second phase of construction of the Rajiv Gandhi Shopping Complex.
 
 The budget also mentions about developing Manipuzha-Erayilkadavu canal as a tourist spot by dredging the canal.
 
 A shelter home will be constructed for Rs 1.25 crores in the land owned by the Municipality in Panachikkad Panchayath.
 
 A fund of Rs one crore is provided for a modern morgue in the   here.
 
 In a unique move, the municipality will levy 'vacant plot cess' from this financial year. The move is to avoid plots which are not properly maintained by the land owner resulting them becoming breeding ground for mosquitoes. If these plots are given for farming to kudumbasree units or for any cultural or sports activities in the region, the land will be exempted from the cess.
 
 
