MUMBAI: Even as the board is baffled over circulation of question papers on WhatsApp, city principals and   have raised a basic concern — over the sanctity of examinations. While most do not have direct solutions to the problem, they advise stricter rules and restoration of the value system and integrity among exam conductors. They also suggest use of technology to counter problems created by technology.

 On Monday, Uday Nare, a former member of the state board committee and a teacher at  , suggested that the board make note of students who enter exam halls late. The board accepted the suggestion and issued a circular to that effect. 
 
 “The source of the malpractice is difficult to trace but the board can keep a track of students who are regularly late and could be taking advantage of circulation of the (exam paper) images. Students also need to be reminded about repercussions of cheating during exams,” said Nare.
 
 Principals said if the police find the involvement of exam conductors and take strict action against them, this could serve as a deterrent. “We visited several centres in Malwani, Malad (East), as part of a flying squad to check on malpractice but could not find mobile phones on anyone. But that does not rule out misuse. Police and board officials need to ensure strict action against those who are caught to discourage malpractice,” said Suresh Nair, principal, Vivek Vidyalya, Goregaon. 
 
 Some educationists, though, said that only technology can deal with problems created by technology. 
 
 “The state board has to use technology to tackle this problem. They could look at digital delivery and multiple question sets of the same difficulty level for every division or, if possible, even at a more micro level,” said Vasant Kalpande, former chairperson of the board.
 
 At places where technology is still a luxury, teachers said supervisors should be assigned to unfamiliar exam centres. “A lot of cheating takes place due to pressures on exam officials from locally influential people. This can be curbed if teachers are assigned exam centres outside their cities. Also, the state needs to take off the pressure from improving their pass percentage so that students are more carefree,” said Sachin Joshi, a teacher in Yavatmal.
 
 Principals from other boards called it a trust and integrity issue. Avnita Bir, principal, R N Podar School (CBSE), Santacruz, said, “As the education system relies a lot on technology, confidentiality and work ethics start mattering so much more. Once we compromise, the next time, succumbing to a temptation doesn’t feel like a compromise. So yes, it’s all about our value systems and work ethics.”
 
 Some others said the board needs to correct its ways. Coaching class owner Narendra Bambwani said, “The board ought to ensure that rules are followed in appointing exam conductors and other personnel involved. In many a centre, senior students are asked to assist in exam work.” 
 
 Experts said that the emoluments paid by the board are a pittance and hence several teachers don’t participate in exam duty.
 
 
