NAGPUR: Emergency medical services (EMS) are being hampered at the   as stretchers used in the ‘108’ service ambulances are held up for extended periods of time.

 Soon after the ambulance brings a patient to the hospital, it is supposed to be released after admitting the patient to the casualty ward. But at GMCH, the ambulance stays stuck for half an hour or even one hour as the emergency service stretcher has to function even inside the hospital, transferring patient to the respective department or even ICU if need be. 
 
 District EMS committee secretary district civil surgeon Dr Umesh Navade assured that he will look into the matter and take action. Dr Navade admitted that, as soon as a patient is being admitted to casualty, it is the job of the hospital to take care of patient and release the ambulance immediately.
 
 The moment the doctor in the casualty ward attends to the patient and shifts him/her to the bed, the ambulance doctor has to hand over a copy of pre-operate care record (PCR) to the doctor in the casualty ward. This doctor then signs the PCR copy which remains with the ambulance doctors. Soon after getting the signature, the ambulance is released to take another call.
 
 At GMCH, however, the casualty ward is closed down during OPD hours because the doctors are busy treating OPD patients, so all emergency patients coming to the hospital during this time have to go the OPD from where they are taken to their respective department.
 
 Recently, when TOI visited GMCH, a ‘108’ ambulance stretcher was seen rushing a young girl to the ICU. The stretcher was not released until an ICU bed was made available to the girl. Moreover, not a single attendant was attending the emergency patients, leaving no other option for the ambulance doctor but to look after the patient inside the hospital.
 
 A few months back, ‘108’ ambulance stretchers were seen lined up at the GMCH diagnostic department. It later turned out that since the CAT scan machine was at IGMCH, it was using the emergency service to divert all such patients to GMCH. Sources said that ambulances from other areas were also used for the purpose.
 
 In such situations, the ambulance of a particular area become unavailable to take calls from respective area. A instance of this was seen when recently a young couple on a bike dashed a car from rear side and sustained injuries between Dattawadi and Suraburdi on Amravati Road. A passer-by called 108 but was told that ambulance allotted at Wadi source point was attending a patient. The man was told that the ambulance of   point may come and will take 30 minutes to reach the accident spot.
 
 
