LUCKNOW: Barely eight days after a scuffle between   and   of a  , another such incident was reported late Tuesday night at King George's Medical University, following which two junior doctors of the surgery department were suspended on Wednesday. 

 A four-member committee has been formed to probe the incident after junior doctors claimed the attendants were affiliated to a political organization and were creating nuisance. An FIR was lodged in this connection at Chowk police station.
 
 On Tuesday night, attendants of a patient, residents of Musafir Khana (Amethi district) complained to   administration that junior doctors had assaulted them when they request to discharge the patient. Junior doctors on the other hand claimed that there was a verbal duel but no violence involved and action taken against them by KGMU administration was under political pressure. The attendants took their patient away later on leave against medical advice (LAMA). 
 
 “The officials acted on a one-sided complaint and on verbal orders. A mail to the doctors concerned had reached last night asking them to stay away from medical activity for the night following which suspension orders will be passed in the morning. It is shocking that no action has been taken yet in the April 3 scuffle,” said Dr Ganesh, secretary of KGMU Resident Doctors Association.
 
 KGMU administration, however, claimed action taken on Tuesday was following preliminary report and was followed in any such incident. “This is the procedure when there is prima facie evidence of assault on either side and the same was sought from the head of the department,” said Dr Vijay Kumar, medical superintendent, KGMU. 
 
 The attendant was absent from the committee meeting called in on Wednesday afternoon, while resident doctors submitted a letter with signatures of other attendants in the surgery ward claiming that there was no violence between the two groups. 
 
 BOX
 
 A delegation of KGMU doctors met chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi on Wednesday bringing up the issue of constant doctor-attendant assault. As per the doctors, shortage of essential drugs and equipment for patients at KGMU is the “major cause” of scuffle at the university. “The doctor-patient ratio in the state is worst and more seats for PG need to be increased in the state especially to make up for the gap,” said Dr Shashank Mishra, who led the four-member delegation. Other issues raised include implementation of the UP Medical Protection Act, 2013, curbing abrupt fee hike, demand to increase stipend of interns and salary of resident doctors to get it at par with PGI. “The CM took note of all our complaints and said we need not feel threatened by anyone and raise genuine issues,” said Mishra.
 
