PATNA: Day after virtually bathing in colours on  , it was time for many men and women to make a beeline for beauty salons and get their skin and hair pampered back to their normal state.

 “The number of clients at our shop has almost doubled today,” said Rahul Tiwari, who runs a high-end salon on Boring Road, on Tuesday. He expected more rush on Wednesday after people’s Holi hangover subsided.
 
 “Anticipating rise in demand for hair spa and skin cleaning, I open my salon the very next day of Holi. Not only young people, many 40-plus Patnaites are also quite conscious of their looks... They take time off to visit parlours and are more than willing to spend a decent amount on their skin and hair treatment,” Tiwari said, adding people mostly came for hair spa and head massage. 
 
 Abdul Aalim, a hair stylist at a salon on Fraser Road, thus explained the Holi link of the post-Holi rush of customers at salons: Our markets these days are flooded with Chinese colours which contain harmful chemical elements. These chemicals block the cuticle of hair and damage them. You can clean your hair at home, but experts know better the exact requirement and give the treatment accordingly.
 
 A basic hair spa costs anything between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500, depending on the length of your hair and, of course, the brand of products being used for the special bath. However, the hair dyed, coloured or straightened earlier needs keratin treatment, which costs around Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,500. 
 
 Hair experts also caution about scalp cleaning. “Shampooing hair after playing with colours does not necessarily clean the scalp, which is essential to safeguard your hair,” said Vikesh Narayan Thakur, a hair expert. Face clean-up and also help remove colours and rashes. On days after Holi, hydra facial is much in demand as it helps retain the skin’s moisture which is lost after a scrub.
 
 City’s Rajiv Nagar resident Aditi Mishra nodded. “I visit a parlour after Holi not only to get rid of harmful chemicals, but also to rejuvenate myself after hectic kitchen chores during the festivities,” she said.
 
 
