KOZHIKODE: In a significant decision, the   has issued orders to stop many of its key services, including renewal of  , to   following the institutions’ failure to pay the examination fees of   to the varsity.

 The college development council (CDC) has intimated the principals of the colleges, including government and aided colleges, that all its services will be stopped until the dues are cleared by the colleges.
 
 According to varsity officials, it would result in cessation of all varsity services, except the conduct of examination and publication of results, to the colleges temporarily. Even the conduct of admissions to UG and PG courses by the colleges during the next academic year will be affected if the dues are not cleared.
 
 Government and aided colleges make up for the majority of the defaulting institutions.
 
 It is the duty of the colleges to collect the funds from the SC/ST development department towards examination fees of SC/ST students and pay it to the varsity.
 
 According to examination wing sources, many colleges have not remitted the examination fees of SC/ST students for around five years. The total dues to be paid by the institutions to the varsity amounts to over Rs 3 crore.
 
 Though the varsity initially responded by withholding the examination results of students from those colleges, the move was dropped as it would affect the academic prospects of a large number of students.
 
 “The failure by the colleges to collect and remit the examination fee dues of students belonging to SC/ST category is causing huge revenue loss to the varsity. Also the state local fund audit department have raised serious objections in this regard,” controller of examinations V V Georgekutty said.
 
 “Many colleges have been lackadaisical in taking steps to get the funds from the SC/ST department and remitting it to the varsity," he said.
 
  officials said that SC/ST development department have informed the varsity that they have been giving top priority to disburse the funds meant for SC/ST students and have not kept pending any applications from the colleges in this regard.
 
 Those colleges included in the list shall not be eligible for services from this office till the production of Non-Liability Certificate with the effect that the dues are cleared in full, duly signed by the controller of examinations, the letter issued by director of the college development council said.
 
