Nagpur: To overcome the manpower deficit at 49 regional transport offices (RTOs) across the state, the transport department has recruited 700 new assistant motor vehicle inspectors (AMVIs). Of these, the Nagpur district, comprising three offices — city, east and rural, will get 37 new  . 

 Besides the Nagpur district, the transport department headquarters has also provided 151 AMVIs in 10 district offices in Vidarbha, including Gadchiroli, according to a department officer from Mumbai.
 
 At present, the city office has 60 vacant posts against a sanctioned strength of 134, whereas the east office has nine vacant posts against 36 sanctioned posts.
 
 TOI had highlighted the manpower crisis at deputy RTO (east), affecting the work severely. The motor vehicle inspectors, unable to cope with work pressure, had approached their then in charge deputy RTO Ravindra Bhuyar and urged him to get the requisition of more manpower. Till date, against the sanctioned strength of nine MVIs and assistant MVIs, the office is managing with only four personnel and this has been severely affecting the day-to-day work for the past couple of years.
 
 Sources said due to lack of MVIs and AMVIs, the transport department is unable to concentrate on enforcement part.
 
 Sources further said the shortage of manpower in enforcement cadre, corruption has hit its functioning hard. Citing an example, sources said the two AMVIs in East RTO deal with almost 150 applicants seeking permanent driving licence, 170 temporary licence seekers and 70 applicants for passing of vehicles every day. Besides this, they have to look after registration of over 100 new vehicles daily and 40 inspections of vehicle documents have to be carried out.
 
 But now with the increase in the posts of AMVIs, the work pressure will be eased in the department. The primary job of an AMVI comprises issuing new driving or learner’s licences to applicants, conduct driving tests and sending results to higher authorities.
 
 AMVIs are also responsible for verifying new vehicles whose chassis, engines and other components have been pre-checked. The official also has the authority to inspect taxis and auto-rickshaws. An AMVI collects various motor vehicles taxes and assists senior RTO officials in faster clearance of paper work.
 
 According to sources, the frequency of surprise checks to penalize offenders for flouting motor vehicles norms by flying squads comprising AMVIs has dropped drastically.
 
 These flying squads intercept overloaded trucks, tempos, goods carriers and schoolbuses, check fitness of vehicles and look into complaints of refusals by auto and taxi drivers. Citing shortage of manpower, the RTOs have stopped these drivers and concentrated only on flying squads posted at various border check posts for inspection of trucks and trailers entering and exiting the state.
 
 
