NAGPUR: Referring to the recent statewide strike led by resident doctors, Hinduja Hospital (Mumbai) consultant surgical oncologist Dr   said, "We know we have lost the patient trust. 

 “Initially we were God, but now we have been knocked off that pedestal. Now we are looking forward to work in equal partnership with patients.” 
 
 Lala was speaking at the installation ceremony of   of Surgeons (ASN), where consultant surgeon Dr Rajesh Singhvi took over as the president, while   (GMCH) surgery department Associate Professor Dr   took over as the secretary.
 
 The ceremony was organized at Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth on Sunday. Dr Simon David Henry Holt, well known breast onco-surgeon, chairman of South Wales Breast Cancer Network, United Kingdom, installed the team. 
 
 Dr Lala was the guest of honour. Former President Dr JB Hedawoo and former secretary Dr Divish Saxena were also present on the dais. 
 
 Dr Lala said, “Unfortunately today patients come to us with a notion that they know better. Thanks to Google, many times they are misinformed.” 
 
 He added, “I suggest if we engage with government and start the dialogue where we can have communication with patients, situation might improve.”
 
 He is also an acclaimed mountaineer and one of the first surgeons in the world to climb Mount Everest.
 
 Dr Holt, who is on his first visit to India, said, “I am impressed with the sheer dedication put in by doctors here. With limited resources, medical practitioners have to carry out their duty in difficult conditions. Here, the resident doctors at government hospitals have to spend an year without taking a break in between.”
 
 The theme of the Association this year is ‘Team work spells Success.’ 
 
 Executive members of the new team include, Dr Devendra Sortey, Dr Parchi Mahajan, Dr Praveen Vairagade, Dr Kanhaiya Chandak, Dr Mrinalini Borkar, Dr Ramakant Tayade, Dr Nirmal Patle, Dr Bhupesh Tirpude, Dr Rajiv Sonarkar, Dr Prashant Bhowate, Dr Sushil Lohiya, Dr Gayatri Deshpande Dr Vishal Nandagawali, Dr Ritesh Bobade, co-opted members are Dr. Vinay Rode and Dr. Deepa Jahagirdar
 
