AHMEDABAD: They were the faces of 2002 Gujarat riots-- Ashok   alias Ashok Mochi, a picture of raw communal frenzy with a saffron headband, arms spread in war cry holding an iron bar and  , hands folded in sheer helplessness, eyes brimming with tears reflecting naked fear of death. Ironically, both these faces that are imprinted in the country's consciousness, are technically not connected to the riots. 

 In fact, as per government records, Parmar is not an accused; neither is Ansari a victim.
 
 Parmar was captured on camera in Shahpur when post-Godhra rioting was at its peak. After his pictures were flashed across national and international media, he became an instant symbol of hatred against the Muslim community in Gujarat, after a violent mob torched a coach of   in Godhra and killed 59 passengers including karsevaks returning from Ayodhya.
 
 Parmar (42) who is a cobbler and lives on the footpath in Shahpur, a mixed neighbourhood, says, "I put on a wrong expression at the wrong place. I was asked to pose that way. I had nothing to do with the violence taking place." In fact, Mochi is not an accused in any rioting case. Yet he continues to be a symbol of violence and tyranny.
 
 On the other hand, Ansari became the symbol of the persecuted Muslims in Gujarat, when he was clicked pleading with Rapid Action Force (RAF) troops to rescue his family in Rakhial. His family was indeed saved. Ansari became such a moving symbol of riot victims that the   government invited him to settle in Kolkata.
 
 A tailor by profession, Ansari (49) eventually returned to Ahmedabad in 2005. A father of three, he currently runs a small sewing unit in Rakhial.
 
 Following his return to Gujarat, Ansari made several representations to the district collector's office for his loss of property in the violence. But as he was living in a rented house, the government did not have any record of the loss incurred by Ansari. He concedes to have lost all his belongings worth Rs 60,000 in the arson but never got any compensation. In fact, his name never figured as a riot victim.
 
 
 
 
