Somnath/Diu: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced a loan scheme for small and marginal fishermen that would enable them to purchase modern boats for going into deep sea for getting more catch. 

 Addressing a public meeting Diu, Modi said that the scheme is being specially designed for those fishermen for the poor fishermen who cannot go into deep sea due to the limitation of their boat sizes.
 
 “The draft of of the scheme is almost ready and would implemented all over the country. Fishermen can form a group of five and buy a fishing trawler with cold storage facility and increase their earning capacity. The group will be given a loan up to Rs 1 crore under the MUDRA scheme. The Centre will contribute 50 per cent of funds,” Modi said.
 
 “The group will be given big fishing boats which can go beyond 12 nautical miles, where catch is available in large numbers. Small fishermen, instead of fishing alone, can be part of such groups and share profits,” he said.
 
 Modi, who later offered prayers at Somnath temple, also said that his government is looking to bring about a ‘green revolution’ by coastal development and fishermen’s welfare.
 
 “Under the Sagar Mala project, we have identified 400 projects of which 40 would come up along Gujarat’ coast and attract Rs 45,000 crore’s investment,’’ Modi told gathering.
 
 Modi was felicitated by local BJP unit as it was after 39 years that an incumbent Prime Minister has visited Somnath temple. 
 
 The PM also announced the new ‘iconic’ bridge connecting Dwarka to Beyt Dwarka that will be constructed at a cost of Rs 500 crore. “The design is being prepared for this iconic bridge which will also be tourist attraction in itself. People can use this this bridge on foot, cycling, car and loaded vehicles too,” Modi announced. 
 
 Talking about price issue of farm produce, Modi said that in order to help groundnut growing farmers, government has decided to allow its export so that the growers can get good prices.
 
 
