‘Pudhey za’, ‘saral jayecha’ and ‘aagey se right’, are probably words you hear all the time if you take an   or taxi in Mumbai. This is the basic travel lingo that the local transport drivers understand. And it gets them around. But a 2016 circular issued by the Maharashtra government, making knowledge of Marathi a pre-condition for issuance of new autorickshaw permits, took things onto a rocky road. As per it, from November 1, 2016, new permits would be given only to those who can speak the Marathi. This made it tough for many auto drivers, who were unable to serve up the local language as expected. However, that’s set to change now. On Wednesday, March 1, The   cast aside the circular, deeming it illegal. This has made the city’s autorickshaw driver community heave a sigh of relief.
 
 
  
  
 Shashank Rao, leader of the auto rickshaw and taximens’ union, welcomed the judgment, saying this will help build earnings as earlier, so many drivers were deprived of permits due to the language criteria. “As per the Motor Vehicles Act, it is said that the drivers ‘must have a knowledge of the local language’. This involves just a basic understanding and it means that the knowledge must be limited to the occupation,” he explains, asking, “How much will you talk in Marathi with your auto driver anyway? It’s just a few sentences, like kiti zhaley, or mala ithey jayecha. And the drivers already know that much. So far, things have also been very unfair to them. Because after a driver’s name is selected, he has to go for a special interview to see if he knows Marathi. But, they ask all kinds of questions, even about political science! Why ask all that? Did they say what kind of test they would give the drivers? There is just no curriculum to it. Tomorrow, if you use a transport-based app, will you need to have a diploma in IT to use it? There is also so much corruption in this permit process. We had filed a case a few months ago where for giving a permit an agent asked for `1,50,000. This absolutely wrong! It’s a mess up with the fundamentals. So, we are relieved and happy with the court’s decision, it will help the incomes of poor auto drivers,” he states.
  Agrees Kiran Wangade, secretary of the Mumbai autorickshaw- taximen’s union. “They shouldn’t have issued such a circular in 2016 in the first place. The main criteria is to see if the driver can ferry the passenger to his destination safely. We are glad the circular has been deemed illegal. After all, you must have noticed that even local Maharashtrian drivers speak in Hindi. And today, almost 99 per cent of all drivers understand basic Marathi, anyway.” He also agrees, “After the circular came into place, the transport officers used to ask the rickshaw drivers tough questions in History and Geography in Marathi. How could the drivers answer this? Why not ask him — if a person is going from Goregaon to the Bandra collector’s office, what’s the best route to reach there? Or if the driver knows the city’s roads and junctions? Instead, they gave the drivers difficult questions in Marathi, which they couldn’t handle,” he says. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Mumbai’s auto drivers have hailed the Bombay High Court order and understandably, the mood on the street is upbeat. Raju Yadav, from  , who had applied for a permit in 2016 and hasn’t got one yet as he couldn’t speak Marathi, has a few questions. “We do understand the basic words, but what about the passengers? Do they all speak Marathi?” he asks, adding, “India has so many states — should we learn 
 if we go to work there? 
 .” He also says, being able to get a permit without such conditions will solve monetary problems for many families. “Today, because I have no permit, I have to rent the auto, for which I have to pay `5,500 per month. Then, there is the cost of gas. If we can buy our own vehicles, we can save our money and send it home,” he says. Adds Shakaldev Yadav from  , who drives his auto at Bandra and who also applied for a permit last year, “I tried to answer as best as I could, but my application was just put into a pending ‘folder’ and it has been there since. So many of my friends are also dealing with the same problem. There no should be no language restrictions when trying to secure a job in our society. If that happens, it is wrong,” he adds. 
 
 
 
 A division bench of justices AS Oka and Anuja Prabhudessai passed the order on a petition filed by   Auto Rickshaw Chalak Sangathan, a union of rickshaw drivers from neighbouring Mira Bhayander area. The petition had challenged a circular issued by the government to the   in 2016. “If an applicant for permit does not fulfill the condition of having knowledge of Marathi, then his application cannot be disqualified,” the bench ruled. The court said the government has the power to make rules, but it cannot introduce them through a circular. The petitioners argued that imposing this condition for issuing ‘badges’ to auto rickshaw drivers was still understandable, but it did not make sense for auto rickshaw permits, because in many cases the rickshaw owner rents out the vehicle to others. The bench accepted this argument, saying, “Prima facie this condition cannot be applied while issuing permits. It is illegal and not correct.”
 
 
 As per figures by the auto union, today there are about 1 lakh four thousand rickshaws in Mumbai (Eastern and Western Suburbs).
 
 
 
