LUCKNOW: The Aditya Nath Yogi government is contemplating to adopt the   model to check rampant   in the state.

 “The menace needs to be tackled with an iron hand,” said energy minister Srikant Sharma, while speaking to reporters in Lucknow. He said that the state government would adopt Gujarat’s ‘zero tolerance’ model in checking power theft, which is turning out to be a big problem. While he did not elaborate, power experts said that the model envisages constitution of dedicated vigilance squads and setting up of special police stations where cases related to power theft would be lodged.
 
 While the   (CEA) has set a limit of 15% Aggregate Technical and Commercial (AT&C) losses, UP records almost 32%. Sharma said that the high rate of pilferage needs to be brought down to ensure round the clock power supply in the state. “For this the state government would first pick up feeders where power theft is the most,” he said.
 
 Chairman, All India Power Engineers’ Federation, Shailendra Dubey said that the model would be more than welcome given the high rate of pilferage. “It will be a test for the state government since power distribution is essentially being done by the state owned distribution companies,” he said, while speaking to TOI.
 
 Sharma said that there was no room for the concept called 24 hours power supply to VIP districts. The previous Akhilesh Yadav government had been providing round-the-clock power supply to VIP districts like Etawah, Mainpuri, Rampur, Rae Bareli, Amethi and Varanasi, apart from Lucknow, Agra and Noida which had been categorized to get round-the-clock power supply. Sharma said the new regime has provided a roster according to which the district headquarters are scheduled to get 24 hours of power supply. Likewise, the tehsil and the Bundelkhand region will get 20 hours, while the rural areas would get 18 hours of power supply.
 
 The minister said that the UP Power Corporation Limited ( ) has also been asked to take special care of the power situation because of the board examinations. He said that the corporation has been directed to ensure that no power outages occur during the night. Also, the examination centres should not face any power cut, he said.
 
 Sharma said that the state government was somehow meeting the power demand which is already hovering at around 14,000 Mw and was likely to touch the 16,000 Mw mark during the peak period as the summer progresses.
 
