COIMBATORE: The state transport department has decided to deploy a special team on the   to check   and to penalise speeding vehicles. 

 The move has come after a video of two private buses indulging in rash driving went viral on social media last week. These officials will be equipped with speed guns and they will inspect buses, check for rash driving and overspeeding. 
 
 Apart from this, the transport commissioner has ordered revocation of the licences of the drivers in the video. The permit of the bus operator will be suspended for 15 days. 
 
 A meeting was held by the   sub-collector with the drivers and owners of the private buses on Tuesday. Deputy speaker of   legislative assembly V Jayaraman participated in the meeting. More than 30 drivers and 30 private bus owners also participated in the meeting.
 
 The bus owners raised the issue of route timings that had not been revised for 30 years. They said there were several speed breakers on the route which should be removed. They also requested the officials to relax the timings until the road expansion work is completed. 
 
 “If we get delayed even by two minutes,   officials won’t let us enter a bus stand. That is the main reason we drive rashly. If the officials relax the timing and let us enter on case basis, such incidents can be avoided,” they said. 
 
 The MLA and the senior officials said they would forward the request to their seniors in Chennai.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police Muthuraj said, “We have asked the private bus owners to install the speed tracker device which will ensure that the bus does not cross 70km per hour. If the vehicle travelled at a higher speed, it will be automatically switched off.”
 
 RTO Karthikeyan said, “A   formed by the joint transport commissioner will be deployed on the road. Apart from this team, one inspector from our office will also monitor the violations. This squad will be deployed in and around the city with main focus will be on the Pollachi road.”
 
 Sub-collector, Pollachi, B Gayathri Krishnan said, “We have warned the officials that strict action would be taken from now on if bus drivers indulge in rash driving. We have also instructed the highways department to set up barricades and drums on the roadsides where road work is going on to ensure vehicles don’t travel on them. Their request on relaxing the route timings has been recorded and will be forwarded to concerned authorities.”
 
 
