LUCKNOW: A former MLA’s son along with son of a well-connected businessman who is member of multiple chambers of industries, reminded the city of the infamous Mumbai hit-and-run case on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.   excessively in a hatchback car and in a drunken state, the duo allegedly crushed to death five persons sleeping in a raen basera (temporary night shelter) and injured eight more opposite Bahukhandi   hostel at Dalibagh in Hazratganj area at 1.20am.

 Resident of Vishal Khand, Gomtinagar and son of former MLA of   late Ashok Kumar,   was driving under the influence of alcohol and his friend   was drunk too and seated next to him in the car. Both of them are in early 20s and had gone to attend a Saturday night party at a house in Gokhale Marg. Police said Ayush did not have a driving licence.
 
 The victims, mostly from Bahraich district were daily wage labourers who worked at construction sites or pulled cycle rickshaw for a living. To brave the intense cold wave, the group of five were sleeping in the shelter home. Ayush was heading towards Baluadda from Dalibagh when he lost control and the car ran into the shelter home.
 
 “He ran over Prithvi Raj, Gokaran, Abdul Kalam, Deshraj and one more person and eight others were injured,” said 23-year-old Ravi Kumar, who was at the other end of the shelter. As it had rained on Saturday night, the shelter home was packed to capacity. “The shelter home has capacity to hold 50 to 55 persons and close to 70 persons were camping on Saturday night because it had rained,” said another witness, a Bahraich native, Holi. Ravi and Holi are both labourers.
 
 Senior officials visited the spot only in the morning, Hazratganj police reached the site within a short while. Those injured severely were rushed to Civil Hospital and KGMU trauma centre in police jeeps and 108 ambulances were summoned to ferry others.
 
 Ayush had lost sense of direction and having crushed people under the car, rammed the strong retaining wall. He tried to back up, but the car was too damaged to help the two escape. Other labourers overpowered the duo and handed them to Hazratganj police.
 
 Additional superintendent of Lucknow (east) Shivram Yadav said an FIR under IPC sections 304, 338 and 279 had been registered in the case. 
 
 
