HYDERABAD: Many captains like to assert their leadership position and be the focus of the team but some like are willing to opt for corporate leadership and thereby give their team more opportunities to feed on the collective wisdom of each member.

 One of those rare skippers is   captain  . He may be small built but the Australian’s deeds are quite tall. He is also one of the shrewdest in the   business and is a bundle of energy. His enthusiasm is infectious as is evident from the way the guys in his team respond to his call. But what makes him more endearing is the fact that he remains a core team man and is willing to share the spotlight with all of them.
 
 “The great thing about my team is that we got leaders within our team and that speaks volumes of the way we play our game. Everyone can listen to anyone at any particular time,” Warner reiterated after becoming Sunrisers first centurion in the   and powering his side to a 48-run win over Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday night.
 
 The joy of the captain is to see his teammates respond positively to the challenges. He heaped praises on pacer Mohd Siraj, who had figures of two for 26. “He is amazing. I see him similar not similar action to Bumrah but in quality, death, new ball, pace etc. Siraj is a good find for us. He has had a good domestic season and is learning on the go. That’s one thing I am really pleased about. The one good thing is having an experienced head like Bhuvi (Bhuvneshwar Kumar)to keep talking to him, to keep reiterating the message.”
 
 Warner, who struck a 59-ball 126, was pleased with his team’s show. “Look, it’s always pleasing to go out there and score runs. It’s also great that I went out there and had a clear gameplan. Sometimes against quality bowling opposition where there is a lot of pace it’s easy to our thinkings.
 
 “I already said to the guys to commit to their shots because we have seen that they (KKR) were getting a lot of guys out with cross bat shots. I gave a chance too early on. They are a very good bowling unit and you really need to try to put the pressure on them. And that’s all that I asked the guys to do and it was my gameplan especially in the first six overs. Tonight it came off. Obviously we try and let this one go as we have won this game. We now go to Delhi for the return game.”
 
 The Sunrisers, who have won all their home games thus far, have turned the RGIC into an impregnable fortress. “These are different conditions. The thing here is that we are trying to make this ground our fortress. Every team tries to win as many games at home as they can. You should know the conditions, wicket and how to play. Whether you win the toss or loss it, you have a positive mindset and tell the guys to play freely and with a free spirit. I always support the way the guys go out there and give 100 percent and execute their skills. That’s all what I ask for them.”
 
 
