PUNE: Shiv Sena chief   on Wednesday breathed fire at the BJP's demand to stop printing its mouthpiece Saamna on the days the state goes to vote. He said the BJP was trying to bring a "covert emergency" in the state. 

 A state BJP functionary has written to the state election commission seeking a ban on the publication of Saamna on February 16, 20 and 21 (all voting days in the state), claiming it would "influence" voters even after campaigning for the civic polls ends.
 
 "The situation has become worse than the emergency imposed by  . Why not ban meetings of the chief minister and the Prime Minister?" he said. 
 
 Thackeray said that such demands were a complete misuse of power by the BJP. He added it was not possible for the BJP to continue in the state government without the Sena's support.
 
 Thackeray dared Fadnavis to take a count of criminal elements in the BJP and in the Sena. "They say that Sena has more goons but I openly challenge them to count the number in the BJP too. I do not know but I have heard that the CM had called the police department asking for a list of goons that he wants to put behind bars. But all those goons were given an entry into the BJP," he said. 
 
 Thackeray said the BJP had inducted goons while ignoring RSS workers and party loyalists. He rubbished allegations that the Sena was in cahoots with other parties. "Shiv Sena has a rapport with the people and not with any party. We will not require the support of any party even after the elections," he said.
 
 Thackeray said the poll alliance with the BJP had snapped over seat-sharing talks. "Their demands were outrageous which led to the split. We were together for the Lok Sabha elections, but during the assembly polls their demands went up. You (BJP) may not require our support in the Centre, but in the state it is not possible for you to establish a government without us. The Modi wave has ebbed. It was not seen in the Bihar, Delhi,  , Tamil Nadu or Puducherry elections," he said.
 
 Thackeray alleged that the BJP has failed to keep its word on a uniform civil code or the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya even after winning a majority.
 
  'Modi must refrain from theatening people' 
 
 Thackeray alleged that Prime Minister   is threatening people and pointed out that the BJP is opening doors to anti-national elements.
 
 While talking to Times Now, Thackeray said, "I had called Narendra Modi only once after he became the prime minister. I congratulated him in connection with the surgical strike. I am not his rival. Ideally speaking, the prime minister should show the path to the nation and not threaten every one to work for him. You should be a support system to the people."
 
 He added, "The way he talks to the opposition that he has their 'kundalis' it doesn't suit him. He must realize that the world sees him as India's face. Modi should rectify mistakes and go about his business like former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee." Responding to a question, Thackeray showed paper clippings and a picture of chief minister   with criminal-politician Pappu Kalani.
 
 "They should see the mirror first before making allegations calling the Sena as a 'goonda party'. Who is Pappu Kalani? Is he a saint, sadhu or Mahatma," he adked. Thackeray brandished another paper cutting and said, "See this. The most serious charge is that a BJP information technology cell member was arrested for being a Pakistani spy. Please don't take this lightly. BJP is not only opening doors for goondas but also for anti-national elements."
 
 Thackeray said he would think about withdrawing support to the BJP-led state government. "I will give unconditional support if BJP waives farmers' loans in Maharashtra," he added. 
 
