NEW DELHI: A 53-year-old   was found   in her house in Lajpat   IV in south-east Delhi on Tuesday evening. Police said that robbery appeared prima facie to be the motive for the crime since goods worth over Rs 10 lakh were discovered stolen from the house.

 The incident is believed to have taken place a little after 11am when two armed youths entered the house of Sarita Jain in the National Park locality in   Nagar. Her husband Manak Lal and son Ankit were not at home at the time of incident. There were, however, two servants present in the house. Of the two, Roshan and Rajan, the former is missing and is considered the prime suspect.
 
 “We have registered an FIR at   police station and identified the main suspect too,” said Romil Baniya, DCP (Southeast). Eight teams have been formed to arrest the three men. Police invoked Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder) and 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death) while filing the case. Roshan had been hired 15 days ago from a placement agency, whose role is also being investigated.
 
 Police surmise that the two men who came to the house were in league with Roshan. After making a friendly entry, they encountered Rajan, whom they overpowered. Rajan later told the cops that the duo taped his mouth and tied him to a chair. At this point, Jain came to find out the cause of the commotion in the living room.
 
 The assailants held the woman by her arms and shoved her onto another chair and gagged her to prevent her shouting for help. They thrashed her, covered her entire face with taped and dragged her to her bedroom. It wasn’t long before she apparently suffocated to death. The men then ransacked the house and left with cash and jewellery accompanied by Roshan.
 
 At 6 pm, when Lal returned, he found the main door of the house unlocked. He stepped in and saw Rajan gagged and tied to the chair. After being freed, the servant narrated what had happened. They hurried to the bedroom where they found the woman lying unconscious.
 
 They phoned the police control room and when the cops arrived, they took the woman to a hospital, where doctors declared she was already dead. An autopsy will be conducted on Wednesday.
 
 Police have found CCTV footage showing the entry into the house and exit of the suspects. The forensic and investigative teams have inspected the scene of crime and retrieved prints of fingers and feet from the spot. Roshan’s photograph was also obtained and circulated. While police teams were sent to West Bengal and other places to locate him, the Crime Branch has been asked to assist in the probe.
 
