KOLKATA: A   with a century-old heritage facade located in a narrow meandering street sparked panic through the densely packed office-cum-residential neighbourhood in south Kolkata and had the entire city glued to the television as they watched a tense drama unfold with an act of daredevilry that encapsulated the desperation of those trapped within. For a while, it also rekindled haunting memories of three past tragedies in which people had died in fires. Luckily, there were no deaths in Thursday’s fire though eight persons fell sick after inhaling the toxic smoke. 

 It was around noon that fire broke out on the third floor of a six-storeyed building with a glass curtain wall at 12 Pretoria Street. The address that once-housed a neo-classical British-era house of palatial proportion had been sliced in half to carve out two individual houses. Two thirds of one building had then been demolished, retaining only the façade, behind which a glass building — Aspirations Vintage — had been constructed four years ago. It was in one of several offices housed in the glass building that the fire started. 
 
 Once word on the fire spread, offices in the first, second and third floor emptied out. But thick smoke that engulfed the building and filled the stairwell prevented occupants in the floors above from escaping. It was only when fire brigade and Kolkata Police disaster management group arrived that rescue operations began in earnest. Familiar scenes of firemen using pickaxe to break glass panels to let out thick black smoke trapped within were replayed. Kolkata had witnessed similar scenes during a hospital fire in 2011 and again at a hotel not far from Thursday’s incident site this March. 
 
 One youth though did a Spiderman act before the firemen reached after negotiating the narrow lane made narrower by parked cars. Stranded on the 4th floor terrace, Sital Parida asked onlookers in an adjoining building to throw a rope across. He tied the rope to a railing and then clambered across, braving a potential 50 ft plunge. His daring “monkey crawl” reflected the desperation of those trapped in the smoke-filled glass building. 
 
 From the rest of the building, occupants were lowered using ropes before tall ladders reached the spot and people trapped on fourth and fifth floor brought down. Abhinav Bharati High School next door was cleared out when the glass panels that made the façade were smashed and bellowed out, engulfing the neighbourhood.
 
 Though there has been no casualty, fire services minister   said it could have been deadly had rescue not been carried out in time. “The impressive glass-façade turned into an air-tight gas chamber. The smoke could not escape, leaving us breathless as we were running down the stairs. I was terrified. Once I exited the building, it felt I had been reborn,” said Sukanta Dhar, an employee in an office on the 4th floor.
 
 Fire brigade officials said fire prevention systems installed in the building had not functioned. Fire alarms, sprinklers and fire-hydrants were dud when they were needed on Thursday. “Fire safety equipment were like pieces of furniture,” said a fireman who fought nearly two hours to bring the blaze under control. 
 
 Initially, 10 fire tenders were pressed into action. But they found it extremely difficult to approaching the building in the narrow lane that becomes narrower still due to parked cars. “We had great difficulty clearing the road for fire tenders. My boys had to drag cars away. People were so insensitive that they did not remove their cars even after knowing that a fire had broken out,” said local councillor Susmita Bhattacharyya.
 
 Fire Brigade officials said the fire had started from the   (GAIL) office on the 3rd floor, possibly from an air-conditioning machine that had not been switched off for days. They also did not rule out a short-circuit. The cause of fire can be fully ascertained after forensic tests.
 
 
