KOLKATA: The   demon has failed to dampen the spirit of tipplers in Bengal. At a time when most other sectors have suffered negative growth in November and December, liquor consumption seems to be an exception. According to industry sources, there has been a massive 35% year-on-year surge in excise collection in November this year, when demonetisation was announced by Prime Minister  .

 The revenue from liquor sales in November 2016 was over Rs 450 crore against a little over Rs 350 crore grossed in the same period last fiscal. December didn't lag behind either with the excise collection jumping by Rs 10 crore to Rs 381 crore over the same month last year. However, the growth has been marginal in January 2017 compared to January 2016, the sources said.
 
 The jump in excise is par ticularly significant in the backdrop of state finance minister Amit Mitra's forecast of a 13% dip in revenue collection in December and CM Mamata Banerjee's apprehension of a Rs 5,200-crore fall in the state's revenue due to demonetisation. Bengal had mopped up a revenue of Rs 44,000 crore last fiscal.
 
 The general secretary of All Bengal Excise Licensees' Association, P Saha, said that during the first 10 days of demonetisation, the liquor business had taken a plunge but recovered gradually. “Liquor, anyway, has inelastic demand,“ he added.
 
 The spokesperson for the   Foreign Liquor Manufacturers', Wholesalers' and Bonders' Association said the state has registered the highest growth in liquor consumption among all states in the last five year.“There has been a 20% annual growth of revenue generated from liquor,“ he said. The revenue from liquor in October was Rs 435 crore against Rs 345 crore in the same month last year. Liquor sale is likely to have fetched a revenue of Rs 80 crore during the four Puja days, an excise department source indicated.
 
 In September, liquor revenue rose by a phenomenal 33% in the state touching Rs 462 crore, up from Rs 346 crore in September 2015.
 
 “There has been a healthy revenue growth in October and barring the first two weeks of November, the trend is continuing. The demand during the Puja days was huge, thanks to the withdrawal of dry days on Ashtami and Dashami,“ an official added.
 
 The excise department, he said, has set a target to convert Bengal into a zero-illicit liquor state over the next few months. “We are conducting raids at regular intervals and this has pushed up the demand for legal India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) as well,“ he said.
 
 The state's excise revenue now stands at around Rs 4,100 crore while the liquor market as a whole is worth Rs 23,000 crore. Shiv Sultania, the owner of   and Distributors, one of the leading IMFL distributors, said as of now there is a 20% surge in demand for liquor this year compared to last year.
 
