NEW DELHI: It would be foolish to expect a dramatic improvement in  , especially in winter. However, pollution in the city plummeted to the “moderate” level on Friday, according to the   (CPCB). The AQI, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), was “satisfactory”. On Thursday, it was in “very poor” zone.

 The levels of PM 2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles) were less than 100 micrograms per cubic metres through the day at most locations. Temperature may dip further by 2-3 degrees and a shallow or moderate fog is expected on Saturday morning, meteorologists said.
 
 An analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed how Delhi saw both the worst and the best this year. The pollution levels had gone beyond 700 micrograms per cubic metres—about 11 times the safe standard in November—and were at 35 micrograms per cubic metres on November 26-27, which is below the Indian safe standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metres and a little above the WHO’s 24-hour guideline of 25 micrograms per cubic metres.
 
 RWAs in certain localities like Vasant Kunj, which monitor air quality, were excited about the improvement. Many residents decided to step out, go for a walk or do other outdoor activities. “I usually go for an early-morning walk and you could feel the difference in the air quality. It was very clean and pure and it made so many people come out for exercise and walks in our locality,” said Shikha Bansal from Sector A, pocket B&C in Vasant Kunj. The low-cost monitor in the colony recorded less than 60 micrograms per cubic metres on Friday. 
 
 The maximum temperature on Friday was 2 degrees below normal at 20.1 degrees Celsius but the minimum continued to remain about 5 degrees above normal at 13.4 degrees. This was, however, a departure from a minimum of 16 degrees recorded on Thursday. “We are not expecting rain. Temperature will also be near normal with minimum ranging between 9 and 11 degrees before it starts rising again towards the end of the month,” said an official from the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC).
 
 Air quality experts said this improvement was likely to stay for a couple of days but pollution levels would start building up gradually. “We received nearly 30mm of rain on Thursday, no wonder it really cleaned up the pollution. In 2015 too when Barack Obama was the guest during the Republic Day celebrations, there was rain but not as high as Thursday’s. The pollution build-up will take a couple of days. But we cannot expect relief for very long because the emission sources remain constant,” said a scientist from SAFAR.
 
