VISAKHAPATNAM: Some   living in   mandal of   have refrained from harvesting the kharif crop not due to lack of resources, capital or labour but because of the fear of monkey attack. 

 A troop of monkeys regularly descend on the paddy crops and wreak havoc, ruining the chances of a good harvest in the area, claim farmers. 
 
 More than 3,500 acres of land in the mandal and surrounding areas have been handed over to industrial zones and vast tracts of forest department land has been cleared for settlements. This has led to the lack of habitat for these monkeys, which once thrived in the area without interfering with the farming activity. Local farmers said many monkeys from the neighbouring East Godavari district are also being dumped here by the farmers to save their agriculture produce from destruction.
 
 “This entire region was once a thriving agriculture and horticulture belt. Today, there are more than 300 monkeys in an area measuring 100 square kilometres. Though these monkeys do little damage to the horticulture plantations such as mango and cashew, they have a tendency to raid paddy and vegetable fields. It is because of this reason that we have stopped growing vegetables and paddy during the kharif season,” said K Appala Raju, a former sarpanch of   village.
 
 Farmers have taken to planting casuarina in fields where once sugarcane, paddy and vegetables were grown. “More than 1,200 acres in the area has been converted into casuarina groves and this is not good as casuarina has a tendency to reduce ground water levels and suck the soils of minerals, thereby making them arid and unfit for agriculture in the long run,” P Suranna, an agriculture field officer based in Makkavaripalem mandal, said.
 
 Another agriculture officer P Hema said much of the vegetables that are sold in the local shandies are from the agency area north of Narsipatnam.
 
 Not only are the primates destroying the produce, but also attacking people in the surrounding areas. “The monkeys have now broken up into small families, numbering not more than five or six. Yet, they have a tendency to attack single people or those unarmed and without walking sticks. One of the main reasons is that they feel threatened and have a natural tendency to protect their young ones,” pointed out Ch Raju, a farmer from Ramannapalem village.
 
 Sources in the forest department said these monkeys have realised that there is more food for them in the plains than in the denuded forests. They also have easy access to water and will be difficult to remove or dislodge. One forest officer said the problem would only get bigger.
 
 This entire region was once a thriving agriculture and horticulture belt. Today, there are more than 300 monkeys in an area measuring 100 square kilometres. Though they do little damage to horticulture, they have a tendency to raid paddy and vegetable fields 
 
