NEW DELHI: Stricturing Justice Rakesh Ranjan Prasad for “illegally” quashing the conspiracy charge against   chief   in the Deoghar treasury withdrawal case, the   emphasised that the judge had taken a contrary position earlier in another fodder scam-linked case and said the reasons for the stark contradiction were “not understandable”.

 As it indicted Justice Prasad, then in the Jharkhand HC, the SC also censured the   for “intolerable lethargy” in not appealing the verdict favouring the RJD strongman.
 
 Justice Prasad was transferred from Jharkhand HC to Manipur HC in February 2016 and became its chief justice in September 2016. He had given relief to Prasad on November 14, 2014 on the ground that the RJD chief had already been convicted for conspiracy in the Chaibasa treasury case in September 2013.
 
 Justice Prasad was of the opinion that the entire   was one conspiracy and no person should be punished twice for the same offence. Justice Prasad is scheduled to retire on June 30, if he is not appointed as a judge of the SC by then.
 
 An SC bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy tore into Justice Prasad’s logic and showed him his previous judgment in a petition filed by R K Rana, a fodder scam co-accused. In Rana’s case, Justice Prasad had held that separate trial for separate offences in fodder scam was permissible as the conspirators were different for different fraudulent withdrawals.
 
 “Judicial discipline requires that such a blatant contradiction in such an important matter should have been avoided. The order passed in the case of R K Rana was on sound basis and though the court had noted that there was some overlapping of facts but the offences were different, it, however, has taken a different view in the impugned order for the reasons which are not understandable,” the SC bench said.
 
 “The court (Justice Prasad) ought to have been careful while dealing with such matters and consistency is the hallmark of the court due to which people have faith in the system and it is not open to the court to take a different view in the same matter with reference to different accused persons in the same facts and same case,” Justices Mishra and Roy said.
 
 “Such inconsistent decision-making ought to have been avoided at all costs so as to ensure credibility of the system. The impugned orders are palpably illegal, faulty and contrary to the basic principles of law and judge has ignored large number of binding decisions of this court while giving impermissible benefit to the accused persons and delayed the case for several years. Interference had been made at the advanced stage of the case which was wholly unwarranted and uncalled for,” they said.
 
 The CBI too got the wrong end of the stick for developing cold feet while challenging judgments in favour of Lalu Prasad.
 
 Justices Mishra and Roy said, “The CBI ought to be guided by its manual. It is expected of it to be more vigilant. It has failed to live up to its reputation. In the instant case, lethargy on its part is intolerable..”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
