KOLKATA: An early start to the festivities left Kolkata grappling with massive traffic snarls that virtually stalled the city on Tritiya evening. Several appointments, trains and flights were missed as large swathes of central and north Kolkata saw a bumper-to-bumper traffic. The gridlock late in the evening forced police commissioner   to hit the street to take stock of the situation.

 The morning had started with a promise. Barring a few stretches near Hatibagan and  , the cops were able to keep jams at bay. But once some religious processions took off around Entally and Moulali in the afternoon, vehicles came to a halt. By 5.30pm, the major pujas were drawing in thousands – Ekdalia Evergreen, 41 Pally, Jodhpur Park, Kumartuli Park and Suruchi Sangha were clearly the favourites. By late evening, EM Bypass got clogged. The closure of Cornfield Road led to more chaos in the Garihat region. It did not even matter that some biggies — like Md Ali Park in central Kolkata — had not opened gates.
 
 “In the morning, there were some breakdowns on Bijan Setu, Maa Flyover and AJC Bose Road flyover. The religious procession near Sealdah was managed by us. However, the shopping crowd severely disrupted traffic at CR Avenue, SN Banerjee Road, MG Road, Rashbehari Avenue, MG Road, Hatibagan, New Market and Vivekananda Road. Those returning home from work and thousands of revellers on the pandal trail added to the chaos. We had to close down parts of Rabindra Sarani and   to allow movement of idols,” said a senior IPS officer.
 
 The Kolkata traffic police Facebook page reflected the situation aptly. Messages began pouring in from people getting stuck in endless jams. “It took me 1 hour 20 minutes to reach Bridge No. 4 from Sector V and three hours to reach Behala,” commented Angshuman Roy. Payel Samaddar from Jadavpur said she was “literally stranded” near Manicktala. 
 
 Police sources cited several reasons — the loss of road space due to barricades being one — for the mess. One example is probably CR Avenue. Two, several arterial roads have been blocked due to Durga Pujas. “When all vehicles are vying for the same stretch, it will lead to jams,” said an officer.
 
 The traffic chaos coud lead to a review of the allocation of force. “We want to keep the process dynamic. For example, when we found the crowd swelling at Hatibagan, we diverted some of our men from the Sealdah pujas,” said a source.
 
 DC (traffic) V Solomon Nesakumar said all their effort was to keep the four most important roads — CR Avenue, RB Avenue, DH Road and EM Bypass — free. “We are constantly monitoring these roads so that the city does not collapse,” said Solomon.
 
