BHUBANESWAR: The much-hyped 2015 death of two students of   (NIT-Rourkela) while swimming in a waterfall in Sambalpur district is back in focus. 

 A few weeks ago, the   (PMO) sought a report from the state government about cause of death of one of the deceased identified as Soumya Ranjan Baral after his mother in November moved the PMO alleging that he was murdered.
 
 The PMO's letter (copy of which is with TOI) that was addressed to Odisha chief secretary on December 15, 2016, dealt on immediate action and reply from the state government in connection with the petition filed by Baral's mother   on November 22 last year. She claimed to have written a series of letters to several officers in the state since his death. 
 
 Swarna Prava alleged her son was killed by some of his classmates, who were on a picnic to Gudguda waterfall at Kuchinda on February 14, 2015. While body of NIT student   was recovered from the water body same day, body of Baral, a B-Tech final year (civil engineering) student, was fished out the next day. The tragedy had cast a pall of gloom on the state. 
 
 In her petition, Swarna Prava expressed displeasure over the progress of investigation by the state  , which started the probe from March 26, 2015. "I urged the PMO for a CBI probe. Since both of them were brilliant students, we suspect they were murdered. My son was a good swimmer. The water body was very small. His friends were jealous of him as he had bagged a job with a fat salary in Mumbai. He had also cracked CAT to get into IIM-Indore," Swarna Prava told TOI. Baral was lone child of his parents, who live in Unit-VIII here. 
 
 Asked what prompted her to raise suspicion about his death, she said Baral often told her that some of his friends used to harass him. He was unwilling to accompany his friends to the picnic. But his friends forced him to join. "When we asked the NIT authorities, they said the students did not take their permission for the trip," she said. NIT officials could not be contacted for comment immediately.
 
 Crime Branch denied Baral was murdered. "Postmortem and viscera reports clearly indicated he died due to accidental drowning," said a senior Crime Branch officer.
 
