NAGPUR: The union minister of state for home affairs,   ruled out any need of increasing the presence of paramilitary forces in Naxal-hit Gadchiroli district. The recent incident in which   had torched 80 vehicles belonging to mining company,   in Surjagarh area, was only a desperate attempt by rebels to show their presence, he said.

 The Naxals are fast losing ground in all the states where they operate, said the minster. On a question whether the security will be beefed up in Surjagargh after the incident, Ahir said there is no need to scale up the presence of paramilitary forces at least. At present there are 5 battalions of   ( ), in the district which is enough. “In case the company wants additional forces it cannot come free of cost. The laid down procedure for requisitioning extra force will have to be followed by the company. Otherwise the state police is enough to do the job” said Ahir.
 
 He was in the city to attend a seminar on private participation in defence manufacturing, organized by the   (VIA).
 
 Ahir said the focus is on having better coordination between the state police and paramilitary forces deployed in the Naxal-hit areas. “The Naxals have always adopted tactics of damaging vehicles or other equipment of private firms just to show their presence. This time they just managed to inflict a bigger loss. The problem is expected to soon end in the entire country. The rebels’ numbers have shrunk and they are not getting fresh rank and file,” he said.
 
 Later Lt General Thodge (retd), the former Master General Ordnance and now a consultant to defence ministry, said bids from private players for making 8 types of ammunition will be called in next 4 to 5 months. The requests for information (RFIs), have already been issued and 31 companies have evinced interest in the deal. The order is expected to be worth Rs3,000 a year, said Thodge. He had also come to attend the VIA seminar.
 
 The ordnance factories will remain mainstream producers but the spillover orders will be handed over to private firms. 
 
 He said a policy change is expected in the new defence procurement manual. The private players will get contracts for longer period so as to ensure profitability. However, it will also be ensured that it does not lead to a monopoly situation.
 
 
