METTUR ( ): "I have lost three cows in just two days," said M Chinnakolanthai, 53, of Appukampatty village near   on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. He told TOI on Friday that his friend P Suresh, 48, of Sigilipatty in Dharmapuri district near Hogenakkal lost 12 cows in the past two weeks. 

 A visit by TOI to Gobinatham, Govindapadi, Alambadi, Jamburuttipatti villages revealed that drought has wreaked havoc in the region. 
 
 With no fodder and water, the people are abandoning their cattle on the fringes of the forests to die. Rotting carcasses and skeletons of cows and bulls could be seen lying scattered in the region. 
 
 Denied their sole means of livelihood, most men in the villages have gone to Karnataka and other parts of   in search of jobs.
 
 
  
 
 "We have lost our livelihood and we don't have any option to run our families," said P Chinnapaiyan, 55, a farmer and cow owner. He told TOI on Friday that more than 100 men from villages in the region have gone to Mettur in Salem district, Coimbatore, as well as Kollegal and Madeswaran Hills in Karnataka looking for jobs. Chinnapaiyan had more than 40 cows in his shed. Eighteen have died of starvation.
 
 P Vengitammal, 57, also of Appukampatty village, lost three cows. She sold seven of her 10 cows a couple of days ago for 1,000 each. "I don't know whether the buyer will send them to the butcher or to someone else," she moaned. 
 
 R Santhamma, 60, of Jamburuttupatty village said she lost 10 cows in just 20 days. "All the cows were fully grown and I have faced severe loss due to the deaths," she said. She said that no one from the government turned up at her village after TOI reported that cattle were dying of starvation. 
 
 At Alambadi village, M Boopathi, 42, said she lost five of her eight cows. "I don't know what to do with the rest as they are also very weak due to non-availability of fodder and water," she says listlessly.
 
 Villagers at Gobinatham, Govindapadi, Alambadi, Jamburuttupatty and Appukampatty confirmed that more than 500 cows have died of starvation at Vathsalapuram, Yeriyur, Neruppur, Sillappanallur villages near Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district. They said some of the hamlets were cow deaths were reported came under Salem district.
 
 Chinnapaiyan said he had never seen such a severe drought. "This is the first time I have seen the Cauvery completely dry." He said they were all hoping that at least now the government would take steps to save the remaining cows and bulls.
 
 
