NAINITAL: In a glaring example of the acute problem of migration from the hills of Uttarakhand, as many as 37 villages in the   have no young voters left. According to district officials, these villages are inhabited only by those over 60 years old as their children have moved out in search of better jobs and opportunities. Most of these villages have a population of under a hundred people, majority of them greyheads. Kwarsingh village for instance has only 25 residents, Tarkuli and Chhoragaon, 35, and Kood village 65. “There is nothing to keep the youth in the villages. There has been no development whatsoever. Even though the Tanakpur power plant on   is just nine kilometres from Thapliyalkheda village which has 45 families, the village remains devoid of electricity,” Chandrashekhar Dwivedi, a resident of Champawat, told TOI.
 
  According to the 2011 census, of Uttarakhand’s 16,793 villages, 1,053 had no inhabitants and over 400 had a population of less than 10. The number of such 'ghost villages' is believed to have risen further after the June 2013 flash floods with estimates suggesting that almost 3,500 villages in the state have little or no population left. Damodardutt Joshi, 62, of Kwarsingh village, says that the population in his village saw a drastic dip after 2012 as many youngsters, disillusioned with lack of facilities, migrated to bigger towns. “In 2012, there were almost 200 people in our village. Today, there are just 25. I have three sons, all of whom left saying there was no future for them here,” says Joshi, his eyes brimming over at the dismal state of his village where one reaches only after a trek of almost 5 km.
  
  Ironically, Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000 so that the people in the hill state could have better access to infrastructure. Not only has this not happened, the exodus from the hills has led to a severe strain on towns in particular state capital Dehradun where many people converge in search of jobs and medical facilities. “It’s a sad reflection on the work done by political leaders that successive governments have failed to formulate any concrete policy that would look at inclusive development in the hills and stem the tide of migration,” points out Nainital-based sociologist  .
  
  Meanwhile, when queried about the lack of young voters in villages in Champawat, HG Bhatt, chief development officer of the district said, “Many schemes are being run by the government for checking migration and development of remote areas. However, they will take time to fructify and show results.”
