NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old girl virtually went through hell for a year after she was abducted from New Ashok Nagar in east Delhi by a neighbour while she was returning from school. The girl was kidnapped in August last year, sedated and sold to more than five men in UP and Haryana. They not only raped her, but also tortured and forced her into prostitution. The girl’s face and body were disfigured when she tried to escape from the clutches of her captors.

 Police rescued the girl from a makeshift brothel in Hisar after she managed to call her father from the mobile phone of one of the men who had brutalised her.
 
 Sources said that when the traffickers heard her mention “mujhe bacha lo (save me)” on the call, she was thrashed mercilessly. The girl’s father, who stays in Ghaziabad, informed the police and gave them the number from which he had received the call.
 
 “A team led by DCP Omvir Singh and ACP (Kalyanpuri) Rahool Alwal put the number on surveillance and traced the girl to Hisar using a network of informers,” said joint commissioner (eastern range) Ravindra Yadav.
 
 The cops posed as traffickers and contacted the girl’s captors, who were lured to Delhi through decoys and arrested. Three men from the gang have been identified as Satvir Singh, Mukesh Thakur and Krishan Kumar. The women members of the gang — Jyoti, Kavita and Mamta — were nabbed after subsequent raids.
 
 Probe revealed that Jyoti and her husband Pradeep had lured the girl, a Class VI student, while she was returning from school on August 27, 2016 after an exam. She was forced into a car and injected with a sedative.
 
 When the girl awoke, she found herself locked in a room. Pradeep then entered the room, thrashed her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. She found that they were in Noida from the conversations between Jyoti and Pradeep.
 
 Suspecting that the police might be trailing them, the couple moved to Kanpur and sold her to one Kalu for Rs 40,000. After a few days, she was locked up in another house.
 
 One day, when the couple and Kalu were taking her in a bus, she tried to escape, but was caught by Pradeep. The couple them disfigured her face and body with a blade and tortured her. She was not given food for a few days and beaten up whenever she tried to call for help.
 
 After a few days, the couple pushed her into a room with another man, later identified as Krishan, a resident of Hisar. Krishan raped her many times over the next few days. The girl soon came to know that Jyoti and Pradeep had sold her to Krishan and he would be taking her to his hometown. She was again sedated and bundled into a car. The girl told the police that she would either be force-fed a red tablet or was injected with the sedative, which made her restless after she gained consciousness.
 
 When she awoke this time, she found herself in a room with Satvir. He raped her and later sold her for Rs 10,000 to Mukesh, who ran many brothels in Hisar.
 
 The girl was introduced to Mamta and Kavita who would dress her up and force her to attend to customers. She told the police that she would be “sold” to different men for a few days by Mukesh and Satvir and then brought back to the brothel after the customers were “satisfied”.
 
 During the raid, the police also rescued another girl abducted in a similar way from Preet Vihar. Police suspect that Pradeep and Jyoti may have lured several such girls and sold them off.
 
 A case under IPC sections of kidnapping and gang rape and under POCSO Act has been registered. A manhunt has been launched for Pradeep, a native of Farrukhabad, UP.
 
 
