PUNE:  , the main accused in the Nayana Pujari gang rape and murder case, had told the accused-turned-approver Rajesh Chaudhary that he and his two friends, Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam had allegedly   and killed one of them (not Nayana), but nothing had happened to them, the prosecution told the   on Saturday.

  Special public prosecutor Harshad Nimbalkar submitted before the additional sessions judge L L Yenkar that Chaudhary had refused to join them in killing Pujari and evidence shows that the three were habitual criminals having no fear of law. 
 
 According to the prosecution, “The three accused had committed the techie’s murder in a most cruel and gruesome manner.” Describing Pujari’s case as more grave and serious than the Nirbhaya case in Delhi, Nimbalkar said, “The prosecution had agreed to make Chaudhary an approver because he was not involved in abduction and murder, but he was involved in the gang rape. His evidence is truthful and reliable. He is an eye witness to abduction, rape, threatening, extortion and robbery.” 
 
 Nimbalkar argued, “Chaudhary had left Wadhu Phata on Pune Ahmednagar highway and the medical evidence shows that Pujari was murdered after an hour near Zarewadi forest on the intervening night of October 7-8, 2009, and the approver had last seen Raut, Thakur and Kadam with the victim. The confessional statement of the approver recorded under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code is reliable and trust worthy and it should be believed because it corroborates with other evidence.”
 
 On the evidence of former assistant inspector Shaukat Ali Sayyed from the Pune police crime branch, the prosecution argued that he had first arrested Raut, Chaudhary and Thakur on suspicion under section 41 (d) of the CrPC. Sayyed’s evidence is admissible because Raut had given him details of the incident prior to his arrest. Raut in his extra judicial confession had said that he had abducted Pujari and gagged her to prevent her from raising alarm and removed her clothes while taking her out of the city. 
 
 The prosecution examined 37 witnesses while the defence examined 13 independent witnesses on behalf of the accused. 
 
 Nimbalkar is expected to conclude his arguments on Monday. Defence lawyer   representing the three accused will then begin his final arguments. 
 
