The fest season in DU brings with it a competition of sorts among colleges, who try to ace out their rivals in getting the best performer for their fest. The ‘star performer’ is usually the biggest highlight of the fest, and so, it is always a matter of priority for the members of the students’ union. Funds do play the most important role, but the members of the students’ union also do their ‘homework’ and research on the artist before closing the deal. Be it is Crossroads of   or Nexus of Sri Venkateswara College, the pressure is not only to beat other colleges, but also to live up to the expectations of the students and the college’s name. Student union members tell us that they prefer performers like   and  , who can engage with the crowd and make sure everyone has a gala time.
 
 
 
 For the past five years, artists like Mohit Chauhan, Vishal-Shekhar, Sunidhi Chauhan and KK have been popular choices among DU colleges. "We call artists who are known for their dance, slow and romantic numbers, so that everyone in the crowd can enjoy the fest. For example, if we call Arijit Singh, students can get bored, as most of his songs are slow. Aap 45 minutes sirf romantic songs nahi sun sakte. So we prefer artists like Sunidhi Chauhan or Benny Dayal, who can make the students dance and can also sing romantic songs. Aur sabse badi baat – jo logon ko enjoy kara payein, aur achhe se communicate kar payein, kyunki DU mein vahi chalta hai jo students se achhe se communicate karta hai stage par," says Yogit Rathi, president, Ramjas College.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 For SRCC, on the other hand, it is about setting the bar higher. "We usually work on combinations, like in the past few years, we had called a big artist, and then two small artists for the other two days. This year, we might call two Bollywood performers, one DJ and one international artist. We at SRCC, can never compromise with our fests and artists," says Deepanshu Aggarwal, treasurer, SRCC.
 
 
 
 "Jiski hype hoti hai, woh pata chal hi jata hai. But we also organize an informal meeting where we ask students if there is any artist they would want for the fest," says Prabal Khatri, cultural secretary, Venky College.
 Samridhi Bajaj, general secretary, Miranda House, adds, "We look for the artist who is number one on the music charts. If a particular song is going viral or if the students are talking about a particular artist, then we try to rope in him/her."
 
 The price that an artist demands is another criterion for selecting a performer. “In most cases, an artist demands an enormous price if he/she is a big name. But that does not always mean that anyone who is expensive to call will be a good artist,” explains Deepanshu from SRCC.
 
 
 
  
  Playing to the crowd:   at IIT’s fest, Rendezvous, last October (BCCL)
 
 
 
 "The idea is to not discuss or give even a slight hint to other colleges about the artist that one is trying for. All of us want the best artist to perform at our college, and there are times when the artists clash. In that case, we try to change the dates of our fest. For instance, if Arijit Singh is coming to our fest, and if he has already performed at KM’s fest, then we will make sure that we have two more artists other than Arijit Singh, so that there is some scope for being different," says Samridhi Bajaj.
 
 Namrata Sehrawat, cultural secretary, Kirori Mal College, says, "Ek fight toh humesha hi rehti hai. But if the dates of the college fests clash and the artist is also the same, then everything depends on the artist. Aur phir jo pehle gaya hota hai proposal ke sath, ussi college mein perform karta hai artist bhi."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Deepanshu from SRCC says that the college prefers to repeat its own performers from the previous years rather than call artists who have already performed in some other college. He adds, "SRCC has a brand value, and we know that we get six times higher sponsorships than any other college. If some other college is calling the same artist as ours, and if our dates are clashing, then we prefer calling someone better than that artist, or we try to repeat one of our performers from our previous years."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
