BENGALURU: At the  , Prime Minister   on Sunday announced a new programme to upgrade the skill sets of youngsters in the country who intend to seek employment abroad.

 In a speech, which was only interrupted by rapturous applause and “Jai Modi” cheers, the Prime Minister announced government's intention to launch the  .
 
 Stating the reasons for starting the programme,   explained that sometimes youngsters who are not educated struggle to settle abroad in their jobs due to the mismatch in the skill set required in those nations and their education.
 
 “But if these youngsters are trained for 15 to 30 days, as per the requirement of skill sets in countries where they seek employment, like that for a housekeeping job, then the same set of youngsters will go with much more confidence,” the PM said. 
 
 He said the programme will be a value added service for the youngsters who will be heading abroad. 
 
 The scheme will be of help mostly to the poor sections of society who opt for small jobs overseas.
 
 "Youngsters will be taught country-specific requirements, be it a few sentences, a few mannerisms or the cultural aspects. We are trying to ensure that with these programmes the Indians can immediately assimilate in the countries where they are headed and make themselves endearing to the locals by using these soft skills,” said the PM.
 
 Modi, during his speech also said that the union government was taking strict action against illegal recruitment agents in India. 
 
 “We have made it mandatory for the recruitment agents to register on eMigrate portal and are giving immediate sanction for prosecution to CBI and state government agencies to initiate action against the agents and agencies,” he said. 
 
 The PM said additional measures were also being taken by increasing the deposits of the recruiting agents from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 50 lakh for running the agencies.
 
 Modi said, addressing all issues, petitions and requests of   are being addressed using portals like Madad etc.
 
