AHMEDABAD: According to the data provided by the road department of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), some 54 road stretches across west and new west zones of the city have been resurfaced in the past one year. Despite each of these roads being resurfaced for average two to four times, the recent spell of heavy rains damaged most of these roads.

 These include six roads each in Bodakdev, Gota, Ghatlodia, Vadaj, Navrangpura and Stadium; apart from four roads in Paldi and Naranpura, three in Thaltej, two roads in Makhtampura, Chandkheda and Sarkhej areas and one in Vejalpur.
 
 While civic authorities have blamed it on the telecom and other agencies which seek permission to dig the roads, the quality of resurfacing speaks a lot about the road conditions, especially when AMC has allocated Rs 250 crore this year for road projects, confirmed AMC standing committee chairman, Pravin Patel.
 
  Time and again the roads are getting damaged with craters and potholes developing on all the roads, which exposes the poor quality of road construction work. “In a bid to build more number of roads, we only constructed one layer of road with Dense Bituminous Macadam; while two more layers with Bituminous Concrete and Oil actually need to be surfaced over the road, which is currently not being done. This leads to creation of gaps on the road surface which when exposed to rainwater loosen the binding and create potholes,” he added.
 
 Patel said civic authorities will now ensure that roads are constructed with three layers so as to prevent damages. It is surprising the civic authorities took a call to construct more durable roads after years of repetitive damages.
 
 When asked about the action taken by civic authorities, Patel said, “Our machinery and personnel are ready to resurface the roads and as soon as the monsoon subsides, the work will begin and be completed within the next two months.”
 
 “Travelling from home to work and back is an ordeal every day, thanks to the deteriorating road conditions along the route to stadium. At some point or the other, I am at the mercy of poor roads which slows down traffic. I end up leaving an hour early to make to work on time,” said Nikhil Patel, a resident of Vejalpur.
 
 According to AMC data, a given road in Makhtampura, Bodakdev, Gota and Thaltej were dug up by different agencies such as telecom operators or gas or power companies, and was resurfaced at least four to six times in the past one year.
 
 “Premchandnagar road has become a nightmare for me as I have to take the road every day for most of my travel to work and otherwise. There is practically no road and craters and potholes all over and I end up being worried about my car all the time,” said Gauri Wagenaar, a resident of Bodakdev.
 
