MUMBAI: Around 31,000 trees will have be   in a stretch of 91km, which is part of the 366km stretch of the NH66  , which is to be widened into four lanes. A sum of Rs 6.6 crore will have to be spent on removing trees, which are obstacles in the four-laning of  , which has been divided into various packages. Transplantation is a major issue given the terrain of the highway. Experts suggest the nursery method, which is to grow tree saplings in a nursery and then plant them there. Few rare trees on the highway-side temple will be axed.

 PWD deputy engineer for NH66 B A Patil had at a presentation at a seminar recently stated, “As many as 12,478 trees will have to be cut in the 40km stretch of Arawali in Sangmeshwar taluka to Kante (package VI) and 18,424 trees will have to be cut in the 51km stretch between Kante and Waked (package VII) in Lanja taluka, Ratnagiri district. Of these, 4,536 trees have to be transplanted.”
 
 Officials said land acquisition was on and work of the four-laning of the highway is likely to start by May 2017. Once land acquisition is completed, cutting of trees will start. As part of the four-laning, four bridges are being built.
 
 Environmental Society founder Dr S B Kadrekar said, “Not only trees, but also soil and water must be saved. Around 10 tonnes of soil per hectare are eroded due to excessive forest-cutting.”
 
 Rajendraprasad Masurkar, an Environment Society member, said, “There are other issues like threat to wildlife habitats, destruction of rare plant species, and alteration of water currents and shrinkage of the river basin.”
 
 PWD NH 66 section engineer Vasant Takale said, “Instead of costly transplantation, another suggestion is to adopt the Bihar model. A farmer is paid Rs1.5 lakh for planting and taking care of 50 trees for three years. Also, trees having a girth of up to 30cm will be uprooted and replanted.”
 
 National highway regional officer for Maharashtra Rajeev Singh said, “As of now, 32km work is complete, out of the 84km Panvel-Indapur section of the   highway.”
 
 The NH is executing the Panvel-Indapur section. The remaining stretch of the state is executed through the state PWD.
 
 
 
 
 
