HYDERABAD: A day after the sensational attack on   (RTI) activist   at Jagadirigutta bus stop, the city police nabbed three men on Saturday morning.
H Balaraju alias Naidu, and his two associates Ismail and his two associates Ismail and Raju, were arrested from  's  , said T Govardhan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Balanagar division under which   falls.
 
 Police recovered a hunting sickle used by the attackers besides a half-burnt handkerchief used as mask and their blood-soaked clothes as evidence. They used eye-witness accounts to crack the case.
 
 “The trio have confessed to the crime. During interrogation, the main accused H Balaraju, who is an offender in two other murder cases, said that he attacked Madhubabu on Thursday night with a hunting sickle as he bore a personal grudge against the activist,“ T Govardhan said.
 
 While ruling out the possi bility of the involvement of private schools' lobby behind the attack, Govardhan explained that Balaraju and his two other associates had hatched the plan to kill the activist 10 days ago but did not succeed earlier.
 
 The police claimed that the accused, who already knew the RTI activist, had reportedly paid Rs 3,000 to Madhubabu to help him get the birth certificate of his son from a Mee Seva centre some time ago.
 
 “Things went wrong after Madhubabu threatened the accused that he would ask the police to open a rowdy sheet against him based on his previous crime history. The attack happened after Madhubabu could neither get the birth certificate nor return the full amount,“ said Govardhan, while ruling out any RTI angle in the case.
 
 Meanwhile, Vakiti Rajesh, brother of Madhubabu, recalled his brother naming a private school correspondent as a suspect in the case. “Someo ne making a murder attempt on my brother for a mere `3,000 and a birth certificate cannot be true,“ said Rajesh.
 
 This was also the version narrated by Madhubabu to media persons at the hospital on Friday wherein he raised the same suspicion.
 
