KOLKATA: Kids, who study in Bengal should learn  , feel school principles, echoing the sentiment voiced by chief minister   and education minister  . But they want the state to hold itself back from going the whole hog and forcing students to study three languages till Class X. 

 “I am all for teaching Bengali from Day 1. My only request to the authorities is to not push it beyond Class VIII. If students have to grapple with three languages in classes IX and X, it will affect their performance in other subjects at the board exams. That will be unfortunate. Students of Bengal shouldn’t be handicapped by a well-meaning policy,” said John Bagul, principal of South City International School, affiliated to CISCE and offers English as first language, a choice of either Hindi or Bengali as second and French as third language from class I. It has tweaked the subjects from this year, introducing the third language from Class III, giving students a choice of Bengali, Hindi, French or Chinese. 
 
 Institutions, such as Loreto House College and St Xavier’s College, go through the academic performance of students from classes IX to XII for admissions. So, the concern of the burden of a third language. 
 
  hope they would be consulted before the state decides whether to introduce Bengali as a compulsory third language from Class I or from Class V. Devi Kar, director of CISCE-affiliated Modern High, conceded the subject from Class I would be a burden. But she added, “A child growing up in Bengal should know the language. It’s fine to start it even a bit earlier,” said Kar, adding it shouldn’t be taught beyond Class VIII. 
 
 However, CBSE school principals are wary about Bengali from Class I as a large number of their students join or leave   midway owing to their parents’ transferrable jobs. “Most of our students have Bengali or Hindi as second language. In Class VI, we offer Bengali, Hindi and Sanskrit as choice and then, go back to two languages in classes IX-X. We known of kids, who studied Bengali, but faced problems when their parents got transferred to Karnataka or Tamil Nadu,” said Bijaya Chaudhuri of BD Memorial.
 
 At Heritage, which has both ICSE and IB, most students opt for Hindi as the second language as they want to shift out of Bengal later. Principal Seema Sapru said introducing Bengali was a good initiative but added kids would be interested if the language was made more contemporary, like Hindi now. 
 
