
 : It is likely that there will be a decision on this after July 19 (see box below). Moreover, hiking ticket rates is a different thing altogether. It is a known thing that nobody is going to pay extra bucks to watch a film in the current scenario. Presently, it is 66.4 per cent (30 + 28 + 28 % on 30 %) out of `100, which is levied. How can the industry survive with such a huge tax imposed on it?

 
  I’m not demanding anything (laughs). For now, my concern is the business prospects of  . The film won good reviews from critics and was one of the well-appreciated movies in the recent times. But sadly, it didn’t get its due with respect to BO performance. Thankfully, the exhibitors were kind enough to lend their support. They made it clear that the net collection for the first three days will be given to us. Kannan’s grievance went down well with the industry folks. We have been assured that our film will be allotted the same number of screens when they reopen. It will be a big boost for us if the issue gets sorted as soon as possible. We are hopeful of the film sustaining for a couple of weeks. On top of the tax which was already levied on films, if extra tax is imposed now, I don’t think audience will come to watch films. They will be very choosy, opting only to watch those films which get great reviews. Any step taken to hike ticket price will keep the viewers away the theatres.
 
 
 
 We were expecting   to be implemented from July 1, like everyone else. But the local body tax was completely unanticipated and left us in shock. We had requested finance minister Jayakumar, who is also part of the GST Council, to look into the issue. We had also asked for time to cope with the new changes and a revision in ticket prices. When we came across news of local body taxes being waived in other states, we expected the same to happen here, too.
 
 
 Yes, indeed, it was a very big letdown. What happened to our film affected me, my director, who is also the co-producer, and others badly. We have lost a fair amount of revenue which the film should have collected in the first week. It could have been a big boost to the director. I had my share of struggles for years after foraying into filmdom. I can go to next level as an actor only if the films I put in efforts yield the desired results. Now, with what has happened to Ivan Thanthiran, I have to do double work. But I guess GST will prove to be good in the long run, though the confusion it has caused has led to chaos.
 
 
  I think stars, and everybody else, will be as supportive as possible because we want our industry to thrive. In fact, the other day, I remember Madhan Karky sir tweeted saying he’ll reduce his remuneration by 15 per cent. At the moment, no one is looking at personal gain. We want the industry to survive. But as long as the chaos over this GST is there, no one knows know what to do. Stars’ salaries might come down, everything will become transparent, the producers will be able to make better films; I guess everything will fall into place when things become clearer.
 
 
  See, I was pleading only one thing with them: give us time. Without a shutdown, nobody recognises there’s a crisis. Like how to operate upon, you have to be anaesthetized. So a shutdown is required, but all we pleaded was to give us time till the coming Sunday, and then go on strike from Monday — the same impact would have been there. But the theatre owners told me, ‘Dhananjayan, you know what trouble we are going through, the notices have started coming to all the 1083 theatres. And Monday morning, they will come and demand the money.’ On Sunday, I was pleading with them. I was there for three hours, convincing them. I kept saying if you give me 10 days to run, I will get 80 per cent of my revenue, and the 20 per cent, I will still get back when the movie re-opens. The film was doing so well, and they also felt very bad about this. All the theatre owners said the film was really doing well, and that they were feeling sad, but told me, ‘You have become a martyr, and we are sorry about it.’ But they said, ‘We will try to help you, but please try to cooperate, and don’t make this a personal issue. We have nothing against you. Just that we are going through hell and this guy has come with a notice on a Saturday saying that by Monday morning we will have to pay the money.’ That’s why the press meet happened on Sunday. They said, ‘We have no other option. Once we start paying the local taxes, then it becomes a system, and after that there is no way to stop paying them.’ So, they were very clear. I sat there for three hours, and then had to accept the situation. They said they will try to help mitigate our losses to some extent. They were very helpful and understanding, and they called and met   sir, and made him understand what the problem was. They said, ‘Give us time, we will make your movie a hit.’
 
 
 It all depends on the audience, they are the Gods. They must go to the theatre and watch the film, and not watch pirated prints. When the first half of Pawan Kalyan’s Attarintiki Daredi got leaked, he requested the audience to come and watch the film in the theatre. It worked, and the film was a big success. I have appealed to the people — our film isn’t Attarintiki Daredi in terms of size or stature, but the issue and the problem is the same.
 
  In malls and railway stations, they are openly selling pirated prints of the movie — we can only appeal.
 
 Piracy is different. Today, the audience is aware that this movie has got affected. I hope they will come to the theatre and encourage. If it’s a bad film, even the theatre owners wouldn’t have entertained us. Today, if it’s a small film getting bad reviews, they come to know of it the first day itself, and from the second day onwards, theatres would be trying to remove the film. I’d have had no locus standi to go and talk to them about saving my film on the third day if it was a bad film. They all said, ‘It’s a good film, the audiences are loving it, but we are killing it.’ I am hoping and praying tomorrow that the audience comes to the movie. I always believe miracles do happen.
 
 What we managed to accomplish with this film is that we have managed to touch the soul of students. They supported us very strongly with this film. Had it not touched that chord, our movie would not have had such a solid buzz. I believe students support us and the film, and will come to the theatres and watch the film, and encourage us.
 
 
  They are considering it. I met all the ministers involved, and all are very humble, nice and sweet. They are really surprised that this movie creates such an impact. They didn’t calculate the double impact. Somewhere down the line they had thought that it was not going to impact individuals in the industry. The four days’ business loss has happened, but now, everybody wants to catch up with the weekend. I’m really hoping that audiences throng theatres from today and watch the films.
 
 
 No. Nothing can replace theatres. The experience of watching a film like Ivan Thanthiran on a big screen… you cannot replace that with a streaming service. That’s all for second-time or third-time viewing. The first viewing should be in theatres. The hard work that a director puts in to narrate a story with visuals and sound… you cannot put it on a small screen.
 
  The film has also been engineered for theatres, which have different layers of speakers. When you watch it on TV, you only get a flat stereophonic sound. 
 
  Many people have pointed out how Gautham’s performance in some portions, like the climax, resembles that of his father, Karthik sir. Such nuances can be caught only when you watch the film on the big screen. I don’t think you can ever replace the big screen. Even in Hollywood, despite so much of technological advancement, theatres haven’t been replaced. Secondly, I’m not so desperate to stream my movie and kill it in the theatre.
 
 
  Those are things not under the purview of the government. There are three charges, which I think the audience and the media should fight against. One is online ticketing charges. I was fighting personally with the theatres, asking them to charge convenience fee for the first ticket and reduce the charge for the subsequent tickets. For example, now, if you are booking 10 tickets, you are charged `130 for every ticket. I told them to charge `30 for the first ticket and charge `5 (or something like that) for the other tickets. But theatres are saying, ‘Shut up!’ The producers council wants to bring in their own booking site, but I told them not to do it because that’s not the solution. We can talk to the service providers and tell them to be reasonable, and be considerate when charging for multiple tickets. Similarly, when it comes to the parking and eatery charges, I’m sure all theatres will bring those down provided they are given leverage on the ticket prices, like in Bangalore, Andhra and Telengana, and Kerala. Why should we keep ticket prices at `120? Are Tamilians so poor? Let them give leverage that theatres can charge a bigger amount for big films and a smaller amount for small films. With flexi-pricing, they can cap the maximum ticket price at `200 and let theatre owners decide what they want to charge. They can charge `60 or `80 for a small film to encourage audiences to come and watch the film, and charge `200 for a Rajini or Vijay or Ajith film. Audiences will be willing to spend a higher amount for those films, but not for every film. They feel it’s a good idea, but have asked us to wait till July 18. On 19, they will take a call, and there might be a flexi ticket pricing option coming in. But that is not the priority now. The priority is to get the local body tax removed. We can fight out this one later.
 
 
  I don’t think so. Nobody in the central government came to the decision looking at how the Tamil film people are inflating collection figures. If you look at it, Hindi cinema inflates its figures mostly by 5-10%. Today, Tubelight has bombed. Why would they say it has collected very low, if they are inflating the figures? You cannot do that in Hindi cinema, where a film that bombs is a bomb. The GST call is based on Hindi cinema, not on Tamil cinema. So, reflection of GST is not because of box office figures. They feel that people will pay for entertainment.
 
 
 Definitely. Earlier, everyone was paying in cash and trying to cut costs. Even Gautham was particular about collecting his service tax. The first thing his manager said was, ‘Pay my service tax.’ That is how it was being done. Nobody is talking like that today. They are asking us to pay the 18% GST as well. So, everyone knows that if a hero agrees to 1 crore as salary, 1 crore + 18% is his cost. I’ve been negotiating with artistes for a new film for the past one week, and the first thing that managers are saying is “Plus GST sir”. They are willing to get the amount entered on paper, and it’s a dramatic shift. It means he is going to reflect it in his revenues and pay tax for it. And it’s going to reflect in my input tax also. Now, everybody has to look at the overall revenue and not just the cost. 
 
 
 
  I already have a pucca script, but I’m waiting for this problem to get solved. But I don’t think this will have any effect on it.
 
  I think no one will be able to think beyond this problem now. Everyone is focused on GST and how to make the process smooth.
 
 Yes, right now, we are obsessed only with Ivan Thanthiran. Our minds are all blank otherwise. I’m just thinking about how to get the numbers that we had aimed at. On the second day, we were all very happy with the figures that were coming in. I was telling Kannan that we are going to rock and forecasting a certain figure. So, my whole objective now is to find out how to realise it.
 
 Theatres saw the word of mouth, and the film’s screen count increased organically.
 
 In fact, thanks to his last film, Rangoon, we had a lot of positive talk around the film. They have not officially released the collection figures of Rangoon, but this movie has got 50% more than what it is rumoured to have collected on social media. And we went around the state promoting the film, the teasers have worked very well, so there was a lot of curiosity around the film. That is why this 50% jump is a dramatic success for the film. But with this sudden strike announcement, our hopes were dashed.
 
