KOLKATA: Hours after he alleged that he was not getting due importance,   MP   was suspended from the party for six years. Roy had said earlier, he would quit as MP after Durga puja. 

 TMC secretary Partha Chatterjee announced that TMC suspended Mukul Roy for six years. He said, " (chief minister and TMC boss) Mamata Banerjee has given him many important posts, but he is only thinking about his interests and he is damaging the party. The party has decided to suspend him for six years. I will say, don't wait for Puja. Tender your resignation from all the posts now."
 
 Subhrangshu Roy, son of Mukul Roy, '"I belong to TMC. And there is no question to quit my party."
 
 Roy had said earlier he would quit the party's working committee today and resign as Rajya Sabha MP as well as from the party's primary membership after Durga Puja.
 
 "I will resign from Trinamool and MP post after Durga puja," he said here.
 
 "I was not getting important post though I was founder of Trinamool in 1997," he said, adding will resign from Trinamool and MP post after Durga puja.
 
 The announcement of his resignation came in the backdrop of allegations that he was meeting BJP leaders in Delhi.
 
  
  
 
 Congress on Friday had reacted strongly to Mukul Roy's now-frequent trips to Delhi, saying "BJP's friends" could not be  ' friends and claiming that Roy's activities are being kept under "observation".
 
 "We have come across reports and instances where Roy has been seen meeting BJP leaders. The party has not asked him to meet anybody... he might be meeting them in his personal capacity. Only he knows why he is meeting BJP leaders and what the real reason behind it is," Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee told reporters. "Those who keep in touch with BJP leaders or are found to be hobnobbing with them cannot be a friend of TMC. The party will never tolerate it. If he (Roy) tries to cross his limits, the party will talk to him," he added.
 
 Trinamool's strong admonition of Roy follows reports that he had called on a Union minister on Thursday night. Sources said Roy — a frequent visitor to Rail Bhavan, where he was once minister — had been calling on Piyush Goyal, his predecessor Suresh Prabhu, finance minister Arun Jaitley, home minister Rajnath Singh and even BJP national president Amit Shah.
 
 On September 13, Roy had also called on President Ram Nath Kovind in his personal capacity.
 
 Roy doesn't deny some of these visits but claims his Rail Bhavan trips are aimed at fast-tracking pending railway projects in North 24 Parganas.
 
 BJP rubbished suggestions that Roy has been hobnobbing with its central leadership to gain a toehold in the party. Kailash Vijayvargiya, its national secretary and Bengal-in-charge, said: "BJP has nothing to do with Mukul Roy. These are all internal Trinamool Congress squabbles. Why will we get involved in such murky affairs? Indicted in the Narada scam, they are now busy speaking in different voices. BJP will have nothing to do with this."
 
 Bengal BJP sources said Roy, if at all, was speaking to the party's central leadership directly bypassing state leaders. "We have nothing to add to whatever has been said before. It isn't only Roy but many other senior leaders who have queued up. However, it is the central leadership's prerogative to decide on such issues," a senior state BJP leader said.
 
 Shah has already told the state BJP leadership that he isn't averse to inducting lateral entrants if it lends weight to the party in Bengal. The state leadership, however, has been forewarned that such inductees shouldn't dilute the party's strong anti-corruption pitch in Bengal.
 
 The issue is likely to be discussed again when state BJP leaders attend the national executive meeting in New Delhi on October 24-25.
 
 
 
 
 
 
