Aurangabad: Total 18,614 candidates appeared for the common entrance test (CET) for admission to post-graduate courses at university departments and affiliated colleges of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University ( ) on Monday.

 The number of aspirants has exceeded the declared intake capacity of around 11,600 seats, posing technical issues before the authorities. 
 
 Senior faculty Walmik Sarwade said no student would have to compromise his or her aspirations in the wake of candidates exceeding intake capacity.
 
 “The centralised admission procedure has been taking place for the first time. We will see how things progress during actual allotment and will take a call in the interest of students. Any help needed from the government in the matter of policy decision would be taken,” he said. 
 
 The CET, conducted across 51 centres in four districts under the university’s jurisdiction, marked the beginning of admission process for 2017-18. 
 
 The examination passed off smoothly. Students are advised to follow the further schedule and contact the admission cell in case any queries. No university department, sub-centre or any of the 126 affiliated colleges that offer post-graduate courses are eligible to carry out a single admission without CET, authorities said.
 
 The PG CET result is scheduled to be declared on July 15, while online option filling for desired colleges or departments will take place between July 15 and 25.
 
 The CET and the centralised admission process (CAP) have been evolved by Bamu in exercise of the powers conferred under the newly-introduced Maharashtra Public University Act 2016.
 
 The CAP has freeze, float and slide options available on the line of admissions to professional courses. 
 
 The entire admission process for post-graduate courses has been made student-centric and therefore freeze, float and slide options have been incorporated in the process. The reform will do away the rigidity in admission process and would offer seats to students based on their merit with greater flexibility, authorities said. 
 
 
