NEW DELHI: The statement of a   youth wing leader from West Bengal announcing Rs 11 lakh bounty for any one beheading chief minister   left Parliament in uproar on Wednesday with members cutting across party lines calling it “barbaric”.

 The government roundly condemned it and said the state if free to take action.
 
 Raising this issue during Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha,   member   asked the House and the government to condemn the statement, saying “a constitutionally elected CM has been described as demon”.
 
 The government immediately condemned the statement in the Upper House with Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi saying, “I strongly condemn such type of statements. State government is free to take appropriate legal action on this issue.”
 
 Many members joined the issue with Roy with BSP chief   terming it as a “serious matter”. “BJP should not just condemn the statement, but should also take action,” she said.
 
 SP member Jaya Bachchan said there is need to take “aggressive” steps for protection of women. “You can protect cows and women are facing atrocities,” she said. “How dare somebody talk like this, especially against a woman chief minister, particularly when women are feeling insecure. Is this the way you are going to protect women?” she asked.
 
 BJP member Roopa Ganguly, however, said she too is a woman and “I was beaten up by 17 goons of TMC in front of policemen. The CM, who is also a woman, should answer this.
 
 In the Lok Sabha, the issue was raised by TMC member Saugata Roy. He said, “Mamata Banerjee is not only an elected CM but a former member of this House too. It is a serious and alarming behaviour and the House must condemn it. She is a grass-root leader and government must take action on it.”
 
 Supporting Roy, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said his party fully associated itself with the sentiment and that such incidents must not happen anywhere. “A strong message should go from the government against such behaviour and action must be taken against the guilty,” Kharge said.
 
 Responding to members’ concerns, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar said such a statement was completely wrong and the government strongly condemned it.
 
 
