NEW DELHI: Large public structures surrounded by filth, their surfaces marked by murderous splatters of blood-red paan juice, the bases wallowing in urine pools are common enough in  . 

 These urban canvases will get more wholesome projections now with groups of   artists working to “reclaim public spaces and make them visually engaging”.
 
 Already,   group has collaborated with Delhi Street Art in giving the pillars of Moolchand flyover a makeover. “Under flyovers, people defecate, there is garbage and frequently, construction rubbish is also dumped there,” Yogesh Saini of Delhi Street Art pointed out. “Because of this, the spaces at flyovers are avoided by people they turn into dens of unscrupulous activities.”
 
 After working some weeks on the project, the place wears a bright look. “We also managed to dissuade people from dirtying the area further,” said Saini. 
 
 “I believe that people don’t usually mess with places that appear clean. Also, they appreciate a work of art in such places.” The street art groups will meet again on April 15 to complete the artwork at Moolchand.
 
 Nakul B, a professional who manages New Delhi Rising, stressed that his mission was “not just clean but sustain our areas”. Describing, quite cheekily, the act of beautifying an urban space as “spot fixing”, Nakul revealed that his is a self-funded initiative in which anyone can become a participant and take ownership of the cleanliness of a particular place.
 
 Nakul has received the support of youngsters as well as the elderly. “Students from the Indian School have been regularly working with us as part of their institution’s good citizenship programme,” said the street  . “We have also engaged with local residents, like at   locality, to inject new life into public spaces and make them usable by people.”
 
 Most city walls go through a cyclical pasting of posters of election candidates of all types or of products good or bad. Saini defines those who disfigure public property with such posters as ‘equal opportunity offenders’. “The posters put up by political parties, student leaders and businessmen destroy the look of these walls,” he rued.
 
 Saini is currently working on the Children’s Park near India Gate, where the walls of its library, amphitheatre and other spaces are getting a bright, colourful look to make them “more aesthetically pleasing for children”. They certainly look appealing and cleaner now.
 
 
