SURI: For a fortnight now,   authorities in Suri sub-division have been carrying out a unique experiment. They have split classes XI and XII on the basis of  , asking girls and boys to report on separate days so girls don’t feel harassed by the boys. 

 Ironically, girls outnumber boys in the school. In Class XI, there are 95 boys and 130 girls while Class XII has 87 boys and 127 girls. Despite being in the majority, girls complained they didn’t feel comfortable with the boys. The school then decided to split the classes on basis of gender for a fortnight. Boys were told to come in on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and girls were asked to attend classes on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. 
 
 The school has 31 teachers, including five para-teachers, to manage 2,400 students. Teacher in charge   said: “Last year, we found that a section of boys in higher secondary regularly disturbed girls. It was no different this year. Guardians of girls have been complaining that their wards are being teased, both in school and outside, by some classmates. They alleged that some boys even photographed the girls with their cellphone cameras and were forwarding offensive content,” he said.
 
  However, leaders of the teachers association and government officials did not approve of the discriminatory measure.  , district president of West Bengal Trinamool Teachers’ Association, said: “The school cannot take such decision unilaterally.”
 
 Rejaul Hauque, the district inspector of schools (secondary) in  , said, “The school authorities didn’t ask our permission. I’ll talk to the teacher in charge to know exactly what happened.” 
 
 Ashis Biswas, district secretary of All Bengal Teachers’ Association, too, found no “rationality” in this decision. “How can they do this? If the students behave badly on campus, the school may take disciplinary action as per Board-guidance. If the girls are teased on the way to school beyond campus and guardian draw the attention of the school, they may lodge complaints with the police or the district administration.” 
 
