BHOPAL: If you thought   are only deployed in nightclubs and concerts to keep trouble makers at bay, think again.   ( ) formed a contingent of  , who would be deployed in the civic body’s anti-encroachment or demolition drive and steamroller all hurdles coming in the way.

 “Aurat he nahin, mard bhi hum se darenge (Not just females, males too will fear us),” said Sanju Katre. Most were in sarees and some sporting a more comfortable salwar suit, but do not make a mistake of judging them from the tradtional attire they were in. 
 
 “I am trained in martial arts and also a NCC cadet. Our aim is to bring results, where men failed. We do not mind confronting men when it comes to upholding civic body directives,” said 22-year-old Komal Khatik.
 
 Many of the women in the squad are housewives. Being part of the BMC squad gives them an opportunity to earn a livelihood. The women would be paid on par with their male counterparts. They have been listed as 25-day contractual employees and would be paid about Rs 200 per day and make roughly Rs 6,000 a month.
 
 A demo run at New Market on Saturday made it more than evident what is to come ahead. Around 3 pm, a group of 10 women rolled into New Market in yellow BMC van. Surprised by lack of familiar male faces they found easy to influence, illegal shopkeepers were quick to realise what they were up against this time. Their no-nonsense attitude made squatters beat a retreat.
 
 On Day 1, the BMC did not provide these women any protection or even stick. “It’s a trial run,” said a BMC official even as his colleagues entrusted with the job of keeping New Market clear of encroachments stood at a distance.
 
 After request to shopkeepers to pull back into their designated fold, New Market streets in minutes were pedestrian-friendly.
 
 “Women have been roped into the anti-encroachment squad to deal with any aggression by females in BMC operation. Today has been an outstanding example of women power,” said BMC additional commissioner Malika Nigam Nagar. She was one site to witness the demo operation by 10 women included in the squad on Saturday.
 
 The move to deploy women comes days after men in anti-encroachment squad were roughed up by women residents during demolition of structures for smart road construction. Residents of Ahata Rustam Khan were upset with BMC notices for eviction of over 115 families from their private homes. BMC action has been criticised for being inhumane.
 
 Taking a cue from the failure, BMC anti-encroachment officer Prem Shankar Shukla wrote to the BMC commissioner to deploy woman sleuths so that women can win where men failed. “We have women from Sindhi, Muslim, Maharashtrian, SC, ST and   community. It would cover for any allegation and legal ramification in case of false accusation or a complaint against the demolition squad,” Shukla said.
 
