Afraid that they would not do well in their  , two   from a   ran away from home, sparking a   by the  

 Relief came for the parents when the police traced the teenagers, who were thought to have been kidnapped, to a train near Solapur. But the terrified girls triggered another drama by locking themselves in a toilet.
 
 It took nearly two hours of cajoling across the metal doors that the girls agreed to come out.
 
 The story of the girls, psychologists and educationists say, should serve as a lesson to parents in this exam season. Children need to be handled with great sensitivity, they advise.
 
 The ‘kidnap’ drama unfolded on March 4 when the girls from a Govandi slum left for school in the morning, but did not return home till evening. After searches in the area proved futile, their families approached the cops saying the girls had been kidnapped.
 
 “When we started making enquiries, we were told that the girls were seen walking back towards their homes,” said Yash Palawe of Deonar police station. The cops found that there was a third girl with the two. As they spoke to her, they learnt that the girls had run away.
 
 Sources said the teenagers were very stressed out as their performance in previous exams was less than satisfactory. “Also, their parents had been pushing them to study harder.” The third girl told the cops that one of her runaway friends had made a call from a payphone. Inquiries revealed that the students were trying to contact someone in Solapur.
 
 The cops then got in touch with the Government Railway Police and shared the girls’ photos through WhatsApp. The students were found on board Hussain Sagar Express at Kurwadi junction near Solapur.
 
 But chaos struck when the girls locked themselves in a toilet after seeing cops. It took a woman constable two hours to convince them that they won’t be punished. They were handed over to their parents on March 5.
 
 Leading child psychologist Dr Aradhana More said teenagers are slightly difficult to manage during exam time when their sensitivity skyrockets. “They need to be dealt with smartly. Instead of punishing them, parents should talk to them and use encouraging methods to get them to study.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
