By
 

 It’s not often that dead bodies are donated for medical research or for students to learn from, and the number of such cases among noted personalities is even less.
 
  actor Lokesh’s family had donated his body to MS   when he passed away in the year 2004.
 
 Principal secretary of  ,  , has now donated the body of her father, who breathed his last on March 17. Late PP Chhabra, also an IAS officer, had pledged his body about five years ago in Faridabad.
 
 The 83-year-old retired IAS officer, who died of age-related complications, had donated his eyes, skin and heart, which had to be harvested within six hours from the time of death. His body was given away to   (BMCRI), which will help students in their learning.
 
 During his last six months, PP Chhabra suffered a fracture in his hip because of which his movements were restricted. This had bothered him immensely the last few days, according to Shalini. “He was otherwise a fit person, so the inactivity upset him a lot. Most of his organs were working fine but not being able to eat in the last few days led to other complications,” she said.
 
 Chhabra also suffered breathing problems a few days back and had to be admitted in a chest institute for a few days till he got better. “He had a breathing issue for which he was admitted to a hospital for a few days and returned home a week before his death,” she said.
 
 The retired IAS officer was a hero for his daughter in more ways than one and even in death set an example. “He was my role model and soon after we got his death certificate, my brothers and I decided to fulfil his last wish, which I’m sure will inspire others,” she said.
 
 Dr Shalini Rajneesh promotes organ donation herself and urges people to pledge their organs, and has pledged her organs to  . “Most organs of a person who has been declared brain dead continue to function and can be useful to those who may need them, but because of social constraints, people don’t feel comfortable donating them,” she said, going on to add, “We did not hesitant, as we think practically. My sense of morality told me that I should myself do what I’ve been asking others to do.”
 
 According to a source from BMCRI, PP Chhabra’s eyes have been given to Minto Eye Hospital, and the body is being preserved by the anatomy department of BMCRI. “Cadavers are important for medical colleges as they are used not only for medical research, but also for paramedical research. It can also be used by X-ray practitioners and to teach courses like physiotherapy. There is always a requirement for cadavers, as for a class of 250 under-graduation students, required 15-20 bodies,” he said.
 
 
