KALYAN: A   survived a murderous knife attack in  , by a man who reportedly wanted to take revenge against her father. The 22-year-old fought back and her attacker, who his relatives claimed was mentally disturbed, was nabbed by her neighbours.

 The accused Anil Jindle (24) was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder). However, he is currently in Rukmanibai Hospital in Kalyan, where he was admitted with minor injuries suffered when he was beaten up by neighbours before being handed over to the police. 
 
 Police said the victim, Sushma Koli, works as a teacher and stays with her parents, sister and brother at Harishchandra Society building in Chikanghar area in Kalyan (West). Her father, Yuvraj Koli, is an assistant inspector with Parksite police station. While Anil claimed the victim’s father had assaulted him once and he planned to kill his daughter in revenge, Yuvraj denied knowing the accused. 
 
 Mahatma Phule police said at 12.30pm on Thursday, the victim returned home from work. Her mother and sister were away in their village while her father and brother were at work. Soon after she stepped inside, she heard a knock and opened the door believing it could be a neighbour, when Anil forced his way in. 
 
 Sushma told police that after pushing her back, the accused locked the door and attacked her on the head with a sharp weapon. Sushma said she managed to push him away, opened the door and came out shouting for help. She also succeeded in bolting the door behind her, locking the accused inside the door. 
 
 Neighbours who rushed to help then brought out the accused and beat him up. Police said Anil was a resident of the neighbouring Khadakpada area and hailed from a middle class family. His brother is a driver with BEST, while his father is retired. His family has claimed he is mentally disturbed and would often visit Chikanghar area. Suspicious on seeing him several times near his house, Yuvraj reportedly assaulted him and asked him not to visit the area.
 
 Avinash Palde, assistant inspector of Mahatma Phule police station said, “During the initial probe the accused said since the victim’s father had assaulted him once, he wanted to take revenge by killing his daughter.”
 
 
