NEW DELHI: The   ( ) today filed a charge sheet against alleged   terrorist   for conspiring to carry out terror attacks in the national capital Delhi and prominent cities of Jammu and Kashmir including border districts Poonch and Udhampur.

 The 21-year-old Ali, has also been accused of stone pelting and tailoring unrest in the Valley in the aftermath of Burhan Wani’s death.
 
 The agency has filed the charge sheet under various provisions of IPC, UAPA, sections of Explosives Act, Explosive Substances Act, Arms Act, Foreigners Act and the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act against Ali, who has been been in judicial custody since August.
 
 According to court sources, the charge sheet, filed before District Judge Amar Nath, claimed that the recent unrest in Kashmir Valley had been orchestrated by Pakistan-based LeT.
 
 The agency claimed that since summer last year, the banned outfit, with the "help of Pakistani forces deployed on the border", pushed heavily armed terrorists into India with a direction to mix with local people, create disturbance and attack police and security forces.
 
 NIA, in its charge sheet, has also alleged that along with his associates, Ali had planned terror attacks to destabilise the security and sovereignty of India.
 
 The pocket diary recovered from Ali, among other things, contains the names of several towns in Jammu and Kashmir besides Delhi, the charge sheet claims.
 
 It alleged that given the fact that Bahadur Ali is a trained cadre of the LeT, the inclusion of the names of these towns/cities in the diary indicates that Ali was tasked to carry out terror attacks at several places, including Delhi.
 
 A special court had on December 19 extended the judicial custody of Ali till January 18.
 
 "Bahadur Ali was given training in Pakistan,was given weapons,GPS devices through which he communicated with Pak handlers," NIA’s IG   said, adding, "It is the strong and clinching evidence on how LeT terrorist were sent across border to India."
 
 Meanwhile, Minister of State (Prime Minister office) Jitendra Singh has questioned the Pakistan's denial on the evidences
 
 "If Pakistan continues to be in denial mode on such evidences then ultimately it will harm them," Singh said.
 
 Ali, who was arrested from Jammu and Kashmir on July 25, in a confession video aired by the NIA, had said that he was trained in Pakistan. He had also admitted that he was a Pakistani national.
 
 In the video, Ali had confessed that he was regularly guided by a control room of terror groups in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.
 
 
