MANGALURU: Union commerce minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s vision to set up an innovation   in Dakshina Kannada is quietly taking shape. A team sent by her visited the district recently in the second week of January, about which not many seem to know. If not for a city-based chartered accountant who hosted the team members and shared his interactions with them, the entire visit would have been under wraps.

 The team was on a day-long visit on the direction of the minister, also a Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka. The five-member team was tasked with meeting chartered accountant Giridhar Kamath or entrepreneur Pradeep Pai. Arranging local contacts for the team was corporate social leader T V Mohandas Pai. Their mission was a quick in and out visit with meetings with the stakeholders through the day.
 
 “The brief given to me was — need to meet people, exchange ideas, visit institutions. No need to book any rooms in hotels, will keep our bags in the car, no particular food...,” Giridhar said in a WhatsApp post. “And this is what I saw on the day of their visit. Five young smart men aged 22-30 years from the ministry, Startup India and Invest India missions landed in  . We had breakfast in a small hotel. They didn’t allow me to pay the bill saying they’ll get the amount reimbursed.”
 
 “The team had discussions with 18 people representing institutions, trade, SSI, software and startups. They visited start-ups, had discussions with innovative student entrepreneurs at MIT Manipal’s incubation centre, its director, the former head of Udupi municipal council and Pejawar mutt seer following which they reached airport by 10pm. All along, they paid the bills collectively or went Dutch. There were no flowers, no speeches, or any freebies sought or given. They meant business,” Giridhar said.
 
 About his experience, Giridhar told TOI, “I have taken babus for lunch but have never seen something like this. These men have changed my perception about government officials. I’m impressed. For those who could not meet the team members, email ids and contacts were exchanged.
 
 
