It could well be 2010, 11 or 12 - it's a blur! The Chepauk used to be a sea of yellow in the peak of summer and there usually used to be just one winner -   ( ). And the man orchestrating those wins - day in, day out - standing behind the stumps or with the bat, was Mahendra Singh  .

 Dhoni's growth as the captain of India between 2007 and 2015 was phenomenal, he won everything - but CSK was his laboratory. The chasing template that India mastered in limited-overs cricket, the use of allrounders, Dhoni's own finishing methods - he perfected all those in his days at the helm for CSK.
 
 The Super Kings management had invested a fortune to get him on board in 2008 when the first   auctions were organised. Unlike other franchises, owners India Cements didn't have a local marquee player and the management had decided to go all out for Dhoni. Kolkata Knight Riders fought for Dhoni for a while in the auctions, but CSK was adamant and they had the young Indian captain on board.
 
 What Dhoni got in the franchise was freedom. There was absolutely no owner interference when it came to selection of the team, tweaking of strategy or handling of personnel. The management gave Dhoni complete control and he handled it magnificently.
 
 Before the 2009 IPL semi-final in South Africa, Mike Hussey, a superstar then, flew half the world to play one game for CSK. But Dhoni kept him sitting at the sidelines and the team lost. There were a few who were not happy with the decision, but not a word was spoken against Dhoni.
 
 T20 is a format where the captain always has to be on the ball. He cannot allow a game to drift and has to come up with new ideas. Dhoni was masterful in the way he handled resources, at times his manoeuvrings were like a football manager.
 
 S Badrinath, of Dhoni's key men during the 2010 IPL triumph recalls an incident. “The one moment that I always remember is the 2010 final against Mumbai Indians, which CSK won by 22 runs. It was a critical juncture, possibly a game-changing phase, with Kieron Pollard going hell for leather. Dhoni comes up with a field - Matthew Hayden was placed straight behind the umpire, almost next to the bowler's run-up. It was an odd-field placing. But then Pollard hit one straight at him to spark off celebrations in our camp... I still wonder how he came up with such a field position. Whether it was coincidence or he read Pollard, I still can't figure it out,” Badrinath says.
 
 Badrinath couldn't have put it better. It seemed impossible to understand what was going on in Dhoni's mind. He used to shuffle the batting-order as if he was dealing with a pack of cards. One day, he was himself batting at No. 4, the next day he was down to 7. And the cool, unflappable Dhoni anchoring those epic chases - that was an everyday occurrence at Chepauk.
 
 Even as the asking-rate went 12-15, the fans never bothered if one among Dhoni, Suresh Raina or Dwayne Bravo was in the middle. Just as strikers in football are prepared to score goals, Dhoni prepared himself and the other two to finish games. They kept those big shots stored up and it came rushing out in the last couple of overs and invariably the CSK fans would go home happy with another win in the bag.
 
 When Dhoni, leading India, was batting with the tail in a tri-series final in West Indies against Sri Lanka in 2013, he employed those finishing skills that he so brilliantly perfected while playing for CSK. India were nine down but Dhoni merely stood there. He had to get 15 off the last over and out came two sixes and the game was over. No one knew how he managed it, but that's what he had been doing for CSK, for all these years.
 
 There are a couple of other highpoints in Dhoni's captaincy career and those too were thrashed out at the CSK laboratory. In 2013 Champions Trophy final, he threw the ball to R Ashwin. The offspinner, till then, wasn't the bowler that he is today, but Dhoni knew what to expect. He had made Ashwin bowl in Super Overs of T20 cricket, preparing him for the big moment. And how well the Chennai boy delivered! But the moment that takes the cake is surely Dhoni's decision to walk in at No. 5 in the 2011 World Cup final. He was out of batting form in the tournament, but he came ahead of the Man of the Tournament Yuvraj Singh. Why?
 
 Muttiah Muralitharan, his CSK teammate, had just come in to bowl for Sri Lanka, and Dhoni knew he is the best man to face the wizard. For three years between 2008-2010, Dhoni had played Murali in the CSK nets, he knew everything that the champion spinner had to offer, and by the end of that magical night, there was only one winner standing - Mahendra King Dhoni.
 
