MOHALI: The   (MC) has set   for door-to-door   -Rs 40 for flats, Rs 50 for houses up to 250 square yards and Rs 80 for those  

 The agenda, which came up for a discussion at the house meeting on Friday , was unanimously passed after minor opposition by some of the members.
 
 The protest came after the civic body in its agenda proposed a manifold hike, to Rs 50 for houses up to 50 square yards, Rs 70 for 150 square yards and Rs 100 for 150 square yard and above.
 
 Councillors Kuljit Singh Bedi, Sukhdev Singh Patwari and Sabbe Anand said it is due to heavy collection fee that people opt for throwing garbage at open spaces instead of paying for it. Mayor Kulwant Singh then agreed for a uniform fee.
 
 The mayor said that in order to improve the state of sanitation in the city, the MC had introduced a   garbage collection scheme. He said that there were people who did not want to pay to get their garbage lifted by rehri wallas working privately in most parts of the city due to high collection rates. Such people then dumped garbage, even in vacant green belts.
 
 To check such a practice, the civic body had planned to levy a nominal fee on every household and provide them with garbage bins. They could keep their garbage in these bins, which would then be collected by civic body employees twice a week. The landlord would have to inform the corporation if his tenant left the building or when a new tenant shifted.
 
 COLOURED BINS FROM JUNE 5
 
 The municipal corporation (MC) will not lift garbage if not segregated at source from June 5. Mohali municipal commissioner Rajesh Dhiman said the pilot project, first of its kind in Punjab, will be launched from Sector 71. He said, “Residents will now have to segregate kitchen waste at their homes before garbage is collected from houses.
 
  The garbage has to be segregated in biodegradable and non-biodegradable form in two separate-coloured bins. Biodegradable waste to be thrown in green colour bin and non-biodegradable in bluecoloured bin. Residents can get these bins on subsidized rates at a rebate of 30% from the MC.“ He added that these bins cost Rs 700 per in market. However, construction waste, whenever and wherever generated, will be disposed of separately, he said
