Hubballi: The   decided to stop the decades-old practice of stopping   to supply water for its staff at   and   stations under   limits. This follows the TOI report (These 2 railway stations in Hubballi division rely on passenger train for water) on January 31, 

 Additional Divisional Railway Manager   said these stations are in a water deficiency area where water is not to be found even after digging 300 feet. “We have instructed the engineering department officials to look for a permanent solution to this problem. A joint tender was called in October 2016 to supply water by tankers to Bannikoppa, Sompur Road and Harlapur stations. There was no response from eligible contractors. Harlapur now gets water from the local gram panchayat. For Sompur Road and Bannikoppa, we decided to call a fresh but separate tender for each station and the tender will be opened on February 17,” he said.
 
 He sad the Railways plans to supply 5,000 litres per day by tankers to these stations and these tankers will supply water to personnel deployed at level crossing gates at Sompur Road and Bannikoppa. He said the Railways had approached the Bannikoppa Gram Panchayat twice about  , but there was no response. 
 
 “We have written to the executive engineer of the   in   to supply water from the neighbouring GP. They have responded positively,” he said.
 
 He also said the Railways is mulling over putting a pipeline from Bhanapur station, which has sufficient water resources and was the watering station during the era of steam engines. “As it requires a bigger budget, we need to check its viability. We’re aware that we cannot rely only on the local administration for water. We’re also looking at standby options,” he said.
 
 Punetha added, “Vijayapura and   sections are also water deficient areas in the Hubballi division. We’re looking at all options to provide water to stations, manned and unmanned level crossing gates. Currently, we have hired a tanker to supply water to   station on the   section. Eeach engineering section will get financial assistance to mitigate the water problem in its jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 
