KANNUR: Wildlife department officials are baffled over a   from   on March 5, showing the behaviours of a  . The situation is preventing the officials from releasing the animal into the forest.

 The leopard was shifted to the   in Thiruvananthapuram after its capture.
 
 According to an official, when the veterinary surgeon examined the animal as part of the measures to ascertain if it can be released into the forest, he raised doubts regarding its behaviour.
 
 “Though it grumbles and leaps on seeing us, quite often it is very cool in human presence and when the veterinary doctor caressed its head, it lay there obediently, which is an indication that it is accustomed to human beings, and this is quite impossible if it grew up in the wilds,” said a senior wildlife official.
 
 Moreover, it was hesitant to kill the preys given to it on many occasions and preferred meat, which is also strange. Only a detailed inquiry can unravel the mystery, he said.
 
 “When we gave it chicken, it relished it, and also it ate rabbit and goat meat. But when we gave it live rabbits, it was hesitant to kill them on some occasions. Also, on a couple of occasions, it killed the rabbit but did not eat it, which appears a bit too strange,” said the official.
 
 Another official, who saw the animal when it was tranquilized and caught from Kannur, said that it appeared as if the animal was bathed with shampoo, which showed the possibility that it was abandoned only a few days before it was caught.
 
 When it was caught, the officials had said the big cat might have strayed into the town from the forests bordering Kerala. Since it was found near the railway line, they had also said probably it came from the Kongan or Mangaluru region by boarding some goods train. However, now it is doubted that some circus companies could have released it, as animals are no longer permitted in the circuses. The possibility of somebody rearing it as a pet animal also cannot be ruled out, said officials.
 
 If the animal is domesticated, it would be difficult to release it into the forest and it will have to be shifted to some zoo instead, and till a final decision is taken, it will be kept in confinement at Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary, they said.
 
 It was in the afternoon of March 5 that the leopard was spotted near the railway line in the residential at Kasanakkotta near Kannur town. The animal, which attacked three people, causing panic among the people, was caught later in the night.
 
 
