NEW DELHI: With just a little over two weeks to go for Independence Day, Delhi Police’s special cell has made a big arms haul. 

 Police seized 35 pistols and 70 magazines from two gunrunners who allegedly have links with Nepal-based syndicates. DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that his teams had intercepted the criminals in north Delhi. “The current module is based in   in Bihar and has supplied more than 2,000 weapons to Delhi’s gangs in the last two years,” said Yadav.
 
 One Mohammed Munnawar was cornered near a Metro station in Mukundpur. Munnawar fired at a policeman, but he was saved by his bulletproof vest. Munnawar was overpowered. 
 
 He disclosed that he was involved in the trade for the past three years along with one Sonu.   ran an inter-state syndicate from Malda and Munger. Munnawar and another associate   would supply firearms in NCR. They had supplied over 600 high quality automatic pistols in NCR and UP (West). Sonu is also suspected to be operating an arms manufacturing module. 
 
 Police have intensified drives against gun-runners as Delhi has been put on high alert in the run up to Independence Day. On Wednesday, the police chief had a meeting with all 200 SHOs and ACPs to discuss security threats. A Paris-like attack using vehicleborne IEDs is a major threat this time, it was discussed.
 
 Sources said that the SHOs of all the police stations across the city have been asked to meet informers to keep a watch on crowded areas like markets and Metro stations. 
 
 It’s suspected that others in the gun-running syndicate may be in Delhi, Mumbai, Rajasthan or  . 
 
 Officials have also been asked to carry out anti-terror drills. Ten PCR vans manned by National Security Guardtrained drivers and commandos have been deployed at vulnerable spots. These 'Parakram' vans would be stationed at Vijay Chowk, Palika Bazar, IP Marg, Select Citywalk in Saket, Vasant Kunj Mall, Pacific Mall in Subhash Nagar, Netaji Subhash Place market and mall complex, Akshardham temple, Lotus Temple and Jhandewalan.
 
