HYDERABAD: A   alumnus, who was arrested in Chennai on the charge of duping businessmen of over Rs 100 crore by luring them to invest in solar power business, was brought to the city on Tuesday. 

 Based on the complaint lodged by  , brother of Telangana legislator Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and managing director of M/s Sushee Ventures Pvt Ltd on June 2016,   cops had registered a case against Boaz Augustin. The complaint said that Augustin, who claimed to be the chief managing director of M/s Borg Energy India Pvt Ltd, had duped the complainant of Rs 1.38 crore by promising to build a solar power project.
 
 During probe, police found out that Augustin has duped several businessmen across the country in a similar manner. After gathering prima facie evidence against the offender, cops wrote to banks and froze the accounts of the offender that had Rs 2 crore. “As of now, there are seven cases registered against Augustin at Hyderabad in Telangana; Bheemavaram, Tanuku and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, as well as Chennai and Madurai in Tamil Nadu. In addition to these civil complaints, arbitration cases and cheque bounce cases have been filed against him across the country,” additional CP (crime) Swati Lakra said at a press conference.
 
 The complainant, Narsi Reddy, an NRI, met Augustin for the first time at Harvard University seven years ago. Narsi Reddy was pursuing education at the university and Augustin also came there to pursue a diploma course in  , the additional CP said. Augustin hails from Chennai.
 
 Subsequently, Augustin contacted Narsi Reddy in October 2015 when the latter set up his own business in India. Augustin told Reddy that his company Borg Energy India Pvt Ltd was a subsidiary of Borg Inc. USA and specialises in setting up solar power units across the globe. Augustin also claimed that Borg Inc was the largest solar power equipment manufacturing company in the world and offered to finance as well as build a 3 MW solar power project at 90:10 debt equity ratio for Reddy’s company. 
 
 “The project cost was Rs 18 crore and Reddy was supposed to pay his 10 per cent share, Rs 1.8 crore, up front. Reddy initially paid Rs 90 lakh and subsequently when Augustin convinced him that the project could be upgraded to 23 MW, he gave Rs 48 lakh,” cybercrime ACP KCS Raghu Vir said. However, Narsi Reddy grew suspicious when Augustin stopped showing any interest in the project after collecting the money. Enquiries revealed that Augustin’s solar power business was a sham following which he lodged a complaint. The special team of cybercrime police of Hyderabad arrested Augustin, who was hiding in Chennai, on Monday.
 
 Forty victims of the fraud have created a Whatsapp group to work together for justice. “Several complaints have been lodged against him at Delhi, Pune and Goa. The cases will be registered now since he has been arrested,” the ACP said.
 
