By: Manoranjan Kalita

 As the time for declaration of   draws closer and admission to the   approaches, choosing the right stream is of utmost importance. Choosing the appropriate steam is of paramount significance as it sets a student on his career path. A wrong decision at this point of time may lead to lifelong unhappiness. 
 
 The wards, in some cases lacking the maturity to take a call on their future, need their parents to step in and provide guidance while taking this crucial decision. The parents need to base their decision after balancing between what they think will provide a secure future to their ward and in which direction they observe their ward's inclination to be in their formative years.
 
 One has scope of becoming administrative officers, police officers, officers in defence, employees of any central and state government establishments, corporate as well as private sector from all the three streams - science, arts and commerce.
 
 Anybody interested in becoming business executives, chartered accountants, company secretaries or private entrepreneurs may opt for the commerce stream to have an edge.
 
 The   offers more scope than the other two streams - ranging from professions of scientists, engineers, computer professionals, managers of companies and business ventures, if an MBA degree is also obtained. The stream also offers professions in the fields of medicine, veterinary science, agriculture, dairy, fishery, textile, rubber, tea etc. 
 
 Given the wider range offered by the science stream, sometimes, a student with high aptitude in social arts is enrolled into the science stream against his own inclination. Parents should be responsible enough to study the aptitude and interest of their ward, if necessary, in consultation with their school teachers, before enrolling them into science stream. Only students who show excellence in science and mathematics at the 10th-standard level must be pushed to the science stream, as the basic curriculum in the stream is covered at that level.
 
 A student's career path must be chosen based on the strength and interest exhibited by him or her at that level.
 
  (The writer is director at School of Technology, Assam Don Bosco University) 
 
