KOLKATA: A group of doctors in Kolkata, including IMA members, have decided to move court against the proposed Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Bill, 2017. 

 At a convention held on Friday, it was decided that a core committee of senior medics will be formed to seek legal options. It will also write to the IMA in New Delhi, the state government and the governor opposing the bill and the state IMA’s decision to support it. A protest rally has also been planned on April 14.
 
 IMA members, along with doctors not part of the national body, had gathered to protest the bill at Rotary Sadan. Coming down heavily on the IMA state unit leadership for supporting the bill, the doctors declared that they will initiate legal action against the bill.
 
 “This bill is an unnecessary one which puts doctors under pressure. Doctors are already liable to be charged under the Consumer Protection Act, IPC and by the West Bengal   Council. This new bill adds to the list and forces them to pay more compensation, which is unfair. More importantly, the new proposed bill puts every clinical move under the scanner and holds doctors responsible for them. It is impossible to function under these circumstances,” said RK Dubey, president of the IMA’s south Kolkata unit.
 
 “This is a sad period for the entire medical fraternity. We have never felt more insecure, threatened and disheartened in our careers. Sadly, patients’ kin are now dictating terms and questioning clinical decisions,” said cardiologist Sunip Baneree.
 
 IMA’s West Bengal state secretary Shantanu Sen, however, denounced the move. “The IMA state chapter has supported the bill for it is an attempt to stop extortion in the name of treatement. The bill isn’t against doctors. The IMA West Bengal has 16,000 registered members and 171 branches. Only one branch and a few doctors are opposing it,” he said.
 
 Pointing out legal loopholes in the bill, Dr Fuad Halim said it sought to unlawfully restrict corporate hospitals from fixing their own rates, which was not tenable in a court of law. “The Companies Act permits them to have their own charges. It can’t be fixed by the government,” said Halim. He added that even though the proposed bill repeals the earlier act, it mentions nothing about the Clinical Establishment Act of 1950. “In effect, it means that the 1950 act is now in force,” pointed out Halim.
 
 Gynaecologist Debashish Bhattacharya, an IMA member from Raniganj, added: “The bill has thrown open the floodgates and seems to have given everyone a licence to have a go at doctors. We are being abused and threatened without any fault,”
 
 
