GURUGRAM: Two days after a 26-year-old Sikkimese woman was gangraped by three men in a moving car, police interrogated her friend Lohit who had gone with her to watch a movie in  , Delhi. According to police, Lohit claimed that he had met her for the first time on Friday, and had been in touch with her only through Facebook and Whatsapp before that. Police on Tuesday also interrogated eight other people, including her Facebook friends and the cab driver who had dropped her in Gurgaon.

 A police officer, who is privy to the investigation, said the statements of six out of nine people, who had been quizzed on Tuesday, were recorded. Police are yet to get any leads in the case so far.
 
 “Lohit, who is from Shahdra in Delhi, had met her for first time that day (Friday evening), and knew her through Facebook and Whatsapp only. 
 
 He told police that she had come to Connaught Place to meet him and spent some time with him. He said she also had borrowed some cash from him, saying she had run out money. He didn’t divulge any other details,” said an investigating officer. 
 
 The woman had said that she met Lohit around 5pm on Friday evening. The two went for a movie show between 7.30pm and 10pm. 
 
 Afterwards, the two had a meal and drinks till midnight, when the woman took an Ola cab back to Gurgaon along with her friend. Sometime between 1.30am and 2am on Saturday, as she walked home after being dropped off nearby, three men emerged, forced her into a Swift DZire, drove off and raped her for more than five hours.
 
 The cyber cell, according to investigators, has collected call details of the   survivor and his friend. With the help of CCTV footage, the special investigation team (SIT) is tracking the route of the Swift Dzire that was used to commit the crime.
 
 “Today (on Tuesday), we arranged a counseling session for the   who is still under trauma. SIT and other technical teams have launched separate investigations,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said.
 
 Meanwhile, Gurgaon police faced huge embarrassment on Tuesday when they went to Medanta Hospital after receiving a tip-off that two youths who resembled the sketch of the accused were admitted to the hospital. However, after reaching there, the rape survivor denied that they were the accused.
 
 
