GURUGRAM: Not too long ago, almost everyone used to   a dress for   or   events at school. Every town had a few stores offering dresses and make-up on rent, but that was it. Fast forward to 2017, and there are half-a-dozen start-ups operating in the rental wear space. Only, they serve more than just wacky   for fancy dress competitions.

 Flyrobe, Wrapd, Swishlist and LibeRent are a few of the companies operating in this category, whose rise is driven by increased mobility of millennial customers, coupled with space crunch and lifestyle shift. Neeraj Vadhera, owner of Wrapd, says over the past couple of years, people have become more accepting of the idea of renting a dress.
 
 “People are renting clothes more than ever right now, as they are more comfortable with the idea. There are several reasons why someone rents. In my opinion, it’s more due to shortage of space than money, especially in cities like Delhi,” said Vadhera. Most of her customers are 20-something millennials living in small rented accommodations, who are short on space and time.
 
 Another reason why people rent clothes is to stand out, especially on a ceremonial occasion like a wedding invite. “Every body follows celebrities on Instagram and know what they are wearing. A lot of it is designerwear, which is out of reach of most people. Hence, renting is an option,” said Shreya Mishra, co-founder, Flyrobe. She added it also offers designers a platform for experiential marketing and increase their reach.
 
 Millennials are banking on rentals not just for clothes, but also for bikes, cars, yachts, appliances, furniture, fitness equipment, holiday equipment, storage space and much more. They are feeding the   in the e-commerce rental space, serving various categories.
 
 According to data tracking firm Traxcn, there are 817 rental e-com start-ups in the country, with 255 of them based in the NCR. So far, in 2016, these start-ups have received $145 mn in funding, of which, the figure for NCR firms alone was around $9.7 mn. 
 
 One of the most active categories in the online rental space is furniture, with players like Rentickle, Rentmojo, Fabrento and Furlenco. Vineet Chawla, co-founder of Rentickle, says these startups are driven by a demand for easy and convenient renting options. A lot of young professionals and newly-married couples are choosing to rent their furniture instead of buying, as it gives them the freedom to move around without much baggage, especially if the job entails frequent shuttling between countries and cities. For others, it’s also a testing ground for items they are hesitant to splurge on.
 
 “A few months ago, I rented an oval-shaped chair from Rentickle, something I wanted, but was not sure of buying. I’m now certain of buying it,” said Nishchal Mittal, who works with Shuttl in  . Mittal says he sees more of his friends renting furniture in the near future. Rentickle expects to grow by 7-10 times this fiscal. They also plan to launch categories beyond furniture, such baby products (prams and cots), fitness equipment and camping gear. 
 
 An unique rental category is storage space, where start-ups such as Boxmyspace, Storemore and Boxme are offering space to people to store stuff they do not need immediately, but don’t want to part with either. Rentals also work great for items one uses occasionally, such as renting a yacht for a party, camping equipment for a holiday, a treadmill for a short time and luxury bikes for weekend road trips.
 
 “We see a lot of customers renting luxury bikes over weekends or for road trips. These are mostly young people in the age bracket 20-35, who do not want to spend money on a Harley, but want to experience riding one,” said Rishabh Malik, co-founder, Droom, which reports growth of 10-12% every quarter. 
 
 Malik however said even today, only around 5% of Indians own a vehicle, so there is a vast market for ownership, while vehicle rentals is restricted to a few. Inhibitions still remain about hygiene and social perception and the success of the business model largely depends on how players address these concerns. “People still doubt if they will get the outfit on a particular date, and have grave concerns about cleanliness. They want to see and touch an outfit before renting it, which is why we decided to have an offline presence to make the customer feel comfortable,” said Vadhera.
 
