NASHIK: Fluctuations in the day and night temperatures continued to bring hot and sultry afternoons and relatively   in the city for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday. 

 The maximum temperature was just below 30 degree celsius on Thursday, and it was like a summer afternoon. Air conditioners and fans were on inside offices and homes. The common sight of Nashikites moving around with heavy woollens has gone missing during day time. 
 
 Nights are cooler, although the minimum temperature is hovering around 12.6 degrees, which is about 3 degrees above normal.
 
 According to the   (IMD), the fluctuation in the temperatures is due to the partially cloudy weather condition across central India following the recent cold wave. It has forecast similar weather conditions for the next two-three days. 
 
 “Nashik’s day temperature was constantly around 30-degree C mark even during the recent cold wave conditions when the lowest minimum temperature touched the 5.6-degree mark. This means that the day temperature is still moving around average. The fluctuation is mostly in the night temperature. For the last three-four days, the city is recording minimum temperature at least 3 degree above normal,” said R B Mankar, senior weather observatory officer from Nashik. 
 
 According to him, the minimum temperature started increasing a bit this week, following an increase in humidity due to cloudy weather conditions. The relative humidity during day time was 63% on Thursday while it came down to 31% by evening. 
 
 According to private weather forecast website Skymet, the temperatures over central and north Maharashtra are likely to increase significantly due to the anti-cyclone persisting over the region.
 
 “Winds over south Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, south Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and north Maharashtra will be blowing from the east and southeast directions. These winds are relatively warmer and humid in nature as compared to dry and cold northwesterly winds that have been blowing over these states till now,” says the website. 
 
