The actors of upcoming TV show, ' , were brimming with curiosity when they visited the Bombay Times office on an afternoon when the work was on in full swing. Fresh out of college, they play characters in their first job at a publishing house. The storyline revolves around the mad situations they get into, in their quest to achieve professional success and personal goals. The actors had done their homework on how the media functions, but the encounter with team Bombay Times gave them a taste of the ‘real thing’. The youngsters witnessed the newsroom in full steam — the design team slugging it out with the page layouts, the reporters frantically checking facts on the phone and the editing team, in the midst of all this chaos, getting on with their job.

 The first question  , who plays JD on the show, asked was, “So, what’s the latest gossip?”, to which the reporters rolled their eyes. So, did they get some gossip? Well, let’s just say that the actors went back satisfied and a bit wiser than when they walked in. The cast was very interested in knowing how the journalists functioned, and  , who plays Sunny on the show, asked a journalist, “Does this job ever get boring?” To this, the reporter replied, “The work is challenging, but not one bit boring!”
 
 Talking about their perception about journalism and the life of scribes, Anuj said, “It’s not as easy as it looks. You may get all sorts of news — good and bad. The question is, how do you deal with these stories.” Rishabh added, “I had a notion that journalists were quite serious. However, that impression changed after I visited this office. Even with such pressures, you people seem to be quite chilled out and sorted.” 
 
 Haresh Raut, who plays Ranjan, noted, “I was fascinated by the kind of work these journalists do. I felt privileged that I could learn so much from team BT. A lot of effort and creativity go into bringing out the edition. One thing I learnt after this visit is that all the journalists are extremely enthusiastic and passionate about their jobs.”
 When asked if   had learnt photography for her character — she plays Sam, a photographer, on the show — she said, “Now, I at least know how to hold the camera right. Earlier, I was clueless even about that. I hope I will become a better photographer during the course of the show.”
 
 The cast also features  , who will be seen as Riya, a girl who has returned to India from abroad. No one, except for her boss who is also her uncle, is aware that her father owns the magazine they are working for.
 
 'Aadat Se Majboor', which launches on October 3, will air Monday to Friday at 7.30 pm on Sony SAB.
 
