KOLKATA: A   has erupted over   and this time it is not two corporate biggies who are engaged in the battle. The Bengal government has accused the Centre of encroaching on its territory as the   (NDDB) under the Union ministry of agriculture begins marketing fresh milk and other milk-based products under the   brand name in Bengal from Saturday .Bengal already has a statecontrolled entity,  , which markets fresh milk and other milk-based products under the Mother Dairy brand name.
 
 The state government has accused the Centre of reneg ing on previous agreements and is seeking legal opinion from leading solicitor firm Sanderson and Morgan.
 
 The iconic Mother Dairy brand was created in 1970 under Operation Flood. While the brand is owned by NDDB nationally, in 1996, the board entered into an agreement with Bengal government whereby the state-owned Mother Dairy Calcutta got exclusive rights to use the brand name to sell fresh milk in the state.
 
 Now, NDDB's subsidiary , Mother Dairy Fruit and Vegetable (P) Ltd, will market fresh milk, dahi, lassi and ice-cream in Bengal under the Mother Dairy brand and also set up 100 exclusive retail outlets across the state. Mother Dairy Calcutta has 450 outlets in the state. When contacted, ani mal husbandry de partment secretary B P Gopalika told TOI that the state government will take up the issue with NDDB. “They cannot open showrooms under the Mother Dairy brand in Bengal. As per our agreement with NDDB, neither Mother Dairy nor any of its subsidiaries can market fresh milk in Bengal. If it does so, there will obviously be conflict of interest,“ Gopalika said.
 
 The managing director of Mother Dairy Fruits and Vegetables, S Nagarajan, who was here on Thursday for the launch of fresh milk, said one shouldn't see politics behind the launch of fresh milk or exclusive outlets. “This is a business decision taken by the Mother Dairy board. We feel Bengal is a milk-deficit state but there is enough water resources here which shows it has a huge scope. So we can contribute in our own way .This will be good for Bengal,“ he said.
 
 Nagarajan said the NDDB firm would use a new brand, Dailycious, to sell the fresh milk in Bengal. Mother Dairy (Delhi) uses this brand for dairy whiteners in other markets. “It's true in 1996 there was an agreement between NDDB and the West Bengal government according to which we cannot sell milk under the Mother Dairy brand in Bengal and that is why we are doing this under the Dailycious brand,“ he said.
 
