THANE: Election affidavits filed by prominent crorepati corporators who are testing their luck again in the   Municipal Corporation ( ) have seen neat triple or more increase in their   since 2012. 

 Several netas, inlcuding former mayor H S Patil from Shiv Sena, Najeeb Mulla from NCP, Devram Bhoir from Sena to name a few have seen their fortunes rising during their stint as corporators in the TMC house. The netas attribute the same to gradual escalation of   and inflation over the last few years. 
 
 Senior leader Devram Bhoir, who has shown Rs 7 crore assets during his previous filing nomination in 2016 for the 51A seat in Balkum has now provided his total wealth worth to be around Rs 12 crore. Meanwhile, former mayor H S Patil has also seen a steep rise in his material assets from Rs 2 crore in 2012 to Rs 17 crore in 2017. 
 
 Independent candidate Sudhakar Chavan also saw a near four-fold increase from Rs 9 crore to Rs 39 crore since 2012. 
 
 Activists have raised questions over this sudden rise in the material wealth of corporators after assuming power in the TMC. "It is surprising to note that corporators' income sees a sidden rise as they ascend the power seats. Such meteoric rise in their wealth is not just commendable but also reeks of suspicion," said an activist.
 
 It may be noted the TMC corridors have been accused to have encouraged a cartel of extortionists that has been exploiting the system and depriving the city of its development over the years. 
 
 There was also a notable rise in wealth shown by BJP leader and standing commitee chairman Sanjay Waghule from assets worth Rs 67 lakh five years ago to double by the end of 2016 while recently included neta Narayan Pawar, an agriculturist by profession, has shown a staggering wealth creation of Rs 6.74 crore. 
 
 Meanwhile, netas attributed the jump to inflation and those with investments in real estate said the value of the same increased notably in the last few years. NCP’s Mulla, who has had a string of assets in real estate showed a jump in his wealth from Rs 3 crore in 2012 to Rs 23 crore now. 
 
 Sena candidate Purvesh Sarnaik, who is contesting the polls for the first time this year has shown his asset worth to be Rs 11.02 crore.
 
 Affidavits of a few panels were yet to uploaded by the civic election department which included some heavy weights including Sena leader Naresh Mhaske and former standing committee chairman, fellow corporator Jaishree Ravindra Phatak, to name a few. 
 
 
