A young   was praised by many for the portrayal of the mother of two kids, in the National Award winning film Kaaka Muttai, two years ago. Her bold yet charming Vaidehi in her Malayalam debut Jomonte Suvisheshangal also was well-received. And no, it’s not just through some conventional pretty girl looks that the actress won the hearts of audience in cinema. Aishwarya, whose next film in Malayalam is with Nivin Pauly, speaks to Kochi Times about how she fought stereotypes, her upcoming projects and more: 

 
 
 I had signed Sakhavu even before I took up Jomonte Suvisheshangal, but the latter released first. I play a Communist called Janaki, and I have two looks in the film—one of a 65-year-old woman and the other, of a young girl, in the flashback portion. I guess Nivin also has about four to five looks in the film.
 
 And, playing the elderly woman was no cakewalk. I am just about 26 years old now and for me to enact a 65-year-old needed conscious, careful effort. Janaki hardly talks. She is dull, stressed out and weak. Portraying the character with this state of mind and the body language wasn’t easy.
 I didn’t know much about Nivin before I worked in this project. But once we got to know each other, I realised that he is a great co-star.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. It’s a political crime drama based on a real story and I play Asha Gawli, a gangster-turned-politician in it. She is still alive and is also a big don in Maharashtra. I can’t reveal anything more about the project at this moment. I was a bit nervous, and I am not an expert in Hindi either. But thanks to the crew who kept me extremely comfortable, I could perform quite well.
 
 
 
 
 When I started out, I was getting many good offers but at the same time, there were also certain comments that I came across, like ‘You are not heroine material, you are not fair like the regular heroines.’ Yes, I am dusky, not fair. So, my complexion didn’t fit the conventional profile of a heroine. I speak Tamil and for some reason that too was a problem! Anyway, there were so many reasons for people to feel that I am not fit to be a heroine. Then, I felt I should prove otherwise and started taking my career very seriously.
 
 Of course there were moments in my life when I too felt that I might not probably make it in the industry. Whenever I thought I should quit, a good film came my way. That’s how cinema shaped my journey and that’s why I am still here.
 
 
 
 
 I have completed almost a week of shoot for the film, but I don’t have the liberty to talk about it. But let me say that it’s been awesome, working with Gautham’s crew. Vikram isn’t someone who became a star overnight; he has put in a lot of effort and hard work into his career. People like him definitely know the worth of where they are. I have learnt a lot from him even within this short time span.
 
 
 
 
 Oh yes, absolutely. I can’t think of being idle — I will go crazy. When I am working at a stretch, I would feel, ‘Okay, maybe I should take a break.’ But if I take even two days of break, my mind would start overthinking and I would be disturbed. Actually, it’s not just about shooting — I need to do something or the other all the time. I have this constant need to be active and then I step out, for shopping or just check out people, or window shop. I would just take my car and go out and keep myself busy.
 
 
 
 
 Sadly, no. For more than five years, I have not been getting many opportunities to dance, so I’m a bit rusty. When I danced recently for a few award shows, I felt it’s become so much tougher for me. I am not a trained dancer – I have tried learning various forms, but just for a year or two. I wish I could start dancing again, and claim my style back.
 
 
 
 I haven’t signed anything in Malayalam after Sakhavu. I have an Atharva film Gemini Ganeshanum Suruli Rajanum in Tamil.
 
 
 
 
