SURAT: The district administration of Dang has formed a district tourism committee (DTC) to take up phase-wise development of tourism spots and sites across the tribes-dominated district, including Gujarat’s only hill station, Saputara.

 In a first meeting chaired by district collector   on Thursday, the DTC earmarked Rs6.50 crore for the infrastructural development of tourist attractions in Saputara, Don Hill station and other spots across the district.
 
 The DTC has earmarked Rs 2 crore for beautification of the lake at Ahwa, which is the district headquarters. The lake will be beautified along with setting up of boat rides and other tourist amenities. 
 
 Apart from this, Rs 4.50 crore has been earmarked for the development of Sunrise Point at Saputara, development of Mall Road, Renkdi Bazaar, pheripheral development of the new lake at Saputara, Chankhal village development, and providing a solution to the drinking water shortage during summer by constructing a small dam at Borkheti in Saputara. The money will also finance desilting of the river passing close to the Pimpri-Chichinagavtha main road, development of the Don hill station as a tourism site and   camp site in Dang. 
 
 Dang collector, Mukesh Thakkar, said owners of private lands near the tourism sites can convert their agricultural land into non-agricultural land with changes in revenue laws made by the state government. “The district administration will help those seeking to convert their lands to boost tourism in the district,” Thakkar said. 
 
 MLA  , who was present in the DTC meeting, said he had suggested some important pro-tourism points. 
 
 “These include setting up of a parking facility at the Giradhod, which is known as Niagra of Dang, renovation of the Saputara auditorium, recarpeting and reconstruction of the interior roads in Saputara etc,” Gavit said. 
 
 He further said that, besides Saputara, Dang also has many tourist places yet to be explored. “Creating tourism opportunities in the area will certainly increase employment opportunities for the tribal people,” Gavit said.
 
