The use of   has declined by 3% in the last 10 years, the latest health survey conducted by the government across the country showed.However, the decrease in contraceptive prevalence does not add up with other indicators in the space like decline in total fertility rate and increased awareness about use of contraceptives. The data also showed an increasing trend in use of pills and condoms.

 According to the fourth National Family Health Survey-4, conducted on 6 lakh households, prevalence of contraceptives dropped from 56.3% in 2005-06 to 53.5% in 2014-15. While the use of modern methods also declined marginally, the decline was mainly triggered by a drop in sterilisation rate.
 
 Male sterilisation, which was already low, dropped from 1% to 0.3% between NFHS-3 and NFHS-4. Moreover, rate of female sterilisation also witnessed a decline from 37.3% to 36%.
 
 Use of modern methods dropped from 48.5% to 47.8% during the period. Health ministry officials said the "incongruous" data was mainly because of sociocultural reasons. "People often hesitate to answer questions related to use of contraceptives. We do not get correct responses and often silence is taken for negative. We agree that the data is incongruous," an official said.
 
 Health secretary C K Mishra said, "The health ministry will conduct a detailed study to assess the situation so that it can take immediate steps if required."
 
 India's total fertility rate (TFR), reflective of the country's population control measures, dropped from 2.7 children per woman in NFHS-3 to 2.2 children in the latest survey. The survey also noted a considerable decline in the TFR in each of the 30 states in India.
 
 The unmet needs for family planning also declined over the last decade from 13.9% to 12.9%. India has been attracting ere criticism from the in severe criticism from the international community for its poor mix of contraceptive methods. The huge share of female sterilisation coupled with poor adoption of other modern contraceptive methods have raised concerns about women's reproductive rights and health.
 
 Of late, the government has taken several steps to improve the coverage and create more awareness about family planning, mainly in rural areas. To ensure greater thrust on spacing methods, the health ministry has also created specific schemes for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) to ensure spacing in births. Under the schemes, ASHAs provide counselling to newly married couples to ensure delay of two years before having their first child after marriage and couples who already have a child are encouraged to have a spacing of three years after the birth of the first child. The ministry is currently implementing such schemes in 18 states.
 
 This is also reflected in the findings of the survey. It shows health workers talked to more female non-users about family planning now than a decade ago.
 
 The government is also trying to increase the basket of contraceptives and making them available under the national family planning programme.
 
 
 
