PANAJI: Since the Goods and   (GST) was launched, chartered accountants and taxation consultants are spending sleepless nights explaining the intricate details of the GST to their clients. With the clock ticking and the given July 31 deadline for income-tax returns looming, chartered accountants and consultants are getting additional hands on board to resolve customer queries.

 “Over the last few days the calls have kept coming about queries related to rates and service codes. Then there are doubts over rates for bundled services and then there are grey areas. All of this brings quite a lot of people to my office,” chartered accountant and Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry president   said.
 
 While some accountants claim to have responded to late night panic calls, others complain about being asked to clarify rumours about GST being circulated on WhatsApp groups. Despite repeatedly addressing queries about provisional ids and final GSTN registration, the same questions keep coming up.
 
 For director of Jamsons Computers Private Limited, Muzaffar Kadri, the sole distributor for Tally ERP in Goa, working hours have stretched to late night.
 
 “There is a huge rush to purchase the software and people are also coming to us for software updates, which they had not done for a year. There has been a 50% increase in footfalls at my shop. We are now open even on Sundays, sometimes till 11pm, addressing service issues,” Kadri said.
 
 Given that GST has just been rolled out, initial teething problems are expected and some amount of confusion has been factored in by taxation experts. Experts also know that with a higher degree of compliance, there will be some amount of panic among commercial establishments and traders.
 
 “At least 80% of the services were not registered, but because of the reverse charge mechanism, a lot of people are compelled to come on board GST. It will be hectic for us as compliance will go up, and compliance is time bound,” taxation consultant   said.
 
 The fact that GST has rolled out just after companies have finalized their accounts and just days before the deadline to file IT returns has dealt another blow to chartered accountants and tax consultants.
 
 “This is the time for filing of income tax returns and audits of accounts and we find that our energy is diverted. It is like deciding between urgent and important and audits are taking a backstage,”   said.
 
