Mumbai: Next year, the BMC plans to change the management of the   (BDL) museum in Byculla and bring in a new set of professionals to maintain it. “The museum was set up from public funds,” said BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta. “We plan to revoke the agreement and will follow best practices to maintain it.” 

 The BMC’s announcement during the civic chief’s budget speech on Wednesday caught Tasneem Mehta, the museum’s managing trustee and honorary director, by surprise. “It’s a bit of a shock to me,” said Mehta. “There was no communication that they were unhappy with us. I thought we had a good board meeting in October where the commissioner was supportive and even gave us the funds we had requested.”
 
 But a senior BMC bureaucrat said, “It was not a sudden decision. It was under consideration ever since the civic house members demanded the agreement be re-opened in 2015. We had also sent notices to the museum management.” The official added that they may consider retaining lower-rung professionals working at the museum. A provision of Rs 5 crore has been proposed as a corpus fund and Rs 2 crore for maintenance of the museum for the next one year. 
 
 Mehta said the trustees were highly-respected professionals in the arts and culture sphere. “Pheroza Godrej is former chairperson of NGMA’s advisory committee, filmmaker   is highly respected in the world of art and culture,   was former dean of JNU’s School of Art & Aesthetics and Rajan Jayakar set up the high court museum.” 
 
 In 2003, the BMC entered into a tripartite agreement with the   and the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to restore and revitalize BDL. Under the agreement, which expires in February 2018, a board of trustees was appointed with Mehta as managing trustee and the mayor as chairperson. Since then, the museum has been embroiled in a number of controversies. In 2015, vandals claiming allegiance to the MNS protested against a fashion show by tearing down curtains and banners on the premises and an expansion plan was scrapped after groups protested that it would encroach on a playground. 
 
 Artist Reena Kallat, who has exhibited her work at BDL, credited Mehta for the “incredible transformation” of the museum building and programming. And trustee Shyam Benegal added that before it was restored, it was in very poor condition. “All that has changed because we have had the best people working on it,” he said.
 
