ALWAR: Chief minister   is leaving no stone unturned to win the   scheduled for April 9. The by-polls are being viewed as a test of the popularity of the three-year old  . Defeat in the by-elections may give her detractors in the party to demand for a change of leadership before the assembly election in 2018.

 Dholpur is the home turf of chief minister Vasundhara Raje, as she was married to Hemant Singh of the erstwhile ruling family. But the BJP had won only one of the four seats in the district in the 2013 assembly election. BJP could only win from the reserved constituency of Baseri, while Dholpur went to BSP, and Bari and Rajakhera to Congress.
 
 The by-election is necessitated following the conviction of former BSP MLA BL Kushwaha in a murder case leading to his disqualification from the assembly. While the BJP has fielded Kushwaha’s wife, Shobha Rani Kushwaha, a green horn in politics to cash in on the popularity of her husband, the Congress has fielded veteran Bhanwarilal Sharma, a five time MLA, giving a tough fight to the BJP. There are 15 candidates in the fray including 12 Independents and a Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate.
 
 Almost all of Raje cabinet has been taking turns campaigning in Dholpur wooing all caste and community groups with all kinds of promises in a high voltage campaign.
 
 The Congress has meanwhile accused the ruling party of misuse of the election machinery and approached the election commission.
 
 The election commission has ordered the transfer of former MLA BL Kushwaha from Dholpur Jail to Ganganagar on complaints by Congress party.
 
 The chief minister is personally monitoring the situation there, talking to every caste and community leader and party leaders to ensure a decent victory for the party.
 
 The Congress’ hopes rest on the Brahmin and minority votes while BJP banks on the backward Kushwahas which constitute largest caste group in the constituency. The BJP reasons that with a BJP government in the state, an MLA form the ruling party could bring development to the constituency while the Congress retorts that a government could not deliver on its promises in the last three years needs to be taught a lesson.
 
 A win in Dholpur will act as a morale booster for the demoralized Congress and PCC president   personally. It will set the tone for the assembly election in 2018.
 
