Panaji: When fish was scarce during the monsoon and vegetables from Goa’s neighbouring states were hardly available, the local folk relished the taikulo, kuddukichi bhaji, terro and other wild vegetables. Now, Rural Development Agency (RDA) is promoting this wholesome food for the urban populace. Easy availability of vegetables from other states and the lack of time to harvest these vegetables from the backyard is slowly leading to their neglect.  In a bid to promote organic food for urban consumers and farming activity for rural women, RDA has roped in local self-help groups in its scheme to bring more vegetables to the food basket. The agency will sell these seasonal vegetables with the co-operation of Goa Horticulture Development Corporation at four of its kiosks in Panaji market, near the secretariat, Altinho, and Tonca. “RDA’s attempt has received a good response from SHGs in Hassapur and Casarvornem villages in Pernem as well as Guirim and Aldona in Bardez talukas. We are also trying to convince private vendors to sell this organic produce,” RDA director Vasudev Shetye said. The vegetables fetch a reasonably good price and finding many urban buyers . “They are priced at Rs 60 per kg or Rs 15 for 250g,” Shetye said. The vegetables grow naturally in the countryside. They are preferred by discerning consumers looking for food grown without chemicals and fertilizers. Each of the vegetables have nutrients that benefit health. “Some are anthelmintic as their consumption kills ring and round worms,” a botanist said. The RDA has requested the government to acquire land for setting up horticulture kiosks at prominent places along highways and major roads. Women vendors presently squat by the roadside selling their produce. Wild fruits such as zambllam, churnam are unheard of by some youth in urban areas. “This appears to be the last generation of women who sell these items,” a botanist said. The agency is also trying to open counters in South Goa through the cooperation of SHGs, who harvest vegetables and fruits growing in the wild. “We are trying to promote organic farming of vegetables which are produced on a large-scale in remote rural areas,” Shetye said.