DEHRADUN: Angry at the absence of   like road and water in their area, people of as many as 46 villages in   have decided not to cast their vote in the forthcoming  . The decision to abstain from voting has been taken by 18 villages in  , 12 villages in Jagheshwar block, eight villages in Someshwar block and eight villages in Salt block of Almora district. The decision would impact voter turnout in the four constituencies of the area where these villages are located. Villagers claim that they have only been hearing promises in election after election with no work having been done on the ground.

 District magistrate Savin Bansal said that he has sent his zonal and sector magistrates in field to convince the angry public to vote for election for sake of development.
 
 Jagat Singh, gram Pradhan of Ramtola village of Bhainsiya Chana block said, “Most of the houses in my village were razed down in the natural landslide disaster triggered by heavy rain in 2010. Since then, many people are still staying in their relatives’ houses while the people of scheduled caste communities are living in schools. Since then, such incidents are happening in our village time and again, hence we have been demanding relocation to safer place but the state government has done nothing in this regard. So we will not vote this time.”
 
 Savin Bansal told TOI, “Bhainsiyachana is quite susceptible to natural disasters, especially the Budadhar belt. Shifting the residents to nearby forest land was an option, but the forest department has not given clearance for it. Other than this, the state government could not arrange all the funds from its own sources, so they are still waiting for financial assistance from the centre.”
 
 Krishna Prasad , gram Pradhan of Bajela village of Jagheshwar block said, “We have been demanding one road connecting all the nearby villages for past ten years but it is not happening. People have to walk 15 km for one and half hour to Dholajivi or Nemi for basic amenties or to rush the ill persons to hospitals. Tired of appealing , we have decided to teach the political parties a lesson by not voting them in this election.”
 
 Gram Pradhan of Bainsali village of Ranikhet block, Balam Singh was unhappy that the road in his village which was constructed in 1972 was no longer functional and commuting became a huge issue for them. So he said, their village too joined hands with others in abstaining from voting this election.
 
 District magistrate explained by saying, “The issues related to water and roads would not be solved totally in hill areas. At some places the land permission from forest has stuck stumble block and in other the fund could not be cleared or transferred due to implementation of model code of conduct. Similar is the case with the water issues. So we are convincing people by showing them the documents that their matters are progressing but it takes time to get things done.”
 
