MUMBAI: Reiterating its concern for ‘sons of the soil’ ahead of civic polls in Mumbai, the BJP-Sena government announced on Tuesday that only those with domicile certificates would qualify for   licences in the state. For domicile, a person must have resided in Maharashtra for at least 15 years.

 The policy was cleared by the state cabinet but a note of dissent from the  , primarily transport minister Diwakar Raote, has prompted the government to refer it to a cabinet sub-committee for further revisions.
 
 Coming ahead of elections to the country’s richest civic body, the new hawking policy is meant to showcase the regime’s commitment to nativism. However, the Sena which consistently harps on the local-versus-outsider theme, appears wary of the   stealing the credit and making a dent in its constituency within the working class. Hence it has sought further clarity in rules to ensure that interests of domicile holders are protected.
 
 Drafted on the basis of guidelines framed by the central government under the national street vending policy, it caps number of licences in proportion to the population. 
 
 Under the rules, only 2.5% of the population can be given licences to hawk; in Mumbai it would translate into about 2.5 lakh licences. Currently, there are 15,000 licensed hawkers in the city.
 
  has so far handed out over one lakh applications for hawking licences, of which only 99,000 have been filed. The Sena has insisted that the remaining licences too should be reserved for those with domiciles.
 
 “The sub-committee will look into all these issues, and the policy will most probably be cleared before the code of conduct sets in,” said a source.
 
 Since the rule to issue licences only to those with a domicile certificate is a new addition, more names may have to be axed from the 99,000 applications received, said civic officials.
 
 Raote, who is championing the cause of the ‘sons of the soils’, had also made it compulsory for auto and taxi drivers who want permits to be domicile holders and know Marathi.
 
 Incidentally, the policy covers the night bazaars which Aaditya Thackeray had mooted in Mumbai.
 
 Under the hawking policy, every urban local body will have to form a town vending committee and conduct surveys, demarcate hawking, no-hawking and restricted hawking zones, and allot pitches to hawkers. Night bazaars, food markets, fish markets and other themed markets will come up at different spots, according to space allocated by municipal corporations.
 
 As high court orders do not permit cooking on roads, the policy says pre-cooked food will have to be sold so that ‘khau gallis’ can be regularized.
 
 
