THANE: A 27-year-old paedophile from Navi Mumbai was sentenced to four years' rigorous imprisonment by a special court for repeatedly outraging the modesty of a 5-year-old girl from the neighbourhood. 

 Sessions judge   convicted   after the girl identified her tormentor and narrated the facts before court during a three-year trial.
 
 Sutar would sweet-talk her to his house and on the pretext of playing a new game, undress and abuse her. He would regularly gift her snacks, chocolates and fruits. Her mother observed a sudden change in her behaviour in March 2014. 
 
 "Her grades started slipping and she kept forgetting things like her pencil, tiffin box or eraser in school. Her books would be almost in tatters,'' the complaint stated. 
 
 The mother approached her class teacher, who echoed her concern. 
 
 "In fact, the teacher too pointed out that since a month, the girl was under-performing and would always carry fresh fruits, snacks and chocolates in her school bag. The teacher, in fact, asked her mother if the family was in the fruit business,'' the complaint said.
 
 On reaching home, the parents took their daughter into confidence and asked her who gave her with those eatables daily. After a long time, she informed her parents that ' ' would give it to her after taking her to his house and playing 'a dirty game'.
 
 The parents filed a complaint with the Rabale police against Sutar. The judge recorded that the testimony of all four witnesses stood unshaken even in cross-examination.
 
 While the defence claimed innocence and denied that Sutar knew the victim,   ruled, "There is no reason for a young child of five to implicate the accused. The victim who was eight at the time of deposition clearly narrated the incidents and identified the accused."
 
 The judge said, "Undoubtedly, offences against children are serious. Considering the act of the accused, which was repeated and premeditated, coupled with the age of the victim, the sentence will meet the ends of justice."
 
