Madurai: The family of a 22-year-old man, who died under mysterious circumstances in Iran, has filed a habeas corpus petition before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, seeking a direction to the government to bring his body back. On this, the court ordered notice to the external affairs secretary and Tirunelveli superintendent of police and adjourned the case by a week.

 When the case came up for hearing before a division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and S S Sundar on Wednesday, the petitioner B Sankarapandi from Tirunelveli told the court that his son, Ponraj was a marine engineer. He was sent to Lian Ocean Star Shipping Company, Port of Bushehr, Iran for a job through agent Narayanasami of Karaikal on November 14 last year. 
 
 On August 20 morning, the agent informed the petitioner over phone that Ponraj along with eight workers were admitted in a hospital for kidney ailments as they were under the influence of alcohol. By noon, he communicated to Sankarapandi that Ponraj and four workers were dead. 
 
 Suspecting something amiss in his son’s death, the petitioner knocked on the doors of the district collector immediately. In his petition to the collector, he said Ponraj was a teetotaller and was in contact with him till August 19 night. His son used to complain about the food served in the company and a dispute between Indian workers and the chef of the company. It resulted in the dismissal of the chef. Later, the said chef rejoined duty on August 19. 
 
 The petitioner received a response from the government secretary with a delay of two weeks and thereafter received response from the collector on September 20. Their communications with Indian embassy in Tehran revealed a lot of discrepancies over Ponraj’s death. The embassy had said that the death was unnatural. Since the time the news of the death came, the petitioner’s wife had fallen sick. Now, the petitioner has been left in the lurch for the past one month. He did not know the exact status of his son, he said.
 
 
