Panaji: A slew of exit   conducted in five states which went to polls recently, suggested that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would emerge as the single largest party and be close to getting the magic figure of 21 if not more, in what looks like a hung assembly. 

 The   of the assembly  , held on February 4, will be out on Saturday.
 
 In Uttar Pradesh, every agency put BJP in the front, while Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance came in the second spot and Bahujan Samaj Party was third. 
 
 In Punjab, there was unanimity that Akali Dal-BJP combine would face a meltdown, but no consensus emerged on whether Congress or Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party would finish in the front.
 
 In Goa, while there is unanimity that BJP would emerge as the single largest party, there is no clarity about the number of seats the ruling party is expected to win. Congress, despite, the low key campaigning and infighting, seems to be seeing an upsurge. The exit polls may not have predicted Congress to come close to BJP, but they are giving the opposition party around 15 seats or so.
 
 All the three agencies which conducted the exit polls predict that AAP may open its account in Goa.
 
 India TV-C-Voter says BJP will get 15-21 seats, while Inda Today-Axis predicts it to win anywhere between 18-22 seats. India News-MRC has given a lower score of 15 seats to the saffron party.
 
 On the other hand, Congress will get as low as 10, according to India News-MRC, while it has been given 9-13 by India Today-Axis.
 
 India TV-C-Voter says Congress will trail BJP by a minimum of three seats as its exit poll predicts that it will get anywhere between 12 and 18 seats.
 
 As for AAP, the exit polls predict it to get around two seats. India Today-Axis says Kejriwal’s party may either get no seat or a maximum of two, while India TV-C-Voter suggests 0-4. India News-MRC indicated that AAP could get as many as eight seats.
 
 For the remaining seats, the exit polls say that the other parties and independents may get up to nine seats, but no party is named by them.
 
 India Today-Axis gave 4-9 seats for “others”, while the other two agencies said the others would get 2-8 and 8 seats, respectively.
 
 The smaller parties include Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), Goa Forward Party and Goa Vikas Party while some independents are also strong. A few of the independents were supported by BJP. Sources say that at least one independent will create history as till now no independent has been re-elected.
 
 Except BJP, no political party fully agrees with the outcome of the exit poll results.
 
 
