CUTTACK: The surge in saffron wave in   not only indicates BJP's growing popularity but also the electorate's anger towards   for not fulfilling their promises. 

 So far, elections have been held for 22   district, of which BJP has won 10 and BJD 12. In 2012, the ruling party had captured 19 seats with the BJP, Congress and an independent only winning one each. 
 
 This year, BJP has made inroads into BJD strongholds like Badamba, Narsinghpur, Sadar, Nischintakoili and Mahanga. Badamba is the assembly constituency of senior BJD leader and school and mass education minister Debi Prasad Mishra. He was first elected to the assembly from Badamba constituency in 1995 and since then has never lost an election from his home turf. 
 
 In the rural polls, BJP candidates have reportedly won in all three ZP zones in Badamba block and three of the four ZP seats in Narsinghpur. Locals alleged that Mishra had to pay the price of neglecting his constituency. "In the last two decades, things have turned for the worse. Kidney diseases are on the rise in Narsinghpur while there is no proper employment or education opportunity for youths. Despite being a minister, he (Debi) has not brought about any visible development in the area," said Dayanidhi Das, 63, a voter of Badamba.
 
 BJD insiders believe the party suffered due to poor management and infighting. "Instead of choosing the popular candidates as nominees, our leaders supported their own associates. This lead to internal bickering and increase in the number of rebel candidates. Even campaigning was not carried out efficiently," said a senior BJD leader on condition of anonymity. BJD insiders claim the party's position is not good in Athagarh, the stronghold of  , and Niali. 
 
 As the BJD leaders took their areas for granted, senior BJP leader Samir Dey, who lost Cuttack Lok sabha seat in 2014, is hopeful of making a comeback in 2019 general elections. 
 
 Dey was entrusted the job of overseeing BJP's rural election campaign in Cuttack district. "We have worked very hard in the last two years to improve our performance in Cuttack. Besides door-to- door campaigning, we had focused on creating awareness among people about lack of development in the area," said Dey. 
 
