MUMBAI:   has emerged as the numero uno among highest paying industries in India, with an average annual cost to company (CTC) for talent across all levels and functions at Rs 11.3 lakh, according to 2017 Salary Trends Study findings released by  , a leading HR service provider.

 In a statement, Randstad said a robust demand for experienced and qualified personnel in sales & marketing and supply chain management roles, coupled with close to 30% of jobs being posted in the 10 lakh+ category is being seen as a primary driver for the FMCG industry to emerge as the winner. 
 
 This is followed by power sector and the IT sector, where employees across all levels and functions earn average annual salaries at Rs 9.8 lakh and Rs 9.3 lakh, respectively. Pharma and healthcare, offering an average annual CTC of Rs 8.8 lakh and telecom at Rs 8.7 lakh take the fourth and fifth position in the list as India's most lucrative industries.
 
 As per the study, banking and financial institutions is at the 7th position with an average annual CTC of Rs 8.1 lakh, and E-commerce is at the 13th position with Rs 7.2 lakh average annual CTC for talent across all levels and functions. However, for senior level (15+ years of experience) and mid-level talent (6-15 years of experience), E-commerce comes out as the highest paying industry. 
 
 Location wise, Bangalore, the IT capital of India, tops the chart as the highest paying city in the country, with an average annual CTC paid for talent across all levels and functions standing at Rs 14.6 lakh. This is closely followed by Mumbai which stands at Rs 14.2 lakh, Hyderabad and   with an average annual CTC figure of Rs 13.6 lakh and Rs 13.5 lakh, respectively. Chennai (Rs 13.4 lakh), Pune (Rs 13.2 lakh) and Kolkata (Rs 11.4 lakh) are the next three in the list of top Indian cities paying the highest average salaries for professionals.
 Moorthy K. Uppaluri, MD & CEO, Randstad India said, "In a country like India where job loyalty is considerably low, salary becomes one of the most critical parameters that workforce takes into consideration while changing jobs. For employers too, it is an imperative to get the internal compensation structure right, which is primarily a function of various facets like capability, experience, location, job profile, industry of operation etc.”
 
 The Randstad Salary Trends Study 2017 analyzed 1,00,000 jobs across 20 industry verticals and 15 core functions.
 
 
