Nagpur: At a time when linear projects like roads, canals and transmission lines continue to play havoc on the future of tigers in Vidarbha, 2.5-year-old Bali, an offspring of the iconic tiger Jai, sprang a surprise by traversing around 90km from   Wildlife Sanctuary (UKWS) to reach Nagalwadi range in the buffer zone of Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), Maharashtra.

 Though the tiger has been identified as Bali, there are conflicting claims about the route it would have taken. Some wildlife lovers had also named it Santa as a Xmas tree-like image is seen on its forehead.
 
 According to Roheet Karu, who monitored tigers in Umred-Karhandla, three males Bali or Santa, Bhadra (Jaichand), Bahu and a female Barkha were born to tigress Chandi after it mated with Jai. The four cubs were first sighted with Chandi on November 14, 2014 on a cattle kill at Satighat lake in the UKWS when they were three months old.
 
 Jaichand has settled in Paoni range of UKWS, Bhadra has moved to the adjoining South Umred range. Barkha is staying put in UKWS while Bali stepped out in July 2016.
 
 “In the first week of August last year, Bali entered into conflict with humans when it made cattle kills in Kuhi range. Its presence was seen in the forest between Kuhi and Pachgaon,” says Karu.
 
 Karu claimed Bali must have entered Nagalwadi through the fragmented corridor of Tarna-Satara-Kuhi, Adam-Bhivkund-Rajola and Kanhan River-Mouda-Ramtek-Nagalwadi.
 
 “The possibility that it would have taken a route via Paoni, Adyal, Bhandara, Jamkandri, Nakadongri, Lendezari seems bleak as Bali was last sighted in December 2016 in Rajola near Mouda forest area where cattle kills were reported. The claim has also been supported by police constable Radheshyam Kamble who had seen the tiger near his farm around Mouda,” says Karu.
 
 The presence of a new tiger was being discussed among the field staff for the past three days but they could not get visuals. The confirmation came when wildlife lover and city doctor Mohammed Shariq Latif photographed Bali at 8am on Friday morning near Maharkund in Nagalwadi range.
 
 The stripe pattern of Bali has been matched by wildlife photographer Mohammed Junaid. Karu too has identified the tiger as Bali after comparing the photograph with the ones in his possession.
 
 “I was lucky to sight the tiger for around 3km. As it walked on both sides of the jungle road, the wildcat’s movement showed it was a new entrant in the area and it was exploring. Resident tigers generally mark their territory and also know waterholes in their area. But, even in the scorching heat, instead of turning towards the a nearby waterhole, the tiger moved in the opposite direction indicating it was not familiar with the area,” said Dr Shariq.
 
 “I don’t know tigers by name but I’m sure it was a new male. Currently, there are two females and two males in Saleghat and Nagalwadi,” said Dr Shariq. 
 
 Pench officials told TOI that though a new male has been found they are yet to identify the tiger from their data bank.
 
 This is the second such dispersal this year. In March, a young tigress from Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal district traversed around 50km to reach Painganga Sanctuary, also in Yavatmal district.
 
 
