KOLKATA: A crew from London took over the civic corridors even before the special security personnel assigned to mayor Sovan Chatterjee could take their position at the   headquarters on Friday. The BBC team is here to take exclusive snaps of the Council Chamber where a British councillor of   championed the cause of India’s Independence and stressed the need for a Hindu-Muslim unity. That was way back in 1945. 

 The team has chosen Kolkata to focus on Arthur Arnold Wise, the councillor and the leader of the European Union at Calcutta Corporation. Wise caught the attention of the British crew because of the Partition of India. 
 
 The British councillor, to whom Calcutta was “home”, was totally against partition of Bengal. When India became a sovereign state, Wise refused to go back to the United Kingdom and chose to stay back. A year later, in 1948, Wise joined his family in the UK. But the union lasted for only a year. Wise chose to come back to Calcutta and stayed in the city till 1949 when he decided to leave for Karachi.
 
 The BBC team tracked down Mandy, the granddaughter of Wise, to tell the tale of a British councillor who had been a ‘victim’ of Partition. Mandy, who was present with the   at the KMC headquarters on Friday, was visibly excited. “History comes alive today. I had heard so much of my grandfather and his love for Calcutta. Today, I was amazed to read some of the speeches he made as a councillor for the betterment of the city,” she said.
 
 The BBC team took help of   director Jayanta Sengupta and Arun Roy, a former KMC employee and a researcher, to find out excerpts of speeches made by Wise at KMC sessions. “Some of these speeches clearly point out the strong stance that he had taken against Partition,” said Roy.
 
 One of over 100 speeches that the British councillor delivered reflects the pain Partition had inflicted on him. “This is perhaps the greatest occasion in the life of India. She has achieved the goal of her ambition. It is an expression from the very depth of my heart and that is God be with you on that day and may you demonstrate to the world at large that having achieved what you set out to do you have now buried the hatchet and joined these two flags together — Hindustan and Pakistan,” he had said on August 5, 1947.
 
 Papers available with the KMC archive also reveal that it was Wise who first stressed the need for singing the   after each corporation meeting.
 
 
