GURUGRAM: Haryana Urban Development Authority ( ) is considering releasing some of the land acquired for developing sector 110A. Urban development authority is going to express its intent to release the land before Punjab and   by March 21 in a case related to rehabilitation of   oustees without proper documents.

 The move is likely to help in getting relief from HC for rehabilitation of oustees to complete the remaining portion of Dwarka Expressway. “The litigations have been lingering since almost a decade and it's worsening the situation for home buyers due to dual burden of rent and EMI. We hope Huda will resolve the issue to complete the remaining portion of Dwarka Expressway and benefit home buyers of project along expressway,” said founder of Reckon Mind and home buyer, Prakhar Sahay. 
 
 Satyendra Singh, one of the land owner whose land was acquired for developing sector 110A, had filed a petition before HC in September 2016 alleging that genuine oustees of Dwarka Expressway have been denied alternative plots, while allotment of alternative plots were made to general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA) holders. Petitioner had alleged that Huda had made dubious allotment on the name of GPA and SPA.
 
 Taking cognisance of it, HC in October 2016 had stayed the allotment and directed Huda to submit all the documents related allotment of plots to GPA and SPA virtually putting break on completion of the road.
 
 After several hearing and request from Huda for early resolution of the case, HC on last hearing on March 16 had directed petitioner to give his representation before Huda and urban development body was directed to address the concern of petitioner.
 
 Petitioner Satyendra Singh on Saturday met   and requested to release his land, under acquisition. Huda has assured to consider his 
 demands.
 
 “We were under impression that he (petitioner) is one of the oustees and seeks alternate plots. So in the court we had assured to settle the claim in accordance with the government policy. But the case turned out to be something different,” said Huda administrator  . Petitioner’s land was acquired for the sector development and now he wants it to be released.
 
 Huda wanted to acquire around 70 acre of to develop sector 110A, but lots of land was released from time to time following litigations from land owners. Now around 9 litigation related to release of 44 marla of plots in 4 different pockets of the sector are pending. “Singh, who is petitioner of GPA, SPA case, is one of the land owners,” said Yadav.
 
 He said Huda had release land earlier also in this sector so there would be no problem in releasing land in these pockets. “We will send a positive recommendation to head office. Decision to release the land can be taken at Chief Minister level, after getting consent we will assure court to release the land,” said Yadav adding that this will help in resolving the litigation related to Dwarka Expressway.
 
