PATNA: The state police are making all possible efforts to ensure foolproof security to Prime Minister   during his visit to Gandhi Maidan on January 5 to attend the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh.

 Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said PM Modi would land in his special plane at 11.55am and stay in the state capital for around two hours. “He will attend the function at Gandhi Maidan with other dignitaries before leaving for the airport,” the DM said, adding that the final schedule was awaited from the PMO.
 
 “Police are strictly adhering to the guidelines provided in the blue book for the PM’s security,” said City SP (Central)  . He, however, refused to disclose the number of police personnel to be deployed for PM security. But, sources said, more than 1,500 personnel would be deployed.
 
 The intelligence agencies have already issued warning that Khalistani terrorists, including those who fled from the Nabha jail, could attempt disruption during the PM’s visit. Sources also said alert about Indian Mujahideen’s (IM) sleeper cells has also been sounded, particularly after capital punishment awarded to five IM members, including Yasin Bhatkal. It was IM which had executed the serial bomb blasts in Patna during NaMo’s rally at Gandhi Maidan in October, 2013. 
 
 “He is among the most threatened global leaders and all kinds of security arrangements made for him seem less. His risk-taking behaviour of meeting people from the crowd while breaking protocols and avoiding bulletproof glasses during speech further increases our responsibility on the religious occasion,” said a top IPS official.
 
 Sources said aerial survey of the venue has been conducted and the SPG (special protection group) responsible for the PM security has been provided with aerial and ground photographs of Gandhi Maidan and surrounding buildings for planning security. 
 
 Sources also said SPG has already made one visit to Patna and another one is likely two or three days before his arrival for the ASL (advance security liaison) meeting with state police, special branch, intelligence bureau, airport officials and other agencies.
 
 The district administration on Saturday also alerted   and Hospital (PMCH),   (IGIMS) and   (IGIC) in Patna to get prepared, according to protocols.
 
 IGIMS public relation officer Perwez Ahmed Khan said medical teams have been kept on standby and a team of specialized doctors would also be present at the venue during the PM’s visit. 
 
