NOIDA:   ( ), Noida has wrote to CEO Deepak Agarwal on Saturday, with copy of letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and MLA Pankaj Singh, objecting the recent   across Noida for three months whereas earlier contracts were valid till March 31, 2017.

 According to ICC, the said renewal is in contradiction of March 17 orders of additional chief secretary (UP Housing and Urban Planning Development) stating not to award any new contracts, make any sort of payments or to take any important decisions until the new government is formed in the state. 
 
 According to ICC, there's immediate need to address roadside encroachment before renewing the parking contracts in such haste and that new parking contracts should be awarded only after new parking policy is made and only to new contractors.
 
 "We came to know through media reports on March 18, 2017 that Noida Authority has renewed 44 parking contracts from across city for another three months evan as earlier contracts were valid till March 31, 2017. There was no need to renew the parking contracts in such haste," said P S Jain, president ICC.
 
 According to Jain, additional chief secretary (UP Housing and Urban Planning Development) through its order of March 17 stipulated not to award any new contracts, payments or take important decisions until the new government is formed in the state. 
 
 "Even after this order, the renewal of the 44 parking contracts across Noida for three months was issued, which is a direct violation of the said order," said Jain who further added that the said 44 renewed contracts also violates earlier board meeting decision of Noida authority which had decided that all the existing parking contracts will be dismissed and new contracts will be awarded to new contractors who will get the parking implemented according to the regulations. "Therefore there was no need or valid reason to renew the parking contracts for three months now," said Jain. 
 
 The new parking contracts that were to be awarded were to be implemented for one single line and only at a place which was earmarked and allotted by Noida authority.
 
 However, according to ICC, current scenario is exact opposite of the proposed new regulations. "At present, parking is being done on every road, at all corners of every crossing utilising all empty spaces in the city up to 2-3 lines on the road. This affects free flow of traffic and creates a huge problem for all citizens," said Prashant Tyagi, general secretary ICC.
 
 The situation further leads to unauthorised encroachment by the road side, which according to the state government has to be removed completely said Tyagi.
 
 ICC has, therefore, requested CEO Agarwal to rectify the problem by issuing new parking policy with new rules and regulations so that roadside encroachment is completely removed.
 
 Meanwhile, according DCEO Saumya Srivastava the news of renewing 44 parking contracts is incorrect. "Have spoken to concerned officer who informs that there has been no renewal of 44 contracts. Only 12 contracts which are under tender process have been given a time extension till the tender process is completed," said Srivastava.
 
