Rs 11,000 crore – that’s the   owed to the   by builders, individuals, housing societies, and, among others, government agencies. The   has recovered Rs 4000 crore this financial year, and is hoping to meet its target of Rs 5,000 crore by March 31.

 It also plans to disconnect water supply connections of around 100 properties in the city in case the owners don’t pay up. The BMC is set to focus on recovering dues and enforcing the payment of property tax, as octroi, one of its main sources of revenue will be subsumed into the GST in July this year.
 
 The civic body has an annual budget of Rs 37,000 crore, and it depends on sources such as octroi, property tax, premium through sale of FSI etc for its revenue. Property taxes contribute around Rs 5,000 crore to the BMC’s kitty every year.
 
 According to the BMC’s  , builders are the worst offenders. These include big names such as Lokhandwala Builders, Omkar Builders and HDIL. According to BMC officers, at around Rs 60 crore, Lokhandwala Builders is the biggest defaulter. Other firms on the list include India Bulls   (Rs 29.73 crore), RNA Builders (Rs 10 crore) and HDIL (Rs 47 crore).It must be noted that these dues are as of March 23 and may be pending for several years. “If a defaulter does not pay up property tax, he is charged 2% penalty next year. But in case of regular defaulters, we usually disconnect water supply, or seal the property. In some cases, the property is auctioned,” said deputy municipal commissioner B G Pawar.
 
 “Usually, housing societies or bungalows have people living in them. That is why they cannot afford to have their water supply disconnected. But abandoned, disputed, tenanted properties are exceptions. Even then, builders are biggest defaulters across categories,” Pawar said. Several builders have moved court challenging the amount of property tax they have been asked to pay. Hariprakash Pandey, senior VP, Finance and Investor Relations of HDIL, said, “In some cases we have contested the property tax amount (in court). We also have some refund due from BMC. I will have to check and revert.” Representatives of other builders did not respond to Mirror’s queries.
 
 
