JAIPUR: The practice of ideal breastfeeding directly influences the age of diagnosis of   among children, revealed a   conducted by the doctors of  .

 Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder triggered by eating gluten (wheat). It damages the small intestines. 
 
 Early infant feeding practices can delay the onset of symptomatic celiac disease, an auto-immune disease, shows the study, which was conducted to find out whether breastfeeding and breastfeeding status during gluten (wheat diet) introduction influences the age at diagnosis of the disease. In addition to study, whether the timing of gluten introduction influences the age at diagnosis of celiac disease.
 
 Result of the study shows that the age at onset of celiac disease was below one year in 40.42% of the cases, who had started gluten before six months of age compared to only 12.58% of those who had started gluten later.
 
 The study also shows that those children who are breastfed properly as recommended by   (WHO), the age of children diagnosed with celiac disease is higher in comparison to the age of children who are not breastfed properly. 
 
 The study has been published in international journal of pediatric gastroenterology, hepatology and nutrition (PGHN). It was conducted by Dr Shailja Vajpayee, Dr Shiv Dayal Sharma, Dr Rajkumar Gupta, Dr Alok Goyal, and Dr Aakash Sharma of department of pediatric medicine, JK Lon hospital attached to  , Jaipur.
 
 One of the authors Dr RK Gupta, who teaches pediatric medicine in J K Lon hospital, said, “While conducting the study, we have found that if an infant gets exclusive breastfeeding for his first six months of life and post six months, he taken rice and pulses in the form of semi-solid food and also start intake of gluten (wheat) diet which delays symptomatic celiac disease.”
 
 But he added the study has not established that exclusive breastfeeding for six months and timing of gluten introduction provide permanent protection against the disease or merely delays the symptoms. 
 
 The study was conducted on 198 children who have already been diagnosed with the disease. The doctors collected the details of such children whether they were breastfed exclusively for first six month of their life. They also collected information on the time when they started taking gluten (wheat). They were continued breastfeeding at the time of introduction of wheat. 
 
 Out of 198 cases, 185 had been breastfed as infants and 121 children were exclusively breastfed for first six months. Out of 198 cases, 60 were diagnosed in first two years of life. Among those 14 cases who were not breastfed, nine had onset of symptoms in first 24 months of age as compared to 26.36% in breastfed group. In breastfed children, age of gluten introduction was also significantly higher as compared to other group, revealed the study. 
 
 
