THRISSUR: A  , near Ayyanthole - who had adopted a baby girl from a clinic in Mysuru - were shattered after they realized that a   had cheated them. Paramel Veettil Suresh Babu and his wife Asha had to leave the child at a juvenile home in Mysuru three months ago, after the police informed that the racket had given the baby to them. 

 The doctor who ran the clinic and other persons associated with the racket were arrested by the police. The couple, who were childless for 27 years, had adopted the child six years ago. They had named her   and looked after her in an affectionate manner. The girl was also the pet of Asha's aged mother and sister who were staying with family.
 
 Suresh, who runs a welding workshop, said he came in contact with the clinic through his circle of friends. The clinic had offered the baby saying that it was opening up avenues for adoption of babies who were delivered by women who did not want the child. "Only delivery charges and other hospital fee were taken from me then," he said.
 
 "Police officers, who came here, had then told me to join them and sign some documents. But, when we reached Mysuru, they took the child to a juvenile home. Now, we are not even permitted to see her. We have to seek   for that. However, the police did not register any crime against us probably because they realized that we were looking after her very well," Suresh said.
 
 "My daughter is with a group of 50 kids who mostly speak Kannada and she cannot follow that language. She was studying in school here and her studies are discontinued now. My wife's mother and her aged sister are now completely unwell and have to be taken to hospital regularly for treatment after the child was taken away. The doctors are unable to diagnose what ails them," he said.
 
 When asked whether he intended to pursue any follow-up actions, he said: "I'm 58 now and my wife is 57. I ran from pillar to post for 30 days in Mysuru to get my daughter back. I lost most of my clients as I had shut shop for as many days. I'm not worried about the loss. I only want my child. I'm told that no one has come forward to take her back till date," Suresh said.
 
