AGRA:  , president of the   on Saturday slammed Prime Minister   and UP chief minister   as two sides of the same coin and “peddlers of false promises and claims”.
 
  “While Modi fooled the people with promises of ‘achche din’, Akhilesh is trying to get a second term by making false claims of development in the state. In UP, development only happens in Saifai and Etawah. All major political parties have used Muslims as vote banks but have neglected them in the end,” Owaisi told the gathering.
  
  Though the AIMIM is contesting over 50 of the 403 seats in the state, Owaisi appealed to the Muslims not to be waylaid by the promises of other political parties and vote for AIMIM. “They have broken our trust. You supported the Congress before the   demolition, then you supported the   and then the BSP and SP. But now you have the AIMIM as an alternative,” he said.
  
  The gathering of approximately 2,000, modest by the standards of most political parties, assembled at the venue in Kothi Meena Bazaar in the Old City area made up for its lack of numbers by enthusiastically cheering the AIMIM president during his speech.
  
  Owaisi alleged that a deliberate attempt was being made to prevent the AIMIM from carrying out political activities in the state. “We were denied permission to hold the rally eight times by the local administration. They are scared of me and don’t want me to speak the truth. We were only given permission to hold this rally at 7:30 pm on Friday,” Owaisi said.
  
  Denying the opposition’s charge that with AIMIM in the fray, the secular vote would get divided, Owaisi said strengthening the AIMIM would pave the way for the party to emerge as a big force in the state. “Secularism doesn’t mean that we remain subservient to other political parties,” he said, urging the people to give his candidates a chance.
  
  Asking Muslims to unite against the BJP, the RSS as well as those parties who have “betrayed” them in the past, Owaisi said, “This is a fight to save our culture. Our party is not against any religion and truly supports secularism.”
  
  Taking a dig at Akhilesh, Owaisi said, “He talks about development, which has only taken place in the SP leaders’ backyards of Saifai and Etawah. They have a safari park there and when six lions die, they get doctors from London. But when your children die of malaria and other diseases, they do nothing. This is Akhilesh’s idea of development.”
  
  Criticising Modi’s demonetisation policy, Owaisi alleged that it had led to closure of several industries in UP. The move, he said, had rendered lakhs of people jobless.
