MEERUT/NEW DELHI: BJP chief   called off his “padayatra” (march) in Meerut on Friday following the murder of a businessman’s son and lashed out at the   government, saying Uttar Pradesh has become India's “crime capital” under it and vowed to make it a poll issue. 

  “It is a matter of grave concern, and sadness, that a young man’s life was cut short due to the bad law and order situation in the state. I am wondering what his mother must be going through. We condole the death and call off the padyatra right now,” Shah said. The yatra was proposed to pass through some communally-sensitive parts of the city.
 
  “But, before that, I seek an answer from the two shehzadas (referring to Rahul Gandhi and  ) on this murder, when they sit for a joint press conference today,” Shah said during a poll rally in the city. 
 
  “Just look into the backgrounds of these two shehzadas. Ek ki party ne desh ko loota to doosre ki party ne pradesh ko loota (the party of one person looted the country while the other’s party looted the state). They are not here for development of the state but to fool the masses,” the saffron clad leader said.
 
  Citing figures, he said cases of 24 rapes, 13 murders, 33 kidnappings, 19 riots and 136 thefts occur daily in the state, leading to 7,650 incidents of crime per day. The BJP chief said that the UP has witnessed 161% jump in crime in the last five years. “Where the state could have been number one in agriculture, they made it number one in robberies," he added.
 
  Shah also said that the government probe into the communal clashes are “lopsided”, keeping the vote bank into mind. “More than 200 communal clashes have taken place here. When a lopsided inquiry is instituted on those clashes they are done with an intention to keep its vote bank intact. Do you want to vote for these kind of people again?” Shah asked.
 
  Earlier in the day, BJP MPs raised the issue in Lok Sabha shouting slogans like 'Akhilesh ka haath goonda-gardi ke sath' (Akhilesh is with goons). They later sat on dharna outside Parliament. “There has been no law and order in the state in last five years. Time has come to uproot this government. Only BJP can bring a positive change,” Baghpat MP Satyapal Singh said. Basti MP Sharad Tripathi alleged that there is anarchy in the state.
 
  Speaking to media, party spokesperson Sambit Patra alleged that there was no rule of law in the state and crime graph had steadily risen according to the state government's data. “While the entire state is witnessing lawlessness, both princes, Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav, are busy in political rallies. Why are both princes are silent," he asked.
 
  Abhishek Verma (21) was killed on Thursday night when he was with his father Sushil Verma, who owns a gutka business, and three workers working in his godown near his house at Sharda road in Brahmpuri area. Five armed men barged into the godown and looted the godown at gunpoint. When Verma and his son resisted their attempt to flee, the gang members opened fire following which Abhishek and three others were injured and later admitted to hospital. He later succumbed to his injuries.
