HYDERABAD: Thanks to urbanisation and re-engagement of the middle class with politics in the country, the average Indian voter is increasingly shunning caste lines and voting on the agenda of development and growth, industry captain and Bajaj Auto Ltd chairman Rahul Bajaj said here on Friday. 

 "For some time now, voters have been rooting for Bijli, Sadak and Paani rather than doles. In 2014, the nation voted for growth and development rather than narrow caste or communal considerations. And this has happened now in state after state, be it Maharashtra, Haryana or Jharkhand. If any reassertion of this trend was needed, it was given emphatically in last month's elections, especially in UP," the   patriarch said.
 
 Bajaj was addressing the students of the   ( ) at the graduation day ceremony, in which 898 students of PGP (Post-Graduate Programme) class of 2017, 61 students of PGPMAX (Post-graduate programme in management for senior executives) class of 2016 and 55 students of PGP MFAB (Management for Family Business) class of 2016 passed out. This is the largest ever group of students graduating from the premier Hyderabad-based B-school.
 
 Hailing this shift in voting pattern in India, Bajaj, however, mentioned that a lot needs to be done to ensure the growth and development of the country, as in the past, governments had repeatedly chosen wealth distribution over wealth creation. According to him, politicians should realise the damage done by "socialist clap trap" and push for reforms to dismantle the old system. 
 
 "The government has to focus on the efficient provision of health, education,   and a light but effective regulation of the private sector. We have been, till now, over regulated and under governed...Meanwhile, businessmen need to be ethical. No large business can be successfully run without an ethical underpinning," he added. This apart, he said it is necessary to minimise the role of black money and criminals in elections. 
 
 "Public   of elections and simultaneous elections at the Centre and state are necessary steps," Bajaj pointed out.
 
 He also urged the students, who are aspiring to be industry leaders in the future, to understand the importance of team work. And finally, giving lessons on leadership, Bajaj said, "You should however, recognise that leadership is not just charisma, not public relations, not showmanship. Leadership is performance, consistent behaviour and trust-worthiness. Leadership means there is no substitute for excellence, no tolerance of mediocrity and no compromise with integrity.
 
 In his address, ISB dean Rajendra Srivastava also asked the students to focus on excellence and work towards an equitable society. He pointed out that, on an average, every ISB graduate has created around 30 jobs.
 
 The government has to focus on the efficient provision of health, education, infrastructure and a light but effective regulation of the private sector. We have been, till now, over regulated and under governed...Meanwhile, businessmen need to be ethical
 
 The government has to focus on the efficient provision of health, education, infrastructure and a light but effective regulation of the private sector. We have been, till now, over regulated and under governed...Meanwhile, businessmen need to be ethical
 
 
