While crusaders for   and kambala have been demanding the revival of traditional sports, which they believe is key to keeping native breeds of cattle alive, a new book by Bengaluru-based historian and wildlife conservationist Theodore  , hopes to bring   ­ some of which are facing extinction into the spotlight.

 It was in 1968, when he was in the postal service, that Baskaran saw his first Rajapalayam. At a wayside station near Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu, he found himself admiring two exquisite white dogs -scars on their coats, a result of fights with boars -curled up on the floor of the platform.But the moment their master clicked his tongue, the dogs stood up, on guard, waiting for their next command.
 
 A few months later, the man brought Baskaran a Rajapalayam pup, which set the former postmaster-general, and now historian, writer and dog lover, on his life long quest to discover and recover the stories behind Indian dog breeds. Half a century later, Baskaran, now 76, has written a book on the subject, cov ering 25 different breeds.
 
 “Thanks to India's diverse wildlife, the British would hunt every free moment they had. They first tried with Indian dogs, which weren't very good at it. So they began bringing in their greyhounds and retrievers, which ended up dying as they could not withstand the heat,“ says Baskaran.The British then tried interbreeding them with indigenous breeds, and in the process destroyed the native breeds.
 
 “The gene pool of the Indian dog breeds was intact until the colonial period, when interbreeding began. The first to import dogs were the Portuguese in the 16th century . But it was only after the British tightened their hold on India that there was a steady inflow of dogs,“ says Baskaran. His book mentions that a record from 1850 shows that `thousands of dogs were sent to India at enormous expense, to Madras particularly'.
 
 While Baskaran lists the strongest of the Indian breeds as the Rampur hound, Himalayan mastiff and Rajapalayam, he says he found that many legendary Indian breeds had vanished or were on the point of disappearing. “In the 18th century, a Frenchman travelled around the country and identified as many as 50 distinct Indian dog breeds.Sadly, we don't have that many now,“ says Baskaran. “In the Northeast, they have managed to maintain a pristine gene pool of their indigenous breeds,“ he says.
 
 Baskaran also looks at reasons why the trail's gone cold. “Indifference by both people and the government,“ says Baskaran, “is the biggest reason.“ Only a few governments, like Karnataka, are making some attempts at revival, he says. Indigenous dog breed shows in the state have increased the popularity of the Mudhol hound breed.
 
 “The   took the initiative to bring indigenous breeds into the show ring and work towards their preservation. They began with Mudhol hounds, the well-known local breed of Karnataka. Since 1995, Mudhols have been seen in show rings in the state and this has increased the popularity of the breed outside its native Bijapur district,“ he says.
 
 The Karnataka Veterinary , Animal Husbandry and   showed interest in the Mudhol breed, which began to be considered part of Karnataka's heritage. “The state government allotted Rs 5 crore and 40 acres for the purpose of breeding the dog. The centre began functioning in 2011. In 2015, there were 28 hounds, and it began sending dogs to shows in various towns in south India. In addition to the work in the centre, the staff go out to the field, providing free vaccination and health check-ups. A separate state-ofthe-art whelping centre has been built on campus,“ he adds.
 
 In cities, it is the craze to have foreign breeds as pets that has resulted in the neglect of local breeds. And in rural areas, the ban on hunting by the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 is among the reasons.
 
 In 2016, the   in Bagalkot presented six Mudhol pups to the  , which is considering inducting them into its canine wing, says Baskaran. These are the initiatives India needs to keep its indigenous hounds in the running, he says.
 
