PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: With a day left for the deadline to file nominations for the municipal elections, the state election commission has tweaked the rules to prevent any last-minute complications.

 Under the new rule, office-bearers of the political parties will be allowed submit the AB forms directly to the municipal commissioner, along with the list of their official candidates. The change was made to prevent any 11th-hour desertions from the parties by miffed aspirants. 
 
 Under the earlier system, officerbearers of parties would give AB forms to the candidates who would later submit them, along with the nomination forms, to the election officials. However, some office-bearers have been found to misuse the nomination forms, like changing the names of candidates. 
 
 The new rule looks to mitigate, if not entirely eliminate, such problems.
 
 The SEC order says the parties now have to submit the AB forms for official candidates to the municipal commissioner or the returning officers. If the forms are submitted to the municipal commissioner within the stipulated period, then the attested copies of those forms will be forwarded immediately to all the returning officers. 
 
 “It is a good decision, but there is a loophole,” Sanjog Waghire, NCP’s   unit chief, told TOI. “We demand that the AB forms, if submitted to the municipal commissioner within the stipulated period, be considered valid even if the attested copies are late in reaching the returning officers concerned,” he added.
 
 “This will prevent instances of mischief-mongers attempting to prevent candidates from reaching the RO’s office to submit the AB form,” said  , president of the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the Congress said.
 
 However, city unit head of the Shiv Sena, Rahul Kalate, was cynical of the move, whose impact he felt would be known on Friday. “This measure was probably taken to benefit the ruling party,” he surmised.
 
 Babu Nair, BJP spokesperson, said, “This decision will benefit the national political parties, as the local leadership will not be able to make last-minute changes. This will also help stall rebellions.” 
 
 
