NCR-based biker   has received an early   gift in the form of the government's  , which she will receive from the President himself on Women's Day next week. Pallavi – who divides her time between her two houses in Noida Sector 93 and Delhi's   – will be one of the eight women from across the country to be honoured by the Ministry of Women & Child Development on International Women's Day. She was selected for the honour for her achievement of becoming the first woman to cross eight mountain passes at heights of over 5,000m in a single journey, and being the first solo female biker to reach the highest motorable point in the world. Pallavi had achieved the two distinctions last summer. Speaking to us after learning about being selected for the honour, Pallavi says, "Although I had nominated myself for the honour, I wasn't expecting anything. I just sent in my name for the sake of doing it. So it was a very pleasant surprise when I got to know that I had been chosen for the honour. In fact, I got to know it on the day of Mahashivratri, so this is like a surprise gift from Lord Shiva to me. It just goes to show that your efforts never go wasted."

 
  
  Pallavi – who divides her time between her two houses in Noida Sector 93 and Delhi's Shankar Vihar – will be one of the eight women from across the country to be honoured by the Ministry of Women & Child Development on March 8 (BCCL)
 
 
  Pallavi will receive the award from President   at Rashtrapati Bhavan next week. Talking about the prospect of receiving the award from the President, she says, "I'm very happy but not exactly nervous. It’s difficult to express in words what this honour means to me. We ordinary people don’t expect such things. We don’t expect to be invited to the Rashtrapati Bhavan to receive an award from the President of India himself. It is surreal."
 
  The 37-year-old mother of two says that the win is not hers alone – it will motivate other girls to take up adventure sports. "What I’m really happy about is that it will motivate other girls to dream big. I believe it’s not just about me, but all women who want to take up unconventional paths like adventure sports in their life. They will feel motivated after this, and that’s my biggest victory," she says.
 
  But Pallavi is in no mood to rest on her laurels – she is already planning her next adventure. She tells us, "I feel a connection with the Himalayas. I follow the Buddha and Lord Shiva, and both are associated with the Himalayas, which is why I feel drawn to them. So I’m looking to explore hidden, undiscovered heights in the Himalayas and will plan a trip there soon."
 
 
