When a non-venomous rat snake snuck into a motor factory in Boisar, Vaishali Chawhan thought it would be an easy rescue. After all, the 40-year-old mother of two has rescued Indian rock pythons, spectacled cobras and Russell's vipers during her five-year stint as a snake catcher. But she hadn't bargained on having to move the factory's heavy motors herself while struggling to catch an aggressive reptile. “I asked the men working there for help,“ she recalls, “but they all said, 'Hum paas nahi aenge.'“ Eventually, Chawhan tied a long rope to the motor blocking her path and handed the free end to the terrified labourers.Using the rope, they were able to drag the motor out of her way while keeping a safe distance from the serpent.

 For Chawhan the experience was especially ironic considering the first time she encountered a trinket at her daughter's school, a male rescuer dismissed her entire sex as spineless. “He first asked me to hold the bottle containing the snake and then immediately said, 'Never mind, you're a woman. You will screech even if you see a cockroach.“ Chawhan ended up making the con descending rescuer her mentor and joining SARRP (Spreading Awareness on Reptiles and  ). Over the years, she's clambered into a dark, underground tank to fish out a hissing Russell's viper and scanned CCTV footage to locate a rescued snake that got free in her house.
 
 As man-animal conflict increases in Mumbai's concrete jungle, the need for urban snake catchers has soared. A few gutsy women have risen to the challenge, grabbing their snake hooks and racing to the rescue in response to frantic calls from residents. Like all snake rescuers, they work pro bono motivated by their love for the reptile and the thrill of smashing stereotypes.
 
  from   responds to between five and seven calls daily in Thane alone. Last monsoon, she rescued five cobras in a single day housing them in plastic bottles with colourful lids--the kind used to store sweets in a paan shop--before re leasing them in  . “A cobra raises its head so you can slip an upturned container over it and then coax the rest of the body to slide in using a stick,“ explains Nathwani. “While the head is still touching the bottom of the bottle, you turn the bottle right-side up and quickly screw on the cap.“ A Russell's viper is fed into the bottle from above, while non-venomous snakes are coaxed into carry bags using a piece of plastic pipe, which resembles a hole in the ground.
 
 Each snake must be handled differently, which is why recognizing their markings is essential. When Gargi Vijayaraghavan begged her father — also a snake rescuer--to let her handle serpents as a teenager, he first insisted she study the reptile, which she did. Today, the 23-year-old responds to calls around her home in Trombay's BARC Colony . Her most dramatic rescue involved saving a cobra, who bit her father when he tried to disentangle it from a nylon net. After ensuring her father was recovering in the ICU, Vijayaraghavan headed back to finish extricating the five foot-long serpent. “People were horrified to see me help the same snake,“ she recalls, “but I couldn't just leave it to struggle in pain.“
 
 People's reactions to these women range from excitement to derision. Chawhan once caused a traffic jam because so many people came to watch her work, while Vijayaraghavan has faced hisses and catcalls of `saapwali'.
 
 But the next generation is following suit. Recently, Chauhan's 13-year-old daughter left a group of boys dumbstruck.
 
 “They were trying to kill a trinket,“ says Chawhan. “So she grabbed the snake, slipped it into her schoolbag and brought home.“
 
