SURAT: The ban on cars on   from Delhi Gate to   has irked the   residents, especially those living in the walled city areas. 

 The city police, who failed miserably in curbing the menace of auto-rickshaws, street vendors and haphazard parking on Rajmarg, are flooded with messages on their official Facebook page criticizing the move. 
 
 Residents have raised serious questions on the rationale behind imposing the ban on four-wheelers disregarding the menace of auto-rickshaws and haphazard parking from Delhi Gate to Chowk Bazaar. 
 
 As per an estimate, around 15,000 auto-rickshaws ply between Chowk Bazaar to Delhi Gate, ferrying passengers going toward Varachha, railway station, Rander, Athwalines, Vesu and other parts of the city. At most of the spots, including Bhagatalav, Lal Gate, Delhi Gate, Bhagal and Chowk Bazaar, auto-rickshaw drivers park their vehicles haphazardly on the road, adding to the traffic chaos during peak hours. 
 
 As per the notification by police commissioner, movement of four-wheelers on Rajmarg from Delhi Gate to Chowk Bazaar has been banned between 10 am and 12 pm, and 5pm and 7pm. Commuters going toward Chowk Bazaar and Rander from Delhi Gate are diverted from   to Athwalines and Nanpura, while those travelling to railway station, Varachha and NH-8 can take the road to Athwalines to Ring Road via Railway Station and Varachha. 
 
 Surat MP Darshana Jardosh was quick to oppose the ban imposed on cars. She met city police commissioner Satish Sharma on Friday and submitted a memorandum demanding a rollback of the decision. 
 
 “The main reason behind traffic chaos on Rajmarg is not four-wheelers, but auto-rickshaws, street vendors and illegal encroachments by shopkeepers. Banning four-wheelers is not going to solve the problem,” Jardosh said.
 
 Chinmay Raj Gandhi posted, “I am living in the walled city and the decision to ban four-wheelers will create problems for the residents of Mahidhapura, Gopipura, Haripura, Rampura and Saiyedpura. I strongly oppose the move of the city police.”
 
 An RTI activist, Rajesh Modi also dashed off a letter to police commissioner stating that the major issue for traffic congestion on Rajmarg is irresponsible driving and parking by auto-rickshaws. 
 
 
