NEW DELHI:   is pushing to field candidates in all 70 seats of Uttarakhand, riling “allies” which want the ruling outfit to back their candidatures from other parties.

 And adding to the tug of war is chief minister Harish   who is reported to be “accommodative” to “allies” — four independents and three BSP MLAs — whose support helped Congress form and run the state government.
 
 Asked what would be the Congress attitude towards “allies”, Rawat told TOI, “We will move with understanding.
 
 Congress has always respected its allies.” Rawat’s cryptic words encapsulate the clash within as he is at odds with   general secretary   and state unit chief   who want the supporting MLAs to contest on Congress ticket.
 
 While Pritam Singh Pawar is keen to fight under his original banner of Uttarakhand Kranti Dal, styling himself as representative of local sentiment, Sarbat Karim Ansari has already been nominated by BSP. They want Congress to support them in their seats.
 
 Dinesh Dhanai wants to fight as an “independent” in Tehri, with Congress not fielding a candidate against him. Mantri Prasad Naithani wants to contest again as an independent from  .
 
 “They have been asked to meet the screening committee chairperson Kumari Selja and put forth their demand. Then we will decide,” a senior leader said. Besides, Congress has to determine if Durgapal and Hari Das have the “winnability” quotient. Both the MLAs recently joined Congress.
 
 The leadership views the CM’s “accommodative” approach to “allies” — four of whom are ministers — as linked to “personal loyalty” as against the demand that they embrace the party. The result of the tussle may boil down to how much pressure is exerted by CM Rawat and if the leadership is able to put its foot down.
 
 Congress faces another riddle in whether it should allow its state chief Kishore Upadhyay to contest elections. A section feels that Upadhyay should focus on the poll campaign instead of being engaged in his personal contest.
 
