When you catch up with   for a conversation, you feel like you are chatting with a long-lost friend and not an actress who has worked with some of the biggest names in the film industry. Her energy is infectious and her charm, unmistakable. After making her debut in Bollywood with the Amitabh Bachchan-Dhanush-starrer Shamitabh a little over two years ago, namma Chennai ponnu is all set to impress Kollywood with Ajith’s  . Here’s she, in a heart-to-heart with us. Her answers — some candid, some diplomatic, but nothing too boring or clichéd. Excerpts:

 
 I was a bit silly to have taken time to come here. But I am glad that I am finally debuting with a film like Vivegam. In fact, this was one of the first few offers that I got from the industry and I was thoroughly impressed with my role. I play a pivotal character, someone who takes the plot forward. Of course, Kajal (Aggarwal) ma’am is playing the female lead, but my role is crucial to the storyline. It has many layers that challenged me as an actor. I am one of those who would genuinely want to try something different. Director   sir was really encouraging and let me see things in a different perspective.
 
 
 The weather conditions were extreme in Bulgaria and Serbia. We are so used to this humid weather that it was tough to work in minus 10 degrees. It was challenging and drained us out by the end of a 12-hour shoot every day. But the whole team was supportive, considerate and caring. In fact, this has been the most positive set I have been on.
 
 
 Not at all! Ajith sir made me feel so comfortable on the set that I didn’t have any kind of inhibition while performing. Even if I was taking some time to get my shot right or express a certain emotion well, he would wait patiently. People do get intimidated when they see such successful actors. But he has no airs whatsoever and the credit for making everyone feel at ease solely goes to him. I guess it’s relatively easy to handle failures. But Ajith sir is a fine example to learn how to handle success. He is unassuming, warm and helpful. Since I’m also into photography, we got along pretty well. In fact, that was my ice-breaker!
 
 
 Romba nalla irundhuchu (giggles). Living in Mumbai, I hardly had an opportunity to speak in Tamil. The only one I could converse with in the language was my dad. Initially, it was pretty tough because it had been a while since I spoke so much of Tamil continuously. But I got used to it over a period of time. I have dubbed for myself, too. Neenga paathu sollunga (laughs).
 
 
 I solely rely on my talent. Yes, I am   and Sarika’s daughter. But I cannot depend on the name to move forward in my career. I don’t think people look for all these things today as eventually, it is talent that lasts.
 
 
 (Laughs) Firstly, the script needs to make sense. If I feel that I cannot relate to my character, then it doesn’t work for me. Yes, my choices have been offbeat, but I am open to doing an out-and-out commercial subject, too. In fact, Laali Ki Shaadi Mein Laaddoo Deewana was along those lines. But I have to admit that I connect more with experimental roles. If I have let go off projects, it’s either because I didn’t connect with it or it didn’t work for both parties. I am young and I want to do roles that keep me on my toes constantly. Both Shamitabh and Vivegam did just that.
 
 
 I never thought I would be an actor one day. It took me a while to realise that I was keeping doors shut without even wanting to see what’s on the other side. Yes, I was more into dancing and football. But unfortunately, I injured my leg, which restricted my movement for more than a year. It sort of shattered all my dreams. But I picked myself up and tried different things, starting with working behind the camera. I began noticing all the small things that actors do when I worked as an assistant director. I tried to read their expression or remember a dialogue. It was after all this that I realised what a buffoon I was — trying to stop myself from becoming an actor. In fact, I discovered acting through dance.
 
 
 My parents have given me the freedom to be myself. I am an independent individual because of their encouragement. I can always call my mother, father or sister whenever I need and they are always there to help me. But I tend to not discuss too much with them. However, if I have signed a film, I explain why I liked the role to them. This way, I also get their point of view.
 
 
 It was fun and challenging to be part of the project. When you are working with family, you tend to become lazy. But in this one, I had to push myself to do better because of them (laughs).
 
 
 Oh, we spend quality time together. Who wouldn’t enjoy the company of my father? Even if we are doing different things but are in the same room, the kind of conversations we have are fun.
 
 
 Yes, I do. That’s something I would never let go of. I am also into photography and football. I write on and off, too. 
 
 
 My father is my first hero; so obviously, I would love to act alongside him. I really like Mysskin sir and Mani Ratnam sir’s works. 
 
 
 Oh yes, I love watching the weekend episodes. My father is an incredible host. He’s very poised and has panache. It’s wonderful to see hosts like him after a long time. You know the kind of feeling you get when you watch Kaun Banega Crorepati with Amitabhji? That’s the feeling I get when I see this show. The way in which he addresses issues makes me feel proud that I am his daughter.
 
 
