NEW DELHI: Having reiterated its demand that its share in central taxes, stagnant now for 15 years, should be hiked and more grants given to bolster the finances of the municipal corporations, Delhi government is hoping the union   will reflect some of the recommendations made by deputy chief minister   at union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s pre-budget consultations with finance ministers of states on January 4. 

 Among other things,   had sought withdrawal of service tax levied at the rate of 15% on 40% of the total revenue collected from the state’s air-conditioned bus service. Sisodia had justified the demand by pointing out that Delhi government was making strenuous effort to promote public transport to check air pollution. Offsetting the liability of the service tax required fares of AC buses to be increased by around 6%, effectively discouraging the masses from using public transport, the Delhi minister argued. 
 
 Sisodia had similarly desired exemption from the central excise duty of about 12.6% on fully built natural gas buses to reduce the cost of public transport. Sisodia also demanded compensation for revenue losses arising from demonetisation, saying value added tax collection had shown negative growth in December 2016 compared with December 2015, hitting the tax revenue target and, thus, affecting development work.
 
 Sisodia also apprised Jaitley that the local bodies were not getting basic and performance grants as recommended by the 14th Central Finance Commission. The deputy chief minister decried that government of India treated Delhi as a union territory when it concerned the share in central taxes but as a state when it concerned the issue of 100% central funding allowed to union territories for centrally sponsored schemes. 
 
 Sisodia said that the sub-group of chief ministers constituted by government of India on rationalising centrally sponsored schemes had recommended 100% central funding for union territories since the devolution of finance commission grant was not applicable to them. However, said a government statement on Tuesday, Niti Aayog had, in August last year, stated that all such schemes would be funded 100% by the centre in union territories without legislature, while following the “existing funding pattern” in union territories with legislatures.
 
 The Delhi government is awaiting the presentation of the union budget on Wednesday in its new format after doing away with Plan and non-Plan heads. On January 13, Sisodia had announced that Delhi’s budget too would follow suit and adopt the Capital and Revenue heads. 
 
 
