LUCKNOW: While the internal squabble in the   has resulted into a vertical division of the outfit, the Raj Bhawan is maintaining a wait-and-watch approach. No opposition party has in fact approached the   so far, seeking intervention of the Raj Bhawan in view of earlier sacking of chief minister   and then the division in the party.

 A highly placed source revealed to TOI that the governor can act only on a complaint but since no member of the Opposition has approached him, he is just keeping quiet over the fast developing situation. The Raj Bhawan can also take suo motu action, but that too only when there is a Constitutional crisis in the state. But, Governor   has been maintaining that such a situation has not arrived yet.
 
 With the elections to be announced in a few days from now, the Centre also does not want to give a halo of martyrdom to the Akhilesh Yadav government and give him a political leverage by dislodging the UP government. ."When the Akhilesh Yadav government is imploding on its weight , where is the need of dismissing it and imposing President Rule " said a senior union minister of BJP.
 
 The BJP is learnt to be deliberately avoiding to dislodge the Akhilesh Yadav government because it has already burnt its fingers in the adjoining Uttarakhand state where its bid to dislodge the Congress government headed by Harish Rawat boomranged and same had happened in  . So, the BJP is not in a hurry to claim the   government and get impose President Rule in the state.
 
 Officially, the governor has maintained that since it was a matter of intra-party dispute in the ruling Samajwadi Party he would not like to intervene in it . “But the governor has to see when a chief minister has been expelled from the ruling party and not all the MLAs are with him, there is a fertile ground for him to intervene,” explained a constitutional expert seeking anonymity.
 
 The BSP has brushed off the split in the Samajwadi Party as its internal matter, the BJP has described the political crisis in the state as a “struggle in the Yadav family for the booty”. The Congress which had been attempting to have an alliance with the Samajwadi Party has also distanced it from the whole affair by terming it a “power struggle in the ruling family”.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ram Naik maintained he was keeping himself updated from the political developments in the state, but still the situation did not call for his intervention as the fight is limited to the ruling party and he did not see any constitutional break down of the state machinery. 
 
 
