NEW DELHI: The spirit of the gentleman's game, like all other noble ideas in the current world order, is under threat. Even if the contest is proving to be at its best, the current Test series between India and Australia is spilling over with bad blood.   and Steve Smith's centuries are getting less space and TV time as one captain has just stopped short of calling another a 'cheat' and a 'repeat offender.' 

 What could have been a landmark contest between the bat and ball is going down in cricketing annals as the 'Cheatgate' series. Before that existed 'Monkeygate'. The list will go on. Dharamshala, where the fourth Test is scheduled from March 25 with series poised 1-1, could well be the unsavoury high noon.
 
 Meeting of great men and minds produce fireworks but on the cricket field, an ugly face has taken over. The trend is not new. Since the Melbourne Test match in 1981, when captain Sunil Gavaskar, aggrieved by a lbw decision going against him, walked away with opening partner  , India-Australia cricket rides have been bumpy.
 
 Karsan Ghavri, a member of that 1981 Test-winning side, recalls the incident as if it were yesterday. “Sunny was determined to reach his century and he was batting at 70 odd. The Australians had dried up his runs and the series wasn't going his way. It was an incident that shouldn't have happened on a cricket field.”
 
 Unfortunately though, the trend has caught up since. “What is happening in the current series is unfortunate,” says the former left-arm pacer, “But, I feel it is part of an orchestrated gameplan. It is to upset the opposition or a particular batsman or bowler. (But) once you cross the line there is no looking back.”
 
 It is an Australian 'gift' to world cricket, feels Ghavri. “Apart from good, hard cricket, the Australians started this fashion of chattering, throwing nasty comments or below the belt jokes on the field. And sadly, the fashion caught the imagination of the rest,” Ghavri points out, “Now, every team is doing it.”
 
 The rapid emergence of a brazen 'new India' ethos could be stoking the escalation in hostilities. Santosh Desai, social commentator, says that there is a certain brand of leadership that has gained currency now. “The trend is never to walk away from a fight. And as it so happens, it simmers over. (Virat) Kohli is part of that trend,” says Desai.
 
 “The celebration of aggression is unnecessarily glorified. Sport loses something when you reduce it to a street fight. If the Indians dial it back, they won't lose much,” he points out. But, India, seeking its pound of flesh as a robust and flourishing economy, feels it is trying to right historical wrongs. The Australians, uneasy with another superpower edging in at cricket's round table, are unwilling to relinquish their traditional super power status.
 
 Even though technology is trying to make it a fair game, this battle is assuming ugly proportions. During the days of domestic umpires and long before when TV replays and reviews were part of the discourse, Ghavri says the close decisions always went to the home team. “Rarely would Greg (Chappell) be given out lbw or a close run out. Similar was the case with Pakistan. (Umpire) Shakoor Rana made a quite a name for himself,” says Ghavri.
 
 Yet ironically, as technology took over, so did the order of battle. But Ghavri feels a line has to be drawn somewhere. “The game is not going in the right direction. A wrong message is getting across to young cricketers and the audience. Gesturing, too much appealing, foul language is being considered part of the game. That's not the right way.”
 
 Years later, Gavaskar admitted to regretting the walkout. “It was a big mistake on my part,” he said, “As an Indian captain I was not supposed to act in that manner. In no way I can justify my act of defiance.” 
 
 It was a study in introspection of yore. Today with manufactured stakes propped up so high, whether such hindsight holds any weight or meaning, could well become this rivalry's greatest test.
 
