NEW DELHI: A group of   residents met   vice-chairman Udai Pratap Singh on Monday to register their protest against the move to rehabilitate families evicted from   in their locality. They said if DDA decides to go ahead with its plan, all residents will surrender their  , which were allotted to them under the 2014 housing scheme.

 On Sunday, TOI had reported that the land-owning agency was planning to re-allot 1,000-odd flats, returned by the allottees of the 2014 scheme, to the residents of Kathputli Colony. However, those already residing in the Rohini flats claim DDA has never mentioned that these houses were for economically weaker section (EWS) and could be allotted to slum dwellers. 
 
 “DDA never mentioned this in the advertisement for the 2014 scheme. They can’t arbitrarily decide to allot flats in our locality to slum dwellers. They concealed facts from us,” said Vaibhav Puggal, president of pocket 5, Sector 35 RWA, who led the delegation, which met the DDA vice-chairman. 
 
 The irate residents have also written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Union minister Venkaiah Naidu, expressing their concern. “We have told the VC that if DDA plans to go ahead with its plan, all residents will surrender their flats. We want DDA to return our money with interest. They have cheated us,” said Puggal.
 
 J P Aggarwal, DDA’s principal commissioner (land disposal and housing) confirmed that a group of RWA members had come for a meeting. “We told them that it is in the planning stage and so far, no decision has been taken in this regard. We will have to review our plan with the help from the competent authority as residents have said that they all will surrender their flats if we shift Kathputli Colony residents.”
 
 The proposal, which has received in-principle approval from the authority, was moved as the number of beneficiaries in Kathputli Colony redevelopment scheme has gone up from 2,641 to nearly 4,000. 
 
 Facing stiff resistance from the slum dwellers while carrying out the eviction drive last year, DDA had accepted their demand to change the cut-off date for submission of applications for the rehabilitation scheme. The deadline was revised from January 2011 to January 1, 2015, according to   (DUSIB) guidelines.
 
 Citing the agreement with the developer, DDA officials said houses for 2,641 families were to be constructed. The developer has agreed to construct a few more houses to accommodate 200-odd families. But DDA will have to make arrangement for the remaining 1,000-odd families. The land-owning agency is struggling to dispose of 13,000 flats, of which close to 10,000 are one-room apartments. These flats were returned by the allottees of the 2014 scheme citing their small size, lack of infrastructure, etc.
 
 
