NAGPUR: Now, the police department will not have to wait for a benevolent organization to organize yoga camps for them on special occasions to reduce stress-levels and ailments related to hypertension. Adopting a scheme of the Ministry of Ayush, Maharashtra police has roped in Lonavala-based yoga centre   to spare their trainers for cops at 74 units across the state. Not only police personnel but their family members too can avail the facility.

 A memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been signed between the police department and Kaivalyadhama this month to start the scheme, for which around 50 specialized trainers have already been shortlisted. Kaivalyadhama, also the nodal agency to implement the yoga scheme for Ministry of Ayush, would also conduct an impact study for the police department to ascertain the benefits of the ancient practice on the health of the participants. Through a periodical comparative study, Kaivalyadhama experts would prepare a report on the status of health of the participants to check whether the scheme is being implemented in the right manner, and also elevate the health standards of the cops.
 
 Pradnya Sarvade, Addl DG, administration, said a budgetary allocation of around Rs2.10 crores have been received from the Ministry of Ayush for the ongoing financial year to implement the plan. “Police units would be provided yoga teachers but it would be left to them to organize the sessions. Depending upon the need and level of enthusiasm, the sessions can be held once a day or even more. Even the size of the batches and venue would be finalized by the local administration of each units,” said the senior woman officer.
 
 She added that Nagpur city police would be one of the units in the first phase to kick start the scheme. “It’s a voluntary scheme and participants are free to join. The scheme is being planned to be introduced at district or city headquarters but the unit in-charges can take the sessions to other parts too to cover a bigger numbers of beneficiaries,” said Sarvade.
 
 Sarvade said the scheme wanted teachers meeting certain standards and criteria to train the personnel, which prompted the department to join hands with Kaivalyadhama, which has its own brand reputation. “Certain diseases related to stress like high blood pressure, diabetes and so on are common among cops. Yoga can go a long way to bring relief,” said the woman Addl DG.
 
 
