NOIDA: Bahujan Samaj Party, which lost its two seats of Jewar and   to BJP, is the worst sufferer in the assembly elections in the NCR region. In Dadri, BSP’s two-time sitting MLA Satveer Gurjar lost to BJP’s Tejpal Nagar by a margin of 80,140 votes. 

 In Jewar, BSP’s three-time MLA and party candidate Vedram Bhati lost to Thakur Dhirendra Singh by a margin of 22,169 votes.
 
 In 2012, Satveer Gurjar had won the assembly polls by defeating BJP’s Nawab Singh Nagar by a margin of 37,297 votes. In the 2007 assembly polls, Gurjar had secured 75,346 votes and defeated Nawab Singh Nagar who got 50,923 votes. The Dadri seat is considered important to   as party chief Mayawati’s native place, Badalpur, is located in this constituency. According to Satveer Gurjar, there polarisation of votes had led to the BJP victory. “They polarised the political environment and the votes went in one direction,” he said.
 
 Gurjar said the people did not vote for development. “I never felt the people were unhappy with me,” he said. When questioned on the shift of the BSP vote bank, he said there was no dent in the BSP’s vote bank. “We feel that the voters of other parties went to BJP which changed the political equations,” he said.
 
 Vedram Bhati said BSP had a strong presence in the Jewar assembly constituency. “I feel that except forf the BJP candidate, all other party candidates were weak. The other parties’ votes shifted to BJP. I put up a tough fight against the BJP candidate but lost in the end,” he said.
 
 “Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself campaigned in different constituencies and made so many promises to the voters. The people get influenced when a leader of such a big stature makes promises. But we know that the promises will never be kept,” a BSP worker said. Political analysts believe that the anti-incumbency factor in Dadri and Jewar constituencies was to BJP’s advantage.
 
 Vinod Sharma, a journalist and a political analyst, said that though Mayawati’s hometown is in Dadri, she hardly visits the town. “There were also some cases of corruption that happened in Noida and Greater Noida authorities during her tenure as CM. The people of her constituency were not happy,” he said. Sharma added that the Muslim votes were divided. 
 
 Dr H Chaturvedi, director, BIMTECH, said that earlier people used to vote on caste and religious lines. 
 
 “The youths have now shifted from caste to development politics. This is one of the reasons for the shift in votes in the rural constituencies,” he said.
 
 
