Gurgaon: Shifting entry and denotifying highways are not the only jugaads to Supreme Court’s 500m liquor ban, illegal mobile ‘thekas’ strategically parked near arterial roads and highways are proving to be an ingenious way to circumvent the court order.

 The trend came to light on Tuesday when one such truck carrying liquor was seized in the Pali area of Faridabad by the forest department.
 
  are prefabricated structures that act as liquor vends and have a carrying capacity of 10,000 bottles. Truck operators usually set up base at a spot and keep changing it as per convenience and demand. These thekas are generally placed in the forest areas close to highways and arterial roads. 
 
 While forest officials said the trend was not new, locals told TOI that the number of mobile liquor vends has risen in the past week in the wake of the SC ruling.
 
 “The demand of mobile thekas has gone up especially after the removal of liquor vends along the national and state highways. There are three colleges around Pali, making mobile thekas a profitable business in the area,” said Sarabjeet Kumar, a student and resident of the area.
 
 Jitender Bhadana from Save Aravalis (Faridabad-based environmental NGO), who raised the alarm on the liquor truck spotted in Pali, said, “Truck operators keep the trolley covered while moving from one place to another and mostly operate in the forest area, flouting all norms.”
 
 “Ever since the ban, people from far off places like Gurgaon and Delhi are visiting these trolleys to buy alcohol,” said another resident of Pali requesting anonymity.
 
 Sneh Lata from the Faridabad excise department too acknowledged the rise in the movement of mobile thekas in the area in the past week. “These vends are operating illegally; no permits were granted to them. I’ll approach the police commissioner to form a team for night vigilance in a bid to nab the offenders.”
 
 Liquor vend operators, however, claim that the mobile thekas are legal. 
 
 Raghav, a liquor vend operator in the nearby area, said, “ I don’t think it is illegal to operate liquor trucks with permission.” 
 
 As per an official estimate, there are nearly 20 mobile thekas operating in Faridabad. 
 
 “We have written to the excise department as well as the police several times to take action against them, but in vain,” said a forest official, requesting anonymity.
 
 
