PANAJI:   resources minister Vinod Palyekar’s statement that the state government was open to the idea of an out-of-court settlement on   river issue sent the government and his party (GFP) into a tizzy forcing the minister to later retract his statement.

 Speaking after former Congressman Trajano D’Mello was formally inducted into GFP, Palyekar casually told reporters that he was personally in favour of an out-of-court settlement over the long-drawn tussle between Maharashtra, Goa and   over the Mhadei water.
 
 Palyekar’s rationale behind going for an out of court settlement was to put a stop to the crores that the state exchequer was spending to fight Goa’s case before the Mhadei water disputes tribunal.
 
 “An out-of-court settlement is good for the state, for each state. If the discussions are sincere where we don’t lose anything and they don’t lose anything then it is OK. If there are some decisions, maybe we can agree to some of their demands. We also need something so we are open to sitting down and discussing the issue. At the end of the day, no state must lose its money,” Palyekar said.
 
 The water resource minister also said that he was open to holding discussions with Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah. Palyekar suggested that while Goa would not allow Karnataka to divert water from the Mhadei river basin, he was open to discuss the idea of a power plant on the river.
 
 It was only after GFP president Vijai Sardesai was informed of Palyekar’s statement that the party office bearers intervened and asked Palyekar to retract his statement. Palyekar later issued a note retracting his statement.
 
 “There will be no compromise or out of court settlement on Mhadei case with Karnataka. This is the official stand of the department. I will discuss the matter with the chief minister,” Palyekar said.
 
 A day earlier, Siddaramaiah wrote to chief minister Manohar Parrikar seeking a meeting between the three states — Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra to help find an “amicable” solution on the Mhadei water diversion dispute.
 
 In the letter to Parrikar, Siddaramaiah had asked to indicate a tentative date for holding a meeting between the three states. This is the third letter written by Karnataka to the Goa government.
 
 
