PATNA: The   headquarters has demanded Rs200 crore from the home department for infrastructure at eight places in the state for training of newly recruited constabulary.

 These eight constable training centres are to be developed at BMP-2 (Dehri-on-Sone), BMP-3 (Gaya), BMP-4 (Dumraon), BMP-7 (Katihar), BMP-9 (Jamalpur), BMP-11 (Simultalla), BMP-12 (Birpur) and BMP-13 (Darbhanga).
 
 Sources said apart from the infrastructure available on the eight BMP premises, the plan is to construct buildings for classrooms, residential area and administrative work for training process, which would be used for recruitments in future.
 
 Each of these training centres would have the capacity to easily accommodate at least 1000 personnel to train them simultaneously. The state police is in dire need of training centres because it has to fill the vacancy of around 30,000 police personnel on the Supreme Court directive within a limited time period.
 
 The police headquarters has already sent letter to the constable recruitment board on June 30 this year for initiating the process of recruiting 9,900 constables by mid 2018 after which they would require training infrastructure.
 
 DG (training) K S Dwivedi said these centres would be developed under the regional training centres scheme. The training department proposal is to complete the eight centres by this financial year-end. 
 
 IG (headquarters) Paras Nath said the state police were awaiting the funds approval before initiating work.
 
 The situation of the state police could be understood from the fact that 11,793 constables inducted in January 2016 were undergoing training at 34 different police lines and BMP premises without standard training facilities. The new recruits were attending classes on mats spread on the floor. In addition, the 215 days training course was yet to complete even after one and half years of their induction.
 
 The DG (training) said no state has the capacity to train 11,000 constables simultaneously. “We want to enhance our training capacity by creating new centres which could be used later for up to inspector-level refresher course,” Dwivedi said. 
 
 After the creation of Jharkhand out of Bihar in 2000, the state was left with only three notified centres for training 3000 personnel. To accommodate them, police lines were being used as makeshift training centres. Out of these centres, one was of British era.
 
 These three notified training centres are Constable Training School (CTS) Nath Nagar, CTS Simultalla and Military Police Training Centre at Dumraon in Buxar. The training school at Nath Nagar was built in 1895. It was among the few training centres located at Murshidabad and Barrackpore in West Bengal and Lahore in Pakistan in the British India. A senior IPS officer, on the condition of anonymity, said lack of training infrastructure over the long period had badly hit the quality of police force in the state.
 
 
