CHENNAI: After years of dillydallying, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday affirmed its commitment to implement Chennai Port-Maduravoyal   jointly with the Centre soon. The Centre also expressed keenness to extend the project by an additional 10km, taking the reach from Maduravoyal to the city's periphery. The cost of the project has more than doubled and is now pegged at Rs 4,000 crore.

 The project suffered a setback after the previous Jayalalithaa government stalled it immediately after assuming charge in 2011, citing environmental concerns. At least14 of the19kmlong project goes along Cooum river. Emerging from a brief me eting with Union minister for road transport and highways  , chief minister   said, “There is a need to change the alignment (along certain sections), and officials from both sides will inspect and rework the alignment.“ Talks are on betwe en state and central agencies to revive the project at the earliest.
 
 While the UPA-initiated project remained in the cans for five years, Union minister   strongly batted for its execution to ease traffic to  . “We have decided to extend the project by another 10km from Maduravoyal. The alignment, cost and other features of the project will have to be reworked. The tentative cost will be around Rs 4,000 crore,“ the minister told TOI over phone. Even as the   gave the green signal to the Rs 1,815 crore project, the state government moved the SC where the case is now pending. NHAI has revoked the contract after the firm claimed compensation.
 
 The state government recently told NHAI, the executing agency, to carry out a study on the revised alignment at the earliest. It sought to modify the starting point of the alignment to avoid acquisition of   land and provide minimum impact in the estuary of Cooum near Napier Bridge by providing cable stayed bridge.Instead of the twin column piers, TN suggested use of single column ones which will reduce the impact of water flow. Radhakrishnan said the existing columns could be left as it is, as a huge amount had been spent on them and the rest could be considered for single piers.
 
