Spending summer vacations with Nani, my maternal grandmother, is one of the most endearing memories from childhood. Her home was a grand and classy setup still spirited in the era of the 40s when talking of the décor. She was neither wealthy nor aesthetic, yet her simplicity and abundant love overpowered us all. Every evening, she would lay down charpoy in the 
  for not less than ten of her toddler grandchildren who lugged next to each other like human stacks to take position nearest to her supple, baby-like body. As the night would deepen, beneath the moonlit sky studded with a thousand stars, Nani like a deft theatre performer would unravel her stock of stories, making dramatic expressions, doing voice modulations and even making up her own sweet melodies! Time would fly by just listening to her theatrical narration of stories and nobody would even flinch once in those rhapsodic hours. No, not even once! 

 Nani, was the first storyteller I knew. She managed to get me bitten by the story bug when I barely knew how to read or write.
 
 During my years growing up, I was hooked to reading books, mostly fiction. The distinct smell of its pages, the older the better, maddened me. With less pocket money and a voracious appetite for reading, I soon came to be known in my friend circle as the ‘big borrower’, always sniffing my long nose in hunt for storybooks. Unlike others who choose to graduate from   to English classics, I had no classy taste even worth bringing to a mention. I loved reading 
  and 
  as much as I loved reading the 
  comics,  , or Shakespeare. As long as it was about stories, I was hungry. 
 
 As days passed by, the childhood story bug inside me became bigger and stronger. Since I was still not akin to putting my thoughts to pen and paper in a formal narrative, I began cooking up stories to spice up my own life. Whether it was about sharing dramatic memoirs in daily corporate work setup or about putting my kids to sleep, I’d found an easy way with words. Somewhere during this time, I had also begun writing opinions, essays, and perspectives for some prestigious columns and e-magazines. And I Even started experimenting my theatre knowledge with storytelling, with on-stage performances!
 
 One fine morning, while browsing through regular news updates, I came across The Times of India’s newly launched prestigious campaign hunting for India’s 
 . ‘Write India’ was not just a starry fanfare already stirring the writing industry across the nation but also a nail-biting contest with rigorous screening procedures to make the cut to the top seed. The challenge sounded too tempting and too difficult at the same time for a wishful storyteller to undertake. 
 
 For 11 consecutive months, a bestselling author would leave a prompt for the story weavers to spin a yarn and impress them back. I was an appreciative reader until Ashwin Sanghi’s prompt happened. From the very moment I read it (and it was two days before the contest for him was about to close), the prompt just would not leave my head. Plot, protagonist, characters, all began hitting my brain wires as if pushing me to pen them down in 2500 words. That restless night, I decided to write my first formal story not because I was vying a contest but because the story would not let me sleep peacefully without its due rendition.
 
 I realised, if there is a story strong enough inside of you that needs to be told, then it must bleed on paper
 
 
 A month later, author   and TOI Write India director Vinita Dawra Nangia declared the results on Twitter live and the moment I read my name in the top ten, I almost jumped out of my chair in the office and danced around in childlike excitement! Someone in this whole wide world had found the story I’d written good enough a read! Hey no, wait! Good enough to rate it as one of the 
 ? My eyes welled with tears.
 
 Two months later, I was formally felicitated by the Write India team at The Times Lit Fest 2015 held at New Delhi by the invincible trio: author Amish Triptahi, Ravi Subramanian, and Ashwin Sanghi. Amidst a gathering of the elites of the writing world at the LitFest, the Write India team made me feel like a newly crowned star of some national reality show. They were warm, courteous, and extremely loving; so much that it almost felt like home. Who’d have known that the O-zone celebrity, Vinita Dawra Nangia, would become nothing short of a Fairy Godmother for us and her team of young girls, her little angels? From that day till our formal felicitation at St. Regis in Mumbai, they treated us like hand-picked babies who they’d mentor, train, and guide all the way through until we were ready to take our flight.
 
  
  
 
 In November 2016, the Write India mentoring workshop happened at the TOI office, Mumbai. What can I even say about it? From script writers like Manav Jhakhar to publishers like   of Readomania; from celebrity writers like   to India’s bestselling author Ravi Subramanian, we were getting to know the insider’s untold stories and struggles. There may be a hundred other contests going around in the industry claiming huge prize money at stake, but the one-to-one mentoring by TOI Write India is what brings out the writer in you, fearlessly ready to take on burns and bruises, for the road ahead may not be as sweet a bed of roses as we may presume it is. 
 
 Finally, in an evening star studded with bestselling authors, Ashwin Sanghi, Ravi Subramanian,  ,  ,  , Preeti Shenoy, Madhuri Banerjee, Jaishree Misra, Tuhin Sinha, and our gorgeous host Vinita, launched the yellow book of our dreams, our first publication titled ‘Write India Stories’. What followed next were a series of unstoppable congratulatory messages, media coverages, and signing of books for appreciative readers. The co-winners were no longer just talented fellow writers but part of one big family, who were ready to embark a journey together. The evening ended with fine wine and cheese, topped with a grand family dinner and breaking bread with our mentors and fellow-writers, as a mark of a dawn that would someday fathom to its earnest glory. 
 
 Back at home and six months later, it still feels like a dream. The Write India team never failed to make me feel special. They still call up, send texts, and persistently remind me to keep heading towards life’s true calling, which is to contribute to meaningful literature. 
 
 If there is anything that TOI Write India has given to me, it has culled out the zealot inside that reaffirms my belief in honest and fearless writing. 
 
 Write not because you can be read, write because you can be heard. That’s the power of storytelling! 
 
 
 
