NEW DELHI: Days after the   filed a case against   for alleged corruption and criminal conspiracy in facilitating FIPB approval to INX Media when his father P   was finance minister, agency sources claimed they had evidence to prove “quid pro quo” against him.

 Top agency sources claimed the investigation and documents in their possession showed that   was paid huge sums for his services, which included facilitating approval from the finance ministry for foreign direct investment into INX Media in 2007 and organising a reply through his company Chess Management Services (P) Ltd for INX when the ministry sought a clarification.
 
 CBI officials refused to divulge details of the evidence but sources said vouchers for payment of Rs 10 lakh to Chess Management by INX Media, a company run by Peter and Indrani Mukherjea at that time, were part of the “quid pro quo”.
 
 According to the CBI’s FIR, payment of Rs 3.50 crore was made by INX Media to Chess Management after the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval. Sources said they had found vouchers for more payments.
 
 When contacted, spokesperson for CBI, R K Gaur said, “Investigations are going on. We cannot share the details at this stage.” CBI sources said they had found documents linking Karti to both Chess Management and Advantage Strategic Consultancy Pvt Ltd (ASCPL), a company where his friends and associates were made directors to “conceal his identity”. TOI had reported last week that Karti was the “ultimate beneficiary” of ASCPL. In fact, ASCPL directors had bequeathed their wills in the name of Karti’s daughter Aditi.
 
 Sources said Karti’s email conversations with directors of these companies directly established the link. Some of the foreign companies involved in the transactions are also linked to ASCPL, according to documents in possession of the Central Bureau of Investigation.
 
 Officials said once all documents recovered during last week’s raids, taken from FIPB unit of finance ministry, income tax department and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are analysed, Karti will be called for questioning.
 
 On Karti’s visit to London, CBI sources said they were tracking details of his travel, which was “scheduled” in advance. “He has a return ticket. He should come back,” a CBI official said. As first reported by TOI, the CBI is probing four more matters of FIPB approval and dubious investments where Karti is allegedly a ‘common link’.
 
 On ASCPL, CBI sources said there were five directors in the company – Mohananan Rajesh, Ravi Vishwanathan, Chinna Bala Nageswar Reddy, Padma Bhaskararaman and a charatered accountant, S Bhaskararaman.
 
 Sources said Bhaskararaman ran the business on Karti’s instructions. In its FIR, the CBI said Karti influenced FIPB officials “by virtue of his relationship with the then Union finance minister (P Chidambaram)”. Chidambaram and Karti have denied all allegations.
 
 
