PATNA: The   on Wednesday issued an alert for dense fog conditions in north and south-west Bihar, including the state capital till Friday.

 Though the weathermen do not expect any major temperature variation, the fog cover is likely to cause a slight plunge in the mercury column. The minimum temperature in Patna, which was recorded at 10.1 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, is expected to hover in the range of 8 to 9 degrees Celsius till the end of this week.
 
 The expected foggy condition has been attributed to a western disturbance situated over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir, which is leading to moisture incursion in eastern parts of the country as well, including Bihar. Shallow fog cover was observed at many places in the state on Wednesday.
 
 “We have issued an alert for dense fog in north and south-west Bihar till January 20. The fog cover is expected to affect visibility in the morning hours, but clear skies are expected to be observed during the daytime,” said Patna meteorological centre’s  .
 
 Though the weathermen claimed that impact of the current western disturbance in the state would be over by January 20, another one expected around January 26 might bring back foggy weather in the state. “We are expecting a western disturbance to cause fresh snowfall in northern states, including Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, under the influence of the fresh western disturbance,” said Arpita.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea and the Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfall in the northwest Indian subcontinent.   stated on Monday that several parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh would continue to receive snowfall throughout January.
 
 Chilly westerly winds blowing from snowfall-laden northern states lead to sharp plunge in temperature in the   as well. In fact, the minimum temperature in Patna plunged even below five degrees Celsius last week due to cold westerly winds blowing from the hills of north India which received heavy snowfall for a few days.
 
