NEW DELHI: For students of  ,   still holds   75 years later. Just that the focus of the fight has shifted. The enemy now is gender discrimination in education, non-engagement of diverse political views and the death of dissent. 

 The college, on Wednesday, held an event to remember the movement and its relevance in contemporary times. LSR is one of the 50 higher institutions in the country chosen by MHRD to commemorate the   of Quit India Movement and 70 years of Independence. 
 
 “The idea was to create a sense of patriotism and nationalism in the students by connecting them with history, especially the movement,” said Kanika Ahuja, college spokesperson and associate professor of psychology. 
 
 The programme comprised exhibitions by political science department, fine arts club Hive and the B El Ed department; a round table conference with the students completing their course in elementary education and the faculty, a street play, and a rock concert by a fusion band Nasya.
 
 Anubhuti Kakati, president, political science department, said the exhibitions were to push students think and relate to contemporary political agendas. This was highlighted through a street play. 
 
 “The concept has been to highlight the struggles we still go through. The department holds several public meetings regularly, where the students get to engage with different political ideologies. While we were given a general brief by the college, the students conceptualised the play themselves,” she said. 
 
 The girls also engaged in an invigorating discussion about the education for women at grassroot-level. Several students pointed out that at an early age, girls are pushed into their gender roles, not just in the form of opportunities available, but also expectations in a social set up. “While I am allowed to pursue my interest, I am also expected to learn how to take care of family, which is not the same with my brother. Never have my parents differentiated in what is made available to us, but there is discrimination in the expectations,” said a third year B El Ed student.
 
