KOLKATA: Trinamool MLA Paresh Pal on Monday picked a fight with three GJM MLAs, who arrived in the city to vote for the presidential election, causing a major embarrassment to the ruling Trinamool.

 Though Pal hogged the limelight for a few minutes, it didn't seem to augur well for his political future as his party seniors subsequently subsequently had to apologise to the GJM MLAs on his behalf.
 
 Trouble broke out on the state assembly premises in the afternoon, when GJM MLAs  ,   and  , along with BJP state president  , queued up to cast their votes to elect the President. On spotting them, the Trinamool MLA from Beliaghata, who was way ahead of them in the queue, stepped out, and waved his finger at the GJM MLAs. “You have set the Hills on fire. Now you have come here to vote. Why have you all come here? Go back to Darjeeling. You want a separate state and have been maligning our government. Go back to the Hills and cast your vote there,“ Pal said.
 
 The outburst didn't go down well with the GJM MLAs as Amar Singh Rai yelled back: “Go, and say this over there (Hills). This is a sacred place and we have come here to perform our duty as legislators.“ As the altercation seemed to take a serious turn, BJP's Ghosh stepped in and urged the GJM MLAs to refrain from an argument. “It (Pal's comments) only shows the frustration of the Trinamool government and their MLAs. This is not the way to behave with an elected representative and that, too, inside the state assembly ,“ Ghosh said later.
 
 After cas After casting his vote, Amar Singh Rai told reporters that he found the Trinamool MLA 's behaviour “childish“.“Pal's intimidation is childish. It is our duty to cast our vote. We are aware of our responsibility. There is no need for anyone else to remind us of our duty . We are colleagues and there should be mutual respect for each other,“ he said.
 
 The GJM legislators are, however, not going to take up the matter with the  . “Some Trinamool members called us and they were apologetic. They told us they would hold an inquiry into the matter. So, we decided not to drag it further. Moreover, everybody saw what he did,“ Rai said. No Trinamool senior supported Pal. When asked if the party will act against him, a TMC leader said: “The party will take action if he is found in the wrong.“
 
 Cross-voting in prez polls: Dilip
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh claimed there was cross-voting in the presidential polls in the state. Speaking to the media on Monday, the BJP MLA from Kharagapur said: “There is no doubt that our candidate will win. There has been lots of cross-voting. It will be apparent when the results come out.“
 
 
