AURANGABAD: With the district administration declaring the programme for   chairman election on June 3,   Aghadi (SVA) corporator   — a front runner for the coveted post — is leaving no stone unturned to hold the position in the 16-member committee.

 Apart from him, two corporators from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Raj Wankhede and Rakhi Desarda are also eyeing the post. But since SVA corporator Kailash Gaikwad vacated his seat for Barwal to become a member of the committee, speculations are high that the ruling alliance would throw its weight behind Barwal.
 
 Sources told TOI that   have already decided to support Barwal. “The BJP-Sena alliance has nine members in the committee while the SVA has two members. The alliance has elected corporators in the committee. Thus, the possibility of Barwal becoming the standing committee is more, said the sources,” said the sources.
 
 “Till May 1, Sena corporator Mohan Meghawale was heading the committee, but as per the mutually agreed terms between the saffron allies, BJP candidate was supposed to take over the chairmanship. But after the SVA recently supported the saffron alliance in recent election of mayor, it is believed to get the chairmanship of the committee,” the sources added.
 
 After eight members recently retired from the committee, Rishi Khaire (Sena), Siddhant Shirsat (Sena), Raju Vaidya (Sena), Rupchand Waghmare (Sena), Swati Nagre (Sena), Desarda (BJP), Sayyad Matin (MIM) and Shaikh Nargees Saleem (MIM) became the new members of the committee. Apart from these members, Barwal (Independent) also became the member in place of Gaikwad.
 
 “The district administration has finalised the date for election and as per its instructions, we are preparing the election programme,” municipal secretary D D Suryawanshi said, adding that elections for the chairmen of five subject committees of the civic body will also be held on the occasions.
 
 District collector will be the presiding officer for the election to be held in the main administrative block of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation headquarters. 
 
