Mumbai:   has said that   has become a primary medium for individual customers with transactions through it, outstripping all other channels. The bank is now working at migrating customers not using smartphones onto   by getting rid of the complexity and using a simplified interface for m-banking without internet.

 “Around 66% of individual customer transactions are from   and over half of them are from the mobile. So in terms of number of transactions, mobile is already the pre-dominant channel,” said Rajeev Anand, executive director and head of retail at Axis Bank. As compared with digital transactions, 21% take place through   and 13% through branches.
 
 The latest service that the bank has come out with is ‘Axis Ok’, which uses the backbone of unstructured supplementary service data (USSD) and  . This allows customers with fund transfers, balance enquiry, phone or direct-to-home TV recharges and other transactions. “What we realised was that customers found the   experience too complex to grapple with. We have masked the complexity of the dialling and connecting using alpha-numeric characters and converted that into a simple app for which you do not need data. It is available in six languages and we will continue to add more,” said Anand.
 
 Although mobile transactions dominate, this is because of the frequent transactions made by the young metro and urban customers. “There are about 200 million people accessing data on their phones, but there is another set of customers (around 400 million) who have limited or no access to data. It is those customers we are looking to target,” said Anand.
 
 According to Anand, although mobile was becoming a dominant channel, the bank would continue to build on physical infrastructure with a view to providing an omni-channel access. Some things like savings account opening require presence at branches. But once these accounts are opened, around 30% of personal loans are originated digitally. Axis Bank therefore plans to open 400 more branches this year. At the same time, ATM transactions are back up to October levels.
 
 
