KOLHAPUR: The   (KHOA) — organisers of   — has decided to continue city tourism   after the festival gets over on January 31 with the help of district administration and the   (KMC).

 The Kolhapur tourism festival began on January 15 to promote tourism in the district and on the same day a city tourism bus service was started for tourist destinations across the city. As the bus service got good response, the association has decided to continue it even after festival.
 
 The Kolhapur city has various tourist destinations right from pilgrimage to historical monuments. The Mahalaxmi temple attracts more than 10,000 devotees every day.
 
 Speaking about the bus service, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) official Rahul Gavli said, “The devotees regularly ask about city tourism bus services on the line of Pune darshan. The tourists mostly visit the city on weekends. So, the bus service would play an important role in city tourism.”
 
 The president of KHOA Ujjwal Nageshkar said, “We have decided to continue the bus service even after the festival. The election code of conduct does not allow district administration to take this decision. We will resume talks with the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation once the election is over.”
 
 Siddharth Latkar, KHOA secretary, said, “We have decided to continue the service on weekends after the festival is over. We received good response to temporary bus service during the festival. More than 300 hundred people used the bus service in last fifteen days. At present we take tourists to Mahalaxmi temple, Khasbaug maidan, Town Hall, New Palace, Kaneri Math and Rankala Lake. Discussion with district administration and the KMC have halted due to code of conduct, but they have shown interest in continuation of this bus service.”
 
 Akshay Gole, a tourist, said, “The bus service on the line of other major cities could boost  . The city has a lot to offer but all these destinations should be covered in single trip at an affordable price.”
 
