PUNE: The   has held that police evidence on recovery of weapons at the instance of the accused cannot be rejected merely because of the seizure/panch witnesses turning hostile during the trial. 

 The court also held that forensic   found on the accused's seized clothes is an incriminating circumstance having a corroborative effect on the eye-witness' version.
 
 Justices VK Tahilramani and AM Badar, comprising the high court division bench, made the observations on January 10 while upholding the life sentence given to six persons by a Pune court on November 11, 2010 for murdering Shukrawar Peth resident Pradeep Ganpat Shinde (30) over an earlier enmity. The murder took place on October 8, 2007.
 
 Convicts Sameer More (25) of Ekta Nagari, Sinhgad Road, Ajit Ghanekar (23) of Nallasopara, Ganesh Mane (20), Nilesh Hiwale (22), Pravin Chorge (22) and Shailesh Dhage (22), all residents of Janata Vasahat, are serving their sentence at Yerawada jail.
 
 A majority of the 17 witnesses barring Pradeep's sister and sole eyewitness  , the police and medical officials turned hostile during the trial. Three seizure/panch witnesses in whose presence the police seized the  , were among the hostile witnesses. 
 
 In their plea, the six appellants argued that their conviction was entirely based on Kalyani's testimony and she was a chance witness interested in their conviction. Her evidence was not corroborated by others and the recoveries made by police, on the basis of their confessional statements, were not proved as the seizure/panch witnesses had turned hostile.
 
 The bench cited   rulings on evidence by sole eyewitness and stated, "The evidence of a chance witness can be accepted, provided the statement of such witness adequately explains his or her presence and such evidence stands test of caution and close scrutiny." It found Kalyani's testimony trustworthy, reliable and corroborated by other evidence in the case.
 
 On seizure of bloodstained weapons and clothes, the bench again cited Supreme Court rulings and observed, "It is an archaic notion that the actions of the police officer should be approached with initial distrust. The court cannot start with presumption that the police records are untrustworthy. As a proposition of law, the presumption should be other way round."
 
 "When a police officer gives evidence in court that a certain article was recovered by him on the strength of the statement made by the accused it is open to the court to believe the version to be correct if it is not otherwise shown to be unreliable. In the case in hand, we found that evidence of APIs Dnyanadeo Bhalsingh and Rajendra Vaibhandik and PI Nandkumar Suryawanshi to be fully trustworthy regarding seizure of clothes of appellants as well as recovery of weapons at their instance," the bench observed.
 
