LUCKNOW: A day after   patriarch   lambasted his son and SP chief   for humiliating him, cracks within the party got more noticeable as his uncle   and his camp on Sunday launched a scathing attack on the SP leadership holding it responsible for the party’s humiliating defeat in the assembly elections.

 “The new generation should not humiliate their elders, that too when authority and position is served to them on a platter by the elders,” Shivpal said speaking at a school function in Jaswantnagar—his assembly constituency—on Sunday. The former SP state chief said those who don’t respect their parents (read father) can never progress in life. The Prime Minister had said one who is not loyal to his father cannot be loyal to anyone and Akhilesh gave the opportunity to Modi to make such serious comments, he said. Earlier, Shivpal had stayed away from two important meetings of the party convened by Akhilesh at the party headquarters in Lucknow last week. 
 
 On Saturday, Mulayam had also quoted Modi saying that the PM was right when he made the comment. Mulayam said he felt insulted and humiliated by the manner in which he was dethroned from the post of SP chief by son Akhilesh. Meanwhile, Shivpal supporters in SP are getting vocal with their dissent against the leadership in general and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in particular. 
 
 Senior leader and known Mulayam and Shivpal loyalist Sudhir Singh on Sunday shot a two-page letter to the party chief elaborating on the reasons that led to the party’s humiliating defeat in the elections. The letter starts with with a terse “despite the humiliating defeat in the polls, neither the SP nor you have taken any lessons from what has happened in the elections”.
 
 The letter repeatedly highlights that Akhilesh is surrounded by a coterie of sycophants who could never afford a bicycle earlier but today roam around in BMWs. The hard-hitting letter says: “These sycophants made you believe that you will win the elections and you became arrogant and sidelined those who had given their sweat and blood to build the party.” 
 
 Sudhir, who was a special invitee member of the state executive in 2009 when Mulayam was at the helm of party affairs, stated in the letter that it was time for Akhilesh to give respect to elders and get rid of the caucus of “yes men” around him and reach out to the common party workers and the people of the state who are waiting for their leader to start his struggle again. 
 
 
