BENGALURU: One of the major concerns for authorities at the Lalbagh   that draws lakhs of visitors every year is  . Every time, the organizers have had to clear truckloads of garbage spread on lawns, food zones and on the famous   rock. 

 But this Republic Day flower show has seen a 70% decline in littering, thanks to more than two dozen volunteers from   (BB), a citizens’ initiative.
 
 The volunteers, in trademark green jackets, have been spreading the message of zero litter since the show began on January 20. “This is the third flower show that BB is associated with. We have seen some remarkable results as litter levels on lawns and roads are down by over 60-70%,” said Odette Katrak, anchor of BB.
 
 “We chose Lalbagh flower show for our litter-awareness programme mainly because of the huge footfall of 5 lakh visitors. Come to think of it, these could be the same people littering the city streets as well. We appeal to them to do their bit for a beautiful Bengaluru. Some don’t know that we shouldn’t dirty a place, and some don’t care. Our volunteers are sending a strong message of public responsibility – throw your waste only in a bin, and if you don’t see one, hang on to it,” Odette said.
 
 Aparna Ponnappa, a volunteer, said, “We are also pushing for an eco-friendly litter-free garden, with clear signage, bin and waste management. The plastic ban has been in force in the city for some time and this is the perfect opportunity to enforce it at Lalbagh too, with fines for littering, plastic use and violation of no-food zones, a new measure to curb litter across the premises. Sadly, fine is the only language many understand.”
 
 Volunteers said there is a definite shift this time, with some vendors using cloth bags and visitors carrying eco-friendly ones. BB placards in English, Kannada and Hindi also remind them to reduce littering.
 
 The flower show will conclude on Sunday. Those who wish to keep the botanical garden clean can register with BB by emailing to bebeautifulbengaluru@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
 Selfies may be restricted in several parts of Lalbagh this time. But Beautiful Bengaluru is harnessing the craze to keep the garden litter-free. A placard with a zero-garbage pledge on it has been installed near Lalbagh rock and visitors are being encouraged to take a selfie with the pledge in the backdrop. Organizers said 10,000 visitors have taken the pledge so far.
 
 
