CHENNAI: It is touted as the mother of all byelections, the outcome of which could change the political dynamics of Tamil Nadu post-Jayalalithaa. The RK Nagar bypoll result is expected to cause some churning in the state's politics, decide destinies and trigger realignments. With the stakes so high, no wonder candidates have jazzed up their roadshows with yesteryear stars, boat rides and bulls. 

 BJP's debutant contestant, music director Gangai Amaran, belts out songs from MGR movies to engage voters and chooses to take rides into the sea off Kasimedu in north Chennai. The O Panneerselvam-led faction recently dragged a bewildered bull around the constituency. There are drum-beating candidates, and MLA-campaigners who swing and gyrate to folk music to attract voters.
 
 With former chief minister J Jayalalithaa no more on the poll scene, and an ailing DMK chief M Karunanidhi distancing himself from politics, it is more of showmanship and less of serious discourse that mark the campaigns. There are fewer street corner meetings and public addresses, and more of theatrics. There are some party workers who entertain and bribe voters, rather than involve them in meaningful dialogues.
 
 Some byelections have made a difference. Most don't, said MGR biographer and political analyst R Kannan. The last time R K Nagar went to polls in a byelection in June 2015 the constituency was in a tizzy. The candidate then was Jayalalithaa. Today it is in the twilight zone. Voters are aware this election will make little difference to their harsh lives. "RK Nagar is in a state of ennui. Candidates are wracking their brains to attract voters and the desperation is both tragic and comical," said Kannan. 
 
 Old-timers recall how elections in the past were more about aims and ambitions of candidates, achievements and democratic rights. "In the 1960s, Periyar held a voters' conference ahead of an election to educate them on how worthy the candidates were, and if they would keep their promises. Today, it's not about democracy; it's about money," said Dravidian historian Sangoli Thirunavukkarasu.
 
 The bane of Tamil Nadu's politics - cash for vote - is in full play in RK Nagar. "Yet it remains unclear if voter participation would be significant. One thing is clear: candidates and parties in the future will be expected to deliver. Elections cannot be won by cash or silly showmanship," said Kannan.
 
