HYDERABAD: Telangana has the   related to  , according to the  's report on   (MCCD). The data, tabulated for 2014, reveals that the state lost as many as 96,982 lives to diseases of the circulatory system.This accounts for 57% of 1,70,145 medically registered deaths. This is highest in the country, where the national average is 32%. Andhra Pradesh stood slightly higher than the average at 32.7%.

 “Coronary artery disease remains the leading cause of heart attacks and deaths among middle and old-aged people. Circulatory arrest due to unstable blood pressure is another major reason,“ cardiologist Dr MSS Mukherjee said.Coronary artery disease is a condition where a waxy substance gets deposited in the arteries connected to the heart and block the supply of oxygenated blood.Almost 60% of the people suffering from this die of heart attacks, doctors say.
 
 Acute tear of the aorta (main artery of the body), medically termed aortic dissection, leads to death in a few cases. Additionally in Telangana, consumption of gudumba and water contaminated with fluoride also lead to heart ailments, said Dr Mukesh, former vice president of the Telangana chapter of Cardiology Society of India. “In the cities, air pollution is also a silent killer,“ he added.
 
 Several people live with pulmonary disease without the symptoms surfacing. In such cases, sudden heart attacks come as a complete surprise. “Prevention is the only cure here as the diseases are not symptomatic at times. It is high time that people make important lifestyle changes, exercise and go for regular medical check-ups,“ said Dr K Narasaraju, a cardiologist.
 
 The MCCD report, released this week, gave data for percentage of deaths due to other diseases as well. Telangana stood second with 13% deaths due to parasitic infections.
 
 States and union territories were also ranked on the basis of percentage of medically certified deaths out of the total registered deaths. Telangana stood at a low 18th rank with only 19.5% deaths being certified. Goa stood first in this aspect with 99.5%.
 
