Chennai: If you have plans to reach the airport from Kilpauk, or Anna Nagar, and dread the peak-hour traffic that the 100 Feet Road is notorious for, then try metrorail. 

 Metrorail has resumed direct train services to the airport from Sunday. With the launch of the underground line, there will be a train every 30 minutes to shuttle passengers across two corridors from Nehru Park and Airport covering a distance of 23km in 60 minutes. “Every alternate train from Nehru Park will go to the airport. Residents from localities around the line will benefit,” an official said.
 
 Metrorail has earlier operated direct services between Koyambedu and airport for five months starting November 2016 on trial basis owing to popular demand. The service, which covered 15km in about 40 minutes and ran every hour, was stopped from April 15 due to maintenance. A notice was put up at the Koyambedu metro station to inform passengers on the cancellation of the service but it did not mention whether, or when, the service will be restored.
 
 While station staff said the service was stopped due to low patronage, officials said the direct services were cancelled to use one of the two tracks to conduct trial runs for the underground line. The line between Nehru Park and Thirumangalam was linked to the elevated corridor through a ramp between Thirumangalam and Koyambedu.
 
 With the service back in the metrorail’s timetable, trains from Nehru Park will take a crossover to switch tunnels at Shenoy Nagar and proceed towards Koyambedu to reach the elevated corridor. After it reaches the Alandur metro hub, the train will take the loop line at the station to proceed towards airport metro station. Passengers could either take the direct services or switch corridors through escalators and elevators at Alandur.
 
 Officials said operating direct services between two corridors of phase-1 was never a part of the initial plan. “No other metro rail facility in the world has direct service connecting two corridors,” an official had told TOI earlier. The service, according to the official, would affect the frequency of other trains running on the two lines. The train on the direct service also has to slow down when it switches corridors through the loop lines. As a result, the approaching train has to be stopped when the loop lines are being used.
 
 
