HYDERABAD: "Fashion designing is a heritage for us in India. Indian fashion industry need not match up to any industry. We are special. World is inspired by our crafts, fabric, embroidery, heritage. What we need is just 'Professionalism,' said fashion designer-turned-stylist-actor-author,  . 

 She was speaking at the first meeting of the Young FICCI Ladies Organisation (YFLO) for 2017-2018. As many as 150 plus YFLO members participated in the event organised at Hotel Park Hyatt Hyderabad. Qureshi is a Pakistani-born Indian who designs costumes for several   Stars. 
 
 Interacting with media prior to the session, Qureshi said  ,  , Omer Abdullah and   are among the best dressed politicians in India. 
 
 Speaking about her Hyderabad connection, she said "My connection to Hyderabad is through Kuchipudi dance. I'm a trained Kuchipudi dancer; I love to dance. I learned to dance from renowned dance couple Raja-Radha Reddy, who belong to this place", Qureshi, informed.
 
 She offered tips on how to dress. Explaining various body types, she said apple frame, hourglass, pear shaped, petite and inverted triangle apple frame are different typical Indian body types, she said. Such women should choose clothes which cover their middle part of the body.   is a classic example for such a body type, she explained. Hourglass is the beautiful body type, she added. Everyone in the Bollywood have this bodytype. Petite is a rare body type in India. It is a tricky body type, she observed.   is a classic example for inverted triangle body. This body type people have broad shoulders, she explained. Among men   has inverted triangle body. All the athletes have this body type. 
 
 Saree is a good garment for any type of the body. You need to drape it well, she added. Saree is the versatile garment works well with every body type and shape, she reiterated. 
 
 YFLO is a unique platform for young women from diverse professional and entrepreneurial backgrounds to interact with each other, learn, explore new avenues and launch their ideas in a supportive and nurturing environment, said Sandhya Raju, the Chairperson of YFLO Hyderabad, while welcoming the gathering. The fashion designer diva of Hyderabad, Anushree Reddy moderated the session.
 
 
  
 
