Mumbai/New Delhi: Investor-cum-entrepreneur Abhay Soi-led  , which has donned the role of a consolidator in the country’s fragmented healthcare services sector, has submitted an expression of interest to acquire   valued at around Rs 1,000 crore, people with direct knowledge of the matter said. 

 The beleaguered Subrata Roy-controlled Sahara Group has mandated   to run a sale process for the flagship Lucknow hospital, along with land banks, and permission for expansion, as they mop up cash from sale of assets to deposit investor refunds with   as directed by the  .
 
 “We are looking at both outright sale as well partnerships,” sources close to Sahara said. The Lucknow hospital, built on 27 acres, has 350 operational beds, which can be scaled up to 550. The hospital is a venture of Sahara India Medical Institute, a subsidiary of Sahara Prime City. The company also has a huge land bank for future expansion, which could be used for expanding into Bihar, Jharkhand, rest of UP and adjoining areas. Sources said Sahara hospital has permission to set up centres in Gorakhpur and Ranchi. The bidders are unlikely to match up to Sahara’s valuation expectations, and are unlikely to be interested in all the assets, including land banks.
 
 Radiant, which took over management control of iconic hospitals like   in Delhi and   in Mumbai, may be vying with other potential bidders like   and Baron Khaleed Hameed of UK — who hails from Lucknow.
 
 Radiant is currently in discussions to raise at least Rs 1,000 crore from private equity giants   and Evertsone Capital to fuel its acquisition drive. KKR, one of the biggest global long-term risk investors, has extended Rs 550 crore financing support to Radiant, which is currently doubling the bed counts in its two hospitals to over 2,000. Radiant has been in talks with multiple stand-alone hospitals in top metros for acquisitions, as investors — who backed doctor turned entrepreneurs — try to unwind exposure triggering consolidation moves.
 
  Sahara Group and Radiant Life Care declined to comment. Last month, the apex court had asked Sahara to deposit Rs 5,092 crore towards repayment of Rs 14,000 crore outstanding amount to keep its chief   out of the jail.
 
 India’s healthcare industry is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 13%, hitting Rs 6.85 lakh crore by 2020, on the back of improving healthcare affordability, changing disease patterns, greater health awareness and rising insurance coverage.
 
 The country has 1.3 million hospital beds, translating into nine beds per 10,000 people, which is well below WHO standards. The Indian government runs 6.5 lakh beds, nursing homes and neighbourhood clinics managing 4.2 lakh beds, while 1.8 lakh beds are with stand-alone private hospitals. The country’s top hospital chains own only 60,000 beds, leaving the industry ripe for consolidation.
 
 
